OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
HELVERING,

COMMISSIONER

REVENUE, v. CARTER

ET AL.

OF INTERNAL
ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

v. GLENN, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
R. C. TWAY COAL CO. ET AL. V. CLARK.

R. C. TWAY COAL CO.

CERTIORARI TO THE

ET AL.

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

SIXTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 636, 651, 649, and 650. Argued March 11, 12, 1936.-Decided
May 18, 1936.
1. A stockholder may maintain a bill to enjoin the corporation and
its directors from submitting to legislative exactions and regulations which are unconstitutional and would seriously injure the
business of the corporation. P. 286.
2. Where irreparable injury from unconstitutional legislation is certain and imminent, suit for an injunction need not be deferred until
injury has been actually inflicted. P. 287.
3. The "Bituminous Coal Conservation Act of 1935" declares, with
specifications, that the mining and distribution of such coal are
so affected with a national public interest and so related to the
general welfare that the industry should be regulated. It recites
further, with details, that such regulation is necessary because
interstate commerce is directly and detrimentally affected by the
state of the industry and its practices, and that the right of the
miners to organize and collectively bargain for wages, hours of
labor and working conditions should be guaranteed in order to
prevent constant wage-cutting and disparate labor costs, detrimental to fair interstate commerce, and in order to prevent the
obstructions to that commerce that arise from disputes over labor
relations at the mines. The Act thereupon provides an elaborate
scheme for the creation of a national commission, the organization of numerous coal districts, the setting up of numerous boards
in the districts, and the fixing of all prices for bituminous coal,
and of the wages, hours and working conditions of the miners,
throughout the country. Held:

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Syllabus.

(1) That a so-called excise tax, imposed by the Act, of 15% of
the sale price or market value at the mine of all bituminous coal
produced in the country, subject to a draw-back of 131/2% allowed to those producers who submit to the price-fixing and labor
provisions of the Act, is not a tax but a penalty to coerce submission, and cannot be upheld as an expression of the taxing power.
P. 288.
(2) The provisions of the Act looking to the control of the wages,
hours, and working conditions of the miners engaged in the production of coal, and seeking to guarantee their right of collective
bargaining in these matters, are beyond the powers of Congress,
because(a) The Constitution. grants to Congress no general power to
regulate for the promotion of the general welfare. P. 289.
(b) The power expressly granted Congress to regulate interstate commerce does not include the power to control the conditions in which coal is -produced before it becomes an article
of commerce. P. 297.
(c) The effect on interstate commerce in the coal of labor conditions involved in its production, including disputes and strikes
over wages, etc., is an indirect effect. P. 307.
(3) Since a mine-owner, by refusing to accept the regulatory
provisions, would incur a prohibitive tax and be deprived, by
other provisions of the Act, of the right to sell coal to the United
States or to any of its contractors for use in performing their contracts, the regulations are in fact compulsory. In view of this
compulsion, provisions of the Act seeking to authorize part of the
producers and miners to fix hours for the entire industry, and
part of the producers and miners in the districts to fix minimum
wages in their districts, are legislative delegation in its most obnoxious form, and clearly violate the Fifth Amendment. P. 310.
(4) The price-fixing provisions are not separable from the provisions concerning labor and therefore cannot stand independently.
They are so related to and dependent upon the labor provisions,
as conditions, considerations or compensations, as to make it
clearly probable that, the latter being held bad, the former would
not have been passed. P. 312.
(5) The constitutionality of the price-fixing provisions is not
considered. P. 316.
4. Whether the end sought to be attained by an Act of Congress
is legitimate is wholly a matter of constitutional power and not

240

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

298 U.S.

at all of legislative discretion. Beneficent aims, however great
or well-directed, can never serve in lieu of power. P. 290.
5. To a constitutional end many ways are open; but to an end not
within the terms of the Constitution, all ways are closed' P. 291.
6. The proposition, often advanced and as often discredited, that
the power of the federal government inherently extends to all purposes affecting the Nation as a whole with which the States severally cannot deal, or deal adequately, and the related notion that
Congress, entirely apart from those powers delegated by the Constitution, may enact laws to promote the general welfare, have
always been definitely rejected by this Court. P. 291.
7. Those who framed and those who adopted the Constitution meant
to carve from the general mass of legislative powers, then possessed
by the States, only such portions as it was thought wise to confer
upon the federal government; and in order that there should be no
uncertainty as to what was taken and what was left, the national
powers of legislation were not aggregated but enumerated-with
the result that what was not embraced by the enumeration remained vested in the States without change or impairment.
P. 294.
8. The States, in respect of all powers reserved to them, are supreme.
And since every addition to the national legislative power to some
extent detracts from or invades the power of the States, it is of
vital moment that, in order to preserve the fixed balance intended
by the Constitution, the powers of the general government be
not so extended as to embrace any not within the express terms
of the several grants or the implications necessarily to be drawn
therefrom. P. 294.
9. The general government possesses no inherent power over the
internal affairs of the States; and emphatically not with regard to
legislation. P. 295.
10. The determination of the Framers Convention and the ratifying
conventions to preserve complete and unimpaired state self-government in all matters not committed to the national government, is one of the plainest facts in the history of their deliberations. Adherence to that determination is incumbent equally upon
the federal government and the States. State powers can neither
be appropriated 'on the one hand nor abdicated on the other.
P. 295.
11. If the federal government once begins taking over the powers
of the States, the States may be so despoiled of their powers, orwhat may amount to the same thing-be so relieved of the respon-

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.

241

Syllabus.

238

sibilities which the possession of the powers necessarily enjoins, as
to reduce them to little more than geographical divisions of the
national domain. P. 295.
12. The Constitution is a law-the supreme law of the land. Judicial
tribunals are required to apply the law to the facts in every case
properly brought before them; and in so doing, they are bound
to give effect to this supreme law as against any mere statute conflicting with it. 'P. 296.
13. In the discharge of that duty, the opinion of the law-makers
that a statute passed by them is valid must be given great weight;
but their opinion, or the court's opinion, that the statute will
prove greatly or generally beneficial, is wholly irrelevant to the
inquiry. P. 297.
14. As used in the commerce clause of the Constitution, the term
"commerce" is the equivalent of intercourse for the purposes of
trade, and includes transportation, purchase, sale and exchange of
commodities between citizens of the different States. The power
to regulate commerce embraces the instruments by which commerce is carried on. P. 297.
15. Production and manufacture of commodities are not commerce,
even when done with intent to sell or transport the commodities
out of the State. P. 299.
16. The possibility or even certainty of the exportation of a product
or an article from a State does not put it in interstate commerce
before it has begun to move from the State. To hold otherwise
would be to nationalize all industries. P. 301.
17. One who produces or manufactures a commodity, subsequently
sold and shipped by him in interstate commerce, whether such sale
and shipment were originally intended or not, has engaged in two
distinct and separate activities. So far as he produces or manufactures it, his business is purely local. So far as he sells or ships
it, or contracts to do so, to customers in another State, he engages in
interstate commerce. In respect of the. former, he is subject to
regulation by the State; in respect of the latter, to regulation only
by the federal government. Production is not commerce, but a
step in preparation for commerce. P. 303.
18. The incidents leading up to and culminating in the mining of
coal--the employment of men, the fixing of their wages, hours of
labor and working conditions, the bargaining in respect of these
things-each and all constitute intercourse for the purposes of
production, not of trade. Commerce in the coal is not brought into
65773 -36-----16

242

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Statement of the Case.

298 U.S.

'being by force of these purely local activities, but by negotiations,
agreements and circumstances entirely apart from production.
Mining brings the subject matter of commerce into existence; commerce disposes of it. P. 303.
19. To say that an activity or condition has a "direct" effect upon
commerce, implies that it operates proximately-not mediately, remotely, or collaterally-to produce the effect, without the presence
of any efficient intervening agency or condition. P. 307.
20. The distinction between a direct and an indirect effect upon
interstate commerce is independent of the magnitude of the effect
or of its cause. 'P. 308.
21. The evils which come to interstate commerce from struggles between employer and employees over the matter of wages, working
conditions, the right of collective bargaining, etc., and the resulting
strikes, curtailment and irregularity of production and effect on
prices, however extensive such evils may be, affect interstate commerce in a secondary and indirect way; they are local evils over
'vhiclr the federal government has no legislative control. P. 308.
22. The want of power in the federal government is the same whether
the wages, hours of service, and working conditions and the bargaining about them, are related to production before interstate
commerce has begun, or to sale and distribution after it has ended.
Schechter Poultry Corp. v. United States, 295 U. S. 495. P. 309.
23. A declaration in a statute that invalidity of any of its provisions
shall not affect the others, reverses the presumption of inseparability, but it does not alter the rule that if one of two mutually
dependent parts be unconstitutional, the other cannot be upheld.
P. 312.
63 Washington Law Rep. 986, affirmed inl part and reversed in part.
12 F. Supp. 570, reversed.

NUMBERS 636 and 651 were cross writs of certiorari,
296 U. S. 571, removing a case from the United States
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, which
had reached that court by appeal from the Supreme Court
of the District, but which the upper court had not heard.
It was a suit by Carter, stockholder and president of the
Carter Coal Company, to enjoin the corporation, its
officers and directors, from filing an acceptance of a code
formulated under the Bituminous Coal Conservation Act

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Oral Argument of Mr. Wood.

of 1935, and from paying the tax imposed by the Act.
The Commissioner of Internal Revenue, a Collector of
Internal Revenue, the Attorney General, and the United
States Attorney for the District of Columbia, were joined
as defendants, the bill praying that they be restrained
from attempting to enforce the tax. The trial court
found that the labor provisions of the Act and Code were
unconstitutional, but that the price-fixing provisions were
valid and were separable from the labor provisions. It
therefore denied relief, except for granting a permanent
injunction against collection of taxes accrued during the
suit.
The other two cases (Nos. 649 and 650) were removed
to this Court by certiorari, 296 U. S. 571, 572, from the
Circuit Court of Appeals where they were pending on
appeal from decrees of a District Court in Kentucky.
One was a suit by several coal companies against a Collector, to enjoin him from collecting the taxes sought to
be imposed by the Act mentioned above. The other was
a suit brought by a stockholder against his corporation
and some of its officers, to compel acceptance of the Act
and Code, by mandatory injunction. In these cases, the
District Court found the Act valid in its entirety, and
decreed accordingly.
Summary of oral argument of Mr. Frederick H. Wood
in behalf of Mr. James Walter Carter, petitioner in No.
636 and respondent in No. 651.
In view of the Government's concession that the taxing
provisions may not stand unless the regulatory provisions are valid, the constitutional questions presented
are, first, whether the Act is within the power of the
Federal Government to regulate commerce, and, second,
whether it is violative of the due process clause of the
Fifth Amendment.
It is petitioner's position that the Act is not one to
regulate interstate commerce but is an attempt, under

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Oral Argument of Mr. Wood.

298 U.S.

the guise of an assertion of the commerce power, to
regulate the productive industry of bituminous coal mining, and that it is unconstitutional and void whether considered as a whole or considered in respect of its several
regulatory provisions.
The wages, hours and labor relations provisions of the
Act apply to all producers of coal whether or not it ever
moves in interstate commerce. They also apply in respect of the production of "captive" coal by steel companies, industrial plants and railway companies who mine
coal for their own use and who are not engaged in commerce in coal in any sense, either state or interstate. In
any case these labor provisions are not regulations of
interstate commerce but are regulations of the intrastate
activity of production, and constitute a regulation of
productive industry and not of interstate commerce, as
was settled by this Court in the Schechter case, 295
U. S. 495.
The Government seeks to distinguish the Schechter
case upon fi-ve grounds, none of which is tenable. It is
first said that the defendants in the Schechter case were
engaged in a strictly local activity, since interstate commerce had ceased in the articles in respect of which the
labor sought to be regulated was performed. But no
amount of argument can convert a regulation of production preceding interstate commerce in the articles produced into a regulation of interstate commerce. The decision in the Schechter case, while relating to a regulation
of production occurring after interstate commerce had
ceased, was not predicated upon this narrow ground, as
is shown by the prior decisions of this Court cited and
relied on in the Schechter opinion, holding that the production of articles intended for subsequent movement
in interstate commerce is not subject to regulation by
the Federal Government. These prior cases, reaffirmed
in the Schechter decision, specifically included cases

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Oral Argument of Mr. Wood.

involving the mining of coal as well as other productive
operations.
It is next urged that wages affect cost and that cost
controls price, and hence that wages are subject to federal regulation. The same argument was pressed upon
this Court in the Schechter case and was rejected; and it
is no distinction to urge in this case, as the Government
does, that wages in bituminous coal mining represent
60% to 65% of the mining cost and hence that they
are the governing factor in the determination of price.
As appears from the opinion of this Court in the Schechter case, precisely the same argument was urged there,
it being shown that labor costs in the live poultry
slaughtering business also constituted 60% to 65% of the
total cost of operating slaughter-houses. The argument
based upon the relation of wages to cost, and of cost to
price, and of price to interstate commerce, as this Court
said in the Schechter case, proves too much and, if
accepted, would have the result that all the activities of
the people and all of the authority of the States over
their domestic concerns would exist only by sufferance of
the Federal Government.
Thirdly, it is urged that wages in the bituminous coal
industry are sui generis, since they represent a greater
proportion of costs than in any other industry. This
argument ignores the fact that the test of constitutional
power under the commerce clause in relation to intrastate activity is not whether the effect of that activity
upon interstate commerce is substantial, but whether it
is direct. To accept the, Government's contention would
potentially subject all matters which affect interstate
commerce to federal regulation, resulting in the erection
of a centralized government of unlimited authority not
contemplated by the Constitution.
Fourthly, it is contended that wage-cutting has been
the principal factor in price-cutting and hence may be

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Oral Argument of Mr. Wood.

298 U.S.

prevented and controlled by federal authority, since pricecutting results in the diversion of business from one mine
or district to another. The same argument was pressed
upon the Court in the Schechter case in a vivid recital by
Mr. Ricberg of the downward spiral of wages and prices
composed of successive wage-cuts and price-cuts until
industry had become prostrate. This argument the Court
in the Schechter case rejected, and properly so, since it
is no part of the authority or duty of the Federal Government to prevent the diversion of business from one producer to another, or from one State to another, under the
free play of competition, or to determine where or in
what amount any man or any State shall sell his or its
production, either absolutely or in relation to others.
Fifthly and finally, it is urged that'wages may be subjected to federal control in order to put an end to socalled unfair competition among coal producers and
among producing States resulting from wage-cutting as
translated into price-cutting; because, it is said, the States
are powerless to establish uniform or properly related
wage scales and hence the Federal Government is empowered to do so. This is but the timeworn and threadbare argument that the Federal Government is empoweied to legislate as to all matters in which uniformity is
deemed desiable in the interest of the general welfare
of the nation as a whole, and that in such circumstances
the' Congress may, under the pretext" of the commerce
clause, provide for such uniformity. This argument was
rejected by this Court in McCulloch v. Maryland, demolished in Kansas v. Colorado, and repudiated in the
Schechter case.
The wage and hour provisions empower stated percentages of operators and miners to fix the wages and hours
of other operators and miners at any level they see fit
and regardless of the wishes of those bound thereby.
No adequate reason has been advanced in support of the

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Oral Argument of Mr. Wood.

conclusion that power may be delegated to non-official
bodies without any standard to guide and control and
limit their action, although, by confession, a similar grant
of power to a public official or commission would be
unconstitutional.
The collective bargaining provisions are likewise beyond the authority of the Congress under the commerce
clause. This is so for the reason that collective bargaining requirements of the statute are also a regulation of
productive industry and not a regulation of interstate
commerce, and are even more remotely connected with
interstate commerce and more indirect in their effect
thereon than the attempted regulation of wages and
hours of miners. The argument that the collective bargaining provisions may be imposed in order to prevent
strikes and consequent interruptions of interstate commerce is but a' repetition of the same argument urged
in support of the NRA regulations in the Schechter case.
Were the argument one of first impression, it would have
to be rejected because of the indirect effect upon interstate commerce of the matters to be regulated and because
the power asserted is an invasion of the powers reserved
to the people or to the States by the Tenth Amendment.
But the matter is not one of first impression, since in the
first Coronado case, 259 U. S. .344, and in other cases, the
Court has held that the prevention of production through
labor disputes, with consequent interruption of interstate
commerce in the articles produced, is not within the AntiT;ust Acts unless the interruption is accompanied by a
direct and positive intent to interfere with and obstruct
interstate commerce; and in the Schechter case, 295 U. S.
495, the Court pointed out the reasons why this requirement of direct intent is not merely a statutory requirement but is equally expressive of constitutional limitations upon the authority of the Federal Government.
The code contains provisions for the fixing of minimum
and maximum prices, but due to the conditions of over

248

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
.Oral Argument of Mr. Wood.

298 U.S.

capacity and over production in the industry, the minimum prices fixed will for all practical purposes also be
theimaximum prices. The price-fixing provisions apply
to all coal sold whether ever moving across state' lines
or not; and the statute thereby seeks to fix the prices
of purely local sales which, as shown by the record,
constitute ,at least 42% of all bituminous coal sold.
The statute states that prices are to be fixed "in order
to extend the stabilization of wages, working conditions
and maximum hours of labor," thus linking the provisions
inseparably with the wage and hour provisions. The
District Boards are given an uncontrolled authority to
classify coals and to make price variations as between
mine and mine and as between consuming areas such
as they "may deem necessary and proper." The unbounded magnitude of the power thus conferred upon
.these agencies is made manifest by the fact that under
the ;National Industrial Recovery Act there were over
27,000 various sizes, varieties and prices of bituminous
coal within minimum price area No. 1, which comprises
the gre.at majority of the producing States and all of the
largest producing States, such as Pennsylvania, Ohio,
Illinois' West Virginia and Kentucky.
The provision for coordination of prices, without any
defiriite standard to govern the co6rdination, amounts in
fsct to a power and duty to allocate production as betweon States and producing areas, and therefore the
riecessary effect and intended purpose of the co6rdination
proVisiohs of the minimum price fixing formula are to
control and allocate the competitive situation of northern
miries of Pennsylvania, Ohio and Illinois in common consuining markets, as against the southern mines in West
Virginia, Kentucky and other States.
The Government asserts that power exists in the Congress to regulate the prices at which bituminous coal may
be sold solely because after sale the coal moves across

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Oral Argument of Mr. Wood.

state lines. If on this account Congress may fix or regulate the price of coal, it may fix the prices of every other
article of common use; for substantially all of them are
sold for transportation across state lines. But the Government does not stop there; it contends that it must also
have the power to regulate the prices at which all articles of common use may be sold even though they are
sold in purely local transactions, without any interstate
transportation being contemplated or ever in fact resulting,-the argument being that in order to prevent discriminations arising against the interstate seller through
the federal price regulation the Government must have
the power likewise to control the price of purely local
sales. The Government thereby seeks to destroy the
economic system under which we have lived, developed
and prospered for 150 years, and under which each citizen of this country, under the protection of constitutional
guarantees, has exercised the right to live where he
pleases, to work at what he pleases, to produce what he
pleases and to buy and sell what and where he pleases,
from whom or to whom he pleases, and at prices satisfactory to himself.
The power to fix prices, as this Court has said in
the Trenton Potteries case, 273 U. S. 392, "involves the
power to control the market," and this in turn involves
the power to control production and to limit, allocate or
destroy it. The power to control production in turn
involves control not only over industry bjut over population as well; for population will naturally follow productive opportunity. The power to control the prices at
which articles of common use may be sold in interstate
commerce, therefore, carries with it the power to control
the economic life of the Nation and hence of each of
the several States. The question is not whether the
power will be wisely or unwisely exercised, or whether the
present statute would be wisely or unwisely adminis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Oral Argument of Mr. Wood.

298 U.S.

tered; the question is whether the power exists. If the
Constitution had conferred upon the Congress the power
to regulate for the general welfare, the question would
be different; but the grant of such a power or its equivalent was four times voted down in the Constitutional
Convention. The question presented is whether such
power is comprised within the grant to thQ Congress of
power "to regulate commerce among the several States."
The Federal Government has exercised the most complete control over the instrumentalities of interstate commerce, as for example, the railroads; and it has kept com-.
merce free from artificial restraints and barriers imposed
upon it by others, through legislation in the form of
Anti-trust laws and by the decisions of this Court invalidating state statutes imposing such barriers and restraints. This is the first time in the 150 years of our
history that it has been seriously suggested that the
Congress is possessed of the power to impose a ,restraint
or barrier of its own upon the free movement of interstate commerce by limiting prices at which all articles of
common use may be sold. While the novelty of the proposal is not of itself sufficient ground for denying the
power asserted, nevertheless the enormous consequences
of the power claimed call for the most searching inquiry
into the Constitution itself and into the intention of
the framers and of -the States and of the people at the
time of its adoption, as well as into the history of the
commerce clause as exemplified in the decisions of. this
Court construing it during the past 150 years, in order
to ascertain whether a power of such consequence, carrying with it the pov~er of complete control over the economic life of the people and of the States, lies submerged
in the simple grant "to regulate commerce among the
several States." We think it does not.
Numerous decisions of this Court have stated that the
federal power overinterstate commerce is narrower than

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Oral Argument of Mr. Wood.

that over foreign commerce, and that while the Federal
Government has complete power absolutely to prohibit
the importation of commodities into the United States
from foreign countries, it has no power to prohibit the
movement of commodities from one State to another.
This is because the framers intended this distinction between the powers. Even without these authoritative
rulings of this Court, it is iftithinkable that anyone would
suggest that Congress could prohibit the movement of
coal, cotton, corn, wheat, oil, cotton cloth, or boots and
shoes, among the several States under the power to regulate interstate commerce. Consistently with the purpose
of the commerce clause and the history of the purpose
for which that power was conferred upon the Congress,
it cannot be contended that that power was intended
to authorize the Congress to limit the quantity of these
ordinary and useful articles which can be transported
across state lines, and thereby limit the quantity which
may be produced in any given State, by limiting the prices
to be received therefor, both absolutely, and in relation
to the prices in competing States of production. The
Constitution must be construed as a whole, and each
clause given a scope and effect consistent with the provisions of that instrument as a whole. The underlying
principle of the Constitution is duality of government.
Each of the thirteen colonies was jealous of each other,
and equally fearful of the establishment of a strong
centralized government with power to encroach upon the
rights of the States and of the people. The Constitutional Convention disclosed the liveliest apprehensions
as to the effect of possible combinations of States against
other States in the Federal Congress. The insistence of
.the framers of the Constitution upon the maintenance of.
the principle of duality of government, which preserves
not merely the political existence but the economic existence and rights of the several States, completely negatives

252

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Oral A.wument of Mr. Wood.

298 U.S.

any suggestion that the commerce clause was intended
to confer upon the Federal Government the power to
control the essential economic activities of the States and
of the people through determination of the prices at
which they might sell what they produced.
Although the case now before the Court is to be considered in the light of our whole experience, and not
merely in that of what was said 150 years ago, the scope
of the power intended to be conferred must be determined
with regard to the conditions which gave rise to the adoption of the Constitution, and great weight is to be attached to contemporaneous exposition and interpretation.
Considered from the historical standpoint, it is entirely
clear that the power now asserted was not intended to be
granted by the commerce clause. At the time of the
adoption of the Constitution navigation was the chief
agency of commerce, and among the purposes of the
founders was to subject that instrumentality of commerce to federal control. All that the Congress has since
done in the regulation of more modern systems of transportation may fairly relate to that purpose, that is, the
regulation of instrumentalities of interstate commerce.
But the clause had another purpose, which was to keep
commerce among the States free from artificial barriers
and restraints which the States prior to the adoption of
the Constitution had placed upon it by the erection of
impost duties and other regulations. These barriers were
among the chief causes leading to the formation of the
Federal Union and the adoption of the Constitution. It
is impossible to conclude that the clause had another
purpose not consistent with this last one, i. e. to permit
the Federal Government to place restrictions upon interstate commerce through price control of the same type
which it was the purpose of the commerce clause to
prevent the several States from imposing upon it.

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Oral Argument of Mr. Wood.

The jealousy with which the States in the formation
of the Constitution sought to protect their right to sell
their products beyond their own borders, free from interference by the central government, is brought out by the
adoption of the provision in the Constitution forbidding
the United States to lay any duty or tax upon exports
from any State. At the time of the adoption of the Cntistitution the important trade of the States was foreign
commerce; and while, as we have seen, the foreign commerce power conferred upon the Congress includes the
power absolutely to prohibit importations into this country, the staple States, that is, the producing States, in the
Constitutional Convention refused to permit the federal
power over foreign commerce to extend to the placing of
any barrier upon their right to export their products.
The power to control the export of articles from the States
was refused the Federal Government upon the express
ground that the States feared a control over their productive activities.
The meaning of the interstate commerce clause is further made clear when it is considered that express provisions offered in the Constitutional Convention in place
of the interstate commerce grant, in language unquestionably broad enough to have included the price-fixing power
now claimed, were repeatedly rejected by the Convention.
I refer to proposals repeatedly made in the Convention
to give the Federal Government the power to negative
state action when opposed to the general good, and to
confer upon the Federal Government the power to legislate upon all matters in respect of which the States acting
separately were incompetent to act.
When the Constitution was presented to the States
for adoption, the friends of that instrument found it
necessary to allay the fears of the States and of the people
that provision had been made for a centralized govern-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Oral Argument of Mr. Wood.

298 U.S.

ment which would control their economic existence;
and it was for the purpose of allaying those fears that
the States and the people were told in the Federalist
papers that the very clause under which the Government
in this case claims the power to prevent the free flow of
commodities across state lines would have precisely the
opposite effect and would provide "an unrestrained intercourse between the states themselves . . and free
circulation of commodities of every part."
The purpose of the present statute, as shown by its
title, by its legislative history, by its recitals, by its substantive provisions, and by the factual background upon
which it is attempted to be supported on the present
record, is not to free interstate commerce in bituminous
coal from artificial restraints or burdens but, on the contrary, to impose Federal burdens and restrictions upon
such interstate commerce, to improve the economic wellbeing of persons engaged in the bituminous coal industry,
or some of them, whether owners or workers, by the regulation of wages, the restriction of competition and the
allocation of production to the several States through the
establishment of cordinated prices. The purpose is to
control cost and prices in order that the ability of the
States and producing areas and of the peisons engaged
in the industry, competing with each other in the sale
of coal in common consuming market areas, will be determined by federal agencies, to the end that those engaged
in the industry, whether workers or producers, will obtain
a larger share of the national income than they have
hitherto enjoyed.
The power claimed cannot be limited to the coal industry. Coal is no more a national necessity than wheat,
corn, cattle, iron and its products, salt, oil, clothing and
many other articles that could be named. As in regard
to coal, the predominant production of each of those is
confined within a few States, while their consumption is

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Oral Argument of Mr. Dickinson.

nation wide. If the argument advanced in support of
the present statute be accepted, planned economy and
complete paternalism in respect of all our economic activities await only an Act or a series of Acts of Congress
to be made effective.
Mr. Wood and Mr. William D. Whitney filed a brief in
behalf of Mr. Carter.
Oral argument, in part, of Assistant Attorney General
Dickinson for respondents in Nos. 636 and 649 and for
petitioner in No. 651:
There is general agreement that the statute rests upon
the commerce power. The tax provision stands or falls
with the validity of the scheme of regulation under the
commerce power.
The Government contends that the power to regulate
interstate commerce includes a power, when consistent
with due process, to regulate prices in interstate-commerce transactions. The Government rests this power
upon the admitted power of Congress to regulate sales
and other contracts which are transactions in interstate
commerce. As a matter of fact, Congress goes farther
and regulates contracts, in many instances, which merely
affect interstate commerce; as, for example, under the
Anti-trust laws, agreements to monopolize or restrain
interstate commerce, when the agreements obviously do
not themselves have to be interstate transactions. And
so, also, many of the contracts that are regulated by the
Grain Futures Act and the Packers and Stockyards Act
are not themselves interstate contracts, interstate transactions, but are simply contracts which have an effect in
one way or another on interstate commerce.
The power of the States to regulate sales in interstate
commerce has been expressly denied by this Court in
cases like the Dahnke-Walker case, 257 U. S. 282, and the
Flanagan case, 267 U. S. 222, and the reason 'why the

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Oral Argument of Mr. Dickinson.

298 U.S.

state power has been denied is because there exists a
federal power to regulate them, so that a state power of
regulation would be a usurpation of a power which exists
in the Federal Government. So far, therefore, as relates
to congressional regulation of transactions of that character, there is no violation of any reserved rights of the
States under the Tenth Amendment.
So far as relates to the commerce power, it seems difficult to understand how or why there is any difference in
the application of the commerce power to the price term
as compared to any other term in an interstate contract.
Congress, in the course of its legislation, has adopted
provisions that go to the price term, as, for example, in
ยง 2 of the Clayton Act. It has never, as far as I know,
been claimed that that provision is unconstitutional either
under the commerce clause or under the due process
clause, because it relates to price.
The Government does not contend that Congress may,
in the exercise of its commerce power, regulate prices in
interstate commerce of all commodities. Price-fixing
for any commodity always raises the question whether it
is consistent with due process. [Counsel then pointed out
the parallelismbetween conditions in the bituminous coal
industry and those in the milk industry in New York to
which this Court referred in Nebbia v. New York, 291
U. S. 502, in holding that state regulation of prices in that
industry did not transgress the due process requirements
of the Federal Constitution and, on the basis of these
.considerations, argued that if the commerce power included the power to regulate prices, the exercise of that
power in the case of bituminous coal was not obnoxious to
due process.]
In order to avoid the conclusion that the commerce
power extends to the field of price regulation counsel for
petitioner is driven to contend for two propositions which

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Oral Argument of Mr. Dickinson.

the Government submits are entire novelties in constitutional law, namely, that the commerce power has a
broader scope when applied to the mere agency of commerce, namely, transportation, than when applied to the
commerce itself; and, secondly, that while with respect
to transportation the power to regulate is an affirmative
power of regulation, yet with respect to commerce itself
the power is purely negative-in fact, is not a power to
regulate at all, but only a power to keep the commerce
free from regulation, in the first instance by the States,
and derivatively from regulation or obstructions by private individuals.
If the Constitution intends the commerce clause to be
a mere prohibition against interference by the States with
interstate commerce, why, it may be asked, is it not expressed as a prohibition against the States instead of in
the form of an affirmative grant of power to Congress?
The Constitution contains numerous and important prohibitions against state action.
First, as to history. Counsel undertakes to argue that
the commerce clause must be given a liruited or negative
construction because of what happened at the Federal
Convention in regard to Randolph's Sixth Resolution, a
resolution proposing that the Federal Government should
have the power to legislate in all cases in which the separate States are incompetent, or in which the harmony of
the Union may be interrupted by the exercise of individual legislation. โข He says that that proposal was voted
down three or four times, and that its persistent and continued rejection is an illustration of the jealousy of federal power that existed in the Convention.The Sixth Randolph Resolution, so far from having
been voted down by the Convention, three or four times,
was not voted down once, but was actually adopted by
the Convention by a vote of eight States to two. The
63773o-36----17

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Oral Argument of Mr. Dickinson.

298 U.S.

resolution went to the Drafting Committee, the so-called
committee on detail, and there it disappeared; and in
view of the fact that it was a direction by the Convention
to the Committee on Drafting, it seems reasonable to
suppose that the omission to include the resolution in the
specific language of the Constitition was due to the understanding by the Drafting Committee and by the Convention that the granted powers were to be construed as
each extending, within its own field, to all matters which
could be reached by that power and wherein the States
were incompetent.
Petitioner refers to the jealousies and dissensions that
existed among the States at that time, and he seems to
imply that the purpose of the Constitution was to pamper
and flatter and gratify those jealousies and dissensions.
The opposite was the case. The men of 1787 were less
afraid of federal power within the fields of proper federal
action than are many men today, and one of the questions presented by this case is whether the Constitution
is to. be reduced today to what the Anti-Federalists of
1787 would have liked to see it.
It seems clear that the men who framed the
Constitution, and the States which adopted it, used words broad
enough, unless we import some unwritten and implied
limitation into those words, to cover both the instance
of the regulation of transportation rates and the regulation of prices in sales in interstate commerce; and the
only basis for importing from the outside such an unwritten and implied limitation is speculation and hypothesis.
There can be no doubt that if the exercise of a federal
power transgresses a plain constitutional limitation imposed in the interest of the' States, the principle of
duality may be said to operate when that exercise of
federal power is outlawed in the interest of the state
power. Rut where, on the other hand, there is a plainly
expressed faderal power on the one side, and nothing on

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Oral Argument of Mr. Dickinson.

the other side but the mere general fact that we have a
dual form of government, then the controlling consideration of where the line should be drawn seems to be the
express language of the Constitution as to where it is
drawn, rather than what to one mind or another might
seem to be the proper distribution of powers which ought
to prevail on the basis of a general conception and theory
of dualism. To adopt the latter test, whether we call it
dualism or any other name-that is, the test of where we
think the line ought to be drawn in a dual system of government-is, after all, to appeal from the express constitutional provision itself to considerations of policy and
to make those considerations the test of the constitutional
distribution of powers rather than the language of the
grant.
Finally, that the federal power to regulate interstate
commerce is not purely a negative power, but may be
asserted affirmatively by the Federal Government so long
as the requirements of due process are met, is, we submit,
firmly established by the decisions of this Court for over
a hundred years. It is established, first of all, by the
cases dealing with transportation, unless there is to be a
new distinction established henceforth between transportation and commerce, making transportation commerce
in a fuller sense than is commerce itself.
It is established also by all the cases which have upheld
the exercise of the commerce power for the promotion of
the health, safety, and morals of the Nation-cases which
show that Congress has applied restrictive regulations to
commerce other than transportation and not in any sense
directed to merely protecting commerce from burdens or
obstructions imposed by the States or by private individuals.
But perhaps the most conclusive answer to the claim
that the commerce power confers no affirmative regulatory power upon Congress is the language of this Court
in In re Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545, at p. 561:

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Oral Argument of Mr. Dickinson.

298 U.S.

"Thus the grant to the general government of a power
designed to prevent embarrassing restrictions upon interstate commerce by any State would be made to forbid any
restraint whatever. We do not concur in this view. In
surrendering their own power over external commerce the
States did not secure absolute freedom in such commerce,
but only the protection from encroachment afforded by
confiding its regulation exclusively to Congress."
Any statute may be branded by those not in sympathy
with its policy with hostile descriptions of purpose. The
Constitution does not describe the ultimate results or
objectives which Congress may legitimately have in mind
in exercising its granted powers. The Constitution
speaks in terms of powers and not in terms of purposes
or objectives. To hold that a granted power may not be
validly exercised where it is possible to describe its exercise as aiming at some result which is not expressed by
specific language in the Constitution, would nullify most
exercises of the granted powers, because the Constitution does not specify such objectives of policy.
From the standpoint of power, the question is whether
the direct and immediate objective of the statute is so
unrelated to the power sought to be exercised as not to
fall within it. In the case of the present Act, the Government contends that the direct and immediate objective is one that falls squarely within the commerce power,
namely, the regulation of competitive practices and methods of marketing coal in interstate commerce, whatever
ultimate results may or may not follow from such regulation.
The novel doctrine that the commerce power is purely
negative in character means that there is no governmental
power in this country which can regulate interstate commerce affirmatively, because the States are excluded by
the commerce clause, ex hypothesi, and therefore it
means, if we accept the argument of counsel for the peti-

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Oral Argument of Mr. Dickinson.

tioner, that with relation to the great mass of our most
important commercial transactions today, which are interstate transactions, the Constitution, wholly without
reference to the due process clause or to any of the great
intended guaranties of individual liberty, but simply and
solely by virtue of a defect of power-a vacuum in the
document itself-has stayed the arm of governmental
action and has permanently enacted as a rule of our fundamental law the, economic policy of laissez faire.
I come now to the Government's contention that this
statute as a whole is a regulation of competition and competitive methods in interstate commerce for the purpose of removing burdens and restrictions on that commerce resulting from the hitherto prevailing methods ofcompetition.
The Government claims, and the trial court has found,
that the bituminous coal industry has been suffering for
years from a condition of destructive, cut-throat competition. The Government contends that the price-regulatory provisions in this Act constitute a reasonable and
appropriate method of remedying that condition, with
its attendant evils and resulting burdens and restrictions on commerce, and hence a method lying within the
range of permissible legislative choice.
The Government submits that a type bf competition
which operates through the progressive and endless spiral
of price-cutting and wage-cutting, to bring about such
results as have been proved by 10 years of actual experience-not by speculation, but by actual experience-to
lead to continued loss and bankruptcy for the preponderant part of the industry and to starvation wages for the
miners, and to a condition which requires for its perpetuation the maintenance of an un-American system of barricaded mines guarded by private strong-arm men-the
Government submits that such a type of competition is at
least-and I think I am not overstating it-an unwhole-

262

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Oral Argument of Mr. Dickinson.

298 U.S.

some and destructive type of competition which, so far as
it operates in interstate-commerce transactions, can be
properly and legitimately restrained by congressional
action within the sphere of the commerce power.
We submit that Congress may restrict, and has restricted, competitive conduct in interstate commerce,
when in the judgment of Congress, the result of the competitive practices has been deleterious to those engaged
in the commerce, and that that is the justification and
excuse, for example, of such prohibitions as those which
are contained in ยง 2 of the Clayton Act and ยง 5 of the
Federal Trade Commission Act.
As pointed out by the Court in the Olsen case, 262
U. S. 1, the evils of competition, when the competition
reaches the point where it begins to produce effects that
are thought to be undesirable, generally work themselves
out through prices, or through their effect on prices; and
accordingly, we submit that it is an appropriate means
to deal with this particular competitive situation for the
Congress, in its legislative discretion, to choose the device
of price regulation.
On the point made by petitioner that the Act undertakes to extend price regulation to all transactions, including purely intrastate transactions, and is therefore bad,
the Government contends that on a proper construction
of the Act that is not the case, and that the price-regulation provisions are expressly limited in their scope to
sales in or directly affecting interstate commerce. [Counsel referred to and discussed in this connection the second
paragraph of ยง 4 and the last sentence of ยง 3 of the Act.]
One of the difficulties which inevitably arise when, as
in the present proceeding, the constitutionality of a
statute is sought to be tested in the abstract, before any
attempted application of the statute, is the danger of assuming that this or that provision will be unconstitutionally applied, and that the statute as a whole must

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Oral Argument of Mr. Dickinson.

therefore fall. Almost any statute may be upconstitutionally administered. It may be administratively applied, or sought to be applied, to facts to which it does not
constitutionally apply. But if any such unconstitutional
application should, in fact, be attempted hereafter, if it
should turn out that the officers charged with applying
the Act should attempt to apply it in a way that oversteps
the boundaries of the commerce clause, then '"he Act
itself affords ample opportunity for the affected individual
to try out the constitutional question.
The Government, of course, does not deny that the
Act contemplates that it will reach many sales which
are not themselves direct interstate commerce transactions, but which, although they are intrastate, nevertheless have such a direct and immediate effect on interstate sales that, if the interstate sales are to be regulated,
the intrastate sales must be regulated also, or otherwise
the regulation of the interstate sales would be nullified.
If, as to such a sale, a code member should fail to comply
with the regulatory provisions of the Act, then, of course,
he would be subject to those regulations.
The power to regulate interstate sales carries with it
the power to regulate many intrastate sales-to make the
exercise of the federal power effective. Shreveport Cases,
234 U. S. 342; Ruppert v. Caffey, 251 U. S. 264; Everard's
Breweries v. Day, 265 U. S. 545.
If the power does exist to regulate the interstate sales,
then presumably the Constitution, in conferring that
power, meant it, as in the case of other powers, to carry
with it everything necessary to make its exercise effective; and the mere fact that in order that it might be
effectively exercised it would have to be exercised on a
comparatively broad scale certainly seems no proper
argument, except on the basis of an argument from
policy, and by a kind of inverted logic, against the
existence of the power itself.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Oral Argument of Mr. Dickinson.

298 U.S.

I come now to the mechanism for price determinations,
contained in Part II of the Act, as to which petitioner
has made objections. First, it is clear that these prices
are to have no binding effect except as and until approved by the Commission. [Referring to subsections
(a) and (b) of Part II of ยง 4.] The Act provides standards and makes ample provision for correcting any
injustice which may occur, through appeal to the Commission, and for judicial review of all orders of the Commission.
I come -now to the labor provisions of the Act and, more
particularly, to the major issue as to the constitutional
right of the Federal Government to establish any regulation of labor relations at all, irrespective of the form
that those regulations may take.
The Government contends that since wage-cutting and
denial of the right of collective bargaining is one method
through which destructive cut-throat competition in interstate commerce has been found to operate in this industry, the provisions of this Act relating to collective
bargaining constitute a regulation of acts and transactions which hA, a direct, immediate, and substantial
effect upon interstate commerce, and are therefore a valid
exercise of the congressional power to regulate that commerce, just as Congress may reach down into a purely
intrastate transaction, a transaction of a group of men
sitting around a table and making a contract, because
the effect of that contract will be to restrain interstate
commerce. Just as the Government may reach down
and control that contract because of its effect on interstate commerce, so we maintain that if, in their competition in interstate commerce, the distributors of bituminous coal resort to certain practices in connection with
their labor relations through which they compete with
other distributors in other States, and if the effect of
those practices is to burden interstate commerce, then

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Oral Argument of Mr. Dickinson.

the regulation of those practices is within the power of
the Federal Government.
The record discloses as to this industry the immediate
and direct reciprocal effects of wage-cutting and pricecutting, with their attendant dislocations and disruptions
of interstate commerce. The causal connection between
labor relations in this industry and the burdens on interstate commerce are as sharp and clean-cut as causal
.relations outside the realm of physics can be.
The trial court found that in the bituminous-coal industry the wage scale substantially affects the price of
coal sold in interstate commerce, and the course of movement of such coal in interstate commerce. But the trial
court held that no matter how direct, as well as substantial, the effect of the wage scale and of the labor relations
might be on the sales in interstate commerce and on the
course of movement in interstate commerce, nevertheless,
under the decision in the Schechter case, 295 U. S. 495,
wages and hours and labor relations had to be held, as a
matter of law, something which had only an indirect
effect on interstate commerce, and therefore lay beyond
the reach of the'federal commerce power.
We submit that on the basis of the language of the
Schechter case, read in the light of the facts there presented, that case, so far from laying down any general
rule that wages and hours, as-a matter of law, always
affect interstate commerce only indirectly, on the contrary, expressly states that while the distinction between
that which directly affects interstate commerce and that
which indirectly affects interstate commerce is clear in
principle, nevertheless the application of the principle in
particular situations can only be determined as those situations arise.
On the facts presented in the Schechter case there was
no clear causal relationship between the effect of the
local wages and the resulting local prices, on the one hand,

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Oral Argument of Mr. Dickinson.

298 U.S.

and the movement in interstate commerce, on the other.
The effect, if one existed, had to be traced forward 'from
the local wage-cutting to the local price-cutting, and
thence back over a hypothetical chain of reasoning
to the effect on the interstate-commerce transactions
that lay behind the particular sale, on back toward
the stage of production, while, in the case of the bituminous-coal industry, the wage-cutting operates directly
upon, and brings about an immediately succeeding pricecutting in interstate commerce, with straight-line, unbroken certainty. We submit that that is an excellent
illustration of the difference between a direct effect and
an indirect effect.
We do not attempt to distinguish the Schechter case
from the case at bar on the basis of the fact that there
the employment was at the end of the commerce while
here the employment is at the beginning of the commerce. Our contention is that the distinction is one of
fact,-that the distinction here is whether or not, under
the facts proved in the record, it is apparent that the
relationship of wages and hours to interstate commercethe causal relationship-is direct.
I come now to the broader contention of petitioner
that the commerce power of Congress does not extend to
the regulation of labor relations because labor is engaged
in production, and therefore a regulation of labor relations is a regulation of production, and, as such, beyond
the power of Congress.
It seems entirely clear, from the whole course of constitutional law, that if a transaction may be subsumed
under two descriptiv.e categories, the test of whether it
may be regulated by Congress is not whether it may be
subsumed under a category that the Federal Government cannot regulate, but whether it can be subsumed
under another category which the Federal Government
can regulate.

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Oral Argument of Mr. Dickinson.

The record makes it plain that labor relations in this
industry, I submit, are not merely connected with the
production of coal but are connected with the sale of coal,
with distribution, with competition in interstate commerce; and that their relationship to this aspect of the
industry is far more important and significant than their
relation to the mere physical removal of the coal from
the ground. The fact that a federal regulation may
touch a productive activity does not invalidate the regulation if the activity directly affects interstate commerce
and if the regulation concerns its relation to commerce.
Thus, for example, under the Sherman Act, it soon
became apparent that the regulation of the commerce
reached to the regulation of acts and things that might
from one standpoint be regarded as aspects of production; and this Court has gone even farther, and in the
Oil Cracking Case, 28a U. S. 163, has definitely said that
a combination which brings under control a decisive
factor in the cost of production, so that such control is
tantamount to the power to fix prices, may be within
the Sherman Act.
Clearly, so far as the Anti-trust laws are concerned,
it has been uniformly held that labor relations, even
though they are incidental to production, may fall within
the federal commerce power when a stoppage of production takes the form of a stoppage of interstate commerce.
See Coronado Coal Co. v. United Mine Workers, 268
U. S.295; International Organizationv. Red Jacket Consol. Coal Co., 18 F. (2d) 839, certiorari denied, 275 U. S.
536. It seems difficult to see why, the fact that these
labor relations are a matter of production should not
.take them out of the operation of the commerce power
in one instance and yet do so in the other.
We contend that the Bituminous Coal Conservation
Act regulates labor relations only because, and in so far
as, they constitute an integral and essential part in the

OCTOBER TERM. 1935.
Oral Argument of Mr. Dickinson.

298 U.S.

competitive process in interstate commerce, and that
those relations have a direct and causal effect and influence upon interstate commerce.
I might say also that the reason why the producers
of coal, and the distributors of coal, deny the right of collective bargaining to their miners, or cut wage rates, is
not because of anything which has to do with the physical removal of the coal from the ground; not because of
anything having to do with the production of coal, but
in order to gain an advantage over others in the sale of
coal in interstate commerce.
[Counsel's two remaining arguments were (1) that the
wage and hour provisions of the statute do not constitute
an unconstitutional delegation of legislative power, and
(2) that the various provisions of the statute and the
code are separable, so that if any of them should be held
invalid, this would not affect the remainder.]
One final word before I close. We are confronted here
with the provisions of a new Act. We are confronted
also with the broad question of federal power. Much
may turn upon the decision of this Court and upon the
opinion of this Court. The issues, in a certain sense, are
momentous, far more momentous than the provisions of
this particular Act. The issue of federal power is here
at stake-the issue of whether there lurk within the
interstices of the Constitution crevices through which
effective governmental ability to deal with great public
questions may unconsciously have sifted away.
We do not believe that that has happened. We believe
that the Fathers, in setting up the Constitution under
which we live, were wise enough to see that the perpetuation of that Constitution depended upon its supplying
an instrument of government sufficiently strong to deal
with all the crises of the future, not merely through the
military arm, not merely through the hand of bounty and
through subsidy and relief, but that the regulatory powers

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Brief for Tway Coal Co. et al.

conferred on the Federal Government were not so ineffective and limited that the Government will have to permit
conditions to come into existence and to continue without
being able to do anything about them until the time
should come when, if the peace and order of our Union
is to be preserved, if our Government is to be competent
to deal with the forces of subversion and division, it will
have to resort to other powers,-powers that, as American
citizens, we do not care to see it resort to save in the last
extremity.
We submit that the Government, under the Constitution, is a Government strong enough to deal by law with
the great issues of national destiny that come before it.
We believe that its power is not limited to the military
power, not limited to the charitable power of subsidy and
relief, but that the granted control over commerce extends
to those fields where, more and more as our economic
life draws us into difficulties, there must be one rule and
one law.
Solicitor General Reed, Assistant Attorney General
Dickinson, and Messrs. Charles H. Weston, F. B. Critchlow, A. H. Feller, Charles Harwood, and Robert L. Stern
filed a brief in behalf of the government officers.
Mr. Charles I. Dawson, with whom Mr. A. Shelby Winstead was on the brief, for petitioners in Nos. 649 and 650.
Congress has no power under either the commerce or
taxation clause of the Constitution to regulate production of bituminous coal.
Coal mining is just as much a local activity as is farming or manufacture. It is not commerce of any kind. It
precedes commerce. It consists in the production and
preparation for market of an article ofcommerce, and it
has never been thought that the National Government
has power to regulate such activities through the exertion
of either the commerce power or the taxing power of

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Brief for Tway Coal CO. et al.

298 U.S.

Congress conferred by the Constitution. The recent case
of Schechter Poultry Corp. v. United States, 295 U. S.
495, announced no new principle on this subject. This
Court has consistently held that manufacture, production
and preparation for market of articles of commerce are
purely local activities and beyond the control of the
National Government. United States v. E. C. Knight
Co., 156 U. S.1; Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1; Hammer
v. Dagenihart, 247 U. S. 251; Crescent Cotton Oil Co. v.
Mississippi, 257 U. S. 129; Utah Power & Light Co. v.
Pfost, 286 U. S. 165; Federal Compress Co. v. McLeani,
291 U. S. 17, each holding that manufacture is not cominerce and not within the regulatory power of Congress.
Delaware, L. & WV. R. Co. v. Yurkonis, 238 U. S. 439;
Heisler v. Thomas Colliery Co., 260 U. S. 245; United
Mine Workers v. Corunado Coal Co., 259 U. S. 344, each
holding that coal mining is not interstate commerce.
Oliver Iron Co. v. Lord, 262 U. S. 172, holding that the
mining of iron ore is not interstate commerce.
The fact that ihe greater part of the bituminous coal
produced in the United States, including that produced
by petitioners, at the time it is mined is intended for
sale and shipment in interstate commerce, does not in
the slightest change the purely local character of the
business of producing coal or transform this activity into
commerce, either interstate or intrastate in character.
Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1, 21; United States v. E. C.
Knight Co., 156 U. S. 1; Heisler v. Thomas Colliery Co.,
260 U. S. 245, 259; Oliver Iron Co. v. Lord, 262 U. S.
172; Hammer v. Dagen~hart, 247 U. S. 251, 272.
Utah Power & Light Co. v. Pfost, 286 U. S. 165, fully
sustains our contention that the production end of the
mining business, for the purpose of determining federal
power over it, is as separate and distinct from the
selling end thereof as if they were conducted by entirely

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Brief for Tway Coal Co. et al.

different persons; and each of the foregoing cases makes
it perfectly clear that Congress has no power under the
commerce clause of the Constitution to regulate the production end of the bituminous coal industry.
Of course the mining of coal affects interstate commerce, but it is an indirect effect, no different from the
indirect effect upon such commerce of the growing of
wheat, corn, tobacco or cotton, the raising, of live stock
or the manufacture of goods. The contention is so effectively disposed of by this Court in the case of Schechter
Poultry Corp. v. United States, 295 U. S. 495, 546, that
we are content to rely upon that case as a complete
answer to this contention.
Both on reason and authority it is equally clear that
Congress is without power to regulate the production of
coal through the pretended exertion of its power to tax
for the general welfare. The reason for denying the
power of Congress to regulate production is that the
activity is exclusively within state control. Of course,
being exclusively within state control, its regulation is as
much beyond the power of Congress under the taxing
clause as under the commerce clause. Bailey v. Drexel
Furniture Co., 259 U. S. 20; United States v. Butler,
297 U. S. 1; Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44.
If Congress can regulate the production of coal through
the exercise of the taxing power on the ground that such
regulation is for the national welfare, it can also regulate
the growing of agricultural products. Certainly the production of bituminous coal for fuel purposes, for which
there are many substitutes, is of 11o greater national importance than the growing of foodstuffs for which there
are no substitutes. This Court has definitely said in. the
Butler case that national concern for the welfare of the
farmer cannot justify the regulation of his business by
Congress.

272

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Brief for Tway Coal Co. et al.

298 U.S.

The fact that one who is engaged in the intrastate
sale of an article of commerce also engages in the interstate sale thereof, cannot possibly confer upon Congress
the power to regulate the intrastate sales thereof. This
proposition is so obvious that it seems hardly necessary
to cite authority; but the language of this Court in the
First Employers' Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463, 502, is
a conclusive demonstration of this proposition. Distinguishing: Shreveport Case, 234 U. S. 342.
If it be conceded that Congress, within proper limits,
has the power to regulate the business of selling coal in
interstate commerce, this entire Act, including the provisions dealing with interstate sales, must fall because of
the inseparability of its provisions.
The .repeated declaration of Congress of the necessity
for regulating every phase of the bituminous coal industry to secure the desired result is conclusive evidence, it
seems to us, that regulations of less scope would not
have been acceptable to Congress.
The regulations required by ยง 4 to be embodied in the
Code are as all-inclusive as Congress declared in ยง 1 it
was intended they should be. They cover not only the
marketing end of the busines but the production end
as well; not only the interstate part of the marketing
end of the business but the intrastate part thereof as
well. So we have in this Act, first a declaration
on the part of Congress, four times repeated, of the
necessity for regulating every phase of bituminous coal
mining in order to effectuate the desired end; second, the
declaration of Congress, four times repeated, of its intention to make the regulations as broad as the declared
necessity therefor; third, a declaration preceding the
regulations that they were intended to, carry out the
declared policy of the Act; fourth, regulations which, in
their scope, cover the entire field which Congress de-

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Brief for Tway Coal Co. et al.

clared its intention to cover and the necessity for covering.
Therefore, notwithstanding the separability
clause found in ยง 15 of the Act, the regulations dealing
with the interstate sale of coal, even if within the power
of Congress, must fall because it is plain that they are a
definitely intended part of an integrated scheme of regulation of the bituminous coal industry, many material
features of such system of regulation being undoubtedly
beyond the power of Congress. Williams v. Standard Oil
Co., 278 U. S. 235, 241; Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44;
Railroad Retirement Board v. Alton R. Co., 295 U. S.
330, 361,362,
The provisions dealing with the fixing of prices at
which coal is sold and contracts for the sale of coal make
no distinction between interstate and intrastate sales.
They cover both character of sales and it is plain that it
was the intention of Congress that they should do so.
So in this case, if the Court should rewrite the Act so
as to confine the fixing of prices and the regulation of
contracts to sales made in interstate commerce, we would
have an Act plainly never intended to be passed by Congress. Furthermore, when we consider that 14% of the
coal produced in the United States is sold within the
State where produced, it becomes at once apparent that
price-fixing confined to interstate sales will be entirely
ineffective in accomplishing the declared purpose of Congress to stabilize the industry.
The regulations providing for fixing prices of coal sold
in interstate commerce and for the policing of contracts
in connection therewith are invalid, even if separable.
First, because they have no reasonable relation to any
of the purposes or objects which Congress may take into
consideration in exercising its power to regulate interstate commerce, but, on the contrary, as we have heretofore pointed out, their real purpose is to regulate mat65773 o3(--18I

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Brief for Tway Coal Co. et al.

298 U.S.

ters not within the competency of Congress; and, second,
assuming that under its power to regulate interstate commerce Congress has the power, in a proper case, to fix
the prices and regulate contracts with reference to the
sale of articles in interstate commerce, it has no such
power with reference to bituminous coal, as the business
of producing and selling bituminous coal is not one so
affected with a public interest as to authorize price-fixing
and the regulation of contracts in respect thereto by
Congress.
Other provisions of the Act clearly show that even the
regulation of prices of coal sold in interstate commerce
was designed to regulate the producing end of the industry, and particularly the labor relations between the producer and his employees.
In ยง 4, Part II-Marketing, Congress declared that the
dominant purpose in the fixing of minimum prices was
the stabilization of wages and working conditions in the
production end of the business. Hence, it seems entirely
clear that in fixing minimum prices Congress was not
attempting in good faith to regulate the interstate traffic
in coal, but to regulate the production thereof.
Part III of ยง 4 dealing with labor relations was designed to bring about uniformity and stabilization of
wages, working hours and conditions, through collective
bargaining; And it is clear that the establishment of minimum prices was for the primary purpose of enabling each
producer to pay the minimum wages and observe
the hours and, working conditions thus collectively
bargained for.
It cannot be contended that Congress has any independent power to fix the prices at which articles of commerce are sold, or to regulate contracts with reference
thereto. If the power exists, it is merely incidental to
the exercise of its power to regulate interstate commerce.
The power to regulate private business flows from the

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Brief for Tway Coal Co. et al.

police power. Inasmuch as Congress has no police power
in the respective States, it can attain the purposes which
ordinarily call into play the exercise of the police power
only as an incident to the legitimate exercise of some one
or more of its granted powers. Therefore, if, in the exercise of its power to regulate interstate commerce, Congress seeks incidentally to promote the general welfare,
through the fixing of prices of an article of commerce,
certainly it can do so only if the fixing of such prices is
permissible in the independent exercise of the police
power. Congress cannot, in the regulation of interstate
commerce, incidentally fix prices, unless such price-fixing
would be a legitimate exercise of the police power by a
legislative body possessing that power.
We think it is thoroughly settled that the legislative
department is without power to fix either prices or wages,
except in respect of those businesses affected with a public interest. The question has been many times before
this Court, and in each case the problem was to determine
if the particular business was one affected with a public
interest; and this is always a question for the Court.
Wolff Packing Co. v. Industrial Court, 262 U. S. 522;
Tyson & Bro. v. Banton, 273 U. S. 418; Fairmont Creamery Co. v. Minnesota, 274 U. S. 1; Ribnik v. McBride,
277 U. S. 350; Williams v. Standard Oil Co., 278 U. S.
235; Adkins v. Children'sHospital, 261 U. S. 525; Nebbia
v. New York, 291 U. S. 502; New State Ice Co. v. Liebmann, 285 U. S. 262.
Distinguishing: Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113; German Alliance Ins. Co. v. Lewis, 233 U. S. 389; Wilson
v. New, 243 U. S. 332; Block v. Hirsh, 256 U. S. 135;
Marcus Brown Co. v. Feldman, 256 U. S. 170; Highland
v. Russell Car & Snow Plow Co., 279 U. S. 253; Frost v.
CorporationCommission, 278 U. S. 515; Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S. 495; Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United
States, 280 U. S. 420.

276

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Brief for Tway Coal Co. et al.

298 U.S.

As we understand the case of Nebbia v. New York, 291
U. S. 502, it does not discard the long established rule
of this Court that price-fixing is justified only in respect
of businesses affected with a public interest. It does hold
that businesses affected with a public interest are not
confined to public utilities or to businesses of a monopolistic nature, or to those in which the owner is bound to
serve all who apply. It seems to us, however, that pricefixing in the milk industry, upheld in that case, was sustained because it was thought that the facts in connection with that industry in the State of New York clearly
showed that the business had become affected with a public interest. The legislation there involved was an exercise of the police power, primarily in the interest of the
health of the public, and the Court held that because of
peculiar and unusual conditions in the milk industry,
price-fixing had a reasonable relation to the object sought
to be accomplished, which was the assurance of an adequate supply of wholesome milk to the public, and was
not an arbitrary exercise of the police power.
No comparable conditions, however, exist in the coal
industry. There is no threatened shortage in production
or supply. On the contrary, the only problem of the coal
business is that which is incident to all business as to
which at any given time there exists a capacity for production in excess of the market demand. If over-production and the consequent economic disorganization
and distress of a business justifies price-fixing, then during periods of economic depression prices may be fixed
by Congress in every important industry, the products of
which move in interstate commerce.
Section 3 is not a revenue provision but an integral
part of the illegal scheme to regulate the entire bituminous coal industry.
The Act delegates legislative power. If it be conceded that Congress has the. power to deal with the mat-

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Amici Curiae Briefs.

ters required byr ยง 4 to be incorporated in the Code, it
cannot delegate that power. Panama Refining Co. v.
Ryan, 293 U. S. 388; Schechter Poultry Corp. v. United
States, 295 U. S. 495. Inasmuch as the statute, for all
practical purposes, compels all producers to become Code
members, every producer is thus required to submit to
hours of labor and wages, fixed by private persons,
whether he participates in the fixing or not. The legislative department cannot authorize private citizens to
thus deal with the rights of others. Eubank v. Richmond, 226 U. S. 137; Washington ex rel. Seattle Title &
Trust Co. v. Roberge, 278 U. S. 116.
Mr. Karl J. Hardy submitted for Carter Coal Co. et al.,
respondents in Nos. 636 ad 651.
Mr. Joseph Selligman submitted for respondent in
No. 650.
By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae,were filed as
follows:
Mr. Otto Kerner, Attorney General of Illinois, and
Mr. Kent E. Keller, on behalf of the State of Illinois; Mr.
Philip Lutz, Jr., Attorney General of Indiana, and Mr.
Urban C. Stover, First Deputy Attorney General, on behalf of the State of Indiana; Mr. A. E. Funk, Assistant
Attorney General of Kentucky, on behalf of the State of
Kentucky; Mr. Frank H. Patton, Attorney General of
New Mexico, on behalf of the State of New Mexico; Mr.
John Caren, on behalf of the State of Ohio; Mr. Charles
J. Margiotti, Attorney General of Pennsylvania, and
Messrs. Grover C. Ladner and Edward Friedman,Deputy
Attorneys General, on behalf of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania; Mr. G. W. Hamilton, Attorney General
of Washington, and Messrs. Geo. G. Hannan and E. P.
Donnelly, Assistant Attorneys General, on behalf of the
State of Washington; Mr. Henry Warrum, on behalf of

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

the United Mine Workers of America; and Messrs. A. M.
Liveright, Thurlow G. Essington, John L. Steinbugler,
and C. F. C. Arensberg, on behalf of members of the
Bituminous Coal Code ;-supporting the validity of the
Act.
Messrs. Rolla D. Campbell, John W. Davis, E. L.
Greever, Don Rose, Robert S. Spilman, Edwin S. S. Sunderland, Malcolm Fooshee, Walter T. Kinder, Wm. E.
Steven-son, Edward E. Barthell, Lee C. Bradley, Jr.,
Henry E. Colton, Wm. C. Cherry, George T. Evans,
Matthew C. Fleming, Virgil Y. Moore, J. Van Dyke Norman, Percy Allen Rose, and Morris H. Winger, on behalf
of certain commercial producers of bituminous coal; and
Messrs. Forney Johnston and Jos. F. Johnston, on behalf
of certain producers of bituminous coal in the State of
Alabama;--challenging the validity of the Act.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The purposes of the "Bituminous Coal Conservation
Act of 1935," involved in these suits, as declared by the
title, are to stabilize the bituminous coal-mining industry
and promote its interstate commerce; to provide for cooperative marketing of bituminous coal; to levy a tax
on such coal and provide for a drawback under certain
conditions; to declare the production, distribution, and
use of such coal to be affected with a national public
interest; to conserve the national resources of such coal;
to provide for the general welfare, and for other purposes.
C. 824; 49 Stat. 991. The constitutional validity of the
act is challenged in each of the suits.
Nos. 636 and 651 are cross-writs of certiorari in a
stockholder's suit, brought in the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia by Carter against the Carter Coal
Company and some of its officers, Guy T. Helvering
(Commissioner of Internal Re-venue of the United

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Opinion of the Court.

States), and certain other officers of the United States,
to enjoin the coal company and its officers named from
filing an acceptance of the code provided for in said act,
from paying any tax imposed upon the coal company
under the authority of the act, and from complying with
its provisions or the provisions of the code. The bill
sought to enjoin the Commissioner of Internal Revenue
and the other federal officials named from proceeding
under the act in particulars specified, the details of which
it is unnecessary to state.
No. 649 is a suit brought in a federal district court in
Kentucky by petitioners against respondent collector of
internal revenue for the district of Kentucky, to enjoin
hin from collecting or attempting to collect the taxes
sought to be imposed upon them by the act, on the
ground of its unconstitutionality.
No. 650 is a stockholder's suit brought in the same
court against the coal company and some of its officers,
to secure a mandatory injunction against their refusal
to accept and operate under the provisions of the Bituminous Coal Code prepared in pursuance of the act.
By the terms of the act, every producer of bituminous
coal within the United States is brougtit within its
provisions.
Section 1 is a detailed assertion of circumstances
thought to- justify the act. It declares, that the mining
and distribution of bituminous coal throughout the
United States by the producer are affected with a national public interest; and that the service of such coal
in relation to industrial activities, transportation facilities, health and comfort of the people, conservation by
controlled production and economical mining and marketing, maintenance of just and rational relations between
the public, owners, producers and employees, the right of
the public to constant and adequate supplies of coal at
reasonable prices, and the general welfare of the nation,

280

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

require that the bituminous coal industry should be regulated as the act provides.
Section 1, among other things, further declares that
the production and distribution by producers of such
coal bear upon and directly affect interstate commerce,
and render regulation of production and distribution
imperative for the protection of such commerce; that
certain features connected with the production, distribution, and marketing have led to waste of the national
coal resources, disorganization of interstate commerce in
such coal, and burdening and obstructing interstate commerce therein; that practices prevailing in the production of such coal directly affect interstate commerce and
require regulation for the protection of that commerce;
and that the right of mine workers to organize and collectively bargain for wages, hours of labor, and conditions of employment should be guaranteed in order to
prevent constant wage cutting and disparate labor costs
detrimental to fair interstate competition, and in order to
avoid obstructions to interstate commerce that recur in
industrial disputes over labor relations at the mines.
These declarations constitute not enactments of law, but
legislative averments by way of inducement to the
enactment which follows.
The substantive legislation begins with ยง 2, which
establishes in the Department of the Interior a National
Bituminous Coal Commission, to be appointed and constituted as the section then specifically provides. Upon
this commission is conferred the power to hear evidence
and find facts upon which its orders and actions may be
predicated.
Section 3 provides:
"There is hereby imposed upon the sale or other disposal of all bituminous coal produced within the United
States an excise tax of 15 per centum on the sale price
at the mine, or in the case of captive coal the fair market

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO
238

Opinion of the Court.

value of such coal at the mine, such tax, subject to the
later provisions of this section, to be payable to the
United States by the producers of such coal, and to be
payable monthly for each calendar month, on or before
the first business day of the second succeeding month,
and under such regulations, and in such manner, as shall
be prescribed by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue:
Provided, That in the case of captive coal produced as
aforesaid, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue shall
fix a price therefor at the current market price for the
comparable kind, quality, and size of coals in the locality
where the same is produced: Provided further, That any
such coal producer who has filed with the National Bituminous Coal Commission his acceptance of the code provided for in section 4 of this Act, and who acts in compliance with the provisions of such code, shall be entitled
to a drawback in the form of a credit upon the amount
of such tax payable hereunder, equivalent to 90 per
centum of the amount of such tax, to be allowed and
deducted therefrom at the time settlement therefor is
required, in such manner as shall be prescribed by the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue. Such right or benefit of drawback shall apply to all coal sold or disposed
of from and after the day of the producer's filing with
the Commission his acceptance of said code in such form
of agreement as the Commission may prescribe. No producer shall by reason of his acceptance of the code
provided for in section 4 or of the drawback of taxes provided in section 3 of this Act be held to be precluded w
estopped from contesting the constitutionality of any
provision of said code, or its validity as applicable to
such producer."
Section 4 provides that the commission shall formulate
the elaborate provisions contained therein into a working
agreement to be known as the Bituminous Coal Code.
These provisions require the organization of twenty-three

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

coal districts, each with a district board the membership
of which is to be determined in a manner pointed out by
the act. Minimum prices for coal are to be established
by each of these boards, which is authorized to make such
classification of coals and price variation as to mines and
consuming market areas as it may deem proper. "In
order to sustain the stabilization of wages, working conditions, and maximum hours of labor, said prices shall
be established so as to yield a return per net ton for each
district in a minimum price area, as such districts are
identified and such area is defined in the subjoined table
designated 'Minimum-price area table,' equal as nearly
as may be to the weighted average of the total costs, per
net ton, determined as hereinafter provided, of the tonnage of such minimum price area. The computation of
the total costs shall include the cost of labor, supplies,
power, taxes, insurance, workmen's compensation, royalties, depreciation, and depletion (as determined by the
Bureau of Internal Revenue in the computation of the
Federal income tax) and all other direct expenses of production, coal operators' association dues, district board
assessments for Board operating expenses only levied
under the code, and reasonable costs of selling and the
cost of administration." The district board must determine and adjust the total cost of the ascertainable tonnage produced in the district so as to give effect to any
changes in wage rates, hours of employment, or other
factors substantially affecting costs, which may have been
established since January 1st, 1934.
Without repeating the long and involved provisions
with regard to the fixing of minimum prices, it is enough
to say that the act confers the power to fix the minimum
price of coal at each and every coal mine in the United
States, with such price variations as the board may deem
necessary and proper. There is also a provision authorizing the commission, when deemed necessary in the public

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Opinion of the Court.

interest, to establish maximum prices in order to protect
the consumer against unreasonably high prices.
All sales and contracts for the sale of coal are subject
to the code prices provided for and in effect when such
sales and contracts are made. Various unfair methods
of competition are defined and forbidden.
The labor provisions of the code, found in Part III of
the same section, require that in order to effectuate the
purposes of the act the district boards and code members.
shall accept specified conditions contained in the coOr
among which are the following:
Employees to be given the right to organize and bargain collectively, through representatives of their own
choosing, free from interference, restraint, or coercion of
employers or their agents in respect of their concerted
activities.
Such employees to have the right of peaceable assemblage for the discussion of the principles of collective
bargaining and to select their own check-weighman to
inspect the weighing or measuring of coal.
A labor board is created, consisting of three members,
to be appointed by the President and assigned to the
Department of Labor. Upon this board is conferred
authority to adjudicate disputes arising under the provisions just stated, and to determine whether or not an
organization of employees had been promoted, or is controlled or dominated by an employer in its organization,
management, policy, or election of representatives. The
board "may order a code member to meet the representatives of its employees for the purpose of collective
bargaining."
Subdivision (g) of Part III provides:
"Whenever the maximum daily and weekly hours of
labor are agreed upon in any contract or contracts
negotiated between the producers of more than twothirds the annual national tonnage pro(luction for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

preceding calendar year and the representatives of more
than one-half of the mine workers employed, such maximum hours of labor shall be accepted by all the code
members. The wage agreement or agreements negotiated by collective bargaining in any district or group
of two or more districts, between representatives of producers of more than two-thirds of the annual tonnage
production of such district or each of such districts in a
contracting group during the preceding calendar year,
and representatives of the majority of the mine workers
therein, shall be filed with the Labor Board and shall be
accepted as the minimum wages for the various classifications of labor by the code members operating in such
district or group of districts."
The bill of complaint in Nos. 636 and 651 was filed
in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia on
August 31, 1935, the day after the Coal Conservation
Act came into effect. That court, among other things,
found that the suit was brought in good faith; that if
Carter Coal Company should join the code it would be
compelled to cancel existing contracts and pay its proportionate share of administering the code; that the production of bituminous coal is a local activity carried on
within state borders; that coal is the nation's greatest
and primary source of energy, vital to the public welfare,
of the utmost importance to the industrial and economic
life of the nation and the health and comfort of its
inhabitants; and that its distribution in interstate commerce should be regular, continuous, and free of interruptions, obstructions, burdens, and restraints.
Other findings are to the effect that such coal is generally sold f. o. b. mine, and the predominant portion of
it shipped outside the state in which it is produced; that
the distribution and marketing is predominantly interstate in character, and that the intrastate distribution

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Opinion of the Court.

and sale are so connected that interstate regulation cannot be accomplished effectively unless transactions of
intrastate distribution and sale be regulated.
The court further found the existence of a condition of
unrestrained and destructive competition in the system
of distribution and marketing such coal, and of destructive price-cutting, burdening and restraining interstate
commerce and dislocating and diverting its normal flow.
The court concluded as a matter of law that the bringing of the suit was not premature; that the plaintiff was
without legal remedy, and rightly invoked relief in
equity; that the labor provisions of the act and code were
unconstitutional for reasons stated, but the price-fixing
provisions were valid and constitutional; that the labor
provisions are separable; and, since the provisions with
respect to price-fixing and unfair competition are valid,
the taxing provisions of the act could stand. Therefore,
except for granting a permanent injunction against collection of the "taxes" accrued during the suit (Ex parte
Young, 209 U. S. 123, 147-148), the court denied the
relief sought, and dismissed the bill.
Appeals were taken to the United States Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia by the parties; but
pending hearing and submission in that court, petitions
for writs of certiorari were. presented asking us to review
the decree of the Supreme Court of the District without
awaiting such hearing and submission. Because of the
importance of the question and the advantage of a speedy
final determination thereof, the writs were granted.
The remaining two suits (Nos. 649 and 650), involving
the same questions, were brought in the federal District
Court for the Western District of Kentucky. That court
held the act valid and constitutional in its entirety and
entered a decree accordingly. 12 F. Supp. 570. Appeals
were taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

Circuit; but, as in the Carter case and for the same
reasons, this court granted writs of certiorari in advance
of hearing and submission.
The questions involved will be considered under the
following heads:
1. The right, of stockholders to maintain suits of this
character.
2. Whether the suits were prematurely brought.
3. Whether the exaction of 15 per centum on the sale
price of coal at the mine is a tax or a penalty.
4. The purposes of the act as set forth in ยง 1, and the
authority vested in Congress by the Constitution to
effectuate: them.
5. Whether the labor provisions of the act can be "upheld as an exercise of the power to regulate interstate
commerce.
6. Whether subdivision (g) of Part III of the Code,
is an unlawful delegation of power.
7. The constitutionality of the price-fixing provisions,
and the question of severability-that is to say, whether
if either the group of labor provisions or the group of
price-fixing provisions be found constitutionally invalid,
the other can stand as separable.
First. In the Carter case (Nos. 636 and 651) the stockholder who brought the suit had formally demanded of
the board of directors that the company should not join
the code, should refuse to pay the tax fixed by the act,
and should bring appropriate judicial proceedings to prevent an unconstitutional and improper diversion of the
assets of the company and to have determined the liability
of the company under the act. The board considered
the demand, determined that, while it believed the act
to be unconstitutional and economically unsound and
that it would adversely affect the business of the company if accepted, nevertheless it should accept the code
provided for by the act because the penalty in the form

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Opinion of the Court.

of a 15% tax on its gross sales would be seriously in-

jurious and might result in bankruptcy. This action of
the board was approved by a majority of the shareholders
at a special meeting called for the purpose of considering it.

In the Tway Company cases, the company itself
brought suit to enjoin the enforcement of the act (No.
649); and a stockholder brought suit to compel the company to accept the code and operate under its provisions
(No. 650).
Without repeating the long averments of the several
bills, we are of opinion that the suits were properly
brought and were maintainable in a court of equity. The
right of stockholders to bring such suits under the circumstances disclosed is settled by the recent decision of
this court in Ashwander v. Tennessee Valley Authority,
297 U: S. 288, and requires no further discussion.
Second. That the suits were not prematurely brought
also is clear. Section 2 of the act is mandatory in its
requirement that the commission be appointed by the
President. The provisions of ยง 4 that the code be formulated and promulgated are equally mandatory. The socalled tax of 15% is definitely imposed, and its exaction
certain to ensue.
In Pennsylvania v. West Virginia, 262 U. S. 553, 592595, suits were brought by Pennsylvania and Ohio against
West Virginia to enjoin the defendant state from enforcing an act of her legislature upon the ground that it
would injuriously affect or cut off the supply of natural
gas produced in her territory and carried by pipe lines
into the territory of the plaintiff states and there sold
and used. These suits were brought a few days after the
West Virginia act became effective. No order had yet
been made under it by the Public Service Commission,
nor had it been tested in actual practice. But it appeared
that the act was certain to operate as the complainant

288

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

states apprehended it would. This court held that the
suit was not premature. "One does not have to await the
consummation of threatened injury to obtain preventive
relief. If the injury is certainly impending that is
enough."
Pierce v. Society of Sisters, 268 U. S. 510, 535-536,
involved the constitutional validity of the Oregon Compulsory Education Act, which required every parent or
other person having control of a child between the ages
of eight and sixteen years to send him to the public school
of the district where he resides. Suit was brought to
enjoin the operation of the act by corporations owning
and conducting private schools, on the ground that their
business and property were threatened with destruction
through the unconstitutional compulsion exercised by
the act upon parents and guardians. The suits were held
to be not premature, although the effective date of the
act had not yet arrived. We said-"The injury to appellees was present and very real, not a mere possibility
in the remote future. If no relief had been possible
prior to the effective date of the Act, the injury would
have become irreparable. Prevention of impending injury by unlawful action is a well recognized function of
courts of equity.".
See, also, Terrace v. Thompson, 263 U. S. 197,
215-216; Swift & Co. v. United States, 276 U. S. 311,
326; Euclid v. Ambler Realty Co., 272 U. S. 365, 386;
City Bank Co. v. Schnader, 291 U. S. 24, 34.
Third. The so-called excise tax of 15 per centurn on
the sale price of coal at the mine, or, in the case of captive coal the fair market value, with its drawback allowance of 1312%, is clearly not a tax but a penalty. The
exaction applies to all bituminous coal produced, whether
it be sold, transported or consumed in interstate commerce, or transactions in respect of it be confined wholly

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Opinion of the Court.

to the limits of the state. It also applies to "captive
coal"-that is to say, coal produced for the sole use of
the producer.
It is very clear that the "excise tax" is not imposed for
revenue but exacted as a' penalty to compel compliance
with the regulatory provisions of thc act. The whole
purpose of the exaction is to coerce what is called an
agreement-which, of course, it is not, for it lacks the
essential element of consent. One who does a thing in
order to avoid a monetary penalty does not agree; he
yields to compulsion precisely the same as though he did
so to avoid a term in jail.
The exaction here is a penalty and not a tax within
the test laid down by this court in numerous cases. Child
Labor Tax Case, 259 U. S. 20, 37-39; United States v.
La Franca, 282 U. S. 568, 572; United States v. Constantine, 296 U. S. 287, 293 et seq.; United States v.
Butler, 297 U. S. 1, 70. While the lawmaker is entirely
free to ignore the ordinary meanings of words and make
definitions of his own, Karnuth v. United States, 279
U. S. 231, 242; Tyler v. United States, 281 U. S. 497, 502,
that device may not be employed so as to change the
nature of the acts or things to which the words are applied. But it is not necessary to pursue the matter further. That the "tax" isin fact a penalty is not seriously
in dispute. The position of the Government, as we understand it, is that the validity of the exaction does not rest
upon the taxing power but upon the power of Congress
to regulate interstate commerce; and that if the act in
respect of the labor and price-fixing provisions be not
upheld, the "tax" must fall with them. With that position we agree and confine our consideration accordingly.
Fourth. Certain recitals contained in the act plainly
suggest that its makers were of opinion that its constitutionality could be sustained under some general federal
65773'-36-19

290

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

power, thought to exist, apart from the specific grants of
the Constitution. The fallacy of that view will be apparent when we recall fundamental principles which, although hitherto often expressed in varying forms of
words, will bear repetition whenever their accuracy seems
to be challenged. The recitals to which we refer are contained in ยง 1 (which is simply a preamble to the act),
and, among others, are to the effect that the distribution
of bituminous coal is of national interest, affecting the
health and comfort of the people and the general welfare
of the nation; that this circumstance, together with the
necesgity of maintaining just and rational relations between the public, owners, producers, and employees, and
the right of the public to constant and adequate supplies
at reasonable prices, require regulation of the industry as
the act provides. These affirmations-and the further
ones that the production and distribution of such coal
"directly affect interstate commerce," because of which
and of the waste of the national coal resources and other
circumstances, the regulation is necessary for the protection of such commerce-do not constitute an exertion
of the will of Congress which is legislation, but a recital
of considerations which in the opinion of that body
existed and justified the expression of its will in the present act. Nevertheless, this preamble may not be disregarded. On the contrary it is important, because it
makes clear, except for the pure assumption that the conditions described "directly" affect interstate commerce,
that the powers which Congress undertook to exercise are
not specific but of the most general character-namely,
to protect the general public interest and the health and
comfort of the people, to conserve privately-owned coal,
maintain just relations between producers and employees
and others, and promote the general welfare, by controlling nation-wide production and distribution of coal.
These, it may be conceded, are objects of great worth;

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Opinion of the Court.

but are they ends, the attainment of which has been
committed by the Constitution to the federal government?
This is a vital question; for nothing is more certain than
that beneficent aims, however great or well directed, can
never serve in lieu of constitutional power.
The ruling and firmly established principle is that the
powers which the general government may exercise are
only those specifically enumerated in the Constitution,
and such implied powers as arc necessary and proper to
carry into effect the enumerated powers. Whether the
end sought to be attained by an act of Congress is legitimate is wholly a matter of constitutional power and not
at all of legislative discretion. Legislative congressional
discretion begins with the choice of means and ends with
the adoption of methods and details to carry the delegated powers into effect. The distinction between these
two things-power and discretion-is not only very plain
but very important. For while the powers are rigidly
limited to the enumerations of the Constitution, the
means which may be employed to carry the powers into
effect are not restricted, save that they must be appropriate, plainly adapted to the end, and not prohibited by,
but consistent with, the letter and spirit of the Constitution. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 421. Thus,
it may be said that to a constitutional end many ways
are open; but to an end not within the terms of the Constitution, all ways are closed.
The proposition, often advanced and as often discredited, that the power of the federal government inherently extends to purposes affecting the nation as a
whole with which the states severally cannot deal or
cannot adequately deal, and the related notion that Congress, entirely apart from those powers delegated by the
Constitution, may enact laws to promote the general welfare, have never been accepted but always definitely rejected by this court. Mr. Justice Story, as early as 1816,

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

laid down the cardinal rule, which has ever since been
followed-that the general government "can'clain no
powers which are not granted to it by the Constitution,
and the powers actually granted, must be such as are
expressly given, or given by necessary implication."
Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304, 326. In the
Framers Convention, the proposal to confer a general
power akin to that just discussed was included in Mr.
Randolph's resolutions, the sixth of which, among other
things, declared that the National Legislature ought to
enjoy the legislative rights vested in Congress by the
Confederation, and "moreover to legislate in all cases to
which the separate States are incompetent, or in which
the harmony of the United States may be interrupted
by the exercise of individual Legislation." The convention, however, declined to confer upon Congress power
in such general terms; instead of Which it carefully
limited the powers which it thought wise to entrust to
Congress by specifying them, thereby denying all others
not granted expressly or by necessary implication. It
made no grant of authority to Congress to legislate substantively for the general welfare, United States v.
Butler, supra, p. 64; and no such authority exists, save
as the general welfare. may be promoted by the exercise
of the powers which are granted. Compare Jacobson v.
Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11, 22.
There are many subjects in respect of which the several
states have not legislated in harmony with one another,
and in which their varying laws and the failure of some of
them to act at all have resulted in injurious confusion
and embarrassment. See Addyston Pipe & Steel Co. v.
United States, 175 U. S. 211, 232-233. The state laws
with respect to marriage and divorce present a case in
point; and the great necessity of national legislation on
that subject has been from time to time vigorously urged.
Other pertinent examples are laws with respect to nego-

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Opinion of the Court.

tiable instruments, desertion and non-support, certain
phases of state taxation, and others which we do not
pause to mention. In many of these fields of legislation,
the necessity of bringing the applicable rules of law into
general harmonious relation has been so great that a
Commission on Uniform State Laws, composed of commissioners from every state in the Union, has for many
years been industriously and successfully working to that
end by preparing and securing the passage by the several
states of uniform laws. If there be an easier and constitutional way to these desirable results through congressional action, it thus far has escaped discovery.
Replying directly to the suggestion advanced by counsel in Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46, 89-90, to the
effect that necessary powers national in their scope must
be found vested in Congress, though not expressly
granted or essentially implied, this court said:
"But the proposition that there are legislative powers
affecting the Nation as a whole which belong to, although
not expressed in the grant of powers, is in direct conflict
with the doctrine that this is a government of enumerated
powers. That. this is such a government clearly appears
from the Constitution, independently of the Amendments, for otherwise there would be an instrument granting certain specified things made operative to grant other
and distinct, things. This natural construction of the
original body of the Constitution is made absolutely certain by the Tenth Amendment. This amendment, which
was seemingly adopted with prescience of just such contention as the present, disclosed the widespread fear that
the National Government might, under the pressure of
a supposed general welfare, attempt to exercise powers
which had not been granted. With equal determination
the framers intended that no such assumption should
ever find justification in the organiic act, and that if in
the future further powers seemed necessary they should

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

be granted by the people in the manner they had provided for amending that act."
The general rule with regard to the respective powers
of the national and the state governments under the
Constitution, is not in doubt. The states were before
the Constitution; and, consequently, their legislative
powers antedated the Constitution. Those who framed
and those who adopted that instrument meant to carve
from the general mass of legislative powers, then possessed by the states, only such portions as it was thought
wise to confer upon the federal government; and in
order that there should be no uncertainty in respect of
what was taken and what was left, the national powers of
legislation were not aggregated but enumerated-with the
result that what was not embraced by the enumeration
remained vested in the states without change or impairment. Thus, "when it was found necessary to establish
a national government for national purposes," this court
said in Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113, 124, "a part of the
powers of the States and of the people of the States was
granted to the United States and the people of the
United States. This grant operated as a further limitation upon the powers of the States, so that now the governments of the States possess all the powers of the Parliainent of England, except such as have been delegated
to the United States or reserved by the people." While
the states are not sovereign in the true sense of that term,
but only quasi-sovereign, yet in respect of all powers reserved to them they are supreme-"as independent of
the general government as that govermnent within its
sphere is independent of the States." Collector v. D6y,
11 Wall. 113, 124. And since every addition to the national legislative power to some extent detracts from
or invades the power of the states, it is of vital moment
that, in order to preserve the fixed balance intended by
the Constitution, the powers of the general government

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Opinion of the Court.

be not so extended as to embrace any not within the
express terms of the several grants or the implications
necessarily to be drawn therefrom. It is no longer open
to question that the general governnent, unlike the
states, Hammer v. Dagenhart, 247 U. S. 251, 275, possesses no inherent power in respect of the internal affairs
of the states; and emphatically not with regard to legislation. The question in respect of the inherent power of
that government as to the external affairs of the nation
and in the field of international law is a wholly different
matter which it is not necessary now to consider. See,
however, Jones v. United States, 137 U. S. 202, 212;
Nishimura Ekiu v. United States, 142 U. S. 651, 659;
Fonag Yue Ting v. United States, 149 U. S. 698, 705 et
seq.; Burnet v. Brooks, 288 U. S. 378, 396.
The determination of the Framers Convention and the
ratifying conventions to preserve complete and unimpaired state self-government in all matters not committed to the general govermnent is one of the plainest
facts which emerge from the history of their deliberations. And adherence to that determination is incumbent equally upon the federal government and the states.
State powers can neither be appropriated on the one
hand nor abdicated on the other. As this court said in
Texas v. White, 7 Wall. 700, 725-"the preservation of
the States, and the maintenance of their governments,
are as much within the design and care of the Constitution as the preservation of the Union and the maintenance of the National Government. The Constitution,
in all its provisions, looks to an indestructible Union,
composed of indestructible States." Every journey to a
forbidden end begins with the first step; and the danger
of such a step by the federal government in the direction
of taking over the powers of the states is that the end of
the journey may find the states so despoiled of their
powers, or-what may amount to the same thing-so

296

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

relieved of the responsibilities which possession of the
powers necessarily enjoins, as to reduce them to little
more than geographical subdivisions of the national domain. It is safe to say that if, when the Constitution
was under consideration, it had been thought that any
such danger lurked behind its plain words, it would never
have been ratified.
And the Constitution itself is in every real sense a lawthe lawmakers being the people themselves, in whom
under our system all political power and sovereignty primarily resides, and through whom such power and sovereignty primarily speaks. It is by that law, and not
otherwise, that the legislative, executive, and judicial
agencies which it created exercise such political authority
as they have been permitted to possess. The Constitution speaks for itself in terms so plain that to misunderstand their import is not rationally possible. "We the
people of the United States," it says, "do ordain and
establish this Constitution . . ." Ordain and establish!
These are definite words of enactment, and without more
would stamp what follows witl the dignity and character
of law. The framers of the Constitution, however, were
not content to let the matter rest here, but provided
explicitly-"This Constitution, and the Laws of the
United States which shall be made in Pursuance
thereof; ... shall be the supreme Law of the Land; ... "
The supremacy of the Constitution as law is thus declared withoul qualification. That supremacy is absolute; the suprenacy of a statute enacted by Congress
is not absolute but conditioned upon its being made in
pursuance of the Constitution. And a judicial tribunal,
clothed by that instrument with complete judicial power,
and, therefore, by the very nature of the power, required
to ascertain and apply the law to the facts in every
case or proeceding properly brought for adjudication,
must apply the supreme law and reject the inferior stat-

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Opinion of the Court.

ute whenever the two conflict. In the discharge of that
duty, the opinion of the lawmakers that a statute
passed by them is valid, must be given great weight,
Adkins v. Children's Hospital, 261 U.. S. 525, 544; but
their opinion, or the court's opinion, that the statute
will prove greatly or generally beneficial is wholly irrelevant to the inquiry. Schechter v. United States, 295
U. S. 495, 549-550.
We have set forth, perhaps at unnecessary length, the
foregoing principles, because it seemed necessary to do
so in order to demonstrate that the general purposes
which the act recites, and which, therefore, unless the
recitals be disregarded, Congress undertook to achieve,
are beyond the power of Congress except so far, and only
so far, as they may be realized by an exercise of some
specific power granted by the Constitution. Proceeding
by a process of elimination, which it is not necessary to
follow in detail, we shall find no grant of power which
authorizes Congress to legislate in respect of these general
purposes unless it be found in the commerce clause-and
this we now consider.
Fifth. Since the validity of the act depends upon
whether it is a regulation of interstate commerce, the
nature and extent of the power conferred upon Congress
by the commerce clause becomes the determinative question in this branch .of the case. The commerce clause
vests in Congress the power-"To regulate Commerce
with foreign Nations, and among the several States, and
with the Indian Tribes." The function to be exercised
is that of regulation. The thing to be regulated is the
commerce described. In exercising the authority conferred by this clause of the Constitution, Congress is
powerless to regulate anything which is not commerce,
as it is powerless to do anything about commerce which
is not regulation. We first inquire, then-What is commerce? The term, as this court many times has said, is

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

one of extensive import. No all-embracing definition has
ever been formulated. The question is to be approached
both affirmatively and negatively-that is to say, from
the points of view as to what it includes and what it
excludes.
In Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 189-190, Chief Justice Marshall said:
"Commerce, undoubtedly, is traffic, but it is something
more: it is intercourse. It describes the commercial intercourse between nations, and parts of nations, in all its
branches, and is regulated by prescribing rules for carrying on that intercourse. .. "
As used in the Constitution, the word "commerce" is
the equivalent of the phrase "intercourse for the purposes
of trade," and includes transportation, purchase, sale, and
exchange of commodities between the citizens of the different states. And the power to regulate commerce embraces the instruments by which commerce is carried on.
Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 275, 280; Addyston Pipe &
Steel Co. v. United States, 175 U. S. 211, 241; Hopkins v.
United States, 171 U. S. 578, 597. In Adair v. United
States, 208 U. S. 161, 177, the phrase "Commerce among
the several States" was defined as comprehending "traffic, intercourse, trade, navigation, communication, the
transit of persons and the transmission of messages by
telegraph-indeed, every species of commercial intercourse among the several States." In Veazie v. Moor,
14 How. 568, 573-574, this court, after saying that the
phrase could never be applied to transactions wholly
internal, significantly added: "Nor can it be properly concluded, that, because the products of domestic enterprise
iLi
agriculture or manufactures, or in the arts, may ultimately become the subjects of foreign commerce, that
fhe control of the means or the encouragements by which
criterprise is fostered and protected, is legitimately within
the import of the phrase foreign commerce, or fairly im-

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Opinion of the Court.

plied in any investiture of the power to regulate such
commerce. A pretension as far reaching as this, would
extend to contracts between citizen and citizen of the
same State, would control the pursuits of the planter,
the grazier, the manufacturer, the mechanic, the immense
operations of the collieries and mines and furnaces of the
country; for there is not one of these avocations, the results of which may not become the subjects of foreign
commerce, and be borne either by turnpikes, canals, or
railroads, from point to point within the several States,
towards an ultimate destination, like the one above mentioned. .. ."
The distinction between manufacture anld commerce
was discussed in Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1, 20, 21,
22; and it was said:
"No distinction is more popular to the common mind,
or more clearly expressed in economic and political literature, than that between manufacture and commerce.
Manufacture is transformation-the fashioning of raw
materials into a change of form for use. The functions
of comn'ierce are different.... If it be held that the term
includes the regulation of all such manufactures as are
intended to be the subject of commercial transactions in
the future, it is impossible to deny that it would also
include all productive industries that contemplate the
same thing. The result would be that Congress would
be invested, to the exclusion of the States, with the
power to regulate, not only manufactures, but also agriculture, horticulture, stock raising, domestic fisheries,
mining-in short, every branch of human industry. For
is there one of them that does not contemplate, more
or less clearly, an interstate or f6reign market? Does
not the wheat grower of the Northwest and the cotton
planter of the South, plant, cultivate, and harvest his
crop with an eye on the prices at Liverpool, New York,
and Chicago? The power .being vested in Congress and

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

denied to the States, it would follow as an inevitable
result that the duty would devolve on Congress to regulate all of these delicate, multiform and vital interestsinterests which in their nature are and must be local in
all the details of their successful management."
And then, as though foreseeing the present controversy, the opinion proceeds:
"Any movemenit toward the establishment of rules of
production in this vast country, with its many different
climates and opportunities, could only be at the sacrifice of the peculiar advantages of a large part of the
localities in it, if not of every one of them. On the other
hand, any movement toward the local, detailed and incongruous legislation required by such interpretation
would be about the widest possible departure from the
declared object of the clause in question. Nor this alone.
Even in the exercise of the power contended for, Congress would be confined to the regulation, not of certain
branches of industry, however numerous, but to those
instances in each and every branch where the producer
contemplated

interstate market. . .

ati

A situation

more paralyzing to the-state govermnents, and more provocative of conflicts between the general government
and the States, and less likely to have been what the
framers of the Constitution intended, it would be difficult
to imagine."
Chief Justice Fuller, speaking for this court in United
States v. E. C. Knight Co., 156 U. S. 1, 12, 13, said:
"Doubtless the power to control the manufacture of a
given thing involves in a certain sense the control of its
disposition, but this is a secondary and not the primary
sense; and although the exercise of that power may
result in bringing the operation of commerce into play,
it does not control it, and affects it only incidentally and
indirectly. Commerce succeeds to manufacture, and is
not a part of it.

.

.

CARTER v. CARTER COAL 0).
238

Opinion of the Court.

"It is vital that the independence of the commercial
power and of the police power, and the delimitation between them, however sometimes perplexing, should always be recognized and observed, for while the one furnishes the strongest bond of union, the other is essential
to the preservation of the autonomy of the States as
required by our dual form of government; and acknowledged evils, however grave and urgent they may appear
to be, had better be borne, than the risk be run, in the
effort to suppress them, of more serious consequences by
resort to expedients of even doubtful constitutionality.
"... The regulation of commerce applies to the subjects of commerce and not to matters of internal police.
Contracts to buy, sell, or exchange goods to be transported among the several States, the transportation and
its instrumentalities, and articles bought, sold, or exchanged for the purposes of such transit among the
States, or put in the way of transit, may be regulated,
but this is because they form part of interstate trade or
commerce. The fact that an article is manufactured for
export to another State does not of itself make it an
article of interstate commerce, and the intent of the manufacturer does not determine the time when the article
or product passes from the control of the State and belongs to commerce ....
That commodities produced or manufactured within
a state are intended to be sold or transported outside the
state does not render their production or manufacture
subject to federal regulation under the commerce clause.
As this court said in Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517, 526,
"Though intended for exportation, they may never be
exported; the owner has a perfect right to change his
mind; and until actually put in motion, for some place
out of the State, or committed to the custody of a carrier
for transportation to such place, why may they not be
regarded as still remaining a part of the general mass of

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

property in the State?" It is true that this was said in
respect of a challenged power of the state to impose a
tax; but the query is equally pertinent where the question, as here, is with regard to the power of regulation.
The case was relied upon in Kidd v. Pearson, supra, p. 26.
"The application of the principles above announced," it
was there said, "to the case under consideration leads to
a conclusion against the contention of the plaintiff in
error. The police power of a State is as broad and
plenary as its taxing power; and property within the
State is subject to the operations of the former so long
as it is within the regulating restrictions of the latter."
In Heisler v. Thomas Colliery Co., 260 U. S. 245, 259260, we held that the possibility, or even certainty of
exportation of a product or article from a state did not
determine it to be in interstate commerce before the
commencement of its movement from the state. To hold
otherwise "would nationalize all industries, it would nationalize and withdraw from state jurisdiction and deliver
to federal commercial control the fruits of California and
the South, the wheat of the West and its meats, the cotton of the South, the shoes of Massachusetts and the
woolen industries of other States, at the very inception
of their production or growth, that is, the fruits unpicked,
the cotton and wheat ungathered, hides and flesh of cattle
yet 'on the hoof,' wool yet unshorn, and coal yet unmined, because they are in varying percentages destined
for and surely to be exported to States other than those
of their production."
In Oliver Iron Co. v. Lord, 262 U. S. 172, 178, we said
on the authority of numerous cited cases: "Mining is
not interstate commerce, but, like manufacturing, is a
local business subject to local regulation and taxation.
...Its character in this regard is intriisic, is not affected
by the intended use or disposal of the product, is not
controlled by contractual engagements, and persists even

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Opinion of the Court.

though the business be conducted in close connection
with interstate commerce."
The same rule applies to the production of oil. "Such
production is essentially a mining operation and therefore is not a part of interstate commerce even though the
product obtained is intended to be and in fact is immediately shipped in such commerce." Champlin Rfg. Co. v.
Corporation Commission, 286 U. S. 210, 235. One who
produces or manufactures a commodity, subsequently
sold and shipped by him in interstate commerce, whether
such sale and shipment were originally intended or not,
has engaged in two distinct and separate activities. So
far as he produces or manufactures a commodity, his
business is purely local. So far as he sells and ships, or
contracts to sell and ship, the commodity to customers in
another state, he engages in interstate commerce. In
respect of the former, he is subject only to regulation by
the state; in respect of the latter, to regulation only by
the federal government. Utah Power & L. Co. v. Pfost,
286 U. S. 165, 182. Production is not conmmerce; but a
step in preparation for commerce. Chassaniol v. Greenwood, 291 U. S.584, 587.
We have seen that the word "commerce" is the equivalent of the phrase "intercourse for the purposes of
trade." Plainly, the incidents leading up to and culminating in the mining of coal do not constitute such intercourse. The employment of men, the fixing of their
wages, hours of labor and working conditions, the bargaining in respect of these things--whether carried on
separately or ,collectively-each and all constitute intercourse for the purposes of production, not of trade. The
latter is a thing apart from the relation of employer and
employee, which in all producing occupations is purely
local in character. . Extraction of coal from the mine is
the aim and the completed result of local activities.
Commerce in the coal mined is not brought into being by

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

force of these activities, but by negotiations, agreements,
and circumstances entirely apart from production. Mining brings the subject matter of commerce into existence.
Commerce disposes of it.
A consideration of the foregoing, and of many cases
which might be added to those already cited, renders
inescapable the conclusion that the effect of the labor
provisions of the act, including those in respect of minimum wages, wage agreements, collective bargaining, and
the Labor Board and its powers, primarily falls upon production and not upon commerce; and confirms the further resulting conclusion that production is a purely
local activity. It follows that none of these essential
antecedents of production constitutes a transaction in or
forms any part of interstate commerce. Schechter Corp.
v. Unitcd States, supra, p. 542 et seq. Everything which
moves in interstate commerce has had a local origin.
Without local production somewhere, interstate commerce, as now carried on, would practically disappear.
Nevertheless, the local character of mining, of manufacturing and of crop growing is a fact, and remains a
fact, whatever may be done with the products.
Certain decisions of this court, superficially considered,
seem to lend support to the defense of the act now under
review. But upon examination, they will be seen to be
inapposite. Thus, Coronado Coal Co. v. United Mine
Workers, 268 U. S. 295, 310, and kindred cases, involved
conspiracies to restrain interstate commerce in violation
of the Anti-trust laws. The acts of the persons involved
were local in character, but the intent was to restrain interstate commerce, and the means employed were calculated to carry that intent into effect. Interstate commerce was the direct object of attack; and the restraint
of such commerce was the necessary oonsequence of the
acts and the immediafe end in view. Bedford Stone Co.

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
Opinion of the Court.

238

v. Stone Cutters Assn., 274 U. S. 37, 46. The applicable
law was concerned not with the character of the acts or of
the means employed, which might be in and of themselves purely local, but with the intent and direct operation of those acts and means upon interstate commerce.
"The mere reduction in the supply of an article," this
court said in the Coronado Co. case, supra, p. 310, "to be
shipped in interstate commerce by the illegal or tortious
prevention of its manufacture or production is ordinarily
an indirect and remote obstruction to that commerce.
But when the intent of those unlawfully preventing the
manufacture or production is shown to be to restrain
or control the supply entering and moving in interstate
commerce, or the price of it in interstate markets, their
action is a direct violation of the Anti-Trust Act."
Another group of cases, of which Swift & Co. v. United
States, 196 U. S. 375, is an example, rest upon the circumstance that the acts in question constituted direct
interferences with the "flow" of commerce among the
states. In the Swift case, livestock was consigned and
delivered to stockyards-not as a place of final destination, but, as the court said in Stafford v. Wallace, 258
U. S. 495, 516, "a throat through which the current
flows." The sales which ensued merely changed the
private interest in the subject of the current without
interfering with its continuity. Industrial Assn. v.
United States, 268 U. S. 64, 79. It was nowhere suggested in these cases that the interstate commerce power
extended to the growth or production of the things
which, after production, entered the flow. If the court
had held that the raising of the cattle, which were involved in the Swift case, including the wages paid to and
working conditions of the herders and others employed
in the business, could be regulated by Congress, that
decision and decisions holding similarly would be in
P5773--:16 --

20

"

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

point; for it is that situation, and not the one with which
the court actually dealt, which here concerns us.
The distinction suggested is illustrated by the decision
in Arkadelphia Milling Co. v. St. Louis S. TV. Ry. Co.,
249 U. S. 134, 150-152. That case dealt with orders of
a state commission fixing railroad rates. One of the
questions considered was whether certain shipments of
rough material from the forest to mills in the same state
for manufacture, followed by the forwarding of the finished product to points outside the state, was a continuous movement in interstate commerce. It appeared that
when the rough material reached the mills it was manufactured into various articles which were stacked or
placed in kilns to dry, the processes occupying several
months. Markets for the manufactured articles were
almost entirely in other states or in foreign countries.
About 957,/ of the finished articles was made for outbound shipment. When the rough material was shipped
to the mills, it was expected by the mills that this percentage of the finished articles would be so sold and
shipped outside the state. And all of them knew and
intended that this 95%5 of the finished product would be
so sold and shipped. This court held that the state order
did not interfere with interstate commerce, and that the
Swift case was not in point; as it is not in point here.
The restricted field covered by the Swift and kindred
cases is illustrated by the Schechter case, supra, p. 543.
There the commodity in question, although shipped from
another state, had come to rest in the state of its destination, and, as the court pointed out., was no longer in a
current or flow of interstate commerce. The Swift doctrine was rejected as inapposite. In the Schechter case
the flow had ceased. Here it had not begun. The difference is not one of substance. The applicable principle
is the same.

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Opinion of the Court.

But ยง 1 (the preamble) of the act now under review
declares that all production and distribution of bituminous coal "bear upon and directly affect its interstate
commerce"; and that regulation thereof is imperative
for the protection of such commerce. The contention of
the government is that the labor provisions of the act
may be sustained in that view.
That the production of every commodity intended for
interstate sale and transportation has some effect upon
interstate commerce may be, if it has not already been,
freely granted; and we are brought to the final and decisive inquiry, whether here that effect is direct, as the
"preamble" recites, or indirect. The distinction is not
formal, but substantial in the highest degree, as we
pointed out in the Schechter case, supra, p. 546, et seq.
"If the commerce clause were construed," we there said,
"to reach all enterprises and transactions which could
be said to have an indirect effect upon interstate commerce, the federal authority would embrace practically
all the activities of the people and the authority of the
State over its domestic concerns would exist only by sufferance of the federal government. Indeed, on such a
theory, even the development of the State's commercial
facilities would be subject to federal control." It was also
pointed out, p. 548, that "the distinction between direct
and indirect effects of intrastate transactions upon interstate commerce must be recognized as a fundamental one,
essential to the maintenance of our constitutional
system."
Whether the effect of a given activity or condition is
direct or indirect is not always easy to determine. The
word "direct" implies that the activity or condition invoked or blamed shall operate proximately-not mediately, remotely, or collaterally-to produce the effect.
It connotes the absence of an efficient intervening agency

308

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

or condition. And the extent of the effect bears no
logical relation to its character. The distinction between
a direct and an indirect effect turns, not upon the magnitude of either the cause or the effect, but entirely upon
the manner in which the effect has been brought about.
If the production by one man of a single ton of coal intended for interstate sale and shipment, and actually so
sold and shipped, affects interstate commerce indirectly,
the effect does not become direct by multiplying the tonnage, or increasing the number of men employed, or
adding to the expense or complexities of the business, or
by all combined. It is quite true that rules of law are
sometimes qualified by considerations of degree, as the
government argues. But the matter of degree has no
bearing upon the question here, since that question is
not-What is the extent of the local activity or condition, or the extent of the effect produced upon interstate
commerce? but-What is the relation between the activity or condition and th6 effect?
Much stress is put upon the evils which come from
the struggle between employers and employees over the
matter of wages, working conditions, the right of collective bargaining, etc., and the resulting strikes, curtailinent and irregularity of production and effect on prices;
and it. is insisted that interstate commerce is greatly
affected thereby. But, in addition to what has just been
said, the conclusive answer is that the evils are all local
evils over which the federal government has no legislative control. The relation of employer and employee is
a local relation. At common law, it is one of the domestic relations. The wages are paid for the doing of local
work. Working conditions are obviously local conditions. The employees are not engaged in or about commerce, but exclusively in producing a commodity. And
tie controversies and evils, which it is the object of the

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Opinion of the Court.

act to regulate and minimize, are local controversies and
evils affecting local-work undertaken to accomplish that
local result. Such effect as they may have upon commerce, however extensive it may be, is secondary and
indirect. An increase in the greatness of the effect adds
to its importance. It does not alter its character.
The government's contentions in defense of the labor
provisions are really disposed of adversely by our decision
in the Schechter case, supra. The only perceptible difference between that case and this is that in the Schechter
case the federal power was asserted with respect to commodities which had come to rest after their interstate
transportation; while here, the case deals with commodities at rest before interstate commerce has begun. That
difference is without significance. The federal regulatory power ceases when interstate commercial intercourse
ends; and, correlatively, the power does not attach until
interstate commercial intercourse begins. There is no
basis in law or reason for applying different rules to the
two situations. No such distinction can be found in
anything said in the Schechter case. On the contrary,
the situations were recognized as akin. In the opinion, at
page 546, after calling attention to the fact that if the
commerce clause could be construed to reach transactions
having an indirect effect upon interstate commerce the
federal authority would embrace practically all the activities of the people, and the authority of the state over
its domestic concerns would exist only by sufferance of
the federal government, we said: "Indeed, on such a
theory, even the development of the State's commercial
facilities would be subject to federal control." And
again, after pointing out that hours and wages have no
direct relation to interstate commerce and that if the
federal government had power to determine the wages
and hours of employees in the internal commerce of a
state because of their relation to cost and prices and their

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

indirect effect upon interstate commerce, we said, p. 549:
"All the processes of production and distribution that
enter into cost could likewise be controlled. If the cost
of doing an intrastate business is in itself the permitted
object of federal control, the extent of the regulation of
cost would be a question of discretion and not of power."
A reading of the entire opinion makes clear, what we
now declare, that the want of power on the part of the
federal government is the same whether the wages, hours
of service, and working conditions, and the bargaining
about them, are related to production before interstate
commerce has begun, or to sale and distribution after it
has ended.
Sixth. That the act, whatever it may be in form, in
fact is compulsory clearly appears. We have already discussed ยง 3, which imposes the excise tax as a penalty
to compel "acceptance" of the code. Section 14 provides
that the United States shall purchase no bituminous coal
produced at any mine where the producer has not complied with the provisions of the code; and that each contract made by the United States shall contain a provision
that the contractor will buy no bituminous coal to use on,
or in the carrying out of, such contract unless the producer be a member of the code, as certified by the coal
commission. In the light of these provisions we come to
a consideration of subdivision (g) of Part III of ยง 4,
dealing with "Labor Relations."
That subdivision delegates the power to fix maximum
hours of labor to a part of the producers and the minersnamely, "the producers of more than two-thirds of the
annual national tonnage production for the preceding
calendar year" and "more than one-half of the mine
workers employed"; and to producers of more than twothirds of the district annual tonnage during the preceding
calendar year and a majority of the miners, there is delegated the power to fix minimum wages for the district

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Opinion of the Court.

or group of districts. The effect, in respect of wages and
hours, is to subject the dissentient minority, either of
producers or miners or both, to the will of the stated
majority, since, by refusing to submit, the minority at
once incurs the hazard of enforcement of the drastic
compulsory provisions of the act to which we have referred. To "accept," in these circumstances, is not to
exercise a choice, but to surrender to force.
The power conferred upon the majority is, in effect, the
power to regulate the affairs of an unwilling minority.
This is legislative delegation in its most obnoxious form;
for it is not even delegation to an official or an official
body, presumptively disinterested, but to private persons
whose interests may be and often are adverse to the
interests of others in the same business. The record
shows that the conditions of competition differ among
the various localities. In some, coal dealers compete
among themselves. In other localities, they also compete
with the mechanical production of electrical energy and
of natural gas. Some coal producers favor the code;
others oppose it; and the record clearly indicates that
this diversity of view arises from their conflicting and
even antagonistic interests. The difference between producing coal and regulating its production is, of course,
fundamental. The former is a private activity; the latter is necessarily a governmental function, since, in the
very nature of things, one person may not be entrusted
with the power to regulate the business of another, and
especially of a competitor. And a statute which attempts
to confer such power undertakes an intolerable and unconstitutional interference with personal liberty and private property. The delegation is so clearly arbitrary, and
so clearly a denial of rights safeguarded by the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment, that it is unnecessary
to do more than refer to decisions of this court which
foreclose the question. Schechter Corp. v. United States,

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

295 U. S. at p. 537; Eubank v. Richmond, 226 U. S. 137,
143; Seattle Trust Co. v. Roberge, 278 U. S. 116, 121-122.
Seventh. Finally, we are brought to the price-fixing
provisions of the code. The necessity of considering the
question of their constitutionality will depend upon
whether they are separable from the labor provisions so
that they can stand independently., Section 15 of the
act provides:
"If any provision of this Act, or the application thereof to any person or circumstances, is held invalid, the
remainder of the Act and the application of such provisions to other persons or circumstances shall not be
affected thereby."
In the absence of such a provision, the presumption is
that the legislature intends an act to be effective as an
entirety-that is to say, the rule is against the mutilation
of A statute; and if any provision be unconstitutional,
the presumption is that the remaining provisions fall
with it. The effect of the statute is to reverse this presumption in favor of inseparability and create the opposite one of separability. Under the non-statutory rule, the
burden is upon the supporter of the legislation to show
the separability of the provisions involved. Under the
statutory rule, the burden is shifted to the assailant to
show their inseparability. But under either rule, the
determination, in the end, is reached by applying the
same test-namely, What was the intent of the lawmakers?
Under the statutory rule, the presumption must be
overcome by considerations which establish "the clear
probability that the invalid part being eliminated the
legislature would not have been satisfied witA what remains," Williams v. Standard Oil Co., 278 U. 8. 235, 241
et seq.; or, as stated in Utah Power & L. Co. v. Pfost, 286
U. S. 165, 184-185, "the clear probability that the legislature would not have been satisfied with the statute un-

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Opinion of the Court.

less it had included the invalid part." Whether the provisions of a statute are so interwoven that one being held
invalid the others must fall, presents a question of statutory construction and of legislative intent, to the determination of which the statutory provision becomes an aid.
"But it is an aid merely; not an inexorable command."
Dorchy v. Kansas, 264 U. S. 286, 290. The presumption
in favor of separability does not authorize the court to
give the statute "an effect altogether different from that
sought by the measure viewed as a whole." Railroad
Retirement Board v. Alton R. Co., 295 U. S. 330, 362.
The statutory aid to construction in no way alters the
rule that in order to hold one part of a statute unconstitutional and uphold another part as separable, they must
not be mutually dependent upon one another. Perhaps
a fair approach to a solution of the problem is to suppose that while the bill was pending in Congress a motion
to strike out the labor provisions had prevailed, and to
inquire whether, in that event, the statute should be so
construed as to justify the conclusion that Congress, notwithstanding, probably would not have passed the pricefixing provisions of the code.
Section 3 of the act, which provides that no producer
shall, by accepting the code or the drawback of taxes,
be estopped froWn contesting the constitutionality of any
provision of the code, is thought to aid the separability
clause. But the effect of that provision is simply to permit the producer to challenge any provision of the code
despite his acceptance of the code or the drawback. It
seems not to have anything to do with the question of
separability.
With the foregoing principles in mind, let us examine
the act itself. The title of the act and the preamble
demonstrate, as we have already seen, that Congress
desired to accomplish certain general purposes therein
recited. To that end it created a commission, with man-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

datory directions to formulate into a working agreement
the provisions set forth in ยง 4 of the act. That being
done, the result is a code. Producers accepting and operating under the code are to be known as code members;
and ยง .4 specifically requires that, in order to carry out
the policy of the act, "the code shall contain the following conditions, provisions, and obligations . . ." which are
then set forth. No power is vested in the commission, in
formulating the code, to omit any of these conditions,
provisions, or obligations. The mandate to include them
embraces all of them. Following the requirement just
quoted, and, significantly, in the same section (International Textbook Co. v. Pigg,217 U. S. 91, 112-113) under
appropriate headings, the price-fixing and labor-regulating provisions are set out in great detail. These provisions, plainly meant to operate together and not separately, constitute the means designated to bring about the
stabilization of bituminous-coal production, and thereby
to regulate or affect interstate commerce in such coal.
The first clause of the title is: "To stabilize the bituminous coal-mining industry and promote its interstate
commerce."1
Thus, the primary contemplation of the act is stabilization of the industry through the regulation of labor
and the regulation of prices; for, since both were adopted,
we must conclude that both were thought essential. The
regulations of labor on the one hand and prices on the
other furnish mutual aid and support; and their associated force-not one or the other but both combinedwas deemed by Congress to be necessary to achieve the
end sought. The statutory mandate for a code upheld
by two legs at once suggests the improbability that Congress would have assented to a code supported by only
one.
This seems plain enough; for Congress must have been
conscious of the fact that elimination of the labor provi-

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Opinion of the Court.

sions from the act would seriously impair, if not destroy,
the force and usefulness of the price provisions. The
interdependence of wages and prices is manifest. Approximately two-thirds of the cost of producing a ton
of coal is represented by wages. Fair prices necessarily
depend upon the cost of production; and since wages
constitute so large a proportion of the cost, prices cannot be fixed with any proper relation to cost without
taking into consideration this major element. If one of
them becomes uncertain, uncertainty with respect to the
other necessarily ensues.
So much is recognized by the code itself. The introductory clause of Part III declares that the conditions
respecting labor relations are "To effectuate the purposes of this Act." And subdivision (a) of Part II,
quoted in the forepart of this opinion, reads in part:
"In order to sustain the stabilization of wages, working
conditions, and maximum hours of labor, said prices shall
be established so as to yield a return per net ton for each
district in a minimum price area, . . . equal as nearly
as may be to the weighted average of the total costs, per
net ton . . ." Thus wages, hours of labor, and working
conditions are to be so adjusted as to effectuate the purposes of the act; and prices are to be so regulated as to
stabilize wages, working conditions, and hours of labor
which have been or are to be fixed under the labor pro-.
visions. The two are so woven together as to render the
probability plain enough that uniform prices, in the
opinion of Congress, could not be fairly fixed or effectively regulated, without also regulating these elements
of labor which enter so largely into the cost of
production.
These two sets of requirements are not like a collection
of bricks, some of which may be taken away without
disturbing the others, but rather are like the interwoven
threads constituting the warp and woof of a fabric, one

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

set of which cannot be removed without fatal consequences to the whole. Paraphrasing the words of this
court in Butts v. Merchants Transportation Co., 230
U. S. 126, 133, we inquire-What authority has this
court, by construction, to convert the manifest purpose
of Congress to regulate production by the mutual operation and interaction of fixed wages and fixed prices into a
purpose to regulate the subject by the operation of the
latter alone? Are we at liberty to say from the fact
that Congress has adopted an entire integrated system
that it probably would have enacted a doubtfullyeffective fraction of the system? The words of the
concurring opinion in the Schechter case, 295 U. S. at
pages 554-555, are pertinent in reply. "To take from
this code the provisions as to wages and the hours of
labor is to destroy it altogether. . . . Wages and the
hours of labor are essential features of the plan, its very
bone and sinew. There is no opportunity in such circumstances for the severance of the infected parts in the
hope of saving the remainder." The conclusion is unavoidable that the price-fixing provisions of the code
are so related to and dependent upon the labor provisions
as conditions, considerations or compensations, as to
make it clearly probable that the latter being held bad,
the former would not have been passed. The fall of
the latter, therefore, carries down with it the former.
International Textbook Co. v. Pigg, supra, p. 113; Warren v. Charlestown, 2 Gray [Mass.] 84, 98-99.
The price-fixing provisions of the code are thus disposed of without coming to the question of their constitutionality; but neither this disposition of the matter,
nor anything we have said, is to be taken as indicating.
that the court is of opinion that these provisions, if
separately enacted, could be sustained.
If there be in the act provisions, other than those we
have considered, that may stand independently, the

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Opinion of the

CHIEF JUSTICE.

question of their validity is left for future determination
when, if ever, that question shall be presented for
consideration.
The decrees in Nos. 636, 649, and 650 must be reversed
and the causes remanded for further consideration in
conformity with this opinion. The decree in No. 651 will
be affirmed.
It is so ordered.
Separate opinion of MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES.
I agree that the stockholders were entitled to bring
their suits; that, in view of the question whether any
part of the Act could be sustained, the suits were not
premature; that the so-called tax is not a real tax, but
a penalty; that the constitutional power of the Federal
Government to impose this penalty must rest upon the
commerce clause, as the Govermnent concedes; that production-in this case mining-which precedes commerce,
is not itself commerce; and that the power to regulate
commerce among the several States is not a power to
regulate industry within the State.
The power to regulate interstate commerce embraces
the power to protect that commerce from injury, whatever may be the source of the dangers which threaten
it, and to adopt any appropriate means to that end.
Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 51. 'Congress thus has adequate authority to maintain the orderly
conduct of interstate commerce and to provide for the
peaceful settlement of disputes which threaten it. Texas
& N. 0. R. Co. v. Railway Clerks, 281 U. S. 548, 570.
But Congress may not use this protective authcrity as
a pretext for the exertion of power to regulate activities
and relations within the States which affect interstate
commerce only indirectly. Otherwise, in view of the
multitude of indirect effects, Congress in its discretion

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the

CHIEF JUSTICE.

298 U.S.

could assume control of virtually all the activities of the
people to the subversion of the fundamental principle of
the Constitution. If the people desire to give Congress the power to regulate industries within the State,
and the relations of employers and employees in those
industries, they are at liberty to declare their will in the
appropriate manner, but it is not for the Court to amend
the Constitution by judicial decision.
I also agree that subdivision (g) of Part III of the
prescribed Code is invalid upon three counts: (1) It attempts a broad delegation of legislative power to fix
hours and wages without standards or limitation. The
Government invokes the analogy of legislation which becomes effective on the happening of a specified event,
and says that in this case the event is the agreement of
a certain proportion of producers and employees, whereupon the other producers and employees become subject
to legal obligations accordingly. I think that the argument is unsound and is pressed to the point where the
principle would be entirely destroyed. It would remove
all restrictions upon the delegation of legislative power,
as the making of laws could thus be referred to any designated officials or private persons whose orders or agreements would be treated as "events," with the result that
they would be invested with the force of law having
penal sanctions. (2) The provision permits a group of
producers and employees, according to their own views
of expediency, to make rules as to hours and wages for
other producers and employees who were not parties to
the agreement. Such a provision, apart from the mere
question of the delegation of legislative power, is not in
accord with the requirement of due process of law which
under the Fifth Amendment dominates the regulations
which Congress may impose. (3) The provision goes
beyond any proper measure of protection of interstate

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Opinion of the

319

CHIEF JUSTICE.

commerce and attempts a broad regulation of industry
within the State.
But that is not the whole case. The Act also provides

for the regulation of the prices of bituminous coal sold
in interstate commerce and prohibits unfair methods of
competition in interstate commerce. Undoubtedly
transactions in carrying on interstate commerce are subject to the federal power to regulate that commerce and
the control of charges and the protection of fair competition in that commerce are familiar illustrations of the
exercise of the power, as the Interstate Commerce Act,
the Packers and Stockyards Act, and the Anti-Trust
Acts abundantly show. The Court has repeatedly stated
that the power to regulate interstate commerce among
the several States is supreme and plenary. Minnesota
Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 398. It is "complete in itself,
and may be exercised to its utmost extent, and acknowledges no limitations, other than are prescribed in the
Constitution." Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 196. We
are not at liberty to deny to the Congress, with respect
to interstate commerce, a power commensurate with that
enjoyed by the States in the regulation of their internal
commerce. See Nebbia v. New York,,291 U. S. 502.
Whether the policy of fixing prices of commodities sold
in interstate commerce is a sound policy is not for our
consideration. The question of that policy, and of its
particular applications, is for Congress. The .exercise of
the power of regulation is subject to the constitutional
restriction of the due process clause, and if in fixing rates,
prices or conditions of competition, that requirement is
transgressed, the judicial power may be invoked to the
end that the constitutional limitation may be maintained.
Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Union Pacific R. Co.,
222 U. S. 541, 547; St. Joseph Stock Yards Co. v: United
States, ante, p. 38.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the

CHIEF JUSTICE.

298 U.S.

In the legislation before us, Congress has set up elaborate machinery for the fixing of prices of bituminous coal
sold in interstate commerce. That provision is attacked
in limine. Prices have not yet been fixed. If fixed, they
may not be contested. If contested, the Act provides
for review of the administrative ruling. If in fixing
prices, due process is violated by arbitrotry, capricious or
confiscatory action, judicial remedy is available. If an
attempt is made to fix prices for sales in intrastate
commerce, that attempt will also be subject to attack by
appropriate action. In that relation it should be noted
that in the Carter cases, the court below found that substantially all the coal mined by the Carter Coal Company
is sold f. o. b. mines and is transported into States other
than those in which it is produced for the purpose of
filling orders obtained from purchasers in such States.
Such transactions are in interstate commerce. Savage v.
Jones, 225 U. S. 501, 520. The court below also found
that-"the interstate distribution and sale and the intrastate distribution and sale" of the coal are so "intimately
and inextricably connected" that "the regulation of interstate transactions of distribution and sale cannot be
accomplished effectively without discrimination against
interstate commerce unless transactions of intrastate distribution and sale be regulated." Substantially the same
situation is disclosed in the Kentucky cases. In that relation, the Government invokes the analogy of transportation rates. Shreveport Case, 234 U. S. 342; Wisconsin
Railroad Comm'n v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co., 257 U. S.
563. The question will be the subject of consideration
when it arises in any particular application of the Act.
Upon what ground, then, can it besaid that this plan
for the regulation of transactions in interstate commerce
in coal is beyond the constitutional power of Congress?
The Court reaches that conclusion in the view that the

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
Opinion of the

238

CHIEF JUSTICE.

invalidity of the labor provisions requires us to condemn
the Act in its entirety. I am unable to concur in that
opinion. I think that the express provisions of the Act
preclude such a finding of inseparability.
This is admittedly a question of statutory construction; and hence we must search for the intent of Congress. And in seeking that intent we should not fail to
give full weight to what Congress itself has said upon
the very point. The Act provides (ยง 15):
"If any provision of this Act, or the application thereof
to any person or circumstances, is held invalid, the remainder of the Act and the application of such provisions
to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected
thereby."
That is a flat declaration against treating the provisions of the Act as inseparable. It is a declaration which
Congress was competent to make. It is a declaration
which reverses the presumption of indivisibility and creates an opposite presumption. Utah Power & Light Co.
v. Pfost, 286 U. S. 165, 184.
The above quoted provision does not stand alone.
Congress was at pains to make a declaration of similar
import with respect to the provisions of the Code (ยง 3):
"No producer shall by reason of his acceptance of the
code provided for in section 4 or of the drawback of taxes
provided in section 3 of this Act be held to be precluded
or estopped from contesting the constitutionality of any
provision of said code, or its validity as applicable to
such producer."
This provision evidently contemplates, when read with
the one first quoted, that a stipulation of the Code may
be found to be unconstitutional and yet that its invalidity shall not be regarded as affecting the obligations
attaching to the remainder.
I do not think that the question of separability should
be determined by trying to imagine what Congress would
6

65773 -- 3 --

21

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the

CIIEF JUSTICE.

298 U.S.

have done if certain prov'isions found to be invalid were
excised. That, if taken broadly, would lead us into a
realm of pure speculation. Who can tell amid the host
bf divisive influences playing upon the legislative body
what its reaction would have been to a particular excision required by a finding of invalidity? The question
does not call for speculation of that sort but rather for
an inquiry whether the provisions are inseparable by
virtue of inherent character. That is, when Congress
states that the provisions of the Act are not inseparable
and that the invalidity of any provision shall not affect
others, we should not hold that the provisions are inseparable unless their nature, by reason of an inextricable
tie, demands that conclusion.
All that is said in the preamble of the Act, in the
directions to the Commission which the Act creates, and
in the stipulations of the Code, is subject to the explicit
direction of Congress that the provisions of the statute
shall not be treated as forming an indivisible unit. The
fact that the various requirements furnish to each other
mutual aid and support does not establish indivisibility.
The purpose of Congress, plainly expressed, was that if
a part of that aid were lost, the whole should not be lost.
Congress desired that the Act and Code should be operative so far as they met the constitutional test. Thus
we are brought, as I have said, to the question whether,
despite this purpose of Congress, we must treat the
marketing provisions and the labor provisions as inextricably tied together because of their nature. I find no
such tie. The labor provisions are themselves separated
and placed in a separate part (Part III) of the Code. It
seems quite clear that the validity of the entire Act
cannot depend upon the provisions as to hours and wages
in paragraph (g) of Part III. For what was contemplated by that paragraph is manifestly independent of

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Opinion of the

CHIEF JUSTICE.

the other machinery of the Act, as it cannot become
effective unless the specified proportion of producers and
employees reach an agreement as to particular wages and
hours. And the provision for collective bargaining in
paragraphs (a) and (b) of Part III is apparently made
separable from the Code itself by ยง 9 of the Act, providing, in substance, that the employees of all producers
shall have the right of collective bargaining even when
producers do not accept or maintain the Code.
The marketing provisions (Part II) of the Code naturally form a separate category. The interdependence of
wages and prices is no clearer in the coal business than in
transportation. But the broad regulation of rates in
order to stabilize transportation conditions has not carried with it the necessity of fixing wages. Again, the
requirement, in paragraph (a) of Part II that district
boards shall establish prices so as to yield a prescribed
"return per net ton" for each district in a minimum price
area, in order "to sustain the stabilization of wages,
working conditions and maximum hours of labor," does
not link the marketing provisions to the labor provisions
by an unbreakable bond. Congress evidently desired
stabilization through both the provisions relating to
marketing and those relating to labor, but the setting up
of the two sorts of requirements did not make the one
dependent upon the validity of the other. It is apparent that they are not so interwoven that they cannot
have separate operation and effect. The marketing provisions in relation to interstate commerce can be carried
out as provided in Part II without regard to the labor
provisions contained in Part III. That fact, in the light
of the congressional declaration of separability, should
be considered of controlling importance.
In this view, the Act, and the Code for which it provides, may be sustained in relation to the provisions for

324

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of CARDOZO, J.

298 U.S.

marketing in interstate commerce, and the decisions of
the courts below, so far as they accomplish that result,
should be affirmed.
MR. JUsTIcE CARDOZO (dissenting in Nos. 636, 649 and
650, and in No. 651 concurring in the result).
My conclusions compendiously stated are these:
(a) Part II of the statute sets up a valid system of
price-fixing as applied to transactions in interstate commerce and to those in intrastate commerce where interstate commerce is directly or intimately affected. The
prevailing opinion holds nothing to the contrary.
(b) Part II, with its system of price-fixing, is separable
from Part III, which contains the provisions as to labor
considered and condemned in the opinion of the court.
(c) Part II being valid, the complainants are under
a duty to come in under the code, and are subject to a
penalty if they persist in a refusal.
(d) The suits are premature in so far as they seek a
judicial declaration as to the validity or invalidity of the
regulations in respect of labor embodied in Part III. No
opinion is expressed either directly or by implication as
to those aspects of the case. It will be time enough to
consider them when there is the threat or even the possibility of imminent enforcement. If that time shall arrive, protection will be given by clear provisions of the
statute (9 3) against any adverse inference flowing from
delay or acquiescence.
(e) The suits are not premature to the extent that
they are intended to avert a present wrong, though the
wrong upon analysis will be found to be unreal.
The complainants are asking for a decree to restrain
the enforcement of the statute in all or any of its provisions on the ground that it is a void enactment, and void
in all its parts. If some of its parts are valid and are
separable from others that are or may be void, and if
the parts upheld and separated are sufficient to sustain a

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Opinion of CAnozo, J.

regulatory penalty, the injunction may not issue and
hence the suits must fail. There is no need when that
conclusion has been reached to stir a step beyond. Of
the provisions not considered, some may never take effect, at least in the absence of future happenings which
are still uncertain and contingent. Some may operate
in one way as to one group and in another way as to
others according to particular conditions as yet unknown
and unknowable. A decision in advance as to the operation and validity of separable provisions in varying contingencies is premature and hence unwise. "The court
will not 'anticipate a question of constitutional law in
advance of the necessity of deciding it.' Steamship Co.
v. Emigration Commissioners, 113 U. S. 33, 39; Abramns
v. Van Schaick, 293 U. S. 188; Wilshire Oil Co. v. United
States, 295 U. S. 100. 'It is not the habit of the Court
to decide questions of a constitutional nature unless absolutely necessary to a decision of the case.' Burton v.
United States, .196 U. S. 283, 295." Per Brandeis, J.,
in Ashwander y. Tennessee Valley Authority, 297 U. S.
288, 346. The moment we perceive that there are valid
and separable portions, broad enough to lay the basis
for a regulatory penalty, inquiry should halt. The complainants must conform to whatever is upheld, and as to
parts excluded friom the decision, especially if the parts
are not presently effective, must make their protest in
the future when the occasion or the need arises.
First: I am'satisfied that the Act is within the power
of the ceniral, government in so far as it provides for
minimum and maximum prices upon sales of bituminous
coal in the transaction's of interstate commerce and in
those of intrastate commerce where interstate commerce
is directly or intimately affected. Whether it is valid
also in other provisions that have been considered and
condenmed in the opinion of the court, I do not find it
necessary to determine at this time. Silence must not
be taken as importing acquiescence. Much would have

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of CARDOZO, J.

298 U.S.

to be written if the subject, even as thus restricted were
to be explored through all its implications, historical
and economic as well as strictly legal. The fact that the
prevailing opinion leaves the price provisions open for
consideration in the future makes it appropriate to forego a fullness of elaboration that might otherwise be necessary. As a system of price fixing the Act is challenged
upon three grounds: (1) because the governance of prices
is not within the commerce clause; (2) because it is a
denial of due process forbidden by the Fifth Amendment;
and (3) because the standards for administrative action
are indefinite, with the result that there has been an unlawful delegation of legislative power.
(1) With reference to the first objection, the obvious
and sufficient answer is, so far as the Act is directed to
interstate transactions, that sales made in such conditions
constitute interstate commerce, and do not merely
"affect" it. Dahke-Walker Millihg Co. v. Bondurant,
257 U. S. 282, 290; Flanagan v. Federal Coal Co., 267
U. S. 222, 225; Lemke v. Farmers Grain Co., 258 U. S.
50, 60; Public Utilities Comm'n v. Attleboro Steam &
Electric Co., 273 U. S. 83, 90; Federal Trade Comm'n v.
Pacific States Paper Trade Assn., 273 U. S. 52, 64. To

regulate the price for such transactions is to regulate
commerce itself, and not alone its antecedent conditions
or its ultimate consequences. The very act of sale is limited and governed. Prices in interstate transactions may
not be regulated by the states. Baldwin v. Seelig, 294
U. S. 511. They must therefore be subject to the power
of the nation unless they are to be withdrawn altogether
from governmental supervision. Cf. Head Money Cases,
112 U. S. 580, 593; Story, Commentaries on the Constitution, ยง 1082. If such a vacuum were permitted, many
a public evil incidental to interstate transactions would
be left without a remedy. This does not mean, of course,
that prices may be fixed for arbitrary reasons or in an
arbitrary way. The commerce power of the nation is

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Opinion

of CARDOZO,

J.

subject to the requirement of'due process like the police
power of the states. Hanmilton v. Kentucky Distilleries
Co,., 251 U. S. 146, 156; cf. Brooks v. United States, 267
U. S. 432, 436, 437; Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S. 502,
524. Heed must be given to similar considerations of
social benefit or detriment in marking the division between reason and oppression. The evidence is overwhelming that Congress did not ignore those considerations in the adoption of this Act. What is to be said in
that regard may conveniently be postponed to the part of
the opinion dealing with the Fifth Amendment.
Regulation of prices being an exercise of the commerce
power in respect of interstate transactions, the question
remains whether it comes within that power as applied
to intrastate sales where interstate prices are directly or
intimately affected. Mining and agriculture and' manufacture are not interstate commerce considered by themselves, yet their relation to that commerce may be such
that, for the protection of the one there is need to regulate the other. Schechter Poultry Corp. v. United States,
295 U. S. 495, 544, 545, 546. Sometimes it is said that
the relation must be "direct" to bring that. power into
play. In many circumstances such a description will be
sufficiently precise to meet the needs of the occasion.
But a great principle of constitutional law is not susceptible of comprehensive statement in an adjective.
The underlying thought is merely this, that "the law is
not indifferent to considerations of degree." Schechter
Poultry Corp. v. United States, supra, concurring opinion,
p. 554. It cannot be indifferent to them without an expansion of. the commerce clause that would absorb or
imperil the reserved powers of the states. At times, as
in the case cited, the waves of causation will have radiated so far that their undulatory motion, if discernible
at all, will be too faint or obscure, too broken by crosscurrents, to be heeded by the law. In such circum-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of CARDOZO, J.

298 U.S.

stances the holding is not direpted at prices or wages
considered in the abstract, but at prices or wages
in particular conditions. The relation may be tenuous
or the opposite according to the facts. Always the setting
of the facts is to be viewed if one would know the closeness of the tie. Perhaps, if one group of adjectives is
to be chosen in preference to another, "intimate" and "remote" will be found to be as good as any. At all events,
"direct" and "indirect," even if accepted as sufficient,
must not be read too narrowly. Cf. Stone, J., in Di Santo
v. Pennsylvania, 273 U. S. 34, 44. A survey of the cases
shows that the words have been interpreted with suppleness of adaptation and flexibility of meaning. The
power is as broad as the need that evokes it.
One of the most common and typical instances of a
relation characterized as direct has been that between
interstate and intrastate rates for carriers by rail where
the local rates are so low as to divert business unreasonably from interstate competitors. In such circumstances
C6ngress has the power to protect the business of its
carriers against disintegrating encroachments. Shreveport Case, 234 U. S. 342, 351, 352; Wisconsin Railroad
Conrn'n v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563, 588'
United States v. Louisiana, 290 U. S. 70, 75; Florida v.
United States, 292 U. S. 1. To be sure, the relation even
then may be characterized as indirect if one is nice or
over-literal in the choice of words. Strictly speaking, the
intrastate rates have a primary effect upon the intrastate
traffic and not upon any other, though the repercussions
of the competitive system may lead to secondary consequences affecting interstate traffic also. Atlantic Coast
Line R. Co. v. Florida, 295 U. S. 301, 306. What the
cases really mean is that the causal relation in such circumnstances is so close and intimate and obvious as to
permit it to be called direct without subjecting the word
to an unfair or excessive strain. There is a like imme-

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Opinion of

CARDOZO,

J.

diacy here. Within rulings the most orthodox, the prices
for intrastate sales of coal have so inescapable a relation
to those for interstate sales that a system of regulation
for transactions of the one class is necessary to give adequate protection to the system of regulation adopted for
the other. The argument is strongly pressed by intervening counsel that this may not be true in all communities or in exceptional conditions. If so, the operators
unlawfully affected may show that the Act to that extent
is invalid as to them. Such partial invalidity is plainly
an insufficient basis for a declaration that the Act is invalid as a whole. Dahnke-Walker Co. v. Bondurant,
supra, p. 289; DuPont v. Commissioner, 289 U. S. 685,
688.
What has been said in this regard is said with added
certitude when complainants' business is considered in
the light of the statistics exhibited in the several records.
In No. 636, the Carter case, the complainant has admitted that "substantially all" (over 97/2%) of the sales
of the Carter Company are made in interstate commerce.
In No. 649 the percentages of intrastate sales are, for one
of the complaining companies, twenty-five per cent, for
another one per cent, and for most of the others two per
cent or four. The Carter Company has its mines in West
Virginia; the mines of the other companies are located
in Kentucky. In each of those states, moreover, coal
from other regions is purchased in large quantities, and
is thus brought into competition with the coal locally
produced. Plainly, it is impossible to say either from
the statute itself or from any figures laid before us that
interstate sales will not be prejudicially affected in West
Virginia and Kentucky if intrastate prices are maintained
on a lower level. If it be assumed for present purposes that there are other states or regions where the
effect may be different, the complainants are not the
champions of any rights except their own. Hatch v.

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of

CARDOZO, J.

298 U.S.

Reardon, 204 U. S. 152, 160, 161; Premier-PabstSales Co.
v. Grosscup, ante, p. 226.
(2) The commerce clause being accepted as a sufficient
source of power, the next inquiry must be whether the
power has been exercised consistently with the Fifth
Amendment. In the pursuit of that inquiry, Nebbia v.
New York, 291 U. S. 502, lays down the applicable principle. There a statute of New York prescribing a minimum price for milk was upheld against the objection
that price-fixing was forbidden by the Fourteenth
Amendment.1 We found it a sufficient reason to uphold
the challenged system that "the conditions or practices
in an industry make unrestricted competition an inadequate safeguard of the consumer's interest, produce waste
harmful to the public, threaten ultimately to cut off the
supply of a commodity needed by the public, or portend
the destruction of the industry itself." 291 IT. S. at
p. 538.
All this may be said, and with equal, if not greater
force, of the conditions and practices in the bituminous
coal industry, not only at the enactment of this statute
in August, 1935, but for many years before. Overproduction was at a point where free competition had been
degraded into anarchy. Prices had been cut so low that
profit had become impossible for all except. the lucky
' Hamilton v. Kentucky Distilleries Co., 251 U. S. 146, 156: "The
war power of the United States, like its other powers and like the
police power of the States, is subject to applicable constitutional
limitations (Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wall. 2, 121-127; Monongahela
Navigation Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 312, 336; United States v.
Joint Traffic Assn., 171 U. S. 505, 571; McCray v. United States, 195
U. S. 27, 61; United States v. Cress, 243 U. S. 316, 326); but the
Fifth Amendment imposes in this respect no greater limitation upon
the national power than does the Fourteenth Amendment upon state
power. In re Kemmler, 136 U. S. 436, 448; Carroll v. Greenwich
Ins. Co., 199 U. S. 401, 410." Cf. Brooks v. United States, 267 U. S.
432, 436, 437; Nebbia v. New York, 291 IT. S. 502, 524.

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Opinion

of CARDOZO, J.

handful. Wages came down along with prices and with
profits. There were strikes, at times nation-wide in extent, at other times spreading over broad areas and many
mines, with the accompaniment of violence and bloodshed
and misery and bitter feeling. The sordid tale is unfolded
in many a document and treatise. During the twentythree years between 1913 and 1935, there were nineteen
investigations or hearings by Congress or by specially
created commissions with reference to conditions in the
coal mines.2 The hope of betterment was faint unless the
industry could be subjected to the compulsion of a code.
In the weeks immediately preceding the passage of this
Act the country was threatened once more with a strike
of ominous proportions. The plight of the industry was
not merely a menace to owners and to mine workers: it
was and had long been a menace to the public, deeply
concerned in a steady and uniform supply of a fuel so
vital to the national economy.
Congress was not condemned to inaction in the face of
price wars and wage wars so pregnant with disaster.
Commerce had been choked and burdened; its normal
flow had been diverted from one state to another; there
had been bankruptcy and waste and ruin alike for capital
and for labor. The liberty protected by the Fifth Amendment does not include the right to persist in this anarchic riot. "When industry is grievously hurt, when
producing concerns fail, when unemployment mounts
and communities dependent upon profitable production
are prostrated, the wells of commerce go dry." Appalachian Coals, Inc. v. United States, 288 U. S. 344, 372.
The free competition so often figured as a social good
imports order and moderation and a decent regard for
the welfare of the group. Cf. Sugar Institute, Inc. v.
2

The dates and titles are given in the brief for the Government in

No. 636, at pp. 15-18.

332

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of CARDOZO, J.

298 U.S.

UnitedStates, 297 U. S. 553. There is testimony in these
records, testimony even by the assailants of the statute,
that only through a system of regulated prices can the
industry be stabilized and set upon the road of orderly
and peaceful progress.' If further facts are looked for,
they are narrated in the findings as well as in congressiomial reports and a mass of public records.' After mnaking every allowance for difference of opinion as to the
most efficient cure, the student of the subject is confronted with the indisputable truth that there were ills
to be corrected, and ills that had a direct relation to the
maintenance of commerce among the states without friction or diversion. An evil existing, and also the power
to correct it, the lawmakers were at liberty to use their
own discretion in the selection of the means."
(3) Finally, and in answer to the third objection to
the statute in its price-fixing provisions, there has been
no excessive delegation of legislative power. The prices
,'See also the Report of tihe Fifteenth Annual Meeting of the National Coal Association, October 26-27, 1934, and the statement of
the resolutions adopted at the Sixteenth Annual Meeting as reported
at hearings preliminary to the passage of this Act. Hearings before
a Subcommittee of the Committee on Ways and Means, House of
Representatives, 74th Congress, 1st Sesssion, on H. R. 8479, pp.
20, 152.
4 There is significance in the many bills proposed to the Congress
after painstaking reports during successive national administrations
with a view to the regulation of the coal industry by Congressisonal
action. S. 2557, October 4, 1921, 67th Cong., 1st Sess.; S. 3147,
February 13, 1922, 67th Cong., 2nd Sess.; H. R. 9222, February 11,
1926, 69th Cong., 1st Sess.; 11. R. 11898, May 4, 1926 (S. 4177), 69th
Cong., 1st Sess.; S. 2935, January 7, 1932 (H. R. 7536), 72nd Cong.,
1st Sess.; also same session H. R. 12916 and 9924.
"Price control, like any other form of discrimination, is unconstitutional only if arbitrary, discriminatory or demonstrably irrelevant
to the policy the legislature is free to adopt, and hence an unnecessary
and unwarranted interference with individual liberty." Nebbia v.
New York, supra, at p. 538.

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Opinion of

CARDOZO, J.

to be fixed by the District Boards and the Commission
must conform to the following standards: they .must be
just and equitable; they must take account of the
weighted average cost of production for each minimum
price area; they must not be unduly prejudicial or preferential as between districts or as between producers
within a district; and they must reflect as nearly as
possible the relative market value of the various kinds,
qualities and sizes of coal, at points of delivery in each
common consuming market area; to the end of affording
the producers in the several districts substantially the
same opportunity to dispose of their coals on a competitive basis as has heretofore existed. The minimum for
any district 'shall yield a return, per net ton, not less
than the weighted average of the total costs per net ton
of the tonnage of the minimum price area; the maximum
for any mine, if a maximum is fixed, shall yield a return
not less than cost plus a reasonable profit. Reasonable
prices can as easily be ascertained for coal as for the carriage of passengers or property under the Interstate
Commerce Act, or for the services of brokers in the
stockyards (Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United States,
280 U. S. 420), or for the use of dwellings under the
Emergency Rent Laws (Block v. Hirsh, 256 U. S. 135,
157; Marcus Brown Co. v. Feldman, 256 U. S. 170; Levy
Leasing Co. v. Siegel, 258 U. S. 242), adopted at a time
of excessive scarcity, when the laws of supply and demand no longer gave a measure for the ascertainment
of the reasonable. The standards established by :this
Act are quite as definite as others that have had the
approval of this court. New York Central Securities
Corp. v. United States, 287 U. S. 12, 24; Federal Radio
Comm'n v. Nelson Bros. Bond & Mortgage Co., 289
U. S. 266, 286; Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United
States, supra; Mahler v. Eby, 264 U. S. 32. Certainly a
bench of judges, not experts in the coal business, cannot

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of

CARDOZO,

J.

298 U.S.

say with assurance that members of a commission will
be unable, when advised and informed by others experienced in the industry, to make the standards workable, or to overcome through the development of an
administrative technique many obstacles and difficulties
that might be baffling or confusing to inexperience or
ignorance.
The price provisions of the Act are contained in a chapter known as Part II. The final subdivisions of that part
enumerate certain forms of conduct which are denounced
as "unfair methods of competition." For the most part
the prohibitions are ancillary to the fixing of a minimum
price. The power to fix a price carries with it the subsidiary power to forbid and prevent evasion. Cf. United
States v. Ferger, 250 U. S. 199. The few prohibitions
that may be viewed as separate are directed to situations
that may never be realized in practice. None of the
complainants threatens or expresses the desire to do these
forbidden acts. As to those phases of the statute the
suits are premature.
Second: The next inquiry must be whether Part I of
the statute which creates the administrative agencies,
and Part II, which has to do in the main with the pricefixing machinery, as well as preliminary sections levying
a tax or penalty, .are separable from Part III, which deals
with labor relations in the industry, with the result that
what is earlier would stand if what is later were to
fall.
The statute prescribes the rule by which construction
shall be governed. "If any provision of this Act, or the
application thereof to any person or circumstances, is
held invalid, the remainder of the Act and the application of such provisions to other persons or circumstances
shall not be affected thereby." ยง 15., The rule is not
read as an inexorable mandate. Dorchy v. Kansas, 264
U. S. 286, 290; Utah Power & Light Co. v. Pfost, 286

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Opinion of CARDozo, J.

U. S. 165, 184; Railroad Retirement Board v. Alton R.
Co., 295 U. S. 330, 362. It creates a "presumption of
divisibility," which is not applied mechanically or in a
manner to frustrate the intention of the lawmakers.
Even so, the burden is on the litigant who would escape
its operation. Here the probabilities of intention are far
from overcoming the force of the presumption. They
fortify and confirm it. A confirmatory token is the formal division of the statute into "Parts" separately numbered. Part III which deals with labor is physically
separate from everything that goes before it. But more
convincing than the evidences of form and structure, the
division into chapters and sections and paragraphs, each
with its proper subject matter, are the evidences of plan
and function. Part II, which deals with prices, is to
take effect at once, or as soon as the administrative agencies have finished their administrative work. Part III
in some of its most significant provisions, the section or
subdivision in respect of wages and the hours of labor, may
never take effect at all. This is clear beyond the need
for argument from the mere reading of the statute. The
maximum hours of labor may be fixed by agreement
between the producers of more than two thirds of the
annual national tonnage production for the preceding
calendar year and the representatives of more than one
half the mine workers. Wages may be fixed by agreement or agreements negotiated by collective bargaining
in any district or group of two or more districts between
representatives of producers of more than two thirds of
the annual tonnage production of such districts or each
of such districts in a contracting group during the preceding calendar year, and representatives of the majority
of the mine workers therein. It is possible that none of
these agreements as to hours and wages will ever be
made. If made, they may not be completed for months
or even years. In the meantime, however, the provi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of

CARDOZO,

J.

298 U.S.

sions of Part II will be continuously operative, and will
determine prices in the industry. Plainly, then, there
was no intention on the part of the framers of the statute
that prices should not be fixed if the provisions for wages
or hours of labor were found to be invalid.
Undoubtedly the rules as, to labor relations are important provisions of the statute. Undoubtedly the lawmakers were anxious that provisions so important should
have the force of law. But they announced with all the
directness possible for words that they would keep what
they could have if they could not have the whole. Stabilizing prices would go a long way toward stabilizing
labor relations by giving the producers capacity to pay
a living wage.6 To hold otherwise is to ignore the whole
history of mining. All in vain have official committees
'At a hearing before a Subcommittee of 1he Committee on Ways
and Means, House of Representatives, 74th Congress, First Session,
on H. R. 8479, counsel for the United 'Mine Workers of America, who
had co6perated in the drafting of the Act, said (p. 35):
"We have, as can be well understood, a provision of this code
dealing with labor relations at the mines. We think that is justified;
we think it is impossible to conceive of any regulation of this industry that does not provide for regulation of labor relations at the
mines. I realize that while it may be contested, yet I feel that it is
going to be sustained.
"Also, there is a provision in this act that if this act, or any part of
it, is declared to be invalid as affecting any person or persons, the
rest of it will be valid, and if the other provisions of this act still
stand and the labor provisions are struck down, we still want the
act, because it stabilizes the industry and enables us to negotiate
with them on a basis which will at least be different from what we
have been confronted with since April, and that is a disinclination
to even negotiate a labor wage scale because they claim they are
losing money.
"If the labor provisions go down, we still want the industry stabilized so that our union may negotiate with them on the basis of a
living American wage standard."

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Opinion of

CARDOZO,

J.

inquired and reported in thousands of printed pages if
this lesson has been lost. In the face of that history the
court is now holding that Congress would have been unwilling to give the force of law to the provisions of Part
II, which were to take effect at once, if it could not have
Part III, which in the absence of agreement between the
employers and the miners would never take effect at all.
Indeed, the prevailing opinion goes so far, it seems, as
to insist that if the least provision of the statute in any
of the three chapters is to be set aside as void, the whole
statute must go down, for the reason that everything
from end to end, or everything at all events beginning
with ยง 4, is part of the Bituminous Coal Code, to be
swallowed at a single draught, without power in the
commission or even in the court to abate a jot or tittle.
One can only wonder what is left of the "presumption
of divisibility" which the law-makers were at pains to
establish later on. Codes under the National Recovery
Act are not a genuine analogy. The Recovery Act made
it mandatory (ยง 7a) that every code should contain provisions as to labor, including wages and hours, and left
everything else to the discretion of the codifiers. Wages
and hours in such circumstances were properly described
as "essential features of the plan, its very bone and
sinew" (Schechter Poultry Corp. v. United States, supra,
concurring opinion, p. 555), which taken from the body
of a code would cause it to collapse. Here on the face
of the statute the price provisions of one Part and the
labor provisions of the other (the two to be administered
by separate agencies) are made of equal rank.
What is true of the sections and subdivisions that deal
with wages and the hours of labor is true also of the
other provisions of the same chapter of the Act. Employees are to have the right to organize and bargain
collectively through representatives of their own choos65773 -36

---22

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of CARDozo, J.

298 U.S.

ing, and shall be free from interference, restraint or coercion of employers, or their agents, in the designation of

such representatives, or in self-organization or in other
concerted activities for the purpose of collective bargaining or other mutual aid or protection, and no employee
and no one seeking employment shall be required as a condition of employment to join any company union. No
threat has been made by any one to do violence to the
enjoyment of these immunities and privileges. No attempt to violate them may be made by the complainants
or indeed by any one else in the term of four years during
which the Act is to remain in force. By another subdivision employees are to have the right of peaceable assemblage for the discussion of the principles of collective
bargaining, shall be entitled to select their own checkweighman to inspect the weighing or measuring of coal,
and shall not be required as a condition of employment
to live in company houses or to trade at the store of the
employer. None of these privileges or immunities has
been threatened with impairment. No attempt to impair them may ever be made by any one.
Analysis of the statute thus leads to the conclusion
that the provisions of Part III, so far as summarized, are
separable from Parts I and II, and that any declaration
in respect of their validity or invalidity under the commerce clause of the Constitution or under any other section will anticipate a controversy that may never become
real. This being so, the proper course is to withhold an
expression of opinion until expression becomes necessary.
A different situation would be here if a portion of the
statute, and a portion sufficient to uphold the regulatory
penalty, did not appear to be valid. If the whole statute
were a nullity, the complainants would be at liberty to
stay the hand of the tax-gatherer threatening to collect
the penalty, for collection in such circumstances would
be a trespass, an illegal and forbidden act. Child Labor

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Opinion of

CARDOZO,

J.

Tax Case, 259 U. S. 20; Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44, 62;
Terrace v. Thompson, 263 U. S. 197, 215; Piercev. Society
of Sisters, 268 U. S. 510, 536. It would be no answer to
say that the complainants might avert the penalty by
declaring themselves code members (ยง 3) and fighting the
statute afterwards. In the circumstances supposed there
would be no power in the national government to put
that constraint upon them. The Act by hypothesis being
void in all its parts as a regulatory measure, the complainants might stand their ground, refuse to sign anything, and resist the onslaught of the collector as the
aggression of a trespasser. But the case as it comes to us
assumes a different posture, a posture inconsistent with
the commission of a trespass either present or prospective. The hypothesis of complete invalidity has been
shown to be unreal. The price provisions being valid,
the complainants were under a duty to come in under
the code, whether the provisions as to labor are valid or
invalid, and their failure to come in has exposed them to
a penalty lawfully imposed. They are thus in no position to restrain the acts of the collector, or to procure a
judgment defeating the operation of the statute, whatever, may be the fate hereafter of particular provisions
not presently enforcible. The right to an injunction failing, the suits must be dismissed. Nothing more is needful-no pronouncement more elaborate-for a disposition of the controversy.
A last assault upon the statute is still to be repulsed.
The complainants take the ground that the Act may not
coerce them through the imposition of a penalty into a
seeming recognition or acceptance of the code, if any
of the code provisions are invalid, however separable
from others. I cannot yield assent to a position so
extreme. It is one thing to impose a penalty for refusing to come in under a code that is void altogether.
It is a yery different thing if a penalty is imposed for

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of CARnozo, J.

298 U.S.

refusing to come in under a code invalid at the utmost
in separable provisions, not immediately operative, the
right to contest them being explicitly reserved. The
penalty in those circumstances is adopted as a lawful
sanction to compel submission to a statute having the
quality of law. A sanction of that type is the one in
controversy here. So far as the provisions for collective bargaining and freedom from coercion are concerned,
the same duties are imposed upon employers by ยง 9
of the statute whether they come in under the code or
not. So far as code members are subject to regulation
as to wages and hours of labor, the force of the complainants' argument is destroyed when reference is made
to those provisions of the statute in which the effect of
recognition and acceptance is explained and limited. By
ยง 3 of the Act, "No producer shall by reason of his acceptance of the code provided for in section 4 or of the
drawback of taxes provided for in section 3 of this Act
be held to be precluded or estopped from contesting the
constitutionality of any provision bf said code, or its
validity as applicable to said producer." These provisions are reinforced and made more definite by ยงยง 5 (c)
and 6 (b), which so far as presently material are quoted
in the margin.' For the subscriber to the code who is
ยง 5 (c).. "Any producer whose membership in the code and whose
right to a drawback on the taxes as provided under this Act has been
canceled, shall have the right to have his membership restored upon
payment by him of all taxes in full for the time during which it
shall be found by the Commi sion that his violation of the code or
of any regulation thereunder, the observance of which is required
by its terms, shall have continued. In making its findings under this
subsection the Commission shall state specifically (1) the period of
time during which such violation continued, and (2) the amount of
taxes required to be paid to bring about reinstatement as a code
member."
ยง 6 (b). "Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the Commission or Labor Board in a proceeding to which such person is a

CARTER v. CARTER COAL CO.
238

Opinion of CARDozo, J.

doubtful as to the validity of some of its requirements,
there is thus complete protection. If this might otherwise be uncertain, it would be made clear by our deci-:
sion in Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123, which was applied in the court below at the instance and for the
benefit of one of these complainants to give relief against
penalties accruing during suit. Helvering v. Carter, No.
651. 'Finally, the adequacy of the remedial devices is
made even more apparent when one remembers that the
attack upon the statute in its labor regulations assumes
the existence of a controversy that may never become
actual. The failure to agree upon a wage scale or upon
maximum hours of daily or weekly labor may make the
.statutory scheme abortive in the very phases and aspects
that the court has chosen to condemn. What the code
will provide as to wages and hours of labor, or whether
it will provide anything, is still in the domain of
prophecy. The opinion of the court begins at the wrong
end. To adopt a homely form of words, the complainants have been crying before they are really hurt.
My vote is for affirmance.
I am authorized to state that MR.JUSTICE BRANDEIS
and MR.JUSTICE STONE join in this opinion.
party may obtain a review of such order in the Circuit Court of
Appeals of the United States, within any circuit wherein such person resides or has his principal place of business, or in the United
States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, by filing in
such court, within sixty days after the entry of such order, a written petition praying that the order of the Commission or Labor
The judgBoard be modified or set aside in whole or in part ....
ment and decree of the court, affirming, modifying, and enforcing or
setting aside, in whole or in part, any such order of the Commission or Labor Board, as the case may be, shall be final, subject to
review by the Supreme Court of the United States upon certiorari
or certification as provided in sections 239 and 240 of the Judicial
Code, as amended (U, S. C., title 28, ยงยง 346 and 347,)"

