OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for the United States.

298 U. S.

gages the services of an average stater, it is merely as
a matter of business convenience on his part."
What we have said suffices to show that the claim accrued more than six years before the suit was begun, and
therefore was barred by the statute.
Judgment reversed.

UNITED STATES v. ELGIN, JOLIET & EASTERN
RAILWAY CO.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 660.

Argued April 8, 9, 1936.-Decided May 25, 1936.

1. Legislative approval of a construction placed by this Court upon
an Act of Congress is evidenced by failure to amend. P. 500.
2. The mere fact that all the shares of a railroad corporation and all
the shares of a manufacturing corporation are owned by a holding
company does not make transportation by the one of the products
of the other unlawful under the commodities clause of the Interstate Commerce Act. P. 499.
United States v. Reading Co., 253 U. S. 26, distinguished. Existence of power in the holding company to control the railway company, not exercised in the present case, did not make the railway
company the alter ego of the holding company.
11 F. Supp. 435, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a decree of the District Court of three

judges, which dismissed a bill brought by the United
States to enjoin the Railway Company from hauling the
products of certain manufacturing companies in alleged
violation of the commodities clause of the Interstate
Commerce Act.
Assistant Solicitor General Bell, with whom Solicitor
General Reed and Messrs. Daniel W. -Knowlton, M. S.
Huberman, and Elmer B. Collins were on the brief, for
the United States.

U. S. v. ELGIN, J. & E. RY.
492

493

Argument for the United States.

The very purpose and function of a holding company,
such as the United States Steel Corporation, is to control,
direct, and supervise the management of its various subsidiaries. A holding company, together with its subsidiaries, constitutes one industrial organization consisting
of various departments and branches, and such subsidiaries are in fact the agents, instrumentalities, or departments of the holding company.
The Commodities Clause was designed to divorce
transportation from production in order "to put an end
to the injustice to the shipping public, which experience
had shown to result from discriminations of various kinds
which inevitably grew up where a railroad company occupied the inconsistent positions of carrier and shipper."
United States v. Reading Co., 253 U. S. 26, 60-61. When
appellee transports the commodities of the producing
subsidiaries it plainly is in the "dual and inconsistent positions of public carrier and private shipper." United
States v. Delaware, L. & W. R. Co., 238 U. S. 516, 525.
Clearly, the evils sought to be reached by the Commodities Clause are no less present than if the Steel Corporation owned title directly to the railroad and producing
properties; the incentive to discriminations against the
shipping public is just as strong in the one case as in the
other.
The Court recognized in the Reading case that the
subsidiaries of a holding company are necessarily its mere
agents, instrumentalities, or departments.
In holding it incumbent upon the Government to
show by evidence of actual practices that the subsidiaries are administered as the agents, instrumentalities, or
departments of the holding company, the court below
applied the rule applicable where a railroad company
owns the stock of a producing company; it failed to
distinguish between a holding company which is created and exists only for the purpose oft directing the

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for the United States.

298 U. S.

affairs of its subsidiaries, and an operating company
which, though it may own stock in another company, is
itself engaged directly in operations. In the latter
case the stock may be held only for investment and "'in
a manner normal and usual with stockholders." United
States v. Reading Co., supra,p. 63.
In any event, proof of the holding company relationship should have been held to be sufficient to establish
at least prima facie that the subsidiaries are in fact administered as the agents, instrumentalities or departments of the Steel Corporation.
Even if the burden rested upon the Government to
establish affirmatively that the subsidiaries are so administered in practice, the burden has been satisfied in
this case by the clear weight of the evidence.
Appellee neither is, nor resembles, an "industrial railroad." Moreover, there is no basis for the suggestion
that the Commodities Clause does not apply to the
transportation by such a road of commodities of an industrial corporation with which it is affiliated. Appellee also appeared to contend that a railroad subsidiary of a holding company may not, as a matter of law,
be deemed to have an interest within the Commodities
Clause in commodities owned by subsidiary producing
companies of that holding company. The Reading case,
supra, is direct authority to the contrary.
The Commodities Clause does not prohibit ownership by a railroad company of the stock of a producing
company; or ownership by a producing company of the
stock of a railroad company; or ownership by a holding
company of the stock of a railroad company and of a
producing company; or common ownership by individuals of the stock of a railroad company and a producing
company. The Commodities Clause is not a prohibition
against stock ownership at all. It prohibits the trans-

U. S. v. ELGIN, J. & E. RY.
492

Argument for Appellee.

portation of commodities under certain circumstances.
The effect of the decree in a suit in a Commodities Clause
case is simply to enjoin the transportation of such commodities. Furthermore, the statute does not specify
what constitutes an interest direct or indirect. It does
not make such an interest turn upon stock-ownership. It
does not mention stock or stock-ownership.
Decisions of this Court make it clear that whether a
railroad has an interest direct or indirect in commodities
is to be determined upon the basis of the relationship between the railroad and the owner of the commodities,
considered in the light of the purpose of the Commodities
Clause "to prevent railroads from occupying the dual and
inconsistent positions of public carrier and private shipper" and "to separate the business of transportation from
the business of selling." United States v. Delaware, L.
& W. R. Co., 238 U. S. 516, 525.
Mr. Nathan L. Miller, with whom Messrs. Kemper K.
Knapp, Frank B. Kellogg, and Charles S. Belsterling
were on the brief, for appellee.
Appellant argues that notwithstanding the facts stated
in the court's findings, this Court ought to adopt the fiction that appellee does what in fact it does not do. Appellant's argument consists in presenting reasons why the
Commodities Clause should be distorted from the meaning conveyed by the simple and natural meaning of the
words used.
That the Commodities Clause means just what appears on its surface and does not apply to the business
carried on by appellee is shown in many ways. It is
shown by comparing it with other provisions of the same
statute. It is shown by the proceedings in Congress
when the statute was under consideration, particularly
by the. rejection by Congress of an amendment which
would have made the statute apply to situations such as

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Appellee.

298 U. S.

shown by the evidence in this case. The purpose of the
statute, it is shown, is in accordance with the language of
the statute, no more, no less. Furthermore, the authorities whose duties require them to enforce the statute
have, during many years, held that the statute means
just what appears on its face. This includes the Interstate Commerce Commission and several Attorneys General. Congress itself has taken the same view.
The previous decisions of this Court are analyzed and
discussed. The theories deduced by appellant from those
decisions are controverted.
The United States Steel Corporation owns the stock of
appellee. The evidence shows that it evinced its interest
in appellee in various ways. Appellant presents the facts
bearing on the relation between the two companies at
great length. Appellee points out in this connection that
the Interstate Commerce Act, including the Commodities Clause, is directed to the transportation services
performed by common carriers. Its field is such transportation services. Its purpose is not the prevention or regulation of the internal affairs of common carriers. Its
concern is the relation between carriers and the shipping
public. Appellee therefore contends that the incidents
which appellant presents at such great length are irrelevant to any issue in this case. They relate only to the
internal affairs of appellee. The evidence and the findings of the District Court show that the United States
Steel Corporation does not interfere in any way with
the operation by appellee of its railroad. Appellee operates its railroad and serves the several subsidiaries of the
United States Steel Corporation and the shipping public
independently and freely and to the entire satisfaction
of everyone concerned. Appellee has been guilty of no
wrong and has violated no public policy against the Commodities Clause or against any statute.

U. S. v. ELGIN, J. & E. RY.
492

Opinion of the Court.

By leave of Court, Mr. Clarence A. Miller filed a brief
on behalf of The American Short Line Railroad Association, as amicus curiae, urging affirmance of the decree
of the lower court.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Appellee, incorporated under the laws of Illinois and
Indiana, has been an interstate common carrier by railroad since 1884. It operates the "Chicago Outer Belt
Line," 195 miles long, which runs from a point on Lake
Michigan, north of Chicago, around that city to South
Chicago, Gary and Porter, south and east. This line connects and interchanges freight with every railroad entering Chicago and serves many industrial plants. Among
them are certain large producers of steel and steel products, operated by corporations, sometimes called "Subsidiaries," all of whose shares belong to the United States
Steel Corporation: Illinois Steel Company, American
Bridge Company, American Sheet and Tin Plate Company, National Tube Company, American Steel and Wire
Company, and Cyclone Fence Company. Transportation
of products-raw, semi-finished and finished-to and
from and amongst the plants of the six constitutes 60%
of appellee's business. It files tariffs and complies generally with the Interstate Commerce Act and Commission regulations. During the years 1926-1930, its annual operating revenue exceeded $20,000,000.
The United States Steel Corporation, a holding-nonoperating-corporation organized in 1901, then acquired
and has ever since held, all shares of appellee, also all
those of the producing companies.
By an Original Bill filed 1930 (amended 1932), the
United States instituted this proceeding against appellee, sole defendant, in the District Court, Northern Dis65773-36----32

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

trict of Illinois. They alleged that by transporting articles manufactured, mined, produced, or owned by subsidiaries of the United States Steel Corporation, appellee violated the Commodities Clause of the Interstate
Commerce Act, Act June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584,
585; U. S. C., Title 49, ยง 1 (8), copied in the margin,'
and asked for an injunction prohibiting such action.
After answer, voluminous evidence and trial, the court
below made findings of fact and, announced an opinion.
It concludedMere ownership by the United States Steel Corporation of all shares of both appellee and a producing subsidiary was not enough to show that products made or
owned by the latter were articles or commodities produced by the former, or under its authority, or which it
owned in whole or in part, or in which it had an interest,
direct or indirect, and was forbidden to transport by the
Commodities Clause.
Also, "no single piece of evidence taken alone, nor all
taken together and considered as a whole warrant the
inference that the defendant and the producing and manufacturing subsidiaries are under the domination, control,
direction, and management of the Steel Corporation, in
the sense that the defendant and the other subsidiaries
are mere departments, branches, adjuncts, and instrumentalities of the Steel Corporation. The evidence fails to
show that the defendant has any interest, direct or indi'From and after May first, nineteen hundred and eight, it shall be
unlawful for any railroad company to transport from any State,
Territory, or the District of Columbia, to any other State, Territory,
or the District of Columbia, or to any foreign country, any article
or commodity, other than timber and the manufactured products
thereof, manufactured, mined, or produced by it, or under its authority, or which it may own in whole, or in part, or in which it may
have any interest, direct or indirect, except such articles or commodities as may be necessary and intended for its use in the conduct
of its business as a common carrier.

U. S. v. ELGIN, J. & E. RY.
492

Opinion of the Court.

rect, legal or equitable, in the articles or commodities
which it transports for the subsidiaries of the Steel
Corporation."
A final decree dismissed the Bill for want of equity and
the cause is here by direct appeal (U. S. C., Title 49, ยง 45).
Both conclusions are challenged and we are asked to reverse the decree and grant relief as originally prayed.
The Commodities Clause became part of the Interstate
Commerce Act in 1906, U. S. C., Title 49, ยง 1 (8), and
has remained without material change. It was first
interpreted here in United States v. Delaware & Hudson Co., (1909) 213 U. S. 366, 415, where, by Mr. Justice
White, the Court said:
"We then construe the statute as prohibiting a railroad
company engaged in interstate commerce from transporting in such commerce articles or commodities under
the following circumstances and conditions: (a) When
the article or commodity has been manufactured, mined,
or produced by a carrier or under its authority, and, at
the time of transportation, the carrier has not in good
faith before the act of transportation dissociated itself
from such article or commodity; (b) When the carrier
owns the article or commodity to be transported in whole
or in part; (c) When the carrier at the time of transportation has an interest, direct or indirect, in a legal or equitable sense in the article or commodity, not including,
therefore, articles or commodities manufactured, mined,
produced or owned, etc., by a bona fide corporation in
which the railroad company is a stockholder."
This construction has been accepted and followed in
the later cases. United States v. Lehigh Valley R. Co.,
220 U. S.257, 266; United States v. Delaware,L. & W. R.
Co., 238 U. S. 516, 526; United States v. Reading Co.,
253 U. S.26, 62; United States v. Lehigh Valley R. Co.,'
254 U. S.255, 266.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

Through Mr. Justice Lamar, the court said, in United
States v. Delaware, L. & W. R. Co.---

"But mere stock ownership by a railroad, or by its
stockholders, in a producing company cannot be used as
a test by which to determine the legality of the transportation of such company's coal by the interstate carrier.
For, when the Commodity Clause was under discussion,
attention was called to the fact that there were a number
of anthracite roads which at that time owned stock in
coal companies. An amendment was then offered which,
if adopted, would have made it unlawful for any such
road to transport coal belonging to such company. The
amendment, however, was voted down; and, in the light
of that indigation of congressional intent, the Commodity
Clause was construed to mean that it was not necessarily
unlawful for a railroad company to transport coal belonging to a corporation in which the road held stock.
United States v. Delaware & Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 414.
For a stronger reason, it would not necessarily be illegal
for the road to transport coal belonging to a corporation
whose stock was held by those who owned the stock of
the railroad company."
Notwithstanding the intent imputed to Congress by
this opinion, announced in 1915, no amendment has been
made to the Commodities Clause. We must, therefore,
conclude that the interpretation of the Act then accepted
has legislative approval.
It is now insisted that, although a railroad company
may own the shares of a producing company and yet
transport the latter's products without violating the Commodities Clause, if a holding company acquires the shares
of both carrier and producer, Then such ransportation becotnes illegal. The theory is that the subsidiaries of
holding' companies are necessarily no more than parts of
it. Evidently, this is entirely out of harmony with the
reasoning advanced to support the construction of the

U. S. v. ELGIN, J. & E. RY.
492

501

Opinion of the Court.

Act adopted in United States v. Delaware & Hudson Co.,
supra; also in direct conflict with the above quoted
language from United States v. Delaware, L. & TV. R. Co.
Considering former rulings, it is impossible for us now
to declare as matter of law that every company all of
whose shares are owned by a holding company necessarily
becomes an agent, instrumentality, or department of the
latter. Whether such intimate relation exists is a question of fact to be determined upon evidence.
Counsel for appellants submit that the record compels
the inference of fact that appellee and the subsidiary
producing companies are but departments of the United
States Steel Corporation; and that, as in United States v.
Reading Co., supra, we should find the carrier is violating the Commodities Clause. It is not claimed that
this inference derives from any single fact, but out of the
mass. The following portion of the opinion in United
States v. Reading Company is heavily relied upon"But the question which we have presented by this
branch of the case [alleged violation of the Commodities
Clause] is not the technical one of whether ownership
by a railroad company of stock in a coal company renders it unlawful for the former to carry the product of
the latter, for here the railroad company did not own
any of the stock of the coal company. The real question
is whether combining in a single corporation the ownership of all of the stock of a carrier and of all of the stock
of a coal company results in such community of interest
or title in the product of the latter as to bring the case
within the scope of the provisions of the act."
And, having regard to this, they say-"The affirmative
answer given in the Reading case is controlling here."
Obviously, what was there stated cannot be taken as
declaration of an abstract principle; it had application

502

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

to the relevant circumstances. Later (pp. 61-62) in the
same opinion the essential ones are revealed"All three of the Reading companies had the same
officers and directors and it was under their authority
that the mines were worked and the railroad operated,
and they exercised that authority in the one case in precisely the same character as in the other-as officials
of the Holding Company. The manner in which the
stock of the three was held resulted, and was intended to
result, in the abdication of all independent corporate action by both the Railway Company and the Coal Company, involving as it did the surrender to the Holding
Company of the entire conduct of their affairs. It would
be to subordinate reality to legal form to hold that the
coal mined by the Coal Company, under direction of the
Holding Company's officials, was not produced by the
same 'authority' that operated the Reading Railway
lines."
If the evidence here showed the relationship between
the holding company, the carrier, and the producing companies to be substantially as in the Reading case, that
opinion well might be regarded as controlling. But there
is material difference and we must look elsewhere for
guidance.
Properly to appraise the situation now presented particular attention must be given to the following facts.
All shares of appellee and the subsidiary producing companies have been owned by the United States Steel Corporation since 1901. The railroad has been under
constant supervision by the Interstate Commerce Commission. In The Matter of Alleged Rebates to the United
States Steel Corporation, 36 I. C. C. 557, (1915). It
functions as a separate corporate carrier under imme-

U. S. v. ELGIN, J. & E. RY.
492

Opinion of the Court.

diate control of its own directors, no one of whom is on
the board of the holding company; it owns all necessary
equipment, makes its own contracts, manages its own
finances, serves its patrons without discrimination and
apparently to their satisfaction. The lawfulness of the
relationship between the holding company and subsidiaries was challenged in United States v. United States
Steel Corp., decided here in 1920, 251 U. S. 417. After
long and thorough investigation and consideration, this
court held the Anti-trust Act was not being violated.
The present proceeding is one to prevent probable future
unlawful conduct and not to punish acts long since completed, however reprehensible. "Our consideration
should be of not what the Corporation had power to do
or did, but what it has now power to do and is doing."
United States v. United States Steel Corp., supra, p. 444.
The court below made definite findings of fact and upon
them reached the conclusions stated above. Although
criticized, and notwithstanding certain isolated acts may
indicate undue control over the carrier at their dates,
we think that the findings are essentially correct and support the decree. Instances of participation in the affairs
of the appellee by the officers of the United States Steel
Corporation, stressed by counsel, are relatively few; a
material part of them occurred years ago-some of the
more important in 1909. They are not adequate to support the claim that appellee must be regarded as the alter
ego of its sole stockholder. The mere power to control,
the possibility of initiating unlawful conditions, is not
enough, as clearly pointed out in United States v. Delaware & Hudson Co., supra. That a stockholder should
show concern about the company's affairs, ask for reports,
sometimes consult with its officers, give advice and even

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
STONE, J., dissenting.

298 U. S.

object to proposed action is but the natural outcome of a
relationship not inhibited by the Commodities Clause.
We find no adequate reason for disapproving the challenged decree and it must be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE,

dissenting.

I think the judgment should be reversed.
The language of the commodities clause, read in the
light .of its legislative history, can leave no doubt that
its purpose was to withhold from every interstate rail
carrier the inducement and facility for favoritism and
abuse of its powers as a common carrier, which experience had shown are likely to occur when a single business
interest occupies the inconsistent position of carrier and
shipper. See United States v. Reading Co., 253 U. S.26,
60, 61. Before the enactment of the commodities clause,
Congress, by sweeping prohibitions, had made unlawful
every form of rebate to shippers and every form of discrimination in carrier rates, service and facilities, injurious to shippers or the public. By the Sherman Act it
had forbidden combinations in restraint of interstate commerce. But it did not stop there. The commodities
clause was aimed, not at the practices of railroads already
penalized, but at the suppression of the power and the
favorable opportunity, inseparable from actual control of
both shipper and carrier by the same interest, to engage
in practices already forbidden and others inimical to the
performance of carrier duties to the public. See Delaware, L. & W. R. Co. v. United States, 231 U. S. 363,
370; United States v. Reading Co., supra.
It is not denied that the ',indirect" interest of the carrier in the commodity transported, at which the statute
strikes, may be effected through the instrumentality of a

U. S. v. ELGIN, J. & E. RY.
492

STONE,

J., dissenting.

holding company which owns the stock both of the
carrier and the company which manufactures and ships
the commodity. This was definitely established by the
decision in United States v. Reading Co., supra, where
it was held that the power of control through holding
company ownership of all the capital stock both of an
interstate rail carrier and a shipper producing the commodity carried, plus an active exercise of that control,
are enough to make the transportation unlawful.
While it was recognized, as had been held in United
States. v. Delaware & Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366, that
mere ownership, by a carrier or a shipper, of the stock
of the other, does not call the statute into operation,
the Court was careful to point out, pp. 62, 63, that
"where such ownership of stock is resorted to, not for
the purpose of participating in the affairs of the corporation in which it is held in a manner normal and usual
with stockholders, but for the purpose of making it a
mere agent or instrumentality or department of another
company, the courts will look through the forms to the
reality of the relation between 'the companies as if the
corporate agency did not exist and will deal with them
as the justice of the case may require." Domination in
fact by a holding company both of the rail carrier and the
producing shipper of commodities, in addition to its legal power to dominate them, is enough to bring the carrier within the prohibition of the commodities clause.
The only question for our decision is whether the complete power of the United States Steel Corporation,
through stock ownership, to dominate both appellee and
certain shippers over its lines, has been exercised sufficiently to exemplify the evil which the commodities
clause was intended to prevent, and so to bring appellee
within its condemnation. It is of no consequence that
complaints of rebates by appellee to United States Steel

506

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

298 U. S.

Corporation subsidiaries have not been sustained, 36
I. C. C. 557, or that the Steel Corporation and its subsidiaries have been held not to infringe the Sherman
Anti-Trust Act. United States v. United States Steel
Corp., 251 U. S. 417. The commodities clause does not
forbid rebating or attempts to monopolize interstate commerce, which are dealt with by other statutes. It is
concerned with transportation of commodities by a rail
carrier where the carrier and the producer and shipper
are so dominated by the same interest, through the exercise of power secured by stock ownership, as to make
rebates, discriminations, attempts to monopolize and
other abuses of carrier power, easy, and their detection
and punishment difficult.
It is not important, as the court below thought, that in
the relations between the Steel Corporation and its subsidiaries "there was a scrupulous recognition of the separate entities," or that all transactions between them were
"in the form of transactions and communications between
two separate and distinct corporations," or that the business and accounts of each subsidiary "were kept separate
and distinct" from those of others. Nor is it of any
moment, as this Court seems to imply, that the affiliates
do not have the same officers and directors, and that
some years ago they abandoned the practice of maintaining interlocking directorates.
Those familiar with present day methods of corporate
control will not be so naive as to suppose that the complete domination in fact of its subsidiaries by a holding
company owning all their stock is in any way inconsistent
with scrupulous recognition of their separate corporate
entities, or with the maintenance of separate accounts and
distinct personnels of officers and directors. Every holding company presupposes a relationship between it and
a distinct corporate entity and its power to control the

U. S. v. ELGIN, J. & E. RY.
492

507

STONE, J., dissenting.

latter. Where the issue is whether that power has been
exercised, "courts will look through the forms to the
realities of the relation between the companies as if the
corporate agencies did not exist." Hence we are presently concerned with what is in fact done in the Steel
Corporation's exercise of its power to control, not with
the particular legal forms or methods under cover of
which control may in fact be effected. And since we
must look to its acts of control, in addition to its power
acquired by stock ownership, as the decisive test, we must
scrutinize what has occurred in the past as the best
indication of the manner and extent of the use which
may be made of the power in the future.
In appraising the Steel Corporation's acts of control
over the appellee, it is of significance that the dominant
interest in the inter-company relationship, unlike that in
the earlier cases brought before the Court, is that of production, and not transportation. Appellee, although a
common carrier, subject to public duties and responsibilities, is, in its relation to the Steel Corporation and its
subsidiaries, but an appanage to their vast steel producing business. While the commodities clause makes
no distinction between the one type of domination and
the other, .such control of a railroad is far more menacing to the public and to rival producers than is domination of producer interests by a carrier. When the carrier
interest predominates, extension of its transportation facilities beyond the demands of its producing affiliates, and
even to their competitors, with resulting benefit to the
public, may well ensue. But where the producing interest is dominant, and the carrier is chiefly engaged in
transporting the commodities of producing affiliates, restricted or indifferent service to competing producers and
to the public, tardy or inadequate extension of facilities,
discrimination in furnishing service and facilities, are
dangers especially to be anticipated.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
STONE, J., dissenting.

298 U. S.

In such a relationship, control of carrier capital accumulation, expansion and expenditure, is a peculiarly convenient and effective means of subordinating carrier public service to the interests of production, by restriction of
carrier expansion which would benefit the public and
competing producers, or by allowing it only under discriminatory conditions. It is with these general considerations in mind, especially pertinent to the present case,
that its facts should be examined.
Since its formation in 1901 the Steel Corporation has
owned all the capital stock of the appellee railroad and
of the Illinois Steel Company, a manufacturing company which appellee serves. Through lease, in 1909, of
the Chigago, Lake Shore and Eastern Railway line, and
the acquisition of appurtenant trackage rights over another line, appellee secured and maintains direct transportation facilities between the Illinois Steel Company
and mines and quarries, all subsidiaries of the Steel Corporation. Sixty per cent. of appellee's tonnage is furnished by Steel Corporation subsidiaries.
Although the Steel Corporation is exclusively a holding and not an operating company, its by-laws defining
the president's duties provide that he "shall have general
charge of the business of the corporation relating to manufacturing, mining and transportation." The record
shows that this authority is exercised by close and constant supervision over 'the business and affairs of Steel
Corporation subsidiaries, not through the formal proceedings of stockholders and directors meetings, but
through conferences and correspondence taking place directly between the officers of the Steel Corporation and
those of its subsidiaries.
From 1901 to 1920 there were on appellee's board of
directors never less than four officers or directors of the
Steel Corporation, selected from its most important officers. Since 1920 the appellee's board of directors has

U. S. v. ELGIN, J. & E. RY.
492

SToNE, J., dissenting.

been selected by appellee's president and elected by him
acting as proxy for the Steel Corporation. He has likewise selected the officers, who have been elected by the
Board at his suggestion. The record is replete with evidence, chiefly correspondence, showing the complete subservience of appellee's president to the officers of the Steel
Corporation in matters of corporate policy. The subservience of appellee's board of directors to its president,
and through him in turn to the Steel Corporation, is exemplified by appellee's settled practice from 1910 .until
the time of suit of entering into contracts without any
previous approval by its board of directors. At its annual meeting of directors the contracts which have been
previously entered into, and often have already been performed, are ratified and confirmed. This procedure was
followed with respect to all contracts, some 2,313 in number, executed on behalf of appellee between 1910 and
1933.
Appellee's fiscal policy has for many years been dominated and rigidly controlled by the Steel Corporation.
Dividends have been habitually declared and the amount
of them fixed only after securing, by correspondence, the
consent and approval of the officers of the Steel Corporation. The Steel Corporation draws to itself the surplus
funds of its subsidiaries, including appellee, which are
deposited with it, for its own use, often upon its specific
request or demand, and at a rate of interest which it
fixes. These funds are withdrawn by draft of the subsidiary, payable only upon acceptance by the Steel Corporation, and customarily upon notice given in advance.
From 1920 to 1933 appellee's aggregate deposits with the
Steel Corporation were $79,000,000, of which $32,000,000
were made at the request or demand of the Steel Corporation.
Since its formation the Steel Corporation has maintained under its direction and control a clearance account,
by which monthly settlement is made of inter-company

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

298 U. S.

accounts among its various subsidiaries. All of appellee's
settlements of such accounts, except freight charges and
traffic claims, are cleared through this account. The account is managed by the controller of the Steel Corporation. Interest is charged or allowed on balances due in
the account at a rate of interest fixed by the treasurer
of the Steel Corporation. Terms of settlement are controlled by it and not by free bargaining of debtor and
creditor.
By direction of the finance committee of the Steel Corporation, its subsidiaries, including appellee, are required
to obtain in advance the approval of the committee of all
expenditures for capital account and improvements in
excess of a specified amount. From 1920 to 1932 the
limit was $10,000, since which it has been $5,000. Since
1908 the officers of the Steel Corporation have issued
from time to time, to all its subsidiaries, instructions outlining in detail the rules and procedure governing their
application to the Steel Corporation for its approval of
their expenditures for improvements. This requirement
was not perfunctory. Failure to secure from the officers
of the Steel Corporation, in advance, the approval of
capital expenditures, brought from them by letter or telegram swift reminder of the neglect. Requests for approval of proposed expenditures have been the occasion
for careful inquiry by the officers of the Steel Corporation as to their necessity and propriety. In recent years
approximately 70 per cent. of appellee's total capital expenditures have been of the class requiring consent by
the Steel Corporation.* Included were items directly
* Out of an annual average capital expenditure by appellee of

approximately $900,000, during each of the years from 1926 to 1930
inclusive, an average of over $600,000 annually required the prior
approval of the Steel Corporation. In 1930, appellee made capital
expenditures of $1,910,755, of which $1,315,773 required the approval of the Steel Corporation. Appellee's total capital expendi-

tures from 1926 to 1930 amounted to $4,597,925, of which $3,153,817
required such approval.

U. S. v. ELGIN, J. & E. RY.
492

STONE,

511

J., dissenting.

affecting appellee's transportation service, such as the cost
of rolling stock, procuring an adequate water supply for
its engines, improvement of its right-of-way, and additional yard facilities.
With such minute and. continuous control of capital
outlays of appellee by an organization primarily interested in production rather than common carrier service,
it is not surprising that the only expansion of appellee
during the period, of control has been its lease of the line
of the Chicago, Lake Shore and Eastern Railway, a subsidiary of a Steel Corporation producing affiliate, the
Illinois Steel Company, which it served almost exclusively, and the acquisition through this lease of a trackage privilege over the Chicago & Eastern Illinois Railroad, restricted to the hauling of products of producing
subsidiaries of the Steel Corporation-an arrangement by
which appellee raised its tonnage from subsidiaries of the
Steel Corporation from 25% to 60%.
It was the chairman of the board of the Steel Corporation, not the officers of appellee, who had the deciding
voice in determining whether the lease should be taken
and who assumed active control of the negotiations for
its acquisition. Again, in 1920, when the trackage agreement was subject to cancellation by reason of the receivership of the Chicago & Eastern Illinois, it was the chairman of the board of the Steel Corporation who actively
controlled the successful negotiation for a continuance of
the agreement.
The record discloses many other forms of actual control
of the business and affairs of appellee by the Steel Corporation whioh it is unnecessary to detail. It is enough
that those mentioned, when examined in their setting,
*show with convincing force that the appellee railroad is
in fact obedient to the dominating control of producers
of commodities which it transports. In every instance
when the Steel Corporation has conceived that it had any

512

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

298 U. S.

interest to subserve, appellee has willingly done its bidding. In none has there been any indication of a disposition to pursue any policy not at least tacitly approved
by the Steel Corporation. The active and continuous
control over appellee's finances and expenditures is alone
sufficient to create a continuing danger of neglect and
abuse of appellee's carrier duties in favor of the dominating production and shipping interest, a temptation
and an opportunity which it was the purpose of the commodities clause to forestall. In addition, the Steel Corporation has exerted that power, in the acquisition of the
Lake Shore lease and its appurtenant trackage rights, to
secure special advantages for its producing subsidiaries.
The trackage rights extend only to hauling their own
product, not that of their rivals.
This relationship passes far beyond that which is normal between a railroad and its stockholders and establishes a control over appellee's policy as complete as
though it were but a department of the Steel Corporation. If the commodities clause permits control such as is
exhibited here, one is at a loss to say what scope remains
for the operation of the statute. Whatever views may be
entertained of the soundness and wisdom of the decision
in United States v. Delaware & Hudson Co,., supra, it
neither requires nor excuses our reduction of the commodities clause to a cipher in the calculations of those
who control the railroads of the country.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS and MR. JUSTICE

cur in this opinion.

CARDOZO

con-

