CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
JONES v. SECURITIES & EXCHANGE
COMMISSION.
CEUTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
SECOND

No. 640.

THE

CIRCUIT.

Argued March 10, 11, 1936.-Decided April 6, 1936.

1. The day before a registration statement filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission would have become "effective" under
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Commission began a
proceeding under § 8 (d) of the Act challenging the truth and
sufficiency of the statement and notified the registrant to appear at
a hearing some weeks later and show cause why a stop order should
not issue suspending its effectiveness. Thereafter, the Commis-ion's subpoena was served on the registrant commanding him to
appear and testify and bring designated books and papers. The
registrant then gave formal notice that his statement was withdrawn and submitted motiorls to quash the subpoena, which he
declijed to obey, and to dismiss the proceeding. The Commission,
howevrFr, persisted in the investigation and obtained from the
District Court, under § 22 (b) of the Act, an order requiring he
registrant to appear before the Commission and answer questions.
Held:
(1) That the stop order proceeding was analogous to a suit for
an injunctfon; so that, while it was pending, the effectiveness of
the registration statement was suspended and the registrant, if he
acted uider it, would act at his peril. P. 15.
(2) Arbitrary power to forbid withdrawal of such statements is
not conferred upon the Commission by the statute. P. 18.
(3) .The power of the Commission to prevent withdrawal is no
greater than that of the courts to prevent dismissal by a pl.intiff
o his complaint at law or bill in equity. P. 18.

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

298 U.S.

(4) A rule of the Commission declaring that any registration
statement may be withdrawn "if the Commission consents" and
that such consent shall be given "with due regard to the public
interest and the protection of investors" implies that withdrawal
of a statement not as yet effective is of right if no prejudice will
result to the public or to investors. P. 21.
(5) The filing of a registration statement under the Securities
-Act is in effect an ex parte application for a license to use the mails
and the facilities of interstate commerce for the purposes recog-'
nized by the Act. Withdrawal of the application before it has
become effective can not affect any right of the general public, nor
can it be said to prejudice investors, when, as in this case, no step
towards the issuance of the securities sought to be registered has
been taken and no investor, actual or potential, in such securities,
is shown to exist. P. 22.
(6) The registrant's right to withdraw his statement was unqualified; and the Commission's proceeding, limited to the purpose of determining whether the effectiveness of the statement
should be suspended, was terminated by the withdrawal. P. 23.
(7) After the withdrawal, no authority for the enforcement of
the subpoena could be exercised by court order under § 22 (b) of
the Act. P. 23.
(8) The stop order proceeding, having been ended by the withdrawal, could afford no basis for continuing the inquisition under
a general power claimed by the Commission under § 19 (b).
P. 25.
2. After a defendant has been notified of the pendency of a suit
seeking an injunction against him, even though a temporary injunction be not granted, he acts at his peril and subject to the
power of the court to restore the status quo ante, wholly irrespective of the merits as they may be ultimately adjudged. P. 15.
3. In the federal tribunals a plaintiff has the unqualified right, unless otherwise provided by a specific rule of court, to dismiss his
complaint at law or bill in equity, if no plain legal prejudice will
result to the defendant other than the mere prospect of a second
litigation upon the same subject matter. P. 19.
4. To the extent that the mere will of an official or of an official
body is permitted to take the place of allowable official discretion,
or to supplant the standing law as a rule of conduct, the Government ceases to be one of laws and becomes an autocracy. The
courts,,in the performance of their duties, must be ever vigilant to
detect and turn aside this danger at its beginnings. P. 23.

JONES v. SECURITIES COMMISSION.
Argument for Respondent.

1

5. Arbitrary power and the rule of the Constitution can not both
exist. Our institutions must be kept free from all assumptions of
such power, whether by the three primary departments of the
Government or by lesser agencies. P. 24.
6. An official inquisition to compel disclosures of fact is not an end,
but a means to an end; and it is a mere truism to say that the
end must be a legitimate one to justify the means. P. 25.
7. A citizen, when interrogated about his private affairs, has a right
before answering to know why the inquiry is made; and if the
purpose disclosed is not a legitimate one, he may not be compelled
to answer. P. 25.
8. An investigation not based upon specified grounds is quite as objectionable as a search warrant not based upon specific statements
of fact. Such an investigation, or such a search, is unlawful in its
inception and can not be made lawful by what it might bring, or
by what it actually brings, to light. P. 27.
9. The philosophy that constitutional limitations and legal restraints
may be brushed aside upon the plea that good, perchance, may
follow, i9nds no countenance in the American system of government. P. 27.
10. The constitutionality of the Securities Act of 1933 is not considered in this case. P. 28.
79 F. (2d) 617, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 297 U. S. 699, to review the affirmance of

an order of the District Court, 12 F. Supp. 210, requiring
the present petitioner to appear and testify before the
Securities & Exchange Commission.
Messrs. Harry 0. Glasser and James M. Beck, with
whom Messrs. Bainbridge Colby, J. N. Saye, and H. I.

Fishbach were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. John J.

Burns, General Counsel, Securities &

Exchange Commission, and Solicitor General Reed, with
whom Messrs. Charles E. Wyzanski, Jr., and Alger Hiss
were on the brief, for respondent.
The registration statement filed by the petitioner

became effective by operation of law despite petitioner's
attempts to withdraw it. The Commission properly

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Respondent.

298 U.S.

refused to permit withdrawal pursuant to a valid regulation which is authorized both by § 19 (a) of the Act and
by the inherent power of the Commission, as a quasijudicial tribunal, to limit the right of petitioner to terminate the proceedings before the Commission.
In effect, the regulation merely imposes a reasonable
condition upon'the right of the registrant to terminate the
orderly procedure which he has set in motion by the filing
of his registration statement. Analogous rules regulating
the voluntary dismissal of bills of complaint have long
been familiar in courts of equity. In the federal practice,
the complainant must move for an order of dismissal and
let the court fix the terms. American Zylonite Co. v. Celluloid ManufacturingCo., 32 Fed. 809. And a local equity
rule which allows the court to refuse a plaintiff permission to discontinue his action where justice so requires,
even though the defendant can not have affirmative relief
under the pleadings and though his only prejudice is a
possible second suit, has been adjudged valid. Bronx
Brass Foundry v. Irving Trust Co., 297 U. S. 230; Young
v. Southern Pacific Co., 25 F. (2d) 630. Irrespective of
the rule which may be applicable if no regulation of the
complainant's right to withdraw exists (see Ex parte
Skinner & Eddy Corp., 265 U. S. 86), a regulation limiting
that right is procedural and within the power of a quasijudicial tribunal such as the respondent.
The standard applied in this regulation-"with due
regard for the public interest and the protection of investors"-is consonant with the spirit and purpose of the
whole Act, and some limitation on the right of a registrant
to withdraw is necessary for the effective administration
of the Act. It is obvious that a registration statement
ceases to be effective upon withdrawal, and can thus be no
longer the suibject of a stop order hearing, which can only
result in an crdcr suspending the effectiveness of the
statement.

JONES v. SECURITIES COMMISSION.
Argument for Respondent.

To allow a registrant an unqualified privilege of withdrawal, with the consequent ability to terminate any stop
order hearing or to prevent such a hearing, would seriously embarrass the work of the Commission. Such a
broad privilege would permit the registrant to avoid, in
large part, the registration requirements of the Act, by
filing a registration statement with such limited information as he chose to give, withdrawing it when its deficiencies were detected, and repeating the process ad infinitum
in the hope that by perseverance he might escape the
vigilance of the examiner.
Of even greater significance is the fact that stop order
hearings in regard to particular registration statements,
and the final orders and opinions based thereon, constitute the most effective of the methods by which the Commission is to insure the accuracy and completeness of
registration statements in general. The Commission
may, it is true, investigate pursuant to § 19 (b), and if it
finds that the matters set out in the registration statement are false or incomplete, it may enjoin the continuance of this violation, or recommend criminal prosecution if the violation be willful. These, however, are
extraordinary remedies requiring resort to the courts;
they are not to be lightly undertaken and are to be used
only in exceptionial cases.
The publication of this regulation satisfied the requiremnents of § 19 (a) of the Act and was clearly adequate to
give reasonable notice of its promulgation. Petitioner
does not claim he was ignorant of the regulation. The
Act does not improperly delegate legislative power to the
Commission, for the power to regulate the minutiae of
its own procedure may certainly be delegated to a quasijudicial tribunal
The regulation was properly applied in this case, for the
Commission was not required to find that its refusal to
permit withdrawal of the statement was in the public in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Respondent.

298 U.S.

terest and for the protection of investors. Such a finding is a preliminary determination of fact resting in the
discretion of the Commission; no principle of law requires
a finding by a court or an administrative tribunal prior to
the application of an interlocutory procedural regulation.
It follows that petitioner's registration statement is
still effective, and the stop order hearing thereon, in
which the petitioner was subpoenaed to testify, is still
pending before the Commission. Sections 8 (d) and 8 (e)
of the Act expressly authorize subpoenas duces tecum
in such a hearing, so that the less onerous subpoena
ad testificandum must also be authorized. This follows,
too, from the finality attributed to the findings of the
Commission on review by a Circuit Court of Appeals
(§ 9). Even though the Commission may issue a stop
order if the issuer refuses to testify, this is not the only
remedy available, for such a construction would work an
injustice in some cases. In any event, § 8 is implemented
by § 19 (b), expressly authorizing subpoenas in all investigations necessary for the enforcement of the Act.
Petitioner's claim that the Commission is engaged on a
"fishing expedition" is rebutted by the notice of the stop
order hearing, specifying in detail the items in the registration statement on which information is desired, and by
the order of the District Court, requiring petitioner to
testify only as to pertinent matters.
For purposes of determining the validity of the present
order the only section which is material is § 5 (a). Since
petitioner did not wait for specific questions to be put to
him, but flatly refused to appear before the Commission,
he must demonstrate that there is no question which the
Commission validly might ask concerning his registration
statement. Bevan \v. Krieger,289 U. S. 459, 465; Blair v.
United States, 250 U. S. 273. Similarly, to sustain the
validity of the present order, the Commission need only
show that there is some purpose for which the Commis-

JONES v. SECURITIES COMMISSION.

7

Argument for Respondent.

sion can validly require that petitioner appear before the
Commission for questioning upon matters contained in
his registration statement.
An analysis of § 5 (a) reveals that the section does not
purport to require registration of a security as a condition
precedent to every transaction concerning that security.
Registration is required as a condition precedent only to
such transactions relating to the sale of the security as
involve (1) the use of the mails; (2) the'use of means or
instruments of transportation in interstate commerce;
and (3) the use of means or instruments of communication in interstate commerce.
It is plain that if the Congress has constitutional power
to require registration as a condition precedent to any one
of these courses of action, the requirement as applied to
petitioner is valid. It is further evident that if registration may properly be required, reasonable examination of
registrants in connection with such registration is lawful.
Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447;
Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Baird, 194 U. S. 25, 42.
The postal power of Congress is a plenary one and
under it Congress has wide discretion as to the matter
which shall be carried afd that which shall be excluded
from the -mails. This power is not limited to excluding
only that matter which might be injurious to the postal
service or personnel, for in numerous cases this Court
has sustained statutes excluding from the mails matter
deemed injurious to the public, such as lottery tickets,
obscene matter, and communications in furtherance of a
scheme to defraud. Ex parte Jackson, 96 U. S. 727; Ex
parte Rapier, 143 U. S. 110; Badders v. United States,
240 U. S. 391; United States v. Chase, 135 U. S. 255;
Public Clearing House v. Coyne, 194 U. S. 497, 508;
Homer v. United States, 143 U. S.207, 570; Coonzer v.
United States, 213 Fed. 1; U. S. ex rel. Milwaukee Publishing Co. v. Burleson, 255 U. S.407. The requirements

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Respondent.

298 U.S.

of § 5 in issue in the present case are another instance of
the exercise of the established power of Congress to close
the mails to matter which it deemed contrary to the public welfare, and are thus amply sustained by these cases.
Congress may exclude securities which themselves contain misstatements. Congress may also exclude such securities if they are an integral part of a scheme to defraud.
Further, Congress may require registration of all securities since this is reasonably necessary to make effective
the exercise of its regulatory power. Finally, that the Act
will not bar from the mails all harmful securities is no objection to its validity; Congress may certainly limit the
exercise of its power to the particular type of evil here
involved, namely, the failure to disclose the true character
of securities.
Petitioner contends that § 5 (a) of the Act conflicts
with the Tenth Amendment. This Court has, however,
several times pointed out that Congress need not have
power to deal with crime or immorality within the States
in order to forbid the use of the mails in furthering such
activities. Nor does the Act, as petitioner contends, apply
to persons rather than to objects mailed, although even if
it be so construed, its constitutionality is clearly sustained
by previous decisions of this Court. Petitioner's final contention that a requirement of registration violates the due
process clause of the Fifth Amendment is unsound, for
such a requirement in slate securities acts has frequently
been sustained by this Court, and a substantially similar
requirement was upheld in connection with the power of
Congress to classify mailable matter.
In support of its contention that the registration pro-

visions of the Securities Act arc a valid exercise of the
commerce power of Congress, respondent submits that
(1) securities are subjects of commerce, and (2) a prohibifion against the interstate transportation of unregistered
securities is within the regulatory power of Congress.

JONES v. SECURITIES COMMISSION.
1

Opinion of the Court.

Securities are "subjects of commerce" not only because
they are so treated by ordinary business usage and state
legislation, but also because they comply with the applicable legal standards formulated in the Lottery Case, 188
U. S. 321, and the insurance cases. Cf. New York Life
Ins. Co. v. Deer Lodge County, 231 U. S. 495, 508; Paul
v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168, 183; International Textbook Co.
v. Pigg,217 U. S. 91. If they are transported across state
lines without being truthfully described they may injure
persons in the State of destination.
The prevention of the spread of evil across state lines
and the prohibition against the use of the facilities of
interstate commerce as an agency to promote dishonesty
are shown by prior decisions to be within the scope of
congressional regulatory power. Lottery Case, 188 U. S.
321; Hipolite Egg Co. v. United States, 220 U. S. 45;
Brooks v. United States, 267 U. S. 42; Caminetti v.
United States, 242 U. S. 470. Since in the Securities Act
the regulatory power has been used merely to require a
disclosure of the character of subjects carried and not to
affect their local production, the Act does not fall within
the prohibition of the Tenth Amendment nor of Hammer
v. Dagenhart, 247 U. S. 251. The particular form of
securities regulation involved in registration has already
been held to afford due process in the substantially similar field of state Blue Sky legislation. See Caldwell v.
Sioux Falls Stock Yards Co., 242 U. S. 559; Merrick v.
Halsey & Co., 242 U. S. 568; cf. Hall v. Geiger-Jones, 242
U. S. 539.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case arises under "The Securities Act of 1933," c.
38, 48 Stat. 74, U. S. C. Title 15, § 77a et seq., as amended
by act of June 6, 1934, c. 404, 48 Stat. 881. Prior to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

amendment, the act was administered by the Federal
Trade Commission; but by § 210, 48 Stat. 908, the administration was transferred to the respondent.
The act, § 2 (4), defines the term "issuer" as including every person who issues or proposes to issue any
security, with certain exceptions. Section 6 (a) of the
act provides-"Any security may be registered with the
Commission under the terms and conditions hereinafter
provided, by filing a registration statement in triplicate,
at least one of which shall be signed by each issuer . . ."
The filing of the registration statement must be accompanied by the payment to the commission of a fee measured by the maximum aggregate price at which the securities are to be offered. The information contained in the
statement is to be made available to the public under
such regulations as the commission may prescribe. The
act prescribes in detail the character of information which
is to be set out in the statement. Elaborate provisions
are made in respect of liability on account of false registration statements, etc., and penalties are imposed for
willful violations of any of the provisions of the act, or
the rules and regulations promulgated by the commission
under authority thereof, and for willfully untrue statements of material facts or omissions to state material
facts. Section 5 (a) provides that unless a registration
statement is in effect as to a security, it shall be unlawful
for any person directly or indirectly to make use of the instrumentalities of interstate commerce or of the mails to
sell or offer to buy such security, etc., or to transport any
such security for sale or for delivery after sale.
"Sec. 8 (a) The effective date of a registration statement shall be the twentieth day after the filing thereof,
except as hereinafter provided, . .
"(d) If it appears to the Commission at any time that
the registration statement includes any untrue statement
of a material fact or omits to state any material fact

JONES v. SECURITIES COMMISSION.
I

Opinion of the Court.

required to be stated therein or necessary to make the
statements therein not misleading, the Commission may,
after notice by personal service or the sending of confirmed telegraphic notice, and after opportunity for hearing (at a time fixed by the Commission) within fifteen
days after such notice by personal service or the sending
of such telegraphic notice, issue a stop order suspending
the effectiveness of the registration statement.
"(e) The Commission is hereby empowered to make an
examination in any case in order to determine whether
a stop order should issue under subsection (d). In making such examination the Commission or any officer or
officers designated by it shall have access to and may
demand the production of any books and papers of, and
may administer oaths and affirmations to and examine,
the issuer, underwriter, or any other person, in respect
of any matter relevant to the examination, and may, in
its discretion, require the production of a balance sheet
exhibiting the assets and liabilities of the issuer, or its
income statement, or both, to be certified to by a public
or certified accountant approved by the Commission.
If the issuer or underwriter shall fail to co6perate, or
shall obstruct or refuse to permit the making of an examination, such conduct shall be proper ground for the
issuance of a stop order."
Section 19 (b) provides that for the purpose of all
investigations which the commission think necessary and
proper for the enforcement of the act, any member of
the commission or any designated officer may administer
oaths and affirmations, subpoena witnesses, take evidence,
and require the production of books, papers, etc. Section
22 (b) provides that in case of contumacy or refusal to
obey a subpoena issued [by authority of the commission]
to any person, the district courts of the United States
and others named, upon application by the commission,
may issue to such person an order requiring him to appear

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

before the commission or one of its examiners, and there
produce documentary evidence and give evidence touching the matter in question.
May 4, 1935, petitioner filed with the commission a
registration statement in pursuance of § 6 (a) of the act,
covering a proposed issue of participation trust certificates. This registration statement under the terms of the
act was to become effective 20 days later. On the 19th
day, however; the commission, having already directed
that stop-order proceedings be instituted, pursuant to
§ 8 (d), sent petitioner a telegraphic notice reciting that
the registration statement appeared to contain untrue
statements of material facts and to omit material facts
required and necessary and fixing a hearing at the office
of the commission for Thursday, June 6, 1935, "at which
time and place registrant may appear and shoW cause
why a stop order should not be issued suspending the
effectiveness of such registration statement." The hearing was postponed until June 18th.
On June 13, a subpoena duces tecum was issued coinmanding petitioner to appear before an officer of the commission on the 18th to testify with respect to his registration statement and to bring with him designated books,
records and papers, listed as follows: "General ledger,
subsidiary ledgers, journal, cash book, books of account
and financial statements of J. Edward Jones; general
ledger, journal, cash book and books of account of J.
Edward Jones relating to J. Edward Jones Royalty Trust,
Series 'M'; all contracts, agreements and correspondence
of J. Edward Jones relating to the distribution of Participation Trust Certificates in J. Edward Jones Royalty
Trust, Series 'M'; all correspondence and communications of J. Edward Jones with any State authority relating to the distribution of Participation Trust Certificates in .J. Edward Jones Royalty Trust, Series 'M.'"

JONES v. SECURITIES COMMISSION.
1

Opinion of the Court.

June 18, in a written conmmunication to the commission, petitioner formally withdrew his application for
registration, assigning as a reason, among others, that
the commission's action had been given widespread publicity and placed him in a situation to be severely damaged. The same day, his counsel appeared before the
examiner for the commission and presented this written
withdrawal, which was marked for identification, but excluded from consideration. On June 27, counsel for petioner appeared again before the examiner, and filed a
dismissal signed by petitioner dismissing "his registration statement heretofore filed" and withdrawing "all
application for consideration thereof or action thereon."
At the same time, petitioner's counsel filed a motion
to dismiss and for an order from the commission permitting the withdrawal of the registration statement
and dismissing the registration proceeding and all matters pertaining thereto at petitioner's cost, and also a
motion to quash the subpoena which had been issued and
served on petitioner. The examiner acting for the commission denied the motions and refused to allow the withdrawal, no reason for his action being assigned. In so
doing, the commission and its examiner assumed to act
under and in conformity with a regulation of the commission which provides as follows:
"Any registration statement or any amendment thereto may be withdrawn upon the request of the registrant
if the Commission consents thereto. The fee paid upon
the filing of such registration statement shall not be returned to the registrant. The papers comprising the registration statement or amendment thereto shall not'be
removed from the files of the Commission but shall be
plainly marked with the date of the giving of such consent and in the following manner: 'Withdrawn upon the
Request of the Registrant, the Commission consenting

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

thereto.' Such consent shall be given by the Commission with due Tegard to the public interest and the protection of investors."
On June 28th, petitioner filed with the court below a
petition asking for a review of the commission's rulings
which that court dismissed for lack of jurisdiction. A
petition for a writ of certiorari to review that action was
denied by this court. 297 U. S. 705.
July 3, 1935, the commission filed an application in a
federal district court for an order requiring petitioner to
appear before the examiner to give evidence in the matter of petitioner's registration statement. Petitioner appeared and challenged, among other things, the validity
of the orders of the commission denying petitioner's right
to withdraw his registration statement, overruling his
motions to withdraw and dismiss the proceedings and
refusing to quash the subpoena which had been issued
and served on petitioner. The district court denied petitioner's contentions and entered an order directing him
to appear before the commission at a time and place
fixed, to testify in the matter of the registration statement and to answer all pertinent questions regarding the
information and documents filed by him with the commission in respect of such statement. 12 F. Supp. 210.
On appeal, the court of appeals affirmed this order. 79
F. (2d) 617.
The principal points urged by petitioner as ground for
reversing the judgment below, and the only ones that
need be stated, are as follows: That the commission
was bound as matter of law to sustain petitioner's withdrawal of and motion to withdraw the registration statement; that the right to withdraw such statement under
the circumstances disclosed was unqualified; that the
commission, therefore, was without authority to require
petitioner to appear and testify or to submit his private
books, records, and papers for the inspection of the com-

JONES v. SECURITIES COMMISSION.
1

Opinion of the Court.

mission; that the Securities Act is unconstitutional, because it constitutes an attempt to exercise powers reserved
to the states; and that it finds no warrant in either the
commerce clause or in the power to regulate the use of the
mails under the constitutional authority to establish post
offices and post roads, or in any other provision of the
federal Constitution.
First. By § 8 (d), when it appears to the commission
that any untrue statement of a material fact has been
made in the registration statement, or material facts
have been omitted which are required or necessary to
make the statements therein not misleading, the commission may institute an inquiry to determine whether a
stop order shall issue suspending the effectiveness of the
registration statement. Proceeding under that section,
as we have seen, the commission, before the registration
statement was to become effective by the terms of § 8
(a), directed that a stop-order proceeding be instituted,
and caused to be served on petitioner a telegraphic notice
fixing a time for him to "appear and show cause why a
stop order should not be issued suspending the effectiveness of such registration statement."
Such a proceeding is analogous to a suit in equity to
obtain an injunction, and should be governed-by like
considerations. Applying those considerations, then,.what
was the status of the registration statement pending the
inquiry under § 8 (d)? Notwithstanding the provision
of § 8 (a), that the effective date of a registration statement shall be the twentieth day after it is filed, did this
intervening action of the commission nevertheless have
'the effect of suspending the effective operation of the
statement pending the hearing and determination of the
stop-order proceeding? We are of opinion that it did
have that effect. The rule is well settled, both by the
courts of England and of this country, that where a suit
is brought to enjoin certain acts or activities, for example,

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

the erection of a building or other structure, of which
suit the defendant has notice, the hands of the defendant are effectually tied pending a hearing and determination, even though no restraining order or-'preliminary
injunction be issued. We briefly review some of the
decisions.
In Daniel v. Ferguson, L. R. [1891] 2 Ch. 27, suit had
been brought to restrain defendant from building so as to
darken plaintiff's lights. Notice of motion for a temporary injunction to be made upon a designated future day
was served on the defendant. After receiving notice, the
defendant put on a large number of men and proceeded
with his building, running a wall up to a height of about
39 feet from the ground before the injunction was
granted. The court, without regard to the ultimate rights
of the parties, held that the wall thus run up by defendant
slipuld be torn down at once, as an attempt to anticipate
the order of the court. A like situation was presented in
Von Joel v. Hornscy, L. R. [1895] 2 Ch. 774. In that
case, the evidence showed that defendant had repeatedly
evaded attempts to serve him with process, and in the
meantime had gone on with the building. Again, without regard to the ultimate rights of the parties, the court
directed defendant to pull down that part of the building
thus erected.
The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania in several cases
has followed the same rule. Clark v. Martin, 49 Pa. 289,
298-299; Easton Passenger Ry. Co. v. Easton, 133 Pa.
505, 519; 19 Atl. 486; Cooke v. Boynton, 135 Pa. 102; 19
Atl. 944; Meigs v. Milligan, 177 Pa. 66, 72, 76; 35 Atl.
600; Fredericks v. Huber, 180 Pa. 572, 575; 37 AtI. 90.
In Cooke v. Boynton, a bill in equity had been filed praying for a preliminary and perpetual injunction preventing defendants from interfering with a certain tramway of
the plaintiff. Before a preliminary injunction was obtained, the defendants, on three separate occasions, had

JONES v. SECURITIES COMMISSION.
1

Opinion of the Court.

torn up the track which the plaintiffs had replaced. The

third incident occurred while plaintiff was obtaining a
preliminary injunction. The court said, "The writ was

served just as they had finished the work of demolition,
and this coincidence is strongly suggestive of a race
against the law." The trial court had dissolved the injunction, in part on the ground that the act sought to be
restrained had already been done, and that it was without
power at that stage of the cause to restore the property to

its former condition by mandatory injunction. The supreme court reversed. "What we did in the Easton case,"
the court said, p. 110, "we will do here. We will restore

the injunction, without passing upon the merits of the
case. They will be considered when it comes here upon

final hearing."
In New Haven Clock Co. v. Kochersperger, 175 Ill.
383; 51 N. E. 629, the state supreme court held that the
forced payment of a tax after the court has acquired
jurisdiction of a bill to enjoin its collection may be restored by the court, even though no preliminary injunction was granted; and that such payment cannot be
availed of as a defense upon the ground that the tax having been paid there is nothing to enjoin. The same court
in Turney v. Shriver, 269 Ill. 164, 172; 109 N. E. 708,
held the rule to be that "where a bill for injunction has
been filed and the court has acquired jurisdiction of both
the person and the subject matter of the suit and the
defendant does any act which the bill seeks to enjoin,
such party acts at his peril and subject to the power of
the court to compel a restoration of the status, . . ." See
also, Konig v. M. & C. C. of Balto., 126 Md. 606, 627;
95 Atl. 478.
The conclusion to be drawn from all the cases is that
after a defendant has been notified of the pendency of
a suit seeking an injunction against him, even though
a temporary injunction be not granted, he acts at his
6577:*-6-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

peril and subject to the power of the court to restore the
status, wholly irrespective of the merits as they may be
ultimately decided. 1 High on Injunctions (4th ed.),

§ 5 (a).
We hold the principle of this rule to be applicable
to the present case. When proceedings were instituted
by the commission and the registrant was notified and
called upon to show cause why a stop order should not be
issued, the practical effect was to suspend, pending the
inquiry, all action of the registrant under his statement.
Unless the registration statement is effective, the issuer
of a security who makes use of the mails or of the instrumentalities of interstate commerce to sell the security
or to carry the same for the purposes of sale or delivery
after sale, § 5 (a) of the act, is liable to severe penalties
of fine and imprisonment. § 24. The word "effective,"
as here employed, connotes complteness of operative
force and freedom to act. And a registration statement
which, while still in fieri, is brought under official challenge in respect of its validity and subjected to an official
proceeding aimed at its destruction, cannot be so characterized until the challenge is determined in favor of the
registrant. In the meantime, since he can act only at his
peril, the registration statement can in no real sense be
called effective.
Second. In this situation, does a registrant have the
unqualified right to withdraw his registration statement
or, in other words, to dismiss a pending proceeding by
which, for his own advantage, he is seeking the use of
the mails and the instrumentalities of interstate commerce? If he have such right, there is no basis for the
exercise of discretion in respect of the matter on the part
of the commission; for it is obvious that discretion does
not exist where there is no power to act except in one
way. Cf. Detroit v. Detroit City Ry. Co., 55 Fed. 569,
573; Ex parte Skinner & Eddy Corp., 265 U. S. 86, 93.

JONES v. SECURITIES COMMISSION.
I

Opinion of the Court.

The act contains no provision upon the subject; and it
may not be construed as attempting to confer upon the
commission an arbitrary power, under rule or otherwise,
to deny, without reason, a motion to dismiss. We are
unable to find any precedent for the assumption of such
power on the part of an administrative body; and we go
to the practice and rules of the courts in order to determine by analogy the scope and limit of the power; for,
at least in the absence of a statute to the contrary, the
power of a commission to refuse to dismiss a proceeding
on motion -of the one who instituted it cannot be greater
than the power which may be exercised by the judicial
tribunals of the land under similar circumstances. Both
parties here seem to recognize the appositeness of this
test.
The general rule is settled for the federal tribunals
that a plaintiff possesses the unqualified right to dismiss
his complaint at law or his bill in equity unless some
plain legal prejudice will result to' the defendant other
than the mere prospect of a second litigation upon the
subject matter. Pullman's Palace Car Co. v. Transportation Co., 171 U. S. 138, 145-146. In announcing the
rule, this court approved and cited as authority the decision rendered by Chief Justice Taft, then circuit judge,
in Detroit v. Detroit City Ry. Co., 55 Fed. 569. The
opinion in the latter case, reviewing the English and
American authorities, states the rule as follows [p. 572]:
"It is very clear from an examination of the authorities, English and American, that the right of a complainant to dismiss his bill without prejudice, on payment of
The
costs, was of course except in certain cases.
exception was where a dismissal of the bill would prejudice the defendants in some other way than by the mere
prospect of being harassed and vexed by future litigation
of the same kind."

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

Chicago & Alton R. Co. v. Union Rolling Mill Co., 109
U. S. 702, 713-715; Barrett v. Virginian Ry. Co., 250 U. S.
473, 476; McGowan v. Columbia River Packers' Assn.,
245 U. S. 352, 358; Veazie v. Wadleigh, 11 Pet. 55, 61-62;
Confiscation Cases, 7 Wall. 454, 457-458. The foregoing
decisions, together with others, are reviewed in an opinion delivered by Chief Justice Taft in Ex parte Skinner
& Eddy Corp., 265 U. S. 86, and the conclusion stated as
follows:
"The right to dismiss, if it exists, is absolute. It does
not depend on the reasons which the plaintiff offers for
his action. The fact that he may not have disclosed all
his reasons or may not have given the real one can not
affect his right.
"The usual ground for denying a complainant in equity
the right to dismiss his bill without prejudice at his own
costs is that the cause has proceeded so far that the defendant is in a position to demand on the pleadings an
opportunity to seek affirmative relief and he would be
prejudiced by being remitted to a separate action. Having been put to the trouble of getting his counter case
properly pleaded and ready, he may insist that the cause
prbceed to a decree.
"The Government had not when the case was dismissed
given any time or expense to the preparation and filing
of a cross bill or of the evidence to sustain it. It had not
taken any action in respect to the cause which entitled
it to say that it would be prejudiced by a dismissal
within the meaning of the authorities. It suddenly was
awakened by the motion to dismiss to the fact that by
eighteen months' delay, it was losing a possible opportunity to litigate a cross claim in the Court of Claims and
without a jury. We think the same rule should obtain
in the procedure of the Court of Claims as in federal
courts of law and equity in respect to the dismissal of
cases without prejudice."

JONES v. SECURITIES COMMISSION.
1

Opinion of the Court.

The commission apparently concedes that in the absence of a regulation to the contrary, the foregoing general rule would be applicable. The commission, however,
relying upon our recent decision in Bronx Brass Foundry,
Inc. v. Irving Trust Co., 297 U. S. 230, contends that its
regulation, quoted ante, justifies the adverse action of the
commission. In the Brass Foundry case, proof of a claim
in bankruptcy had been filed. The trustee in bankruptcy
moved to expunge the claim on the ground that the
creditor had received certain payments on account which
constituted unlawful preferences: Several hearings were
held before the referee, and the evidence indicated that
the contention of the trustees was weg founded. Before
the hearing closed, the creditor filed a withdrawal of its
claim and abandoned the hearing. The trustee insisted
that it was entitled to an adjudication whether the payments made were unlawful preferences. The referee refused to permit a withdrawal of the claim; and his action was approved by the district court, and its judgment
in turn affirmed by the circuit court of appeals having
jurisdiction. We affirmed, holding that the general rule
as stated in Ex parte Skinner & Eddy Corp., supra, had
been modified by a rule of the district court which authorized the court to refuse, after issue joined, "to permit
the plaintiff to discontinue even though the defendant
cannot have affirmative relief under the pleadings, and
though his only prejudice be the Vexation and expense
of a possible second suit upon the same cause of action."
Assuming, without deciding, that the regulation of
the commission was within its power and in force, it
differs essentially from the foregoing rule of the district
court. As applied to this proceeding in which there are
no adversary parties, the regulation does not restrict the
common-Jaw rule. That rule, as we have seen, is that
the right to dismiss is unqualified unless the dismissal
would legally prejudice the defendants in some other

22

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

way than by future litigation of the same kind. The
regulation is "Any registration statement or any amendment thereto may be withdrawn upon the request of the
registrant if the commission consents thereto.
Such consent shall be given by the commission with due
regard to the public interest and the protection of investors." This regulation is quite as general as the rule
of the common law, and the possibility that the same
registration may be attempted in the future is not within
its terms any more than it is withirf the terms of the
common-law rule. The question under the regulation
is whether due regard to the public interest and the pro.tection of investors requires that the withdrawal be denied. The test is the absence or presence of, prejudice
to the public or investors; and, plainly enougn, under
the'decisions of this court, the doctrine that a dismissal
must be granted if no prejudice be shown beyond the
prospect of another suit, unless there be a specific rule
of court to the contrary, is applicable, and the withdrawal should have been allowed as of course.
We are unable to find anything in the record, the
arguments of the commission, or the decision of the court
below that suggests the possibility of any prejudic to
the public or investors beyond the assumption, as put
by the court below, 79 F. (2d) at p. 620, that "an unlimited privilege of withdrawal would have the effect
of allowing regjstrants whose statements are defective
to withdraw before a stop order was issued and then to
submit another statement with slight changes."
In this proceeding, there being no adversary parties,
the filing of the registration statement is in effect an ex
parte application for. a license to use the mails and the
facilities of interstate commerce for the purposes recognized by the act. We are unable to see how any right of
the general public can be affected by the withdrawal of
such an application before it has gone into effect. Peti-

JONES v. SECURITIES COMMISSION.
I

Opinion of the Court.

tioner emphatically says that no steps had been taken
looking to the issue of the securities; and this is not denied. So far as the record shows, there were no investors,
existing or potential, to be affected. The conclusion
seems inevitable that an abandonment of the application
was of no concern to anyone except the registrant. The
possibility of any other interest in the matter is so
shadowy, indefinite, and equivocal that it must be put
out of consideration as altogether unreal. Under these
circumstances, the right of the registrant to withdraw his
application would seem to be as absolute as the right of
any person to withdraw an ungranted application for any
other form of privilege in respect of which he is at the
time alone concerned.
An additional reason why the action of the commission
and of the court below cannot be sustained is that the
commission itself had challenged the integrity of the
registration statement and invited the registrant to show
cause why its effectiveness should not be suspended. In
the face of such an invitation, it is a strange conclusion
that the registrant is powerless to elect to save himself
the trouble and expense of a contest by withdrawing his
application. Such a withdrawal accomplishes everything
which a stop order would accomplish, as counsel for the
commission expressly conceded at the bar. And, as the
court below very properly recognized, a withdrawal of the
registration statement "would end the effect of filing it
and there is no authority under § 19 (b) to issue the Commission subpoena and it could not be enforced by order
of the district court under § 22 (b)." 79 F. (2d) 619.
The action of the commission finds no support in right
principle or in law. It is wholly unreasonable and arbitrary. It violates the cardinal pr6cept upon which the
constitutional safeguards of personal liberty ultimately
rest-that this shall be a government of laws-, because
to the precise extent that the mere will of an official or

OCTO3ER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

an official body is permitted to take the place of allowable official discretion or to supplant the standing law as
a rule of human conduct, the government ceases to be one
of laws and becomes an autocracy. Against the threat of
such a contingency the courts have always been vigilant,
and, if they are to perform their constitutional duties in
tho future, must never cease to be vigilant, to detect and
turn aside the danger at its beginning. The admonition
of Mr. Justice Bradley in Boyd v. United States, 116 U.
S. 616, 635, should never be forgotten: "It may be that
it is the obnoxious thing in its mildest and least repulsive
form; but illegitimate and unconstitutional practices get
their firet footing in that way, namely, by silent approaches and slight deviations from legal modes of procedure. . . . It is the duty of courts to be watchful for
the constitutional rights of the citizen, and against any
stealthy encroachments thereon. Their motto should 1e
obsta principiis."
Arbitrary power and the rule of the Constitution cannot both exist. They are antagonistic and incompatible
forces; and one or the other must of necessity perish
whenever they are brought into conflict. To borrow the
words of Mr. Justice Day-"there is no place in our constitutional system for the exercise of arbitrary power."
Garfield v. Goldsby, 211 U. S. 249, 262. To escape assumptions of such power on the part of the three primary
departments of the government, is not enough. Our institutions must be kept free from the appropriation of
unauthorized power by lesser agencies as well. And if
the various administrative bureaus and commissions,
necessarily called and being called into existence by the
increasing complexities of our modern business and political affairs, are permitted gradually to extend their
powers by encroachments---even petty encroachmentsupon the fundamental rights, privileges and immunities
of the people, we shall in the end, while avoiding the

JONES v. SECURITIES COMMISSION.
1

Opinion of the Court.

fatal consequences of a supreme autocracy, become submerged by a multitude of minor invasions of personal
rights, less destructive but no less violative of constitutional guaranties.
Third. The proceeding for a stop order having thus
disappeared, manifestly it cannot serve as a basis for the
order of the district court compelling petitioner to appear, give testimony, and produce his private books and
papers for inspection by the commission. But the commission contends that the order may rest upon the general power to conduct investigations which it says is conferred by § 19 (b). The difficulty with that is that the
investigation was undertaken for the declared and sole
purpose of determining whether a stop order should issue. The first action taken by the commission was on
May 20th, four days before the registration was to become effective under the statute. The commission then,
after averring that upon reasonable grounds it believed
the registration statement was false in material facts,
directed that stop-order proceedings be instituted against
the statement. It never has averred or directed anything
else. This action was followed by a notice containing
like recitals of a more detailed character, and calling upon
the registrant to appear and show cause why a stop
order should not be issued suspending the effectiveness
of the statement. It was upon this direction and notice
that all subsequent proceedings were had and upon which
they must stand or fall. We do not interpret the order of
the district court, the substance of which has already
been stated, as resting upon a different view.
Nothing appears in any of the proceedings taken by the
commission to warrant the suggestion that the investigation was undertaken or would be carried on for any
other purpose or to any different end than that specifically
named. An official inquisition to compel disclosures of
fact is not an end, but a means to an end; and it is

26

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

a mere truism to say that the end must be a legitimate
one to justify the means. The citizen, when interrogated
about his private affairs, has a right before answering to
know why the inquiry is made; and if the purpose disclosed is not a legitimate one, he may not be compelled
to answer. Since here the only disclosed purpose for
which the investigation was undertaken had ceased to be
legitimate when the registrant rightfully withdrew his
statement, the power of the commission to proceed with
the inquiry necessarily came to an end. Dissociated from
the only ground upon which the inquiry had been based,
and no other being specified, further pursuit of the inquiry, obviously, would become what Mr. Justice Holmes
characterized as "a fishing expedition . . . for the
chance that something discreditable might turn up"
(Ellis v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 237 U. S. 434,
445)-an undertaking which uniformly has met with judicial condemnation.: In re Pacific Ry. Comm'n, 32 Fed.
241, 250; Kilboum v. Thompson, 103 U. S. 168, 190, 192,
193, 195, 196; Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616; Harriman v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 211 U. S. 407,
419; Federal Trade Comm'n v. American Tobacco Co.,
264 U. S. 298, 305-307.
In re Pacific Ry. Comm'n involved the power of a
Congressional commission to investigate the private affairs, books and papers of officers and employees of certain corporations indebted to the government. That
commission called before it the president of one of these
corporations, required the production of private books
and papers for inspection, and submitted interrogatories
which the witness declined to answer. Acting under the
statute, the commission sought a peremptory order from
the circuit court to compel the witness to answer the
interrogatories. The court, 'consisting of Mr. Justice
Field, Circuit Judge Sawyer, and District Judge Sabin,
denied the motion of the district attorney foi the order

JONES v. SECURITIES COMMISSION.
1

Opinion of the Court.

and discharged the rule to show cause. Opinions were
rendered seriatim, the principal one by Justice Field.
The authority of the commission was definitely denied.
That decision has frequently been cited and approved
by this court. Judge Sawyer, in the course of his opinion
(at p. 263), after observing that a bill in equity seeking
a discovery upon general, loose and vague allegations is
styled "a fishing bill," and will, at once, be dismissed
on that ground (Story, Eq. P1. § 325), said: "A general,
roving, offensive, inquisitorial, compulsory investigation,
conducted by a commission without any allegations, upon
no fixed principles, and governed by no rules of law,
or of evidence, and no restrictions except its own will,
or caprice, is unknown to our constitution and laws;
and such an inquisition would be destructive of the rights
of the citizen, and an intolerable tyranny. Let the
power once be established, and there is no knowing,
where the practice under it would end."
The fear that some malefactor may go unwhipped of
justice weighs as nothing against this just and strong
condemnation of a practice so odious. And, indeed, the
fear itself has little of substance upon which to rest.
The federal courts are open to the government; and the
grand jury abides as the appropriate constitutional medium for the preliminary investigation of crime and the
presentment of the accused for trial.
The philosophy that constitutional limitations and legal restraints upon official action may be brushed aside
upon the plea that good, perchance, may follow, finds no
countenance in the American system of government. An
investigation not based upon specified grounds is quite as
objectionable as a search warrant not based upon specific
statements of fact. Such an investigation, or such a
search, is unlawful in its inception and cannot be made
lawful by what it may bring, or by what it actually succeeds in bringing, to light. Cf. Byars v. United States,

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

273 U. S. 28, 29, and cases cited. If the action here of
the commission be upheld, it follows that production and
inspection may be enforced not only of books and private
papers of the guilty, but those of the innocent as well,
notwithstanding the proceeding for registration, so far as
the power of the commission is concerned, has been
brought to an end by the complete and legal withdrawal
of the registration statement.
Exercise of "such a power would be more pernicious to
the innocent than useful to the public"; and approval of
it must be denied, if there were no other reason for denial, because, like an unlawful search for evidence, it
falls upon the innocent as well as upon the guilty and
unjustly confounds the two. Entick v. Carrington, 19
Howell's St. Trials, 1030, 1074-followed by this court in
Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616, 629-630. No one,
can read these two great opinions, and the opinions in
the Pacific Ry. Comm'n case, from which the foregoing
quotation is made, without perceiving how closely allied
in principle are the three protective rights of the individual-that against compulsory self-accusation, that
against unlawful searches and seizures, and that against
unlawful inquisitorial investigations. They were among
those intolerable abuses of the Star Chamber, which
brought that institution to an end at the hands of the
Long Parliament in 1640. Even the shortest step in the
direction of curtailing one of these rights must br halted
in limine, lest it serve as a precedent for further advances
in the same direction, or for wrongful invasions of the
others.
Fourth. The foregoing disposes of the case and requires a reversal of the judgment of the lower court. In
that view, it becomes unnecessary to consider the constitutional validity of the act.
Reversed.

JONES v. SECURITIES COMMISSION.
CARDOZO, J., dissenting.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO,

dissenting.

I am unable to concur in the opinion of the court.
A subpoena duces tecum was issued by the Commission
on June 13 before any attempt had been made to withdraw the registration statement. On June 18, the day
of the attempted withdrawal, there was issued a second
subpoena commanding the registrant to appear and testify,
and this was served upon him by the Marshal. Then
and for months earlier a standing Regulation gave warning to him and to the world that without the consent of
the Commission there could be no withdrawal of a statement once placed upon the files. I am persuaded that
the Rule is valid; that the Commission had abundant
reasons for maintaining jurisdiction; and that notice of
withdrawal did not nullify the writ.
The subpoena flouted by the witness was issued under
§ 19 (b) of the statute as well as under § 8 (e). So the
sworn petition for the Commission explicitly informs us.
It was issued in aid of any legitimate inquiry that the
Commission had authority to initiate and prosecute by
reason of a false and defective statement then part of
the official records. Nothing in the case gives color to
the argument that the witness was to be subjected to a
roving examination without the restraints of pleadings or
bounds analogous thereto. On the contrary, the order of
the District Court upholding the subpoena directs him to
make answer to questions pertinent to the documents
already filed with the Commission, to these and nothing
more. If the petitioner is to prevail in his attack upon
the writ, it will have to be on broader grounds than those
of form and method. He must be able to make good his
argument that by the mere announcement of withdrawal, he achieved results analogous to those of a writ
of prohibition.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
CARDOZO,

J., dissenting.

298 U.S.

Recklessness and deceit do not automatically excuse
themselves by notice of repentance. Under § 24 of the
Act, there is the possibility, at times the likelihood, of
penal liability. A statement wilfully false or wilfully
defective is a penal offense to be visited, upon conviction,
with fine or imprisonment. Under § 12, there is the possibility, if not the likelihood, of liability for damages.
The statement now in question had, been effective for
over twenty days, and the witpess did not couple his
notice of withdrawal with an affidavit or even a declaration that securities had not been sold. Nor is the statute
lacking in machinery with which to set these liabilities
in motion upon appropriate occasion. Under § 19 (b),
plenary authority is conferred on the Commission to conduct all investigations believed to be necessary and
proper for the enforcement of the Act and of any of
its provisions. There will be only partial attainment of
the ends of public justice unless retribution for the past
is added to prevention for the future. But the opinion
of the court teaches us that however flagrant the offense
and however laudable the purpose to uncover and repress
it, investigations under § 19 (b) will be thwarted on the
instant when once the statement of the registrant has
been effectively withdrawn. If that is so, or even indeed
if the effect of the retraction is to embarrass the inquiry-to cloud the power to continue-the fairness of
the Rule is proved out of the mouths of its accusers. If
such consequences are inherent in a privilege of withdrawal indiscriminately bestowed, there is need of some
restraint upon the power of the wrongdoer to mitigate
the penalties attaching to his wrong. Shall the truth be
shown forth or buried in the archives? The Commission is to determine in the light of all the circumstances,
indluding its information as to the conduct of the applicant, whether the public interest will be prompted by
forgetting and forgiving. . Bronx Brass Foundry, Inc. v.
Irving Trust Co., 297 U. S. 230.

JONES v. SECURITIES COMMISSION.
CARDOZO,

J., dissenting.

The objection is inadequate that an investigation directed to the discovery of a crime is one not for the Commission, but for the prosecuting officer. There are times
when the functions of the two will coincide or overlap.
Congress has made it plain that any inquiry helpful in
the enforcement of the statute may be pursued by the
Commission, though conduct punishable as a crime may
thereby be uncovered. Indeed, the Act is explicit-§ 22
(c)-that a witness is not excused from testifying on the
ground that the testimony required of him may tend to
incriminate him or expose him to a penalty or forfeiture.
He may, however, claim his privilege, and if then compelled to testify, may not be prosecuted thereafter for
any matter thus revealed. All this. is far from proving
that there can be no practical advantage in keeping" the
proceeding open. Aside from the possibility of civil liability, the offender may not choose to claim the privilege,
and even if he does, and is then excused from testifying,
other witnesses may be avail pble, for example, employes,
who are not implicated in the offense and who can bring
the facts to view. Moreover, amnesty for one offender
may mean conviction for another, an associate in the
crime. Inquiry by the Commission is thus more penetrating and efficient than one by a grand jury where there
is no statutory grant of amnesty to compel confederates
to speak. More important still, the enforcement of the
Act is aided when guilt is exposed to the censure of the
world, though the witness in the act of speaking may
make punishment impossible. It is no answer to all this
that upon the record now presented a crime has not been
proved or even definitely charged. An investigator is
not expected to prove or charge at the beginning the
offenses which he has reason to suspect will be uncovered
At the end. The petition in behalf of the Commission
enumerates one by one the false statements and the omissions imputed to the registrant. Some at least are of

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
CARDozo,

J., dissenting.

298 U.S.

such a nature that if chargeable to him at all, they can
hardly have been made otherwise than with criminal intent. To give the investigating officer an opportunity to
reach down into the hidden wells of knowledge and the
more hidden wells of motive is the very purpose of the
Regulation by which the proceeding is kept open after
the registrant has' tried to end it.
The opinion of the court reminds us of the danigers that
wait upon the abuse of power by officialdom unchained.
The warning is so fraught with truth that it can never be
untimely. But timely too is the reminder, as a host of
impoverished investors will be ready to attest, that there
are dangers in untruths and half truths when certificates
masquerading as securities pass current in the market.
There are dangers in spreading a belief that untruths and
half truths, designed to be passed on for the guidance of
confiding buyers, are to be ranked as peccadillos, or even
perhaps as part of the amenities of business. When
wrongs such as these have been committed or attempted,
they must be dragged to light and pilloried. To permit
an offending registrant to stifle an inquiry by precipitate
retreat on the eve of his exposure is to give immunity to
guilt;, to encourage falsehood and evasion; to invite the
cunning and unscrupulous to gamble with detection. If
withdrawal without leave may check investigation before
securities have been issued, it may do as much thereafter,
unless indeed consistency be thrown to the winds, for
by the teaching of the decision withdrawal without leave
is equivalent to a stop order, with the result that forthwith there is nothing to investigate. The statute and its
sanctions become the sport of clever knaves.
Appeal is vaguely made to some constitutional immunity, whether express or implied is not stated with distinctness. It cannot be an immunity from the unreasonable search or seizure of papers or effects: the books and
documents of the witness are unaffected by the challenged

JONES v. SECURITIES COMMISSION.
1

.CARDozo,

J., dissenting.

order. It cannot be an immunity from impertinent intrusion into matters of strictly personal- concern: the
intimacies of private business lose their self-regarding
quality after they have been spread upon official records
to induce official action. In such circumstances the relevance of Entick v. Carrington,19 Howell's St. Trials, 1030,
1074, or Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616, 629, or
In re Pacific Railway Comm'n, 32 Fed. 241, 250, is not
readily perceived. Cf. Interstate Commerce Comm'n v.
Brimson, 154 U. S. 447, 469, 478. If the immunity rests
upon some express provision of the Constitution, the
opinion of the court does not point us to the article or
section. If its source is to be found in some impalpable
essence, the spirit of the Constitution or the philosophy
of government favored by the Fathers, one may take
leave to deny that there is anything in that philosophy or
spirit whereby the signer of a statement filed with a regulatory body to induce official action is protected against
inquiry into his own purpose to deceive. The argument
for immunity lays hold of strange analogies. A Commission which is withoit coercive powers, which cannot
arrest or amerce or imprison though a crime has been uncovered, or even punish for contempt, but can only inquire and report, the propriety of every question in the
course of the inquiry being subject to the supervision of
the ordinary courts of justice, is likened with denunciatory fervor to the Star Chamber of the Stuarts. Historians may find hyperbole in the sanguinary simile.
The Rule now assailed was wisely conceived and lawfully adopted to foil the plans of knaves intent upon obscuring or suppressing the knowledge of their knavery.
The witness was under a duty to respond to the subpoena.
MR. JUSTIcE BRANDEIS

this opinion.
65-773 °--3

and MR.

JUSTICE STONE

join in

