OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

PREMIER-PABST SALES CO. v. GROSSCUP

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 745.

Argued April 27, 1936.-Decided May 18, 1936.

i. One who would attack a state statute as obnoxious to the Federal Constitution, must show that the alleged unconstitutional

feature injures him. P. 227.
2. The question whether a Pennsylvania law licensing the sale of beer
in that State discriminates unconstitutionally against those who
sell beer imported from without, by requiring of them a, higher
license fee and a bond of higher penal sum than are required
for sale of beer made locally,-held a question that could not be
raised by a corporation which was disqualified to sell any beer in
the State because its officers, directors and a majority of its shareholders were not local residents, as required by the state law.
P. 227.
3. A license to sell beer in a State may be revoked by the State.
P. 228.
12 F. Supp. 970, affirmed.
APPEAL from, a decree of the three-judge District Court
dismissing a bill to enjoin enforcement of a state law regu-

lating the sale of beer.
Messrs. M. J. Donnelly and C. J. Lynch, Jr., with whom
Messrs. C. S. Wesley and J. W. McWilliams were on the

brief, for appellant.
Mr. Charles J. Margiotti, Attorney General of Pennsylvania, Mr. Grover C. Ladner, Deputy Attorney General, and Mr. Horace A. Segelbaum were on the brief for

appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the
Court.

opinion of the

Premier-Pabst Sales Company, a Delaware corporation, is a distributor of beer made in Illinois and Wisconsin. Having secured a license issued under a statute

PREMIER-PABST CO. v. GROSSCUP.
226

227

Opinion of the Court.

of Pennsylvania enacted and amended in 1933, it engaged
in business there. That statute was again amended by
Act No. 398, approved July 18, 1935, which changed the
licensing law so as to discriminate between distributors
who sold beer made within the State and those who sold
imported beer. The annual license fee. of the former
was made $400, and the penalty of the bond required ofthem was at $1,000; the license fee of the latter was made
$900, and the penalty of the bond to be given by them
was set at $2,000.
The Company did not apply for a license under the
1935 Act. Instead, it filed, in the federal court for eastern
Pennsylvania, this suit against the Liquor Control Board
and other state officials. Claiming that the Act violated
the commerce clause and the equal protection clause of
the Federal Constitution, the bill prayed for a judginent declaring the Act void and for an injunction restraining its enforcement, The case was heard before
three judges upon application for a preliminary injunction. The facts we're stipulated; and it was agreed that
the hearing should be deemed also a final hearing upon
the application for a permanent injunction. The court
denied the injunctions and dismissed the bill as wanting
in equity, because the discrimination complained of was
authorized by the Twenty-first Amendment. 12 F.
Supp. 970. An appeal was allowed.
We have no occasion to consider the constitutional
question, because it appears that the plaintiff is without
standing to present it. One who would strike down a
state statute as obnoxious to the Federal Constitution
must show that the alleged unconstitutional feature injures him. Heald v. District of Columbia, 259 U. S. 114,
123. Under the Act of 1935, no one may sell beer in
Pennsylvania unless duly licensed; and no license may
issue to a corporation unless all its officers and directors,
and fifty-one per cent of its stockholders, have been resi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

dents of the State for the period of at least two years
prior to the application for a license. The constitutional
validity of that provision is conceded; and it was agreed
that all the officers and directors are, and were when the
suit was begun, non-residents of Pennsylvania, and that
all of its stock was, and is, held by another foreign corporation. As no license could legally issue to the Company in any event, it cannot be injured by the alleged
unconstitutional discrimination; and hence has no standing to challenge provisions of the Act.
The Company urges that it has a standing because, if
the 1935 Act is invalid, the license issued under the Act
of 1933 as amended is still in force. The 1933 Act also
prohibited the issue of a license to a corporation whose
officers and directors are non-residents. The Commonwealth insists that the Company's officers and directors
were non-residents when it secured its license. The stipulation as to the facts is silent on the subject; and the
Company argues that we must assume, in favor of
the validity of the license, that it whs then qualified to
receive one. We need not discuss the validity of that
contention. For even if the license was valid when
issued, the State had the power to terminate it. Mugler
v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623. And, as we construe the Act
of 1935, it did so.
Affirmed.

