GRAVES v. TEXAS COMPANY.
Argument for Appellants.

GRAVES, GOVERNOR OF ALABAMA, ET AL.. V.
TEXAS COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.

No. 727.

Argued April 2, 3, 1936.-Decided May 18, 1936.

1. A State may not tax sales of gasoline made to the United States.
Panhandle Oil Co. v. Mississippi,277 U. S. 218. P. 395.
2. The Alabama Act of July 10, 1935, providing that "Every distributor, refiner, retail dealer or storer of gasoline ... shall
pay an excise tax of six cents per gallon upon the selling, distributing, storing or withdrawing from storage in this State for
any use, gasoline . . .,. does not tax storing as such; the tax
accrues upon withdrawal from storage for "sale or other use," and
is measured by the amount withdrawn. P. 398.
This statute is construed in connection with earlier Acts and
in the light of practical construction by state authorities.
3. A tax on storage, or withdrawal from storage, essential to sales
of gasoline to the United States, is as objectionable, constitutionally,
as a tax on the sales themselves. P. 400.
4. In view of requirements of the Alabama laws taxing sales of
gasoline, no plain, adequate and complete remedy at law existed
in this case; and suit to enjoin collection was proper. P. 401.
13 F. Supp. 242, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of three
judges permanently enjoining Graves, the Governor, and
other officials of the State of Alabama, from collecting
taxes on sales of gasoline made by the appellee to the
United States.

Mr. Frontis H. Moore, Assistant Attorney General of
Alabama, and Mr. Richard T. Rives, with whom Mr.
Albert A. Carmichael, Attorney General, was on the
brief, for appellants.
The trial court was without jurisdiction to enjoin appellants from collecting the tax on past transactions, the
only procedure contemplated being suits in which ap-

394

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Appellants.

298 U. S.

pellee would have its day in court and full advantage
of any defenses it might have.
The trial court was without jurisdiction to enjoin the
collection of the tax on future transactions (1) because
any such writ of injunction would necessarily be supervisory, leaving the question to be decided in each case of
whether the gasoline was purchased for use by the United
States or its agency as an instrumentality in the performance of a constitutional governmental function; (2)
because the appellee has a complete and adequate remedy
at law under the statutes of Alabama.
The tax is upon the privilege of storing gasoline within
the State and accrues upon withdrawal from storage and
is measured by the amount withdrawn irrespective of
sale or use after such withdrawal.
The tax, therefore, is not, as applied to gasoline sold
to the United States, a tax upon the Government or its
agencies, nor a tax which operates in such manner as to
retard, impede, or burden the exercise by the United
States of its constitutional powers. Panhandle Oil Co.
v. Mississippi, 277 U. S. 218; Educational Films Corp.
v. Ward, 282 U. S. 379; Alabama v. Montgomery, 228
Ala. 93; Foster & Creighton Co. v. Graham, 154 Tenn.
412; Indian Motocycle Co. v. United States, 283 U. S.
570; Woco Pep Co. v. Montgomery, 219 Ala. 73; Wheeler
Lumber Co. v. United States, 281 U. S. 572; Trinityfarm Construction Co. v. Grosjean, 291 U. S.466; Lash's
Products Co. v. United States, 278 U. S. 175; American
Airways v. Wallace, 57 F. (2d) 877.
Mr. John S. Coleman for appellee.
By leave of Court, Solicitor General Reed, Assistant
Attorney General Jackson, and Messrs. David E. Hudson, Sewall Key, John M. Hudson, and Paul R. Russell
filed a brief on behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, challenging the taxes in question.

GRAVES v. TEXAS COMPANY.
393

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Appellee brought this suit against appellants, officers of
the State of Alabama, to restrain the collection under
statutes of that State of taxes in respect of gasoline and
other liquid motor fuels-which for brevity we shall call

"gasoline"-sold to the United States and used by it in
performing governmental functions. Plaintiff applied to
the court of three judges for a temporary and a perma-

nent injunction. After hearing on an agreed statement of
facts, the court held that the Alabama statutes assailed
are not distinguishable from the Mississippi exaction condemned as unconstitutional in PanhandleOil Co. v. Knox,
277 U. S. 218, and granted a permanent injunction. 13
F. Supp. 242. The governor and the other state officers

appealed. 28 U. S. C., § 345. The United States, by
brief filed here as amicus curiae, presented its argument
asking affirmance on the ground that the taxes impose a
burden on sales to it.1
In substance the Alabama statutes 2 provide: The Act
of February 10, 1923, (not here involved) required every

distributor and retail dealer to pay an excise tax of two
cents per gallon "upon the sale" of gasoline. A distributor is one who sells gasoline at wholesale. A retail
1The government's brief states: On the basis of purchases in Alabama during the current year, it is estimated that the total annual
added cost of gasoline would amount to $143,145.54. If Alabama
succeeds in collecting the tax, other States will probably modify their
statutes to produce a similar revenue; it is estimated that this would
add a burden of $4,479,661.40 per year upon the United States.
That figure is arrived at on the basis of four cents a gallon. -The use
of fuel oil by the Navy Department, which purchased 273,354,228
gallons in 1934, suggests a further burden on the United States.
Enacted July 10, 1923, Gen. Acts 1923, p. 36, and amended August 27, 1927, Gen. Acts 1927, p. 326; January 25, 1927, Gen. Acts
1927, p. 16; July 27, 1931, Gen. Acts 1931, p. 859; November 5, 1932,
Gen. Acts 1932, p. 314; January 31, 1935, Gen. Acts 1935, p. 30;
July 10, 1935, Gen. Acts 1935, p. 508.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

dealer is a distributor who also sells gasoline in broken
quantities. The Act of January 25, 1927, required every
distributor, retail dealer "or storer" to pay two cents per
gallon "upon the selling, distributing or withdrawing from
storage for any use." A storer is one "who ships gasoline into this State . . . and stores the same and withdraws or uses the same for any purpose." The Act of
August 27, 1927, amending that of 1923, employed the
same form of words to define the exaction and made a
total taxof four cents upon selling, distributing or withdrawing for any use. The Act of July 25, 1931, added a
cent and that of November 5, 1932 added another. The
Act of January 31, 1935, repealed the 1931 and 1932
statutes and, in lieu of the excises laid by them, imposed
one of two cents. The Act of July 10, 1935, repealed
all the Acts then in force and in their place enacted
that "Every distributor, refiner,' retail dealer or storer
of gasoline . . . shall pay an excise tax of six cents
($0.06) per gallon upon the selling, distributing, storing
or withdrawing from storage in this State for any use,
gasoline . .
All the Acts here involved declare that the excise shall
not be laid upon sales in interstate commerce and that
the specified tax shall be paid but once. They make the
excise apply whether "withdrawals be for sale or other
use," declare that sellers may pay on the basis of their
sales and require that others upon whom the excise is
laid shall compute and pay the tax on the basis of their
withdrawals. All must make monthly return of "sales
and withdrawals" and preserve records of "sales, distributions or withdrawals." Anyone who shall violate any
provision may be restrained "from distributing, refining,
selling or withdrawing from storage any gasoline, the
sale or withdrawal of which is taxable."
The term "refiner" first appears in the 1932 Act; it has no application to this case.

GRAVES v. TEXAS COMPANY.
393

Opinion of the Court.

Appellee is a Delaware corporation, authorized to do
business in Alabama. It sells gasoline in the 67 counties
of that State. Gasoline refined at Port Arthur, Texas,
is transported by barges to the company's terminals at
Mobile, Alabama, and Pensacola and Millville, Florida.
Gasoline sold in Alabama is delivered from the Mobile
terminal or the company's bulk plants in that State to
which gasoline is shipped from the terminals and at
which it is held in tanks until withdrawn for delivery
at the plants to customers or for transportation to service
stations where it is sold at retail to the public.
Practically all the gasoline received by the United
States from the company in Alabama is sold and delivered pursuant to written contracts. Some provide
for deliveries at the Mobile terminal, some at bulk plants
and some at service stations. The deliveries from the
Mobile terminal are made in railroad tank cars on tracks
adjacent to the terminal. Gasoline delivered from bulk
plants is that shipped from the terminals and stored in
tanks at the plants until withdrawn. That delive'ed
from service stations is shipped from the terminals to
bulk plants and thence conveyed to the stations.
The United States requires that prices specified in
bids and contracts shall be exclusive of state and municipal taxes. Between January 1, 1930, and September 22,
1935, the company sold and delivered to the United
States in Alabama 286,639.36 gallons of gasoline. At the
time -of the trial, there were in force two contracts for
sale and delivery of gasoline by the company to the
United States in Alabama. One covered the period from
October 1 to December 31, 1935, and called for deliveries
at the Mobile terminal for the United States Army and
the Tennessee Valley Authority. The other covered the
period from October 1, 1935, to June 30, 1936, and
called for service station deliveries for the Department
of the Interior.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

March 22, 1923, the attorney general of Alabama ruled
that sales to the United States were taxable under the
1923 Act. But, after our decision May 14, 1928, in the
Panhandle case, the attorney general, August 22, 1928,
held that the Alabama statutes then in force (those enacted in 1927) were not distinguishable from that of
Mississippi held repugnant to the federal constitution in
the Panhandlecase. He said: "Alabama also [in addition
to taxing selling] taxes the distributing or withdrawing
from storage for any use. It taxes but once, and where
there is a sale, the tax is on the sale. Where there is no
sale, but a distribution or withdrawing from storage for
some use, other than selling, there is a tax on such withdrawal or distribution. We are not here considering such
withdrawals, but only sales to the United States."
That construction was accepted by the state taxing
officers and followed until July 5, 1935, when the then
attorney general advised the tax commission that the
taxes levied under the Acts of 1927, 1931 and 1932 were
essentially different in character from those condemned
in the Panhandle case. His ruling did not depend upon
or result from the statutes enacted after 1927. He held
the taxes were laid not upon sale but upon storage and
subsequent withdrawal, accruing at the time of withdrawals, and to be computed upon the basis of withdrawals. Ie said that "so far as purchases of gasoline by
the United States Government are concerned, these tax
acts in question do not impose a burden upon the United
States .... True it may be that the effect of these taxes
may be to increase the price of the commodity which the
Federal Government may desire to purchase."
The company has not reported for taxation or paid any
tax under these Acts on gasoline sold to the United States
since the attorney general's ruling of August 22, 1928. On
August 30, 1935, the commission informed appellee that
it could not "permit deductions from gasoline sales by

GRAVES v. TEXAS COMPANY.
393

Opinion of the Court.

reason of gallonage sold to the United States." And,
prior to the bringing of this suit, the State made demand
for taxes upon all gasoline withdrawn and sold in Alabama during the preceding five years.
Appellants say that, upon the privilege of storing gasoline, the company is subject to a tax accruing upon and
measured by the amount withdrawn, irrespective of subsequent sale or use. Upon that basis they maintain that
the tax in respect of gasoline sold and delivered by the
company to the United States is not one that operates to
retard, impede or burden the exercise by the United
States of its constitutional functions.
But mere storing, i. e., that unassociated with selling,
distributing or withdrawing from storage, was not taxable under prior laws and is not taxable under the Act
of July 10, 1935 now in force. While a storer is subject
to excise in the Act of January 25, 1927 and subsequent
statutes, storing without more is not enough to make one
a storer. To be a storer, one must ship into the State and
there store and withdraw gasoline for some use. Storing
was not included among the acts or things taxed until
the Act of July 10, 1935. That Act supersedes and consolidates the earlier levies. We read its taxing clause
with its other provisions that in substance were taken
from the earlier statutes. In all the measures involved,
it unmistakably appears-and it is conceded by the taxing officers-that one who has paid a tax on selling is
not taxable on distributing, storing or withdrawing from
storage. The opinion of the attorney general, August 22,
1928, rightly held that the State taxes but once and,
where there is a sale, the tax is on, the sale. The purpose
of the statutes subsequent to that of 1923 was to reach
gasoline which was used but not sold within the State.
But, excepting only the addition of the word "storing"
in the taxing clause of the Act of July 10, 1935, there is
nothing to suggest intention to tax "storing" as such.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

Other provisions indicate that it was not the purpose so
to tax. In all the Acts, it is stated: The excise shall
apply whether the withdrawal be for "sale or other use";
sellers may pay on the basis of their sales but others
shall pay on the basis of their withdrawals; all shall
report their "sales and withdrawals" and keep records
of the "sales, distributions or withdrawals"; violators of
the Act may be restrained from distributing, refining,
selling or withdrawing from storage (but not from storing) gasoline, the "sale or withdrawal" of which is taxable. Omission of storing from these and all other provisions relating to ascertainment of amount or enforcement of the taxes imposed tend strongly to negative
intention to tax storing as such.
There are other indications that storing alone was not
intended to be taxed. The tax commission has never required, and distributors, retail dealers and storers have
not made, reports in respect of gasoline until it passes
from seller to purchaser or until withdrawn for use. The
State has never claimed a tax upon storing of gasoline
withdrawn for sale and delivery in interstate commerce.
In the absence of withdrawal, there is no tax no matter
how long gasoline is stored. The amount at any time
received or held in storage is immaterial. The tax depends solely upon the amount withdrawn. No notice is
taken of losses by evaporation or otherwise, or of storing
for hire or of storing after taxable sale, distribution or
withdrawal for use. Clearly, storing alone is not the
thing taxed; withdrawing is essential. Ervin v. Alabama,
80 F. (2d) 432. Pan American Petroleum Corp. v. Alabama, 67 F. (2d) 590. State v. Montgomery, 228 Ala. 93,
95; 151 So. 856. Dawson v. Kentucky Distilleries Co.,
255 U. S. 288, 293.
But, assuming that, by the Acts under consideration
the State meant to tax mere storing, that purpose cannot be given effect in respect of the company's sales and

GRAVES v. TEXAS COMPANY.
393

Opinion of the Court.

deliveries to the United States without infringing the
constitutional principle which safeguards the federal government against state taxation. Plainly, the sales and
deliveries by the company to the United States necessarily include storing and withdrawal from storage. A
tax upon anything so essential to the sale of the gasoline
to the United States is as objectionable as would be a
tax upon the sale itself. The validity of the tax is to be
determined by the practical effect of enforcement. To
apply any other test of constitutionality would be to treat
"a prohibition which is general, as if it were confined to
a particular mode of doing the forbidden thing." Brown
v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 444. As held in the Panhandle case (p. 222): "A charge at the prescribed rate is
made on account of every gallon acquired by the United
States. It is immaterial that the seller and not the
purchaser is required to report and make payment to the
State. . . . The amount of money claimed by the State
rises and falls precisely as does the quantity of gasoline
so secured by the Government. It depends immediately
upon the number of gallons." So far as concerns the
federal immunity from state taxation, a tax upon storing or withdrawal so involved cannot be distinguished
from the tax on sales imposed by the Mississippi statute
condemned as unconstitutional.
Appellants suggest that appellee has an adequate
remedy at law and therefore may not resort to equity.
It was required to give a bond and obtain a license to
carry on its business. Section 6, Act of October 6, 1932,
Gen. Acts 1932, p. 57. It is required monthly to report
and pay taxes to the tax commission for the previous
month. Act of July 10, 1935, schedule 156.3.' All,
including amounts paid under protest, are by the commission handed over to the state treasurer who retains
' The same provisions are found in the statutes repealed by the
Act of July 10, 1935.
65773-36----26

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

half and distributes the other half equally among the
counties. Sch. 156.9-156.11. Failure for any monthoso
to report is punishable by fine from $50 to $300, sch.
156.7, and the commission is required to fix the amount
of the tax and to impose a penalty of 25%, sch. 156.14.
And, in the absence of satisfactory showing by the company to the contrary, the commission may revoke its
license, § 6, supra, and issue summary execution against
its bond and property. The tax and penalties constitute
a debt to the State and a lien upon all its property prior
to all others save earlier liens for state taxes. Sch. 156.15.
Appellants assume that suit to collect the taxes claimed
is the only procedure contemplated. But that assumption is without support in the record. They have not
bound themselves to refrain from doing anything that
the statute empowers them to do to enforce payment
of the taxes claimed. It does not appear that they are
authorized so to bind themselves. In the absence of
injunction against them, appellee, failing to pay the
taxes they demand, is liable to be proceeded against in
accordance with the state law.
November 22, 1928, the attorney general of Alabama
advised the attorney general of the United States that
Alabama had no statute authorizing refund of taxes that
had been collected upon sales of gasoline to the United
States. January 28, 1935, the gasoline department of the
tax commission wrote appellee that, where the tax had
been paid upon gasoline furnished the United States by
a dealer for appellee's account, there was no provision for
refund.
Appellants intimate, but do not definitely claim, that
a distributor or dealer, if illegally compelled to pay taxes
on sales to the United States, would under Alabama law
be entitled to recover the amount so collected. They
cite the Act of September 9, 1927, Gen. Acts 1927, p. 635.
It appears to extend only to taxes paid while their

GRAVES v. TEXAS COMPANY.
393

Opinion of the Court.

amount or validity is in litigation. It contains no provision for interest. It was in effect when the attorney
general made his ruling of November 22, 1928. They
also cite the Act of July 17, 1931, Gen. Acts 1931, p. 527.
It does not permit suit but merely authorizes the tax
commission to refund. And finally they cite the Act
of July 10, 1935. Section 379 gives to one who has paid
taxes under protest the privilege of bringing suit within
60 days against the officer making the collection; it directs the court to determine what amount, if any, is
excessive or illegal and to order it to be returned with
interest by the State or its agencies receiving the same.
Failure to sue within the specified period bars the claim.
It is likely that a year or more would elapse before final
determination of such a suit. In the meantime, monthly
collections would have to be made, and so appellee would
be compelled repeatedly, and at least as often as once
every 60 days, to bring suits against the commission
involving the same question. Upon obtaining the court's
determination in its favor, appellee would be authorized,
on presentation of certified copies of the judgment, to
receive from the State the half it retained and from each
of the counties its share of the other half. It would be
necessary to follow the same course as to the amounts
claimed in each of the suits. Resort may be had to
equity in order to avoid the multiplicity of suits necessarily involved in the procedure prescribed for recovery
of illegal exactions.
Appellee suggests that the provisions of the Act of
July 10, 1935, are repugnant to § 14 of the Constitution
of Alabama: "That the State of Alabama shall never be
made a defendant in any court of law or equity." In
support of that view, it shows that, since this suit was
commenced, a telephone company brought suit under
§ 379 in the court below against the members of the state
commission, appellants here, to recover license taxes paid

404

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
CAiuozo, J., dissenting.

298 U. S.

under protest, and that they have filed a plea to the
jurisdiction of the court, asserting that "the real party
in Interest is the State of Alabama"; that § 379 purports
to give the State's consent to be sued only in its own
courts, and that it "is immune from being impleaded in
a court of the United States under the provisions of
the Eleventh Amendment."
It sufficiently appears that appellee had no plain, adequate or complete remedy at law. Union Pacifi R. Co. v.
Weld County, 247 U. S. 282, 285-286. Atlantic Coast
Line v. Daughton, 262 U. S. 413, 426. Di diovanni v.
Camden Fire Ins. Assn., 296 U. S. 64, 69. Risty v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 270 U. S. 378, 388. American
Airways v. Wallace, 57 F. (2d) 877, 879. Hopkins v.
Southern California Tel. Co., 275 U. S. 393, 399-400.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO, dissenting.

Under the Alabama statute, the appellee, the Texas
Company, is a "storer." It is one "who ships or causes
to be shipped or receives, gasoline into this State in any
quantities, and stores the same in any manner and withdraws or uses the same for any purpose." If it did business in some other way, it might be taxable
as a "distributor," or "refiner," or "retail dealer." Doing business
as it does, it is taxable as a "storer." It brings into Alabama a dangerous commodity which it keeps there indefinitely for indefinite uses. For the privilege of doing
this it must make a payment to the state upon the termination of the storage, whether the puipose of the withdrawal is sale or something else. The statute was
amended by adding the word "storing" in order to cover

GRAVES v. TEXAS COMPANY.
393

CARDOZO, J., dissenting.

such activities. What the lawmakers have put into a
statute, a court may not take out of it.
In its application to appellee, a tax thus conditioned is
an excise upon the privilege of storage, and so the cases
hold. State v. Montgomery, 228 Ala. 93; 151 So. 856;
Ervin v. Alabama, 80 F. (2d) 432, 433; Pan American
Petroleum Corp. v. Alabama, 67 F. (2d) 590. It is not
transformed into a tax upon something else, or, more
particularly, into a tax upon the privilege of sale, because
payable when the gasoline is taken out of storage or because measured by the amount withdrawn. Edelman v.
Boeing Air Transport, Inc., 289 U. S. 249, 252; Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Wallace, 288 U. S. 249, 268;
Erinv. Alabama, supra; Pan American Petroleum Corp.
v. Alabama, supra; State v. Montgomery, supra. The
nature of the excise being what it is, liability is the same
whether withdrawal of the gasoline is for one purpose or
another.
Panhandle Oil Co. v. Knox, 277 U. S. 218, is not a
decision to the contrary. The tax considered' in that
case and condemned when applied to transactions with
the government was upon the privilege of sale exclusively, and not upon some activity or condition antecedent thereto. The decision evoked dissent from four
members of the court. It is now carried to new bounds
by the ruling that "a tax upon anything so essential to
the sale of the gasoline to the United States [as storage
followed by withdrawal] is as objectionable as would
be a tax upon the sale itself." If that ruling is to stand,
it will equally forbid a tax upon the process of refining
or upon transportation to a market (Wheeler Lumber
B. & S. Co. v. United States, 281 U. S. 572), since these,
as much as storage, are preliminary to sale. Cf. Edelman v. Boeing Air Transport, Inc., supra; Nashville,
C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Wallace, supra. Not yet has the

406

OCTOBER TERM, 1935,
CARDOZO, J., dissenting.

298 U. S.

immunity of government from indirect obstructions been
pushed to that extreme.
Gasoline refined in Texas and transported to Alabama
to be stored in tanks or terminals is there for general
uses. Part of it in the usual course of business will be
sold to the United States; part of it will be sold to
others; part will be withdrawn without sale to anyone.
This is not to say that the result would be any different
though a definite sale were in view at the beginning of
the storage. Even in such conditions, storage, like transportation, would be "not part of the sale but preliminary
to it and wholly the vendor's affair." Wheeler Lumber
B. & S. Co. v. United States, supra, at p. 579. However,
the indefinite extension of the uses simplifies the problem. The burden, if any, upon the activities of government is remote and indeterminate. Metcalf & Eddy v.
Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514; Burnet v. A. T. Jergins Trust,
288 U. S. 508; Trinityfarm Construction Co. v. Grosjean;
291 U. S. 466. Sales to the United States are made
under contracts for a stated term. There is no assurance
that the tax or any part of it will be shifted to the buyer.
The decree should be-reversed and the bill dismissed.
I am authorized to state that MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS
joins in this opinion.

