OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

298 U.S.

reached generally by the lower federal courts, although
not with entire unanimity.'
Affirmed.
BEADLE v. SPENCER.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 676.

Argued March 31, 1936.-Decided April 27, 1936.

1. The provisions of the Employers' Liability Act specifically imposing liability for injuries caused by negligence of officers and fellow
employees, or by defects in equipment due to negligence, were
adopted for the maritime law. by the Jones Act, 46 U. S. C. 388.
P. 128.
2. Assumption of risk is not a defense to a suit brought under the
Jones Act by one who is a seaman according to the maritime law,
for personal injuries resulting from negligent failure of the master
to provide safe appliances or a safe place in which to work. The
Arizona, ante, p. 110, followed. P. 129.
3. This rule applies although the injured seaman was employed on
a coasting vessel which was in port at the time of his accident.
P. 129.
4. It is unnecessary to decide in this case whether employees on a
vessel who are not seamen according to the maritime law, but who
have been given the status of seamen for the purpose of enabling
theni to bring suit under the Jones Act, see InternationalStevedoring Co. v. Haverty, 272 U. S. 50, are entitled to the immunity from
the defense of assumption of risk accorded by the maritime law to
seamen. P. 130.
'Denying the defense: Grimberg v. Admiral Oriental S. S. Line,
300 Fed. 619; U. S. Shipping Board E. F. Corp. v. O'Shea, 55 App.
D. C. 300; 5 F. (2d) 123; Coast S. S. Co. v. Brady, 8 F. (2d) 16;
Zin'nel v. U. S. Shipping Board E. F. Corp., 10 F. (2d) 47; Howarth
v. U. S. Shipping Board E. F. Corp., 24 F. (2d) 374; Masjulis v.
U. S. Shipping Board E. F. Corp., 31 F. (2d) 284; States S. S. Co.
v. Berglann, 41 F. (2d) 456; United States v. Boykin, 49 F. (2d) 762;
Ives v. United States, 58 F. (2d) 201; Pittsburgh S. S. Co. v. Palo,
64 F. (2d) 198; Hanson v. Luckenbach S. S. Co., 65 F. (2d) 457;
The New Berne, 80 F. (2d) 244. Contra: The Ipswich, 46 F. (2d)
136; Stevens v. R. O'Brien & Co., 62 F. (2d) 632.

BEADLE v. SPENCER.
124

Argument for Petitioner.

5. Contributory negligence is not a defense to a suit brought either
under the Jones Act or under the maritime law for injuries
attributable to negligently defective equipment. It is ground only
for apportionment of the damages. P. 130.
4 Cal. (2d) 313; 48 P. (2d) 678, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 297 U. S. 701, to review the affirmance of
a judgment for damages in an action by a seaman who
was injured by falling into a hatch.

Mr. Harold M. Sawyer for petitioner.
Upon the authority of Pryor v. Williams, 245 U. S. 43;
Southern Ry. Co. v. Hermans, 44 F. (2d) 366; and Holy
Cross Gold Mining Co. v. O'Sullivan, 27 Colo. 237, the
District Court of Appeal held that in the instant case,
under the pleadings and the evidence, the jury should
have been instructed with regard to the defense of
assumption of ordinary risks and hazards of the employment. and the legal effect thereof, and because of the failure so to instruct, reversed the judgment of the trial court.
It has been repeatedly urged throughout this litigation
that the above authorities involve injuries sustained in
the operation of railroads, and that consequently these
authorities furnish no rule whatever for the application
of the doctrine of assumption of the risk of the ordinary
and obvious hazards in the case of seamen suing under
the Jones Act.
Long before the Jones Act was passed, this Court said,
in the case of The Iroquois, 194 U. S..240: "A seafaring
life is a dangerous one. Accidents of this kind are peculiarly liable to occur and the general principle of law that
a person entering a dangerous employment is regarded as
assuming the ordinary risks of such employment is peculiarly applicable to the case of seamen."
There can be no doubt that the defense of assumption
of the risk in suits brought by seamen prior to the passage of the Jones Act was available to their employers.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

It is true that some of the inferior federal and state
courts have held that the entire doctrine of assumption of
the risk is not applicable to seamen because of the peculiarities of their occupation which distinguish it from land
occupation. The chief distinction between the two occupations is that the seaman at sea is acting under orders,
disobedience to which may imperil the safety "of vessel,
persons on board, and the cargo. But in this case the
respondent occupied no such position. He was on a vessel
moored at a dock discharging cargo. He was injured early
on Monday morning, having been ashore since the preceding Saturday afternoon. He had not signed articles
and could have quit his job at any time he liked without
penalty or forfeiture. Under these circumstances there is
no occasion for relaxing the rule of assumption of the risk
because the reason upon which such relaxation is based
does not exist. Other dourts have found no difficulty in
applying the rule of assumption of the risk in cases under
the Jones Act where, as here, the seaman was not acting
under compulsion. Skolar v. Lehigh Valley Ry. Co., 60 F.
(2d) 893; Scheffler v. Moran Towing Co., 1934 A. M. C.
441.
It is therefore submitted that when Congress saw fit
to enlarge the privileges of seamen by conferring upon
them the same rights and remedies as were conferred
upon employees in interstate commerce by the F~ederal
Employers' Liability Act, it fully intended to reserve to,
the maritime employer the same defense of assumption of
risk that had been reserved to the land employer.
Mr. John L. McNab submitted for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

In this case certiorari was granted to review a ruling of
the Supreme Court of California, 4 Cal. (2d) 313; 48 P.
(2d) 678, that assumption of risk is not a defense to a suit

BEADLE v. SPENCER.
124

Opinion of the Court.

brought by a seaman under the Jones Act, 41 Stat. '007,
46 U. S. C. § 688, to recover for personal injuries due to the
negligent failure of the officers of the vessel to provide
him with a safe place in which to work.
Respondent was employed by petitioner as a seaman on
a coasting vessel. While engaged in unloading lumber
from the deck he was injured by a fall into an open hatch.
On the trial there was evidence from which the jury cbuld
have found that the deck of the vessel, from the bulwarks
to within about forty inches of either side of the hatch
coamings, was loaded with heavy timbers, and that the
remaining deck space, at the sides of the hatch, was loaded
with loose lumber, consisting of pieces 2" x 3" and
1" x 12", to a height five or six feet above the deck; that
this lighter lumber, or a substantial part of it, had been
loaded in sling loads, without re-piling, in such negligent
fashion as to render it unstable; that the pile of lumber,
with the open hatch alongside, constituted an unsafe place
to work for those required to go upon it, as the master
knew; and that the upper part of the pile of lumber, on
which respondent was standing in order to adjust a sling
about some of the lumber to be uploaded, toppled over
because of its instability, throwing him through the open
hatch into the hold and causing the injuries complained
of. The trial court refused requests to charge that
assumption of the risk by respondent was a defense, but
left it to the jury to say whether there was negligent failure of the master to provide a safe place for the respondent to work, and whe"her the failure was the proximate
cause of the injury. It reduced the jury's verdict for respondent and gave judgment accordingly, which the state
supreme court sustained.
Numerous grounds for reversal are urged here, of which
only two require our ribtice. One is petitioner's contention that even though assumption of risk is not generally
a defense to a suit brought under the Jones Act, it must

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

be deemed available where, as in the present case, the
injured seaman is employed on a coasting vessel which
was in port at the time of the accident. It is argued that
as he was not required to sign articles, 18 Stat. 64, 46
U. S. C. § 544, compare 46 U. S. C. § 563, and consequently
was not subject to the punishment for desertion prescribed
by 46 U. S. C. §§ 701-713, he was free to avoid the risk
by leaving the vessel and his employment. The other
objection is that the trial court erred in refusing petitioner's request to charge that if the jury should find that
respondent, in placing the sling underneath the lumber,
"chose to perform the act in a dangerous manner such as
stepping too near the edge of the deck load when there
was a safe method of doing the work involving no risk of
the edge of the deck load giving away, then the plaintiff
cannot recover."
1. The effect of the Jones Act in bringing into the maritime law new rules of liability prescribed by the Federal
Employers' Liability Act, has been considered in The
Arizona, decided this day, ante, p. 110, and does not require
extended discussion here. The injury resulting to the employee from the negligently piled lumber, in proximity to
the open hatch, is made actionable by the Jones Act, by its
adoption for the maritime law of the provisions of the
Employers' Liability Act, which specifically imposes liability for negligence of officers and fellow employees, and
for defects in equipment due to negligence. See Zinnel v.
U. S. Shipping Board E. F. Corp., 10 F. (2d) 47; The Valdarno, 11 F. (2d) 35; Howarth v. U. S. Shipping Board
E. F. Corp., 24 F. (2d) 374; Hanson v. Luckenbach S. S.
Co., 65 F. (2d) 457. Before the enactment of the Jones
Act it was recognized that a "failure to supply and keep
in order the proper appliances appurtenant to the ship"
is equivalent to unseaworthiness, and that it was likewise
actionable under the maritime law, if it caused injury to a
seaman. See The Osceola, 189 U. S. 158, 175. Judge

BEADLE v. SPENCER.
124

Opinion of the Court.

Addison Brown, sitting in admiralty, had allowed recovery
to a seaman for injuries received in unloading lumber ,in
circumstances substantially like the present, in The Frank
and Willie, 45 Fed. 494, cited with approval in The Osceola, supra, 174. See also Carlisle Packing Co. v. Sandanger, 259 U. S. 255; Olson v. Flavel, 34 Fed. 477.
2. It is unnecessary to repeat here the reasons given
in the opinion in The Arizona, supra, for our conclusion
that assumption of risk is not a defense to a suit brought
by a seaman under the Jones Act for negligent failure
of the master to provide safe appliances or a safe place
in which to work. Those reasons neither, require nor
admit of a different rule because of the circumstances of
respondent's employment on which the petitioner relies.
The rules, peculiar to admiralty, of liability for injuries
to seamen or others, are as applicable when the injury
occurs upon a vessel in port as when at sea, although the
common law may apply a different rule to an injury
similarly inflicted on the wharf to which the vessel is
moored. The Frank and Willie, supra; and see Northern
Coal & Dock Co. v. Strand, 278 U. S. 142; Noyueira v.
New York, N. H. & H. R. Co., 281 U. S. 128; Baizley
Iron Works v. Span, 281 U. S. 222; Employers' Liability
Assurance Corp. v. Cook, 281 U. S. 233; Uravic v. Jarka
Co., 282 U. S. 234.
Nor do we perceive any adequate ground for judicial
relaxation of the admiralty rule, applicable under the
Jones Act, that assumption of risk is not a defense to a suit
to recover for injury to a seaman resulting from unseaworthiness or defective equipment, because he chances to
be in some measure less amenable to the iron d1scipline
of the sea than others who go upon foreign voyages.
Even so his freedom to avoid the risk is far from comparable to that of the employee on land where the defense
of assumption of risk originated and has been maintained.
6,577;;°-36--9

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

No such distinction appears to have been recognized in
the maritime law. And we discern nothing in the purpose or in the language of the Jones Act or in the rules of
liability which it prescribes to suggest that Congress undertook to introduce such a distinction into the maritime
law.
It is unnecessary to decide whether employees on a
vessel who are not seamen according to the maritime law,
but who have been given the status of seamen for the purpose of enabling them to bring suit under the Jones Act,
see International Stevedoring Co. v. Haverty, 272 U. S.
50, are entitled to the immunity from the defense of assumption of risk accorded by the maritime law to seamen.
Cf. Scheffler v. Moran Towing & Transportation Co.,
68 F. (2d) 11; Skolar v. Lehigh Valley R. Co., 60 F.
(2d) 893.
3. We find no prejudicial error in the refusal to give
the requested charge as to the respondent's use of the
sling. The trial judge did charge the jury that there
could be no recovery unless it found that negligence of
petitioner was the cause of the injury. Respondent was
using the defectively piled lumber as a platform on
which to stand when adjusting the sling under some of
the lumber about to be unloaded. There is no suggestion in the evidence or by petitioner's requests that he
could have stood elsewhere when performing that opera,tion, or that he had any choice but to do his work there
or leave the vessel. It may be that he was negligent in
standing at one point rather than at anbther upon the
unsafe pile of lumber, see Seaboard Air Line Ry. Co. v.
Horton, 233 U. S. 492; cf. The Frank and Willie, supra,
and that an instruction as to the effect of his negligence
would have been appropriate. But we think the charge
in the form requested, so far as applicable t o the evidence, and in view of that actually given, amounted to

INTERNATIONAL MACHINES CORP. v. U. S.

131

Syllabus.

124

no more than a request to charge that his negligence
was a defense. Contributory negligence is not a defense
to a suit brought either under the Jones Act or under the
maritime law for. injuries attributable to negligently defective equipment. Under both it is ground only for
apportionment of the damage, see The Frank and Willie,
supra; 35 Stat. 66, 45 U. S. C. § 53. So far as the record
discloses petitioner made no request for an instruction as
to apportionment of the damage.
Affirmed.

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP.
v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 758.

Argued April 8, 1936.-Decided April 27, 1936.

Section 3 of the Clayton Act declares it unlawful for any person
engaged in commerce to lease machinery "whether patented or
unpatented" on the condition that the lessee shall not use supplies or other commodities of the lessor's competitor, where the
effect of the condition "may be" to lessen competition substantially or tend to create a monopoly. Held:
1. The prohibition is violated by a condition requiring a lessee
to operate the leased machine only with supplies from the lessor,
since this, in effect, precludes the use of supplies of a competitor.
P. 134.
2. While the section does not purport to curtail the patent
monopoly of the lessor, the prohibition of tying clauses is not limited to unpatented supplies but includes also supplies which have
been patented to the lessor either separately or in combination
with the patented machine. P. 136.
3. Assuming that, by implied exception, a tying clause would
not violate the provision, though it tended to create a monopoly,
if its purpose and effect were to protect the good will of the lessor
in the leased machines, there is no basis for the exception where
the substantial benefit of the? clause to the lessor is in the elimina-

