MOREHEAD v. N. Y. EX REL. TIPALDO.

587

Syllabus.

MOREHEAD, WARDEN, v. NEW YORK
TIPALDO.

EX REL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 838. Argued April 28, 29, 1936.-Decided June 1, 1936.
1. This Court, in certiorari cases, confines itself to the ground upon
which the writ was asked for and granted. P. 604.
2. A New York Act, Laws of 1933, c. 584, declares it to be against
public policy for any employer to employ any woman at an oppressive or unreasonable wage, defined as one which is "both less
than the fair and reasonable value of the services rendered and
less than sufficient to meet the minimum cost of living necessary
for health"; it defines "a fair wage" as one "fairly and reasonably
commensurate with the value of the service or class of service
rendered"; and empowers a commissioner, if he be of the opinion
that any substantial number of women in any occupation are receiving "oppressive and unreasonable" wages, to appoint a wage
board to make inquiry and report its recommendations as to
minimum fair wage standards. Standards so reported, when accepted by the commissioner, after publication and further hearings, may be enforced by his manda-tory order, violation of which
is punishable by fine and imprisonment. The New York Court
of Appeals, in this case, construed the statute as requiring that the
minimum wages to be fixed under it shall be not only equal to the
fair and reasonable value of the services rendered, but also sufficient to meet the minimum cost of living necessary for health, and
decided that, so construed, it was unconstitutional. Held:
(1) This Court is bound to accept the state court's construction of the statute. Pp. 605, 609.
(2) So far as concerns the validity of this Act, the restraint
imposed by the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
upon the legislative power of the State is the same as that imposed by the 'due process clause of the Fifth Amendment upon
the legislative power of the United States. P. 610.
(3) The Act, as construed by the state court, is in conflict
with the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Adkins v. Children's Hospital, 261 U. S. 525. P. 609 et seq.
3. The decision in Adkins v. Children's Hospital, supra, and. the
reasoning upon which it rests, clearly show that the State is
without power by any form of legislation to prohibit, change, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for the Warden.

298 U. S.

nullify contracts between employers and adult women workers
as to the amount of wages to be paid. The dominant issue in
that case was whether Congress had power to establish minimum
wages for adult women workers in the District of Columbia.
The opinion directly answers in the negative. The ruling that
defects in the prescribed standard stamped the Act of Congress
as arbitrary and invalid was an additional ground of subordinate
consequence. P. 610.
4. The "factual background" of this case does not distinguish it in
principle from the Adkins case, szpra. P. 614.
270 N. Y. 233, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 297 U. S. 702, to review a judgment of the
Supreme Court of New York, entered on remittitur from
the Court of Appeals. Tipaldo had been placed in
custody on a charge of disobeying an administrative order
prescribing minimum wages for women employees. The
trial court's dismissal of a writ of habeas corpus was
reversed by the decision under review.

Mr. Henry Epstein, Solicitor General of New York,
with whom Mr. John J. Bennett, Jr., Attorney General,
and Mr. John F. X. McGohey, Assistant Attorney General, were on the brief, for petitioner.
The ultimate end sought by the New York Minimum
Wage Law is the promotion of the public good. The immediate end is the establishment of a wage for women
and minors which is reasonably and fairly commensurate
with the value of the services rendered. The Legislature,
in addition, by means of a minimum wage, endeavored
to protect industry from the evils of unfair competition
which accompany the exploitation of employees by the
least conscionable group of employers.
The wage found for the laundry industry was less than
the necessary normal health standard for an employed
woman, and was based solely upon the fair value of the
services rendered. Thus the cost of living standard is

MOREHEAD v. N. Y. EX REL. TIPALDO.
587

589

Argument for the Warden.

not used to raise the minimum wage above what is found
to be a fair return for the services rendered.
The use of the standard of reasonable value for services
rendered and the method of determining this reasonable
value are familiar to the Courts. Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v.
Railway Clerks, 281 U. S. 548. The Federal Trade Commission Act, the Clayton Act, and the Interstate Commerce Act all look to the elimination of unfair competitive tactics. An employer who regularly pays less than
a "fair wage" would have a definite and unfair advantage
over his less grasping competitor were it not for the equalizing effect of such a statute. See Central Lumber Co. v.
South Dakota, 226 U. S. 157; Whitfield v. Ohio, 297 U. S.
431; Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S. 502.
Minimum wage legislation for women and minors has
received legislative recognition in many of our States
and in many foreign countries. The health of women in
industry is of deep concern to the State.
The social and economic circumstances surrounding
the employment of women, affected as they are by
physiological considerations, have repeatedly been the
basis of judicial statements to the effect that women are
in a class by themselves, as a special concern of the
State. Their health and welfare in the performance of
physical labor so fundamentally affect the public welfare and are of such public concern that legislation designed for their special protection has been sustained
even when like legislation for men might not be. Muller
v. Oregon, 208 U. S. 412; Riley v. Massachusetts, 232
U. S. 671; Hawley v. Walker, 232 U. S. 718; Miller v.
Wilson, 236 U. S. 373; Bosley v. McLaughlin, 236 U. S.
385; Radice v. New York, 264 U. S. 292; People v.
CharlesSchweinler Press, 214 N. Y. 395.
Changes in modern industry affecting the economic
status of the family have brought to women growing re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for the Warden.

298 U. S.

sponsibilities for shouldering the support of others. Their
capacity, as well as the physical circumstances surrounding their employment, bears a definite relation to the
health and welfare of themselves, their families and the
community. There has been an influx of women and
minors into industry in New York State in recent years.
Great numbers of women are employed outside the home.
There is a growing tendency for women to continue working after marriage.
Women can not bargain and secure a fair return for
their services as men can. They are particularly unable
to bargain with unconscionable employers. Reasons of
this disadvantage are, tradition and the fact that their
sources of employment are subject to sharp seasonal
movements. They are not as well informed as men are
about the labor market. They are less mobile as a labor
group. In these respects the low wage level of women has
been self-perpetuating. Those who do not earn enough
to support themselves must live with their families and
be partially supported by others. Their family ties make
them unable to move from place to phice in search of better opportunities. These women whose earnings are supplemented from other sources are a constant drag on the
wage level and offer formidable competition to the growing thousands of women dependent on their own labor for
support, and often for the support of others dependent
upon them. Low wages cause one of the vicious circles
in our modern economic life. The community pays the
bill continually, whether directly by supplementing low
wages with relief funds, or indirectly through the social
costs of physical deterioration and poverty.
The lack of trade union organization among women is
another important factor affecting their wages.
A worker is entitled legally and ethically to full payment for what he has earned. The legal duty placed
upon the employer by this statute is that he must pay

MOREHEAD v. N. Y. EX REL. TIPALDO.
587

591

Argument for the Warden.

women and minor employees the fair value of services
rendered. When the wage equals or is more than the
cost of maintaining a normal health standard, the condition of the women in a particular industry ceases to be
a menace to public welfare. If within this defined limit
an employer pays less than the fair value of the services
rendered, by virtue of his more secure and potent economic position, the transaction smacks of fraud, exploitation and over-reaching. Holden v. Hardy, 169
U. S. 366.
Restraints upon the liberty of contract between employer and employee have been declared constitutional
in many cases. Patterson v. The Eudora, 190 U. S.
169; Keokee v. Taylor, 234 U. S. 224; Knoxville Iron
Co. v. Harbison, 183 U. S. 13; McLean v. Arkansas, 211
U. S. 531; Erie R. Co. v. Williams, 233 U. S. 685; New
York Central R. Co. v. Williams, 199 N. Y. 108; St.
Louis, I. M. & S. Ry. v. Paul, 173 U. S. 404; Strathearn
Steamship Co. v. Dillon, 252 U. S. 348. The underlying
principle in these cases is the State's right and duty to
interfere when inequality of bargaining power makes it
illusory to speak of liberty of contract. German Alliance
Ins. Co. v. Lewis, 233 U. S. 389, 417. These cases have
all involved legislation whose purpose was to protect the
right of the worker to what he had earned and to
invalidate devices used to avoid honest remuneration.
Instances in which legislation has directly or indirectly
restrained the bargaining power of the more powerful in
order to prevent them from enjoying its full economic
potency are numerous. In the foreground are cases involving the validity of usury laws. Griffiths v. Connecticut, 218 U. S. 563. Combinations in restraint of trade are
another example. It was the lack of any real freedom of
bargaining which made the New York Rent Laws valid
(Block v. Hirsh, 256 U. S. 135; Marcus Brown Co. v.

592

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for the Warden.

298 U. S.

Feldman, 256 U. S. 170), and which justified the State in
fixing the price of milk (Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S.
502). See also Ribnik v. McBride, 277 U. S. 350, 360;
Brazee v. Michigan, 241 U. S. 340; National Union Fire
Ins. Co. v. Wanberg, 269 U. S. 71; German Alliance Ins.
Co. v. Lewis, 233 U. S. 389; Atkins. v. Kansas, 191 U. S.
207.
This New York law recognizes that desperate competition for jobs gives an unscrupulous employer power to deprive his employee of what she has fairly earned. The
result is another and a most effective means of defrauding the worker and avoiding full payment, and as such can
be invalidated as any other scheme having the same effect.
The Minimum Wage Law promotes and does not restrict
real freedom of contract.
"Necessitous men are not, truly speaking, free men, but,
to answer a present exigency, will submit to any terms
that the crafty may impose upon them." Vernon v.
Bethell, 2 Eden 110, 113.
The Minimum Wage Law, to paraphrase the language
of Mr. Justice Butler in Highland v. Russell Car Co., 279
U. S. 253, 262, merely deprives the employer of the right,
or opportunity by negotiation to pay less than the fair
value of the services rendered. See also Chicago & Grand
Trunk Ry. v. Wellman, 143 U. S. 339-346; Patapsco
Guano Co. v. Board of Agriculture, 171 U. S. 345.
The courts have permitted the fixing of wages in industry. Citing: O'Gorman & Young v. Hartford Fire Ins.
Co., 282 U. S. 251; Bunting v. Oregon, 243 U. S. 426;
Holcombe v. Creamer,231 Mass. 99, and a number of cases
in state courts sustaining laws like the one in question,
and other cases adjudging such laws unconstitutional.
Adkin.s v. Children's Hospital, 261 U. S. 525, is distinguishable. The statutes are vitally dissimilar.
The purpose of the statute in the Adkins case was to
guarantee a wage based solely upon the necessities of the

MOREHEAD v. N. Y. EX REL. TIPALDO.
587

593

Argument for the Warden.

workers, without regard to earning power. It applied
to all vocations. It was exclusively a price-fixing statute,
with the "vague, variable standard" of the "cost of living," with no relationship between the wage set and the
work done. It did not consider the industry's ability to
pay.
In contrast, the New York law provides a definite
standard,-not more than the value of the services rendered. The minimum wage is to be fixed after considering all relevant circumstances and applying the principles
that would guide a court in a suit for the reasonable
value of services rendered. In each industry there must
be a separate investigation conducted by a separate
Board.
Moreover, the very different conditions to which it is
addressed serve to sustain the New York legislation.
O'Gorman & Young v. Hartford Fire Ins. Co., supra.
Cf. Euclid v. Ambler Realty Co., 272 U. S. 365. Green v.
Frazier,253 U. S. 233.
The differences in the underlying facts and in the
statutes are sufficient to make the rule of the Adhins
case inapplicable to this case. Furthermore, wc find for
every objection offered by this Court in the Adkins case
a complete answer in the New York statute; for every
affirmative qualification indicated, a standard in the
New York law which meets the qualification. It may be
stated with confidence that the majority opinion in
Adkins v. Children's Hospital,supra, furnishes the fullest
justification for declaring the New York Minimum Wage
Law a valid enactment under the Fourteenth Amendment.
Analysis of the actual results of the Minimum Wage
Law, as applied to the laundry industry, is extremely persuasive in any evaluation of the legitimacy of the end and
the reasonableness of the means.
65773°-o36-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Tipaldo.

298 U. S.

It is of the essence of Anglo-American law, and particularly of constitutional decisions thereunder, that the
courts decide only specific cases, presented by specific
records, and involving definite issues before the court. It
cannot be said that this Court in the Adkins case holds
that all minimum wage statutes, wherever found, are unconstitutional. On the contrary, the method of the District of Columbia statute was decried, but not its purpose.
The purpose, in fact, was commended (p. 558).
This canon of constitutional interpretation is particularly compelling when dealing with the broad language in
the Fourteenth Amendment. The "police power" depends ultimately upon pure questions of fact. The Fourteenth Amendment expresses a compromise between the
liberty of the individual and the welfare of the people of
the State. All cases under the Amendment present individual instances, varying with the facts.
The delegation of powers to the Wage Board and to the
Industrial Commissioner, as contained in the Minimum
Wage Law, is a proper exercise of legislative authority.
The contention 6f respondent that the Minimum Wage
Law is unconstitutional, in that it operates to compel him
to be a witness against himself in a criminal case, is not
relevant to the decision on this petition.
Messrs. Arthur Levitt and Nathan L. Miller, with Nvhom
Messrs. Harold Allen Gates and Challen B. Ellis were on
the brief, for Tipaldo.
The challenged statute vests the Wage Board and the
Industrial Commissioner with arbitrary power; it prescribes no standard of measure whatsoever. Wichita
Railroad & Light Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 260
U. S. 48, 59. A board is empowered to impose a standard,
not for one employer or one group of employees, but for
all employees in an industry; and in the last analysis any

MOREHEAD v. N. Y. EX REL. TIPALDO.
587

595

Argument for Tipaldo.

such standard is bound to be merely a compromise of individual opinion.
The statute permits a review only of questions "of law
included or embodied in any decision or order of the commissioner or the director."
The construction given by the New York Court of
Appeals is controlling. Hicklin v. Coney, 290 U. S. 169,
172; Knights of Pythias v. Meyer, 265 U. S. 30, 32; Tioga
R. Co. v. Blossburg & Corning R. Co., 20 Wall. 137, 143;
McKeen v. Delaney's Lessee, 5 Cranch 22, 32.
The standard of "value of the service or class of service rendered" possesses the infirmities of the living wage
standard considered in the Adkins case, and whilst superficially the language of subdivision 8 of § 551 of the Act
may appear to have some relation to the service performed, upon analysis the wage basis has no substantial
"causal connection" with the business, the contract of
employment, or the work done by the employee.
We have understood, and believe the bench and bar
throughout the country have understood, that the Adkins
case decided a question much more fundamental than
that of the standard involved, namely,-the question of
validity of any mere wage-fixing law as applied to adult,
legally competent women.
The decision in that case was twice reaffirmed by this
Court. Murphy v. Sardell, 269 U. S. 530; Donham v.
West-Nelson Mfg. Co., 273 U. S. 657.
It was cited with approval in Wolff Co. v. Industrial
Court, 262 U. S. 522, 534, and in Near v. Minnesota, 283
U. S. 697, 707-708.
It is unnecessary to consider whether a statute would
be constitutional which enabled the employee to recover
the reasonable value of her services despite an agreement
for a lesser sum. We are concerned here with the establishment of standards by a Wage Board which need have
little or no relation to the value of the particular service

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Tipaldo.

298 U. S.

rendered. To say that such a standard is based on quantum meruit is to ignore the essentials of quantum meruit.
As in the Adkins case, the challenged Act "is not a law
dealing with any business charged with a public -interest,
or with public work, or to meet and tide over a temporary
emergency. It has nothing to do with the character,
methods or periods of wage payments. It does not prescribe the hours of labor or conditions under which labor
is to be done. It is not for the protection of persons under legal disability or for the prevention of fraud. It is
simply and exclusively a price-fixing law, . . ." (p. 554).

Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S. 502 and O'Gorman &
Young v. Hartford Fire Ins. Co., 282 U. S. 251 fall under
the exceptions considered in the Adkins case.
The suggestion that there has been a change in conditions to warrant a departure now from the Adkins case
is fanciful. We have had a depression, but the challenged
Act is not an emergency statute. The Legislature of
New York did pass a companion Act at the same time,
known as the Desmond Act; which was applicable to
both men and women and was called an emergency measure; but the Governor vetoed it because of doubts of its
constitutional validity. So far from justifying a minimum
wage law, a depression makes such a law the more harmful and oppressive by increasing the difficulty of the least
efficient in securing employment. But the statute is not
an emergency statute. There is nothing new in the alleged inequality of bargaining power and there is nothing
peculiar to women in it; indeed the breadwinner of the
family, usually a man, is under as great compulsion to
secure employment as women, certainly under greater
compulsion than those women who seek employment to
eke out other means of income or support. The inequality of bargaining power was recognized by this Court
as far back as Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, 397,
sustaining a health measure.

MOREHEAD v. N. Y. EX REL. TIPALDO.
587

597

Argument for Tipaldo.

The fact brief submitted by the Attorney General of
New York indicates an increase in the number of women
employed in. industry, but of course there are still a
great many more necessitous men than women so employed. The increase would appear to indicate an improvement in the status of women in industry; and from
facts adduced by the Attorney General it would appear
that the wages of women were much less seriously affected
by the depression than the wages of men. Nothing new
is added to the factual situation presented to this Court
in the Adkins case. A social philosophy in conflict with
the fundamental principles of the American Constitution
has doubtless gained many adherents since that case was
decided, but every argument that can be presented in
favor of minimum wage legislation was heard and considered then.
Few bargains have ever been made between parties of
exactly equal bargaining power, and undoubtedly that is
especially true in the case of contracts of employment.
Adam Smith considered the disparity in bargaining
power between employee and employer in his "Wealth of
Nations" in 1776. To overcome that inequality, the law
favors and zealously safeguards the right of collective
bargaining. That inequality justifies statutes to prevent
fraud and overreaching. McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S.
539; Knoxville Iron Co. v. Harbison, 183 U. S. 13; Erie
R. Co. v. Williams, 233 U. S. 685. But all this is very far
from the establishment by a state agency of a standard
of wages, whether minimum or maximum, for an
industry.
This Court has always considered freedom of contract
not only as a constitutional right, but as a natural
right,-as one of the inalienable rights with which man
was endowed by his Creator. Butchers' Union Co. v.
Crescent City Co., 111 U. S. 746, 757; Allgeyer v.
Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578, 589; Adair v. United States,

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Tipaldo.

298 U. S.

208 U. S. 161, 174; Coppage v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 1,
14; Prudential Insurance Co. v. Cheek, 259 U. S. 530,
536; Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33, 41; Meyer v. Nebraska,
262 U. S. 390, 399-400; Wolff Co. v. Industrial Court,
262 U. S. 522, 534.
Distinguishing: O'Gorman & Young v. Hartford Fire
Ins. Co., 282 U. S. 251; Bunting v. Oregon, 243 U. S. 426;
Holcombe v. Creamer, 231 Mass. 99.
The Fourteenth Amendment is a imtation of the
police power and that power cannot be so exercised as
to destroy the limitation. Home Bldg. & Loan Assn. v.
Blaisdell, 290 U. S. 398, 439.
The instant case involves the destruction, as a permanent policy, of the right of parties, under no disability,
freely to contract, the one to render services and the other
to pay therefor. Terms are to be prescribed by an administrative agency. We say that the direct end sought
is private benefit and that the supposed public benefit is
at most indirect. Constitutional guarantees cannot be
stricken down for the benefit of individuals or groups on
the theory that that will ultimately benefit the public.
The indirect public interest in the wages paid the workers is greatest in the case of wages paid to men. Men,
as a rule, are the heads of the families, the breadwinrers.
Many more men than women are employed in industry.
Inequality of bargaining power between employer and
employee is not peculiar to women employees; indeed the
pressure upon the breadwinner is the greatest.
The so-called "chiseler," who pays low wages and is
thus able to undersell his competitor, has long been in disfavor, but the "chiseler's" main advantage results from
low wages paid to men. Enlightenment and the pressure of public opinion are gradually removing that socalled source of unfair competition. The suggestion that
it is competent for the State to fix the price which every
employer shall pay to his employees, indirectly to prevent

MOREHEAD v. N. Y. EX REL. TIPALDO.
587

599

Argument for Tipaldo.

some employers from underselling their competitors,
serves to emphasize the point that the so-called public interest claimed to be promoted is wholly indirect. The
liberties of all are not to be destroyed because of the sins
of some.
The claim still made that this is a health measure also
emphasizes our point. This Court has three times rejected that claim. Adkins v. Children's Hospital, 261
U. S. 525; Murphy v. Sardell, 269 U. S. 530; Donhamv.
West-Nelson Mfg. Co., 273 U. S. 657. If it were a health
measure, the wages paid to heads of families would most
certainly be the first to be regulated. There is basis for
saying that excessive hours of labor and night work
for women directly affect the health of the worker; and
therefore hours and night work statutes, whether wise or
unwise, were within the competency of the legislatures,
though thousands of women were deprived of comfortable jobs under healthful surroundings by the night statutes; but the wages paid affect the health of the recipients only indirectly, as this Court necessarily decided in
the cases just cited.
The physical differences between men and women may
furnish reason for discrimination between them, both as
to night statutes and as to hours statutes, but the alleged
differences in bargaining power are illusory and are
wholly irrelevant to the question before the Court. It is
said that the statistics show that the wages paid women
are on the whole less than the wages paid men for similar
work. Undoubtedly that is one of the reasons for the alleged increase in the number of women employed in industry. It might solve the unemployment problem as
far as men are concerned to require equal pay for men
and women, but that would furnish little consolation to
women deprived of the right and opportunity to work for
a wage which they were glad to receive. It is said that
men are better organized than women, but women may

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Tipaldo.

298 U. S.

organize the same as men. It is said that the garment
workers receive higher wages than the laundry workers
because they are better organized. That merely indicates
that the women are learning the advantages of collective
bargaining. It is said that women are willing to work
for less than men to supplement income from other
sources, We say that that is their right, protected by
the Constitution, and that it is not for the State to deny
them that right on the theory that it may indirectly
affect others. The fact is, that the inevitable tendency
of establishing minimum wages is to lower the maximum,
if the minimum is high enough to be effective, and to
displace women with men workers wherever men can be
employed at comparable rates.
Freedom from price-fixing is the rule and not the
'exception. Pattersonv. Bark Eudora, 190 U. S. 169, 174;
Ribnik v. McBride, 277 U. S. 350, 357; Adair v. United
States, 208 U. S. 161, 174-175.
The desirability of price-fixing as a speedy remedy for
supposed evils, and the difficulty of dealing with them
by other methods, constitute no warrant for this interference with the "freedom of contract." Hurtado v.
California, 110 U. S. 516; Loan Association v. Topeka,
20 Wall. 655-662; Bailey v. Drexel Furniture Co., 259
U. S. 20, 37; Pennsylvania Coal Co. v. Mahon, 260 U. S.
394, 415; Tyson & Bro. v. Banton, 273 U. S. 418, 445;
Ribnik v. McBride, 277 U. S. 350, .358.
Rate-making, being a taking of property for supposed
public benefit, must comply with the requirements of
just compensation. Cotting v. Kansas City, 183 U. S. 79,
91; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466, 547; Board v. N. Y.
Telephone Co., 271 U. S. 23, 31; West v. Chesapeake &
Potomac Tel. Co., 295 U. S. 662, 671.
Price-fixing is justified only as a protection to the consuming and using public, and the price regulated is the
price paid by the public. O'Gorman & Young v. Hart-

MOREHEAD v. N. Y. EX REL. TIPALDO.
587

Argument for Tipaldo.

ford Insurance Co., 282 U. S. 251; Nebbia v. New York,
291 U. S. 502; Wolff Co. v. Industrial Court, 262 U. S.
522; Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United States, 280 U. S.
420.
The results reached in these cases and in many others
on this subject, are uniformly consistent with the vital
distinction between property and labor in the matter of
constitutional price-fixing; one is the taking of "property," the other is a taking of "liberty," both mentioned in 'the Constitution and both protected by the
constitutional guaranties, as rights; but the right of
property and the right to liberty are essentially different in their nature and in the relation of the State
to them. Property, however absolute and unqualified
may be the title to it, originates from the State, and
is held under the implied condition that its use shall not
be injurious to an equal enjoyment by others having an
equal right. Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, 392, quoting Chief Justice Shaw in Commonwealth v. Alger, 7
Cush. 84. But liberty is not held at the will of the State.
It does not revert to the State, and it cannot be taken
by the State except as a punishment for crime or in time
of war. The right of property is a conditioned right,
but the right to liberty is a prerequisite to the very organization of a government such as ours. Nothing is
better settled in our constitutional law than that liberty
does not mean merely freedom from physical restraint, but
includes the right to work for a living by using the powers
of brain and muscle in the ordinary activities of mankind. Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33, 41.
When property is taken for public use, the equivalent
may always be given in return. But liberty has no constitutional "equivalent in money," under our system of
government.
Working for wages cannot, in the very nature of
things, be a business devoted to a public use. Ribnik v.

602

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

McBride, 277 U. S. 350, 356; Wolff Co. v. Industrial
Court, 262 U. S. 522, 539, 540.
By leave of Court, Mr. Dean G. Acheson argued the
case on behalf of the States of Connecticut, Illinois, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, and Rhode Island, as amici curiae, in support of the statute. With
him on the brief were Mr. Edward J. Daly, Attorney General of Connecticut; Mr. Otto Kerner, Attorney General
*of Illinois; Mr. Paul A. Dever', Attorney General of Massachusetts; Mr. David T. Wilentz, Attorney General of
New Jersey; Mr. Francis U. Johnston, Attorney General
of New Hampshire; and Mr. John P. Hartigan,Attorney
General of Rhode Island.
By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed as
follows:
Mr. John W. Bricker, Attorney General, Messrs. Isadore
Topper and John K. Evans, Assistant Attorneys General,
and Messrs. William S. Evatt and Marvin C. Harrison,on
behalf of the State of Ohio; and Messrs. Paul Windels,
Paxton Blair, and Paul J. Kern, on behalf of the City of
New York, supporting the statute.
Mr. Charles J. Campbell, on behalf of the New York
State Hotel Assn.; and Burnita Shelton Matthews and
Rebekah Scandrett Greathouse, on behalf of the National
Women's Party et al., challenging the statute.
MR.

JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is a habeas corpus case originating in the supreme
Court of New York. Relator was indicted in the county
court of Kings county and sent to jail to await trial upon
the charge that as manager of a laundry he failed to obey
the mandatory order of the state industrial commissioner
prescribing minimum wages for women employees.

MOREHEAD v. N. Y. EX REL. TIPALDO.
587

603

Opinion of the Court.

The relator's petition for the writ avers that the statute, c. 584 of the 'Laws of 1933 (Cons. Law, c. 31, art. 19)
under which the commissio-ier made the order, insofar
as it purports to authorize him to fix women's wages, is
repugnant to the due process clause, Art. I, § 6, of the
constitution of the State and the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States. The application for the writ is grounded upon the
claim that the state statute is substantially identical with
the minimum wage law enacted by Congress for the District of Columbia, 40 Stat. 960, which in 1923 was condemned by this court as repugnant to the due process
clause of the Fifth Amendment. Adkins v. Children's
Hospital, 261 U. S.525.
The warden's return, without disclosing the commissioner's order, the prescribed wages, the findings essential
to his jurisdiction to establish them, things done in pursuance of the Act, or the allegations of the indictment,
merely shows that under an order of the county court he
was detaining relator for trial. The case was submitted
on petition and return. The court dismissed the writ.
156 Misc. 522; 282 N. Y. S.576. Relator took the case
to the Court of Appeals. It held the Act repugnant to
the due process clauses of the state and federal constitutions. 270 N. Y. 233; 200 N. E. 799. The remittitur
directed that the order appealed from be reversed, the
writ sustained and the prisoner discharged; it certified
that the federal constitutional question was presented
and necessarily passed on. The supreme court entered
judgment as directed- We granted a writ of certiorari.
The Act extends to women and minors in any "occupation" which "shall mean an industry, trade or business
or branch thereof or class of work therein in which women
or minors are gainfully employed, but shall not include
domestic service in the home of the employer or labor

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

on a farm." § 551 (6). It is not an emergency law.
It does not regulate hours or any conditions affecting
safety or protection of employees. It relates only to
wages of adult women and minors. As the record is
barren of details in respect of investigation, findings,
amounts being paid women workers in laundries or elsewhere prior to the order, or of things done to ascertain
the minimum prescribed, we must take it as granted that,
if the State is permitted as against employers and their
women employees to establish and enforce minimum
wages, that power has been validly exerted. It is to be
assumed that the rates have been fairly made in accordance with the procedure prescribed by the Act and in full
compliance with the defined standards. If, consistently
with the due process clause, the State may not enter upon
regulation of the sort undertaken by the challenged enactment, then plainly it cannot by diligence to insure the
establishment of just minima create power to enter that
field. Cf. St. Joseph Stock Yards Co. v. United States,
ante, p. 38; Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. United States,
ante, p. 349.
The Adkins case, unless distinguishable, requires affirmance of the judgment below. The petition for the
writ sought review upon the ground that this case is distinguishable from that one. No application has been
made for reconsideration of the constitutional question
there decided.1 The validity of the principles upon
which that decision rests is not challenged. This court
confines itself to the ground upon which the writ was
'Briefs of amici curiae in support of the application were filed by
the City of New York and the State of Illinois. Briefs on the merits
supporting the New York Act, were filed by the State of Ohio, and
by the States of Connecticut, Illinois, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey and Rhode Island. Briefs for affirmance were
filed by the New York State Hotel Association, National Woman's
Party, National Association of Women Lawyers, et al.

MOREHEAD v. N. Y. EX
587

REL.

TIPALDO.

,605

Opinion of the Court.

asked or granted. Alice State Bank v. Houston Pasture Co., 247 U. S. 240, 242. Clark v. Williard, 294 U. S.
211, 216. Here the review granted was no broader than
that sought by the petitioner. Johnson v. Manhattan
Ry. Co., 289 U. S. 479, 494. He is not entitled and does
not ask to be heard upon the question whether the Adkins case should be overruled. He maintains that it may
be distinguished on the ground that the statutes are
vitally dissimilar.
The District of Columbia Act provided for a board to
ascertain and declare "standards of minimum wages" for
wonren in any occupation and what wages were "inadequate to supply the necessary cost of living to any such
women workers to maintain them in good health and to
protect their morals." § 9. Violations were punishable
by fine and imprisonment. § 18. The declared purposes
were to protect women from conditions detrimental to
their health and morals, resulting from wages inadequate
to maintain decent standards of living. § 23.
The New York Act declares it to be against public policy for any employer to employ any woman at an oppressive and unreasonable wage (§ 552) defined as one which
is "both less than the fair and reasonable value of the
services rendered and less than sufficient to meet the minimum cost of living necessary for health." § 551 (7).
"A fair wage" is one "fairly and reasonably commensurate with the value of the service or class of service rendered." § 551 (8). If the commissioner is of opinion
that any substantial number of women in any occupation
are receiving oppressive and unreasonable wages he shall
appoint a wage board to report upon the establishment of
minimum fair wage rates. § 554. After investigation,
the board shall submit a report including its recommendations as to minimum fair wage standards. § 555.
And for administrative guidance, the Act declares: "In
establishing a minimum fair wage for any service or class

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

of service under this article the commissioner and the
wage board without being bound by any technical rules
of evidence or procedure (1) may take into account all
relevant circumstances affecting the value of the service
or class of service rendered, and (2) may be guided by
like considerations as would guide a court in a suit for
the reasonable value of services rendered where services
are rendered at the request of an employer without contract as to the amount of the wage to be paid, and (3)
may consider the wages paid in the state for work of like
or comparable character by employers who voluntarily
maintain minimum fair wage standards." § 551 (8).
If the commissioner accepts the report, he shall publish it and a public hearing must be held. § 556. If after
the hearing he approves the report, he "shall make a diectory order which shall define minimum fair wage
rates." § 557. Upon hearing and finding of disobedience
the commissioner may publish the name of an employer as having failed to observe the directory order.
§ 559. If, after a directory order has been in effect for
nine months, the commissioner is of opinion that persistent non-observance is a threat to the maintenance
of the prescribed standards, he may after hearing make
the order mandatory. § 560. Violation of a mandatory order is a misdemeanor punishable by fine, imprisonment or both. § 565 (2).
Thus it appears: The minimum wage provided for in
the District Act was one not less than adequate "to supply the necessary cost of living to any such women workers to maintain them in good health and to protect their
morals." The New York Act defines an oppressive and
unreasonable.wage as containing two elements. The one
first mentioned is: "less than the fair and reasonable value
of the services rendered." The other is: "less than sufficient to meet the minimum cost of living necessary for
health." The basis last mentioned is not to be distin-

MOREHEAD v. N. Y. EX REL. TIPALDO.
587

607

Opinion of the Court.

guished from the living wage defined in the District act.
The exertion of the granted power to prescribe minimum
wages is by the State act conditioned upon a finding by
the commissioner or other administrative agency that a
substantial number of women in any occupation are receiving wages that are oppressive and unreasonable, i. e.,
less than value of the service and less than a living wage.
That finding is essential to jurisdiction of the commissioner. In the state court there was controversy between
the parties as to whether the "minimum fair wage rates"
are required to be established solely upon value of service or upon that value and the living wage. Against the
contention of the attorney general, the Court of Appeals
held that the minimum wage must be based on both
elements.
Speaking through its chief judge, that court said: "We
find no material difference between the act of Congress
and this act of the New York State Legislature. The act
of Congress, it is said, was to protect women from conditions resulting from wages which were inadequate to
maintain decent standards of living." The opinion then
quotes from the brief of the attorney general: "'The
purpose of the statute in the Adkins case was to guarantee a wage based solely upon the necessities of the workers. The statute did not provide for the wages to have
any relationship to earning power; was applicable to all
vocations and not to the character of the work . . . As
contrasted with this statute, the New York Minimum
Wage Law provides a definite standard for wages paid.
It provides that the worker is to be paid at least the value
of the services rendered.'"
The opinion continues:
"This is a difference in phraseology and not in principle.
The New York act, as above stated, prohibits an oppressive and unreasonable wage, which means both less than
the fair and reasonable value of the services rendered and

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

less than sufficient to meet the minimum cost of living
necessary for health. The act of Congress had one standard, the living wage; this State act has added another,
reasonable value. The minimum wage must include
both. What was vague before has not been made any
clearer. One of the elements, therefore, in fixing the fair
wage is the very matter which was the basis of the congressional act. Forcing the payment of wages at a reasonable value does not make inapplicable the principle
and ruling of the Adkins case. The distinctions between
this case and the Adkins case are differences in details,
methods and time; the exercise of legislative power to fix
wages in any employment is the same."
The petitioner does not suggest and reasonably it cannot be thought that, so far as concerns repugnancy to the
due process clause, there is any difference between the
minimum wage law for the District of Columbia and the
clause of the New York Act, "less than sufficient to meet
the minimum cost of living necessary for health." Petitioner does not claim that element was validated by including with it the other ingredient, "less than the fair
and reasonable value of the services rendered."
His brief repeats the state court's declaration: "'The
Act of Congress had one standard, the living wage; this
State act has added another, reasonable value. The
minimum wage must include both. Whit was vague before has not been made any clearer. 'One of the elements,
therefore, in fixing the fair wage is the very matter which
was the basis of the congressional act.' " Then he says:
"The italicized lines carry the Court's misconception of
the statute. It is a basic misconception. From it flows
the erroneous conclusion of the Court of Appeals that
there exists no material difference between the two statutes . . . Those two factors do not enter into the determination of the minimum 'fair wage' as in the statute defined, nor as determined in this ease. The only basis for

MOREHEAD v. N. Y. EX REL. TIPALDO.
587

609

Opinion of the Court.

evaluating and arriving at the 'fair minimum wage' is the
fair value of the services rendered."
There is no blinking the fact that the state court construed the prescribed standard to include cost of living
or that petitioner here refuses to accept that construction. Petitioner's contention that the Court of Appeals
misconstrued the Act cannot be entertained. This court
is without power to put a different construction upon the
state enactment from that adopted by the highest court
of the State. We are not at liberty to consider petitioner's argument based on the construction repudiated
by that court. The meaning of the statute as fixed by
its decision must be accepted here as if the meaning had
been specifically expressed in the enactment. Knights of
Pythias v. Meyer, 265 U. S. 30, 32. Exclusive authority
to enact carries with it final authority to say what the
measure means. Jones v. Prairie Oil Co., 273 U. S. 195,
200. The standard of "minimum fair wage rates" for
women workers to be prescribed must be considered as if
both elements-value of service and living wage-were
embodied in the statutory definition itself. International
Harvester Co. v. Kentucky, 234 U. S. 216, 220. As our
construction of an Act of Congress must be deemed by
state courts to be the law of the United States, so this
New York Act as construed by her court of last resort,
must here be taken to express the intention and purpose
of her lawmakers. Green v. Neal's Lessee, 6 Pet. 291,
295-298.
The state court rightly held that the Adkins case controls this one and requires that relator be discharged upon
the ground that the legislation under which he was indicted and imprisoned is repugnant to the due process
*clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The general statement in the New York Act of the
fields of labor it includes, taken in connection with the
work not covered, indicates legislative intention to reach
65773--36--39

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

nearly all private employers of women. The Act does
not extend to men. It does extend to boys and girls
under the age of 21 years but there is here involved no
question as to its validity in respect of wages to be prescribed for them. Relator's petition for the writ shows
that the charge against him is that as manager of a laundry he "disobeyed a mandatory order prescribing certain
minimum wages for certain adult women employees of
the said laundry." The rights of no other class of workers are here involved.
Upon the face of the act the question arises whether
the State may impose upon the employers state-made
minimum wage rates for all competent experienced
women workers whQm they may have in their service.
That question involves another one. It is: Whether the
State has power similarly to subject to state-made wages
all adult women employed in trade, industry or business,
other than hvuse and farm work. These were the questions decided in the Adkins case. So far at least as concerns the validity of the enactment under consideration,
the restraint imposed by the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment upon legislative power of the
State is the same as that imposed by the corresponding
provision of the Fifth Amendment upon the legislative
power of the United States.
This court's opinion shows (pp. 545, 546): The right
to make contracts about one's affairs is a part of the liberty protected by the due process clause. Within this
liberty are provisions of contracts between employer and
employee fixing the wages to be paid. In making contracts of employment, generally speaking, the parties
have equal right to obtain from each other the best terms
they can by private bargaining. Legislative abridgement
of that freedom can only be justified by the existence of
exceptional circumstances. Freedom of contract is the

MOREHEAD v. N. Y. EX EEL. TIPALDO.
587

Opinion of the Court.

general rule and restraint the exception. This court has
found not repugnant to the due process clause statutes
fixing rates and charges to be exacted by businesses impressed with a public interest, relating to contracts for
the performance of public work, prescribing the character,
methods and time of payment of wages, fixing hours of
labor. Physical differences between men and women
must be recognized in proper cases and legislation fixing
hours or conditions of work may properly take them into
account, but (p. 553) "we cannot accept the doctrine that
women of mature age, sui juris, require or may be subjected to restrictions upon their liberty of contract which
could not lawfully be imposed in the case of men under
similar circumstances. To do so would be to ignore all
the implications to be drawn from the present day trend
of legislation, as well as that of common thought and
usage, by which woman is accorded emancipation from
the old doctrine that she must be given special protection or be subjected to special restraint in her contractual
and civil relationships. . . . [p. 554] Enough has been
said to show that the authority to fix hours of labor cannot be exercised except in respect of those occupations
where work of long continued duration is detrimental to
health. This Court has been careful in every case where
the question has been raised, to place its decision upon
this limited authority of the legislature to regulate hours
of labor and to disclaim any purpose to uphold the legislation as fixing wages; thus recognizing an essential difference between the two. It seems plain that these
decisions afford no real support for any form of law
establishing minimum wages."
The decision and the reasoning upon which it rests
clearly show that the State is without power by any form
of legislation to prohibit, change or nullify contracts between employers and adult women workers as to the
amount of wages to be paid.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

29813.S.

Then, the opinion emphasizes objections specifically
applicable to the requirement that the minimum wages
to be prescribed under the District Act shall be adequate
"to supply the necessary cost of living to any such women
workers to maintain them in good health and to protect
their morals." Some of them were: The price fixed by
the board need have no relation to earning powers, hours
or place or character of work; it is based wholly on opinion of the board as to what amount will be necessary to
comply with the standard; it applies to every occupation without regard to the kind of work; the standard
is so vague as to be impossible of practical application;
the Act takes account of the necessities of only the employee; to the extent that the sum fixed exceeds fair
value of service rendered, it amounts to a compulsory
exaction for the support of a partially indigent person for
whose condition there rests upon the employer no peculiar responsibility; the statute exacts from the employer an arbitrary payment for a purpose and upon a
basis having no causal connection with his business or
the contract or the work the employee engages to do;
the declared basis is not the value of the service rendered
but the extraneous circumstance that the employee needs
to get a prescribed sum of money to insure her subsistence, health and morals. The court said (p. 558):
"The ethical right of every worker, man or woman, to a
living wage may be conceded. . . . The fallacy of the
proposed method of attaining it is that it assumes that
every employer is bound at all events to furnish it. The
moral requirement, implicit in every contract of employment, viz., that the amount to be paid and the service
to be rendered shall bear to each other some relation of
just equivalence, is completely ignored. The necessities
of the employee are alone considered and these arise outside of the employment and are as great in one occupation as in another."

MOREHEAD v. N. Y. EX REL. TIPALDO.
587

Opinion of the Court.

Illustrating particular constitutional difficulties encountered by the enactment then before us, the opinion
proceeds (p. 559): "Should a statute undertake to vest
in a,commission power to determine the quantity of food
necessary for individual support and require the shopkeeper, if he sell to the individual at all, to furnish that
quantity at not more than a fixed maximum, itwould
urdoubtedly fall before the constitutional test. The fallacy of any argument in support of the validity of such
a statute would be quickly exposed. The argument in
support of that now being considered is equally fallacious, though the weakness of it may not be so plain.
A statute requiring an employer to pay in money, to pay
at prescribed and regular intervals, to pay the value of
the services rendered, even to pay with fair relation to
the extent of the benefit obtained from the service, would
be understandable. But a statute which prescribes payment without regard to any of these things, and solely
with relation to circumstances apart from the contract
of employment, the business affected by it and the work
done under it, is so clearly the product of a naked, arbitrary exercise of power that it cannot be allowed to
stand under the Constitution of the United States."
Petitioner does not attempt to support the Act as construed by the state court. His claim is that it is to be
tested here as if it did not include the cost of living and
as if value of service were the sole standard. Plainly that
position is untenable. If the State has power to single
out for regulation the amount of wages to be paid women,
the value of their services would be a material consideration. But that fact has no relevancy upon the question
whether the State has any such power. And utterly
without significance upon the question of power is the
suggestion that the New York prescribed standard includes value of service with cost of living whereas the
District of Columbia standard was based upon the latter

614

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

alone. As shown above, the dominant issue in the Adkins case was whether Congress had power to establish
minimum wages for adult women workers in the District
of Columbia. The opinion directly answers in the negative. The ruling that defects in the prescribed standard
stamped that, Act as arbitrary and invalid was an additional ground of subordinate consequence.
. The dissenting opinion of Mr. Chief Justice Taft (cn
which Mr. Justice Sanford concurred) assumes (p. 564)
"that the conclusion in this [Adkins] case rests on the
distinction between a minimum of wages and a maximum
of hours." That is the only point he discussed; he did
not refer to the validity of the standard prescribed by
the Act. The dissenting opinion of Mr. Justice Holmes
begins (p. 567): "The question in this case is the broad
one, Whether Congress can establish minimum rates of
wages for women in the District of Columbia with due
provision for special iircuinstances, or whether we must
say that Congress has no power to meddle with the matter at all." And, after assuming that women would not
be employed at the wages fixed unless they were earned
or unless the employer could pay them, the opinion says
(p. 570): "But the ground on which the law is held
to fail is fundlamental and therefore it is unnecessary to
consider matters of detail." If the decision of the court
turned upon the question of the validity of the particular standard, that question could not have been ignored
by the justices who were in favor of upholding the Act.
Clearly they understood-and rightly-that, by the opinion of the court, it was held that Congress was without
power to deal with the subject at all.
To distinguish this from the Adkins case, petitioner refers to changes in conditions that have come since that
decision, cites great increase during recent years in the
number of women wage earners and invokes the first
section of the Act, called "Factual background."

MOREHEAD ?. N. Y. EX REL. TIPALDO.
587

615

Opinion of the Court.

The Act is not to meet an emergency; it discloses a
permanent policy; the increasing number of women workers suggests that more and more they are getting and
holding jobs that otherwise would belong to men. The
"Factual background" must be read in the light of the
circumstances attending its enactment. The New York
legislature passed Iwo minimum wage measures and contemporaneously submitted them to the governor. One
was approved; it is the Act now before us. The other
was vetoed and did not become law. They contained
the same definitions of oppressive wage and fair wage and
in general provided the same machinery and procedure
culminating in fixing minimum wages by directory orders.
The one vetoed was for an emergency; it extended to men
as well as to women employees; it did not provide for the
enforcement of wages by mandatory orders.
It is significant that their "factual backgrounds" are
much alike. They are indicated in the margin.- These
Omitting the words in brackets, the following is the factual background in the first section of the Act before us. Adding the words in
brackets and omitting those in italics, there is indicated the background in the bill that was not approved.
"The employment of [men and] women and minors in trade and
industry in the state of New York at wages unreasonably low and
not fairly commensurate with the value of the services rendered is a
matter of grave and vital public concern. Many [men and] women
and minors employed for gain in the state of New York are not as
a class upon a level of equality in bargaining with their employers in
regard to minimum fair wage standards, and 'freedom of contract' as
applied to their relations with their employers is illusory. Since a
very large percentage of such workers are obliged from their week to
week wages to support themselves and others who are dependent
upon them in whole or in part they are, by reason of their necessitous
circumstances, forced to accept whatever wages are offerd to them.
Judged by any reasonable standard, wages are in many cases fixed
by chance and caprice and the wages accepted are often found to
bear no relation 'to the fair value of the service rendered. Women
and minors employed for gain are peculiarly subject to the over-

616

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

legislative declarations, in form of findings or recitals of
fact, serve well to illustrate why any measure that deprives employers and adult women of freedom to agree
upon wages, leaving employers and men employees free
so to do, is necessarily arbitrary. Much, if not all, that
in them is said in justification of the regulations that the
Act imposes in respect of women's wages applies with
equal force in support of the same regulation of men's
wages. While men are left free to fix their wages by
agreement with employers, it would be fanciful to suppose that the regulation of women's wages would be useful to prevent or lessen the evils listed in the first section
of the Act. Men in need of work are as likely as women
to accept the low wages offered by unscrupulous employers. Men in greater number than women support
themselves and dependents and because of need will work
for whatever wages they can get and that without regard
to the value of the service and even though the pay is
less than minima prescribed in accordance with this Act.
It is plain that, under circumstances such as those porreaching of inefficient, harsh or ignorant employers and under unregulated competition whcre no adequate machinery exists for the
effective regulation and maintenance of minimum fair wage standards, [and] the standards such as exist tend to be set by the least
conscionable employers. In the absence of any effective minimum
fair wage rates for women and minors, the constant lowering of wages
by unscrupulous employers constitutes a serious form of unfair competition against other employers, reduces the purchasing power of
the workers [a large proportion of the population of the state] and
threatens the stability of industry. The evils of oppressive, unreasonable and unfair wages as they affect women and minors employed
in the state of New York are such as to render imperative the exercise of the police power of the state for the protection of industry
and of the [men and] women and minors employed therein and of
the public interest of the community at large in their health and
well-being and in the prevention of the deterioration of the
race. In the considered judgment of the legislature this article is
constitutional."

MOREHEAD v. N. Y. EX REL. TIPALDO.
587

617

Opinion of the Court.

trayed in the "Factual background," prescribing of minimum wages for women alone would unreasonably restrain
them in competition with men and tend arbitrarily
to deprive them of employment and a fair chance to
find work.
This court, on the authority of the Adkins case and
with the acquiescence of all the justices who dissented
from the decision,- held repugnant to the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment statutes of Arizona
and Arkansas,4 respectively, fixing minimum wages for
women. Murphy v. Sardell, 269 U. S. 530. Donham v.
West-Nelson Mfg. Co., 273 U. S. 657. We have adhered
to the principle there applied and cited it as a guide in
other cases. Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U. S. 390, 399.
Wolff Packing Co. v. Industrial Court, 262 U. S. 522, 534.
Ribnik v. McBride, 277 U. S. 350, 356. See Near v. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 697, 707-708. States having simiiar enactments have construed it to prevent the fixing of wages
for adult women. Topeka Laundry Co. v. Court of In'MvIr. Justice Brandeis took no part in the consideration of the
Adkins case. He noted dissent without more in the Arizona case and
Arkansas case.
'The Arizona Act declared: "No person . . . shall employ any

female in any store, office, shop, restaurant, dining room, hotel, rooming house, laundry or manufacturing establishment at a weekly wage
of less than Sixteen Dollars (816.00) per week; a lesser amount being
hereby declared inadequate to supply the necessary cost of living to
any such female, to maintain her health, and to provide her with
the common necessaries of life." Laws of Arizona, 1923, c. 3, § 1.
The Arkansas Act declared: "It shall be unlawful for any employer . . .to pay any female worker in any establishment or occu-

pation less than the wage specified in this section, to-wit, except as
hereinafter provided: "All female workers who have had six months'
practicable experience in any line of industry or labor shall be paid
not less than one dollar and twenty-five cents per day. The minimum wage for inexperienced female workers who have not had six
months experience in any line of industry or labor shall be paid not
less than one dollar per day." § 7108, Crawford & Moses Digest.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
HUGHES,

C. J., dissenting.

298 U.S.

dustrial Relations, 119 Kan. 12; 237 Pac. 1041. Stevenson v. St. Clair, 161 Minn. 444; 201 N. W. 629. See Folding Furniture Works v. Industrial Commission, 300 Fed.
991. People v. Successors of Laurnaga & Co., 32 P. R.
766.
The New York court's decision conforms to ours in the
Adkins case, and the later rulings that we have made on
the authority of that case. That decision was deliberately made upon careful consideration of the oral arguments and briefs of the respective parties and also of
briefs submitted on behalf of States and others as amici
curiae. In the Arizona case the attorney general sought
to distinguish the District of Columbia Act from the legislation then before us and insisted that the latter was a
valid exertion of the police power of the State. Counsel
for the California commission submitted a brief amicus
curiae in which he elaborately argued that our decision
in the Adkins case was erroneous and ought to be overruled. In the Arkansas case the state officers, appellants
there, by painstaking and thorough brief presented arguments in favor of the same contention. But this court,
after thoughtful attention to all that was suggested
against that decision, adhered to it as sound. And in
each case, being .clearly of opinion that no discussion was
required to show that, having regard to the principles
applied in the Adkins case, the state legislation fixing
wages for women was repugnant to the due process clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment, we so held and upon the
authority of that case affirmed per curiam the decree enjoining its enforcement. It is equally plain that the
judgment in the case now before us must also be
Affirmed.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE

HUGHES,

dissenting.

I am unable to concur in the opinion in this case. In
view of the difference between the statutes involved, I

MOREHEAD v. N. Y. EX
587

HUGHES,

REL.

TIPALDO.

C. J., dissenting.

cannot agree that the case should be regarded as controlled by Adkins v. Children's Hospital, 261 U. S. 525.
And I can find nothing in the Federal Constitution which
denies to the State the power to protect women from being exploited by overreaching employers through the refusal of a fair wage as defined in the New York statute
and ascertained in a reasonable manner by competent
authority.
First.-Relator in his petition for habeas corpus raises
no question as to the fairness of the minimum wage he
was required to pay. He does not challenge the regularity of the proceedings by which the amount of that wage
was determined. We must assume that none of the safeguards of the statute was ignored and that its provisions
for careful and deliberate procedure were followed in all
respects. It is important at the outset to note the requirements of that procedure, as they at once dispose of
any question of arbitrary procedural action.
The statute states its objectives. It defines an "oppressive and unreasonable wage" as one which "is both
less than the fair and reasonable value of the services
rendered and less than sufficient to meet the minimum
cost of living necessary for health." It defines a "fair
wage" as one "fairly and reasonably commensurate with
the value of the service or class of service rendered." It
relates to an industry, trade or business, other than domestic service or labor on a farm. The industrial commissioner is authorized to investigate and ascertain the
wages of women and minors. If he is of the opinion that
any substantial number of women or minors are receiving
"oppressive and unreasonable" wages, he must appoint a
wage board to make report. That board is to be composed of not more than three representatives of employers, an equal number of representatives of employees,
and not more than three disinterested persons representing the public. The wage board is fully equipped with

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
HUGHES,

C. J., dissenting.

298 U. S.

authority to conduct a comprehensive investigation. It
may differentiate and classify employments in any occupation according to the nature of the service renddered. It may recommend minimum fair wage rates
varying with localities. It may recommend a suitable
scale of rates for learners and apprentices which may be
less than those recommended for experienced women or
minor workers. The wage board may take into account
all relevant circumstances affecting the value of the
service or class of service. It may be guided by such
considerations as would guide a court in a suit for the
reasonable value of services rendered. It may consider
the wages paid in the State for work of like or comparable character by employers who voluntarily maintain minimum fair wage standards.
The commissioner may approve or disapprove the report of the wage board. If the commissioner disapproves,
he may resubmit the matter to the same or a new board.
In case the report is approved, the commissioner is to
make a "directory order" which defines minimum "fair
wage rates" and is to include appropriate administrative
regulations. The latter may embrace regulations governing learners, apprentices, piece rates or their relation to
time rates, overtime or part-time rates, bonuses or special
pay for special or extra work, deductions for board, lodging and other items or services supplied by the employer,
and other special conditions. Special licenses, authorizing employment at lower rates, may be issued to a woman
or minor whose earning capacity is impaired by age or
physical or mental deficiency or injury.
If the commissioner has reason to believe that an employer is not observing the provisions of the "directory
order," he may, upon notice, summon the employer to
show cause why his name should not be published as
having failed to comply with the order. And, after hearing and in case of a finding of non-observance, the com-

MOREHEAD v. N. Y. EX REL. TIPALDO.
587

HUGHES,

621

C. J., dissenting.

missioner may cause the name of the employer to be
published. After a "directory minimum fair wage order"
has been in effect for nine months, if it appears that there
has been persistent non-observance, notice may be given
of the intention to make the order mandatory and of a
public hearing at which all persons in favor of, or opposed to, such a mandatory order mty be heard. And it
is after such hearing that the commissioner may make the
previous directory order or any part of it mandatory and
publish it accordingly.
It is disobedience to such a mandatory order which is
punished by fine or by imprisonment. It is the violation
of such an order, made after the inquiries, report, the
tentative order, and the hearings which the statute enjoins, that is the basis of the prosecution in the case at
bar.
Second.-In reaching its conclusion, the state court
construed the opinion in the Adkins case and deemed
that ruling applicable here. That, however, is a construction of the decision of this Court. That construction is not binding upon us.
When the opinion, of the state court is examined in
order to ascertain what construction was placed upon the
statute, we find little more than a recital of its provisions.
The state court says: "The New York act, as above
stated, prohibits an oppressive and unreasonable wage,
which means both less than the fair and reasonable value
of the services rendered and less than sufficient to meet
the minimum cost of living necessary for health." This
is a repetition of the words of the statute in subdivision
7 of § 551 defining an "oppressive and unreasonable
wage." The court adds: "The act of Congress [in the
Adkins case] had one standard, the living wage; this
State act has added another, reasonable value. The
minimum wage must include both. What was vague before has not been made any clearer. One of the elements,

622

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
HUGHES,

C. J., dissenting.

298 U.S.

therefore, in fixing the fair wage is the very matter which
was the basis of the congressional act." But the court
expressly recognizes that a wage is not denounced by the
New York act as "oppresive and unreasonable" unless it
is less than the fair and reasonable value of the services
rendered. The statute also provides in explicit terms
that the "fair wage" which is to be prescribed is one
that is "fairly and reasonably commensurate with the
value of the service or class of service rendered." I find
nothing in the opinion of the state court which can be
taken to mean that this definite provision of the statute
is not obligatory upon the authorities fixing a fair wage.
Certainly, the court has not said so, and I think that we
must assume that the standard thus described is set up
by the New York act. And there is no suggestion that
the "fair wage" as prescribed in the instant case was not
commensurate with the reasonable value of the service
rendered by the employees.
When the opinion of the state court goes beyond the
statement of the provisions of the act, and says that the
setting up of such a standard does not create a material
distinction when compared with the Act of Congress in
the Adkins ease, the state court is not construing the state
statute. It is passing upon the effect of the difference between the two acts from the standpoint of the Federal
Constitution. It is putting aside an admitted difference
as not controlling. It is holding, as the state court says,
that "Forcing the payment of wages at a reasonable value
does not make inapplicable the principle and ruling of
the Adkins case."
That, it seems to me, is clearly a federal and not a state
question, and I pass to its consideration.
Third.-The constitutional validity of a minimum
wage statute like the New York act has not heretofore
been passed upon by this Court. As I have said, the required correspondence of the prescribed "fair wage" to

MOREHEAD v. N. Y. EX IEL. TIPALDO.
587

HUGHES,

623

C. J., dissenting.

the reasonable value of the service which the employee
performs stands out as an essential feature of the statutory plan. The statute for the District of Columbia
which was before us in the Adkins case did not have that
feature.. That statute provided for a minimum wage adequate "to supply the necessary cost of living to women
workers" and "to maintain them in health and to protect
their morals." 40 Stat. 963. The standard thus set up
did not take account of the reasonable value of the service rendered. As this Court said, it compelled the employer "to pay at least the sum fixed in any event,
because the employee needs it, but requires no service of
equivalent value from the employee." In the cases of
Murphy v. Sardell, 269 U. S. 530, and Donham v. WestNelson Co., 273 U. S. 657, the statutes of Arizona and
Arkansas, respectively, were of a similar character, and
both these cases were decided upon the authority of the
Adkins case. New York and other States have been careful to adopt a different and improved standard, in order
to meet the objection aimed at the earlier statutes, by
requiring a fair equivalence of wage and service.
That the difference is a material one, I think is shown
by the opinion in the Adkins case. That opinion contained a broad discussion of state power, but it singled
out as an adequate ground for the finding of invalidity
that the statute gave no regard to the situation of the
employer and to the reasonable value of the service for
which the wage was paid. Upon this point the Court
said (261 U. S. pp. 558, 559):
"The feature of this statute which, perhaps more than
any other, puts upon it the stamp of invalidity is that it
exacts from the employer an arbitrary payment for a
purpose and upon a basis having no causal connection
with his business, or the contract or the work the employee engages to do. The declared basis, as already

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
HUGHES,

C. J., dissenting.

298 U. S.

pointed out, is not the value of the service rendered, but
the extraneous circumstance that the employee needs to
get a prescribed sum of money to insure her subsistence,
health and morals. The ethical right of every worker,
man or woman, to a living wage may be conceded. One
of the declared and important purposes of trade organizations is to secure it. And with that principle and with
every legitimate effort to realize it in fact, no one can
quarrel; but the fallacy of the proposed method of attaining it is that it assumes that every employer is bound
at all events to furnish it. The moral requirement implicit in every contract of employment, viz, that the
amount to be paid and the service to be rendered shall
bear to each other some relation of just equivalence, is
. . . A statute requiring an emcompletely ignored.
ployer to pay in money, to pay at prescribed and regular intervals, to pay the value of the services rendered,
even to pay with fair relation to the extent of the benefit
obtained from the service, would be understandable. But
a statute which prescribes payment without regard to
any of these things and solely with relation to circumstances apart from the contract of employment, the business affected by it and the work done under it, is so
clearly the product of a naked, arbitrary exercise of
power that it cannot be allowed to stand under the Constitution of the United States."
As the New York act is free of that feature, so strongly
denounced, the question comes before us in a new aspect.
The Court was closely divided in the Adkins case, and
that decision followed an equal division of the Court,
after reargument, in Stettler v. O'Hara, 243 U. S. 629,
with respect to the validity of the minimum wage law
of Oregon. Such divisions are at times unavoidable, but
they point to the desirability of fresh consideration when
there are material differences in the cases presented. The
fact that in the Adkins case there were dissenting opin-

MOREHEAD v. N. Y. EX REL. TIPALDO.
587

HUGHES, C. J., dissenting.

ions maintaining the validity of the federal statute, despite the nature of the standard it set up, brings out
in stronger relief the ground which was taken most emphatically by the majority in that case, and that there
would have been a majority for the decision in the absence of that ground must be a matter of conjecture.
With that ground absent, the Adkins case ceases to be a
precise authority.
We have here a question of constitutional law of grave
importance, applying to the statutes of several States in
a matter of profound public interest. I think that we
should deal with that question upon its merits, without
feeling that we are bound by a decision which on its facts
is not strictly in point.
Fourth.-The validity of the New York act must be
considered in the light of the conditions to which the
exercise of the protective power of the State was
addressed.
The statute itself recites these conditions and the State
has submitted a voluminous factual brief for the purpose
of showing from various official statistics that these recitals have abundant support. Judge Lehman, in his dissenting opinion in the Court of Appeals, states that the
relator "does not challenge these findings of fact by the
Legislature, nor does he challenge the statements in the
'factual brief' submitted by the respondent to sustain and
amplify these findings." The majority opinion in the
Court of Appeals has nothing to the contrary. Nor is the
statement of the conditions which influenced the legislative action challenged, or challengeable, upon the record
here. Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S.
61, 78-80; Radice v. New York, 264 U. S. 292, 294; Clarke
v. Deckebach, 274 U..S. 392, 397; O'Gorman & Young v.
Hartford Fire Insurance Co., 282 U. S. 251, 257, 258;
Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S. 502, 530; Borden's Farm
Products Co. v. Baldwin, 293 U. S. 194, 209.
65773*-36-40

626

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
HUGHES,

C. J., dissenting.

298 U. S.

The Legislature finds that the employment of women
and minors in trade and industry in the State of New
York at wages unreasonably low and not fairly commensurate with the value of the services rendered is a matter
of vital public concern; that many women and minors
are not as a class upon a level of equality in bargaining
with their employers in regard to minimum fair wage
standards, and that 'freedom of contract' as applied to
their relations with employers is illusory; that, by reason
of the necessity of seeking support for themselves and
their dependents, they are forced to accept whatever wages
are offered; and that judged by any reasonable standard,
wages in many instances are fixed by chance and caprice
and the wages accepted are often found to bear no relation
to the fair value of the service. The Legislature further
states that women and minors are peculiarly subject "to
theoverreaching of inefficient, harsh or ignorant employers," and that, in the absence of effective minimum fair
wage rates, the constant lowering of wages by unscrupulous employers, constitutes a serious form of unfair competition against other employers, reduces the purchasing
power of the workers and threatens the stability of industry. The Legislature deemed it essential to seek the
correction of these evils by the exercise of the police
power "for the protection of industry and of the women
and minors employed therein and of the interest of the
community at large in their health and well-being
and in the prevention of the deterioration of the
race." § 550.
In the factual brief, statistics are presented showing
the increasing number of wage earning women, and that
women are in industry and in other fields of employment
because they must support themselves and their dependents. Data are submitted, from reports of the Women's
Bureau of the United States Department of Labor, showing such discrepancies and variations in wages paid for

MOREHEAD v. N. Y. EX REL. TIPALDO.
587

HUGHES,

C. J., dissenting.

identical work as to indicate that no relationship exists
between the value of the services rendered and the wages
paid. It also appears that working women are largely
unorganized and that their bargaining power is relatively
weak. The seriousness of the social problem is presented.
Inquiries by the New York State Department of Labor
in co6peration with the Emergency Relief Bureau of New
York City disclosed the large number of women employed in industry whose wages were insufficient for the
support of themselves and those dependent upon them.
For that reason they had been accepted for relief and
their wages were being supplemented by payments from
the Emergency Relief Bureau. Thus the failure of overreaching employers to pay to women the wages commensurate with the value of services rendered has imposed a' direc and heavy burden upon the taxpayers.
The weight of this burden and the necessity for taking
reasonable measures to reduce it, in the light of the
enormous annual budgetary appropriation for the Department of Public Welfare of New York City, is strikingly exhibited in the brief filed by the Corporation
Counsel of the City as an amicus curiae.
We are not at liberty to disregard these facts. We
must assume that they exist and examine respondent's
argument from that standpoint. That argument is addressed to the fundamental postulate of liberty of contract. I think that the argument fails to take account
of established principles and ignores the historic relation of the State to the protection of women.
Fifth.-We have had frequent occasion to consider the
limitations of liberty of contract. While it is highly important to preserve that liberty from arbitrary and capricious interference, it is also necessary to prevent -its
abuse, as otherwise it could be used to override all public
interests and thus in the end destroy the very freedom
of opportunity which it is designed to safeguard.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
HUGHES,

C. J., dissenting.

298 U. S.

We have repeatedly said that liberty of contract is a
qualified and not an absolute right. "There is no absolute freedom to do as one wills or to contract as one
chooses. . . Liberty implies the absence of arbitrary restraint, not immunity from reasonable regulations and
prohibitions imposed in the interests of the community."
Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. McGuire, 219 U. S. 549, 567.
The numerous restraints that have been sustained have
often been recited. Id., p. 568. Nebbia v. New York,
supra, pp. 526-528. Thus we have upheld the limitation of hours of employment in mines and smelters
(Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366); the requiring of redemption in cash of store orders or other evidences of
indebtedness issued in payment of wages (Knoxville
Iron Co. v. Harbison, 183 U. S. 13); the prohibition of
contracts for options to sell or buy grain or other commodities at a future time (Booth v. Illinois, 184 U. S.
425); the forbidding of advance payments to seamen
(Patterson v. Bark Eudora, 190 U. S. 169); the prohibition of contracts to pay miners employed at quantity
rates upon the basis of screened coal instead of the
weight of the coal as originally produced in the mine
(McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S. 539); the regulation of
the size and weight of loaves of bread (Schmidinger v.
Chicago, 226 U. S. 578; Petersen Baking Co. v. Bryan,
290 U. S. 576); the regulation of insurance-rates (German Alliance Insurance Co. v. Lewis, 233 U. S. 389;
O'Gorman & Young v. Hartford Insurance Co., supra);
the regulation of the size and character of packages in
which goods are sold (Armour & Co. V. North Dakota,
240 U. S. 510); the limitation of hours of employment
in manufacturing establishments with a specified allowance of overtime payment (Bunting v. Oregon, 243 U. S.
426); the regulation of sales of stocks and bonds to prevent fraud (Hall v. Geiger-Jones Co., 242 U. S. 539); the
regulation of the price of milk (Nebbia v. New York,

MOREHEAD v. N. Y. EX REL. TIPALDO.
587

HUGHES,

C. J., dissenting.

supra). The test of validity is not artificial. It is
whether the limitation upon the freedom of contract is
arbitrary and capricious or one reasonably required in
order appropriately to serve the public interest in the
light of the particular conditions to which the power is
addressed.
When there are conditions which specially touch the
health and well-being of women, the State may exert
its power in a reasonable manner for their protection,
whether or not a similar regulation is, or could be, applied to men. The distinctive nature and function of
women-their particular relation to the social welfarehas put them in a separate class. This separation and
corresponding distinctions in legislation is one of the outstanding traditions of legal history. The Fourteenth
Amendment found the States with that protective power
and did not take it away or remove the reasons for its
exercise. Changes have been effected within the domain
of state policy and upon an appraisal of state interests.
We have not yet arrived at a time when we are at liberty to override the judgment of the State and decide
that women are not the special subject of exploitation
because they are women and as such are not in a relatively defenceless position.
More than forty years after the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment, we said that it did not interfere with
state power by creating "a fictitious equality." Quong
Wing v. Kirkendall, 223 U. S. 59, 63. We called attention to the ample precedents in regulatory provisions for
a classification on the basis of sex. We said-"It has
been recognized with regard to hours of work. . . . It
is recognized in the respective rights of husband and wife
in land during life, in the inheritance after the death of
the spouse. Often it is expressed in the time fixed for
coming of age. . . . The particular points at which
that difference shall be emphasized by legislation are

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
HUGHES,

C. J., dissenting.

298 U. S.

largely in the power of the State." Id. Not long before
the decision in the Quong Wing case, the question had
received elaborate consideration in Muller v. Oregon, 208
T. S. 412, where a regulation of the working hours of
women was sustained. We thought that the disadvantage at which woman was placed in the struggle for subsistence was obvious and we emphasized the point that
she "becomes an object of public interest and care in
order to preserve the strength and vigor of the race." We
added that "though limitations upon person and contractual rights may be removed by legislation," woman
will still be in a situation1 ('where some legislation to protect her seems necessary to secure a real equality of
right." She therefore still may be "properly placed in
a class by herself, and legislation designed for her protection may be sustained, even when like legislation is
not necessary for men and could not b5e sustained." Muller v. Oregon, supra, pp. 421, 422. This ruling has been
followed in Riley v. Massachusetts, 232 U. S. 671, Miller
v. Wilson, 236 U. S. 373, and Bosley v. McLaughlin, 236
U. S. 385, with respect to hours of work, and in Radice v.
New York, supra, in relation to night work.
If liberty of contract were viewed from the standpoint
of absolute right, there would be as much to be said
against a regulation of the hours of labor of women as
against the fixing of a minimum wage. Restriction upon
hours is a restriction upon the making of contracts and
upon earning power. But the right being a qualified
one, we must apply in each case the test of reasonableness in the circumstances disclosed. Here, the special
conditions calling for the protection of women, and for
the protection of society itself, are abundantly shown.
The legislation is not less in the interest of the community as a whole than in the interest of the women
employees who are paid less than the value of their services. That lack must be made good out of the public

MOREHEAD v. N. Y. EX REL. TIPALDO.
587

STONE, J.,

dissenting.

purse. Granted that the burden of the support of
women who do not receive a living wage cannot be transferred to employers who pay the equivalent of the service they obtain, there is no reason why the burden caused
by the failure to pay that equivalent should not be
placed upon those who create it. The fact that the State
cannot secure the benefit to society of a living wage for
women employees by any enactment which bears unreasonably upon employers does not preclude the State from
seeking its objective by means entirely fair both to
employers and the women employed.
In the statute before us, no unreasonableness appears.
The end is legitimate and the means appropriate. I
think that the act should be upheld.

I am authorized to state that MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS,
and MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO join in this

MR. JUSTICE STONE
opinion.

MR. JUSTICE STONE, dissenting.

While I agree with all that the CHIEF

JUSTICE

has said,

I would not make the differences between the present
statute and that involved in the Adkins case the sole
basis of decision. I attach little importance to the fact
that the earlier statute was aimed only at a starvation
wage and that the present one does not prohibit such a
wage unless it is also less than the reasonable value of
the service. Since neither statute compels employment
at any wage, I do not assume that employers in one case,
more than in the other, would pay the minimum wage
if the service were worth less.
The vague and general pronouncement of the Fourteenth Amendment against deprivation of liberty without due process of law is a limitation of legislative power,
not a formula for its exercise. It does not purport to say
in what particular manner that power shall be exerted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
STONE, J.,

dissenting.

298 U. S.

It makes no fine-spun distinctions between methods
which the legislature may and which it may not choose
to solve a pressing problem of government. It is plain
too, that, unless the language of the amendment and
the decisions of this Court are to be ignored, the liberty
which the amendment protects is not freedom from
restraint of all law or of any law which reasonable
men may think an appropriate means for dealing with
any of those matters of public concern with which it
is the business of government to deal. There is grim
irony in speaking of the freedom of contract of those
who, because of their economic necessities, give their
services for less than is needful to kep body, and soul
together. But if this is freedom of contract no one has
ever denied that it is freedom which may be restrained,
notwithstanding the Fourteenth Amendment, by a
statute passed in the public interest.
In many cases this Court has sustained the power of
legislatures to prohibit or restrict the terms of a contract, including the price term, in order to accomplish
what the legislative body may reasonably consider a public purpose. They include cases, which have neither
been overruled nor' discredited, in which the sole basis of
regulation was the fact that circumstances, beyond the
control of the parties, had so seriously curtailed the regulative power of competition as to place buyers or sellers
af a disadvantage in the bargaining struggle, such that a
legislature might reasonably have contemplated serious
consequences to the community as a whole and have
sought to avoid them by regulation of the terms of the
contract. Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113; Brass v.
Stoeser, 153 U. S. 391; German Alliance Insurance Co. v.
Lewis, 233 U. S. 389, 409; Terminal Taxicab Co. v. District of Columbia, 241 U. S. 252; Block v. Hirsh, 256
U. S. 135; Marcus Brown Co. v. Feldman, 256 U. S. 170;
Levy Leasing Co. v. Siegel, 258 U. S. 242; Nebbia v. New

MOREHEAD v. N. Y. EX REL. TIPALDO.
587

STONE,

633

J., dissenting.

York, 291 U. S. 502; see also, Frisbie v. United States,
157 U. S. 160; Knoxville Iron Co. v. Harbison, 183 U. S.
13; McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S. 539; Mutual Loan Co.
v. Martell, 222 U. S. 225.
No one doubts that the presence in the community of
a large number of those compelled by economic necessity
to accept a wage less than is needful for subsistence is a
matter of grave public concern, the more so when, as has
been demonstrated here, it tends to produce ill health,
immorality and deterioration of the race. The fact that
at one time or another Congress and the legislatures of
seventeen states, and the legislative bodies of twenty-one
foreign countries, including Great Britain and its four
commonwealths, have found that wage regulation is an
appropriate corrective for serious social and economic
maladjustments growing out of inequality in bargaining
power, precludes, for me, any assumption that it is a
remedy beyond the bounds of reason. It is difficult to
imagine any grounds, other than our own personal economic predilections, for saying that the contract of employment is any the less an appropriate subject of legislation than are scores of others, in dealing with which
this Court has held that legislatures may curtail
individual freedom in the public interest.
If it is a subject upon which there is power to legislate
at all, the Fourteenth Amendment makes no distinction
between the methods by which legislatures may deal
with it, any more than it proscribes the regulation of one
term of a bargain more than another if it is properly
the subject of regulation. No one has yet attempted
to say upon what basis of history, principles of government, law or logic, it is within due process to regulate
the hours and conditions of labor of women, see Muller
v. Oregon, 208 U. S. 412; Riley v. Massachusetts, 232
U. S. 671, 679; Hawley v. Walker, 232 U. S. 718; Miller
v. Wilson, 236 U. S. 373; Bosley v. McLaughlin, 236 U. S.

634

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

298 U. S.

385, and of men, Bunting v. Oregon, 243 U. S. 426, and
the time and manner of payment of the wage, McLean v.
Arkansas, supra; Knoxville Iron Co. v. Harbison, supra;
Pattersonv. Bark Eudora, 190 U. S. 169; compare New
York Central R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188; Arizona
Employers' Liability Cases, 250 U. S. 400, but that regulation of the amount of the wage passes beyond the constitutional limitation; or to say upon what theory the
amount of a wage is any the less the subject of regulation in the public interest than that of insurance premiums, German Alliance Insurance Co. v. Lewis, supra,
or of the commissions of insurance brokers, O'Gorman &
Young, Inc. v. Hartford Fire Ins. Co., 282 U. S. 251, or
of'the charges of grain elevators, Munn v. Illinois, supra;
Brass v..Stoeser, supra, or of the price which the farmer
receives for his milk, or which the wage earner pays for
it, Nebbia v. New York, supra.
These considerations were developed at length in Tyson
& Bros. v. Banton, 273 U. S. 418, 447 et seq., and in Ribnik v. McBride, 277 U. S. 350, 359, et seq., and need not
be further elaborated now. It is true that the Court
rejected them there, but it later accepted and applied
them as the basis of decision in O'Gorman & Young,
Inc. v. Hartford Fire Ins. Co., supra; Nebbia v. New
Ybrk, supra; Hegeman Farms Corp. v. Baldwin, 293 U. S.
163; Borden's Farm'ProductsCo. v. Ten Eyck, 297 U. S.
251. Both precedent, and, what is more important, reason, require their acceptance now. See Burnet v. Coronado Oil & Gas Co., 285 U. S. 393, 405. In upholding
State minimum price regulation in the milk industry, in
Nebbia v. New York, supra, the Court declared, p. 537:
"So far as the requirement of due process is concerned,
and in the absence of other constitutional restriction, a
state is free to adopt whatever economic policy may
reasonably be deemed to promote public welfare, and to
enforce that policy by legislation adapted to its purpose.

MOREHEAD v. N. Y. EX EL. TIPALDO.
587

STONE,

J., dissenting.

The courts are without authority either to declare such
policy, or, when it is declared by the legislature, to override it. If the laws passed are seen to have a reasonable
relation to a proper legislative purpose, and are neither
arbitrary nor discriminatory, the requirements of due
process are satisfied, and judicial determination to that
effect renders a court functus officio."
That declaration and decision should control the present
case. They are irreconcilable with the decision and most
that was said in the Adkins case. They have left the
Court free of its restriction as a precedent, and free to
declare that the choice of the particular form of regulation by which grave economic maladjustments are to
be remedied is for legislatures and not the courts.
In the years which have intervened since the Adkins
case we have had opportunity to learn that a wage is not
always the resultant of free bargaining between employers and employees; that it may be one forced upon employees by their economic necessities and upon employers
by the most ruthless of their competitors. We have had
opportunity to pefceive more clearly that a wage insufficient to support the worker does not visit its consequences upon him alone; that it may affect profoundly
the entire economic structure of society and, in any case,
that it casts on every taxpayer, and on government
itself, the burden of solving the problems of poverty, subsistence, health and morals of large numbers in the community. Because of their nature and extent these are
public problems. A generation ago they were for the
individual to solve; today they are the burden of the
nation. I can perceive no more objection, on constitutional grounds, to their solution by requiring an industry
to bear the subsistence cost of the labor which it employs,
than to the imposition upon it of the cost of its industrial
accidents. See New York Central R. Co. v. White,
supra; Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S.
219.

636

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
SToNE, J., dissenting.

298 U. S.

It is not for the courts to resolve doubts whether the
remedy by wage regulation is as efficacious as many believe, or is better than some other, or is better even than
the blind operation of uncontrolled economic forces. The
legislature must be free to choose unless government is to
be rendered impotent. The Fourteenth Amendment has
no more embedded in the Constitution our preference
for some particular set of economic beliefs than it has
adopted, in the name of liberty, the system of theology
which we may happen to approve.
I know of no rule or practice by which the arguments
advanced in support of an application for certiorari restrict our choice between conflicting precedents in deciding a question of constitutional law which the petition, if
granted, requires us to answer. Here the question which
the petition specifically presents is whether the New
York statute contravenes the Fourteenth Amendment.
In addition, the petition assigns as a reason for granting
it that "the construction and application of the Constitution of the United States and a prior decision" of this
Court "are necessarily involved," and again, that "the
circumstances prevailing under which the New York law
was enacted call for a reconsideration of the Adkins case
in the light of the New York act and conditions aimed
to be remedied thereby." Unless we are now to construe
and apply the Fourteenth Amendment without regard
to our decisions since the Adkins case, we could not
rightly avoid its reconsideration even if it were not asked.
We should follow our decision in the Nebbia case and
leave the selection and the method of the solution of
the problems to which the statute is addressed where it
seems to me the Constitution has left them, to the legislative branch of the government. The judgment should
be reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS and MR. JUSTICE CARDozo

in this opinion.

join

