OCTOBER TERM, 1935.

426

298 U. S.

Syllabus.

In No. 23 the decree is affirmed. In No. 31 the decree
is reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
So ordered.
The CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the consideration or
decision of these cases.
ACKER ET AL. v. UNITED STATES

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 655.

Argued April 3, 6, 1936.-Decided May 18, 1936.

1. In ascertaining a reasonable unit cost, as the basis for a uniform
rate for Market Agencies, under the Packers & Stockyards Act,
the Secretary of Agriculture was not bound to adopt any one
agency's costs or an average of the costs of all of them; to do so
would be to leave out of consideration relative size, relative volume,
and relative efficiency of individual agencies. P. 429.
2. In fixing such rates, the Secretary was not bound to adopt as his
allowance for salesmen's salaries an average of salaries theretofore
paid; and he was justified in refusing to assign, as part of the selling cost, fictitious salaries to the proprietors of such agencies whose
actual recompense for their activities is the profit from their own
business. P. 429.
3. In the fixing of such rates the Secretary may determine from the
evidence what is a fair and adequate allowance for the cost of
getting and maintaining business; this is not purely a question
for the managerial judgment of the market agencies. P. 430.
4. The objections that the Secretary arbitrarily used a single year
as the test period and arbitrarily refused a rehearing, are not
sustained. P. 431.
5. Under ยง 316 of the Packers & Stockyards Act, the District Court
sits not to afford a trial de novo but to review the administrative
action. Where the issue before the Secretary was the reasonableness of the charges of market agencies for their personal services,
no question of confiscation being involved, and where adequate
notice and hearings were afforded, and the evidence carefully

ACKER v. UNITED STATES.
426

Opinion of the Court.

weighed by him, as demonstrated by voluminous and detailed findings, and the facts and considerations forming the basis of his
ultimate conclusions were candidly exposed in his decision,-held
that the function of the court was confined to the questions raised
upon the record made before the Secretary. P. 433.
12 F. Supp. 776, affirmed.

District
Court dismissing a bill to set aside orders of the Secretary of Agriculture fixing uniform rates for Market
Agencies under the Packers & Stockyards Act.
APPEAL from a decree of the three-judge

Mr. George I. Haight, with whom Messrs. John S. Boyd
and M. K. Hobbs were on the brief, for appellants.
Assistant Attorney General Dickinson, with whom
Solicitor General Reed and Messrs. Wendell Berge and
G. N. Dagger were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE ROBL..TS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
September 23, 1932, the Secretary of Agriculture, acting under the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921,1 ordered
an inquiry and gave notice of a hearing to determine the
reasonableness of rates charged by market agencies doing business at the Union Stockyards in Chicago. After
protracted hearings and argument, he made findings of
fact, announced his conclusion that the existing rates
were unreasonable, and fixed new maximum rates. The
appellants, who conduct market agencies, petitioned for
rehearing. This the Secretary" denied but by a supplemental order he increased some rates. An amended petition for rehearing was dismissed and the appellants then
filed their bill in the district court seeking an injunction
against enforcement of the original and supplemental
orders. The case was heard by three judges who granted
an interlocutory injunction. At final hearing the appel142

Stat. 159; U. S. C., Tit. 7, Chap. 9.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

lants offered in evidence the record of the proceedings
before the Secretary and also proffered additional testimony which was received over the appellees' objection
and subject to their exception. The court dismissed the
bill, holding that the Secretary's findings were supported
by substantial evidence. In the light of the evidence
before him, and that adduced at the trial, the court
adopted the Secretary's findings as its own; adjudged
the prescribed rates reasonable, and concluded the orders
entered were not arbitrary and did not operate so as to
take the agencies' property without due process of law.
The appellants contended in the court below, and here
insist, that the Secretary failed to apply the principles for
ascertaining reasonable rates approved by this court in
Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United States, 280 U. S.420;
improperly invaded the field of management in determining reasonable unit costs; used an improper test period
for ascertaining costs; disregarded the evidence in fixing
an allowance for salesmanship costs and expense of getting and maintaining business, and arbitrarily denied the
petitions for rehearing. These errors, so they claim, resulted in the fixing of unreasonable and confiscatory
rates.
The services performed by commission merchants-in
the Chicago yards are substantially the same as those
described in the opinion in Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v.
United States, supra, touching the market agencies at the
Omaha stockyards. Little capital is invested; the business is the rendering of personal services for which
charges are made according to a uniform schedule. In
ascertaining whether the rates are reasonable the prime
factor is the agencies' costs, of which the most important
are salesmen's compensation and the expense of getting
and maintaining business. The old schedule of rates, like
that prescribed for the Omaha yards, and considered in
Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United States, supra, was

ACKER v. UNITED STATES.
426

Opinion of the Court.

based upon carload lots. In the present case the Secretary determined that a more accurate and reasonable
schedule could be prepared on the basis of the consignment rather than that of the carload. In order to ascertain unit costs it was necessary for him to break down
the total costs into three principal items,-salaries, other
expenses, and interest. These in turn were subdivided
thus: salaries into selling and buying, yarding, business
getting and maintaining, office and administrative; other
expenses into yarding, office, business getting and maintaining, administrative and general, and risk. Interest
was calculated on the value of fixed assets, inventory of
supplies, and cash working capital equivalent to one
month's expense allowance. Costs were thus determined
for each sort of livestock handled. In arriving at the rate
an allowance was made for management and uninsurable
risks; that is, for profit. The Secretary stated that he
adopted the same principles for determining rates as were
approved in the Tagg Bros. case. The complaints against
the rates are not directed to these principles but to their
application in the present case. We think they are without merit.
1. In general, the Secretary's findings are challenged
as not giving proper weight to the past experience of the
market agencies. As the findings demonstrate, full consideration was given to the costs incurred, but in ascertaining a reasonable unit cost as the basis of a uniform
rate the Secretary was not bound to, and indeed he could
not, adopt any one agency's costs or an average of the
costs of all of them; to do so would be to leave out of
consideration relative size, relative volume, and relative
efficiency of individual agencies.
2. The attack upon the allowance for salesmen's salaries
is bottomed on the fact that the Secretary refused to
adopt an average of salaries heretofore paid. He was
not required so to do. What is a typical salesman's

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

performance, and a fair recompense for it, is a matter
of judgmct based upon all the facts. That the Secretary considered and weighed the evidence is clearly shown
by his findings; that he exercised an informed judgment
upon it cannot successfully be denied.
Many proprietors of agencies take part in the activities of buying, selling, yarding, etc. As they own the

enterprise they receive no salaries. Their recompense is
the profit realized from the business. What each of them
thus earned during the test period was disclosed at the
hearing. The appellants insisted that the Secretary
should in his cost computations fix a salary allowance for
such owners without reference to their actual earnings.
In order to furnish a basis for a finding in this behalf
they procured independent persons, said to have knowledge of the subject, to make appraisals of the value of
the services of these owners and introduced the appraisals
in evidence. They insist that because the Secretary in
arriving at selling costs ignored these hypothetical sal-

aries his action was arbitrary and unreasonable. We
cannot so hold. We think it evident that he was justified in considering conditions as he found them and refusing to load the business with a cost having no relation
to actualities.
3. With respect to the cost of getting and maintaining
business, the Secretary had before him a complete analysis of the actual expenditures made during an adequate test period. He had ample evidence pro and con
as to the necessity and wisdom of these expenditures. It
appears that he weighed the proofs, found that in certain
respects the expenditures had been extravagant and
wasteful, and, in the exercise of judgment, arrived at a
cost he considered fair and adequate. The contention is
that the amount to be expended for ,these purposes is
purely a question of managerial judgment. But this
overlooks the consideration that the charge is for a public

ACKER v. UNITED STATES.
426

Opinion of the Court.

service, and regulation cannot be frustrated by a requirement that the rate be made to compensate extravagant
or unnecessary costs for these or any purposes. We are
not persuaded that the conclusions as to proper allowances on this head were without substantial support in
the record.
4. It is charged that the Secretary erred in using a
single year, 1932, as a test period. For detailed figures
he used only that year, but he had before him a cost
analysis for 1931, a survey of the economic history of
the Chicago market and the factors which have influenced it since its establishment in 1865, a record of the
annual receipts for each year from 1865 to 1932, and a
tabulation of the monthly receipts for the years 1923 to
1932, inclusive. In addition he had data as to the relation of the volume of receipts at this market between
1920 and 1932, inclusive, to the total receipts of all the
important livestock markets in the country; the ratios
of rail and truck receipts for the years 1923 to 1932, inclusive, and a record of seasonal variations in rail and
truck receipts for 1932. He had studies showing distribution of receipts amongst the different classes of animals
in each year from 1923 to 1932, inclusive. His findings
show that he gave consideration to changing economic
conditions affecting the Chicago market. They show
that he used 1932 as a test period because it was favorable to the appellants, since the receipts at Chicago in
that year were lower than those for any of the preceding
ten years, and therefore unit costs calculated on the basis
of receipts in that year would naturally tend to be higher
than those of preceding years. In the light of the proofs
and the findings, we are unable to find anything arbitrary
or unreasonable in the selection of the data on which to
base a judgment.
5. The appellants assert the Secretary acted arbitrarily in refusing to rehear the case. Hearirigs began

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

May 15 and ended November 7, 1933. December 13 the
matter was argued. January 8, 1934, the original order
was entered prescribing maximum rates effective February 7, 1934. On the day last mentioned the appellants
presented a petition for rehearing which is not in the
record. From the summary of its contents found in the
bill it appears that petitioners claimed the reduction in
revenues consequent upon the new rates made it impossible for them to pay necessary operating expenses
which had been increased by the National Recovery Act
and the Agricultural Adjustment Act; that costs should
have been calculated by using the draft rather than the
consignment as a basis; that the rates were inconsistent
with the level of costs and the trend of costs during
1933; and that the petitioners desired to prove the efficiency of their methods of handling animals during 1933.
Data in support of the petition were tendered and received. The Secretary reconsidered his prior decision,
refused a rehearing, and ordered certain increases in the
rates. Within a month appellants presented an amended
pe'tition for rehearing which is not in the record but is
sketched in the bill of complaint. The reasons advanced
in support of the application are alleged to have been:
a net reduction of twenty-five per cent. of gross income as
compared with 1933 would result from the new schedule;
such a reduction would render petitioners' income insufficient to pay the costs of doing business; the schedules promulgated were based on findings for the years
1931 and 1932, whereas, during 1933 and 1934, profound
changes occurred which adversely affected the petitioners' business; the federal legislation of 1933 increased
petitioners' expenses. It thus appears that although the
appellants had opportunity until one month prior to
the making of the order to produce any evidence as to
conditions prevailing during 1933, and to call attention to
any conclusions to be drawn therefrom, they delayed

ACKER v. UNITED STATES.
426

Opinion of the Court.

doing so until shortly after the order was issued. The
delay in presenting proofs concerning these matters is
unexplained.2
The amended petition was filed about three months
after the original order issued. It is inconceivable that
economic conditions had so altered in this brief period as
to demonstrate that the new schedule of rates, if just
when promulgated, had become unjust and oppressive.
The schedule should have been given a trial and any
alteration or modification should have been asked in
the light of more extensive experience. We are unable
to find anything arbitrary or unreasonable in the denial
of the petitions.
6. The appellants insist that they were entitled to a
trial de novo on the issue of confiscation and on the issue
of the denial of the petitions for rehearing.
A majority of the District Court said:
"Having considered the new evidence offered for the
first time in this court, and all the evidence offered before
the Secretary, and having concluded, as we have, that
there is no. showing of confiscation, we find it unnecessary to determine whether the evidence offered for the
first time in this court was admissible. Tagg Bros. &
Moorhead v. United States, 280 U. S. 420."
One of the judges, in a separate opinion, stated:
"I do not concur in the findings of this court which
adopt in toto the findings of fact made by the Secretary
of Agriculture. Some of them, particularly those relating
to salesmanship costs and allowances for business getting
and maintaining expenses are, in my opinion, against
the weight of evidence. However, I am not prepared to
say that the findings were made without any evidence to
support them. I join, therefore, in the entry of the
decree dismissing the bill."
"Compare United States v. Northern Pacific Ry. Co., 288 U. S. 490.
65773*-36-28

434

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

It is to be noted that in spite of the allegations of the
bill the case does not involve any question of confiscation.
The appellants employ little physical property in their
business and r'o complaint is made as to the allowance of
interest on such as they do employ. They render a personal service and the issue before the Secretary was
whether the uniform schedule of rates for that service was
or was not reasonable. On this issue he was bound to
afford the appellants due process. In fact he gave them
adequate notice and accorded them a full hearing. He
-carefully weighed the evidence, as demonstrated by voluminous and detailed findings; he exposed with candor
the facts and considerations forming the basis of his ultimate conclusions. The appellants had opportunity for a
full presentation of their case. Under ยง 316 of the Packers and Stockyards Act the district court sits not to afford
a trial de novo but to review the administrative action.
Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United States, supra, p. 443.
No reason appears why the appellants could not be afforded due process of law by a review of any questions
they deemed material upon the record as made in the administrative proceeding, or why the delay, expense and
burden of a new trial should be imposed simply because
they demanded it. The issue before the Secretary was
not confiscation but the reasonableness of a charge for
personal service. No new or different issue could have
been presented upon a trial de novo. We think the court
correctly held that its function was the consideration of
questions raised upon the record made before the Secretary.
Little need be said concerning the claim that a trial
de novo should have been affcrded the appellants on the
question of tlieir right to a rehearing. As has been said,
the bill of complaint summarizes Lie petition and
amended petition for rehearing and asserts that the Secretary arbitrarily refused to grant them. No evidence in

UNITED STATES v. CORRICK.
Syllabus.

426

support of this allegation was tendered in the District
Court. It is idle to discuss the right of the appellants to
make a showing in this behalf in the District Court when
in fact none was made or attempted and the court was
left, as we are, with no light on the subject save what is
afforded by the record before the Secretary and the averments of the complaint.
The decree is
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES ET AL. V. CORRICK ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 656.

Argued April 6, 1936.-Decided May 18, 1936.

1. On appeal from the granting or refusal of an interlocutory injunction, inquiry is limited to the question whether the court
abused its discretion. P. 437.
2. A bill by operators of Market Agencies to enjoin the Secretary
of Agriculture from instituting prosecutions for violations of an
order fixing their rates under the Packers & Stockyards Act,
the ultimate purpose of the suit being to secure a decree upholding
a rate schedule posted by the plaintiffs, is not a bill to set aside
or suspend the order, within the jurisdiction of the District Court.
P. 438.
3. When the Secretary of Agriculture, pursuant to ยง 310 of the
Packers & Stockyards Act, orders specified rates thereafter to
be charged by Market Agencies, these become the only lawful rates
and so remain until the further order of the Secretary. P. 439.
4. The Secretary of Agriculture, after inquiry and full hearing,
fixed rates thereafter to be charged by the Market Agencies, and
these had not been set aside or enjoined in any appropriate judicial proceeding or been altered by subsequent order of the Secretary. Held that the District Court was without power to enjoin
the prosecution of the operators of the Agencies for charging rates
other than those set by the Secretary. P. 440.
5. Lack of jurisdiction in a federal court over the subject matter
of the litigation cannot be waived by the parties. The court
should decline to proceed with the cause. P. 440.

