OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

298 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. KNOTT, STATE
TREASURER, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF FLORIDA.

No. 643. Argued March 30, 31, 1936.-Decided May 25, 1936.
1. A surety company which by court order upon its own petition had
been placed in the hands of a statutory liquidator in the State of
its incorporation, was "insolvent" within the meaning of R. S.,

§ 3466, giving priority to debts due to the United States whenever
a person so indebted is insolvent. P. 547.
2. U. S. Code, Title 6, §§ 1-11, prescribing the conditions under
which a surety company may write certain surety bonds in favor
of the United States, was not intended to exclude from the operation of R. S., § 3466, liabilities arising upon such bonds. P. 547.
3. A claim of the United States upon judgments recovered against
a surety company on estreated bail bonds held entitled to priority
under R. S., § 3466. P. 548.
4. This Court accepts as conclusive a decision of the state supreme
court construing a statute of the State. P. 548..
5. An inchoate lien is not enough to defeat the priority of the
United States under R. S., § 3466. P. 549.
6. The interest of persons who may become entitled to the proceeds of a deposit made with the State Treasurer pursuant to
Compiled General Laws of Florida, §§ 6302, 6303, either as unsatisfied judgment creditors, or as Florida creditors at the time
when insolvency supervenes, lacks the characteristics of a specific
perfected lien which alone would bar the priority of the United
States. Pp. 550-551.
7. The judgment of the state court denying priority prejudiced the
rights of the United States. P. 551.
8. The judgment of the state supreme court here under review,
denying the claim of the United States to priority, was a final
judgment under the rules governing the jurisdiction of this Court.
That the order of the lower court from which appeal was taken
to the supreme court of the State may not, under the state practice, have been a final order, is here immaterial. P. 551.
9. The Florida courts had jurisdiction to award priority to the claim
of the United States out of the proceeds of the deposif, even
though the general assets were being liquidated in New Jersey.
P. 552.
120 Fla. 580; 163 So. 64, reversed.

UNITED STATES v. KNOTT.
544

Opinion of the Court.

CERTIORARI, 297 U. S. 700, to review a judgment which
denied the United States a claim of priority under R. S.,
§ 3466. The state supreme court had affirmed, with
some modification, an order of the trial court. Sub nom.
Kelly v. Knott.
Mr. Alger Hiss, with whom Solicitor General Reed,
Assistant Attorney General Morris, and Messrs. Paul A.
Sweeney and Hadley W. Libbey were on the brief, for the
United States.
Mr. C. L. Waller, with whom Mr. Claude Pepper was
on the brief, for D. M. Lowry, Receiver, respondent.
Mr. H. E. Carter,Assistant Attorney General of Florida, with whom Mr. Cary D. Landis, Attorney General,
was on the -brief, for W. V. Knott, State Treasurer,
respondent.
Mr. Herbert U. Feibelman, with whom Mr. Saul
Nemser was on the brief, for Carl K. Withers, Commissioner of Banking and Insurance of New Jersey,
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The New Jersey Fidelity and Plate Glass Insurance
Company is a surety company organized under the laws
of that State. In 1932, it became insolvent; was upon its
petition placed by a New Jersey court for liquidation in
the hands of Kelly, the New Jersey Commissioner of
Banking and Insurance; and he sought to take possession
of its assets wherever situated. In 1930, the company had
.deposited securities of the face value of $75,000 with the
State Treasurer of Florida in order to qualify there pursuant to §§ 6302 and 6303 of Florida Compiled General
Laws. It entered into many surety obligations in Florida
65773.-36--85

'

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

prior to its insolvency; but no unsatisfied judgment
against it was outstanding there when the New Jersey
liquidation proceeding was begun.
Kelly brought suit in Florida against State Treasurer Knott to restrain disposition of the deposited
securities except upon order of that court. After the
institution of his suit, an amendment to § 6303 made
by Chapter 16248 of the Florida Laws, 1933, provided
that in case the assets of a surety company should
be placed in liquidation in the state of its incorporation, a Florida court "shall have jurisdiction, upon bill
filed by any party in interest, to take charge of the securities so deposited with the State Treasurer" and "distribute the proceeds of the sale of said securities proportionally among all of the Florida creditors who may make
proof of their claims," "the surplus, if any, to be disposed
of by proper order of such court." Thereupon, a Florida
creditor brought suit under the amendment; that suit was
consolidated with the one which Kelly had instituted;
and a receiver was appointed who took possession of the
securities and sold them.
In the receivership proceeding the United States filed,
and under Revised Statutes 3466 claimed priority for,
a debt of $14,075, that sum being the aggregate of twenty
judgments which it recovered against the company in
Florida on estreated appearance, or bail, bonds given
there. The Florida officials insisted that the claim of the
United States must be postponed to those of Florida
creditors; the New Jersey commissioner, that priority can
be accorded the United States, in any event, only in the
domiciliary proceeding. The trial court denied it priority; and directed that debts due Florida, its political
subdivisions, citizens or residents, be paid. The decree
left undetermined whether the United States was entitled
to receive in Florida payment from the residue after satisfaction of such Florida debts, or whether the residue

UNITED STATES v. KNOTT.
544

Opinion of the Court.

should be transmitted to the domiciliary liquidator. The
United States appealed on the ground that it has been
denied priority; the New Jersey commissioner on the
ground that the domiciliary liquidator was entitled to
the residue remaining after satisfying the claims of creditors reduced to judgment prior to the institution of the
proceedings in New Jersey. The order of the trial court
was affirmed by the Supreme Court, with some modification. Kelly v. Knott, 120 Fla. 580; 163 So. 64. We
granted certiorari, because of the importance of the
question involved.
First. Revised Statutes, § 3466, provides that "whenever any person indebted to the United States is insolvent" "the debts due to the United States shall be first
satisfied." It is clear that, within the meaning of the
section, the company had become insolvent, Bramwell v.
United States Fidelity & Guaranty Co., 269 U. S. 483,
488-490, and that, ordinarily, debts due on judgments
recovered by the United States are "debts due to the
United States." Price v. United States, 269 U. S. 492,
499-500. Compare Beaston v. Farmers' Bank, 12 Pet.
102, 134; Pierce v. United States, 255 U. S. 398, 401-402.
See also United States v. Mack, 295 U. S. 480. The
Florida officials contend that, since the priority accorded
the United States depends entirely upon the statutory
provision and is not an attribute of sovereignty, United
States v. State Bank, 6 Pet. 29, Congress may deny to
the Government the right of priority; and that, by prescribing elsewhere the conditions under which a surety
company may write certain surety bonds in favor of the
United States, U. S. C., Tit. 6, §§ 1-11, it has indicated
its intention to exclude the liabilities here involved from
the operation of § 3466. We do not construe the legislation concerning surety bonds as having such effect. The
cases relied upon dealt with legislation of a different character. Davis v. Pringle, 268 U. S. 315; Mellon v. Michi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

gan Trust Co., 271 U. S. 236; United States v. Guaranty
Trust Co., 280 U. S. 478. We are of opinion that the
claim presented is, in its nature, one entitled to priority.
Second. The main question for decision is whether the
Florida statute divested the company's title to the deposited securities or created a perfected lien thereon, so
as to give the Florida creditors precedence over the
United States.
Section 6302 of the Florida Laws, which required the
deposit declares:
"And whenever such company ceases to do business
in this State, and has settled up all claims against it,
as hereinafter provided, and has been released from all
the bonds upon which they have been taken as sureties
said bonds [securities] shall be delivered up to the proper
party on presentation of the Treasurer's receipt for said
bonds."
Section 6303, as amended, provides:
"Whenever a final judgment has been rendered against
any surety company on a fidelity, appearance, supersedeas
or surety bond, the surety on said bond shall pay the
same within thirty days. Upon notice of failure to pay
the amount due under said bond within said time, the
State Treasurer shall retain the bonds or securities deposited with him by said surety company . . . to
cover said judgment and costs, subject to the order of
the court trying any suit that may be brought upon said
bond . . . ." [Then follows the amendment of 1933
authorizing institution of the suit.]
The trial court found that, by the deposit, the securities had been segregated and set apart out of the general assets of the company prior to the accrual of any
liens of, or obligations to, the United States. We accept
that finding as conclusive of the facts. The Supreme
Court declared that the securities deposited by the company with the State Treasurer constituted "a trust fund

UNITED STATES v. KNOTT.
544

Opinion of the Court.

to be held by him for the protection and benefit of all
Florida claimants entitled to seek satisfaction thereout,
regardless of the continued solvency of the depositing
corporation or its voluntary cessation of business in the
State of Florida"; and that, in enacting the legislation
requiring such deposit, Florida did so with the intention
of protecting those whom it had-the power and duty to
protect. It held that the deposit with the State Treasurer constituted a trust fund for the benefit of Florida,
its political subdivisions, citizens and residenits; that they
were entitled to be paid first out of it; and that the
United States was not a beneficiary of such trust fund.
Insofar as the decision of the Supreme Court is a construction of the statute of the State, we accept it as
conclusive.
Third. The question for our decision is the legal effect
upon the asserted federal right of the statute so construed. As was said in Thelusson v. Smith, 2 Wheat. 396,
426: "The United States are to be first satisfied; but
then, it must be out of the debtor's estate. If, therefore,
before the right of preference has accrued to the United
States, the debtor has made a bona fide conveyance of
his estate to a third person, or has mortgaged the same
to secure a debt, or if his property has been seized under
a fi. fa., the property is divested out of the debtor, and
cannot be made liable to the United States." See also
Beaston v. Farmers' Bank of Delaware, 12 Pet. 102, 135136. The deposit of the securities rendered them subject to process within the State; and it may be assumed
that the contemplated beneficiaries would have acquired
thereby precedence over those claiming under a later voluntary assignment by the company or any later levy.
But it is settled that an inchoate lien is not enough to
defeat the priority. United States v. Oklahoma, 261
U. S.253; Spokane County v. United States, 279 U. S.
80; New York v. Maclay, 288 U. S.290. Unless the law

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

of Florida effected, at least as early as the date of insolvency, either a transfer of title from the company, or
a specific perfected lien in favor of the Florida creditors,
the United States is entitled to priority.
The Supreme Court of Florida holds, in the case at bar,
that the amendment, which was not enacted until after
the institution of the liquidation proceeding in New Jersey, did not chavige substantive rights. And in State v.
Knott, 114 Florida 95, 99; 153 So. 606, also decided after
enactment of the amendment, the court describes thus
the effect of a deposit:
"The correct interpretation of the statute is that the
securities in the hands of the State Treasurer so held in
trust by him for the account of the depositing company,
are merely segregated assets of the surety company which,
while capable of being specifically applied to the satisfaction of such final judgments against the surety company on fidelity and surety bonds as shall remain unpaid
for thirty days, do not-become impressed with the judgment lien until after the notice pursuant to which they
may be expressly subjected thereto by the order of the
court rendering a judgment on a bond executed by the
depositing surety company."
Qbviously, the deposit did not divest the company's
title to the securities. No one was appointed trustee;
and, at the time of the deposit, there was no ascertainable
beneficiary. Who would share in the proceeds of the
securities could not be known until they were exhausted
in satisfaction of judgments, or until the entry of the
decree of distribution in a suit authorized by the 1933
amendment. While in the case at bar the Supreme Court
declared that the deposit created a "trust fund," the term
appears to have been used to connote an inchoate general
lien for the benefit of those persons who may become entitled to be paid from the proceeds, either as unsatisfied
judgment creditors, or as* Florida creditors at the time

UNITED STATES v. KNOTT.
544

Opinion of the Court.

when insolvency supervenes. Such an interest lacks the
characteristics of a specific perfected lien which alone
bars the priority of the United States.
Fourth. The Florida officials construe the opinion of
its Supreme Court as holding that the United States
is entitled to be paid in this proceeding from the surplus
remaining after payment of the Florida creditors. They
urge that from the report of the receiver it appears that
such surplus will be adequate to satisfy the claim of the
United States; they contend that, hence, the United
States is not adversely affected by the judgment under
review; and they ask that the judgment be affirmed, or
the certiorari be dismissed, on this ground. But no order
has been entered in either of the Florida courts directing
payment of the surplus to the United States; and, moreover, it is not clear that the surplus, if so applied, would
satisfy its claim. As the debt due the United States remains unpaid, the judgment denying it priority prejudices its right.
Fifth. Finally, the Florida officials contend that this
Court lacks jurisdiction, because the order of the trial
court (that of May 28, 1934) which gave the local creditors priority over the United States, constituted the final
order in the case and disposed of the right which the
United States is here asserting; that this order was not
appealed from; and that the later order of the trial
court (that of October 27, 1934) from which an appeal
was taken to the Supreme Court of Florida, was not a
final order. We have no occasion to enquire into these
matters which are of local concern. The judgment here
under review is that of the Supreme Court. It denied
to the United States the priority claimed under § 3466.
That denial is a final judgment under the rules governing our jurisdiction. Ex parte Tiffany, 252 U. S. 32, 36.
Sixth. The New Jersey commissioner contends that the
proceeds of the securities remaining after satisfying the

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

claims of the local creditors must be transmitted to New
Jersey; and that the Florija courts are without jurisdiction to award priority to the United States. It is true
that the priority statute is not applicable unless insolvency has been manifested by some proceeding equivalent
to an assignment of all of the debtor's property, United
States v. Oklahoma, 261 U. S. 253, 262; United States v.
Hooe, 3 Cranch 73, 91. The priority could not have been
asserted in Florida or elsewhere, if there had been no such
assignment. But this requirement of the statute was
satisfied by the liquidation suit in New Jersey. United
States v. Butterworth-JudsonCorp., 269 U. S. 504. The
United States properly intervened in Florida in order to
prevent the assets there from being applied in payment
of local claims believed to be subordinate to its own. No
rule of law precludes it from asserting its priority by an
appropriate proceeding in any jurisdiction in which
property of the insolvent is being administered. The
Florida court did not lack power to entertain its application; and the fact that the claim originated in Florida
and was reduced to judgment there, made it appropriate
that the United States should seek there satisfaction from
funds deposited to assure payment of judgments entered
on surety bonds given there by the company. No good
reason has been suggested why the United States should
be denied the right to secure in this proceeding payment
of -its debt.
Reversed.

