MORF v. BINGAMAN.
Syllabus.

MORF v. BINGAMAN, COMMISSIONER OF REVENUE FOR NEW MEXICO.*
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW MEXICO.

No. 772.

Argued April 30, May 1, 1936.-Decided May 18, 1936.

1. A state law (New Mexico Laws, 1935, c. 56) exacting a fee for
the privilege of transporting motor vehicles, on their own wheels,
over the highways of the State for purpose of sale--held consistent
with the commerce clause of the Constitution and the due process
and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment.
P. 410.
So held of its application to a distinct business of moving such
cars interstate, for purposes of sale, in caravans or processions,
usually in units of two coupled together, each unit being opcrated from the foremost of the two cars composing it, by a
single driver. The drivers, because of their casual employment,
had little interest in the business and were likely to be careless.
The coupled cars caused unusual damage to the roads by skidding.
For this and other reasons the caravans increased the inconvenece and hazards of traffic And the burden and expense of
state policing.
2. As the tax is not on the use of the highways but on the privilege
of using them, without specific limitation as to mileage, the levy
of a flat fee not shown to be unreasonable in amount, rather than
of a fee based on mileage, is not a forbidden burden on interstate
commerce. P. 412.
3. It is not important that apart of the fees collected is not devoted
directly to highway maintenance, the cost of which the State
pays in part from the proceeds of a general property tax. Id.
4. If a state taxing provision, of whatever form its words, results
in the application of the tax to a class which may be separately
taxed without a denial of equal protection, those within the taxed
class may not complain because the class might have been more
aptly defined by the statute or -because others, not of that class,
are taxed improperly. P. 412.
* Together with No. 898, U. S. Fidelity & Guaranty Co. v.
Bingaman, Commissioner of Revenue for New Mexico. Appeal from
the District Court of the United States for the District of New
Mexico.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

5. The validity of the above-mentioned tax as applied to cars driven
for purposes of sale, but driven singly and not in caravans, is
not involved in this case. P. 413.
6. The fee provisions of c. 56, New Mexico Laws, 1935, were not
repealed by c. 136 of the same session. P. 414.
12 F. Supp. 765, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the three-judge District Court
dismissing a bill by which a dealer in automobiles sought
to enjoin the State Commissioner of Revenue from collecting a tax. Separate appeals were taken by the plaintiff and the surety on his injunction bond.

Messrs. Ralph K. Pierson and George E. Remley, with
whom Mr. Harry S. Bowman was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Quincy D. Adams, Assistant Attorney General of
New Mexico, with whom Mr. Frank H. Patton,Attorney
General, and Mr. Amos M. Mathews were on the brief,
for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case is here on appeal, Judicial Code, § 238, from
a decree of the district court for New Mexico, three
judges sitting, 12 F. Supp. 755, dismissing the bill of
complaint by which appellant sought to enjoin appellee,
the state Commissioner of Revenue, from enforcing the
provisions of a state law exacting a permit fee for the
privilege of transporting motor vehicles over the highways of the state for purpose of sale.
The statute assailed, Chapter 56 of the New Mexico
Session Laws of 1935, denies to all persons the use of the
highways of the state for the transportation of any motor
vehicle, on its own wheels, for the purpose of selling it
or offering it for sale within or without the state, unless
the vehicle is (1) licensed by the state, or is (2) owned
by a licensed automobile dealer and operated under a

MORF v. BINGAMAN.
407

Opinion of the Court.

dealer's license, or is (3) operated under a special permit
issued by the state Commissioner of Revenue for its
transportation. For such a permit the statute levies a
fee of $7.50 if the vehicle is transported by its own power,
and a fee of $5.00 if it is towed or drawn by another
vehicle.
A later act, Chapter 136 of New Mexico Session Laws
of 1935, provides for establishing registration stations or
"ports of entry," on the main highways of the state, at
which permits are to be issued and fees collected. It provides that no vehicle for which a permit is required shall
receive a permit or be allowed to proceed until inspected
and found to be "in safe and roadworthy condition, properly equipped with all lights, brakes and other appliances" required by state law.
Appellant, a resident and citizen of California, is engaged in the business of purchasing new and used automobiles in eastern and southern states of the United
States, and transporting them, on their own wheels, over
state highways to California, where he offers them for
sale. He customarily transports such cars over the highways of New Mexico for a distance of about one hundred
and sixty-six miles, in processions, or caravans.
Chapter 56 is challenged here, as it was below, as imposing an unconstitutional burden on interstate commerce, and as infringing the due process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. Appellant also urges that the taxing provisions of this Act,
enacted February 21, 1935, were repealed by the passage,
a week later, of the "Ports of Entry Act," Chapter 136
of the Session Laws of 1935. The trial court held that
the earlier Act had not been repealed, and construed it
as exacting the permit fee for the privilege of using the
state highways, and as not exempting, from the fee, cars
operated under a dealers' license when transported for
sale. It thought that the statute is aimed at the consid-

410

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

erable business in the state, as shown by the record, of
transporting automobiles, usually in caravans, over state
highways for sale; that such transportation constitutes
a distinct class of automobile traffic, which causes increased wear and tear of the highways and interferes with
their safe and convenient use by others; that these circumstances justify a separate classification of the traffic
for the purpose of exercising police control over it and
fixing a fee or tax for the privilege of transporting automobiles over the highways in such traffic. The court
accordingly held that the statute infringes no constitutional limitation on state power.
1. We see no reason, and none is suggested, for not
accepting the construction of the statute adopted by the
trial court. The statute applies alike to all automobiles
transported for sale, whether moving intrastate or interstate. Unlike the general tax in Inierstate Transit, Inc.
v. Lindsey, 283 U. S. 183, the levy of which was unrelated
to the use of the highways, grant of the privilege of
their use is by the present statute made conditional upon
payment of the fee. The manner of its collection, not
unlike that of a toll for the privilege of entering and
using the highways, definitely identifies it as a charge
for the privilege. It is not shown to exceed a reasonable
charge for the privilege and for defraying the cost of
police regulation of the traffic involved, such as a state
may impose, if non-discriminatory, on automobiles moving over its highways interstate. Hendrick v. Maryland,
235 U. S. 610; Kane v. New Jersey, 242 U. S. 160; Clark
v. Poor, 274 U. S. 554; Interstate Transit, Inc. v. Lindsey,
283 U. S., 183; Aero Mayflower Transit Co. v. Georgia
Public Service Commn., 295 U. S. 285.
The facts, as stipulated, establish that the transportation of automobiles across the state in caravans, for purpose of sale, is a distinct class of business, of considerable
magnitude. Large numbers of such cars move over the

MORF v. BINGAMAN.
407

Opinion of the Court.

highways in caravans or processions. Seventy-five to
eighty per cent of the cars in appellant's caravans are
Each
in units of two, coupled together by tow bars.
unit is in charge of a single driver, who operates the
forward car and thus controls the movement of both
cars by the use of the mechanism and brakes of one.
Appellant's drivers, except two or three regularly employed, are casually engaged. They usually serve without pay and bear their own expenses in order to secure
transportation to the point of destination, although a
few receive very small remuneration and expenses. The
legislature may readily have concluded, as did the trial
court, that the drivers have little interest in the business
or the vehicles they drive and less regard than drivers of
state licensed cars for the safety and convenience of
others using the highways. The evidence supports the
inference that cars thus coupled and controlled frequently skid, especially on curves, causing more than
the usual wear and tear on the road; that this and other
increased difficulties in the operation of the coupled cars,
and the length of the caravans, increase the inconvenience and hazard to passing traffic. Car trouble to
any one car sometimes results in stalling the entire caravan. The state has found it expedient to make special
provisions for the inspection and policing of caravans
moving in this traffic.
There is ample support for a legislative determination
that the peculiar character of this traffic involves a special type of use of the highways, with enhanced wear
and tear on the roads and augmented hazards to other
traffic, which imposes on the state a heavier financial
burden for highway maintenance and policing than do
other types of motor car traffic. We cannot say that
these circumstances do not afford an adequate basis for
special licensing and taxing provisions, whose only effect,
even when applied to interstate traffic, is to enable the

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

state to police it, and to impose upon it a reasonable
charge, to defray the burden of this state expense, and
for the privilege of using the state highways.
As the tax is not on the use of the highways but on
the privilege of using them, without specific limitation as
to mileage, the levy of a flat fee not shown to be unreasonable in amount, rather than of a fee based on mileage,
is not a forbidden burden on interstate commerce. See
Clark v. Poor, supra; Aero Mayflower Transit Co. v.
Georgia Public Service Conn'n, supra.
Nor is it important that a part of the fees collected is
not devoted directly to highway maintenance, the cost
of which the state pays in part from the proceeds of a
general property tax. The use for highway maintenance
of a fee collected from automobile owners may be of
significance, when the point is otherwise in doubt, to
show that the fee is in fact laid for that purpose and is
thus a charge for the privilege of using the highways.
Interstate Transit, Inc. v. Lindsey, supra. But where
the manner of the levy, like that prescribed by the present statute, definitely identifies it as a fee charged for
the grant of the privilege, it is immaterial whether the
state places the fees collected in the pocket out of which
it pays highway maintenance charges or in some other.
2. It is not denied that automobiles moving in caravans, as do appellant's, constitute a class of traffic which
may be taxed differently from other classes without infringing the equal protection clause. But it is insisted
that such is not the classification of the statute. It is
said that the statute in terms imposes the special permit
fee on every automobile transported for sale, whether
moving singly or in a caravan; that when moving singly
a car, merely because intended for sale, presents no differences from like cars, moving for other purposes, which
would afford any basis for a difference in taxation. But
this argument both ignores the actual circumstances in

MORF v. BINGAMAN.
407

Opinion of the Court.

which the statute is applied, as shown by the record, and
seeks to take advantage of an alleged discrimination
which, if it exists, does the appellant no harm.
There is nothing in the Fourteenth Amendment which
requires classification for taxation to follow any particular
form of words. If that adopted results in the application of the tax to a class which may be separately taxed
without a denial of. equal protection, those within the
class who are called upon to pay the tax cannot complain
that the taxed class might have been more aptly defined,
or that the statute may tax others who are not within the
class. Here it is the practice of transporting automobiles
over the highways for purpose of sale which has given
rise to the practice of moving them in caravans. The use
of automobiles for other business purposes, or for pleasure, does not have that result. So far as it appears, the
movement of cars singly for purposes of sale is negligible,
and it is shown affirmatively that the cars transported
for sale by appellant move in caravans. The classification
of the statute thus, in its practical operation, embraces
and is constitutionally applicable to cars moving in caravans, the class of traffic in which the appellant engages
and on which he is alone taxed. Such discrimination as
there may be is not between those who, like appellant,
drive their automobiles to market in caravans and others
who drive them singly, for both are taxed. Discrimination, if any, is between those who drive their cars to
market singly. and others who drive them for other purposes, and may be subjected to a different tax. Appellant does not assert that he belongs to either class. As
the traffic in which he participates is properly taxed he
cannot complain of the imposition of the tax on a business which he does not do. Roberts & Schaefer Co. v.
Emmerson, 271 U. S. 50, 54, 55; Keeney v. New York,
222 U. S. 525, 536, 537; Hatch v. Reardon, 204 U. S. 152,
160, 161; Cf. Collins v. Texas, 223 U. S. 288; Dillingham
v. McLaughlin, 264 U. S. 370, 374. We have no occasion

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

to pass upon the validity of the tax as applied to cars
driven singly.
3. In the absence of a controlling decision by the state
courts, we see no reason for rejecting the conclusion of
the district court that the fee provisions of Chapter 56 of
the New Mexico Session Laws of 1935 were not repealed
by Chapter 136, passed a week later at the same session
of the Legislature. As already indicated, the latter
makes provision for the administration of the special permit provisions of the earlier statute. It also, by §§ 8, 6
and 13 levies a graduated mileage tax of (11/2 cents per
mile for cars not exceeding 15,000 pounds in weight) upon
motor vehicles not registered or licensed in the state,
transported over the highways for purpose of sale. The
statute declares that the tax is levied for the support of
the administration of the Act, and for the maintenance of
the highways.
Appellant does not assail this tax, but insists that it
was intended as a substitute for the flat fee charged by
the earlier provisions for a special permit. If the later
tax, as the district court held, is imposed on motor cars
transported as are appellant's, it is not inconsistent with
the imposition of the flat permit fee, but supplementary
to it. Repeal by implication is not favored, especially
where the one Act follows close upon the other, at the same
session of the legislature. Cf. Graham & Foster v. Goodcell, 282 U. S. 409; Rodgers v. United States, 185 U. S.
83, 89; Beals v. Bale, 4-How. 37, 53. Moreover, the later
Act in this case was careful to provide that the new mileage tax which it imposes is not to apply to vehicles
licensed and entitled to license plates, and otherwise
taxed, under state law. The statute thus grants an explicit exemption from double taxation which it omits to
extend to motor cars which, like appellant's, secure a
special permit and do not receive state licenses and
license plates.
Affirmed.

