OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
298 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

SCHENEBECK v. McCRARY

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 810.

Jurisdictional statement distributed March 28, 1936.Decided April 13, 1936.

A taxpayer in Arkansas has no vested interest in public funds deposited by a county treasurer in a designated depositary; consequently, state legislation releasing the treasurer and his bondsmen and the bondsmen of the depositary from liability for deposits
lost through the insolvency of the depositary, was not in thiA case
an impairment of the obligation of contracts.
191 Ark. 698; 87 S. W. (2d) 572, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a judgment affirming in part and in part

.mersing a judgment of the trial court in an action to
recover county funds.
Mr. John Ross Thompson for appellant.
Mr. Charles A. Walls for appellees.
PER CURIAM.

Prior to its insolvency, the Lonoke County Bank was
the duly designated depository for the public funds of
Lonoke County, Arkansas. In November, 1934, the
County Court entered an order compromising the liability
of the sureties on the depository bond. In December,
1934, appellant, a taxpayer of the county, brought this
action, in the first count, against the county treasurer
and her bondsmen, and in the second count, against the
bondsmen for the depository, seeking to recover the
amount of public funds on deposit in the bank when it
closed.
The defense relied upon Acts No. 16 and No. 325 of the
Acts of Arkansas of 1935. Act No. 16 released county
treasurers and their bondsmen from liability where deposited funds had been lost by reason of the insolvency

SCHENEBECK v. McCRARY.
36

Opinion of the Court.

of the bank and not through defalcation of the county
treasurer. By Act No. 325 similar relief was given to
the bondsmen for a county depository. Appellant contended that the legislation impaired the obligation of contracts in violation of Article I ยง 10, of the Constitution
of the United States.
The trial court sustained the plea of the county treasurer and her bondsmen, under Act No. 16, and overruled
the plea of the bondsmen for the depository, and rendered judgment accordingly. On appeal and cross appeal,
the Supreme Court of the State affirmed the judgment
with respect to the county treasurer and her bondsmen,
and reversed the judgment and dismissed the cause with
respect to the bondsmen for the depository, construing
and sustaining the legislation invoked. The Supreme
Court of the State decided that the individual taxpayers
had no vested interest in the public funds in question and
hence that there was no impairment of the obligation of
contracts. The state court drew a distinction between
the case of such taxpayers in relation to general public
funds, and those who have a vested interest in the funds
of an improvement district, citing Bauer v. North Arkansas Highway Improvement District No. 1, 168 Ark.
220, 224; 270 S. W. 533.
While this Court, when a question under the contract
clause is raised, may examine the alleged contract in
order to determine the obligations which inhere in it, we
find no ground for disturbing the ruling of the state court
as to petitioner's lack of a vested interest in the funds
deposited. Compare Violet Trapping Co. v. Grace, 297
U. S. 119; Ingraham v. Hanson, 297 U. S. 378.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

