OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Counsel for Parties.

298 U.S.

LOWDEN ET AL., TRUSTEES, v. NORTHWESTERN
NATIONAL BANK & TRUST CO.
iEi-RTIFICATE FROM TIlE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 743.

Argued April 3, 1936.-Decided April 27, 1936.

1. The Court will not answer on certificate questions unrelated to
the pending controversy, or questions unnecessarily general, or
questions which admit of one answer in one set of circumstances
and a different ansver in another, the differentiating circumstance§
being imperfectly disclosed. P. 162.
2. The question whether and to what extent a bank owing money to
a railway and owning some of the railway's bonds may be allowed
to set them off in an action on the debt brought by trustees
appointed for the railway in reorganization proceedings under § 77
of the Bankruptcy Act, is not a question that can be answered on
certificate without full knowledge of all the relevant particulars of
the situation. P. 164.
Certificate dismissed.
QUESTIONS certified with relation to an appeal to the
court below from a judgment, 11 F. Supp. 929, allowing
a set-off in favor of the Bank, in an action by the
trustees appointed for the Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific
Railway Company in reorganization proceedings.

Messrs. Edward S. Stringer and Marcus L. Bell, with
whom Messrs. Alexander E. Horn, Daniel Taylor, and

Otis F. Glenn were on the brief, for Lowden et al.,
Trustees.
Mr. Claude G. Krause for Northwestern National Bank
& Trust Co.
By leave of Court, Mr. Garfield E. Breese filed a brief
as amicus curiae urging an affirmative answer 'to all three

of the questions certified.

LOWDEN v. N. W. NATIONAL BANK.
160

161

Opinion of the Court.

MR.
Court.

JUSTICE

CARDOZO delivered the opinion of the

On June 7, 1933, the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific
Railway Company filed in the United States District
Court for the Northern District of Illinois its petition
for reorganization under § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act.
11 U. S. C. § 205.* At that time the railroad had to its
credit the sum of $36,908.72 in a checking account with
the Northwestern National Bank and Trust Company of
Minneapolis. The bank was then the owner of First and
Refunding Gold Bonds issued by the railroad of the par
value of $100,000, not yet in default in respect of principal or interest. On June 19, 1933, seven days after
receiving a copy of an order approving the petition for
reorganization, the bank set off the deposit against the
bonds by appropriate entries upon its books of account.
Trustees of the estate of the railroad were appointed by
the court in accordance with the statute, though whether
before the attempted set-off or thereafter the record does
not tell us. They brought suit against the bank in the
United States District Court for Minnesota, not the court
of bankruptcy administration, to recover the amount of
the deposit set off against the bonds. After answer by
the bank and a trial of the issues, the court entered a decree upholding the validity of the set-off, with a correction not now material as to the amount of the deposit..
11 F. Supp. 929. The trustees appealed to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. That court,
after certifying the facts substantially as summarized
above, requested our instructions upon the following
questions (Judicial Code, § 239; 28 U. S. C. § 346):
* The references in this opinion are to § 77 as enacted March 3,
1933, 47 Stat. 1474, and not to the amendments of August 27, 1935,
49 Stat. 911, 926.
63773-36-11

OCTOBER

T

ERM, 1935.

Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

"Question 1. Does the right of set-off recognized by
section 68 (a) of the Bankruptcy Act apply to reorganization proceedings under section 77 of that act?
"Question 2. If the first question be answered in the
affirmative, can a bank which owns the unmatured bonds
of a railroad corporation set off a deposit account of the
railroad with the bank against the bonds, upon the filing
by the railroad of a petition for reorganization under section 77 of the Bankruptcy Act, alleging that the railroad
is unable to meet its debts as they mature?
"Question 3. If the first and second questions be
answered in the affirmative, may the United States District Court, for the District of Minnesota, in the suit by
the trustees of the railroad's estate to recover the amount
deducted from the account of the railroad by the bank under the claimed right of set-off, recognize and establish
as a proper set-off by the bank one which was not made
until after the filing of the petition for reorganization and
which has never been ordered, authorized, approved, or
consented to by the court in which that petition was filed
and approved?"
This court has had occasion recently to restate the rules
announced in earlier decisions as to the mode of formulating questions coming here upon certificates. Mantle
Lamp Co. v. Aluminum Products Co., 297 U. S. 638. We
will not answer abstract questions unrelated to the pending controversy, or questions unnecessarily general, or
questions which admit of one answer in one set of circumstances and a different answer in another, the differentiating circumstances being imperfectly disclosed. White
v. Johnson, 282 U. S. 367, 371; United States v. Mayer,
235 U. S.55, 66; United States v. Hall, 131 U. S.50, 52;
Webster v. Cooper, 10 How. 54, 55; Hallowell v. United
States, 209 U. S. 101, 107; General Motors Corp. v.
United States, 286 U. S.49, 63. The questions now be-

LOWI)EN v. N. W. NATIONAL BANK.
160

163

Opinion of the Court.

fore us have been framed without adequate regard to these
established rules of practice.
Question No. 1 is too general and abstract, its relation
to the controversy being indirect and problematical. "In
all cases of mutual debts or mutual credits between the
estate of a bankrupt and a creditor the account shall be
stated and one debt shall be set off against the other,
and the balance only shall be allowed or paid." Bankruptcy Act, § 68 (a); 11 U. S. C. § 108. The precept,
framed on the example of ancient laws across the seas (4
Anne, c. 17, § 11; 5 Geo. II, c. 30, § 28), is now applicable
by force of statute to the liquidation of estates in bankruptcy. We are asked to announce broadly whether it is
applicable with similar inclusiveness to proceedings to
reorganize a, railroad, though the question tells us nothing
as to the facts behind the controversy. "The court has
repeatedly held that it will not answer questions of objectionable generality." White v. Johnson,supra; United
States v. Worley, 281 U. S. 339, 340; United States v.
Mayer, supra. Without a showing of the facts an answer
to this question would declare a mere abstraction which
might seem too narrow or too broad thereafter when the
facts were shown forth. One must see the controversy
in its setting before the implications of a ruling can be
prefigured with assurance.
Question No. 2 is dependent by its terms upon an
affirmative answer to question No. 1. It is open, however,
to objections on its own accounit. Like question No. 1 it is
far too general in its range. Moreover, it is silent as to
facts which a court of equity should know before hazarding an answer. A proceeding to reorganize is not a bankruptcy, though an amendment to the bankruptcy act
creates and regulates the remedy. From the fact without
more that such a proceeding has been initiated, one cannot know that it will be necessary to have recourse to § 68,

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

which was meant in its enactment to prescribe the rule of
set-off upon a distribution of the assets. That stage of administration, or the analogous stage of a revision of the
debts, may never be attained in a proceeding to reorganize,
though a petition has been approved and trustees have
been appointed. If a plan of reorganization is not proposed or accepted, or, being proposed and accepted, is not
confirmed by the court within a reasonable time, the
whole proceeding may be dismissed, § 77 (c) (7), the title
to the estate thus reverting to the debtor.. By that time
there may even be ability to pay demands as they mature.
What is done at the beginning amounts to little more
than a provisional sequestration to give protection for the
future.
The right of set-off must fit itself to these procedural
conditions. It is not susceptible of definition in the abstract without reference to the time or occasion of the
controversy or the relation of the suit to the primary
proceeding. Irrespective of the acceptance or confirmation of a plan, the trustees must have the power to
gather in the assets and keep the business going. To
exercise that power, they may find it necessary to sue,
and the suit may turn upon the right of set-off, as it does
in the case at hand. In a suit for such a purpose, a suit
collateral to the main proceeding and initiated at a time
when the outcome of that proceeding is still unknown and
unknowable, § 68 of the statute does not control the disposition of the controversy ex proprio vigore. It governs,
if at all, by indirection and analogy according to the circumstances. The rule to be accepted for the purpose of
such a suit is that enforced by courts of equity, which
differs from the rule in bankruptcy chiefly in its greater
flexibility, the rule in bankruptcy being framed in adaptation to standardized conditions, and that in equity varying with the needs of the occasion, though remaining

LOWDEN v. N. W. NATIONAL BANK.
160

165

Opinion of the Court.

constant, like the statute, in the absence of deflecting
forces. Scott v. Armstrong, 146 U. S. 499, 507; North
Chicago Rolling Mill Co. v. St. Louis Ore & Steel Co.,
152 U. S. 596, 615; Scammon v. Kimball, 92 U. S. 362,
366; Sawyer v. Iloag, 17 Wall. 610, 622; Clark Bros. &
Co. v. Pou, 20 F. (2d) 74, 77, 78; Greene v. Darling
(Story, J.), 5 Mason 201, 210; Gray v. Rollo, 18 Wall.
629, 632; Dade v. Irwin's Executor, 2 How. 383, 390, 391;
Studley v. Boylston National Bank, 229 U. S. 523, 528,
529; Pond v. Harwood, 139 N. Y. 111, 119; 34 N. E. 768;
Frank v. Mercantile National Bank, 182 N. Y. 264, 268;
74 N. E. 841; Lockwood v. Beckwith, 6 Mich. 168, 175;
Story, Equity Jurisprudence, 14th ed., §§ 1871, 1872.
The defects of the certificate, its incomplete disclosure
of the facts conditioning an answer, are thus exhibited
in clear relief. "Insolvency" in proceedings to reorganize
(§ 77) is often very different from "insolvency" in ordinary bankruptcy. § 1 (15). There is at least a possibility that at times the difference may be great enough
to vary the resulting equities. When things are called
by the same name it is easy for the mind to slide into an
assumption that the verbal identity is accompanied in all
its sequences by identity of meaning. A court of equity
in allowing or rejecting set-off will not be guilty of that
fallacy. To know "the justice of the particular case"
(Scott v. Armstrong, supra; Story, Equity Jurisprudence,
supra), one must know the case in its particulars. Mfore
concretely, one must know the value of the assets, the
temporary or permanent character of the debtor's inability to pay its debts as they mature, the liens, if there
are any, superior to the bonds in controversy, the probability of an understanding that the bonds, though unmatured, would be used to cancel the deposits, all the
circumstances, in brief, that might affect the judgment of
the chancellor in weighing the competing equities of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

interested factions and shaping his decree accordingly.
We have no thought at this time to foreshadow the result
of an exploring expedition directed to those ends. When
all the facts are known, they may be found to offer no
excuse for a departure from the rule in bankruptcy which,
as indicated already, is generally, even if not always, the
rule in equity as well. They may point, on the other
hand, to the need for an exception, or may even lead to a
decree in the nature of a compromise, the moneys being
paid into the registry of the court to abide its future
action. A decision balancing the equities must await
the exposure of a concrete situation with all its qualifying incidents. What we disclaim at the moment is a
willingness to put the law into a strait-jacket by subjecting it to a pronouncement of needless generality.
Question No. 3 is so framed as not to call for an answer
unless an affirmative answ6r is given to questions Nos. 1
and 2.
Our conclusion as to the defective form of the certificate is borne out in a striking way by the concession of
the parties. Before the argument on the questions,
plaintiffs and defendant joined in moving us for an order
to bring up the whole case. That motion was denied.
Nothing in the nature of the controversy called for a
writ of certiorari in advance of a decision by the court
of intermediate appeal. The significant thing, however,
is that in briefs submitted on that motion both parties
admitted that the second question was defective. The
plaintiffs said: the statement "is not sufficiently complete to enable this court to answer the second question
as applied to this case." The defendant made a like objection. Plaintiffs and defendant fortified their general
criticism by the enumeration of particular defects.
The certificate is
Dismissed.

