ATLANTIC LUMBER CO. v. COMM'R.

553

Syllabus.

ATLANTIC LUMBER CO. v. COMMISSIONER OF
CORPORATIONS AND TAXATION OF MASSACHUSETTS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF
MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 715.

Argued April 2, 1936.-Decided May 25, 1936.

I A corporation, organized under the laws of Delaware and engaged
in the wholesale lumber business, had its principal office in Massachusetts. The corporate books and records were kept in Massachusetts; there also the treasurer of the company was located,
directors' meetings were held and dividends declared. It maintained within the State a sales office, which was used as a headquarters for its salesmen, who solicited orders both within and
outside of the State. No stocks of lumber were kept within the
State, the only tangible property there being office equipment and
salesmen's automobiles. Orders received at the Massachusetts
office were filled from a distributing yard or a mill of a subsidiary,
both located outside of the State. Remittances from its customers
were made to the Massachusetts office. Of several bank accounts
the one which it maintained within the State was the most active,
and such dividends as had been paid were paid out of that
account. The company owned practically all the stock of three
subsidiaries, two of which were engaged in cutting timber and manufacturing lumber in other States, and the third merely holding
title to timber lands in another State. Held, an excise tax imposed by Massachusetts for the privilege of carrying on business
within the State, measured by a percentage of such proportion of
the fair value of the capital stock of the corporation as the value
of the assets employed within the State bore to the value of its total
assets, did not impose an unconstitutional burden upon interstate
commerce. Cheney Bros. Co. v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 147,
followed; Ozark Pipe Line Co. v. Monier, 266 U. S. 555, distinguished. P. 556.
2. The burden of the tax, if any, on interstate commerce, is not
immediate and direct but remote and incidental-a d'stinction
which, in respect of the class of legislation here involved, marks the
line between a tax which is valid and one which is not. P. 557.
197 N. E. 525, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

APPEAL from a judgment sustaining a decision of the
state board of tax appeals and upholding the validity of
a corporation privilege tax.

Mr. Robert C. McKay for appellant.
Mr. James J. Ronan, Assistant' Attorney General of
Massachusetts, with whom Mr. Paul A. Dever, Attorney
General, was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the

Court.
A Massachusetts statute (Gen. Laws, Ter. ed., c. 63, §§
39-43) imposes upon a foreign corporation, with respect
to the carrying on or doing of business by it within the
commonwealth, an excise in a sum to be ascertained as
the statute provides. So far as the present case is concerned, the amount of the excise is a specified percentage
of the value of the corporate excess employed by the corporation within the commonwealth. Such corporate excess (§ 30, par. 4) means, in the case of a foreign corporation, such proportion of the fair value of its capital
stock as the value of the assets employed in the commonwealth bears to the value of its total assets, less certain
deductions. Under this statute appellant's tax was fixed
at approximately $1,500. We find nothing in the record
to justify the conclusion that the amount of the tax
was not fairly arrived at under the provisions of the
statute as construed by the court below, or that it was so
allocated as to result in imposing a tax upon property
outside the state; and the only question is whether the
tax constitutes an unconstitutional burden upon interstate
commerce. The court below, sustaining the action of the
state board of tax appeals, held that the exaction was
an excise for the privilege of having a place for the transaction of intrastate business in the state with the protbetion of state law and the appertaining advantages;

ATLANTIC LUMBER CO. v. COMM'R.
553

555

Opinion of the Court.

and that the effect upon interstate commerce was at most
incidental and remote. 197 N. E. 525.
Appellant is a. corporation engaged in the wholesale
lumber business, and is organized under the laws of Delaware. Its principal office is in Massachusetts, where it
also maintains a sales office. Its Massachusetts office is
used as headquarters for salesmen, who solicit orders in
Massachusetts and other states. In that office it carries
on correspondence and other business activities in connection with orders for and shipments of goods for the
designated territory. Orders are accepted at the Massachusetts office, and are filled from the distributing yard
of the company or the mill of a subsidiary outside the
state. Remittances from its customers are made to the
Massachusetts office. No stocks of lumber are kept in
that state; and the only tangible property in the state
is office furniture and equipment and salesmen's automobiles. Appellant has bank accounts in Boston, New
York City, Buffalo, Brooklyn, and Toronto, Canada, the
Boston account being the most active. The corporate
books and records are kept in Massachusetts, where its
treasurer is located, its directors' meetings are held, and
dividends are declared. Dividends, so far as declared,
have been paid out of the Boston account.
Appellant owns practically all the stock of three subsidiaries. Two of them are engaged in cutting timber and
manufacturing lumber-one in Tennessee, Arkansas, and
Louisiana, and the other in South Carolina. The third
subsidiary simply holds title to timber lands in Louisiana.
If appellant did nothing but transact interstate business, the tax would constitute a burden upon that commerce, and could not stand under the commerce clause of
the Constitution. Alpha Cement Co. v. Massachusetts,
268 U. S. 203; Cheney Brothers Co. v. Massachusetts,
246 U. S. 147, 153; Ozark Pipe Line Corp. v. Monier, 266
U. S. 555, 562 et seq.

556

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

But such is not the case. Although organized in Delaware, so far as the record shows appellant does not
function there but in Massachusetts, to which state the
exercise of its corporate powers was transferred and is confined. In the Champion Copper Company case, decided
by this court in Cheney Brothers Co. v. Massachusetts,
supra, p. 155, a Michigan corporation maintained an
office in Boston, pursuant to a provision in its articles of
association. The proceeds of its business in Michigan
were deposited in Boston banks, which, after paying salaries and expenses, were distributed as dividends from
the Boston office. Directors' meetings were held frequently during each year at the Boston office, at which
meetings reports from the treasurer and general manager were received, dividends were voted, officers were
elected, and other corporate duties were discharged. This
court held-"These corporate activities in Massachusetts
are not interstate commerce and may be made the basis
of an excise tax by that State."
The same decision involved a similar tax imposed upon
another Michigan corporation, the Copper Range Company. That company also maintained an office in Boston.
It was, like the appellant here, a holding company.
In Massachusetts it held stockholders' and directors'
meetings, kept corporate records and books of account, received dividends from its stock holdings, deposited the money in Boston banks, and paid the same
out, after deducting salaries and expenses, in dividends
to its stockholders. We held-"The exaction of a tax for
the exercise of such corporate faculties is within the
power of thp State. Interstate commerce is not affected."
The decision in respect of those companies covers the
present case; and since that decision has never been
overruled or qualified, it would be unnecessary to go further, except for Ozark Pipe Line v. Monier, supra, upon
which appellant confidently leans. The situation there,

ATLANTIC LUMBER CO. v. COMM'R.
553

557

Opinion of the Court.

however, was quite different from that presented in the
present case or in the cases of the two Michigan corporations just mentioned-a difference plainly recognized by
the opinion in the Ozark case. There, a Maryland corporation owned and operated a pipe line extending from
Oklahoma through Missouri to Illinois, by which crude
petroleum was carried from Oklahoma to Illinois. No oil
was received or delivered in Missouri. The license issued
by the state was to engage "exclusively in the business of
transporting crude petroleum by pipe line." The company, it is true, maintained its principal office in Missouri and there kept its books and bank accounts, paid
its employees, purchased supplies, employed labor, maintained telephone and telegraph lines, and carried on various other activities; but all were linked exclusively to the
pipe line and operated only to further the flow of oil in
interstate commerce. Neither property nor activities
were anything more than aids to the operation of the
pipe line; and together with that line they combined
to constitute in practical effect an instrumentality of
that commerce. Thus, the burden of the tax which the
State imposed fell upon interstate transportation immediately and directly, while here the effect upon interstate
commerce, so far as there is any, is remote and incidental-a distinction which, in respect of such legisla-.
tion as we are now considering, marks the line between
a tax which is valid and one which is not.
Judgment affirmed.

