U. S. v. ATLANTIC MUTUAL CO.

483

Argument for the United States.

UNITED STATES v. ATLANTIC MUTUAL INSURANCE CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 21.

Argued October 18, 1935.-Decided May 25, 1936.

1. A claim of contribution in general average presented against the
United States by suit in the Court of Claims filed more than six
years after the claim first accrued, is barred by U. S. C., Title
28, § 262. P. 488.
2. The right to contribution in general average accrues when all
the elements essential to its existence are present, regardless of
whether the appropriate means of enforcement be a suit in rem
or a suit in personam. P. 488.
3. The right to contribution in general average accrues and becomes
enforceable upon the arrival of the ship at port of destination
and delivery of the cargo, even though the amount of the required contribution has not then been liquidated. P. 489.
4. Claims against the United States for general average contribution
are brought and adjusted in the Court of Claims under U. S. C.,
Title 28, § 250 (1). The claim may accrue and be sued on even
though the damages sought be unliquidated. P. 490.
5. An adjuster, engaged by a ship-owner to make up a general
average statement, is not an arbitrator nor is his statement
binding, as an account stated or otherwise, upon his principal.
P. 491.
80 Ct. Cls. 11, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 295 U. S. 727, to review a judgment for the
Insurance Company upon its claim in general average
contribution against the United States.

Mr. J. Frank Staley, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, Assistant Attorney General MacLean, and Mr.
Paul A. Sweeney were on the brief, for the United
States.
A suit for a general-average contribution may be
brought from the time the vessel arrives at its port of
destination. A general-average statement is not a condi-

484

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
. Argument for Respondent.

298 U. S.

tion precedent. A general-average statement ij not an
account stated. The statute of limitations had run before the general-average statement was issued. Officers
of the Government have no authority to issue an account
stated, and revive an action which is barred.
The United States is not liable for contribution in
general average in so far as public vessels are concerned.
The case of Johnson & Higgins v. United States, 287
U. S. 459, expressly left this question open. An Army
transport is part of the sovereignty to which she belongs
and her liability is merged in that of her sovereign.
Equitable principles would deny the application of the
rule of general average to this case. The voyage here
was part of a military operation and should not be classed
as a common maritime venture.
The Court of Claims erred in tendering judgment in
excess of the amount actually paid by the respondent.
It was error to include interest.
Mr. J. M. Rich'ardsonLyeth for respondent.
A claim "for general average is cognizable in the Court
of Claims.
Salvage claims, even in the absence of any express contract, fall within the scope of the Tucker Act. United
States v. Cornell Steamboat Co.; 202 U. S. 184; The
Davis, 10 Wall. 15; McGowan v. United States, 20 Ct.
Cls. 147; United States v. Morgan, 99 Fed. 570. The
similarity between claims for salvage, where no express
contract has been made, and claims for general average
has been recognized. The Davis, supra; Abbott's Merchant Ships and Seamen, 14th ed. (1901), p. 751.
The voyage of the Logan was subject to general average rules. It makes no difference whether the Logan
was engaged in a military operation. In fact she was a
public vessel, owned by the Government, and immune
from attachment, seizure, or any proceeding in rem.
The proposition that, because no liability in rem against

U. S. 'v. ATLANTIC MUTUAL CO.
483

Argument for Respondent.

the vessel may be enforced, no liability in personam arises
against the owner of the vessel is completely answered
by this Court in Workman v. New York City, 179 U. S.
552, 572. See United States v. The Thekla, 266 U. S.
328; In re U. S. Steel Products Co., 24 F. (2d) 657.
The cases generally recognize no distinction between
the commercial or public character of the service upon
which the vessel is engaged for the purpose of determining liability of the Government in general average, salvage, or collision. Brown v. United States, 15 Ct. Cls.
-392; Prince Line, Ltd. v. United States, 61 Ct. Cls. 632;
United States v. Wilder, 28 Fed. Cas. 16,694.
The cause of action is not barred. The period did not
begin to run until the issue of the general average statement in 1926. The Allianca, 64 Fed. 871, aff'd, 79 Fed.
989; Frederick H. Leggett & Co. v. 500 Cases of Tomatoes, 15 F. (2d) 270; Dupont v. Vance, 19 How. 162;
The Eugenia J. Diacakis, 1923 A. M. C. 305; Wellman v.
Morse, 76 Fed. 573; Det Forenede Dampskibs Seliskab v.
Insurance Co., 31 F. (2d), 658.
No action in rem could have been maintained against
the transport Logan, because she was a public vessel.
Western Maid, 257 U. S. 419; The Siren, 7 Wall. 152.
Even if she had been a private vessel, we contend that
the right of action which would have arisen at the time
of the arrival of the vessel would have been in the nature
of an action to obtain security by the enforcement of a
lien, rather than a suit upon a liquidated obligation.
A cargo owner has two causes of action upon a general
average sacrifice, one arising upon the arrival of the
vessel, and the second arising upon the completion of
the general average statement by the vessel owner.
The United States, as owner of the Logan, was under
a duty to prepare or cause to be prepared the general
average statement. Johnson & Higgins v. United States,
287 U. S. 459; The Emilid S. De Perez, 22 F. (2d) 585.

486

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

Until the vessel owner has expressed an intention to
refuse to perform these obligations, or until he has failed
to perform them after the lapse of a reasonable time,
there is no basis or reason for the cargo owner to sue
him in personam.
The rule that the statute of limitations in a suit
brought upon the general average statement does not
begin to run until the issue of the statement by the adjusters accords with commercial practice and business
necessity.
The custom of deferring collection and distribution
of general average payments until after the preparation
of the statement is based not merely on convenience
but on necessity. The facts which are the necessary
basis for preparing a general average statement are numerous and complicated, and must be gathered frequently from widely separated and distant points.
The respondent as insurer was entitled to the full
amount of the award, including interest.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This was a suit to obtain a contribution in general
average by reason of the sacrifice of part of a ship's cargo
for the benefit of the ship and cargo as a whole. The
Court of Claims gave judgment for the claimant and the
case is here on certiorari. The material facts, as shown
by the findings below, are as follows:
In 1918 the Logan, an army transport owned and operated by the United States, left San Francisco for Manila
with a cargo consisting of military supplies belonging
to the United States, certain property belonging to the
government of the Philippine Islands and its railroad, and
other property belonging in large part to the American
Red Cross and in lesser part to officers of the United
States Army, none of which was being transported for

U. S. v. ATLANTIC MUTUAL CO.
483

487

Opinion of the Court.

hire. During the voyage fire broke out in the hold from
a cause free- from negligence, and to prevent a loss of
both vessel and cargo the master caused part of the cargo
to be jettisoned and water to be let into the hold, whereby
other parts of the cargo were damaged. After the fire
was extinguished the transport continued the voyage and
arrived a't the port of destination January 19, 1919. All
that remained of the cargo was then discharged and, with
the master's assent, was delivered to its owners without
obtaining from them any bond to secure payment of
general average.
The part of the cargo belonging to the Philippine government and its railroad was insured against marine
perils, including fire, by policies obtained before the voyage was begun. Substantial portions of this property
were jettisoned or damaged at the time of the fire. April
12, 1921, the underwriter, in compliance with the policies,
paid to the Philippine government and its railroad the
amounts of their respective losses, and thereby became
subrogated to their rights, if any, under the maritime
rule respecting general average.
May 15, 1921, the underwriter presented to the War
Department a claim for general average contribution
based on the facts here stated, and the claim was denied. But the Judge Advocate General disapproved that
ruling and gave an opinion that the claim was well
grounded. Thereafter, on August 22, 1922, an administrative officer in the army transport service transmitted
the files relating to the claim to a company doing business as an average adjuster and insurance broker at San
Francisco and requested that the adjuster prepare "a
statement of general average in order that the responsibility of the various parties concerned may be determined." The adjuster accepted that task and completed
and rendered such a statement December 31, 1926. In
this statement the adjuster computed the net contribu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

tion to be made by the United States to the underwriter
by reason of the latter's subrogation to the rights of the
Philippine government and its railroad at something over
$40,000; and also computed the contributions to be made
to the underwriter by other cargo owners. On March
28, 1928, the accounting officers of the United States denied the claim for contribution, and on December 10,
1928, the Comptroller General, on review, sustained that
ruling. The claimant brought the present suit in the
Court of Claims February 18, 1929.
One of the defenses interposed by the government and
rejected by the court is that the claim had become completely barred before the suit was begun. The statute1
invoked by this defense declares:
."Every claim against the United States cognizable
by
the Court of Claims shall be forever barred unless the
petition setting forth a statement thereof is filed in the
court ... within six years after the claim first accrues."
The government contends that the claim first accrued
on January 19, 1919, when the transport reached its destination and delivered what remained of the cargo to
the cargo owners. On the other hand, the claimant insists the claim first accrued on December 31, 1926, when
the adjuster completed and rendered the general average
statement. The court rejected the government's contention and sustained that of the claimant. In this we think
it erred.
The court recognized that the transport, had it been
privately owned, would have become subject to a suit
in rem for contribution in general average upon its arrival
at destination and the delivery of the cargo, but held that
as the transport was government owned and in the public service such a suit would not lie against it. We assent to this, but think the accrual of the right to contriU. S. C., Title 28, § 262.

U. S. v. ATLANTIC MUTUAL CO.
483

Opinion of the Court.

bution did not depend upon whether it could be enforced
by a suit in rem against the ship. Such a right accrues
if and when all the elements essential to its existence are
present, regardless of whether the appropriate means of
enforcement be a suit in rem or a suit in personam. In
this instance, as we shall show, a suit of the latter class
was the appropriate means.
The law of general average is an ancient feature of the
maritime law and proceeds on the equitable principle that
that which is sacrificed by one for the benefit of all in the
course of a common venture at sea should be made good
by the contribution of all.'
Various means of enforcing such contribution have become well recognized, such as a suit in rem in admiralty
against ship or cargo, a suit in personam in admiralty
against ship owner or cargo owner,' and an action at law 4
or a suit in equity' against ship owner or cargo owner.
Save for exceptional rulings afterwards disapproved, the
courts in dealing with such suits and actions have regarded the right to contribution as accruing and becoming enforceable upon the arrival of the ship at the port of
destination and the delivery of the cargo. In reason the
rule could not well be otherwise, for every element of the
right is then present. That the amount of the required
Barnard v. Adams, 10 How. 270, 303; Ralli v. Troop, 157 U. S.
386; Simonds v. White, 2 Barn. & Cress. 805, 811.
'Bark San Fernando v. Jackson, 12 Fed. 341; The Emilia S. De
Perez, 22 F. (2d) 585, 586; Det Forenede Dampskibs Selskab v.
Insurance Company of North America, 31 F. (2d) 658 (certiorari
denied, 280 U. S. 571); Kohler & Chase v. United American Lines, 60
F. (2d) 530. And see Insurance Co. v. Dunham, 11 Wall. 1; 1 Benedict on Admiralty, 5th ed. § 98.
'Birkley v. Presgrave, 1 East 220; Price v. Noble, 4 Taunt. 123;
Dobson v. Wilson, 3 Camp. 480; Strang, Steel & Co. v. A. Scott &
Co., L. R. 14 App. Cas. 601, 606-607.
'Sturgess v. Cary, Fed. Cas, No, 13,572; 1 Story's Equity Jur.
14th ed. §§ 661 et seq.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

contribution may then be unliquidated is no obstacle, for
in proper sequence liquidation comes after accrual, and
can be made in the suit or action wherein the right is presented for adjudication. In this regard a claim for contribution does not differ from many others where at the
time of accrual the recoverable damages or amount due
remains unliquidated. As was well said in a related
case,' "The law is familiar enough in action of tort and
in many actions in contract, with liabilities which are
presently due, although unliquidated."
The United States is not suable without its assent, and
therefore a suit in personam against it as the owner of the
vessel needed the support of a permissive statute. But
there is such a statute,' which has been long in force. It
in direct terms invests the Court of Claims with jurisdiction to hear and determine all claims against the United
States founded"upon any contract, express or implied, with the Government of the United States, or for damages, liquidated
or unliquidated, in cases not sounding in tort, in respect
of which claims the party would be entitled to redress
against the United States either in a court of law, equity,
or admiralty if the United States were suable."
It is under this statute that claims against the United
States for general average contribution are brought and
adjudicated in the Court of Claims. Obviously the
statute contemplates that a claim may accrue and be sued
on even though the damages sought be unliquidated.
For these reasons we think it quite plain that the present claim accrued January 19, 1919, when the ship reached
its destination and the cargo was delivered.
6Det Forenede Dampskibs Selskab v. Insurance

Co. of North

America, 31 F. (2d) 658, 660 (certiorari denied, 280 U. S. 571).

'U. S. C., Title 28, § 250 (1).

U. S. v. ATLANTIC MUTUAL CO.
483

Opinion of the Court.

The court below attached much importance to the
statement in general average made by the adjuster at
the request of an administrative officer in the army transport service. Indeed, the court treated the statement
as being "in the nature of an account stated," and ruled
that the right to contribution accrued when it was rendered. In this we think the court misconceived the functions of the adjuster and the nature of the statement.
The adjuster was not an arbitrator,' nor was the statement anything more than a provisional estimate and calculation which his principal, the owner, was free to adopt
or to put aside. In the absence of some stipulation on
the subject, and there was none, his function was only
that of aiding or assisting the owner in gathering and
stating data and making appropriate calculations as a
suggested basis for an adjustment to be made by the
owner, or under the owner's direction. It is not shown
that the owner adopted the statement or put it forth as
an authorized statement. In this situation the statement
had no binding force as a stated account or otherwise. As
was explained by Lord Herschell when speaking for the
Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in Wavertree
Sailing Ship Co. v. Love, L. R., (1897) App. Cas. 373;-"The right to receive and the obligation to make general average contribution existed long before any class of
persons devoted themselves as their calling to the preparation of average statements. It was formerly, according to Lord Tenterden, the practice to employ an insurance broker for the purpose. The shipowner was not
bound to employ a member of any particular class of persons or indeed to employ any one at all. He might if he
pleased make out his own average statement, and he may
do the same at the present time if so minded. If he en' The Alpin, 23 Fed. 815, 819; The Santa Anna Maria, 49 Fed.
878, 879.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for the United States.

298 U. S.

gages the services of an average stater, it is merely as
a matter of business convenience on his part."
What we have said suffices to show that the claim accrued more than six years before the suit was begun, and
therefore was barred by the statute.
Judgment reversed.

UNITED STATES v. ELGIN, JOLIET & EASTERN
RAILWAY CO.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 660.

Argued April 8, 9, 1936.-Decided May 25, 1936.

1. Legislative approval of a construction placed by this Court upon
an Act of Congress is evidenced by failure to amend. P. 500.
2. The mere fact that all the shares of a railroad corporation and all
the shares of a manufacturing corporation are owned by a holding
company does not make transportation by the one of the products
of the other unlawful under the commodities clause of the Interstate Commerce Act. P. 499.
United States v. Reading Co., 253 U. S. 26, distinguished. Existence of power in the holding company to control the railway company, not exercised in the present case, did not make the railway
company the alter ego of the holding company.
11 F. Supp. 435, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a decree of the District Court of three

judges, which dismissed a bill brought by the United
States to enjoin the Railway Company from hauling the
products of certain manufacturing companies in alleged
violation of the commodities clause of the Interstate
Commerce Act.
Assistant Solicitor General Bell, with whom Solicitor
General Reed and Messrs. Daniel W. -Knowlton, M. S.
Huberman, and Elmer B. Collins were on the brief, for
the United States.

