OPINION OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICE
IN CHAMBERS

BAGLEY, WARDEN v. BYRD
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. 01A375.

Decided November 6, 2001

Applicant warden's request for a stay of District Court proceedings pending the disposition of her certiorari petition is denied. After that court
and a Sixth Circuit panel denied respondent, an Ohio death-row inmate,
relief on his second federal habeas petition, the en banc Sixth Circuit
remanded the case for the District Court to develop a factual record
sufficient to permit sua sponte consideration of a request for leave to
file a second habeas petition supported by actual innocence allegations.
Applicant argues that the Sixth Circuit's procedures are highly irregular, but she fails to demonstrate either that the District Court's hearing
will cause irreparable harm to the State or that it will affect this Court's
jurisdiction to act on her certiorari petition.
JUSTICE STEVENS,

Circuit Justice.

Respondent, John W. Byrd, Jr., is an Ohio death-row inmate who has exhausted his state-court remedies and who
was denied relief in his first federal habeas corpus proceeding. His application to file a second petition for a federal
writ, which is supported by his allegations of actual innocence, has been denied by the District Court and a panel of
the Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. However, on
October 9, 2001, a majority of the active judges of the Court
of Appeals entered an order remanding the case to the District Court "for the development of a factual record sufficient
to permit sua sponte consideration of a request for leave to
file a second petition for a writ of habeas corpus." In re
Byrd, 269 F. 3d 585, 608 (CA6 2001). The order cites cases
decided by the Second and Eighth Circuits, Triestman v.
United States, 124 F. 3d 361, 367 (CA2 1997); Krimmel v.
1301

BAGLEY v. BYRD
Opinion in Chambers

Hopkins, 56 F. 3d 873, 874 (CA8 1995), as "[t]he jurisdictional
basis for a rehearing sua sponte." 269 F. 3d, at 608.
Applicant, Margaret Bagley, has filed with the Clerk of the
Court a petition for certiorari questioning the jurisdiction of
the en banc court to enter the remand order, and has made
an application to me as Circuit Justice for a stay of the District Court proceedings pending disposition of her certiorari
petition. In addition, she filed a similar stay application
with the Court of Appeals, which that court has denied.
While expressing confidence that the District Court will find
Byrd's claim of actual innocence lacking in credibility, she
argues that the procedures followed and authorized by the
Court of Appeals are highly irregular. She fails, however,
to demonstrate either that the hearing will cause any irreparable harm to the State of Ohio or that it will affect this
Court's jurisdiction to act on her certiorari petition. See
Rubin v. United States, 524 U. S. 1301 (1998) (REHNQUIST,
C. J., in chambers) ("An applicant for stay first must show
irreparable harm if a stay is denied"); 28 U. S. C. ยง 1651(a)
(1994 ed.) (a stay is warranted only when "necessary or appropriate in aid of [our] jurisdictio[n]").
Because I have been advised that the hearing before the
District Court has already commenced, I have decided to act
on the stay application without calling for a response from
the respondent. The failure to allege irreparable harm, coupled with the fact that there is no need to enter an extraordinary writ to preserve this Court's jurisdiction, persuade me
that the stay application should be denied.
It is so ordered.

