OPINIONS OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICES IN CHAMBERS.FROM JULY 19, 1973, THROUGH
OCTOBER 96, 1973
EDELMAN, DIRECTOR, DEPARTMENT .OF
P.UBLIC AID OF ILLINOIS v; JORDAN
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-51(72-1410).

Decided July 19, 1973

Application for stay of mandate and judgment, holding certain procedures of the Illinois Department of Public Aid inconsistent.-with
Department of Health, Education, and Welfare regulations,. pending this Court's action on writ of certiorari granted June 11, 1973,
-denied as to those portions of judgment that apply prospectively
only and granted as to paragraphs 5 and 6 -thereof. If paragraph 5, directing that lump -um payments be made retroactively
to welfare applicants, is not stayed, petitioner would likely be
unable to recover funds. paid out. but respondent recipient would
be able, if he prevails, to collect all back payments found to be
due. The District Judge thought paragraph 6 could be complied
with in a period of 15 days, and given the length of time already
consumed by appellate review in this case,'the addition of two
weeks following this Court's decision is not of controlling ,ignificance in ddciding the application for. stay.
See: 472 F. 2d 985.

Circuit Justice.
Application has been made to rme by petitioner Edelman to stay the mandate and judgment of the Court of
Appeals for the Seventh Circuit pending review of that
ifidgment by this Court on writ of certiorari. Certiorari
was granted on June 11, 1973, 412 U, S. 937, and therefore
the critical question present in most stay applicationswhether or not four Justices of this Court would vote to
grant certiorari-is here already resolved. The judgment
MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

1301

1302

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion in Chambers

414 U. S.

which is to be reviewed affirmed a District Court judgment
holding certain procedures of the Illinois Department of
Public Aid to be inconsistent with regulations promulgated by the Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare, and therefore invalid to the extent that the
State was receiving federal funds for this particular welfare program. Portions of the District Court's judgment,
entered on March 15, 1972, are in their application prospective only, but paragraph 5 directs that lump-sum payments be made retroactively to applicants who, in the view
of the District Court and of the Court of Appeals, should
have received benefits but did not because of the Illinois
procedures held invalid. Paragraph 6 of the judgment
directs that petitioner's predecessor within 15 days from
its date submit 'to the Court a detailed statement as to
the .method for effectuating the relief required by paragraph 5.
I seriously doubt whether certiorari would have been
granted in this case had it not been for the presence of
paragraphs 6and 6 in the judgment of the District Court.
While the entire judgment will be before this Court for
review, I am inclined to think that four Justices of this
Court would not have voted to grant certiorari to review
those portions of the judgment which are in their effect
prospective only. I-therefore deny-the application for
the stay-of the mandate and judgment of the Court of
Appeals as to those portions of the District Court's judgment other than paragraphs 5 and 6.
Insofar as paragraphs 5 and 6 ,of th- judgment are
concerned, the decision of the Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit in 'this case conflicts with a judgment
of the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Rothstein v. Wyman, 467 F. 2d 226-(1972).
If paragraph 5 of the judgment is not stayed, I would think it
extremely unlikely that petitioner, should he succeed in
this Court, would be able to recover fund5 paid out under

EDELMAN v. JORDAN
1301

Opinion in Chambers

that paragraph to respondent welfare recipient and members of the class he represents. Respondent, on the other
hand, will be able to collect from petitioner all of the back
payments found due under paragraph 5 should he prevail.
A substantial legal question being present, these equities
lead me to conclude that paragraph 5 should bestayed.
Respondent argues that even though paragraph 5_be
stayed, paragraph 6 should be left in. effect pending review here. The lite Judge Napoli, however, in framing
paragraph 6 apparently thought that it dould be complied.
with in a period of 15 days; given the length of time
already consumed by appellate review in this case, the
'-addition of another two weeks following a conclusion
by this Court favorable to respondent. is not a matber
of controlling significance in deciding the-application for
the stay. It is also conceivable that paragraph 5 of the
judgment, with its detailed specifications as to dates,
might be modified by this Court on appeal.' Thus the
procedures developed under paragraph 6 might prove
to be entireh. useless, and a new set of pr6cedures necessitated, not only on the hypothesis of outright reversal
by this Court, but on the hypothesis of modification and.
affirmance.
Qn the basis of the- foregoing considerations,' an order
will be entered staying paragraphs 5 and 6 of the judgThent of the District Court in this case until further order
of this C irt.

