1316

16OCOBER TERM, 1973

Opinion in Chambers

414 U. S.

HOLTZMAN ET AL. V. SCHLESINGER ET AL.
ON REAPPLICATION TO VACATE STAY

No. A-150.

Decided August 4, 1973*

Application to vacate Court of Appeals' order staying District
Court's permanent injunction prohibiting respondent Defense
Department officials, from "participating in any way in military
activities in or over Cambodia or releasing any bombs which may
fall in Cambodia," denied by MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL, ante, p. 1304,
is granted, as MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS believes the merits of the-

controversy are substantial and
would catapult American. airmen
death zone. The case is treated
entered by the Court of Appeals
District Court is reinstated.
MR.JUSTICE

that denial of th6 application
and Cambodian peasants into a
as a capital case, and the stay
is vacated and the order of the

DOUGLAS, Circuit Justice.

My Brother MARSHALL, after a hearing, denied this
application which in effect means that the decision of the
District Court holding that the bombing of Cambodia
is unconstitutional is stayed pending hearing on the
merits before the Court of Appeals.
An application for stay denied by one Justice may be
made to another. We do not, -however, encourage the
practice; and when the Term starts, the Justices all being in Washington, D. C., the practice is to refer the
second application to the entire Court. That is the desirable practice to discourage "shopping around."
When the Court is in recess that practice cannot be
followed, for the Justices are scattered. Yakima, Washington, where I have scheduled the hearing, is nearly
3,000 miles from. Washington, D. C. Group action by all
Members is therefore impossible.
*[rEP.oRTR'S

MR.JUSTicE

NoTE: This opinion was released on August 4, 1973.
case was issued Aug, st 3, 1973.]

DOUGLAS' order in this

HOLTZMAN v. SCHLESINGER
1316

Opinion in Chambers

I approached this decision, however, with deliberation,
realizing that, while the judgment of my Brother MARSHALL is not binding on me, it is one to which I pay the
greatest deference.
My Brother MARsHALL accurately points out that if
the foreign policy goals of this Government are to be
weighed the Judiciary is probably the least qualified
branch to weigh them. He also states that if stays by
judicial officers in cases of this kind are to be vacated the
circumstances must be "exceptional." I agree with those
premises, and I respect the views of those who share my
*Brother MARSHALL'S predilections.
But this case in its stark realities involves the grim
consequences of a capital case. The classic capital case
is whether Mr. Lew, Mr. Low, or Mr. Lucas should die.
The present case involves whether Mr. X (an unknown
person or persons) should die. No one knows who they
are. They may be Cambodian farmers whose only "sin"
is a desire for socialized medicine to alleviate the suffering of their families and neighbors. Or Mr. X may be
the Ameiican pilot or navigator who drops a ton of
bombs on a Cambodian village. The upshot is -;hat we
know that someone is about to die.
Since that is true I see no reason to balance tt.e equities and consider the harm to our foreign policy if one.
or a thousand more bombs do not drop. The reason
is that we live under the Constitution and in Art. I, § 8,
cl. 11, it gives to Congress the power -to "declare War."
The basic question -on the merits is whether C )ngress,
within the meaning of Art. I, § 8, el. 11, has "declared
war" in Cambodia.
It has become popular to think the President has that
power to declare war. But there is not a wovrd in the
Constitution that grants that power to him. It runs
only to Congress.

1318

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion in Chambers

414 U. S.

The Court in the Prize Cases said:
"By the Constitution, Congress alone has the
power to declare a national or foreign war.... The
Constitution confers on the President the whole Executive power. . . . He has no power to initiate
or declare a war either against a foreign nation or
a domestic State...
"If a war be made by invasion of a foreign nation, the President is notoonly authorized but bound
to resist force by force. He does noCinitiate the
war, but is bound to accept the challenge without
waiting for any special legislative authority." 2
Black 635, 668.
The question of justiciability does not seem substan-.
tial. In the Prize Cases, decided in 1863, the Court
entertained a complaint involving the constitutionality
of the Civil" Wai. In my time we held that President
Truman in the updeclared Korean war had no'power to
seize the steel mills in order to increase war production.
Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. v. Sawyer, 343 U. S. 579:
The Prize Cases and the Youngstown case involved the
seizure of property. But the Government conceded on
oral argument that property is no more important than
life under bur Constitution. Our Fifth Amendment which
curtails federal -power under the Due Process Clause protects 'ife, liberty or property" in -that order. Property
is important, but if President Truman could not seize it
in violation of the Constitution I do not see how any
President can take "life" in-violation of the Constitution.
As to "standing," which my Brother MARSHALL correctly states is an issue, there seems to be no substantial
question that a taxpayer at one time had no standing to
complain of the lawless actions of his Government. But
that rule has been modified. In Flast v. Cohen, 392 U. S.
83, 106, the Court held that a taxpayer could invoke

1319

HOLTZMAN v: SCHLESINGER
1316

Opinion in Chambers

"federal judicial power when he alleges that congressional
action under the taxing and spending clause is in derogation of those constitutional provisions which .operate to
restrict- the exercise of the taxing and spending power."
That case involved alleged violations of the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment. The present case
involves Art. I, § 8, cl. 11, which gives Congress and not
the President- the power to "declare War."
If applicants are correct on the merits they have
standing as taxpayers. The case in that posture is in
the class of those where standing and the merits are
inextricably intertwined. I see no difference, constitutionally speaking, between the standing in Flast and the
standing in the present case for our Cambodian caper
contested as an unconstitutional exercise of presidential
power.
When a stay in a capital case is before us, we do not
rule on guilt or innocence. A decision on the merits
follows and does not precede the stay. If there is doubt
'whether due process has been followed in the procedures,
the stay is granted because death is irrevocable. By the
same token I do not sit today to determine whether the
bombing of Cambodia is constitutional. Some say it is
merely an extension of the "war" in Vietnam, a "war"
which the Second Circuit has held in Berk v. Laird, 429
F. 2d 302, to raise a "political" question, not a justieiablI
one. I have had serious doubts about the correctness of
that decision, but our Court has never passed on the
question authoritatively. I have expressed my doubts
on the merits in various opinions dissenting from denial
of certiorari.t But even if the "war" in Vietnam were
±Sarnoff v. Shultz, 409 U. S. 929; DaCosta v. Laird, 405 U. S.
979; Massachusetts v. Laird, 400 U. S. 886; McArthur v. Clifford,

393 U. S. 1002; Hart v. United States, 391 U. S. 956; Holmes v.
United States, 391 U. S. 936; Mora'v. McNamara, 389 U. S. 934,

935; Mitchell v. United States, 386 U. S. 972.

-

1-320

0OeTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion in Chambers

414 U. S.

assumed to be a .constitutional one, the Cambodian bombing is quite a different.affair. Certainly Congress did not
in terms declare war against Cambodia and there is no
one so reckless to say that the Cambodian -forces are an
imminent and perilous threat to our shores. The briefs
are replete with references to recent Acts of Congress
which, to avoid a presidential veto, were passed to make
clear-as I read them-that no bombing of Cambodia was
to be financed by appropriated funds. after August 15,
1973. Arguably, that is quite different from saying that
Congress has declared war in Cambodia for a limited
purpose and only up to and not beyond August 15, 1973.
If the acts in question are so construed the result would
be, as the District Court said, that the number of votes
needed to sustain a presidential veto-one-third plus
one-would be all that was needed to bring into operation the new and awesome power of a President to declare war. The merits of the present controversy are
therefore, to say the least, substantial, since denial of the
application before me would catapult our airmen as well
as Cambodian peasants into the death zone. I do what
I think any judge would do in a capital case-vacate the
stay entered by the Court of Appeals.
It is so ordered.

