CCAGO v. TAYLOR.
Statement of the Case.

road v. XTwreZ, 110 U. S. 301, 303. NTothing is shown to take
this case out of the general rule. At the time of the infringement, the fundamental questions of the validity and extent of
Tilghman's patent were in earnest controversy and of uncertam issue. Interest should therefore be allowed, as in Illinois
Central .Railroadv. Turrell, just cited, only fr6m the day
when the master's report was submitted to the court, (which.
appears, by the terms of his report and of. the decree below, to
have been October ,1884,) upon the amount shown to be due
by that report and the accompanying evidence.
-Decree reversqd, and case -remanded to the Circuit Choitkdirections to enter a deoree fo the laintiffor tke
sun of $266,153.86, with interest f om October T, 1884,
and costs.
M . CB=EF

JusTin WAiTE dissented.

:MR. JusTion XA'rHws did not sit in this case or take any
part in the decision.

OHICAGO v. TAYLOR.
ROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NOTHERIN DISTRICT OF ILVENOIS.
Wo. 151. Submitted January 31, 188S.-Declded March 19, iSS.

Under the provision in the constitution of the State of flihols adopted Itu
1870 that "private property shall not be taken or dcnaged for public use
without just compensation," a recovery may be had in all cases where
.private property has sustained a substantial Injury from the making and
use of an improvement that is public in its character; whether the damage be direct, as when caused .by trespass or physical invasion of the
property, or consequential as in a diminution of its market value.

TREsPAss oN TH CASE. Judgment for plaintiffs. Defendant
sued out this writ of error. The case is stated in the opinion
of the court.
VOL. c XV-fl

QOTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opimon of the Court.

2Ar. FPrederick,S., linstor and -Mr. .Tohn I.
plaintiff in error.

-Green for

.r. '. George A. Follansbee and ir. Tkomas 21. Hoyne for
defendants in error.
Mm.Jusrion ]IAnrL.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought by X oses Taylor, as owner of an
undivided interest in a lot in Chicago, having sixty feet front
on Lumber Street, one hundred and fifty feet on Eighteenth
Street, and three hundred feet on the South Branch of Ohicago
River, to recover the damages sustained by reason of the construction, by that city, of a viaduct on Eighteenth Street, 'in
the immediate vicinity of said lot. The city did this work
under the power conferred by its charter "to lay out, establish,
open, alter, widen, extend, grade, pave, or otherwise improve
streets, alleys, avenues, sidewalks, wharves, parks, and public
grounds, and vacate the same," and "to construct and keep in
repair bridges, viaducts and- tunnels, and to regulate the use
thereof." It appears that the construction of the viaduct was
directed by special ordinances of the city council.
For many years prior to, as well as at, the time this viaduct
was built, the lot in question was used as a coal yard, having'
upon it sheds, machinery, engines, boilers, tracks, and other
contrivances required in the business of buying, storing, and
selling coal. The premises were long so used, and they were
peculiarly well adapted fo such business. There was evidence
before the jury tending to show that, by reason of the construction of the viaduct, the actual market value of the lot,
,for the purposes for which it was specially adapted, or for any
other purpose for which it was likely to be used, was materially diminished, access to it from Eighteenth Street being
greatly obstructed, and at some points practically cut off, and
that, as a necessary result of this work, the use of Lumber
Street, as a way of approach to the coal yard by its occupants
and buyers, and as a way of exit for teains carrying coal from
the yard to customers, was seriously impaired. There was,
also, evidence tending to show that one of the results of the

CHICAGO v. TAYLOR.
Opinion of the Court.

construction of the viaduct, and the approaches on either side
of it to the bridge over Chicago River, was, that the coal yard
was often flooded with water running on to it from said
approaches, whereby the use of the premises, as a place for

handling and storing coal was greatly interfered with, and
often became wholly impracticable.
On behalf of the city there was evidence tending to show
that the plaintiff did not sustaan any real damage, and that
the inconvemences to occupants of the premises, resulting.from
the construction and maintenance of the viaduct, were common to all other persons in the, vicinity, and could not be the
basis of an individual claim for damages against the city.
There was a verdict and judgment against the city. The
court below having refused to"Iset aside the judgment and
grant a new trial, the case ha been brought here for review
in respect to errors of law which, it is contended, were committed in the admission of incompetent evidence, in the refusal
of instructions asked by the city, and in the charge of the
court to the jury.
Before noticing the assignments of error it will be-well to
ascertain what principles have been announced by this court
.or by the Supreme Court of Illinois in respect to the liability
of municipal or other corporations in that State, for damages
resulting to owners of private property from the alteration or
improvement, under legislative authority, of streets and other
public highways.
By the constitution of Illinois, aaopted in 1848, it was providedthat no man's property shall "'be taken or applied to
public use without just compensation being made to hum."
Art. XIII, § 11. -hile this constitution was in force Chicago
commenced, and substantially completed, a tunnel under Chicago River, along the line of La Salle Street, in that city. It
was sued for damages by the lNorthern Transportation Company, owning a line of steamers runningbetween Ogdensburg,
Nfew York, and Chicago, and also a lot in the latter cityi with
dock and wharfage privileges, the principal injury of which it
complained being that, during the prosecution of the work by
the city, it was deprived of access to its premises, both on the

OCTOBER TERMW, 1887.
Opnon of the Court.

side of the river and on that of the street. This eourt-in
Tavportatio, Co. v. Chicago, 99 U. S. 685, 641 -held that in
making the improvement of which the plaintiff complained
the city was the agent of the State, performing a public duty
imposed by the legislature; and that "persons appointed or
authorized by law to make or improve a highway are not
answerable for consequential damages, if they act within their
jurisdiction, and with care and skill, is a doctr'ue almost
umversally accepted, alike in England and in this country," citing numerous cases, among otliers Smith v. Goiyoration of
Tfraskington, 20 How. 135. "The decisions to which we have
referred," the court continued, "were made.in view of M-agna
Charta, and the restriction to be found in the constitution of
every State, that private property shall not be taken for public
use without just compensation being made. But' acts done in
the proper exercise of governmental powers, and not directly
encroaching upon private property, though their consequences
may impair its use, are universally held nQt to be a taking
within the meaning of the constitutional provision. They do
not entitle the owner of such property to compensation from
the State or its agents, or give him any right of action." This
view, the court further said, was not in conflict with the doctrine announced in PumpeZly v. reen Bay Co., 13 Wall. 166,
which was a case of the permanent flooding of private property, a physical invasion of the real estate of the private
owner, a practical ouster of his possession.
In City of Chieago v. Ramey, 87 Illinois, 348, 363, the Supreme Court of Illinois, upon a full review of previous decisions and especially referring to J3osesv .Pittsurg,.ort Ma'hyne
& Chviago R. R. Co., 21 Illinois, 516; Roberts v. Micago, 26
Illinois, 299; M1aphy v. Chicago, 29 Ilinois, 279, Stone v.
-Fairbury,
Pontiacand _Horthwestern.Rairoad Co., 68 Illinois,
394, Stetom v. The Chicago alnd .Evanston Rail'oad Co., 75
Illinois, 7, and Chicago, Burlington and Quinvy RailroadCo.
v. Winnie, It9 Illinois, 269, held it to have been the settled
law of that State, up to the time of- the adoption of the bonstitution of 1870, that there could be "no recovery by an adjacent property holder, on. streets the fee whereof is in the city,

CHICAGO v. TAYLOR.
Opinion of the Court.

for the merely consequential damages resulting from the character of the improvements made in the streets, provided such
improvement has the sanction of the legislature."
But the present case arose under, and must be determined
with reference to, the constitution of Illinois adopted in 1870,
in which the prohibition against the appropriation of private
property for public use, without compensation, is declared in
different words from those employed m the constitution of 1848.
The provision in the existing constitution is that "private property shall not lie taken or damagedfor public use without just
compensation?' An important inquiry in. the present case is
to the meaning of the word "damaged" in this clause.
The earliest case in Illinois in which this question was first
directly made and considered, is .igney v. CiMy of Mcago, 102
Illinois, 6-, -'4,80. That was an action to recover damages
sustained by the plaintiff by reason of the construction by Chicago of a viaduct or bridge along :Halstead Street and across
Kinzie Street, in that city, some 220 feet west of his premises,
fronting on the latter street. There was no claim that the
plaintiff's possession was disturbed, or that any direct physical
injury was done to his premises by the structure in question.
But the complaint was, that his coimmunication with Halstead
Street, by way of Kinzie Street, had been cut off, whereby he
was deprived of a public right enjoyed by him in connection
with his premises, and an injury inflicted upon him in excess
of that sustained by the public. For that special injury, in excess of the injury done to others, he brought suit. The trial
court peremptorily instructed the jury to find for the city,
holding, in effect, that the fee of the streets being in the city
there could be no recovery for the obstruction of which the
plaintiff domplained.
That judgment was reversed, an elaborate opinion being
•delivered; reviewing the principal cases under the Constitution
of 1848, and referring to *the,adjudications in the courts of
other States upon the general question as to what amounts to
a taking of private property for p blfc use within the meaning
of such a provision as that contained m the former Constitution of Illinois. After alluding to the decisions of other state

OCTOBER TERI, 1887.
Opinin of the Court.

courts to the effect that such a provision extended only to an
actual appropriation of property by the State, and did not
embrace consequential injuries, although what was done
resulted,j.gubstantially, in depriving the owner of its use, the
SupremneCourt of Illinois reviewed numerous cases determined
by it under the Constitution of 1848. lHevin8 v. City of
Peona, 41 Illinois, 502, decided in 1866; Gillam v. 3fiadison
County Railroad,49 Illinois, 481; CiMy of Aurora v. Gillett,
56 Illinois, 132, Auzrora v. Reed, 5-7 Illinois, 29; City of
Jacksonvile v. 1ambert, 62 Illinois, 519, Toledo, TWabask & o.
Railroadv. .forrison-, 71 Illinois, 616. It says: "Whatever,
therefore, may be the rule in other States, it clearly appears
from this review of the cases that previous to, and at the time
of the adoption of the present Constitution., it was the settled
doctrine of this court that any actual physical injury to private
property by reason of the erection, construction, or operation
of a public improvement in -or along a public street or highway, whereby its appropriate use or enjoyment was materially.
interrupted, or its value substantially impaired, was regarded
as a taking of private property, within the meaning of the
Constitution, to the extent of the damages thereby occasioned,
and actions for such injuries were uniformly sustained."
Touching the provision in the Constitution of 1870, the
court said that the framers of that instrument evidently had
in view the giving of greater security to private rights by
giving relief in cases of hardship not covered by the preceding
Constitution, and for that purpose extended the right to coinpensation to those whose property had been "damaged" for
public use, that the introduction of that word, so far from
being supeifluous or accidental, indicated a deliberate purpose
to make a change in the organic law of the State, and abolished the old test of direct physical injury to the corpus or
subject of, the property affected. The new rule of civil
conduct, introduced by the present Constitution, the c6 urt
adjudged, required compensation in all cases where it appeared
"there has been some physical disturbance of a right, either
public or private, which the plaintiff enjoys in.
connectionwith,
h-ispropmeoty, and which gives to it an additional value, and

CHICAGO v. TAYLOR.
Opinion of the Court.

that by reason of such disturbance be has sustained a special
damage with respect to his property in excess of that sustained
by the public generally." The chief justice concurred in the
judgment, and in the general views expressed by the court,
holding that while the owner of a lot on a street held it.
subject to the right of the public to improve it in any ordinary and reasonable mode deemed wise and beneficial by the
proper public functionaries, he was entitled, under the consti"tution-of 18TO, to compensation in case of a sudden and
extraordinary change in the grade of the street or highway,
whereby the value of his property is in fact impaired. Three
of the justices of the state court dissented.
As we understand the previous cases of Pekim v. Birereton,
67 Illinois, 47T; Pekzz. v. inkel, 77 Illinois, 56; Shawneetown v. Xlson, 82 Illinois, 337, Ekjlg v. EafonM, 83 Illinois,
535 ; and Staick v. Bt. lrouis, 85 Illinois, 377,--all of which
t'hey proarose under the present Constitution of Illino1igney
in
expressed
ceeded upon the same grounds as thoso
distinctly
court
v. Chwago, although in no one of them did the
declare how far the present Constitution differed from the
former, m respect to the matter now before us.
At the same term. when Rigney's case was decided the state
court had occasion to consider this question as presented in. a
somewhat different aspect. The Union Building Association
owned a building and lot three and a half blocks from a
certain part of La, Salle Street in Chicago, which the city
proposed to close up, and permit to be occupied by the Board
of Trade with its building. As the streets adjacent to the
plaintiff's property were to remain in the same condition as
to width, etc.,_ that they -were in before, and as the closing
up of a portion of La Salle Street would not, in any degree,
interfere with access to its lot, or with the use and enjoyment
of it, it was held ,that there was no special or particular injury
done for which an action would lie against the city. That
case was distinguished from Rigney v. C7ldcago, in this, that
in the latter case the court held that "property holders
bordering upon streets have, as an incident to their ownership of.such property, a right of access by way of the streets,

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

which cannot be taken away or materially npaired by the
city, without incurring legal liability to the extent of the
damages thereby occasioned." City of Chkcago v. UTnion,
Buiing Assooiatioi, 102 Illinois, 379, 397.
In Chicago & Vqtern Indiana .Railroadv Agjre, 106 Illinois, 518, the court- all, the justices concurring- observed:
"It isneedless to say our decisions have not been harmonious
on this question, but in the case of R'igney v. City of Chicago,
102 Illinois, 64, there was a fall review of the decision of our
courts, as well as the courts of Great Britain, under a statute
containing a provision similar to the provision in our Constitution. The conclusion there reached was, that under this
constitutional provision a recovery may be had an all cases
where private property has sustained a substantial damage
by the making and using an improvement that ispublic in
its character -that .it does not require that the damage shall
be caused by a trespass, or an actual physical invasion of the
owner's real estate, but if the construction and operation of
the railroad or other improvement is the cause of the damage,
though consequential, the party may recover. We regard
that case as conclusive of this question. The case of Pitsurg
& -Fort Mayne Bairoad Co. v. 1ezch, 101 Ilinois, 157, isan
point on this question of dama&es, and the case of City of
C9iicago v. Untion BW.Uiing Association, 102 Illinois, 379, also
reviews the authorities and approves the doctrine an Bigney
v. Chcago, o'ipra. These cases, .therefore, overrule the doc.
trines of the earlier cases." Our attention has not been called
to, nor are we aware of, any subsequent decision of the State
court giving the Constitution of 1870 an interpretation different from that indicated in Rigney v. C7icago and Chicago etc.
Railroad Co. v. Ayes. We concur in that interpretation.
The use of the word (Idamaged" in the clause providing for
compensation to owners of private property, appropriated to
public use, could have been with no other intention than that
expressed by the state court. Such a change in the organic
law of the State was not meaningless. But it would be meaningless 'if it should be adjudged that the constitution 6f 1870
gave no additional or greater security to private property,

CHICAGO v. TAYLOR.
Opmion of the Court.

sought to be appropriated to public use, than was guaranteed
'by the former constitution.
The charge to the jury by the learned judge who presided
at the trial gave effect to the principles announced m the foregoing cases arising under the present constitution of Illinois.
It covered every vital question m the case, in language so well
guarded that the jury could not well have misunderstood the
exact issue to be tried, or the proper bearing of all the evidence.
So far as the special requests for instructions in behalf of the
city contained sound propositions of law they -were fully embodied in the charge to the jury.
In behalf of the city it was contended that, if liable at all,
it was only liable for such damage as was done to the market
value of the property by rendering access to it difficult or mconvenient. The court said, in substance, to the jury that the
flooding of the lot by water running down upon it from the
approaches to the viaduct was an element of damage which
they might consider; though if such flooding merely caused
inconvenience to the occupant in the conduct of his business,
such as his coal getting wet or its becoming more difficult to
keep his scales properly adjusted, these were not elements of
impairment to the value of the property for purposes of sale.
The jury were also instructed that although the occupant may
have found it difficult to haul coal out of *thelot, and although
it may have been much more unprofitable to conduct the business of selling coal at this lot, that did not weigh upon the
question as to the value of the lot in the market. Other observations were made to the jury, but the court, in different forms

of expression, said to them that the question was whether, by
reason of the construction of the viaduct, the value, that is,
the market price, of the property had been diminished. The
scope of the charge is fairly indicated in the following extract:
"The real question is, has the value of this property to sell or
rent been diminished by the construction of this viaduct 9 It
may be that it can no longer be used for the purposes of a coal
yard, or for any purpose for which it has heretofore been used,
but that would not be material ift it can be rented or sold at as
good a price for other purposes, except that if the proof satis-

OCTOBER TERMi,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

fies you that any of the permanent improvements put on the
Idt for the particular business which has been heretofore carried
on there and for which it was improved, have been impaired
in value, or are not worth as much after this viaduct was built
and the bridge was raised as before, and you can from the
proof determine how much these improvements are damaged,
the plaintiff would be entitled to recover for such damage to
the improvements -that is to say, this lot being improved for
a specific purpose, if the proof satisfies you that it can no
longer be rented or used for that purpose, and that thereby
these improvements have been lost or impaired in value, then
the impairment of value to these improvements is one of the
elements of damage which the plaintiff is entitled to have considered and passed upon and included in his damage."
It would serve no useful purpose to examine in detail all the
requests for instructions, and compare them with the charge,
or discuss the questions arising upon exceptions to the admission of evidence.
After a careful consideration of all the
propositions advanced for the city, we are unable to discover
any substantial error committed to its prejudice. It may be,
as suggested by its counsel, that the present constitution of
Illinois, in regard to compensation to owners of private property "damaged" for the public uie, has proved a serious obstacle to municipal improvements; that the sound policy of the
old rule, that private property is held subject to any consequential damages that may.armse from the erection on a public
highway of a lawful skracture, is being constantly vindicated;
and that the constitutional provision in question is "a handicap" upon municipal improvement of public highways. And
it may, also, be, as is suggested, doubtful whether a constitutional convention could now be convened that would again
incorporate in the organic law the emsting provision in regard
to indirect or consequential damage to private property so far
as The same is caused by public improvements. We dismiss
these several suggestions with the single observation that they
can be addressed more properly to the people of the State in
support of a proposition to change their constitution.
We perceive no error in the record, and the jidgment is

