CLEMENT v. PACKER.
Syllabus.

From the clear and full statement, in the opini6n of the
court, of the case and of the controversies before the L~and
Department, involving the same questions now presented,
there can be but one conclusion, and that Is, that the decree
below dismissing the bill was in consonance with justice and
right.

CLEMENT -v. PACKER.
ERROR TO TBM

CMUr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

W.ESTEWR

DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 143. Argued January 23, 24, 188.-DecIded March 19,1888.

An assignment, as error, that the court below rejected certain patents of
land offered in evidence by the plaintiff Is fatally defective, if the record
does not contain copies of the patents.
In an action of ejectment in a Circuit Court of. the United States, sitting
in the State of Pennsylvania, which involves a question concerning the
location of the boundary of a private estate, that rale of evidence
respecting the admission of d&clarations of deceased persons touching
the disputed boundary which is laid down by the highest court of that
State is the rule to govern the action of the Circuit Court at the trial;
and it is well settled in that State that declarations of a deceased person
touching the locality of a boundary which was surveyed and located by
him, which declarations were made td the witness in pointing out that
localitg, are admissible in evidence.
Hunnzcutt v. Peyton, 102-1". S. 333; and .Bllicott v. Pearl,10 Pet. 412, distinguished.
In Pennsylvania, original marks and livwngmonuments are the highest proof
of the location of a survey; the calls for adjoining surveys are the next
most important evidence of it; and it is only m the absence of both that
corners and distances returned by the surveyor to the land office -determine it.
Surveys constituting a block are not treated in Pennsylvania as separate
and individual surveys, but are to be located together as a block on one
large tract; and if the lines and corners of the block can be found, this
fixes its location, as they lVelong to each and every tract of the blobk as
much as they do to the particular tract whichi thoy adjoin.
When the location of a survey m Pennsylvania can be determined by its
own marks upon the ground, or by its own calls, courses, and distances,
it cannot be changed or controlled by the marks or lines of an adjoining
juntor survey; but when, by reason of the disappearance "of.these

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.
original landmarks from the senior survey, the location of a line or the
identity of a corner is uncertain and is drawn in controversy, then
original and well established marks found upon a later survoy, made
by the same surveyor about the same time, and adjoining the one in
dispute, are admissible-not to contest or control the matter-but to
elucidate it and thus aid the jury in discovering the location of the
senior survey.
After the lapseof tventy-one years from the return of a survey in Pennsylvania, the presumption is that the warrant was located as returned by
the surveyor to the land office, and in tle absence of rebutting facts, the
official courses and distances determine the location of the tract; but
this presumption is not-conclusive, and may be rebutted by proof of the
existence of marked lines and monuments, nd other facts tending to
show that the actual location on the ground was different from the
official courses and distances.

THE court stated the case as follows
The pliantif below, Packer, brought an action of ejectment-

to recover from the defendant below, Clement, one hundred
and twenty acres of land located in M[ount Carmel Township,
Northumberland County, Pennsylvana. He claimed this 120
acres as part of a .tract of land surveyed m October, 1,791,
under a warrant dated 26th of November, 1793, issued in the
name of William Elliott, the title to which was in hin, the
plaintiff. On the trial he adduced evidence, showing that
this William Elliott tract was one of six tracts of a block of
surveys -a term which, under the Pennsylvania land system,
means 4 series of surveys made by one surveyor at the same
time upon warrants issued upon the same day, owned by the
same person, dependent upon each other in succession, calling
for each other, and returned to the land office at the same
time, and so located-on the ground that the tracts each adjoin
the other side by side as a body. In that State the warrant
and survey thereon and the return of the survey constituted
the legal ii.ode of acquiring. lands from the Commonwealth.
The block just mentioned was known as the ]e Fevre block,
and the tracts composing it were designated by the names of
the persons to whom they were warranted, as follows: The
Ebenezer Branham, Nathaniel Brown, Lewis Walker, William
Shannon, William Elliott, and the Toseph Tyson, all of which

CLEMENT v. PACKER.
Statement of the Case.

were dated November 26, 1793, surveyed on the 21st and 22d
days of October; 179., and returned into the laud office by
William Gray, deputy surveyor, February 23, 1-795.
The plaintiff claimed that the northern boundary of this
tract was identical with the southern line of the defendant's
tracts, and that such southern boundary was about 60 rods
further-north than that claimed by the defendant, and dbwn
to which he was in actual possession. The question in the
case, as exhibited by the record, is one of looation, the burden
of proof being on the plaintiff below to show the lopation of
the northern boundary of the William Elliott-tract, and that
the 120 acres m dispute are within the limits of that tract.
The plaintiff below produced evidence showing that the
tracts claimed and possessed by the defendant lying directly
north of the William Elliott tract were known as the Mary
Myers and Charlotte Ruston tracts, and were two of a block
of eleven tracts, surveyed under warrants,-all dated June 11,
1793, granted in the name of Daniel Reese, Charlotte Ruston,
Mary Myers, John Reynolds, Thomas Billington, Mary Ruston,
Thomas Ruston, Mary Ruston Jr., John Young, Joshua Bean,
and Samuel Lobdil, surveyed on the 2d and 3d of October.
1193, and returned to the land office by William Gray, deputy
surveyor, as one block, on the 3d of March, 1794; and thal
thee eleven tracts of land (which were known as the Brush
Valley block) extended along the Le Ferre block on the north.
and were specially named in the official returns of the surveyk.
of the latter as adjoining on the north.
He contended that the northern line of the William Elliott
tract was identical with the southern line of the Charlotte
Ruston and Mary Myers tracts; that his right, therefore.
extended as far north as the southern line described in the
official returns of those tracts; and that the true mode of
ascertaining such southern line was to run out the lines of said
tracts according to courses, distances, and calls. in the official
returns of the original surveys. Re showed by the returns
and by the evidence of surveyors that the southern line thus
located by official courses, distances, and calls would leave the
land in dispute outside of the defendant's tracts, and therefore

oCT23TOB

TEU'g, 1887.

tle Case.
Statement df

Stateaeat

CaSe.
etbe

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

within the limits of the' William Elliott tract belonging to
the plaintiff below. He produced A. B. Cochran, a surveyor,
who in the winter of 1881 and the spring of 1882 had made
an examination of the Brush. Valley land in connection with
that of the JLe Fevre block.
This witness testified that he found the northern boundary
of the Brush Valley block well defined by marks still existing
on the ground made at the time of the original survey in 1793,
and many of the living corners (trees) standing in the places
designated in the official return; and that the lines of the different tracts corresponded pretty nearly with the official courses
and distances, "sometnes a little bit long, and sometimes a
little bit short;" in one instance as many as 18 .rods difference.
He stated, very- positively, that along the entire southern side
of the block there were no marks upon the ground; no living
corners, except one hereafter noted; no indication of any
work, whatever, by the deputy surveyor m 1793; and that the
official returns of the survey called only for .posts for corners,
with the exception just mentioned, which fact he stated was
regarded by surveyors as evidence that the line had never been
actually located on the ground, but simply-protracted on paper.
He stated further that there were no division lines actually
run between any of the tracts of this Brush Valley block, except one, and that line was between the John Reynolds and
the Thomas Billington tracts, which he stated was-well marked
upon the ground to a stone heap, which very- nearly corresponded by course and distance with the corner called for in
the official return of the surveys of these two tracts, and designated therein as a small maple tree, at the southeast corner
of thg Reynolds tract, and the southwest corner of the Billington tract. This stone heap had beeT. made as a mark m 184W,
and located as the maple corner thus called for, by David
Rockefeller, a surveyor, since deceased.
The deposition of David Rockefeller, taken on a former
trial, was then read in evidence to show the location of this
small maple tree called for as the common corner of .the Reynolds and Billington tracts, (southeast of the one and southwest
of the other,) in which Rock~efeller testifies that in surv6ying

CLEMENT .v. PACKER.

Statement of the Case.

these lands in 184:7 he found the line between these two tracts
(the Reynolds and the Billington) well defined upon the ground
by marks made at the time of the original survey in 1793, and
that he found in running from the northern corner, according
to the official courses, at the end of the official distance, a small
maple stump and maple sprouts growing&around it, and a small
maple tree lying on the ground, the trunk of wnch was burned
entirely away for 6 or -7 feet, so that no surveyor's mark could
be found upon it. The testimony of Cochran and others was
to the same effect, and they all gave it as their opinion that
this was the true location of the maple tree called for as the
common corner of the Reynolds and Billington tracts.
He also showed, by the testimony of these and other witnesses, that if tins maple stump was the true location of the
maple tree called for as the southeast corner of the Reynolds
and the southwest of the Billington, it would establish the
southern line of the whole Bruih Valley block; and by running it east and west from that point, according to the courses
and distances, the land in controversy would be outside of the
Mary Mtyers and Charlotte Ruston tracts owned by the defendant below, and within the limits of the Elliott .tract belonging
t6 the plaintiff below.
The plaintiff below further contended that in case the maple
stump, which he claimed to have proved to be the maple tree
called for in the official return,, was not proveal to be such
corner, then the whole southern boundary was protracted on
paper without any actual survey being done upon the ground,
and in the absence of any marks whereby such southern boundary could be definitely fixed, the true mode of ascertaining
its location, as determined by the deputy surveyor in 1793,
was to start from the well-marked boundary on the north,
and run out the lines according to the official courses and distances.
In reply, the defendant contended that the true mode of
ascertaining the lines of a survey was to run them according
to the marks and monuments on the ground made by *the
surveyor at the time of the survey, along with the lines and
distances of the official return, when these latter corresponded

-

OCTOBER TERAI,

1887.

Statement of .the Case.

with such marks and monuments upon the ground, but in case
of a conflict or variance, the original marks and monuments
were to prevail and determine the location of the survey.
He denied that the southern line of the Brush Valley block
had beenulattea on paper, and alleged, on the contrary, that
'it was ran at the time of the original survey, and marked upon
the ground far enough south of ttp line contended for by the
plaintiff to include the 120 acres in dispute within the limits
of the Charlotte Ruston and. Mary -Myers tracts. He introduced M9. B. Trescott, and several other surveyors, who testified
that the point located by Rockefeller, as the maple tree corner
called for at the end of the Reynolds and Billington dividing
line, was seveftl perches north of the official distance, and several perches outside of the official'courses. He had read from
the deposition of Rockefeller, already offered by the plaintiff,
the.statement that he, Iockefeller, had been county surveyor
of Northumberland County for 16 or 18 years, and that he
knew from the official papers in his hands, during that period,
that one Henry Donnel was at the time these surveys were
made a regular deputy surveyor of William Gray, and that his
(Donnel's) district embraced all this side. of the river, including
the Shamokin and Yount Carmel coal regions, where the surveys are that are involved in this controversy.
To show the true location of the maple at the common corner of the Reynolds and Billington tracts to be 60 rods south
of where Rockefeller had claimed to locate it, he offered in
evidence the depo.sition of John Fisher, deceased, taken in
several cases pending in the Common "Pleas Court of Northumberland County, between the plaintiff in error and the
Northumberland CoaJ Companiy in 1878, it having been admitted that John Fisher was dead. This deposition was
offered to prove by John Fisher that in 1815 Henry Donnel
was surveying the Brush Valley lines, and he, Fisher. was
with him as chain-carrier. That When they were running the
line between the fBillington and Reynolds tracts, and were at
a point about 60 rods south of the stump located by Rockefeller at a swamp, they found a stone corner - ",stones piled
up." Donnel said - "This is the corner; here is where we
located these warrants 2A or 22 years ago."

CLEMENT v. PACKER.
Statement of the Case.

The plaintiff below objected to the admission of these declarations of Henry Donnell. The court sustained the objections and rejected those portions .of the deposition embraced
in brackets, and sealed the bill of exceptions at the instance of
the defendant.
The portions rejected are as follows: Donnel said: ["While
there at the corner, 21 or 22 years ago, we located these warrants." When we got to the corner, Mr: Donnel said: "Here
is the corner," pointing to it.] [All Donnel said was: "This
is the corner; here is where we located these watrants 21 or
22 years ago." This was when we were runmng the line between the Billington and Reynolds. Donnel'said it was the
line. I knew it was the line.] And again: [At the time
Henry Donnel said He located these warrants, 21 or 22 years
ago, he was- surveying the Brush Valley lands -I mean the
Ira Clement lands.]
The defendant also mtroduced several surveyors who testified to the fact of original marks east of and in a direct line
with the point at which he claimed the maple stood, and also
to two other line trees bearing the marks of the survey of
1793, showing that the southern boundary of the Brush Valley
landsis from thirty- to sixty rods below that contended for by
the plaintiff below.
In confirmation of this being the true location of the line in
question, the defendant below showed from the evidence
elicited on cross-examination of a witness for.the plaintiff, and
also by numerous surveyors who appeared.as witnesses for the
defendant, that the Ebenezer Branham (which was the extreme
eastern and controlling, warrant of the Le Fevre block) had
still existing on its northern boundary authentic and original
marks and monuments made at the time of the survey, and
answering to the 6fficial calls thereof, nearly all of whom testified that these marks thus defining the northern boundary of
the Ebenezer Branham tract were sufficient to estabish the
eratire northern boundary of the :le Fevre block, which northern boundary, they stated, would be identical with the southern line of the Brush Valley block, located as claimed by the
defendant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

To give additional support to his'theory of constructing the
dividing line in question he put in evidence the lo'cation of two
surveys outside of the Brush Valley block, made by the same
surveyor about the same time, whose established lines and corners he proposed to show were in perfect harmony with the
location of the Brush Valley block contended for by the
defence. It appeared in evidence that the first of these surveys was warranted to one Francis West, surveyed on the
10th day of September, 1793, located east and within a mile
of the Brush Valley block, and that its lines, boundaries, corners, and calls were established by original undisputed monumnts on the ground. It was also proved that the other tract
.was warranted to one Richard Martin, and surveyed on the
23d day of February, 1794, and called to adjoin the Francis
West on the east and the Samuel Lobdil on the west, this
last being the extreme eastern tract of the Brush Valley
block It also appeared in evidence that the eastern line of the
Lobdil and the western of the Martin were reported by the
return to be of the same length.
The surveyors, hereinbefore referred to as witnesses for the
plaintiff, state That the Francis West and the Richard Martin
have a common corner the southwest of the former, and
southeast of the latter; that this corner is also called for as
a mark on the northern line of the Ebenezer Branham, as
above noted, that, starting from this recognized corner, called
for by the three surveys, (the Francis West, the Richard Martin, and the Ebenezer Branham,) and following the southern
line of the Richard Martin, (which is also the northern line of
the Ebenezer Branham tract, and which all the surveyors, on
b.oth sides, testify is marked by monuments counting back
to 1793, for a distance of 150 perches,) in its official courses
and distances, it intersects the common line between the Lobdil and Martin tracts extended 32 perches south of its official
length; that at this point of intersection there is a well-established corner common to the Martin and Lobdil tracts; that.if
the southern line of the Brush Valley block was run, starting
from this southeast corner of the Lobdil tract, according to
the official courses and distances, it would be carried actually

CLEMENT v. PACKER.
Statement of the Case.

upon the line claimed by the defendant below, indicated by
the marked line trees and monuments, and strike the point
at which he claimed the maple corner was located in the edge
of the swamp; and therefore would place the laud in controversy without the Ellidtt tract, and within the Oharlotte-Ruston and Mary Myers surveys.
He also introduced evidence to show that the eleven surveys
of the *Brush Valley block and the Richard Martin survey
were all in the hands of the deputy surveyor at the same
time, and that the deputy returned the Richard Martin into
the land office before the return of the Brush Valley lands,
stating that its western line was 320 rods in length; and three
days after returned the Samuel Lobdil, giving it the same
course and length of line.

These witnesses expressed the opinion, from their experiena as .surveyors, that the northern line of therRichard Martin was run on the ground at the same time as the Brush
Valley block of surveys; that the dividing line between the
Brush Valley block and the Le Fevre block of surveys should
be located from the work done by the same deputy surveyor
on the adjoining surveys; and that these monuments pointed
out the line run by the deputy surveyor in 1't93. The defendant below therefore contended that what the surveyor
did, in locating the Richard Martin and the Francis West
surveys, should be considered with all the other evidence in
the case, in determining the question whether the southern
line of the Brush Valley block was actually run upon the
ground or not, and, if so, where it was run.
The plaintiff below offered rebutting testimony tending to
show that the trees relied on by the defendant below, as line
:trees and original monuments of the survey in 1793, bore no
such marks, and that no such monuments for the southern
boundary of the Brush Valley block could be found, or ever
existed on the ground. He contended also that the Martin.
being a jumor survey to that of the Brush Valleyblock, could
not be used for the purpose of locating the southern line of
the latter.
lumerous exceptions were taken during the trial, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

exceptions were~ also'taken to the charge of the court. The
jury xeturned a verdict for the -plaintiff below, upon which
judgment was rendered. The defendant below then sued out
this writ of error.
.X.
. P. WVovertoan and .r.
tiff in error.

_MP. Jame8 Ryon and
error.

.

2 pank

B. Gowen for plain-

John. TF. -yon for defendant in

Mr- Jusno Tm. n, after stating the facts in the foregoing
language, delivered the opimon of the court.

The first assignment of error is to the effect that the court
below erred in rejecting the offer of the plaintiff in error of
six patents issued by the Commonwealth to Peter Granl for
the Joseph Tyson, William -Eliott, Lewis Walker, William
Shannon, Nbfathaniel Brown, and Ebenezer Branham surveys,
bearing date the 12th, 13th and 17tl of April, 1797, respectively, for the purpose of locating, and showing that the
Commonwealth confirmed the location of said surveys as
a block, by granting patents to each one of them, and for
the purpose of showing how much land the Commonwealth
granted in pursuance of these several surveys.
Objection by plaintiff below to this was sustained, and exception taken. The plaintiff in error, however, has not embodied copies of these patents in the record returned. The
court is therefore left uninformed as to the contents of the
patents, or as to their materiality. What effect might have
been given to this assignment of errors, had evidence of the
contents of the patents mentioned been sent up with the
record, we need not consider in disposing of this case. It is
-sufficient to say that this assignment of error is fatally defective for the reason given above, and it cannot be sustained.
The second specification relates to the rejection by the court
of a portion of the deposition of Tohn Fisher, referred to in
the above statement. We gather from the brief of counsel

CLEMENT v. PACKER.
Opinion of the Court.

that the ground on which these declarations were ruled out
was, that they were not within any of the exceptions to the
general rule, that hearsay evidence is inadmissible to establish
any specific fact which in its nature is capable of being proved
by the testimony of a person who speaks from his own knowledge.
In .Nima Queemn v. Hoyurn, 7 Crauch, 290, 296, Chief Justice Mffarshall says: "To this rule there .are some exceptions
which are said to be as old as the rule itself. These are cases
of pedigree, of prescription, of custom, and in some cases of
boundary. . . . Also matters of general and public history."
Upon the subject of boundary-there is a general agreement
that, by the" English rule, evidence of the declarations of deceased persons as to the boundary of parishes, manors, and the
like, which are o public interest, is admissible, but that such
evidence is inadmissible for the purpose of proving the boundary of a, private estate, unless such boundary is identical with
another of public interest... In many of the States this strict
rule has been extended, and these declarations have been admitted to prove the boundaries of lands of private persons.
This extension of the rule has, we think, been sustained by the
weight of authority in the American state courts, as justified
upon grounds as strong as those on which the original rule
rests.
:Nr. Justice McLean states one of these grounds. In Boardmm v. eeses of Reed, 6 Pet. 328, 341, he says; "That
boundaries may be proved by hearsay testimfony is a rule well
settled; and the necessity or propriety of which is not now
questioned. Some6 difference of opinion may exist as to the
application of this rule, but there can be none as to its legal
force. Landmarks are frequently formed of perishable materials. . . . By the improvement of the country, and from
othet causes, they are often destroyed. It is therefore important, in many cases, that hearsay or reputation should be
received to establish ancient boundaries." This was a case of
private boundaries purely, and the declarations were rejected.
not upon the ground of hearsay, but because they were co.
VOL. c2Lv-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

sidered as immaterial and not tending to elucidate' any question before the jury.
The limitations upon this extension of the original rule are
different indifferent States. Ve do not deem it necessary, in
the present case, to lay down any definite rule applicable to
all cases, as to when declarations of deceased persons constitute valid evidence to establish private boundaries.
The question is one involving the ownership of real property in Pennsylvania, and it becomes our duty to ascertain the
rule established in that State, especially as respects the admissibility of the declarations of deceased surveyors in cases of
boundaries between private estates.
In the case of 0awfma

v. Pre8bYyiera Cogregatiom of

Cedzr _ryng, 6 Binney, 59, the plaintiff claaimed a certain
number of acres which were surveyed by one Wilson, an assistant of the deputy surveyor, since deceased. The deputy surveyor returned to the land office a smaller quantity than was
contained in Wilson's actual survey. On the trial of the case
evidence of what was said by Wilson was objected to by the
defendant upon the ground .that the official return of the. survey was the best evidence of the survey. The evidence was
held by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania to have been rightly
received. Chief Justice Tilghman said: "It will be recollected
that Wilson is dead; otherwise nothing less than his own oath
could have been received* Where boundary is the subject,
what has been 8aic7 by a deceased person is received as evidence. It forms an exception to the general rule. It was
necessary for the plaintiffs to show their possession of the
lands. . . . It was impossible for the plaintiffs to show
the extent of their possession, without showing the lines run
by Wilson. Those lines were the plaintiffs' boundaries. at
least such was their claim. It appears to me, therefore, that
what was said by Wilson came within the exception which
admits the words of a deceased person to be given in evidence
m a matter of boundary." pp. 62, 63.
In Xennedy v. ZubloZld, 88 Penn. St. 246, the declarations of
a deceased surv'eyor, made thirty-five years before the trial,
were allowed to go to the jury, but the court below, 'i charg-

CLEMENT v. PACKER.
Ophion of the Court.

ing the jury as to the nature and force of this evidence, used
the following language: "There is evidence of what Herring-

ton or some burveyor said when he went to this tract corner.
That is hearsay evidence, and we admitted that with a good
deal of reluctance. We hardly believe'it is evidence. We
say to you, in determining that evidence, it is weak evidence.
It is not as strong evidence as that of witnesses who come
here upon the witness stand and submit -to cross-examinatin
In testifying to what is the true corner from the very necessity
of the case." The case being carried up by a writ of error to
the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, Ohief Justice Agnew
delivered the opinion of the court, and said. "These two cases
were argued together. They seem to have been tried upon
thf doctrine of leaving first principles, and going on to perfection. But old surveys are not to be so tested. Most perfect in the beginning, they are constantly undergoing change
and decay, until by wind, fire, rottenness, and the acts and
frauds of men, their evidences lie only in memory and hearsay. Hence when the learned judge said of the acts of the
surveyors, who forty years before went upon the ground, ran
the lines, blocked the trees, counted the growths, found original marks, and pronounced the hickory the numbered corner
of donation lot 1No. 1260, it was mere hearsay, he hardly believed it evidence, admitted it with reluctance, and it was
weak evidence in determining, he clearly misled the jury.
The reverse is true-the evidence was strong, and ought to
prevail unless clearly rebutted, by showing either a mistake
of the witness relating the facts, or error in the surveyors
making the declaration. . . . The declarations as to the
corners when found, blocked, and counted were a part of the
res gesta, and so far from being doubtful evidence were competent and always admitted when the transaction is old and the
surveyor dead." p. 255.
In Zramer v. Goodlander, 98 Penn. St. 366, the witness
having testified that lie had owned the land in dispute thirty
yeara before the trial, and employed one Ferguson, a surveyor
since dead, to trace the lines, it was offered to prove what
Goodlander said as to the lines whilst he was on the ground

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

searching for them. This was rejected as purely hearsay.
Justice Trunkey, delivering the opinion of the court, said:
"From an early day in this State, in litigations respecting
boundaries, it has been competent to prove, after the death of
a surveyor wio had examined a line, what, he said respecting
it at the time and on the ground...
The offer should
have been admitted."
. In .MoCamvulad v. Flemiung, 63 Penn. St. 36, S8, Justice
Agnew, delivering- the opinion of the court, said: "Pedigree
and boundary are the excepted cases, wherein reputation and
hearsay of deceased persons are received 'as evidence. The
statements of deceased persons relative to boundaries of -which
they spoke fom actual personal knowledge have been fre- quently received as evidence in this State2
There is one case in which the principles of this rule of hearsay evidence in respect to boundaries were fully considered in
the Circuit Court of 'the United States. Com v. Penn, 1
Peters 0. 0. 496. The opinion of the court was delivered
by Mir. Justice ,Vashington, and the substance of it fs as follows (p. 511): The courses and distances laid down in a sirvey, especially if it be ancient, are never, in practice, considered as conclusive, but are liable to be materially changed
by oral proof, or other evidence, tending to prove that the
documentary lines are those not actually run.
Reputed
boundaries are often proved by the testimony of aged witnesses, and the hearsay evidence of such witnesses has been
admitted to establish such lines, in opposition to the calls of
an ancient patent. It is not the lines reported, but the lines
which have been actually run by the surveyor, which vests, in
a patentee a title t the area included within those lines.
These decisions clearly require the admission 'of the testimony rejected by the court below, and the decisions cited by
the counsel for defendant in error also seem to us in harmony
with the"tenor and effect of them.
The case of Bender v. Pitzer, 27 Penn. St. 333, 335, is an
interesting case in its examination of the qualifications and
some of the aspects of this mle. The declarations of a deceased surveyor who had not made the original survey, nor

CLEMENT v. PACKER.
Opinion of the Court.

subsequently exannned it, nor run the lines upon the ground,
and who was not an adjoining owner, and did not point out
the lines at the time of those declarations, were held to be
rightfully rejected. But Justice Knox, while rejecting the
evidence, took especial care to reiterate the principles laid
down in the cases heretofore cited. In delivering the opinion
of the court he said: 11It has long since been settled, both in
this country and in England, that ancient boundaries are provable by general reputation, in a question involving public
rights. In Pennsylvania a still greater latitude has been allowed in questions of boundary. Here the declarations of a
dec.eased person touching the locality of boundary between
adjoining owners have been admitted where the survey was
made by the person madng the declaration, or where the dec--laration was made by an adjoining owner, who pointed out
the boundary line between the tracts to the witness at the
time the declarations were made."
a ufma v. Congregation
of Cedar pring, 6 Binney, 59, H~amilt rn v. Menar, 2 S. &
R. 70.
To sustain the rejection of the evidence much reliance is
placed on the decisions of this court in the cases of H-unnioutt
v. _Peyt n, 102 U.. S. 333, and -EZlicott v. Pearl,10 Pet. 412.
But as the question is one of Pennsylvania law, to be controlled by Pennsylvania decisions, the observations of the
court, in the cases cited, are not pertinent.
The first of these cases states the English rule, and summarizes some of the results to be deduced from the decisions
of the 'state tribunals. The court concedes that, had the
Supreme Court of Texas decided differently, it would have
felt constrained to apply the Texas rule to the case m question; but even under the summary of the general law in this
country, as it was conceived to exist on the subject at that
time, the 1vidence re3ected in the present case ought to have
been received. It is not necessary for us to approve or disapprove the departures from the original rule, because the court
held that the evidence there offered was not admissible under
any well-established exceptions to the rule. The court is par-ticular to say the declarations of M1oore were made, not when

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

he was pointing out the boundaries of the Basquez survey, but
when he was at a distance from the place of beginning of that
survey and from its upper ihue. That Moore had made the
survey, or had ever been upon its upper line, or on the upper
line of the reserve, was proved only by his assertion, which
the court allowed to be given in evidence. There was no such
proof aliunde.
The case of .Elliaott v. Pearl,
was
wup-a,
brought to tins
court by a writ of error in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Kentucky. And, in the decision
here, this court adhered to the English rule, and rejected the
evidence of the'declaration of a deceased surveyor, as to the
boundary of a private estate. In so doing, this court was
simply enforcing the rule as'it existed in Kentucky at that
time. In Cherry v. Boyd, Litt. Sel. Cases, 8, decided by the
Supreme Court of that State in 1800, it was held that evidence of the parol declarations of a surveyor concerning the
marks or lines of a private estate were inadmissible. This
being the settled law of Kentucky, this court could not have
decided otherwise than it did in Ellicott v. Pear.. But even'
in that case the court uses the following guarded language:
"The doctrine in America, in respect to boundaries, has gone
further, and has admitted of general reputation as to boundaries between contiguous private estates."
The remaining assigonments of error relate to the answers to
the requests by the counsel of the respective rarties for instructions to the jury, and to the general charge of the court
below. They are so many in number that it would greatly
protract this opinion to review them .yatim,and in the order
of their presentation.

At the request of the plaintiff, the court below said to the
jury, "that in the absence of marks on the north made for the
William Elliott in 1,79-1, by the deputy surveyor, the William
Elliott must go to its calls for adjoiners on the north; that as
there is no evidence of any such original marks, the William
Elliott must go to its northern calls for the Daniel Reese,
Mary Myers, Charlotte Ruston, and John Reynolds, and.
therefore, the William Elliott. will embrace the *land in di-

CLEMENT -v. PACKER.
Opinion of the Court.

pute by locating the Mary Myers and Charlotte Ruston,
according to the official courses and distances from their
northern line, or from the Rockefeller maple corner."
We think the learned judge in giving this charge fell into
error. if it vas not a positive and imperative direction to the
jury to find for the plaintiff, it would be difficult to convince
them that this was not the manifest intention of the court.
In its logical effect it is a syllogism; the conclusion of -whichis,
that the land in dispute is within the limits of the William
Elliott, and belongs, therefore, to the plaintiff. Its terms are,
irst, that in the absence of any original marks on the north
of the William Elliott, made by the surveyor, at the date of
the survey, the William Elliott will go to its northern adjoining tracts, to wit, the :Mary Myers and Charlotte :Ruston;
second, that there is no evidence of any such original marks
on the north of the William Elliott, tQrd, that, therefore,
the William Elliott must go to its adjoiningtracts on thenorth,
(the Myers and Ruston,) and thus embrace the land in dispute. The direct tendency, if not the avowed purpose, of the
statements contained in this charge, is to withdraw from the
consideration of the jury a very considerable amount of pertinent and important testimony for the defence. It should
be borne in mind that the William Elliott is not a single separate tract, but one of a block of several tracts, surveyed at the
same time, by the same surveyor, under warrants of the same
(late, and for the same owner, and returned into the land office
as one body.
By the settled law of Pennsylvania, applicable to the location of surveys, original marks and living monuments on the
ground constitute the survey, and they are the highest proof
of its true location. The next most important evidence of
lodation is the calls for adjoining surveys; ancin the absence
of both of them, and then only, the lines according to courses
and distances, returned by the surveyor into the land office,
determine the location. But it is equally well settled, by an
unbroken current of decisions in that State, that the surveys
constituting a block are not to be treated as- separate and individual surveys; nor can each tract be located independently

-328

OCTOBER TERM, t887.
Opinion of the Cdourt.

of the rest, by its own individual lines or calls or courses and
distances; but such surveys are to be located together.as a
block or one large tract. If lines and-corners made for such
a block of surveys can be found upon the ground, this fixes
the location of the block, even to the disregard of the call for
adjoiners. The lines and corners found upon any part of the
block of surveys belong to each and every tract of the block,
as much as they do to the particular tract which they adjoin.
In Pruner v. Bnisbsn, 98 Penn. St. 202, the question came
before the court below, and the principles just laid down were
enunciated in that court, and upon a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, Mr. Justice Sterrett said: "The
thirteen tracts having been surveyed in a block and so returned
must be located upon the ground as a block-; neither of them
can be arbitrarily located in disregard of the lines and corners
found upon other parts of the block. All the lines and corners marked upon the ground and returned must be considered
in ascertaining the proper location of the block. Those found
upon any part of the block belong to each and every tract of
which it is composed, and if sufficient lines and corners can be
found they determine the location of the entire block, without
regard to its calls for adjoiners or for waters, if such calls
conflict with the lines actually run upon the ground and returned." Ile added. "It requires neither argument nor citation of authority to show that the learned judge was clearly
right in thus instructing the jury" p. 210.
In Fritz v. Brandon, 78 Penn. St. 342, 351, Chief Justice
Agnew says "When one person is owner of all the warrants,
they may be surveyed together in a single block by extcrior
lines, leaving the interior lines to be settled by the owner himself. . ock v. Atley, 13 S. & R. 382; Bte en v. Hughes, 3 W.
& S. 465; (ollin v. Bc,'cay, 7 Barr [7 Penn. St.] 73; Hagerty v. .Mathers, 7 Casey [31 Penn. St.] 348. The legal
effedt is, that the entire block is viewed as one tract. Hence,
Chief Justice Lewis said, in
rlHe v. Rittenhouse, 1 Casey
[25 Penn. St.] 491, ' Under these circumstances it is evident
that the whole fifteen surveys adjoining each other-in a single
block, without interior lines, all made at one time and owned

CLEMENT v. PACKE R.
OpInon, of the Court.

by the same party, were essentially but one tract.'
This principle was m the mind of Chief Tustice Woodward
when he said, in 3fXane v. SaZlada, 12 Wright [48 Penn. St.]
425: ' And when we are dealing with blocks of surveys we
must remember that the marks on any part of the block belong to each tract in the block' So Judge Strong said, in
Da rrak v. Bryant, 6 1'. F. Smith [56 Penn. St.] 75" 'And
it they were surveyed as a block, they must be located as a
block' '
In Aalone v. ,&Zac,

48 Penn. St. 419, Chief Justice Woodward says: "Located by these adjoiners, Isaac Killer would
take the land in dispute, but several of its courses and distances and the configuration of the survey as returned into the
land office would essentially be changed. Notwithstanding
these consequences, however, the defendants insisted upon its
The plaintiffs, on the other band,
location by its calls. . .
contended that the whole block of twenty-five surveys should
be located by the marks on the ground, with no other reference to calls for adjomers than such as would be consistent
with the marks on the ground; and that.it is imnmaterigl that
no marks are found on the Miller survey, since authentic marks
are found on other tracts of the block sufficient to locate the
whole block, and that these marks apply with decisive effect
to Isaac Miller. TIhey ddny also that Merrick Starr was called
for on the west of Isaac Miller; but if it was, they say it was
a mistake, and must be re3ected in favor of the comses and

distances as returned. In a word, the plaintiffs would locate
the Isaac Miller by the marks on the ground of other tracts, in
connection with which it was surveyed and returned.
And when we are dealing with blocks of surveys we must
remember that the marks on any part of the block belong to
each tract of the block. Interior lines were never ran and
marks are not to be looked for on them; but if marks are
found upon the ground to establish an exterior line of a particular tract of the block, and we find other tracts returned
with that same line, we are to preoume it was adopted as the
boundary of these tracts, no less than of the tracts which bear
the marks. When the surveyor, for instance, ran from the

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

'Opinion of tbe. Court.

pine corner of Gilbert and Brooks to the stone corner of Lomison and Paul, ns course for more than three hundred perches
was S. 100 E. and his only other course for eighty-nine perches
was S. 4V E. and these two courses carried him the whole
width of the Gilbert and Miller tracts, and formed the western
boundary of ihese respective tracts: NVo marks are found on
these lines, but the pine and stones are sufficient to locate
them." p. 425.
In Nortaumberla/nd Coa2 Co. .v. Ckment, 95 Penn. St. 126,
it was held: "When original surveys have been made and
returned Ias a block into the land office, the location of each
-.tract therein may be proved by proving the location of the
block. In ascertaining the location of a tract the inquiry is
not where it should or might have been located, but where it
actually was located. Every mark on the ground tending to
show the location of any tract in the block is some evidence of
the location of the whole block, and therefore of each tract
therein." p. 137.
We think these authorities are conclusive upon this point.
The principle itself -was'invoked-by the defendant in error and
by the judge below, when, at the request of the former, the
judge charged the jury that if the actual position upon the
ground of one single maple corner could be established, this
would fix the southern line of the whole block of eleven surveys and of every member of the block. If, therefore, any
original marks could be found called for and established on the
northern line of any tract of the Le Fevre block, that woulca
fix the northern line of the whole block of six surveys.
It was conceded by the plaintiff and defendant below, and
stated by the learned judge in his charge to the jury, that the
William Elliott was a member of the Le Fevre block, of which
the Ebenezer Branham was the leading warrant and controlling survey.
A. B. Cochran, a surveyor produced by the plaintiff lelow
as a witness in his own behalf, testified that the " post by a
pine," called for by the Ebenezer Branham as a monument on
its northern line, was a well recognized mark on that line; and
that he found three other trees on that line west of the "post

CLEMENT v. PACKER.
Opinion of the Court.

by a pine" in the line of official courses, for 15D) perches. And
there were not less than five surveyors, who, as witnesses produced by the defendant, testified that they found five or six
trees on the northern line of the Ebenezer Branham, in the
official courses of the same line. These marks, if the jury
believed the witnesses, must be regarded, according to the authorities, marks and monuments sufficient, if not overcome by
the force of rebutting evidence, to fix the entire northern line
of the Le Fevre block and of each tract composing it, including
the William Elliott. For these reasons we consider that the
inevitable effect of that portion of the charge in question was
to mislead the jury.
In regard to the Francis West qnd Richard Martin tracts,
the location of which the defendant below offered in evidence
for the purpose of showing that the southern line of the Brush
Valley block was ran at the time of the original survey and
marked upon the ground far enough south of the official
courses and distances to include the land in dispute, the court
charged the jury in these words".The Richard Martin, being a junior survey, cannot, control
or enlarge the dimensions of the Samuel Lobdil and the other
members of the Brush Valley block, which are earlier surveys.
"The location of a junior warrant may throw some light
upon the location of a senior survey which it calls to adjoin.
Hence, what the deputy surveyor did in'locating the Richard
Martin has been admitted in qvidence, and may be considered
by the jury m connection with all the other evidence in determining the question whether or not the chestnut oak and the
gums relied on by the defendant are trees marked by the
surveyors in 1793 to define the southern line for the Brush
Valley block; but should the jury find that none of those
trees -vere marked for the survey of 11193, then the Richard
Martin can have no weight in determining the location of the
Brush Valley block, but the eleven surveys of that block must
then be located from their fixed corners upon the northern
line according to the official courses and distances, (unless,

indeed, the jury should find in favor of David Rockefeller'
location of the -maple corner.) "

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

We cannot concur with this charge as a correct application
of the general law of the State of Pennsylvama to the facts of
this case. It isunquestionably true that a junior survey cannot control or enlarge the dimensions of a senior survey We
understand this to mean, that when the location of a survey is
or can be ascertained and determined by its own marks upon
the ground, its own calls and -courses and distances, it cannot
he changed or controlled or enlarged or diminished by the
marks or lines of an adjoining junior survey; but when, from
the disappearance of those original landmarks, caused by time
and other agencies, from the senior survey, the location of a
particular line, or the identity,of a corner, isleft in uncertainty
or becomes the subject of controversythen. the original and
well-established marks found upon a later survey made by the
same surveyor about the same time, and adjoining the one in
dispute, are regarded as legitimate evidence, not to contest or
control, but to elucidate, throw light upon, and thus aid the
jury in discovering the exact location of 'the older survey. In
stating to the jury that such marks on the junior survey (the
Richard Martin) might be considered in determining the single
question whether or not the chestnut oak and gums, relied on
by the aefendant, were marked by the surveyors in 1793 to
define the line for the Brush Valley block, "and that no
weight can be attached to the Richard Martin," if the jury
find that none of these trees were so marked, the judge committed error. In restricting the operaton of this evidence to
this one single question, to the exclusion of all other questions
connected with the location of the southern boundary of the
Brush Valley block, we are of the opinion that he was in
direct conflict with the rule laid down by the Pennsylvania
courts.
In Clergen v;..orthumberkand Coal Co., 87 Penn. St. 291,
this very question came up as to the effect of the "post by a
pine," and the pitch-pine upon the southern line of the Richard
Martin, in fixing the southern line of the Mary Myers. The
court below allowed this evidence to go to the jury to be considered in determining the southern line of the Mary Myers.
The Supreme Court affirmed the well-established rule, that

CLEMENT v. PACKER.
Opion of the Court.

marks upon an adjoining junior survey cannot contrdl or
enlarge the dimensions of an earlier survey, (even though the
junior survey adopts the lines of the older,) but that such
marks may be submitted to the jury as evidence tending to
discover the actual location of the older survey. The court
said: "The point, though made in the oral argument "aganst
the instruction of the learned court below, we think, is without a sufficient foundation in the charge. The judge very
correctly held that a subsequent survey could not control the
lines of a former, but he did not leave the case upon this single
instruction, by omitting to inform the jury that the subsequent
acts of the deputy surveyor in locating a junior warrant and.
the marks left by him on the ground, might. be considered as
evidence tending to disprove the actual location of the older
survey. On the contrary, he answered the third point of the
plaintiff below, which raised the question very plainly, so as
to bring the true distinction fairly before the minds of the
jury. The point.is clear, and.he replied: ' Marks found upon
adjoining surveys made about the time of the survey are
evidence upon the subject of location, but they cannot control
or enlarge the dimensions of-an earlier survey, even though
they may adopt its lines. Thus the jury was left to locate
the earlier survey by those marks, if they should conclude that
they indicated the true place of the earlier location, and were
at the same time informed that the lines of a later survey cannot alter or enlarge the lines of a former survey, although the
courses and distances of these former lines may be adopted.
Certainly, this was a fair instruction, and brought the charge
within the precedents cited. - The difference between that
which is evidence of.a fact and an effect which controls the
fact is plain. Then, when the judge- came to state the
evidence of the marks found, he most distinctly referred to the
pitch-pine on the southern line of the Martin t-act, and the
ppst, or pine as the material matter in determining the question
as to the southern boundary of Mary Myerb, In the next
paragraph he refers to his answers to the points and leavesthe
question.of the boundary, as'indicated by those marks, to the
jury."

p. 291.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

The phraseology employed in this opinion of the court seems
to have been adoptedrfor the special purpose of excluding, by
anticipation, the qualification added to the rule in the general
charge of the court below. The case just cited says that the
marks ("post by a pine" and the pitch pine) on the Martin
line were rightly submitted to the jury as material matter m
determining the question of the southern boundary of the Mary
Myers. But the learned judge below in this case said that the
Richard Martin can have r -weight in determining the location of the Brush Valley block, and, therefore, of the Mary
Myers, unless the jury find that certain trees relied on by the
defendant bore certain marks.
In the case of'the Yortrumberand Coal Co. v. Clement, 95

Penn. St. 126, the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania passed
upon this same question as to the effect of marks upon the
southern line of the Richard Martin, (which marks were "post
by a pine " and ihe pitch pine,) as evidence to fix the location
of the line that divides the Billington tract from the Walker
tract, defining the southern limit of the former and the northern limit of the latter. The court said: "The official survey
of the Thomas Billington calls for a small maple a* its southwest corner.

Maple sprouts are found at the place clanned by

the defendant in error to be the southwest corndi' of the tract.
The original surveys of all these tracts were made l y Henry
Donnel, acting as a deputy surveyor. It is shown that the
same Donnel, in 1814, in running the northern line of the
Lewis Walker tract, fixed the line between it and the Thomas

Billington to be where it is now claimed by the defendant in
error. The official survey of the Richard Martin calls for a
white pine tree in its south line. That tree is standing.and
identified. That warrant was located by the same surveyor,
and the return of survey was made three days before the
survey of the Billington tract was returned. It calls for the
Samuel Lobdil on the west, and the line between the tracts
is of the same length in each survey. He had the warrants
in his hands at the same time. The location of the latter
throws light on the former. The location claimed by the
defendant in error for the Billing-ton is not only in .harnony

CLEMENT v. PACKER.
Opinion of the Court.

with the block of surveys of which it forms a part, but also
with the location of the Richard Martin made by the same
surveyor soon thereafter." The-ousel for the plaintiff below,
in their able brief, say that there are some errors of fact in
that case which detract very much from it as an authority.
We do not discover in it-any material errors of fact, but it is
hardly necessary to consider the suggestion in view of the
general concurrence of authorities in the principle therein laid
down. See-.Pernsylvana Canal Co. and otiers v..X=M,
33 Leg. Int. 339; see also Sweigart v. Bihazrde, 8 Penn. St.
436; Bellas v. Okczver, 40 Penn. St. 260.
Counsel for defendant in error say in their brief: "This
admitted principle of evidence, that the call of the younger
was some evidence upon the subject of boundaries upon-the
location of the older, when both were indicated by.the same
deputy surveyor, never did have much weight in our court."
We see nothing in the cases cited and especially relied on to
sustain this assertion, but much to confirm the authority of
the rule. The brief cites Prwnerv. B rsbh,. 98 Penn. St. 202,
and says "the attempt wit made, as was done in the present
case, to avoid the conclusiveness of the official return of survey
by the calls of a junior survey, and to locate the older surveys
by such junior calls." This is not an exact statement of the
issue in the case. It' is just the revetse. The attempt was
made to avoid the conclusiveness of the origna marks of a
8rurny upon the ground by the calls of its own leading warrant
and by the calls of a junior survey. In that case there were
original marks sufficient to establish the. line of the older
survey that -was in dispute, and the only contest about that
line arose, not from the absence of original marks upon it, but
from the marks and calls of junior surveys. and also the marks
of older surveys. The court decided that "the jury was
properly instructed that the block of 1*793, as returned to the
land office, -7u=8 be located ky its own mark, and not by calls
of latew e rveye, or by marks found wyon the ground younger
than, 17,93." The construction put by counsel upon this language wbuld bring the decision of the court into direot conflict
with its own holding made at the same term and reported iih
the same volume.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

The learned counsel for the defendant in error argue with
great force and ingenuity that the rule is firmly established
as the law of Pennsylvama, that after a survey has been
returned into the land office for the period of twenty-one.
years unchallenged by any adverse claimants in the mode
required by law, it is a conclusive presumption that the survey
was actually made and marked upon the ground as shown

by the officiAl return. After a careful examination of the
decisions of the Supreme Court cited by counsel, and some
others relating to the subject, we are convinced that they are
all in harmony with the conclusions herein announced. After
the lapse of twenty-one years from the return of a survey the
presumption is that the warrant was located as returned by
the surveyor to the land office; and im the absence of rebutting facts the official courses and distances determine the
location of the tract warranted. Bpt this presumption is not
conclusive, and is ebutted by proof of the existence of marked
lines and monuments, and other facts tending to. show that
the actual location on the ground was different from the
official courses and distances. Where younger surveys of
fixed lines called for the older the fact is admissible, in the
language of the authorities, "to aid the jury in discovering
the actual location of the survey"
There are other assignments of error by the counsel for
plaintiff in error; but inasmuch as they involve somewhat the
principles of the points already passed upon, we do not deem
it necessary to consider them farther.
.Thejedgment of the

iro

t Cfourt isreversed, aad te cae

remnanded, with. di,'eoions to guant a mew triaZ

