HOSKIN V. FISHER.
Statement of the Case.

HOSK=I
APPEAL

'. FISKER.

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF TE

UNITED

STATES FOR

TEM DISTRIOT OF OALITFORNTA.
No.169. Argued February 7,3 88.-Deelded March 19, 1888.

Claims 2 and 3 of reissued letters patent No. 8876, granted to Frank H.
Fisher September 2, 1879, on an application filed March 29, 1879, for an
",improvement in hydraulic mining apparatus," the original patent No.
110,222, having been granted to Fisher December 20, 1870, namely, "2.
A ball-and-socket joint for connecting the discharge pipe of a hydraulic
mining apparatus with the end of a swivel section, B, substantialy as
above described. 3. The discharge pipe, B, ha-ing a semi-cylindrical
or bpll-shaped enlargement at its base, in combination with a corresponding cup-shaped socket, D, on the end of the horizontally swivelling section, B, substantially as, and for the purpose described," are invalid.
A copy of the original patent being found in the record under a proper certificate from the clerk of the court below, and there being a stipulation
under which it might have been.introduced in'evidence from the proceedings in another case, it is to be considered, although there is no separate memorandum of its introduction in evidence.
There was a first reissue of the patent, granted as No. 5193, December 17,
1872, but no copy of it being found in the record, it cannot be presumed
that claims 2 and 3 of the second reissue were found in the first reissue.
The plaintiffs having stated in their bill that the first reissue or a copy of
it was ready in court to be produced, it was for them to put it in evidence, if they desired to excuse the delay of more than eight years and
three months in applying, for the second reissud by showing that the first
reissue, granted a little less than two years after the date of the original
patent, contained claims 2-and 3 of the second reissue.
The question of such delay is to be considered as if there never had been
any first reissue.
Claims 2 and 3 of the second reissue being clauns to sub-combinations less
than the whole combination covered by the single claim of the original
patent, and the descriptive parts and drawings of the two specifications
being alike, and it not being indicated in the original that the invention
consisted in anything less than a combination of all the elements embraced in such single claim, and the delay not being explained, such
claims were unlawful expansions of the original patent.

Decree for complainants. Respondents apBILL IN EQUITr.
pealed. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER -TERM, 1887.
Opinion of t6e Court.

Mr. -M A.

heaton for appellants.

.ifp. ToAn H. .Miler for appellees. 2Mr. J -'.
_
was with him on the brief.

Mm . JusticE. BLA.TOHFOR

anghorrw

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of California, by Frank H.
Fisher and Joshua Hendy agaimst Richard Hoskin and others,
for the infringement of reissued letters patent No. 8876,
granted to Frank H. Fisher, September 2, 1879, on an application filed March 29, 1879, for an "improvement in hydraulic
mining apparatus," the original patent, No. 110,222, having
been granted to Fisher, December 20, 18.T0. This reissue was
a second reissue, and it appears that there was a first reissue,
No. 5193, dated December 17, 1812, granted on the surrender
of the original patent, and tba' the second reissue was granted
on the surrender of t e first reissue.
The bill of complaint sets forth the fact of the surrender of
the original patent and the granting of the first reissue, and
that the first reissued patent*is "ready in court to be produced" by the plaintiffs, "or a duly authenticated copy
thereof:" 'The bill also sets forth that the second reissue
"was issued for the same invention as that described in the
original letters patent."
There was only one claun in the origmndl patent, as follows:
"The swivel-jointed nozzle and pipes A B D E, combined, as
described, with the lever F, working through slotted post.f,
strap i, lever o, and pawl and racket j k, for the purpose
specified."
The second reissue contains three claims, as follows:
1.
The swivel-jaonted sections A B and ball-and-socket-jointed
section D E, com-bined, as described, with the lever F, work-.
ing through slotted posts f, strap .i, lever C, and pawl and
ratchetj K, for the purpose set forth. 2. A ball-and-socket
joint for connecting the discharge-pipe of a hydraulic mining
apparatus with the end of a swivel section, B, substantially

HQSKIN V. FISHER.
Opoiqnq

of the Court.

as above described. 3. The discharge-pipe E, having a semi-.
cylindrical or b4ll-shaped enlargement at its base, m .combination with a corresponding cup-shaped socket,. D, on the end
of the horizontaly-swivelling section B, substantially as and
for the purpose described2'
The claim of the original patent and the flirst.claim of the.
second reissue are substantially alike. It as not alleged -that
the defendants have infringed the first claim of the second
reissue, or that their apparatus would have infringed the claim
of the original patent. The contention is that they have
infringed claims 2 and 3 of the second, reissue.
The answer sets up that the second reissue contains new
matter, which was not contained m the original patent, and
which describes and clains that of which Fisher "was not
the inventor; 1-that Fislier did not discover or invent or
make any hydraulic machine which machine or combination
included either a ball-and-socket joint, or ball.and-socket-jointed
sections, or a discharge-pipe having a ball-shaped enlargement
at its base; that his original patent did not contain any
description of either of those devices, and did not claun them
in any combination or otherwise; that all that is said in the
second reissue about a ball-and-socket-jointed section, and
ball-and-socket joints, and a discharge-pipe with a ball-shapedf
enlargement at its base, is new matter, -which-was 'not con
tamed in the original patent,'and was inserted in the second
reissue by Fisher fraudulently and for the sake of deceiving
and misleading the public, he well knowing that no part of it
was his invention, and also knowing that it was not contained
in the original patent, and that, by reason of such fraudulent
insertion of such new matter, the second reissue is void.
Issue was joined and proofs were taken on both sides, and,
on the 17th of \llarch, 18S2, the case having been heard by
the Circuit Judge, an interlocutory decree was entered in
favor of the plaintiffs, adjudging the second- reissue to be
,valid, and that the defendants had infringed upon the 2d and
3d claims of it, and awarding a decree to the plaintiffs' for
profits and damages. and ordering a reference to a master to
ascertain them, and a perpetual injunction in regard to the

220.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

second and third claims. Afterward, a rehearing was ordered
by the Circuit Judge, to be had upon the same testimony.
The rehearing was had before the Circuit Justice and the
Circuit Judge, and, on the 4th of September, 1882, an inter-

locutory decree was entered in the same terms as the first
interlocutory decree. On the report of the master, a final
decree was entered, M[arch T, 1884, awarding to the plaintiffs
a sum of money as profits derived by the defendants from the
infringement.
It is to be gathered from the record that Fisher had at some
time brdiight a suit against one or both of the present defendants named Craig, for the infringement of the first reissue,
and at the commencement of -the taking of evidence on the
part of the plaintiffs in the present suit, the. following stipulation is found entered on the record: "It is stipulated and
agreed by and between the counsel for the respective parties
herein, that the evidence taken and on file in this court in the
case of Fisher v. Craig,number 1144, shall be considered in
evidence in this case, reserving, however, to each party the
right to introduce such additional evidence as they may desire.
It- is further agreed, that, in case any exhibits introduced in
evidence in said case of .Fiserv. t2"aig shall be nussing from
the ls, the same may be supplied, each party supplying his
own exhibits." It does not appear by the record, to what
extent the evidence taken and on file in the same court in the
case of Fiherv. Cai'a,thus referred to, was used on the hearing of the present case. There is found in the record a paper
marked "Exhibit No. 5," being a certified copy from the
Patent Office, certified Mitarch 8, 1873, of the original patent
granted to Fisher, with-its specification and drawings. There
is. no separate memorandum in the record of the introduction
of this original .patent in evidence, but, as it is found in the
record, under a certificate of the clerk of the Circuit Court
that it is a part of the record and of the proceedings in the
cause, we must accept it as such, and, if necessary, assume it
to have been a part of the evidence taken and on file in the
case of _-is1e- v Craig,and covered by the stipulation above
referred to. That stipulation was to the effect that-the evi-

HOSKIN

v. FISHER.

Opinion of the Court.

be considered in evidence in
dence in Figher v. Craigshould "1
this case."
The first reissue is not found in the record: The plaintiffs
do not appear to have put it in evidence, although the bill
avers that it is ready m court to be produced by them, or a
duly authenticated copy of it. lor does it appear that the
defendants put it in evidence, although, as the suit of Fisher
v. Craig was f6unded upon it, it is to be rnferred that it must
have been part of the evidence taken and on file in that case,
and which, by the stipulation, was to be considered in evidence in this case. Nqevertheless, neither party has brought it
before us.
The plaintiffs contend, that, in order to determine the validity of the second reissue, that must be compared with the first
reissue, on the surrender of which it was granted; that, in the
absence of the first reissue no such comparison can be made;
that, therefore, it must be presumed that the first reissue and
the second reissue were both for the same invention; and that
it must also be presumed that the second and third claims of
the second reissum were contained in, the first reissue. But we
are of opinion that, the original patent and the second reissue
being properlybefore us, we have a right to compare them
-witheach other, and that, upon such comparison, the question
of the validity of the second reissue must be determined.
Under the proffer in the bill of complaint, it was for the
plaintiffs to introduce the first reissue in evidence; and, if they
desired to show an excuse for the delay of more than eight
years and three months after the granting of the original
patent in applying for the second reissue, by showing that the
fitst reissue, granted a little less than two years after the date
ol the original patent, contained substantially claims 2 and 3
of the second reissue, they should have. affirmatively made
good that excuse, by themselves introducing the frst reissue in
evidence, or bringing it before us in the record as a part of
the evidence taken and on file in the case of Fisher v Craq.
Under theallegations contained in the answer that the original patent did not claim the devices covered by the 2d and 3d
claims of the second reissue, and that sai 2d- and 3d claims

OCTOBER TER-,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

are new matter, not contained in the original patent, and that
the second reissue is void by reason of such new matter, the
question ip fairly raised, on the face of the original patent and
the second reissue, as to the effect of the aelay of more than
eight years and three months after the date of 'the original
patehit in applying for the second reissue, the case standing,
for the purpose of such comparison, as if there never had been
any first reissue.
In the case of TF-oema7e v. ikeAr, 115 U. S. 96, the following propositions were laid down by this court: (1) The ques.tion whether delay m applying for a reissue of a patent has
been reasonable or unreasonable is a question of law for the
determination of the c6urt. (2) The action of the Patent
Office in granting a reissue, and deciding that, from special
cir.cumstances shown, it appeared that the applicant had not
been guilty of laches in applying for it, is not sufficient to
explain a delay in the application which otherwise appears
unreasonable and to constitute laches. (3)Where a reissue
expands the claims of the original patent, and it appears that
there was a delay of two years, or more, in applying for it, the
delay invalidates the reissue, unless accounted for and shown
to be reasonable. These principles are applicable to the
present case, and require that the decree of the Circuit Court
shoull be reversed. The delay is not accounted for by the
plaintiffs, nor shown to be reasonable.

The descriptive parts of the. specifications of the original
patent and the second reissue are substantially alike, and the
drawings of the two are the same; but claims 2 and 3 of the
second reissue are not found m the original patent. The
claim in that patent to the swivel-jointed nozzle and pipes A
B D E, combined with the other parts of the machine, and to
nothing else, was, under the decisions of this court., an abandonment and dedication to the public of sub-combinations less
than the whole combination, after an unexplained delay such
as that in the present case. The 2d and 3d claims of the
second reissue are claims to such sub-combinations. It was
not indicated in the specification of the original patent that
Fisher considered his invention as consisting in anything less

HOSKIN v. FISHER.
Opinion of the Court.

than a combination of all the elements embraced in the combinatioll claimed in that patent.
In the recent case of Park'er & T iiple Co. v. Yale M¥oc7
Co., 123 U. S. 87, it was held that what was suggested or
indicated in the original specification, drawings,, or Patent
Office model, is not to be considered as a part of the invention
intended to have been covered by the original patent, unless it
can be seen from a comparison of the original and the reissued
patents, that the invention which the original patent was
intended to cover embraced the things thus suggested or mdicated m the original specification, drawings, or Patent Office
model, and unless the original specification indicated that
those things were embraced in the invention intended to have
been secured by the original patent; and that, where it did
not appear that any attempt had been made to secure by the
original patent the inventions covered by the new claims in
the reissue, those inventions must be regarded as having been
abandoned or waived, so far as the reissue was concerned.
The plaintiffs contend that it appears from the testimony
of Fisher that it was the result of the suit o Fisher v. Craig,
brought on the first reissue, which convinced him that that
reissue was inoperative, and that he took out the second reissue
to remedy the defect in the first; afd"that the delay in taking
out the second reissue is explained by the fact that the suit on
the first reissue was pending. But we have not- before us the
proceedings in the suit of FTii-er v. 'razg,to such an extent
as to be able to form any intelligent judgment upon the question as to how far the proceedings in that suit bear upon the
question of the delay in taking out the second'reissue. .f the
plaintiffs desired to avail themselves of those proceedings to
show such excuse, it was their duty to have brought them
before us, if they were a part of the evidence in this caseunder
the stipulation above referred to. Although the defendants
did not incorporate them in the record, and although the
clerk of the court below, in making his return to this court,
certifies that what is contained in the transcript is a "full,
true, and correct copy of the record (excepting models), and of
all proceedings in the above and therein entitled cause, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

that the same together constitute the transcript on appeal to
the Supreme Court of the Unitea States in said cause," such
certificate being entitled in the present cause, it was perfectly
competent for the'plaintiffs to have brought before this court,

and it was their duty. to have done so, by certiorari, any
necessary parts of the record which the .defendants had.
omitted to bring before us.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
Reversed, nd the case is rema ded to te Circuit Courtfor
th~e Yo?,the~m 1)tanct of CaZlforrua, .itki a dire7,ion to
di sms the bill, with costs.

FRTIDENSTEIN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHE RI DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 178. Argued February 10, 185.-Detded March 19, 1888.

In a suit za rem against certain diamonds seized as forfeited for a violation
of the customs revenue laws, it was competent for the United States to
give in evidence the declarations of S.. not the claimant, who was
intrusted by the latter with the custody of the diamonds for sale, such
declarations having been made to a customs officer who took the dinonds
from a person with whom S. had deposited them, and in the course of
an investigation by the officer to determine whether he should seize them,
and having been part of the res gestM.
It was also competent for the officer to testify that he did not seize the
diamonds till after the declarations were made.
The jury having found, in compliance with § 16 of the act of June 22, 1874,
e. 391, 18 Stat. 189, that the acts complained of in the information were
done with intent to defraud the United States, and no motion to dismiss
the cause for any defect in the information, and no motion in arrest of
judgment, having been made, any such defect which could have been*
availed of by demurrer. or exception. or motion to disniiss at the trial,
made on the ground of such defect. or motion In arrest of judgment,
must be regarded as haing been waived or as having been cured by the
verdict.
An information under the revenue laws for the forfeiture of goods. which
seeks no judgment of ine or imprisonment against any person, ',-, civil

action.

