OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

WALL v. BISSELL.
APPEAL I-OM

TIM OIROUlT

COURT OF TIM

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF IIqDIAA.
No. 22. Argued April12, 23,1887.-Decided -March19, 1888.

It seems, that under the statutes 6f Indiana an executor named in a will,
who has never quilified, or been appointed by the Court of Probate, or
taken out letters testamentary, has no power to redeem a mortgage of
real estate, either as an executor, or as trustee under the will.
In equity, a mortgage of real estate, made to one of two creditors to secure
the payment of a debt, due to them. jointly, is incident to the debt, and
may be released, after the death of the mortgagee, by the surviving
creditor; and a release, made in good faith by the survivor, of part of
the land from any and all lien by reason of the mortgage, is valid against
himself and the representatives of the deceased, although he is in fact
executor of the latter, and describes himself as such in the last clause
and the signature of the release, and has by law no authority to enter
the release as executor, for want of letters testamentary.

Tmis was a bill m equity by George P. Bissell against Abraham G. Barnett, his wife, Byroi H. Barnett and James W.
Barnett his minor sons, his sisters Susan B. Shoaff and :Mary
Ann Wall and their husbands, Henry J. Rudisill, Oscar A.
Simons and John H. Bass, Henry Burgess, Charles A&.Zollinger, and the representatives of John J. Kamm, to foreclose
mortgages of real estate in Indiana. Answers and cross bills
were filed by the various parties, setting up their different
interests, and a final decree was rendered for the plaintiff,
from which Mr. and Nfrs. Wall, Mfr. and :Mrs. Shoaff, and the
two minor sons of Abraham G. Barnett, appealed to this
court. The case appeared by the pleadings and proofs to be
as followsIn 1869 Abraham G. Barnett, his brother John. H. Barett,
and lNewton B. Freeman, were partners m a paper mill, and
desired to raise money for the use of the partnership and to
pay up Freeman's share of the capital. At the request of the
two Barnetts, and of Rudisill (who appears to have been
promised an interest in the partnership), Bissell lent to ti

WALL v. BISSELL.
Statement of the Case.

two Barnetts the sum of $8000, the whole of winch was put
into the firm and $5000 of which was credited to Freeman.
Pursuant to an agreement then made by the three partners
and :Rudisill and Bissell, the following instruments were executed:
On Xuly 15, 1869, the two Barnetts executed to Bissell eight
bonds for $1000 each, payable in ten years, with interest semiannually, secured by mortgage from John'H. Barnett to Bissell
of land in the city of Fort Wayne.
On the same day, Tudisill executed to John R. Barnett a
bond, reciting that "said Henry J. Rudisill has received from
said Barnett the sum of $5000, part of a loan made by J. H.
Barnett and Abraham G. Barnett for the sum of $8000 of
George P. Bissell, secured by" the bonds and'mortgage aforesaid, and conditioned to "pay said sum of $5000 of said
bonds, with interest the.reon, as it becomes due."
On December 23, 1871, as security for the payment of this
bond, Radisill executed to John H?. Barnett a mortgage of
land, upon all of which, except a small piece, there existed a
prior mortgage, made by Rudisill to his mother to-secure the
payment of an annuity to her, and now held by Shons and
Bass.
On January 23, 1812, John H. Barnett died, leaving a will
containing the following provisions:
First. A devise of part of the land, mortgaged by him to
Bissell as aforesaid, to Mrs. Wall, with successive remainders
to Byron H. Barnett, to his children, and to Abraham G.
Barnett.
Second. A devise of the rest of that land to Mrs. Shoaff,
with successive remainders to Xames W. Barnett, to his children, and to Abraham G. Barnett.
Third and Fourth. Devises of other lands to Mrs. Shoaff
and to Abraham G. Barnett and his children.
"1Fifth. Now, as to my interest in the paper mill and business carried on at the city of Fort Wayne under the name of
Freeman & Barnett, which is regarded as one-third in extent
of said business effects, real and personal, &c., &c., stock,
assets, machinery, dividends, dues, &c., I devise and bequeath,

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

subject to the conditions and-agreements, performed or unper.
formed, which were named at the time I became a party in
interest in said paper business so carried on by and m Freeman & Barnett's name, and which conditions and agreements
are known to my brother, A. G. Barnett, I give and bequeath
unto my said brother, A. G. Barnett, and to my nephews,
James Barnett Wall and Charles W. Wall, sons of my sister,
Mary A. Wall, all my interest m the paper mill and business
aforesaid, real and personal, or otherwise, so carried on and
owned by said Freeman & Barnett: To have and to hold to
each of said devisees or legatees, three in number, so named,
one full third of my said interest in said paper business, mill,
&c. The sole control of the respective interests of said James
B. and Charles W. Wall shall be under the control of my
brother,.A. G. Barnett, until said James B. shall reach the age
of twenty-five years. The profits atising out of said interest
so bequeathed to said Charles and James B. respectively shall
be at reasonable periods each year paid'said legatees respectively by said Barnett, or by any other person who may be
auth6rized to control said interest in the progress of said business, by law or otherwise. And I hereby give the said A. G.
Barnett the right to sell said interests of said Charles and
James B., if he shall deem such sale expedient for .the best
interests of said Charles and James, he, the said A- G. Barnett,
first giving said Charles and James security for faithfully accounting to them for the proceeds of said sale; or if he shall
desire to buy said interests, or either of them, before either
shall be of age, then some third party shall qualify as guardian, and proceed to sell the same to said A. G. Barnett under
order and authority of law.
"Sixth. I name my brother, A. G. Barnett, my executor, to
act himself, or jointly with one he may choose; if acting alone,
then he shall and may do so without bond as such executor,
but if acting with another, both shall give bond and take out
letters testamentary and proceed according to law; but if he
shall act alone, then, as executor, he shall have authority under
this will to proceed as if he had letters testamentary to execute the trusts devolved on- him as executor, as also those

WALL v. BISSELL.
Statement of the Case.

which may incidentally ansQ in the execution, of this trust as
executor, but not any others arising out of a different relation,
such- as trustee or guardian of some of the parties named
herem or of some of the trust funds named hereinbefore. He
shall have power to proceed to collect all debts, judgments, or
choses in action, due me at my death, all rents due me at my
death, of any and all my real estate, except the homestead,
and to have control of and dispose of all my personal property, moneys and effects, reducing them to availability, and to,
collect all rents on the lots devised respectively, located in the
city of Fort Wayne, until such rents and the reasonable use of
the whole homestead place, including that .devised to Mfrs.
Susan Shoaff and to himself, until such funds so arising from
rents, us6 of homestead, moneys, personal property, &c., shall
be enough to pay my debts, funeral expenses, debts of last illness, and to purchase a lot in Lindenwood cemetery, properly
and fairly improve it, pay for exhuming the remains of my
father and mother, their interment, and the erection of a monument suitable to their condition in life in said lot, and this
shall be done speedily as the nature of the business shall allow,
after which the devisees respectively herein lastly named, and
incidentally referred to, shall control said property as the same
is intended in the respective clauses wherein said property is
devised."
On February 7,1872, the will was duly admitted to probate,
on the testimony of the subscribing witnesses, in a court of
the State of Indiana.
Abraham G. Barnett never qualified or gave bond as executor, as required by the statutes of Indiana, and the court of
probate never made any order appointing him executor, or
directing letters testamentary to issue, and no such letters
were ever issued. But he assumed to act as executor, and as
such took control of the real and personal property, collected
the rents of the real estate for some months, (after which he
turned it over to the devisees,) paid the testator's debts and
funeral expenses, purchased a burial lot, removed the remains
of the testator's father and mother to it, and erected a monument upon it. The other devisees knew of all these acts, and
TOL. CXV--25

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

made no objection, sdpposing him to be authorized by the will
to do them.
On January 23,1875, Rudisill sold and conveyed by warranty
deed to Burgess, Zollinger and Kamin part of the land included
in the mortgage from him to John HE.Barnett, and in the annuity mortgage to his mother; she released from her mortgage
this part of the-land; and Abraham G. Barnett executed, on
the margin of the record from Budisi to John H. Barnett, a
release of the same part, in the following words:
"I hereby release from any and all lien by reason of this
mortgage the following of the premises herein described: All
that part of S. E. - of sec. 35, t'p 31, R. 12 East, this day conveyed by Henry J. Rudisill to H. Burgess, Charles A. Zollinger, and J. J. Kamm. Witness my hand and seal as such
executor, January 23, 18M.
"ABPAHI G. BAFuirr, [srAL.]
"Executor of the Estate of John H. Barnett, deceased."
On the same day, and as part of the same transaction,
Rudisill executed to "Abraham G. Barnett, as executor of the
estate of John H. Barnett, deceased," a mortgage of other
lands, partly included also in the annuity mortgage. All the
parties to this transaction acted in good faith. But the transaction was not shown to have been known to the devisees
until about the time of the beginning of this suit, or to have
ever been assented to by them.
The bill prayed for a foreclosure of the mortgages from
John H. Barnett to the plaintiff, and from Budisill to John
H. Barnett, or, if the court should hold the release of the
latter good, then for a foreclosure of the mortgage from
Rudisill to Abraham G. Barnett.
The Circuit Court djecreed that the release was valid, and
that.the title in the land so released be quieted in the present
holders as against all other parties to this suit, and that the
various parcels of land be sold and applied to the payment of
the debts secured by the several mortgages in an order not
objected to by the appellants, supposing the release to be
valid, which they denied.

WALL w. BISSELL.
Opinion-of the Court.

XP. .X. 2inde for appellants.
Mr. 1?. S. Tayr

for appellees Simons, Bass, Hoffmeister,

McCurdy, and Hattersley
.fA.

B1.Ae.m

for appellees Burgess and Kammns.

Y_. Jusri. GRA&, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the cour.
The principal question in this case is the validity of the
release, executed by Abraham G. Barnett, of the mortgage
from Henry J. Rudisill to John H. Barnett. By the law of
Indiana, a mortgage creates only a lien to secure the mortgage debt, leaving the legal title of the land m the mortgagor.
Fetc7wr v. Rolme, 32 Indiana, 497.
It was argued for the appellees that this release was valid,
considering Abraham- G. Barnett in any one of three capaci-ties: 1st. As executor of the will of John H. Barnett. 2d.
As trustee under that will. 3d. As surviving joint owner, in
equity, of the bond and mortgage executed by Budisill to
John H. Barnettto secure the payment of a debt due to Join
H. Barnett and Abraham G. Barnett jointly.
1. The title of an executor in the personal property of his
testator, being derived from the will, doubtless vests in him
from the moment of the testator's death. Dixon v. Rarmay,
3 Cranch, 319, 323; -il
v. Tuckwr, 13 How. 458, 466. At
common law, he might, before proving the will in the Probate
Court, not only take possession of the property, but sell or
dispose of it, pay debts of the estate, receive or release debts
owing to it, bring actions for property which was in the testator's aetual possession, and do almost any other acts incident
to his office, except that he could not maintain any other
actions without producing a copy of the probate and letters
testamentary at the trial. 1 Williams on Executors (7th ed.)
293, 302, 303, 629.
But the statn.tes of Indiana provide that whenever any will
shall have been admitted to probate, letters testamentary shall
be issued to the persons named therein as executors (being

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

competent by law to serve as such) who shall qualify; and
further provide as follows
"Sue. 8. Every person named in the will as executor, who
shall qualify and give bond, shall be named in such letters, and
every person not thus named shall be deemed superseded.
"1SEc. 4. Any person who is appointed executor, who shall

renounce his trust m writing filed with the clerk, or who shall
fail to qualify and give bond within twenty days after probate
of such will, shall be deemed to have renounced'such appointment, and such letters shall issue to any other person named

m the will, capable and willing to accept such trust.
"SEC. 5. No executor named in the will shall interfere with
the estate intrusted to him,.further-than to preserve the same,
until the issuing of letters; but for that purpose he -may prosecute any suit to -preventthe loss of any paxt thereof."
"SEC. 19. Every person appointed executor, administrator
with the will annexed, or administrator, before receiving letters, shall execute a separate bond," with sureties, "in a penalty payable to the State of Indiana, of not less than double
the value of the personal estate to be adminuistered, conditioned
that he will faithfully discharge his duties as such executor or
administrato., and shall take and subscribe an oath or affirmation that he will faithfully discharge the duties of his trust
according to law;" and the bond, as well as the oath or affirmation, is required to be recorded. 2 Gavin & Heords Stat.
484, 489, 490, 491, Indiana Rev. Stat. 1881, ยง 2222-2225,
2242, 2243.
These statutes clearly manifest the intent of the legislature
that, although the personal property shall vest from the death
of the testator in.
the executor named in his will, yet, m order
to secure the interests of creditors and of legatees, every executor shall give bond and take out letters testamentary before
he can do any act as executor, except such as may be necessary
to preserve the property and prevent the loss of any part of it.
The prohibition is absolute that, except for that purpose, "no
executor shall interfere with the estate"' until the issuing of
letters testamentary.
The direction in the will of John H. Barnett that Abraham

WALL v. BISSELL.
Opinion of the Court.

G. Barnett may act as executor, without giving bond or taking
out letters testamentary, as the statutes require, is of no legal
effect.
The current of decision in other states, so far as we are
informed, is to the effect that under similar statutes (some of
them less peremptory in their terms) any acts done by an executor by way of disposing of the property are invalid, unless lie
takes out letters testamentary, or is appointed executor by an
order of the court of probate, equivalent to the issue of such
letters. Monroe v. ,Tame, I.funford, 194; Xartin v. Peck, 2
Yerger, 298; 07eveland v. Cundkr, 3 Stew. (Ala.) 489; Carpenter v. Going, 20 Alabama, 581; -parte Aax wel, 37 Alabama, 362, 864:;. Rittredge v. _Fo/som, 8 N. H. 98, 111; Rand
v. Hubard,4 MNet. 252, 257; Gay v. Minot, 3 Cush. 352; Carter
v. Carter,10 B. Monroe, 327; Stagg v. Green, 417 Missouri, 500;
Hartnett v. Tf'and, 60 N. Y7. 346, 350; XcDeanron v. .A'axfr , 38 Arkansas, 631.
We have been referred to no decision of the Supreme Court
of Indiana. that directly bears upon this case. The only one
that approaches it is 1-ays v. Wc7eery 41 Indiana, 583. In
that case, an heir, named in the will as executor, had, without
qualifying as such, or taking out letters testamentary, but with
the consent of all the other heirs, devisees and legatees, acted
as executor, and made distribution of the property. A subsequent order of the probate court, made without notice to him,
upon the application of one of those heirs, appointing another
person administrator with the will annexed, was reversed on
appeal, and letters testamentary directed to be issued to the
executor upon his qualifying and givmg bond according to law.
The ol inion proceeded upon the ground that the delay in taking out letters testamentary had been waived .by the mutual
arrangement of all parties interested; and it contained no
intimation that. the acts of an executor, who never took out
letters testamentary, .could affect the rights of any person
interested.in the estate who had not assented to them.
In the present case, whatever effect the facts that the other
devisees knew that the executor was acting as such, and made
no objection, might have against those of full age, the minor
devisees could not ba thereby estopped to assert their rights.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

ILetters testamentary issued to an executor, upoti his qualifying according to lkw, may relate back and legalize his previous tortious acts. 1 Williams on Executors, 269; APiemt v.
W'atkin,, 2 Hill (i. Y.) 225. Or an order of the court of
probate, appointing an executor, may not be subject to be
impeached collaterally by showing that he did not in fact
qualify; and may of itself be sufficient evidence of his authority, without the production of letters testamentary. VTogeP8
Succe8son, 20 La. Ann. 81; Piatt v. .AfoCuloug'7&, 1 McLean,
69, 4.
But where, as in this case, the executor has never qualified,
nor been appointed by the courtj and no letters testamentary
have been issiled, we have found no decision, under statutes
like those of Indiana, that any disposition of -the property by
the executor is valid as against persons interested who are not
estopped by having consented to it.
In the absence of any decision upon the point by the Supreme
Court of Indiana, we are therefore not prepared to hold that
the release in question 'has any validity as an act done by
Abraham .G.Barnett as executor.
2. The difficulties are quite as great in the way of holding
the release valid, considered as executed by Abraham G.
Barnett in the capacity of trustee under the willidistinct from
his office as executr.
In the first place, the will, after naming Abraham G.
Barnett executor, -and directing that he may act as such without. giving bond or taking out letters testamentary, provid
that "as executor he shall have authority under this will to
proceed, as if he -had letters testamentary, to execute the
trusts devolved on him as executor, as also those which may
incidentally arise in the execution of this trust as executor."
-By this iteration -of the words- "as executor,)' the testator
clearly shows that he did not intend that in performing the
usual duties of an executor he should act in any other capacity.
In the next place, it was not within the power of the
testator to defeat the provisions and the policy of the testamentary law of the State, by bequeathing personal property
to a trustee, without the intervention of an executor. As was

WALL v. BISSELL.
Opmon of the Court.

said by Chief Justice Shaw, delivering the opinion of the
Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, "It is an established
rule of law, that all the personal property of the testator vests
in the executors for some purposes, before probate of the will;
but to all intents and purposes, upon its probate. This they
evos as donees, by force of the gift, as inter
k not merely
take
but by., operation of the rules of law controlling, regulating
and giving effect to wills. A trustee, therefore, who is but a
legatee,-can take only through the executors. If a testator
were to appoint no executor, or direct that the estate should
go immediately into the hands of legatees or of o'ne or more
trustees for particular purposes, such direction would be nugatory and void." 2Vewcom v. WiZTirns, 9 Met. 525, 533. So,
in the earlier case of Huntr v. Bryson, the Court of Appeals
of M:aryland said: "But suppose Bryson not to be created
executor by the clause in the will which has been referred to,
and that the testator's design was that the persons dppointed
should act literally as trustees, without taling out any letters
testamentary .or of administration. The appointment is a
nullity, as far as the personal estate is concerned, being an
attempt to evade the provisions of our testamentary system,
in a way which the law does not tolerate." 5 Gill & Johns.
483,)88.
3. We are then brought to a consideration of the question
whether the release can be upheld, because of the authority
-vested in Abraham G. Barnett as surviving creditor, -under
the settled rule that one of two joint creditors or mortgagees,
or the survivor of them, 'may release the joint debt. Penn v.
.RutZer, 4 Dali. 351; Peop e v. ieyser, 28 N. Y. 926. The
case, so far as affects this question, stands thus:
John H. Barnett and Abraham G. Barnett borrowed $8000
of Bissell, and lent $5000 of it to Freeman, and thereby
became, at law as well as in equity, joint debtors to Bissell
in the sum of $8000, and joint' creditors of Freeman in the
sum of $5000. Rudisill executed to John H. Barnett a bond,
secured by mortgage, conditioned to pay to him the sum of
$5000, describing it in the bond as part of the sum of $8000
borrowed by the two Barnetts of Bissell, thus clearly identi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

fyimg the debt, which Rudisill's bond and mortgage were
intended to secure, as the $5000 which the two Barnetts had
lent -to Freeman, and which Freeman owed to them jointly.

Rudisil's bond and mortgage, therefore, although they ran
to John H. Barnett alone, and could have been enforced at
law in his name only, yet in equity, having been made with
the sole object of securing the payment of the debt which
Freeman owed to both Barnetts jointly, belonged to them as
joint creditors. Batswile Ittut
v..zufmau, 18 Wall 151.
Upon the death of John H. Barnett, the debt of .Freeman
was due to Abraham G. Barnett personally as surviving
creditor, with authority as such to sue for and recover it,
although he would of course be bound to account to John H.
Barnett's representatives for half of anything that he might
recover; and Xudisill's bond and mortgage continued to stand
as security for that debt, and, while the legal title in this
bond and mortgage vested in Abraham G. Barnett as executor,
yet the equitable interest in them belonged half to him as
executor and half to him personally. If he had received from
the mortgagor payment of the sum secured by the mortgage,
whether as executor or as surviving creditor; in either case
he would hold half of that sum to his own use and half as
executor. So a valid release of the whole or part of the land
mortgaged, made by hin, whether as executor or as an individual, would bar hn both in Is official and in his private
capacity; and any substituted security, received by him as a
consideration for the release, would, ultimately enure to the
benefit of the same persons, that is to say, one half tb his own
benefit, and the other half to the benefit of those entitled
under the will. In short, neither the parties to whom, nor
the amount in which, he would be liable to account for anything received upon a payment or release would be affected
by the capacity in which he assumed to act. If. he had never
been named as executor, a release of the debt by him, being
surviving creditor, would have been valid at law, and his
release of the mortgage, which was security for that debt,
would have been good in equity There is no reason, therefore, which can influence a court of equity, why he might not

WALL v. BISSELL.
Opimnon of the Court.

as surviving creditor release part of the mortgaged land from
the mortgage.
The two characters of executor and of surviving creditor
being united in. the person of Abraham G. Barnett, the court,
if he had executed the release in his own name merely, without describing himself as acting in either capacity, would
presume that he acted in the character which would make
the release valid and effectual. Yeaton v. Zynn, 5 Pet. 224,
229.
The form in winch the release was drawn up and executed
does not affect the equities of the case.
It begins with the absolute and comprehensive words, "I
hereby release from any and all lien by reason of this mort.
gage." Then follow a description of the land released, by
range, township, section and quarter section, and as that day
conveyed by udisill to Burgess, Zollinger and Kamm; and
the final clause, "Witness my. hand and seal as such executor,
January 23, 1875." No executor had been previously named
in the release, or in the mortgage, on the margin of the record
of which. the release was made. The release is signed "Abraham G. Barnett, executor of the estate of Sohn H. Barnett,

deceased."
When a person having title in property in different capacities, executes a deed in one capacity only, and holds the consideration received for the benefit of those entitled to it, a
court of equity, at least, will be slow to hold the deed invalid
for want of a more complete and formal execution.
In Caomser v. Cartwright, L. R. 7 H. L. 731, a man who was
one of two executors of his father, and also the residuary
devisee of his lands, charged with the payment of his debts,
made a mortgage of the lands, reciting that he was entitled
to them in fee, and not describing himself as executor. Lord
Romilly, X. R., held that this mortgage was not an exercise
of the power vested in the executors for paying the testator's
debts, but was only a mortgage of the beneficial interest of
the devisee, and therefore ineffectual against the testator's
general creditors. But his decree was reversed by the Lords
Justices in Chancery, and their decree was affirmed by the

/

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

House of Lords upon the motion of Lord Chancellor Cairns,
who said: "What I find is this, that the estates with which
your lordships have to deal are clearly devised to, and .the
legal estate vested in, the residuary devisee, who was also one
of the.executors. I find him selling or mortgaging, and I
find him, beyond all doubt, able to-sell and able to give to a
mortgagee a good title to the legal estate. I find that that
legal estate is in his hands, and therefore any money that is
.produced by the sale or mortgage of that legal estate, is subject to and'chargeable with the paymQnt of debts and legacies;
and that therefore the money coming into his hands must be
money which ought to be applied to the payment of debts
and legacies. But then Ifind that he himself is an executor
of the testator; that he himself is the person who ought to
hold assets impressed with the liability to satisfy debts and
lFgacies. I find, therefore, that assets which ought to be
applied to the payment of debts have come into the hands of
an executor, and that -hehas given a receipt for them. Therefore, on the one hand, the mortgagees have got the legal estate;
and on the other hand, they tave got a receipt from the
proper person for money which ought to be applied to the
payment of debts and legacies. That being so, it appears to
me that their title- is entire and complete." L. R. 7 H. L.
.740.
In West of EnffaZw Bank v. tuarch, 23 Oh. D. 138, that
decision was followed, and applied to this state of facts" One
of two brotherd, partners in business, died, leaving a will, by
which he directed his debts to be paid, and devised his real
eatate in trust with power of sale, and appointed his widow
executrix and trustee. The widow and the surviving brother
sold and conveyed real estate of which the two brothers had
been tenants in common, and which was in fact partnership
property, by deeds reciting that the brother in his own right,
and the widow as trustee under the will, were seised of it in
fee as tenants in common, but not stating that she was .executrix, or that the property was partnership property. This
conveyance was held to be valid, Lord Justice Fry saying"It is plain that. as executrix she could sell the whole of the

WALL v. BISSELL.
Opinion of the Court.

partnership property" " Then it i.said that if she had power
so to do, yet, by omitting to .state in the deeds by which she
conveyed the freehold property that she was acting as executrix, she precluded herself from asserting that she was acting
in that character. In my judgment, she did not. Itaniust be
borne in mind that, as executrix, hers cJdarly was the hand to
receive the purchase moneys, and therefore those moneys came
to the right hand, the hand of the person whose duty it was
duly to apply the assets in satisfaction of the creditors of the dedeased as well as of the beneficiaries under his will. ,Moreover,
whether she was acting as trustee or as executiix, she was
under an obligation to do the best she could for the estate.
Her fiduciary character was substantially the same, whether
she was acting as executrix or as trustee. I think, therefore,
that I should be straining at-a gnat, if I were to hold that the
mere fact, that she spoke of herself in the instruments as
trustee and not as executrix, was enough to prevent the validity of a. transaction which, in her character of executrix, I
hold that she had the power of carrying into effect." "The
legal estate passed from her, bec6use she held it as trustee, and
the money reached the hands of the person who was bound to
distribute it among the persons entitled to it. I therefore
overrule this objection." 23 Ch.D. 151-153.
In the present case, the legal title, indeed, in the bond and
moitgage of Budisill was in Abraham G. Barnett as executor,
and could not, at law, be released by him in any other capac.ity. But the legal title in the debt, for which the bond and
mortgage stood as security, and to which in equity they were
incident, was in him as surviving creditor. In equity, therefore, he had the right, as surviving creditor, to release the
mortgage, in whole or in part; and any consideration for such
a release, whether received by him as executor or as surviving
creditor, would enure to the benefit of himself, and of the estate of his testator, in equal moieties.
If he had received payment of the debt,, and given a receipt
for it as executor, he would have held the money, half as executor, and half to his own use, just as hd would have held it
if he had receipted for it in his own name only; and it cannot

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

be doubted that the addition "as executor" In the receipt
would not have prevented the payment from extinguishing
the debt, and consequently the mortgage by which it was
secured.
The release which Abraham (G.Barnett did execute was of
part of the land mortgaged, and in consideration of receiving
a mortgage of other land, the parties to the release and to the
new mortgage acting in good faith, and with no intent to defraud devisees or other persons interested. The body of the
release contains apt words of release by him (without stating
in what capacity) of the land described "from any and all
lien by reason of this mortgage;" and he is described as
executor in the tetimonium clause and the signature only.
Although he is described as executor in the new mortgage
also, a court of equity certainly could not hold that, mortgage
to convey any interest to him, as executor or otherwise, if the
release for whidh it was the consideration was void.
Abraham G. Barnett was the person authorized to make
the release, and the consideration for the release came into
his hands, for the benefit of the persons entitled to it. The
interests of no one were affected by the question in which of
his two charaeters he executed the release, and received the
new mortgage. Whether he acted as executor or as surviving
creditor, the fruits of the transaction belonged, in equ'ty, one
half to himself and one half to the estate of John H. Barnett.
If the whole debt had belonged to him alone, the description of hunsef -as executor in the release could not have prevented its operating upon his interest m the debt, and in the
mortgage by which that debt was secured. As the survivor of
two jomnt creditors, he had the same power (independently of
any authority as executor) to release the debt and the mortgage, as if he had been the sole creditor. The release, therefore, notwithstanding the superfluous description of the releasor as executor, was, by reason of his being surviving creditor, binding upon the interests of the representatives of the
deceased creditor, as well as upon his own; and upon this.
ground the
Decree is am d.

