BOWERMAN v. ROGERS.
Syllabus.

to it which may not meet the approval of this court, they
nevertheless determine the law of Mtassaohusetts on that sub-

ject.
Mmi. JUSTICE lh&n&, with whom concurred 11R. JUSTIcE
FIELD, dissented upon the grounds:

1, That the question whether the provision in c. 84, ยง 2 of
'the General Statutes of Massachusetts that "whoever travels
on the Lord's Day, except for necessity or charity, shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding ten dollars" is a bar to a
recovery in this action, is a question of general law upon which
the Federal courts are at liberty to follow their own convictions; and,
2, That it is settled by _P .ade~pkia, Timington, awu Bal-

timore Bagoadv. Ph

Aia,and Havre de &-ace Towboat

Co., 23 How. 209, that such a state statute is not a bar to a recovery in an action like this in a Federal court.

BOWERIAN v. ROGERS.
BEMiOR TO THE CIROUP

COURT OF THD UNITED STATES FORTH

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 187. Argued :February 16, 1858.- Decided Mareb 19, 2888.
From the evidence in this case it is clear that the assignor of the defendants In error employed the plaintiffs in error as their agents to enter at
the Custom House in New York importations of sugar Imported by them,
and, after protest, to commence suits to recover an excess of duty imposed upon the importations, and that the plaintiffs In error undertook to
perform those services; and, It being settled in actions brought by other
persons under similar circumstances and on like mportations, that such
duties were illegally exacted, and the plaintiffs in error having failed to
commence suits -within the period limited by law to recover such as
were illegally exacted from the assignor of the defendants in error,
Held, that the 3udgment of the court below for their recovery must be
affirmed.

OOTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court,

Tnn o sE is stated in the opinion of the court.
Thie defendants in error were assignees of Burgess, and were
admitted by the court, under the provisions of the code o
lNew York to appear as such, and as plaintiffs there to prose,
cute the suit to judgment.
.v.

_dwsn B. Snmitk for plaintiffs m error.

.r.

Everett P.

Yn.

usrien MI

W/zeelar for defendants in error.
Lm delivered the opinion of the court.

The writ of error in this case is to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
fork. This judgment was entered upon a verdict rendered
-bya jury in favor of the plaintiffs, Benjamin F. and Walter
Burgess, under the peremptory instructions of the court, for
the sum of $6105.77, agains the defendants, Bowerman
Brothers.
Burgess & Sons were dealers in sugars and molasses; residing in Boston, and Bowerman Brothers were sugar brokers,
residing in New York. Burgess & Sons had a large part of
the articles in which they dealt, either for themselves or as
agents for others, landed in New York, and entered at the
custom-house there. In such cases they employed Bowerman
Brothers as their agents, and it is not disputed that this agency
extended to the entry of these goods at the custom-house in
M.w York, as well as to the sale of them afterward. With
regard to two shipments of goods so entered there, from two
different vessels, a question arose as to the duties assessed upon
them by the collector. This controversy proceeded as far as
the payment of the duties through Bowerman Brothers, followed by an appeal from the decision of the collector to the
Secretary of the Treasury, and a protest against the fnal action
of the Department. All this was attended to and faithfully
performed in due time by the defendants. They, however,
did not bring suit to recover back the duties so paid, and the

BOWERMA.N v. ROGERS.
Opimon of the Court.

single question to be decided here is, whether it was the duty
of Bowerman Brothers, under the circumstances of their employment, to have brought such a, suit against the collector for
the excess of duties claimed to have been imposed by him on
these importations.
The case arises in this way. Suits were brought by other
paxties who had paid similar duties upon like importations,
and recoveries had against the collector upon precisely the
.same grounds mentioned in the protest of the plaintiffs in this
suit, and in a case brought to this court the error of the Treasury Department was established. But the statute allowing
recov.eres to be had against the collector for excessive duties
which have been paid requires the suits to be brought within
nnety days after such payment has been made, and that
period had elapsed before the decisions in those cases. It was
for that reason too late for Burgess & Sons to cause suit to be
brought to recover back their alleged excessive payments.
Bowerman Brothers maintain -that, as mere sugar brokers,
it was no part of their duty to cause suit to be brought on
account of the imposition of excessive duties, and that they
are not liable, therefore, for the failure to do so, by reason of
which it is very clear the sum recovered in this suit was lost
to the plaintiffs. - On the other hand, Burgess & Sons insist
that, whether it was a part of their duty as brokers to institute such suit or not, they had come under an obligation to do
It by reason of conversation or correspondence which passed
between the parties. The whole of this correspondence, and
the verbal testimony of one of the plaintiffs which is very
brief, is found in the bill of exceptions; and we concur with
the judge who tried the case below that this correspondence
itself makes out the obligation of Bowerman Brothers to have
caused the institution of such a suit.
About the only piece of verbal testimony that is of any consequence in the consideration of this matter is the statement
of Mr. Burgess on the stand, that his firm fully relied upon
the defendants.to attend to the matter of bringing such a suit.
Some of the letters produced, which passed between them,.
make this very plain.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court..

On Tanuary27, 1881K, the plaintiffs wrote to the defendants
as follows:
"We notice the tests and have seen the sample. They are
certainly very beautiful sugars for their class. Now, we feel
anxious as to the duties on the dry test, but if ihey should be
decided against us we must protest as soon as duties are paid,
and place the matter m the handg of a firstclass lawyer, the
one employed by Mfessrs. Knowlton, perhaps, unless you know
of a better, to commence the suit as soon as possible, but we
hope all tis will not be necessary.
"If the sugars are marked up on dry test, it is necessary to
formally protest against the decision of the collector and then
appeal to the Secretary of the Treasury. This is the first
skep, and when the duties are paid to enter suit"
To this the 'defendants replied on the next day: "Your
favor of yesterday is received and contents noted, all of which
will be duly attended to."
Several other letters then follow concerning other imlortations and protests made by Bowerman Brothers on behalf
of plaintiffs against the duties levied on those goods. On
March 31, 1881, the plaintiffs wrote to the defendants: "Of
course you will duly appeal from the government assessing
duties by tests." On April 15, the defendants wrote to Bur-.
gess & Sons as follows:
" We have your favor of yesterday and enclose herewith
the Secretary of the Treasury's reply to our appeal of March
5th, (sugars per ' Santiago,' Jan. 25, '81.) The collector's decision is affirmed. We suppose you will wait the decision in
the Welch suit before commencing proceedings.
"'Please advise us."
To this the plaintiffs replied on April 16, as follows:
"We are in receipt of your favor of yesterday enclosing thle
reply of the Secretary of the Treasury to your appeal of
March 5 regarding sugars ex -Santiago, Jan. 26. We would
await the decision in the Welch suit before commencing pro
ceedings,.if there istime.
"Please keep us posted in the sugar case."

BOWERMAXI "

i.

ROGERS.

Opinion of the Court.

On April .27, 1881, Bowerma. Brothers wrote to plaintiffs
as follows:
" Your favor of yesterday is received. The ioto -sugars
are about bqlf out of ship,-and we send you to-night by express samples and tests of each mark. Our market is quiet
but strong. We hear that the government has decided to
appeal from the decision (in New York) in the Welch case.
Sales reported as below."
On June 18,1881, Bowerman Brothers again wrote to plaintiffs as follows:
"1Wepresume yon.!ave in mind the Santiago's cargo - centrifugal, Augelita-which arived here July 6th, 1880, the
most of which was raised on polariscope test, one-fourth cent
and 25 per cent above the legitimate rate of entry on Dutch
standard, and will commence suit against the government in
due season."
To this latter the plaintiffs, Burgess & Sons, replied on June
20, as follows:
"We have your favor of the 18th, in which you say, 'We
presume you have in mind the Santiago's cargo -centrifugal,
Angelita -which arrived July 6, '80, the most of which was
raised on polariscope test, one-fourth and 25 per cent above
the legitimate rate of duty on Dutch standard, and will commence suit against the government in due'season.
"The cargo you refer to did not pay-at all, as we understand, duty above the Dutch standard, it having jpst escaped
on dry test.
"'Of course we must not let any of our cases escape due
attention. We attend here to all our Boston cases and enter
suits as fast as they come arcund, and we suppose you can do
the same as our agents in New Yorla- Are we right?- Please
look into every case and keepus timely informped and whether
there is anything for us to do personally or Vy power."
We think the whole of this, correspondence leads to the
inevitable conclusion that the defendants, either expressly or
by fair implication, assumed the duty of causing suit to be
brought -within a reasonable time; living, as they did, in New
York where the transactions all occurred, where the suit

OOTOBER TER3,

1887.

Opimon of the Court.

must be brought, and being frequently admonished by the
letters of plaintiffs to see tha suit was brought in due time.
This is especially evident from the last letter quoted above,
in which the expectation of plaintiffs is distinctly stated that
defendants would cause suit to be brought "Im due season,"
and an inquiry made whether they are right in that supposition. They had by the statement in their letter, "1Please look
into every case and keep us timely informed and whether
there is anything for us to do -personally or by power," 'which
is not demed, raised an implied acknowledgment 9n the part
of the defendants that they w6uld attend to this matter.
Taking the evidence -21 together, it is very clear that Burgess & Sons understood that Bowerman Brothers would attend
to the whole affair from the beginning to the end, and, without regard to their special occupation as mere sugar brokers,
would take charge of all that was necessary to secure the
rights of the plaintiffs in the matter of paying duties, making
proper protests, getting the goods through the custom-house,
-and seeking redress by suit against the collector if that became necessary. And that they might be sure that they were
not mistaken in this understanding, the letter of the 20th of
June was written, which required in good faith that if Bowerman Brothers did not consider themselves charged with the
duty of having a suit brought m due time, they should have
made a discajimer of it by an immediate answer. It cannot be denied that the loss by Burgess & Sons of the sum
of money found, in the verdict, was due to the failure of
Bowerman Brothers to fulfil faithfully the obligation in this
particular which they had assumed in this correspondence,
and which Mr.'Burgess swears his firm relied upon them to
perform.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is
AffirmecZ

