OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

of classification. -Whether this was the best that could have
been done is not for us to decide. 'Our province is only to determine whether i 1 could be done at all, and under any aircumstances. I it could, the legislature must decide for itself,
sub3ect to no control- from us, whether the common good requires that it should be done." 94: U. S. 163, 164.
,.Tudgment afJlqmed.

BO1NAIAX v. NEBRASKA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COU'T OF THE STATE OF NEBRASK
"o.50. Submitted Octoberfl, 1887. -Decided

.

October 17, 1887.

A person convicted of crnme in the court below having sued out a writ,.of
error whiel was docketed here, and baying escaped from the jurisdiction

of the court below, this court declines to hear the case, and orders it
removed from the 4ocket unless the plaintiff in error comes within the
jurisdiction of the court below on or before the last day of this term.

Tzm case is stated in the opinion.
Xr. OCark'3 0. TWeedm and Xi.
tiff in error.
.N.

. E.

fagoom for plain-

Ti lam Leeme for defendant in error.

MR. CHIF JusTiOn WA=rrT delivered the opinion of the court.

It appearing that during the pendency of this writ the
plaintiff in error has escaped, and is not Aow within the control of the court below, either actually, by being in custody,
or constructively, by being out on bail, it is ordered that the
submission of the cause be set aside and that unless the .plaintiff in error is brought or comes -within the jurisdiction and
under the control of the court below on or before the last
day of. this term the cause be thereafter left off the docket
until directions tb the contrary. Smitk v. UJitaZ Sates, 94.
U. & 97.

ADDINGTON v. BURKE.
Opinion of the Court.

ADDINGTONq v. BURKE.
MMOR To THE CIMUer COURT OF T1E

m1rED STATES FOR T.

1NORTHERN DISIrIOT OF TEXAS.

Io. 3, Submitted October 13,188.-Decded October17, 1887.
The parties baving compromised the suit eq.d stipulated that the plaintiff in
error shall dismiss it, the court makes an ordef to enforce the stipulation, unless cause to the contrary be sbown.

Tim case is stated in the opinion.
ff.

R oerson for plaintiffs in error.

Mr. ME.
X. Crawford for defendants in error.
Y

C mF
=.

JusTOWAmIr

delivered the opinion of the court.

It having been suggested that this cause has been compromised and the debt paic and that a stipulation has been
entered into by the parties to the effect that the plantiff in
error shall dismiss the suit,
It is ordered that unless the plaintiffs in error show causeto the contrary, on or before the fourth Mvtonday in lovember,
the writ be dismissed.
The Clerk will serve a copy ot this order at once on the
counsel for the plaintiffs in error of record, through the mail
This order having been duly served, and return thereof
made, on the 5th of December, 1887,
Mm. CHmv USTi0E WmT.E announced the following order.
This cause is dismissed under the order made October 17,
1887, no cause having been shown to the contrary as then required.
The Clerk will preserve as part of the record the evidence
of service of the ofder of October 17.

