698

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

LYON

v. PERITN

AN

GAFF

MANUFAOTURING

COONPANY.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UHITED STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF I3DIAlNA.
H9. 201. Argued April 2,1888.-Declded April 16,188.

A fuhal decree in a suit in Equity that "the cause being submitted to the
court upon bill, answer and replication, and having been duly considered,
the court finds, adjudges and decrees that the equities are with the defendant" and dismissing the bill, Is an adjudication on the merits of the controversy and constitutes a bar to further litigation on the same subject
between the parties; and it is not open to the complainant to show in a
subsequent suit In equity between the same parties, on the same cause of
action, that the decree was made in his absence and default, and that no
proof had been filed in the cause on either side.
THE following is the qase, as stated by the court.

This is a suit in equity brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States lor the District of Indiana by Nelson Lyon
against The Pern and Gaff Manufacturing Company, praying
an injunction and .damages for an alleged infringement of
reissued letters-patent No. 9198, dated May 11, 1880, owned
by complainant, for an improvement in "metallic stiffeners for
boot and shoe heels."
The bill of complainant, after the usual recitals necessary in
a suit of this character, among other things, sets forth that
before the commencement of this action, to wit, in September, 1881, complainant having been informed and believing
that the defendant was manufacturing an instrument which
infringed said reissued letters-patent, filed his bill in equity
against the said defendant in the United States Circuit Court
for the Southern District of Ohio to restrain said defendant
from further infringement; that the company appeared therein
and answered, setting f6rth, among other things, the defence
that said reissued letters-patent was invalid for want of novelty
in the invention, and -'as not granted in accordance with la*':,
denying also that the instrument used mfrimed the said

LYON v. PERIN MANUFACTURING

CO.

Citations for Appellants.

reissued letters-patent, and denying that complainant was
entitled to any of the relief therein prayed, to which answer
complainant filed his replication; that the statutory time for
taking testimony having expired, and an extension thereof not
having been granted, and the complainant not having been
able to get the proof of theinfringement in time, no evidence
of the facts, matters, or things alleged in his complaint was
offered or taken, and upon. the call of the case before the court,
counsel for complainant not appearing, a decree was entered,
dismissing the bill; and that none of the issues were tried, and
no decision rendered on the merits thereof, the suit having been
dismissed merely for want of prosecution.
The defendants interposed a plea that the prior adjudication
and decree of the suit mentioned in said plea (which is the same
suit set forth in said bill of complaint) is a bar to the present
suit. The court below found the plea to be good and sufficient; thereupon complainant filed his replication. The cause
being at issue was referred to a master in chancery to take
testimony, and to return the same into court with his conclusion of law thereon. Testimony was taken, and the master
made and filed his report, in and by which said master coneluded, as a matter of law, that the decree mentioned in said
plea stands as an absolute adjudication of the rights of the
parties upon the merits, and reported and found that the avermeuts of the plea were sustained.by the evidence.
Exceptions to said master's report having been overruled by
the court and the report confirmed, a decree was entered that
the defendants' plea was well taken in law and sustained
by the proofs, and the bill was dismissed. An appeal fron
this decree brings the case here.
.Mn. T 1iar
..EZ.ing for appellant cited: Allm v. Blunt,
2 :Robb Pat. Cas. 288; S. ยฃ7. 3 Story, 492; 1 Greenleaf Ev.,
Redfield's ed. 563, ยง 528; C'onzwel v. Sao Coznty, 91 U. S.
351; Bvuer' v. Zmhaew6er, 10 0. G. 907; De Florez v. 1aynolds,
16 Blatchford, 397, 408; 1?urnfo'd Mernical TForks v. Hlecker,
2 Baun. & Ard. Pat. Cas. 351; Aine van .Diamond RoX'
Boring Co. v. Sheldon, 4 Ban. & Ard. Pat. Cas. 551; Car-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opnion of the Court.

rington, v: .Rolly, 1 Dickens, 280; Bosse v. RW4, 4 Johns. Oh.
299; _Badger v. Badger, 1 Cliff. 23T; Porterv. YFalughn, 26
Vermont, .62 ; .,usselZ v PZace, 94 U. S. 606; Bank of the
United &ates v. BeverZy, 1 How. 134; Rughes v. United
Stam, .aWall 232; TIakden, v. Bodley, 14. Pet. 156; Oscanyanz v. Wincheter Arms Co., 103 U. S. 261.
No appearance for appellee.
]a. JsTiop T.AmAn, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The only material question for consideration is as to the
effect of the decree of the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Southern District of Ohio, rendered May 4 1882,
which is correctly found to be- still in full force, as a liar to
the prosecution ef this suit.
It is well settled that, in order to render a matter res adjucata, there must be a concurrence of the four conditions,

viz.: (1) Identity in thw tkg sued for; (2) Identity of Mw
camse of actiorn; (3) Identity of persons and parties to the
action; and (4) Identity o$f the guality i1. the person for or
against whom the-claim is made. 2 Bouv.. 467. AJl these
elements or conditions exist in this case, as shown by the master's report, which was to the effect that the averments of said
plea were sustained by the evidence; that -there was no controversy as to the identity of the cause of action, or of the
identity of the- partiss in the two suits; that the bill was
sworn to by the complainant, and the answer was sworn to
by the defendants, and the cause submitted in due course;
and that the decree rendered in the suit, pending in the court
of Ohio was, as it professed to be, an absolute adjudication of
the rights of the parties upon the merits, without any qualifying clause, and was conclusive of the rights attempted to be
litigated in this case.
The dispute, however, seems to be as to -the nqtre of the
former judgment-that is, whether it is a final judgment or
decree. It is contended on the part of appellant that such

LYON v. PERIN MANUFACTURING

CO.

Opinion of the-Court.

judgment was merely one of nol. -ros. - a decree entered by
default - and is, therefore, not a bar to the prosecution of

this suit. To sustain this view of the case he has recourse
to a statement by the.clerk of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Ohio, (wherein the decree
was rendered,) under his hand and seal, dated nearly two
years after said decree was rendered, to the effect that no
proof- or, testimony was filed in said cause in his office either
for the complainant or the defendant; that at the time of the
granting of said decree, :May 4, 1882, the complainant did not
appear, nor was he represented by counsel; and that said
decree dismissing the complainant's bill was granted on default of the complainant.
The decree itself is -in the words and figures following, to
wit:
"The United States of America,
8
Western Division of the Southern District of Ohio, I
"At a stated term of the Circuit Court of the Western
Division of the Southern District of Ohio, in the sixth judicial circuit of the United States of America, begun and had
in the court-roonis at the city of Cincinnati, Ohio, m said district, on the first Tuesday of April, being the fourth day of that
month, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred
and eighty-two, and of the independence of the United States
of America the one hundred and sixth.
"Present: The Hon. John -Baxter, Circuit Judge, and Hon.
Philip B. Swing, District Judge.
"On Thursday, the fourth day of Mfay, 1882, among the
-proceedings-had were the following, to wit:
"Nelson Lyon
3180. Yn Rquity
IV.
The Penn and Gaff Manufacturing Co.1
"This cause coming on for hearing, and, being submitted to
the court upon bill- answer, and replication, and having been
duly considered, the court finds, adjudges, and decrees that Me
eguities re witA tw dV'eda nt; that the bill of complaint be

dismissed, and that defendant recover its costs, to be taxed."

OCTOBER TERAI, 1887.

Opinion of the Court.

This is the record to which the court must look, and not
to the statement ef the clerk of the-court made two years
afterwards. This decree on its face is absolute in its terms, is

an adjudication of the merits of the controversy, and, therefore, constitutes a bar to any further litigation of the same
_subject between the same parties. As was said by this court
in -Duran v. ssex Comiany, 7 Wall. 107, 109, "A decree
of that kind, unless made because of some defect in the plead-

ings, or for want of jurisdiction, or because the cqiplainaut
has an adequate remedy at law, or upon some other ground
which does not go to the merits, is a final determination.
Where words of qualification, such as 'without prejudice,' or
other terms indicating a right or privilege to take farther
legal proceedings on the subject, do not accompany the decree, it is presumed to be rendered on the merits."
To the same effect see Bigelow v. Tinmdor, 1 Gray, 299,
301, where it is said : "Sometimes, indeed, a party plaintiff in
equity, who, because he is not prepared with his proofs, or for
other xeasons, desires not to go into a hearing, but rather to
have his bill dismissed, in the nature of a discontinuance or
non-suit in an action at law, may be allowed to do so; but we
believe the uniform practice in such case is to enter ' dismissed
without prejudice."
Likewise Cooper Eq. Pl. 270, as follows: "A plea in bar,
stating a dismissal of a former bill, is conclusive against a new
bill, if the disrmssal was upon hearing, and if that dismissal be
not, in direct terms, 'without prejudice.'
See also Story's
Eq. Bl. ยง T93, and authorities there cited.
The authorities to sustain this miew of the case might oe
multiplied, but those cited are sufficient, and demonstrate the
uniformity of the rule. It is clear to this court that the
decree below dismissing the bill is in harmony with the law,
and it is, therefore,
Afflimed

