CASES ADJUDGED
1i THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OOTOBER TERM, 1887.

WILLAMETTE IRON BRIDGE COMPANY v. HATOIT.
A.PPEAL

FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF OREGON.

No. 80. Argued November 28, 29,188.-Decded march 19, 18M.

On a pure-bill of review nothing will avail for a reversal of the decree but
errors of law apparent on the record.
There must be a direct statute of the United States in order to bring Nthin
the scope of its laws obstructions and nuisances in navigable streams
within a stdte; such obstructions and nuisances being offences against
the laws of the States within which the navigable waters lie, but no
offence against the United States in the absence of a statute.
The provision In the "act for the admission of Oregon Into the Union,"
11 Stat. 383, c. 33, ยง 2, that" all the navigable waters of said State shall
be common highways and forever free, as well to the inhabitants of said
State as to all other citizens of the United States, without any tax, duty,
Impost; or toll therefor," does not refer to physical obstructions of those
waters, but to political r- --lations which would hamper the frecdoin of
zommerce.
Until Congress acts respectig navigable streams entirely withi a state, the
State has plenary power; but Congress is not concluded by anything that
the State or individuals by its authority or acquiescence may have done,
from assuming entire control, and abating any erections that may have
been made, and preventing any other from being made except in conformity with such regulations as it may impose.
The appropriation by Congress of money to be expended in improving the
navigation of the Willamette River was no assumption of police power
over it.
VOL. CX-V-1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Cou.
Congress by conferring tire privilege of a port of entry upon a municipality,
does not come in conflict with the police power of a State exercised in
bridging its own navigable rivers below such port. Passaw BXcIge Cases,
3 Wall. 782, 793, App. applied.
State of Penzsyloanna v. WMeeling & Belmont Bridge Co., 13 How. 518, dis-

tinguislied.

BrLL Or RF-vEw. Decree dismissing the bill. Complanant
appealed. The case is stated in the opinion of the c .,urt.

-3& JotA .A&bjja for appellant. .r.

2Bvf

.MelZWV fled

a brief for same.
21r. T 1 . -DoDpA for appellees.
fm. JUsTicE BrE-LEY delivered the opmion'of the court.

This is a bill of review filed by the appellants, & corporation
of Oregon, to obtain the reversal of a decree made by the court
below against them in favor of Hatch and Lownsdale, the
appellees. The ease is shortly this. On the 18th of October,
1878, the legislature of Oregon passed an act entitled "An act
to authorize the construction df a bridge on the Willamette
River between the city of Portland and the city of East Port]and, in Mukltnomah County, State of Oregon;" by which it
was enacted as follows, to wit: "Be t enackt, &c., That it
shall be lawful for the Portland Bridge Company, a corporation duly incorporated under and in conformity with the.lairs
of the State of Oregon, or its assigns, and that.said corporation
or its assigns be and are hereby authorized anil empowered to
construct, build, maintain, use, or cause to be constructed, built
and maintained or used, a bridge across the Willamette River
between Portland and East Portland in 'Multnomah County,
State of Oregon, for any and all purposes of travel or commerce,
said bridge to be erected at any time within six years after the
passage and approval of this act, at such point or location on
the banks of said river, on and along any of the streets of
either of said cities of Portland and East Portland as may be
selected or determined on by said corporation or its assigns,
on or above M[orrmson Street of said city of Portland and If

Wl IEA METTE IRON BRIDGE CO. v. HATCH.
Opnuon of the Court.

Street of said city of East Portland, the same to be deemed a
lawful structure: Provided, that there sh ]l be placed and
maintamed-m said bridge a good and sufficient draw of not
less than one hundred feet in the clear in width of a passage
way, and so constructed and maintained as not to injuriously
impede and obstruct the free navigation of said river, but-so
as to allow the easy and reasonable passage of vessels through
said bridge, and provided, that the approaches on the Portland
side to said bridge shall conform to the piesent gTade of Front
Street in said- city of Portland."
In the month of July, 1880, the appellants, the Willamette
Iron Bridge Company, claiming to be assignees of the Portland
Bidge Company, and to act under and by authority of said
law, began the construction of a bridge across the Willamette
:River from the foot of Morrison Street, in the city of Portland,.
and proceeded in the work so far as to erect piers on the bed
of the river, with a draw pier in the i3hannel on which a, pivot
draw was to be placed with a clear passage way on each side,
when open, of 100 feet in width, or, as the appellants allege,
105 feet in width.
On the 3d of January, 1881, whilst the appellants were thus
engaged in erebting the bridge, Hatch and Lownsdale filed a
bill- in the Circuit Court of the United States for an injunction
to restrain the appellants from further proceeding with the
work, and to compel them to abate and remove the structures
already placed in the river. This bill described the comphainants therein as citizens of the United States residing at Portland,
in the State of Oregon, and the defendants as a corporation
organized under the laws of that State, havilg its office and
prncipal place of business at Portland, and alleged that the
Willamette River is a known public river of the United States,
situate within the State of Oregon, navigated by licensed and
enrolled and registered sea-going vessels engaged in commerce with foreign nations and with other States, upon the
ocean and by way of the Columbia River, also a known public
and navigable river of the United States, from its confluence
with the Columbia River to the docks and wharves of the port
of Portland, and that, up to and beyond the wharves and ware-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

houses of the complainants, Hatch and ILownsdale, it is within
the ebb and flow of the ocean tides. That, by the act of Congress of February 14th, 1859, admitting the State of Oregon
into the Union, it is declared "that all the navigable waters of
said State shall be common highways and forever free, as well
to the inhabitants of said State as to all other citizens of the
United States, without any tax, duty, impost, or toll therefor."
11 Stat. 383. That Congress has established a port of entry at
the city of Portland, on the Willamette River, and has required
vessels which navigate it to be enrolled and licensed, etc., and

has frequently directed the improvement of the navigation of
the said river, and appropriated money for that purpose-; and
by an act approved February 2d, 1870, giving consent to the
erection of another bridge across said river from Portland to
East Portland, asserted the powers of the United States to regulate commerce upon said river and to prevent obstruction to
the navigation of the same, and in said act declared: "But
until the Secretary of War approves the plan and location of
said bridge and notifies the said corporation, association, or
company of the same, the bridge shall not be built or commenced." The complainants further stated that Iownsdale
was the owner and Hatch the lessee of a certain wharf and
warehouses in Portland, situated about '750 feet above the-proposed bridge, heretofore accessible to and used by sea-going
vessels and others; and that Hatch is the owner oI a steam
tow-boat, used for towing vessels up and down the river to and
from the said wharves and warehouses and others in the city;
that vessels of 20.00 tons have been in the habit of navigating
the river for a mile above the site of the proposed bridge, and
that the said river ought to remain free and unobstructed. But
they charge that the bridge and piers will b'e a serious obstruction to this commerce, that the passage ways will not be sufficient for sea-going vessels with their tugs; that the bridge is
being constructeA diagonally, and not at right angles, to the
current of the river; that it will arrest and pile up the floating
ice and timber in high stages of water in such a way as to
obstruct the passage of vessels; and, in various other particulars stated in the bill. it is charged that the bridge will be a

WILLAMETTE IRON BRIDGE CO. v. HATOH.
Opinion of the Court
serious obstruction to the navigation of the river. The complainants contended that the act of the legislature, authorizing
the bridge, contravenes the laws of the United States declaring
the river free, and -was not passed with the consent of Congress, and was a wrongful assumption of power oil the part of
the State, and alleged that the pretended assignment by the
Portland Bridge Company to the defendants (thb Willamette
Iron Bridge Company) was not in good faith, and was not
authorized by the directors of the former; and stated various
other matters of alleged irregularity and illegality on the-part
of the Portland Company and the defendants. They also stated
that the bridge was not being constructed in conformity with
the requirements of the state law; that by reason of its diagonal position across the river, the thread of the current formed
an acute angle with the line of the bridge, and that the draws
do not afford more than 87 feet of a passage -way for the pissage of vessels; and that vessels will be unable to pass through
said bridge for at least four months of the .busiest shipping
season of the year.
The defendants kn that case, the Willamette Tron Bridge
Company, filed an answer in which they admitted that they
were building the bridge, and claned to do so as assignees m
good faith of the Portland Bridge Company, under and by
virtue of the act of the legislature before mentioned, but
denied the allegations of the bill with regard to the mjurous effects of the bridge upon the navigation of the river, and
averred that they were complying m every -respect with the
state law
The cause being put at issue, and proofs being taken on the
229d of October, 1881, a decree was made in favor of the complainants for a perpetual injunction against the building of the
bridge, and for an abatement of the portion already built.
The decision of the case was placed principally on the ground
that the bridge would be, and that the piers were, an obstruction to the navigation of the river, contrary to the act of Congress passed in 1S59, admitting Oregon into the Union, and
declaring " that all the navigable waters of the said State shall
be common highways, and forever free, as well to the inhabi-

OCTOBER TERAI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

tants of said State as to all other citizens of the United States,
without any tax, duty, impost, or toll therefor;" and that,
without the consent of Congress, a state law was not sufficient
authority for the erection of such a structure; and, even if it
was, the bridge did not conform to the requirements of the
state law. See Hatch v. Titlarmett Iro Br dge Co., 7 Sawyer, 127, 141. The defendants took an appeal which was not
prosecuted; but after the decision of this court in the case of
.EscanaaCo. v. 07cago, 107 U. S.678, they filed the present
bill of review for the reversal of the decree.
The reasons assigned for reversal are, amongst others, that
the court erred in holding and decreeing as follows, to wit:
'1st. That the bridge, where and as being constructed, was a
serious obstruction to the navigation of the Willamette River,
contrary to the act of Congress of February 14th, 1859, admitting the State of Oregon into the Union, which declares that
all.the navigable waters of the State shall be common highways and forever free to all citizens of the Umted States.
2d. That the said court, under ยง 1 of the act of March 3d,
1875, giving it jurisdiction of a suit arising under an act of
Congress, has authority to restrain parties from violating said
act by obstructing the navigation of any of said waters at the
suit of any one injured thereby.
3d. That the proposed bridge is and will be a nuisance and
seri6us impediment to the navigation of said river.
4th. That the legislature of the State of Oregon has not
the power to say absolutely that a bridge may be built with
only a draw of one hundred feet.
5th. That the Willamette Iron Bridge Company, as the
assignee of the Portland Bridge Company, was not authorized by the act of the legislative assembly of Oregon to
construct the said bridge, because it would be a violation of
the said act of Congress of February 14th, 1859, admitting
*theState of Oregon in the Unloi, and was and is, therefore,
void.
6th. That the defendant should be perpetually enjoined
from constructing or proceeding with the construction of said
bridge; and

WnILAMETTE IRON BRIDGE CO. v. HATCH.
Opinion of the Court.

7th. That the defendant should be required to abate and remove out of said river all piers, foundations, &c., which it has
placed or constructed therein.
This bill was demurred to, and the court affirmed the decree
in the original sdit and dismissed the bill of review. TFllamette
I.ro Bridge Co. v. .Iatch, 9 Sawyer, 643, S. . 19 Fed. Rep.
347. The present appeal is taken from this decree.
On a pure bill of review, like the one in this case, nothing
will avail for a reversal of the decree but errors of law apparent on the record. TwAiting v. Bank rf the Cnited States, 13
ret. 6; Putnam v. Day, 22 Wall. 60; Buigton v. HJar'vey,
95 U. S. 99; Thomopson v. 13faxwll, 95 U. S. 391, 397; Beard
v. Zurts, 95 U. S. 434; Shhdton v. Van -eeek, 106 U. S. 532;
'7cMe v. Stewart, 111 U. S. 776. Does any such error appear
in the present case ? The court below has decided in the negative. We are called upon to determine whether that decision
was correct. It must be assumed that the questions of fact,
at issue between the parties, were decided correctly by the
court upon its view of the law applicable to the case. But the
important question is, was its view of the law correct? The
parties in the cause, both plaintiffs and defendants, were cltizens of the State of Oregon. The court therefore must necessarily have held, as we know from its opinion that it did hold,
that the case was one arsing under the constitution or laws of
the United States.
The gravamen of the bill was, the obstruction of the navigation of the Willamette River by the defendants, by the erection of the bridge which they were engaged in building. The
defendants pleaded the authority of the state legislature for
the erection of the bridge. The court held that the work was
not done in conformity with the requirements of the state law;
but whether it were or not, it lacked the assent of Congress,
which assent the court held was necessary in, view of that provision in the act of Congress admitting Oregon as a State,
which has been referred to. The court held that this provision
of the act was tantamount to a declaration that the navigation
of the Villamette River should not be obstructed or interfered
with; and that any such obstruction or interference, without

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.

Opinion of the Court.

the consent of Congress, whether by state sanction or not, was
a violation of the act of Congress, and that the obstruction
complained of was in violation of said act. And tins is the
principal and important question in this case, namely, whether
the erection of a bridge over the Willamette River. at Port,
land was a violation of said" act of Congress. If it was not, if
it could not be, if the act did not apply to obstructions of this
kind, then the case did not arise under the constitution or laws
of the United States, unless-under some other law referred to
,in the bill.
The power of Congress to pass laws for the regulation of
the navigation of public rivers, and to prevent any and all
obstructions therein, is not questioned. But until it does pass
some such law, there is no common law of the United States
which prohibits obstructions and nuisances in navigable rivers,
unless it be the maritime law, administered by the courts of
admiralty and maritin jurisdiction. N o precedent, however,
exists for the enforcement of any such law, and if such law
could be enforced, (a point which we do not undertake to
decide,) it would not avail to sustain the bill in equity filed
in the original case. There must be a direct statute of
the United States in order to bring within the scope of its
laws, as administered by the courts of law and equity, obstructions and nuisances in navigable streams within the States.

Such obstructions and nuisances are offences against the
laws of the States within which the navigable waters lie,
and may be indicted or prohibited as such, but they are
not offences against United States laws which do not exist;

and none such exist except what are to be found on the statute
book. Of course, where the litigant parties are citizens of
different States, the circuit courts of the United States may
take jurisdiction on that gTound, but on no other. This is
the result of so many cases, and expressions of opinion by this
court, that it is almost superfluous to cite authorities on the
subject. We refer to the following by way of illustration:
WMilsor vr. Blaek Bird C2'eek Co., 2 Pet. 245 ; Pollard'sLessee
v. Eagan, 3 How 212, 229, PassaicBrzdges, 3 Wall. 782 App.,
Ggirnan v.. .Philade.phzi, 3 Wall. 713, 721; Pound v Turek,

WILLAMETTE IRON BRIDGE CO. v. HATCH.
Opinion of the Court.

95 U. S.459; .Ecanaba Co. v. Gldcago, 107 U. S. 678 ;' CrcZwe!Z
v. Amer can Bridge Company,113 U. S. 205; Hamilton N%. ieksburg &c.R ailroac Co., 119 U. S. 280, iHuse v. Glove;, 119 U. S.
.543; &
s v. .Xaw7stee Elver Imp. Co., 123 U. S. 2S8, Transportatio, Co. v. J'Pakersburg,107 U S. 691, 700. The usual
case, of course, is that m which the acts complained of are clearly
supported by a state statute; but that really makes no difference.
Whether they are conformable, or not conformable, to the

state law relied on, is a state question, not a federal one. The
failure of state functionaries to prosecute for breaches of the
state law, does not confer power upon United States functionaries to prosecute under a United States law, when there is no
such law in existence. But, as we have stated, the court below
held that the act of Congress of 1859 was a law which prohibited any obstructions or impediments to the navigation of

the public rivers of Oregon, including that of the Willamette
River. Was it such au act? Did it have such an effect2
The clause in question had its origin m the 4th article of
the compact contained in the Ordinance of the Old Congress
for the governmentr6f-the Territory North West of the Ohio,
adopted July 13th, 1787, in which it was amongst other
things declared that "the navigable waters leading into the
Mlississippi and St. Lawrence, and the carrying places between
the same, shall be connon highways and forever free, as well
to the inhabitants of the said territory, as to the citizens of
the United States, and those of any other States that may be
admitted into the confederacy, without any tax, inpost, or
duty therefor." 1 Stat. 52 n. This court has held, that when
auy new State was admitted into the Umuon from the North
West Territory, the Ordinance in question ceased to have any
operative force in limiting its powers of legislation as compared
with those possessed by the original States. On the admission
of any such new State, it at once became entitled to and
possessed all the rights of dominion and sovereignty which
belongedtothem. See the cases of Pollard'sZessee v. .agan,
nluaeipality,3 Uow. 589; Escanaba
supra; Pernmoli v. First
Co. v. Chicago; ardweldl v. American. Bridge Co.; .Yuse v
Glove;'), gua szra. In admitting some of the new States,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

however, the clause in question has been inserted in the law,
as it was in the case of Oregon, whether the State was carved
out of the Territory N~orth West of the Ohio, or not; and it
has been supposed that in this new form of enactment, it
might be regarded as a regulation of commerce, which Congress
has the right to impose. _PoZ&rrd'8 Lewee v. Hfagan , 3 How.
212, 230. Conceding this to be the correct view, the question
then arises, what is its fair construction? What regulation of
commerce does it effect? Does it prohibit physical obstructions
and impediments to the navigation of the streams? Or does
it prohibit only the imposition of duties for the use of the
navigation, and any discrimnnation denying to citizens of
other States the equal right to such use? Tins question has
been before this court, and has been decided in favor of the
latter construction.
It is obvious that if the clause in question does prohibit
physical obstructions and impediments in navigable waters,
the state legislature itself, in a State where the clause is in
force, would not have the power to cause or authorize such
obstructions to be made without the consent of Congress.
But it is well settled that the legislatures of such States .do
have the same p6wer to authorize the erection of bridges,
dams, etc., in and upon the navigable waters wholly within
their limits, as have the original States, in reference to whidh
no such clause exists. It was so held in Pouzd v. Turc, 95
'U. S. 459, in reference to a dani in the Chippewa River in
Wisconsin; in- Gardwell v. American Brdge CamoipanZ,, 113
U. S. 205, in reference to a bridge without a draw, erected on
the American River in California., which prevented steamboats
-from going above it, and in Hamilton v. l74ckweg Cf-,. .lailroad Co., 119 U. S. 280, relating to railroad bridges in Louisiana, in all which cases the clause in-question was in force in
the States where they arose, and in none of them was said
clause held to restrain: in any degree the full powef of the
State to make, or caute to be made, the erections referred to,
which must have been more or less obstructions and impediments to the navigation of the streams on which they were
placed. In Cardwell v. Amnemcan Brdge Co., the two alter-

WILLAMETTE IRON BRIDGE CO. v. HATCH.

11

Opinion of the Court.
nate constructions of the clause above suggested, were brought
to the attention of the court, and, on consideration, it was
held as follows: "Upon the mature and careful consideration
which we have given in this case to the language of the clause
m the act admitting California, we are of opinion that, if we
treat the clause as divisible into two provisions, they must be
construed together as having but one object, namely, to insure
a highway equally open to all without preference to any, and
unobstructed by duties or tolls, and thus prevent the use of
the navigable streams by private parties to, the exclusion of
the public, and the exaction of any toll for their navigation;
and that the clause contemplated no other restriction upon
the power of the State in authorizing the construction of
bridges over them whenever such construction would promote
In frfamiltom v. 1Ficksburg
the convemence of the public."
do. Railroad Co. it was said. "Until Congress intervenes in
such cases, and exercises its authority, the power of the State
is plenary. When the State provides for the form and character of the structure, its directions will coutr6l, except as
against the action of Congress, whether the bridge be with or
withou draws, and irrespective of its effect upon navigation;"
and in the some case the construction given to the clause in
question in Cardwed2 v. Amermean Bndge Company was reiterated, namely, that it was intended to prevent any discrimination against citizens of other States m the use of navigable
streams, and any tax or toll for their use. In !lse v. Glover,
119 U. S. 543, where a portion of the Illinois River had been
improved by the State of Illinois, by the erection of locks in
the river, and a toll was charged for passing through the
same, it was held that thus was no encroachment upon the
power of Congress to regulate commerce, and that whilst the
ordinance of .787 was no longer in force in -llinois, yet, if it
were, the construction given to the clause in the Cardwell
case was approved, and the following observation was made:
"As thus construed the clause would prevent any.exclusive
use of the navigable waters of the State - a possible farming
out of the privilege of navigating them to particular individuals, classes, or corporations, or by vessels of a particular char.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

acter." It was also held that the exaction of tolls for passage
through the locks as a compensation for the use of the artificial facilities constructed, was not an impostupon the 'navigation of the stream. The same views axe held in the recent
case of Sndud v. .3fanistee, Rvr

Impirovement Co., 123 U. S.

288.
It seems clear, therfore, that according to the construction
given by this court to the clause in the act of Congress relied'
upon by the court below, it does not refer to physical obstructions, -but to political regulations which would hamper the
freedom of commerce. It is to be remembered that in its
original form, the clause embraced carrying places between
the rivers, as well as the rivers themselves; and it cannot be
supposed that those carrying places were intended to be al-ways kept up as such. Nfo doubt that at the present time some
of them are covered by populous towns, or occupied in some
other way incompatible with their original use; and such a
diversion of their use, in the progress of society, cannot but
have been contemplated. What the people of the old States
wished to secure was, the free use of the streams and carrying
places in the 1Torth West Territory, as fully as it might be
enjoyed by the inhabitants of that territory th~niselves, without any impost or discriminating burden. The clause in
question cannot be regarded as establishing the police power
of the United States over the rivers of Oregon, or as giving
to the federal courts the right to hear and determine, accordmg to federal law, every complaint that may be made of an impediment in, or an encroachment upon, the navigation of those
rivers. We do noz doubt that Congress, if it saw fit, could
thus assume the care of said streams, in the interest of foreign
and interstate commerce, we. only say that, in our opinion, it
has not done ;3o by the clause in question. And although,
until Congress acts the States have the plenary power stipposed, yet, when Congress chooses to act, it is not concluded
by anything that the States, or that individuals by its authority or acquiescence, have done, from assuming entire control
of'the matter, and abating any erections that may have been
made, and preventing any others from being made, except in

WILLABYTT1 IRON BRIDGE CO. v. HATCH.

13

Ophfilon of 'the Court.

conformity with such regulations as it may impose. It is for
this reason, namely, the ultimate (though yet unexerted) power
of Congress over the whole subject matter, that the consent of
Congress is so frequently asked to the erection of bridges over
navigable streams. It might itself give original authority for
the erection of such bridges when called for by the demands
of interstate commerce by land, but, in many, perhaps the
majority of cases, its assent only is asked, and the primary
authority is sought at the hands of the State. With regard to
this very river, the Willamette, three acts 6f Congress have
been passed in relation to the construction of bridges thereon,
to wit: one, approved February 2d, 1870, which gave consent
to the corporation of the city of Portland to erect a bridge
from Portland to the east bank of the river, not obstructing,
impairing or injuriously modigying its navigation, and first
submitting the plans to the Secretary of War; another, approved on the 22d of June, 1874, which authorized the county
commissioners of Marion County, or said commissioners jointly
with those of Folk County, to build a bridge across said river
at Salem; a. third act, approved June 23d, 1874, which authorized the Oregon and California Railroad Company, alone, or
jointly with the Oregon Central Railroad Company, to build
a railroad bridge across said river at the city of Portland, with
a draw of not less than 100 feet in the clear on each side of
the draw abutment, and so constructed as not to impede the
navigation of the river, and allow the free passage of vessels
through the bridge. These acts are special in their character,
and do not involve the assumption by Congress of general
police power over the river.
Th6 argument of. the appellees, that Congress must. be
deemed to have assumed police power over the Willamette
River in consequence of having expended money in improving
its navigation, and of having made Portland a port of entry,
is not well founded. Such acts are not sufficient to establish
the police power of the United States over the navigable
streams to which they relate. Of course, any interference
with the operations, constructions or improvements made by
the general. government, or any violation of a port law

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

enacted by Congress, would be an offence against the laws
and authority of the United States, and an action" or suit
brought in consequence thereof would be one arising under
the laws of the United States. But no such violation or interference is shown by the allegations of the billm thd orggial
suit in this case, which snply states the fact that improvements have been made m the river by the government, without stating where, and that Portland had. been created a port
of entry. In the case of Ecnaba Co. v. Chicago, it was said:
"As to the appropriations made by Congress, no money has
been expended on the improvement of the Chicago River above
the ffrst bridge from the lake, known as Rush Street Bridge.
No bridge, therefore, interferes with the navigation of any
portion of the river which has been thus inproved. But, if it
were otherwise, it is not perceived how the improvement of
the navigability of the stream can affect the ordinary means
of crossing it by ferries and bridges." 107 U. S. 690. In the
present case there is no allegation, if such an allegation would
be material, that any Improvements in the navigation of the
Willamette River have been made by the government at any
point above the site of the proposed bridge.
As to the making of Portland a port of entry, the observa,
tions of Mfr. Justice Grier in The Passaw B .'dge Cruses, 3
Wall. 782, '793, App., are very apposite. Those cases were
decided in September, 1857, by dismissing the bills which
-were filed for injunctions against the erection of a railroad
bridge across the Passaic River at Iewark, New Jersey, and
a plank-road bridge across the same river below Newark. The
decrees were affirmed here by an equally divided court in
December Term, 1801. It being urged, amongst other things,
that Newark was a port of entry, and that the erection of
these bridges, though under the authority of the state legislature, was in conflict with the act of Congress establishing the
port, Mr. Justice Grier said. "Congress by conferring the
privilege of a port of entry upon a town or city does not come
in conflict with the police power of a State exercised in bridging her own rivers below such port. If the power to make a
town a port of entry includes the right to regulate the means

W LLAMETTE IRON -BRIDGE CO: v. HATCH.

15

Opinion of the Court.

by which its commerce is carried on, why does 'it not extend
to its turnpikes, railroads, and canals,-to land as well as
water? Assuming the right (which I neither affirm nor d6ny)
of Congress to regulate bridges over navigable rivers belew
ports of entry, yet not having done so, the courts cannot.
assume to themselves such a power. There is no act of Congress or rule of law which courts could apply to such a case."
p. 793. These views were -adhered to by the same judge in
tho subsequent case of Gilman v. Pkiiade~pha. The bridge
which was the subject of controversy in that case was within
the limits of the port of Philadelphia, which, by the act of
1-799, included the city of Philadelphia, and by that of 1834,
was extended northerly to Gunner's Run. See 3 Wall. 713, 718.
That case arose soon after The Pasaic Bridge Caea, and, so
far as interference with navigation was concerned, was identical in character wiih them; and M. Justice Grier, upon the
same grounds taken and asserted by him in those cases, dismissed the bill The decree was affirmed in tns court in December Term, 1865, by a vote of -seven justices to three, Justices Clifford, Wayne, and Davis dissenting. So that Justice
Grier's views were finally affirmed by a decided majority of
the court.
It is urged that in The WVeeling Bridge Case, 13 How 518,
this court decided the bridge there complained of to be a nuisance, and decreed its prostration, or such increased elevation
as to permit the tall chimneys of the Pittsburg steamers to
pass under it at high water. But in that case this court had
original jurisdiction in consequence of a State being a party;
and the complainant (the State of Pennsylvania) was entitled
to invoke, and the court had power to apply, any law applicable to the case, whether state law, federal law, or international
law. The bridge had been authorized by the legislature of
Virgima, whose jurisdiction extended across the whole river
Ohio. But Virginiia in consenting to the erection of Kentucky into a State, had entered into a compact with regard -to
-the free navigation of the Ohio,' confirmed by the act of Con2 See Mr. Stanton's argument, 3 How. 523; 1 Bioren's Laws, U. S. p.

675, art. seventh.

OCTQBER TERMI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

gress admitting Kentucky into the Union, which the court
held to be violatqd by authorizing the bridge to be constructed
in the manner it was, and the bridge, so constructed, injuriously affected a supra-riparian State (Pennsylvania) bordering
on the river, contrary to international law. 31r. Justice
Grier, in Te Passaw Bidge Cise, disposes of The Wheeling
Brdge Case as follows: "This Jegislation of Virginia being
pleaded as a bar to further action of the court in the- case,
necessarily raised these questions- Could Virgima license or
authorize a nuisance on a public river, flowing, which rose in
Pennsylvam; nd passed along the border of Virginia, and
which, by compact between the States, was declared to, be
'free and dommon to all the citizens of the .United States "9
If Virginia could authorize any obstruction. at all to the channel navigation, she could stop it altogether, and divert the
whole commerce of that great river from the State of Pennsylvania, and conpel it to seek its outlet by 'the railroads and
other public improvements of Virginia. If she had the sovereign right over this boundary river claimed by her, there woeld
be no.measure to her power. She would have the same right
to stop its navigation altogether as to stop it ten days in a
year. If the plea was admitted, Virginia could make Wheeling the head of navigation on the Ohio, and Kentucky might
do the same at Louisville, having the same right over the
-whole river which Virginia can claim. This plea, therefore,
presented not only a great question of international law, but
whether rights secured to the people of-the United States.by
compact made before the Constitution, were held at the mercy
or caprice of every or any of the States to which the river was
a boundary. The decision of the court denied this right:
The plea being insufficient as a defence, of course the complainant was entitled to a decree prostrating the bridge; which
had been erected pend'ente lite. But to mitigate the apparent
hardship of such a decree, if executed uhconditionally, the
court, in the exercise of a merciful discretion, granted a stay of
execution on condition that the bridge should be raised to a
certain height, or have a draw put in it which would permit
boats to pass at all stages of the navigation. From this mod-

WILLAAdETTE IRON BRIDGE CO. v. HATCH.

1

Ophnon of 'the Court.

ification of the decree no inference can be drawn that the
courts of the United States claim authority to regulate bridges
below ports of entry, and treat all state legislation in such
cases a3 unconstitutional and void. It is evident, from t-is
statement," continues Tustice Grier, "that the Supreme Court,
in denying the right of Virginia to exercise this absolute control over the Ohio River, and in deciding that, as a riparian
proprietor, she was not entitled, either by the compact or by
constitutional law, to obstruct the commerce of a stara-rparian State, had before them questions not involved in: these
cases," [the Passaic bridges,] "and which cannot affect their
decision. The Passaic River, though navigable for a few
miles within the State of *Tew Jersey,.and therefore a public
river, belongs wholly to that State. It is no highway to other
States; no. commerce passes thereon from States below the
bridge to States above." 3 Wall. T92.
This exposition of The Fheeling Bridge Case, by one who
had taken a decided part in its discussion and determination,
effectually disposes of it as a precedent for the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Courts of the United States in matters pertaining
to bridges erected over navigable rivers, at least those erected
over rivers whose course is wholly within a single State. The
Willamette River is one of that description.
On the whole, our opinion is, that the original suit in this
case was not a suit arising under any law of the United States;
and since, on such ground alone, the court below could have
had jurisdiction of it, it follows that the decree on the bill of
review must be

?eversed, and the 'record-remandedwith. 'instration8 to 're-i the originalsuit, and to dismiss the bilz
verse the deoreefzled therein, ibithout prejudice to any other -o'oceeding
'wkic may be tak6e in relation to the erection of said
75ridge, not inconsistent wit thzs oprnim:
VOL. oxxv-2

