WALKER

i.

WALKER.

Opinion of the Court.

MISSOURI, ex rel. WALKER v. WALKER.
ERROR TO THE SUP=M

COURT OF THE STATE OF

0IISSOURL

No. 910. Submitted February 16, 1888. -Decded April 2,1888.
A contract, made under authority of a statute, by a State with an individual
to prosecute at his own expense before Congress and the Departments
certain specified claims of the State against the United States, and to
receive as full compensation for his services a certain rate of commission on the amounts collected by him, does not confer upon the agent a
power, coupled with an interest in the subject of the contract, which
makes the contract of agency irrevocable.
isco =it,103 U. S. 5, and .effnes v. Mutual Life Ins. Co., 110 U. S.
Hall v.
305, distinguished.

Tmis was an application to a state court of Missouri for a

mandamus, winch was refused. The relator sued out this writ
of error. The case is stated in the opimon of the court.
Mr. WV

iam 2.

Wiim=

for plaintiff in error.

X-r. B. 6. Boone, Attorney General of the State of Missoun, for defendant in error.
The following opinion, prepared by MR. Cmwm

TusTo

W AmI, was delivered by the court-as its opinion.

On the 19th of March, 1881, a statute was enacted by the
General Assembly of Missouri, authorizing and empowering
the Fund Commissioners of the State, if they deemed it expedient, to employ a competent agent to prosecute to final
settlement before Congress and the proper departments at
Washington certain specified clauns of the State against the
government of the United States. The agent thus appointed
was to give segurity for the faithful performance of his duties.
He was to prosecute the claims at ins own bxpense, and receive, as full compensation for Ins services, such commissions
on the amount collected by him as might .be agreed upon.
between himself and the fund commissioners, not exceeding

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

five per cent on claims for money that had already been paid
out by the State, and fifteen per. cent on the others.

The

officers of the United States were authorized to pay the agent
his agreed commissions; but all other payments by the United
States must be made.to the treasurer of the State. Section 3
of this act is as follows: "See. 3. With a view to the prompt
and satisfactory settlement of the claims of this State against
the government of the United States, and referred to in this
act, the adjutant general, state auditor, and other officers of
the State having in their possession any papers, acc.ouits, parolls, orders, receipts, vouchers, or other evidences of indebtedness necessary to the establishment of said claims, shall, upon
the written order of the governor, deliver to such agent all
such papers, documents, pay-rolls, receipts, vouchers, or other
evidences of indebtedness, (or authenticated copies of the same,
where such copies will answer,) and take his receipt for the
same; ind in all cases wherein it is held by the government.
of the United States to be necessary to the establishment of
said claims, that such original papers, pay-rolls, vouchers, receipts, or orders, etc., should be filed in the departments at
Washington, it shall be the duty of the agent, and he is

hereby authorized, to deliver the same to the proper authorities'to be so filed, but before delivering the said original papers
he shall withdraw from file all authenticated copies-of the
same heretofor filed by this State, or the agents thereof; and
in all caseg wherein copies shall not have leen made of such
original papers, etc., as it may be necessary to file as aforesaid, it shall be the duty of said agent to prepare, or cause to
be prepared, and properly authenticate, copies of the same,
which copies so made, together with those heretofore made
and by him withdrawn from file, as hereinabove provided for,
shall be returned by such agent to the proper state officers of

this State, and the fact of the return of such copies shall be
by said officers respectively, certified to the governor of this
State."
On: the 28th of November, 1884, the fund commissioners,
acting under the authority of. this statute, employed John R.
Walker as the agent of the State in that behalf, and agreed

WALKER v. WALKER.
Opinion of the Court.

that he should receive for his services and expenses the inaximum of compensation provided for. Walker accepted the
employment, furnished the necessary security, and agreed, iin
consideration of the compensation specified, to proceed with.
out delay to the prosecution of the claims. It is averred in
tire petition, that thereafter "he entered upon the discharge of
the duties of his said employment, and has continued therein
ever since, and has incurred large expense and expended a
great deal of time, in and about the collection of said claims
under his contract, and has faithfully demeaned himself in t&
prosecution of the same, and- in the transaction of the business so intrusted to him;" but it dbes not appear, either in
the pleadings or the proof, that any specific claim has ever
been put in his hands for collectioh, or that anything has been
done by any officer of the State under § 3 of the statute to
furnish him the means of proceeding under his employment.
On the 28th of Mvfarch, 1885, the act of Yarch 19, 1881, was
repealed without any saving clause, and on the same day
another statute was passed, providing for the authentication
and payment of certain claims against the State for military
service, and whih were of the class in respect to which
Walker had been employed as agent. The- act then provided
for the delivery of these claims "to the agent for the collection of the claims of the State agamst the government of
the United States.' Then followed § 8, of winch this. is a
copy: 11Sec. 8. It shall be the duty of the said agent of the
State to prepare, present, and prosecute to settlement, the demands of the State for reimbursement by the government of
the United States, of such sums of mney as may be paid out
under the provisions of this act; and as fill compensatioii for
such services, said agent shall receive the amount of his expenses actually incurred in the prosecution of .said work; and
when such collection shall have been made, said agent shall
file a statement of his said expenses, verified by his oath, with
the state auditor, who shall thereupon draw his warrant upon
the state treasurer in favor of sdid agent for the amount of
said bill of expensei:Jrovaded, however, That the amount
paid on said bill of expense shall not exceed flive per cent of
the amount of the colledtion so made for the State."

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opimon of 'the Court.

Under this statute the clai of James P. Haynes, public
administrator of Ray County, having in charge the estate of
John King, deceased, was presented and allowed to the
amount of $466.59, and Walker demanded it from the Auditor
of State for collection from the United States under his employment as agent pursuant to the act of 1881, but this was
refused because that act had been repealed. Thereupon
Walker applied to the Supreme Court of the State for a mandamus on the auditor to make the delivery, his position being
that the repealing act of 1885 unpaired the obligation of his
contract -with the State under the act of 1881, and to that extent was .Void. The court denied the writ, and in so doing
decided that the employment of -Walker was "one of agency,
pure and simple," which the State could revoke at its will, as
it did by the repealing act. For a review of a judgment
based on that decision .this writ of error was brought.
The fund commissioners were only atthorized to employ
an agent for the State, and to agree with him as to the commissions he should receive on the amount collected, 'as full
compensation for his services, and all expenses incurred by
him in that behalf. This they did, and there can bp no doubt
that the agency thus created was withdrawn by the repealing
act of 1885, unless a consideration was given for it, or it was
so coiipled with an. inteiest in the subject-matter of the agency,
that is to say, "iithe claims to be collected, as to make it irrevocable.
There was no consideration in money paid for the employment. The agreement to prosecute the claims faithfully is no
more than would be implied in law from the acceptance of
the appointment; and the provision for the payment of expenses is only a declaration that the commissions stipulated
for shall be in full for services and disbursements. There is
nothng, therefore, in the consideration for the employment to
prevent this agency rom being revoked like any other.
The interest couled with a power, to make it irrevocable,
must be an interest in the thing itself. As was. said by
Chief 'Justice farshall, in Hunt v. Rausmanier, 8 Wheat.
174, 201, "the power must be engrafted on an estate in the

WALKER v. WALKER.
Opinion of the Court.

thing. The words themselves seem to import this meaning.
'A power coupled with an interest,' is a power which accompanies or is connected with an interest. The power and the
interest are united in the same person. But if we are to
understand by the word ' interest' an interest m that which is
to be produced by the exercise of the power, then they are
never united. The power, to produce the interest, must be
exercised, and by its exercise is extinguished. The power
ceases when the interest commences, and, therefore, cannot, in
accurate law-language, be said to be 'coupled' with it" Such
is undoubtedly the rule.
Here there was no actual assignment of the claims or any
part of them. Walker had no authority, under is employment, to take the money from the United States except to the
extent of his commissions. The vouchers and evidences of
debt were not turned over to him. All he could do was to
present the claims in the name of the State and as its representative. He could not even get the vouchers or other evidences of debt which were necessary for the establishment of
the claim, by application to the proper custodian, but must go
to the governor of the State for his written order directing
their deli very to him. There is -Rothing whatever in the transaction, from the beginning to the end, which shows an intention on the part of the legislature to part with any interest in
or control over the claims, except to the extent of the commissions of the agent after they had been earned. Walker
was given no power to compromise any claim. All he could
do was to establish the claam, and, when the State was ready
to pay it, take his commssions. Clearly such an agency is
not irrvocable in law because of its being coupled with an interest in the thing to be collected. If the vouchers and other
evidences of debt had actially been delivered to hu for collection, and he had expended time or money under his employment, in endeavoring to make the collection, a revocation
of bis authority might not require him to return the papers he
held until he was compensated for what he had already done;
but that is not the question here, because the purpose of this
suit is to get possession of new vouchers, not to assert a lien
upon such as he already had in hand.

3"°

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the, Court.

There is nothing iri the cases of Hda7 v. Wisconsin, 103 U. S.
5, or of 4Jp'ic& v. 7waZt Life Iswuance Comlany, 110 U. S.
305, in conflict with tins. .In HZP case the question was
whether tl employment was an office, or under a contract for
work and labor, and it was held to be under .a contract,
'because, although he was appointed a commissioner to make
a "geological, mneralogica, and agricultural survey of the
State," the law providing for the survey and for his appomtment required that the governor "make a written contract"
with hinm for the performance of his allotted work, and "the
compensation therefor;" and it also declared that "such contract shall expressly provide that the compensation to such
commissioner shall be at a certain rate per annum, to beagreed
upon, and not exceeding the rate of two thousand dollars per
annum, and that payment will be made only for such part of
the year" as he may. actually be engaged in the discharge of
Ins duty as such commissioner. The contract actually entered
into was by its terms "to continue till the third day of March,
1863, unless the said Hall should be removed for incompetency
or neglect of duty, . . . or unless'a vacancy shall occur in
his office by his own act or default." In deciding the case
it was said: "1In a sound view of the subject, it seems to us
that the legal position of the plaintiff in error was not materially different from that of parties who, pursuant to law, enter
into stipulations, limited in point of time, with a state, for the
erection, alteration, or repair of public buildings, or to supply
the officers or employes who occupy them with fuel, light,
stationery, and other things necessary for the public service."
There was in that case a positive contract by the State for
employment in a particular service, for a particular term,
made under the authority of law; and because it was such a
contract the State could not, any more than a private individual, rescind it at will The employment in.this case, however,
has no such provision. There is no agreement as to time, and
the matter stands precisely as that of Hall would, if a statute
had been passed authorizing a geological, mineralogical, and
agricultural survey of the State, and he had been employed to
make it and receive for his services a compensation depend-

SPENCER

i,.

MERCHANT.

Syllabus.

ent on the amount of work actually done, or the titne actually
employed. It would hardly have been contended that under
such a contract the State could not stop the survey and require
Hall to quit work at any time it pleased. The difference
between the two cases is the difference in the two contracts.
In Jefri's Case the contract was by an adminstrator of a
deceased person's estate with a firm of attorneys, to prosecute
a doubtful claim, "for a portion of the proceeds, with full
power to compromise it as they. should please," and we held
that such an agency was not revoked by the death of the administrator who ma de.the contract and the appointment of another
in his place. The question was as to the validity of a compromise made by the attorneys, on that authority, after the
death of the first administrator. In the present case there
was no authority to compromise: Walker could do nothing
to establish the claim. He could pot even receive the money
belonging to the State after he had got the allowance of the
claim by the United States.
We find no error in the record, and the judgment is

AfflneZ.

SPENCER v. 3EROHANT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Nro. 872. Submitted February ',18SS-Decided April 2, 18.
A 3udgment of the highest court of a State, sustaining the validity of an
assessment upon lands under a statute of the State, which was alleged
to be unconstitutional and void because it afforded to the owners no
opportunity.to be heard upaon the whole amount of the assessment,
involves a decision against a right claimed under the provision of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States prohibiting the taking of property without due process of law, and may be
reviewed by this court on writ of error, although the Constitution of
the State contains a similar provision, and no constitutional provision is
specifically mentioned in the record of the State court.
If the legislature of a State in the exerise, of its power of taxation,
directs the expense of laying out, grading or repairing a street to be
assessed upon the owners of lands benefited thereby; and determines

