OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

of the section levying the duty of twenty per centum ad val2'em, unless they were shown to have been used exclusively for
that purpose, is not insisted upon by the Solicitor General in
this court. It was very properly abandoned, the charge of the
court upon that point being, in our opinion, clearly right.
The judgment of the 0ircuit Court is accordingly
Afflmmd-

TILG

AN v. PROCTOR.

PROCTOR v. TILGHMANI.
.APPEAS FRSOM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THEl UNITED
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

STATES FOR

Nos. 537, 545. Argued November, 3,4, 5, 188G.-Declded March 19, 1888.

One having an interest in all fees and other sums to be recovered under a
patent, but not shown to have any interat, legal or equitable, in the
patent itself, need not be made a party to a bill in equity for its infringement.
Upon a bill in equity by the owner against infringers of a patent, the
plaintiff, although he has establishe, license fees, is not limited to the
amount of such fees, as damages; but may, instead of damages, recover
the amount of gains and profits that the defendants have made by the
use of his invention, over what they would have had in using other
means then open to the public and adequate to enable them to obtain an
equally beneficial result.
Upon a bill in equity for infinging a patent, if the de;endauts have gained
an advantage by using the plaintifrs invention, that advantage is the
meisure of the profits to be accounted for, even if from other causes
the business in which the invention was employed by the defendants did
not result in profits; and if the use..of a patented process produced a
definite saving in the cost of manufacture, they must account to the
patentee for the amount so saved.
The liability of infringers of a patent to account to the patentee for all the
profits gains and savings, which they have made by the use of his invention during the whole period of their infringement, is not affected by
the fact that in the midst of that period an erroneous decision was made
ii favor of a distict infringer, in no way connected with these defendants.
The conclusions of a master in chancery. depending upon the weighimg of

TILGE2IAN v. PROCTOR.

137

Opinion of the Court.
conflicting testimony, have every reasonable presumption in their favor,
and are not to be set aside unless there clearly appears to have been error
or mistake on his part.
In determining the amount of gains and profits derived by-infringers of a
patent from the use of the invention, over what they would have made
in using an old process open to the public, the expense of using the new
process is to be ascertaned by the manner in which they have conducted
their business, and not by the manner in which they might have conducted it; but the cost at which they used the old process is not conclusive against them, if other manufacturers used that process at less cost.
As a general-rule, in taking an account of profits against an infringer of a
patent, interest is not to be allowed before the date of the submission
of the master's report, but only after that date and upon' the amount
shown to be due by his report and the accompanyilg evidence.
The other questions decided were questions of fact.

L EQurry. These were cross appeals from the decree entered (on the report of a master) in the. execution of 'the
mandate of this court in the cause reported in 102 U. S. 707.
The case is stated in the opimon of the court..
Mrit. Francis T. Chambers and Mr. George Rarding for

Tilghman.
Mr. Robert. H. Parkznsom and i&. TWiiam .3. Ramsey
for Proctor and others.
Mm. Jusric, GBn&- delivered the opmiior of the court.

This was a bill in equity, filed June 26, 1874, by :Richard A.
Tilghman against William Proctor and four others, copartliers

under the name of Proctor & Gamble, praying for an in3unction, for an account of profits, and for damages, for the infringement of letters patent, originally granted to Tilghuan
for fourteen year from January 9, 1851, and afterwards e.-

tended to January 9, 1875, for the process of manufacturing
fat acids and glyc3rina from fatty bodies by the action of
water at a high temperature and pressure.
The infringement complained of in this suit was from :May

1, 1870, to January 8, 1875.

Similar suits by this plaintiff

against other defendants had been maintained by the Circuit

Courts for the Southern Districts of Ohio and of New York

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

-

in 1862 and 1864 respectively TiIkrnan, v. Wer, 2 Fisher
Pat. Cas. 229; Tilghman&
v. Aitchell, 2 Fisher Pat. Cas. 518.
In the suit ill New York, a final decree for an account of
profits was entered by the Circuit Court on September 1, 1871.
Yilghman v. -Mitchell, 9 Blatchford, 1, 18; B. C. 4 Fisher Pat.
Gas. 599, 615. On March 2, 184, that decree was reversed in
this court, by the opinion of four justices against three, two
judges not sitting, upon the hypothesis that Tilghman's patent
was limited to the apparatus therein described, and that the
use of an apparatus similar to that used by the presefit defendants was not an infringement. .Mitchell v. Tilghm n, 19
Wall. 287, 419, iii.
In the case at bar, the Circuit Court, on December 2, 1874,
following the decision of this court m JVftae v. Tilghman,
made a decree dismissing the bill. But, on appeal from that decree, this court, at October term, 1880, by a unanimous opinion,
overruled its decision in .kitckell v. !Tilghmann, and adjudged
that Tilghman's patent was a valid one for a process, and not
merely for the paiticular apparatus described in the specification; that that apparatus could be operated to produce a beneficial result, that the defendants had infringed the plaintiff's
patent; and, therefore, that the decree of the Circuit Court
be reversed, and the case remanded with directions to enter
a decree for the plaintiff in conformity with that opinion.
Tilghman v. 'roctor, 102"U. S. 707. There is nothmg in the
record before us to induce any chanrge or modification of the
conclusions then announced.
By making a few extracts from that opinion, the questions
now before us will be the better understood.
"The patent m question relates to the treatment of fats and
oils, and is for a process of separating their component parts
so as to render them better adapted to the uses of the arts. It
was discovered by Chevreul, an eminent French chemist, as
early as 1813, that ordinary fat, tallow and oil are regular
chemical compounds, consisting of a base which has been
termed glycerine, and of different acids, termed generally fat
acids, but specifically stearic, margarie and oleic acids. These
acids, in combination severally with glycerine, form stearine,

TILGHMAN v. PROCTOR.
Qplnion of the Court.

margarine and oleine. They are found in different proportions in the various neutral fats and oils; stearine predominating in some, margarine in others, and oleine in others. When
separated from. their base (glycerine) they take up an equivalent of water, and are called free fat acids. In this state they
are in a condition for being utilized in the arts. The stearic
and margaric acids form a whitish, semi-transparent, hard
substance, resembling spermaceti, which is manufactured into
candles. They are separated from the oleic acid, which is a
thin oily fluid,'by hydrostatic or other powerful pressure; the
oleme being used for manufacturing soap, and other purposes.
The base, glycerin- when purified, has come to be quite a
desirable article for many uses." 102 U. S. 708, 709.
The substance of Tilghniian's discovery and invention was
thus summed up by the court- "That the fat acids can be
separated from glycerine, without injury to the latter, by the
single and simple process of subjecting the neutral fat, whilst
m intimate mixture with water, to a high degree of heat under
sufficient pressure to prevent the water from being converted
into steam, without the employment of any alkali or sulphuric
acid, or other saponifying agent; the operation, even with the
most solid fats, being capable of completion in a very few
minutes when the heat applied.is equal to that of melting lead,
or 6120

ahrenheit; but requiring several hours when it is as

low as 350' or 400 ° Fahrenheit. The only conditions are, a
constant and intimate commixture of the fat with the water; a
high degree of heat, and a pressure sufficiently powerful to
resist the conversion of the water into steam. The result is, a
decomposition of the fatty body into its elements of glycerine
and fat acids, each element taking up the requisite equii alent
of water essential to its separate existence, and the glycerine
in solution separating itself from the fat acids by settling to
the bottom when the mixed products are allowed to stand and
cool. In this process a chemical change takes place in the fat
in consequence of the presence of the water and the active
influence of the heat and pressure upon the mixture." pp. 712,
713.
The court spoke of the different forms of apparatus, men-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opmion of the Court.

tioned in Tilghmans patent, or used by the defendaqts, as
follows:
"The apparatus described" in the patent "consists of a coil
of iron pipe, or other metallic tubing, erected in an oven or
furnace, where it can be subjected to a high degree of heat,
and through this pipe the mixture (of nearly equal parts of fat
and water), made into an emulsion in a separate vessel by
means of a rapidly vibrating piston or dasher, is impelled by a
force-pump in a nearly continuous current, with such regulated
velocity as to subject it to the heat of the furnace for a proper
length .of time to produce the desired result; which time, when
the furnace is heated to the tamperatu'e of 612 ° Fahrenheit, is
only about ten minutes. The fat and water are kept from
separating by -the vertical position of the tubes, as well as by
the constant movement of the current, and are prevented from
being converted into steam by weighting the exit valve by
which the product is discharged into the receiving vessel, so
that none of it can escape except as it is expelled by the pulsations produced by the working of the force-pump. Before
arriving at the exit valve, the pipe is passed, in a second coil,
through an exterior vessel filled with water, by which the temperature of the product is reduced. After the product is discharged into the receiving vessdl, it is allowed to stand and
cool until the glycerine settles to the bottom and separates
itself from the fat acids. The latter are then subjected to
washing and hydraulic pressure in the usual way2 pp. '78,
719.
"It is evident that the passing of the mixture of fat aid
water through a heated coil of pipe standing in a furnace is only
one of several ways in which the process may be applied. The
patentee suggests it as what he conceived to be the best way,
apparently because the result is produced with great rapidity
and completeness. But other forms of apparatus, known and
in public use at the time, can as well be employed without
changing the process. A common digester, or boiler, can evidently be so used, provided proper means are employed to keep
up the constant admixture of the water and fat, which is a sine
qua n in the operation." pp. 719, 720.

TILGRMAN v. PROCTOR.
Opliflon of the Court.

"The defendants use a boiler in which the charge of fat and
other materials is placed and heated; and do not niix the fat
and water in the manner pointed odt m the specification of the
patent, but, on the contrary, have inserted in the boiler a pump
which forces the water, as it settles to the bottom, upwards to
the top of the mass, and pours it upon the upper surface, whence
it again finds its way down through the fat, thus keeping up a
constant mixture." p. -730.
It was expressly decided that neither the form of the defendants' apparatus, nor the addition of lime, nor the use of
steam, nor the applying of a lower degree of heat, prevented
their process from being an infringement of the plaintiff's
patent. pp. 130-733.
The court also said: "It is objected that the particular apparatus described m the patent for carrying the process into
effect cannot be operated to produce any useful result; We
have examined the evidence on this point, and are satisfied
that it shows the objection to be unfounded. A recapitulation of this evidence is not necessary The testimony of
Tilghman himself, of Professor Booth, and of Mr. Wilson, is
directly to the point." p. -730.
In accordance with the judgment and mandate of this court,
the Circuit Court, in February, 187t, entered an interlocutory
decree for the plaintiff, and referred the case to a master "to
ascertain and tax and state and report to the court an account
of the gains, profits, savings and advantages which the said
defendants have received, or which have arisen or accrued to.
them, from infringing the said exclusive rights of the said
comViiamant by the use of the process patented in the said
letters patent, as w11 as the damages the said complainant
has sustained thereby." The master filed his report in August, 188.
As to damages, "the master finds from the evidence that
the complainant has derived no profit from the invention in-volved in this suit, otherwise than by granting licenses to
others to use the same. These licenses have been granted to
all manufacturers desiring to use his process, at a substantially
uniform fee of twenty.cents for each -hundred pounds of fat

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

treated, payable monthly For several years, the respondents
held such a license from the complainant, but terminated the
same, refusing to pay the stipulated license fees, after May 1,
1870, although continuing to use the process until the expiration of the patent on January 8, 1875." The master further
says- "The accompanying table A shows the quantity of fat
treated by the respondents during each month of infringement, the license fees therefor, and interest thereon to October
', the first day of October term, 18SI, making the whole
amount of the complainant's damages herein $79,566.91."
As to the profits, gains, savings and advantages which had
accrued to the defendants, the master finds that what was
kmown as "the lime saponification process," which consisted
in the manufacture of the fat into soap by the use. of lime,
and in the decomposition of that soap into fatty acids and
glycerine by the aid of stlphuric acid, was more advantageous
than any other process open to public use at the time in
question, and reports the defendants'-savings in lime -and sulphuric acid, their gain in glycerine, their loss in fat acids produced, and their net gains and savings, as follows:
2,798,733 lbs. of lime, at $0.3526 per hundred
6,S0,219 lbs. of sulphurc acid, at $2.527 per
hundred ....
.............
.
Amount saved in chemicals
Amount ganmed on glycerme water .....

.

$9,868 33
17,863 13
$182,731 46
61,701 7T

Total .
.......
.
$244,433 23
Deductingloss in fatty acids, being 5 cents per
hundred on 21,29-,753 lbs. of fat ..
.....
$114,991 -,6
Net

guins afid sav$ngs

.

129,441 47

In September, .-884, each party filed exceptions to the mas-ter'sreport. The Circuit Court, in February, 1886, overruled
all the exceptions, and entered a final decree for the plaintiff
for $79,566.91, the amount of damages reported by the master,

TILGHMAN v. PROCTOR.
Opinion of the Court.

with simple interest added upon-the license fees from October
7,1884, to February 4, 1886, making in all $83,275.21, and
costs. From this decree both parties appealed to this court.
At the hearing before the master, a brother of the plaintiff,
called as a witness in his behalf, testified on cross-examination
that before this suit was brought the witness had acquired an
interest in all license fees and recoveries under the patent.
Nqo further question was asked, or evidence offered, by either
party, as to the nature or amount of that interest. The defendants contended before the master, and at t1e' argument
here, that the plaintiff could recover in this suit no more than
his own share, and, having failed to prove the extent of his
interest, was entitled to nominal damages only. It is a, sufficient answer to this objection, that it is not shown that any
one but the plaintiff has any interest, legal or equitable, by
assigmment or otherwise, in the patent sued on; and that, as
observed by Mr. Justice Strong, sitting m the Circuit Court,
"an interest in the net proceeds of collections under. a patent
does not necessarily amount to legal ownership of the patent
itself. "Itis plain, therefore, as the case appears, that there
has been no want of joinder of the necessary parties." Jordan v. .Voson, 4 Fisher Pat. Cas. 232, 236.
The principal question of law now presented is as to the
.geneialtrule that should govern the amount to be recovered.
The defendants contend that the plaintiff, having established
license fees for the use of hL.s patent, is not entitled to any
gains and profits accruing to the defendants, in excess of
those fees. The plaintiff contends that, as the profits to be
accounted fdr exceed the dariages, he has the right, waiving
the damages found by the master, to have a decree for profits.
In an action at law for the infringement of a patent, the
plaintiff can recover a verdict for only the actual damages
which he has sustained; and the amount of such royalties or
license fees as he has been accustomed to receive from thud
persons for the use of the invention, with interest thereon from
the time when they should have been paid by the defendants,
is generally, though not always; taken as the, measure of his
damages, but the court may, whenever the circumstances of

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

the case appear to require i.t, inflict vindictive or punitive
damages, by rendering judgment for not more than thrice the
amount of the verdict. Acts of July 4, 1836, c. 357, § 14, 5
Stat. 123, July 8, 1870, c. 230, § 59, 16 Stat. 207; Rev Stat.
§ 4919; BSeymour0 v. U.iecormick, 16 How. 480, 489; lTew
-ork- v.
oansmn, 23 How 487, Sufolk- Co. v. Hayden, 3
Wall. 315, Phi~ v..rook, 1' Wall. 460; Packet Co. v. Sickes,
19 Wall. 611, 617; BiwdeZ v. -Denig,92 U. S. 716.
)But upon a, bill in equity by the owner against infringers
of a patent, the plaintiff is entitled to recover the amount of
gains and profits that the defendants have made by the use
of his invention.
This rule was established by a series of decisions under the
patent act of 1836, which simply conferred upon the courts
of the United States general equity jurisdiction, with the
power to grant injunctions, in cases arising under the patent
laws. Act of July 4, 1836j c. 357, § 17, 5 Stat. 12-, Lvzngstom v. Woodworth, 15 How 5-46; -Dea v. .Mason, 20 How.
198; Rubber Co. v. Goodyeau,, 9 Wall. 788; .'owry v. Thtvey, 141 WaIl 620; Littlefeld v. Perry, 21 Wall. 205, 129,
Mason v Graham, 23 Wal. 261; Tq'emolo Patent,23 Wall
518; Cawood Patent,94 U. S.695; Aevs v. Conover, October
Term, 1876, 11 Pat. Off. Gaz. 1111'L; Elizabetk v. Pavement
Co., 97 U. S.126; B oot r.-2ailway Co., 105 U. S.189.

1In less v. Conover, which came from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York, aud is reported at different
stages below r 3 Fisher Pat. Cas. 386, 6 Fisher Pat. Cas. 50G, and 11
Blatchfbtd, 197, the opinion of this court, not published in its official
reports, but printed in the edition of the Lawyers' Co5perative Publishing
Company, (Bk. 23, p. 1008,) appears of record to have been delivered on
Mardh 13, 1877, by Mr. Justice Strong, as follows:
,"The only errors assigned in this case are to the confirmation of the
master's report, and they relate to the ascertainment of the profits which
the defendant had made by his unauthorized use of the plaintiff's lnventioih.,That the machine employed by the defendant in splitting wood was an
infringement of the plaintiff's patent is established by the decree whic'i sent
the case to the master, and no complaint is made of that,.but it is contended
the master erred in reporting ' there was saved to the defendant seventyAve cents per cord in the wood splitby him and made iito bundles.'
"In the-ascertainment of profits.made by an Infringer of a patented

TGHMAN v. PROCTOR.
Opinion of the Court.

The reasons that have led to the adoption of this rule are,
that it comes nearer than any other to doing complete justice
between the parties; that in equity the profits made by the
infringer of a patent belong to the patentee and not to the
infringer; and that it is inconsistent with the ordinary principles and practice of courts of chancery, either, on the one
hand, to permit the wrongdoer to profit by his own wrong,
Invention, the rule is a plain one. The profits are not all he made in the
business m which he used the invention, but they are the worth of the
advantage he obtained by such use, or, in other words, they are the fruits
of that advantage. ilfoibryv. W tney, f4 Wall. 051. We are not convinced
that the rule declared in -that case was not followed In this. The patented
invention infringed by the defendant was a new and improved machine for
splitting kindling wood, and a distinguishing feature of It, perhaps the
principal feature, was a device for the automatic feeding of the wood to
the reciprocating splitting knives dr cutters, by a movable platform or
apron carried forward by an endless chain. That device the defendant
used, though it is said he used it In another machine, known as Green's.
The evidence is full and uncontradicted that an advantage is gained, in
splitting kindling wood by a machine with that device, of at least seventylive cents a cord over splitting it by hand or without that device. It was
In Varmony with this evidence the master reported and the court decreed.
"It is urged, however, that the Green machne, in which the defendant
used the plaintifi's invention, was old and defective, and that no profits
were actually received fromsuch an use. But If such be the fact, if the
defendant was a loser by splitting wood with. the Green machine, his loss
was less to the extent of seventy-five cents on each cord split, than it would
have been had lie not used the patented invention. Such a result was
equivalent to an equal gain, and It was rightly estimated as a part 'of the
profits for which the infringer was responsible.
"These observations are sufficient for the present case. We notice,
however, a suggestion made on behalf of the appellant, that since the
decree in the Circuit Court the patentee has surrenilered the patent upon
which the decree was founded, and obtained a reissue. This does not
appear in the record, and if it did it would be immaterial. We have held
that the surrender of a patent extinguishes it, and that, after its surrender,
pending suits founded upon it fall with its extinguishment. The patenr
must remain unsurrendered, not only when a suit upon it is commenced,
but at the time of trial and judgment. But a surrender after final judgmeat or decree can have no effect upon a right passed previously into
judgment. After that, there is nothing open for litigation. The right of
the patentee then rests on his judgment or decree, and not on his patent.
The suggestion, therefore, cannot avail the appellant, and the decree of
Decree affirmed."
the Circuit Court must be afflrmed.
VOL. CXzX.V-lO

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

or, on the other hand, to make no allowance for the cost and
expense of conducting his businessor to undertake to punish
him by obliging hn to pay more than a far compensation
to the person wronged.
The infringer is liable for actual, not for possible gains.
The profits, therefore, which he must account for, are not
those which he might reasonably have made, but 'those which
he did make, by the use of the plaintiffs invention; or, in
other words, the fruits of the advantage which he derived
from the use of that invention, over what he would -have had
in using other m&aus then open to the public and adequate to
enable him to obtain an equally beneficial result. If there
was no such advantage in his use of the plaintiff's invention,
there can be no decree for profits, and the plaintiff's only
remedy is by an action at law for damages.
But if the defendant gained an advantage by using the
plaints invention, that advantage is the measure of -the profits to be accounted for, even if from other causes the business
in which that invention was employed by the defendant did
not result in profits. If, for example, the unauthorized use
by the defendant of a patented process produced a definite
saving in the cost of manufacture, he must account to the
patentee for the amount so saved. This application or corollary of the general rule is as well established as the rule itself.
For instance, in the case of The Cawood -Patent, for an
improvement in a machine for repairing the crushed and
exfoliated ends of railroad iron, Mr. Justice Strong, in delivering judgment, said: "It has been argued that it -would have
been better for these defendants, if, instead of repairing the
crushed and exfoliated ends of the rails, they had cut off the
ends and re-laid the sound parts, or caused the ri9s to be rerolled. Experience, it is said, has proved that repairing wornout ends of rails is not true economy, and hence it is inferred
that the defendants have derived no profits from the use of
the plaintiff's invention. This argument is plausible, but it is
unsound. Assuming that experience has demonstrated whit
is claimed, the defendants undertook to repair their injured
rails. They had the choice of repairing them on the common

TILGHMAN v. PROCTOR.
Opinion of the Court.

anvil or on the complainant's machine. BY selecting the
latter, they saved a large part of what they must have expended m the use of 'the former. To that extent they had a
positive advantage, growing out of their invasion of the coih
plamant's patent. If their general business was unprofitable,
it was the less so m consequence of their use of the plaintiff's
property. They gamed, therefore, to the extent that they
saved themselves from loss.. In settling an account between
a patentee and an infringer of the patent, the question is, not
what profits the latter has made m his business, or from his
manner of conducting it, but what advantage has he derived
from.his use of the patented invention." 94-U. S. 710.
In .tevs v. Conover, where the patent was for an improved

machine for splitting kindling wood, the same justice, delivering the opinion of the court, said: "It is urged, however, that
the Green machinein which the d~fendant used the plaintiff's
invention, was old- and defective, and that no profits were
actually received from such an use. But if such be the fact,
if the defendant was a loser by splitting wood with the Green
machine, his loss was less to the extent of seventy-five cents
on each cord split, than it would have been had he not used
the patented invention. Such a result was equivalent to an
equal gain, and it was rightly estimated as apart of the profits
for which the infringer was responsible." 11 Pat. Off. Gaz.
1112; ante, 145, note..
In MizabetL v..Pavement CJo., Mtr. Justice Bradley stated, as
a general proposition that would hardly admit of dispute, " It
is also clear that a patentee is entitled 'to recover the profits
that have been actually realized from the use of his invention,
although, from other causes, the general business of the defendant, in which the invention is employed, may not have
resulted in profits, -as where it is shown that the use df his
invention produced a definite saving in the process of a manufacture." 97 UT. S. 138, 139. In BZoot v. BZailway Co., that
statement was repeated. 105 U. S. 202, 203. And m Thomson V. Tfooste, 114: U. S. 101, in which the patent was for an
improved folding guide for sewing-machines, :M]r. Justice. Bradley said. "It might have been a better financial operation to-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

have bought of others, or employed others to make the folded
stnps which they required, just as, in the case of The Caowood
Paten, the railroad company would have done better not to
have mended the ends of their battered rails, but to have had
them cut off; but as they chose to perform the operation they
became responsible to the patentee for the advantage derived
from using his machine." 114 U. S. 118.
The general rule has been sometimes said to be based upon
the theory that the infringer is converted into a trustee for the
owner of the patent, as regards the profits made by the use of
his invention. But, as has been recently declared by this
court, upon an elaborate review of the cases in this country
and in England, it is more strictly accurate to say, that a court
of equity, which has acquired, upon some equitable ground,
jurisdiction of a suit for the infringement of a patent, will not
send the plaintiff to a court of law to recover damages, but
will itself administer fall relief, by awarding, as an equivalenf
or a substitute for legal damages, a compensation computed
and measured by the same rule that courts of equity apply to
the case of a trustee who has wrongfully used the trust property for his own advantage. BZoot v. Railway Co., 105 U. S.
189, 214:, 215.
The rule in equity of requiring an infringer to account for
the gains and profits which he has made from the use of a
patented invention, instead of limiting the recovery to the
amount of royalties paid to the patehtee by third persons, has
been constantly upheld under the provision of the patent. act
of 18T0, embodied in the Revised Statutes, which, beside rPenacting the grant of general equity jurisdiction in patent cases,
further enacts that "upon a decree being rendered in any such
case for an infringement, the complainant shall be entitled to
recover, in addition to the profits to be accounted for by the
defendant, the damages the complainant has sustained thereby,
and the court shall assess the same or cause the same to be
assessed under its direction, and the court shall have the same
powers to increase the same in its discretion that are given by
this act to increase the damages found by verdicts in actions
upon the case;" and thus expressly affirms the -efendant's

TILGHMAN v. PROCTOR.
Opinion of the Court.

liability to account for profits, as well as authorizes the court
sitting in equity to award and to treble any damages that, the
plaintiff has sustained in excess of the defendant's profits.
Act of uly 8, 1870, c. 230, § 55, 16 Stat. 206; Rev. Stat.
§ 4921; Rsrdsa!Z v. C'ooMidge, 93 U. S. 64, 69, Xak v. Seymour, 97 U. S. 348; Boot v. ailwayCo., above cited; .ranrufacturing Co. v. Oowing, 105 U. S. 253; Garretonv. olarki
111 U. S. 120; Beaok v. Tho~'ne, 111 U. S. 122; -Bi"dreZ Y.
BSuzUol, 112 U. S. 485, 488; Thormon v. "Tooster, 114 U. S.
104.
It was argued for the defendants, that the limited -construction given to Tilghman's patent by the decision of this
court in M thce v. Tisghzan, 19 Wall. 287, became a, restriction upon the scope of the patent, and so remamed until re"Voked, and therefore that the defendants in this suit should
not be held liable for infringement for the time between the
date of that decision and the expiration of the patent, that is
to say, for the last ten months and six days -of the period
of more than four years and eight months during which the
infringement lasted.
But the injustice done to a patentee by an erroneous decision in a suit against one infringer will not justify a lepetition
of the injustice in another suit against distinct infringersin no
way connected with the first one. The decision against Tilghman in his suit against :Mtchell was binding as between those
parties only, and having been directly overruled by this court
on full consideration in 102 U. S. '!07, when the present case
was first brought before it, affords no ground for not holding
these defendants to account to Tilghman for all the profits,
gains and savings which they have made from the use of his
invention. during the whole period of their infringement.
We are then brought to a consideration of the exceptions
taken to the master's report in matters of fact, affecting the
accuracy of his conclusions in respect to the amount of. those
profits, gains and savings. In dealing with these exceptions,
the conclusions of the master, depending upon the weighiig
of conflicting testimony,'have every reasonable presumption in
their favor, and are not to be set aside or modified unless

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opmion of the Court.

there clearly appears to have been error or mistake on his
part. .Meskerv..BonsraTe, 108 U. S. 66; DonneZ v. Colunbian Ins. Co., 2 Sumner, 366, 31t1, -Mason v. Crosby, 3 Woodb.
& IMin. 258, 269; Pad&Zokv. Commercal Ine. Co., 10-4 Mass.
521, 531,; Richardsv. Tod, 127 Mass. 167, 11B.
The master, as already stated, reports the amount of chemicals that the defendants have saved by using the plaintiff's
invention, as $9868.83 in lime, and $173,863.13 in sulphuric
acid. If each of these two items is correct, he has made a
mistake of $1000 against the plamtiff in adding them togetlfer.
But the plaintiff contends- that a comparison of the report
-with the evidence shows that the actual saving in either item
was greater.
The facts, upon which the master bases his estimates of the
savings in chemicals, are state&iu. his report as follows:
After stating that, at the-time of the infringement by the
defendants of the plaintiff's patent, "the lime saponification
process was more advantageous than any other then in public
use," he says:
"By that process, the neutral fat was converted into lime
soap by boiling it in open tubs- with lime. The water was
then ran off containing the glycerine, and the lime soap was
treated with sulphuric acid, which combined with the lime,
forming sulphate of lime, and relesed .the fatty acids. Theoretically, 9j lbs. of lime and double that quantity of sulphuric
acid for each hundred pounds of fat treated were safficient to
effect these results, but, in pr-actical operation, manufacturers
used from 12 to 14 lbs. of lime per hundred, and from 2 to 3
lbs. of acid for each pound of lime, to insure perfect decomposition.
"The respondents, during the period of infringement, treated
the fat with water in closed digesters, adding one per cent of
lime, and heating with steam ut a pressure of 225 lbs. for
about nine and a half hours. Then they precipitated the lime
by using 3 lbs. of sulphuric acid for each pound of lime. As
compared with the average amount of each employed in the
old process, they saved 12 lbs. of lime and 294- lbs. of sulphuric acid for each hundred pounds of fat treated.

TILGHEAN v. PROCTOR.
Opimon of the Court.

cc Their books show that they ihus treated 23,322,77t lbs.
of fat during the period, in question, saving 2,798,733 lbs. of
lime and 6,880,219 lbs. of sulphuric acid, upon the basis above
mentioned. The testimony shows the average cost of lime to
have been $.3526 per hundred pounds, and the average cost of
the acid $2.527 per hundred."
It appears, by the testimony of the defendants themselves,
that, when they manufactured by the old process, they used
14 pounds of lime to each hundred pounds of fat treated, and
3 pounds of sulphuric acid to each pound of lime. It is contended by the plaintiff that that process, as used by the defendants, should be the standard of comparison in this suit;
and that, according to the preponderance of evidence, the
amount of lime, at least, so used by them, was a necessity in
that process- But the plaintiff has the burden of .proving the
amount of profits that the defendants have made by the use
of his invention. BlZ4e v. Robertson, 91 U. S. 728; jDiizdaet
Caqv. Pavement 6(o., 97 U. S. 126, 139; -Dobsonv. Ra.-orf
pet Co., 114 U. S. 439, 444, 445. And the question to be determined is, as stated by Afr. Justice Strong in delivering
judgment in .fowry v. Wkiiney, "what advantage did the
difendant derive from using the complainant's invention, over
what he had in using other processes then open to the public
and adequate to enable him to obtain an equally beneficial
result?" 14 Wall. 620, 651. In determining that question,
the expenso of using the new process is doubtless to be ascertained by the manner in winch the defendants have in fact
conducted their business, and nof by the manner in which they
might have conducted it. But as to the comparative expense
of the old process, the cost at which they used that process, if
they did once use it, although strong -evidence against them,
because they maybe presumed to have used it as economically
as they could, is not conclusive evidence that the old process
could not have been used at a less cost. To hold otherwise
would be to hold infringers of a patent for a new process,
who had ever used the old process, to a different measure of
accounting from those who had never used the old process at
all. In the former opinion, the court assumed, as the result

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Opimon of the Court.

of the evidence, that the saponifying process required twelve
or fourteen per cent- of lime. 102 U. S. 131. There being
evidence that such was the amount of lime used by some
manufacturers under the old process, as well as that the average use of sulphuric acid under that process was 24 pounds
to each pound of lime, we cannot say that the conclusion.of
the master ought to be set aside or modified as to either of
these items.
The master finds that no material economy in operation has
been secured by the change of process, and the testimony introduced by the plaintiff is not clear and decisive enough to
overthrow his conclusion in this respect.
That part. of the master's report, which relates to the amount
saved in glycerine water, is as follows.
"It appears from the evidence that the average density of
glycerine water obtained in the old lime-saponification process
was only JP Baum6, while that obtained from the digesters
was from 30 to 3JP. It also appears that the concentration of
the ltter to 15 ° cost $1.55 per barrel at the respondents' factory
"Assuming the cost of concentration to be m like proportion for each degree, it is claimed that concentration from r°
to 3r ° would cost nearly $.94: per barrel, and the cost of such
concentrationis an item of gain and saving realized by the
respondents, by reason of the greater density of the glycerine
water obtained from the digesters, for which they should be
charged in this accounting. But there is no testimony establishing that the cost of concentratio: is in proportion to its
degree,. nor is it reasonable to aqsume such to -be the fact;
indeed,,it is apparent that the cost of concentrating a single
degree would be much greater in proportion than a more extensive operation, while an additional degree of concentration
in an extensive operation would affect the cost but little.
"It appears in evidence that glycerine water was sold in the
market at so much per barrel for each degree of density, and
that the respondents sold it at the market price as it came
fronm the digesters. It, however, required considerable concentration to prepare it for use, and they boiled it down to 150 for

T
TILGHMA

v. PROCTOR.

Opinion of the Court.

the purchasers, charging the cost thqreof to them. Provided
as they were with facilities for sucli work, the additional cost
of concentration from a still lower degree could not be great.
The only witness whose testimony is directly in point says it
would not be material. Besides, if paid by the purchaser, it
would not affect the profits of the respondents.
"But the evidence does show a larger yield of glycerine by
the new process. While the old lime-saponification process
was in use, glycerine had no market value.; consequently no
effort was made to secure it., and there is no direct testimony
as to the best results that could be secured by careful trnat,
ment, but the testimony shows that the average density of the
glycerine which ran to waste was

0,

and that it was about

equal m volume to the fat.
i1 s claimed that the same volume of glycerine water was
drawn from the digesters, while its density was much greater.
But the master finds from the evidence that the respondents
used two charges of water, each half the bulk of the fat, the
first charge drawn from the digesters being the glycerine
water sold by them. There was consequently double the volume of glycerine wdter in the former process, which accounts,
in part, for difference in density; but the comparison still
shows considerable loss due to various causes, which is further
increased by the additional concentration required, the average
result of tests made in various degrees of. concentration indicating that it requires about 44 barrels of Y0 to make one of 3* .

"The accompanying table B shows the quantity and value
of glycerine water obtained by the respondents from the
digesters, and also the number of barrels, concentrated- to 3*,
that could be obtamed from the fat treated by lime saponification, and the value thereof at market prices, the difference
being the amount gained by reason of the greater yield of
glycerine from the digesters, viz., $61,101.172'.
As, according to the master's report and the whole evidence,
the glycerine obtained by either process must, in order to be
sold, be concentrated to 150, and it is not shown how muel, if
anythung, more it would cost to concentrate from to 150 than
from 33P to 150, and the purchaser in either case pays the cost

154;"

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opimon of the Court.

of concentration to 150, the plaintiff fails to. show that anythmg'should have been allowed for the cost of concentration.
But the finding of the master, that in the new process "the
respondents used two charges of-water, each half the bulk of
the fat, the first charge drawn from tle digesters being the
glycerine water sold by them," and "there .was consequently
double the volume of glycerine water m the former process ;"
as well as the corresponding statement m his table B, that the
amount of glycerine water o.btained -by the new process was
65,312 barrels, while the amount that would have been
obtained under the old-process would have been 130,624 (misprinted in the record 131,624) .barrels.; is quite inconsistent
with the sworn answer to the bill, and with the testimony of
the defendants.
The answer states that in the tank were placed fat and water
in equal quantities, and that -during the operation the first
charge of water was drawn off and - second charge of water
introduced.
The defendant Tames N. Gamble testified that the barrels
of glycerine obtained under the new process were 40-gallon
barrels, contammg, as he estimated, 330 pounds, and to the
question, "Can you state what amount of water was used in
each charge in the process as carried on from 1870 to 1875 ?."
answered: "I cannot state positively from recollection of what
was absolutely used. , M y -recollection was, however, that it
was in each charge about fifty per cent of the fat, and this
recollection is confirmed by the amount of glycerine water
obtained."
The amount of glycerine water obtained, as stated by the
master from the defendants' books, was 65,312 barrels, which,
at 330 pounds each, is 21,552,960 pouilds. This is not half,
but 92.4 per cent of 23,322,777, the number of pounds of fat
treated by the defendants, as ascert.ained by the master from
their books; and perhaps a somewhat, but not much, less proportion m'bulk
As to the old process, the defendant William A. Proctor,
who was a member of the firm while they were using it, testified as follows:

TILGHMAN v. PROCTOR.
Opinion of the Court.

cc64. The saponifying tubs were large enough to contain
about double the quantity of fat you put in them, I understand 9 .Am8. They were.
" 65. About how much water was put into these tubs, along
with the fat? A=. A little less than the volume of the fat,
so that the vats were almost full. It was calculated that the
condensed steam would supply water enough to keep them
full.
"166. "When the coolung of the mass in the.saponifying tubs
was completed, the tubs were about full of lime soap axid
water, I understand? Am8. They were not full, there being
space enough to, allow for the boiling of the water without
excessive- flashing out; that- was all. The water in the vat,
when the operation was through, was about equal to the bulk
of the fat that had been put in."
Upon this -testimony, as the -whole of the glycerine could
hardly have been separated from the mass of lime soap by
merely drawing off, it may safely be concluded that the
amount of glycerine water, obtained under the old process,
which the witness speaks of as "about equal to the bulk of
-the fat that had been put in," was not more than 90 per cent
of the fat treated, and that there was no substantial difference
in this particular between the results of the two processes.
It is therefore clear that the old process would produce only
.one-half the amount of glycerine reported by the master and
stated in table B, and that the sum, of $61,701.7 7 at which
the master has arrived by deducting from $103,143.03, the
value of 65,312 barrels of .glycerine water obtained under
the new process, 84:1,441.26, the value of 130,624 barrels, as
obtainable under the old process, must be increased by adding
half of the amount deducted, or $20,720.63.
The findings of the master, upon which he bases his conclusion of the amount of loss of fatty acids in using the plaintiff's
invention as compared with the old process, are shown by the
following extracts from his report:
"It does not appear that saponification by water alone in
such digesters" as the defendants used "had been regularly
employed by any one; but the testimony shows that" those

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

who tried to do so, under licenses from the plaintiff, "all
became satisfied that a satisfactory result could not be secured
by that process alone, and found it necessary to employ some
additional agency to secure complete saponification at safe
pressures within r~asonable time."
"During the period of this accounting, the respondents used
one per cent of lime and a second charge of water, completing
the process in about -nine and a half hours, at a pressure of
about 225 pounds. With these two modifications, both of
which are shown ,by the evidence to be efficient, a good
quality of fatty acids was obtained, though not fully equal to
that obtained by lime saponification."
"The fatty acid product obtained by the respondeng., operating in their digesters for nine and a half hours, at an average
pressure of 225 pounds, by the action of water alone, was
inferior in value to-the product of lime saponification."
'The experiments made pending the hearing before the
master, at 225 pounds pressure, without lime or change of
water, yielded pitoducts containing an average of 92.5 per cent
of fatty acids."
"As compared with the result of lime saponification, the
experiments at 225 pounds pressure show a loss of 6 pounds
of free fatty acids for each hundred pounds of fat treated,
and an admixture of- undecomposed fat seriously affecting the
value of the product." "The fatty acids were worth at least
9 cents per pound, making the direct loss of fatty acids not
less than 54 cents upon each hundred pounds of fat treated."
"There is no testimony from which the master can determine to what extent the value of fatty acids actually obtained
was affected by the admixture of undecomposed fat, and no
allowance has been made therefor."
"Durmg the period of infringement, the respondents treated
23,322,77't pounds of fat in their digesters with one per cent
of lime. The evidence shows that 11j-pounds of lime completely saponify 100 pounds of fat, in close digesters, under
pressure;" and Im the process employed by the respondents
2,028,024 pounds of the fat treated by them were converted
into lime soap by the action of lime; and 21,291,'t53 pounds

TILGHMAN v. PROCTOR.
Opinion of the- Court.

were converted into a fatty acid mixture, containing 92.5 per
cent of free fatty acids, by the action of water, the further
decomposition of such mixture being effected by modifications
of the complainant's process.'
Upon comparing the master's report with the evidence, we
are unable to accept his conclusion upon this part of the case.
Mtch of the testimony on which he chiefly relies was in the
record upon which the case had been previously heard before
this court, having been introduced to support the objection
that the particular apparatus described in the plaintiff's patent
for carrying the process into effect could not be operated toproduce any useful result, of which the court then said: "We
have examined the evidence on this point, and are satisfied
that it shows the objection to be unfounded." 102 U. S. '130.
Under these circumstances, the master appears to us to have
given too much weight to this, as contrasted with the other
testimony in the original record, although it is quite true, as
argued by the defendants, that the question of the practical
economy of the patented process, as compared either with
older processes, or with the subsequent modifications used by
the defendants, is distinct from the questions of utility and
infringement heretofore determined.
The testimony of experts since taken, and the tables of experiments made by them pending the hearing beforethe master, are quite unsatisfactory, for reasons fully set forti inthe
brief for the plaintiff, which it would take too much space to
recapitulate.
Apart from these considerations, and even assuming that the
master is right in reporting that the modifications of using one
per cent of lime and two charges of water, made by the defendants in the plaintiff's process, are shown to have been efficient,
and that the defendants, in accounting with the plaintiff for
the profits made by them from the use of is invention, are
entitled to be allowed for the effect of such modifications, the
evidence wholly fails to support the master's conclusion that
in the use of the plaintiff's process, without addition of lime or
change of water, as compared with the lime saponification
process, there is a loss of 6 pounds of free fatty acids for each

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion -of the Court.

hundred pounds of fat treated; or to show that .there has
been any loss of free fatty acids which affects the value of the
product.
The master's conclusion is based upon the finding that the
product of the patented process, without modification, contains
only 921 per cent of free fatty acids, and upon the hypothesis
that the product of the old process contained 98 per cent.
Bat there is no proof whatever that there was any such difference in the result of the two processes, or that the product
of the old process contained 98.1 per cent of fatty acid. No
chemical analysis of the product of the old process appears to
have been made. The defendants' own experts testify that
the highest possible amount- of fat acid in pure tallow is only
95 and a fraction per cent. And two of the defendants, as
well as Ropes, one of the witnesses on whom the master relies,
and Verdin, a partner of Alitchell, testify that in using the
old process the' whole average product was 95 per cent of the
amount of fat treated.
The testimony of one of the defendants, James Gamble, who
had been forty years in the business, and was examined as a
witness in their behalf, clearly exhibits his general impression
as a practical manufacturer, not only that the product of the
old process was not more than 95 per cent -of fatty acid, but
also that there was no comparative loss of fatty acid by Tigh-man's process. On cross-examination he testified as follows'
"1. Was there more or less fatty acid obtained by the old
process used by you prior to 1858 than by the process used by
you since 1870? Ans. I think there would be no difference if
the fatty acid from the tank in the new process is well settled,
but it won't settle as well as in the old. In actual practice,
there is more weight in the product of the new process, as it
contains more sediment than from the old; but I think the
amount of fatty acids in each is the same."
Upon the direct examination being resumed, he further testified :
"16. Do you know how many pounds of fatty acids were
practically produced from 100 pounds of fat treated by the old
saponification process used by you prior to 1858? Anm. We

TILGUXAN v. PROCTOR.
Opinion of the Court.

always made a. calculation of 95 pounds, but I cannot say more
than that.
"17. Do you know how many pounds of fatty acids were
practically produced from 100 pounds of fat treated by the
process used by you from 1870 to 1875? .A . We calculated
the same.
"118. Was this calculation or estimate founded upon any
tests made by your firm or under their direction? A . lNo,
sir. I do not think a test practicable; it isno more than
guesswork.
"19. So far as you have any actual knowledge, there may
have been a difference in the weight of fatty acids produced
from 100 pounds of fat treated by the old saponification process, and the process as used by you from 1870 to .1875, may
there not? Amt . I think when we have examined and find
the lime all clear of the acids, the product in each case must
be the same, except as to the sediment remaining in the. tankstock"

-

The great preponderance of the evidence isto the effect that
the product of the plaintiff's process, using water alone and all
at one time, would contain as much as 95 per cent of free fatty
acids. Even the defendants' principal expert, in an experiment
testified to by him, and stated in his table, obtained that proportion by the use of equal quantities of water and of fat,
without lime or change of water, under a treatment for.nine
hours at 225 pounds of pressure.
Mfforeover, the real question is not of the exact quantity of
fatty acid, as proved by chemical tests, contained in the two
products, but whether the one is as good as the other for use
in the manufacture of candles. The defendants' testimony
shows.tbat manufacturers always test the fitness of the product for that use by pressure with the thumb, and never by
chemical analysis; and upon all the evidence there can be no
doubt that a difference between 95 and 92-, per cent in the
proportion of fatty acids does not affect the commercial or
practical value of the product.
From these considerations, it follows that notlng is to be
deducted for a loss in fatty acids, and that to the amount of

OCTOBER TERM. 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

$182,731.46, saved in chemicals, and $61,701.7t, gained in
glycerine water, as reported by the master, there is to be added
$1000 for his mistake in adding up the items of chemicals, and
$20,7120.63 for his error in computing the amount of glycerine
water, making a total amount of $266,153.$G
This result is arrived at by taking the anfount of savings in
chemicals, as found by the master, which the defendants produced no evidence to control, and which is less than such savings if computed by the standard of their own use under the
two processes; then adding the amount gained in glycerine
water, as appearing by the facts stated in the master's report
or testified to by the defendants themselves, correcting only a
clear error in the master's computation; and rejecting the
deduction made by the master on acount of a supposed loss of
fatty acids in using the plaintiff's invention as compared with
the old process, because the evidence returned with the master's report is quite inconsistent with the theory that there
was any loss in this respect.
The only exception of any importance, not disposed of or
rendered immaterial by what has been already said, is the
exception of the plaintiff to the refusal of the master to allow
interest on profits before the date of his report.
If the question thus presented were a new one, it would
require grave consideration. But by a uniform current of
decisions of this court, beginning thirty years ago, the profits
allowed in equity, for the mjury that a patentee has sustained
by the infringement of his patent, have been considered as a
measure of unliquidated damages, which, as a general rule, and
in the abSsence of special circumstances, do not bear interest
until after their amount has been judicially ascertained, and
the provision introduced in the patent act of 1870, regulating
the subject of profits and damages, made no mention of interest, and has not been understood to affect the rule as previously announced. Silsy v Foote,20 How 378, 387; fowry
-. Tlhitney, 14 Wall. 620, 651; 7ittlfteZd v. ery, 21 Wall.
205. 229; Act of July 8, 1870, c. 230, §55, 16 Stat. 206, Rev.
Stat, §4921, Parks v. Bootk, 102-U. S. 96, 106; Railway CJo.
v. Rioot, 105 U. S. 189, 19S, 200, 20,1; 1llinow Central Rail-

CCAGO v. TAYLOR.
Statement of the Case.

road v. XTwreZ, 110 U. S. 301, 303. NTothing is shown to take
this case out of the general rule. At the time of the infringement, the fundamental questions of the validity and extent of
Tilghman's patent were in earnest controversy and of uncertam issue. Interest should therefore be allowed, as in Illinois
Central .Railroadv. Turrell, just cited, only fr6m the day
when the master's report was submitted to the court, (which.
appears, by the terms of his report and of. the decree below, to
have been October ,1884,) upon the amount shown to be due
by that report and the accompanying evidence.
-Decree reversqd, and case -remanded to the Circuit Choitkdirections to enter a deoree fo the laintiffor tke
sun of $266,153.86, with interest f om October T, 1884,
and costs.
M . CB=EF

JusTin WAiTE dissented.

:MR. JusTion XA'rHws did not sit in this case or take any
part in the decision.

OHICAGO v. TAYLOR.
ROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NOTHERIN DISTRICT OF ILVENOIS.
Wo. 151. Submitted January 31, 188S.-Declded March 19, iSS.

Under the provision in the constitution of the State of flihols adopted Itu
1870 that "private property shall not be taken or dcnaged for public use
without just compensation," a recovery may be had in all cases where
.private property has sustained a substantial Injury from the making and
use of an improvement that is public in its character; whether the damage be direct, as when caused .by trespass or physical invasion of the
property, or consequential as in a diminution of its market value.

TREsPAss oN TH CASE. Judgment for plaintiffs. Defendant
sued out this writ of error. The case is stated in the opinion
of the court.
VOL. c XV-fl

