CUNNINGHAM v. NORTON.
Statement of the Case.

words "'manufactures of which steel is a component part," and
"manufactures of which glass is a component part," have been
held a sufficient designation to render the goods enumerated
articles under the statute, and take them out of the similitude
clause. .Arthur v. S'usfteld, 96 U. S. 128. Upon the same
principle "manufactures of hair" must be held a sufficient
designation to place such manufactures among the enumerated articles.
Tudgment a~ffl7ed.

CUNhNINGHAM

oi. NORTONT.

ERROR TO THE OIROUIT COURT OF THE 'UNITED STA.TE FOR
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 74. Argued November 17, 187.-Declded March 19, 1888.
Whether, In a deed of assignment by a debtor for the benefit of creditors
made under a state statute, a disregard of and departure from somQ
direction3 of the statute shall invalidate the assignment or only make
the varying provision in it void, will depend upon the general policy of
the statute-whether it is intended to restrain or to favor such assignments.
A provision in an assignment by a debtor for the benefit of his creditors
under the statute of the State of Texas of March 24, 1879, Rev. Stat.
Texas, 1879, App. 5, that any surplus shall be paid to the debtor, made
in violation of the direction in ยง 16 of the statute that such-surplus shall
be paid into court, does not affect the validity of the assignment, but
only invalidates the violating provision.
The words -all his lands, tenements, hereditaments, goods, chattels,
property, and choses in action qf every name, nature and description,
wheresoever -the same may be, except such property as may be by the
constitution and laws of the State exempt from forced sale," are a
sufficient description to convey all the debtor' estate, under the Texas
statute of March 21, 1879, regnlating assignments by insolvent debtors.
A statement in a deed of assignment by a debtor for the benefit of- his
creditors, that he" is indebted to divers persons in considerable sums-of
money which he-is at present unable to pay in fall".is a declaration of
the insolvency of the grantor.

THIS was an action in the nature of trespass brought by
an assignee of an insolvent debtor against a marshal of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

United States for levying upon goods of the debtor covered
by the deed of assignment. The defendant contested the
validity of the assignment. Judgment for defendant. 15
Fed. :Rep. 853. Plaintiff sued out this writ of error. The
ease is stated in the opimon of the court.
_Mr[i.

Y. Halett P
.

is for plaintiff in error.

.Mr.D. A. XI]Teight for defendants in error. .3&. B. John
-Ellisand .M,. Jon,Jons were with hun on the brief.
.

M. i.

Crawford also Med a brief for defendants in

error.
IMfr.

JUSTicE

BRADLEYdelivered the opinion of the court.

This action is in the nature of an action of trespass, brought
by an assignee for, the benefit of creditors against the marshal
of the United States for the iorthern District of Texas, for
seizing, levying on and converting certain goods of one Wal-

lace, which had been assigned to the plaintiff. The seizure
by the marshal was made under an attachment issued out of
the Circuit Court, at the suit of Naumberg,-kraus, Lauer &
Co., who are also defendants in the present action. The
plaintiff, in his petition, sets out his ownership, as derived
under a deed of assignment, a copy of which is'attached, and
is in the words and figures following, to wit.
"The State of Texas, Kaufinan County:
"This indenture, made the 24th day of October, A.D. 1881,
between S. W. Wallace, of the first part, I. G. Lawrence, of
the second part, and the several creditors of the party of the
first part who shall hereafter accede to -these presents, of the
third part, witnesseth That whereas the party of the first
part is indebted to divers persons in considerable sums of
money, which he is at present unable to pay m full, and he
is desirous to convey all his property for the benefit of his
creditors:
"1Now,the party of the first part, in consideration of the

CUNNINGHAM v. NORTON.
Opinion of the Court.

premises and of one dollar paid to him by the party of the
second part, hereby grants, bargains, sells, assigns and conveys
unto the party of the second part and his heirs andissigns all
his lands, tenements, .hereditaments, goods, chattels, properwf
and choses in action of every name, nature and description,
wheresoever the same may be, except such property as may
be by the constitution and laws of the State exempt from.
forced sale; to have and to hold the said premises unto the
said party of the second part, his heirs and assigns, but in
trust and confidenceto sell and dispose of said real and personal estate, and to collect said choses in action, using a
reasonable discretion as to the times and modes of selling and
disposing of said estate as it respects makng sales for cash or
on credit, at.public auction or by private contract, taking a
part for the whole where the trustee shall deem it expedient
so to do, then in trust to dispose of the proceeds of said property in the manner following, viz.:
.. First. To pay the costs and charges of these presents and
the expenses of executing the trusts herein declared, together
with all taxes which are a charge upon any of said property.
"Second. To distribute and pay the remainder of the said
proceeds to and among all the parties of the third part who
will accept thereof in full satisfaction of their claims against
said party of the firtt part ratably in proportion to their
respective debts.
"Third. To pay over any surplus, after paying all the
parties of the third part who shall accede hereto as aforesaid,
in full, to the party of the first part, his executors, administrators or assigns; and the .party of the first part hereby
constitutes and appoms the party of the second- part his
attorney irrevocable, with power of substitution, authorizing
him, in the name of the party of the first part or otherwise,
as the case may require, to do any and all acts, matters and
things to carry into effect the true intent and meaning of
these presents which the party of the first part might do if
personally present; and the party of the second part, hereby
accepting these trusts, covenants to and with each of the other
parties hereto to execute the same faithfully; and the party

OCTOBERl TERMI, 1887.
Opiniou of the Court.

of Te first part hereby covenants with the said trustee, from
time to time and at all times when -requested, to give him all
the information in his power respecting the assigned property,
and to execute and deliver all such instruments of further
assurance as the party of the second part shall be advised by
counsel to be necessary in order to carry into full effect the
true intent and meaning of these presents, and the parties
6f the third part, by acceding hereto and by accepting the
benefits herein conferred, hereb.Y and thereby agree to and
with the said party of the first part to release him from any
and all claim or claims, debt or debts, demand or demands,

of whatever nature, which they respeqtively have and hold
against him; and this assignment is made for the benefit of
such of the parties of the third part:only as will consent to
accept their proportional share of said estate of the said party
of the first part, and discharge him from their respective
claims.
"Witness our hands this 24th day of October, Aa. 1881.
"(Signed)
"S. W W.LLACE.
"I. G. LAWnpENCE."
The defendants filed an exception to the petition, in the
nature of a demurrer, assigning therefor the following reasons, to wit
"1st. Because the paper appended thereto and called an
assignment or deed of assignment is not such in fact and does
not on its face purport to convey to the creditors of S. W.
Wallace, the grantor, all of his estate not exempt from forced
sale for the benefit of- his creditors.
"2d. Said deed is, only purports to be, for the benefit of such
creditors as will accept it and release the said Wallace from
his debts due to them, reserving to said Wallace all of the
estate not used in the payment of.said accepting creditors, and
directihg the plaintiff Lawrence to pay to hu all that part of
the estate not appropriated by the accepting creditors.
"3d: Said deed shows on its face that it was and is not an
assignment under the statute, and that the trust was to be
administered out of the court.

0UNNINGRAh

v. NORTON.

Opinion of the Court.

"14th. It is not shown or assigned that any creditors have
accepted such assignment.
"5th. The petition shows that the creditors at whose suit
the attachment was levied, to wit, lNYaumberg, Kraus, Lauer
& Co., were and are non-residents of the State of Texas, and
that they reside in New York.
"6th. Said deed does not show that said Wallace was msovent or in contemplation of. insolvency.
"7th. Said deed shows that the property pretended to be
conveyed was to be disposed of by agents appointed by said
Wallace or by his authority, and that Lawrence was but an
agent and not a grantee."
This demurrer being sustained, the petitioner had leave to
amend, and did so by an averment that after the execution of
the assignment, and within the.time allowed. by law, the following named creditors of Wallace had come in and accepted uder
the same, to wit Holt, Rivers & Corley, $10840, [and 21
others named,] the total amount of whose claims aggregated
over $14,000, and it was averred that the indebtedness so
proven up against Wallace was largely in excess of the assets
that came to the plaintiff's hands, including the property
attached by the marshal.
The demurrer was still sustained, notwithstanding the amendment, and judgment was rendered for the defendants: toreverse which this writ of error was brought.
The assignment in question was made under a law of the

State of Texas passed on the 24th of March, 1879, immediately
after the repeal of the national bankruapt law, and evidently
intended to take the place of that law, as well for the benefit of creditors as that of insolvent debtors. Its main object
seems to have been to secure a speedy appropriation of all the
property of an insolvent debtor, -willing to make an assignment, to the payment of his debts, so far as it nught be
adequate for that purpose. As an encouragement to the making of such assignments, the law provides .that, if the debtor
so desires, he may make his assignment for the benefit of such
creditors as will accept their proportional share of his estate
and discharge him from their respective claims: And the
VOL. Cxl-V-

82

OCTOBER TErIMM, 1887.
Opmuon of the Court.

whole statute is evidently framed with a view to make the

proceedings as simple as possible, and to obviate technical
objections to their validity.
The principal provisions of the act, bearing upon. the questions raised in this case, are as follows, to wit:
Section 1 declares, that "every assignment made by an
insolvent debtor, or in contemplation of insolvency, for the
benefit of his creditors, shall provide, except as herein otherwise provided for, a distribution of all his real and personal
estate, other than that which is by law exempt from execution,
among all his creditors in proportion to their respective clais,
and however made or expressed shall have the effect aforesaid, and shall be construed to pass all such estate whether
specified or not."
Section 2 requires an inventory to be annexed containing a
list of all the creditors of the debtor, with their residence,
the amount due to each, and the consideration thereof, and
whether any judgment or security exists therefor,- and an
inventory of all the -debtor's estate, with an affidavit of the
truth thereof; but it is declared -in ยง 10, that no assignment shall be declared fraudulent or void for want of any
inventory or list; but it may be required by the assignee.
Section 3 enacts as follows .'I
Any debtor, desiring so to do,
may make an assignment for the benefit of such of his creditors only as will consent to accept their proportional share of
his estate, and discharge him from their respective claims, and
in such case the benefits of the assignment shall be limited
and restricted to the creditors consenting thereto; the debtor
shall thereupon be and stand discharged from all falrther
liability to such consenting creditors, on account of their
respective claims, and when paid they shall execute and deliver to the assignee for the debtor a release therefrom."
Section 4 provides for notice of his appointment to be given
by the assignee.
Section 5. "'The creditors of the assignor consenting to such
assignment shall make known to the assignee their consent in
writing, within four months after publication of the notice
provided in the preceding section, and no creditor not assent-

CUNINGHA.M v. NORTOL
Opnnon of the Court.

ing shall receive or take any benefit under the assignment;
provided, however, that any creditor who had no actual notice
of such assignment may make known his assent at any thnie
before any distribution of assets, under the assignment, hf s
been made."
Section 8. CCAny creditor not consenting to the assignment
may garnishee the assignee for any excess of such estate
remaining in his hands after the payvment of consenting creditors the amount of their debts, and the costs and expenses of
executing the assignment."
Section .9 provides-that property conveyed in contemplation
of an assignment, with intent to defeat, delay or defraud
creditors, or to give preferences, shall pass.to the assignee
notwithstanding such transfer, without affecting the validity
of the assignment.
Section 16 declares that: "Whenever any assignee shall
have fully performed the duties of his trust, and desires to be
finally discharged therefrom, he may make a report of his
proceedings under the assignment, showing the money and
assets that have come into his hands, and how the same have
been disbursed and disposed of, the truth of which shall be
verified by his affidavit, and such report shall thereupon be
filed and recorded in the office of the county clerk of the
county in which the assignment is recorded, and no action
shall be brought against such assignee by reason of anything
done by him under the assignment, as shown by his report,
unless the same be brought within twelve months from the
time of the filing thereof, as aforesaid; and any moneys or
funds on hand shall be deposited in the District Court subject
to be paid out upon the decree of said court."
The assignment im the present case was made under the 3d
section of the act, namely, for the benefit of such creditors of
the debtor as would consent to accept their proportional share
of his estate, and discharge hin from their claims; and..the
principal objection made to it is, that it directs the assignee to
pay over to the assignor any surplus remaining after paying
all the consenting creditors in. full, instead of paying such
surplus into court, as required by the 16th section of the act.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

It is contended that tis not only violates the law, but is a
reservation for the benefit of the debtor, tending to delay and
hinder those creditors who do not accede to the terms of the
assignment, in the collection of their debts. We do not see
the force of the latter part of the objection, namely, that the
stipulation referred to tends .to delay and hinder creditors.
The law itself, in ยง 8, takes care that the remedy of nonconsenting creditors shall not be,suspended for a moment.
By that section it is provided, that any such creditor may
garnishee the assignee for any excess of the estate remaining
in his hands after the payment of the consenting creditors,
and the costs. Of course, the stipulation in the- assignment,
.that the balance should be paid to the assignor, was intended
and understood to be subject to this right of garnishment.
Such a qualification of the stipulation would be a condition in
law. We do not see, therefore, how it can be said that the
terms of the assignment were intended to delay and hinder
creditors. The surplus referred to in the stipulation must, by
intendment of law, have been only such surplus as might
remain after satisfying the garnisheeing, as well as the consenting, creditors.
But conceding-that, as to the surplus still remaining, the
stipulation in the deed is not in conformity with the requirement of the 16th section, the question still remains whether
the stipulation only is to be regarded as void, or whether the
whole deed is void by reason of the stipulation. And the
answer to this question-depeufd upon the general policy- of
the statute. Is it intended- to restrain assignments, or to aid
and encourage them? If.restraint is the ob3ect, the regulations prescribed may, according to a well-settled course of
decisions in the state -and federal courts, be regarded as conditions precedent, necessary to be observed in order to render
an assignment 'falid. If aid and encouragement are intended
to be given to assignments, in the interest of creditors as well
as debtona, as a substitute for the bankrupt act, the courts
may well disregard incidental variations from the law as void
under its operation and sustain the assignment itself if it contains the main thing -the transfer -f the entire property of

CUNNINGHAX

v. NORTO.N.

Opinion of the Court.

the debtor for the benefit. of his creditors - and carry it out
in accordance With the law for the purposes intended. A
careful examination of the act convinces us that its policy is
to favor assignments, and to give them such construction that
they may stand rather than fall; and this, in the interest of
creditors, quite as much if not more than in that of debtors.
It will be noted that some of its express features look in that
direction; and the whole act taken together corroborates this
view. And such is the. light in- which it is viewed by the
supreme court of Texas.
In the case of BZum & Blum v. Wehorne et aZ., 58 Texas,
157, decided in December, 1882, it was held that when an
assignment for the benefit of creditors is made under the
statute, the rights of the creditors attach to it, and no act of
the assignor or of the assignee, or of both, at the time the
assignment is made, or preceding it, but in contemplation of
it, done with intent to defeat, delay, or defraud creditors, Will
authorize a creditor to treat the assignment as void, or justify
his attachment of the assigned property to the prejudice of
the other creditors. In that case, as in this, the assignment
was made under the 3d section of the act, for the benefit of
such creditors as would accept their dividends in satisfaction
of their claims. One of the non-consenting creditors attached
the property assigned. The assignee having died, a substituted assignee sued the attaching creditors for damages. They
pleaded that the debtor fraudulently disposed of. a large
amount of goods to his assignee, immediately before the
assignment, with intent to hinder, delay and defraud the
creditors. This plea was overruled on the ground above mentioned. The court said: "The manifest purpose of the act of
March 24, 1879, (General Laws of 1879, p. 57,) was to provide
a mode by which such debtors as were contemplated thereby
might make assignments of their property, simple in form,
and yet effective to pass all of their property, real and personal, to an assignee for the benefit of creditors, except such
as might be exempt from forced sale. It further manifests an
intention to make such assignments effective without reference to the form of the deed of assignment, provided it evi-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Opnion of the Court.

dences an intention to pass to the assignee all the property Of
the debtor subject to forced sale,, for the purpose of distribution among creditors, and is executed in substantial compliance with the requirements of the act. It also evidences an
intention to avoid much of the difficulty heretofore met with
by the courts, in determining whether assignments were valid
or not, and to.supply, by the law itself, much in which the
deed of assignment 'might be deficient under the rules applicable to ordinary assignments." p. 16. The court then proceeds to the particular case, and in view of the provisions of
the first and ninth sections of the act declares that "the
assignment passed all the property of the debtor except that
exempt; as well that in his possession or owned by him at
the time the assignment was made, as that which he may
have fraudulently attempted to convey; and neither the fraud
of the assignor, nor of the assignee, could annul the assignment, in which all creditors -might have an interest. When
the assignment is completed, the rights of the creditors attach
to it." p. 162. Again, "lNo act of the assignee, nor of the
assignor, after the assignment is made, or preceding it, but in
contemplation of it, however fraudulent the act may be, shall
divest the right of the creditors to have the trust estate administered for their benefit in accordance with the spirit of the
statute, and the act- itself provides means by which such administration may be enforced in default of the faithful performance of his trust by the assignee. To permit one or more of
the creditors, whenever in their opinion the estate was not all
delivered to the assignee, or when the assignee might, in their
opinion, be acting in violation of his duty, to disregard the
assignment and seize and have sold.the trust estate, or any
part of it, for the satisfaction of such dissatisfied creditors,
would contravene the very purpose of the law, which was
intended to provide for the equitable distribution of the proceeds of the estate of an insolvent or failing debtor.' p. 164.
In another case, decided at the same time, !Donoko v. -Fish,
58 Texas, 164, where the whole property of the debtor was
not assigned, as where two partners made an assignment of
their partnership property only, (and not their -individual

CUNINMGHA

v. NORTON.

OpinLon of the Court.

property,) for the benefit of such creditors only as would
accept their proportional share thereof, under the third section
of the act, it was held that such an assignment failed to
comply with the fundamental requisite of the act, that all the
debtor's property, not exempt from forced sale, must be
assigned; and, therefore, that it was void as against attaching
creditors. The same views, however, were expressed by the
court, as in the previous case, as to the liberal construction
which would be placed upon an assignment which purported
to convey all the property of the debtors, however defective
it might be in form.
In the case of Keating v. Thaugun , 61 Texas, 518, decided
in May, 1884, the -very point now under consideration came
efore the court, and it was held that the stipulation that the
assignee should pay the surplus to the assignor after the consenting creditors were paid in full, did not vitiate the deed of
assignment. The court say:
"Under the statute it is unimportant whether the assignor,
by the assignment, reserves to himself any surplus which may
remain after payment of the consenting creditors, for the
statute itself regulates that matter, independent of what the
terms of the deed may be in this respect, if the assignment be,.
as'is this, under the third section of the act which, with some
of the following sections, refers to assignments made for the
benefit of consenting creditors 6nly Under such an assignment strictly, other creditors than those consenting to the
release of the debtor do not take at all, but the eighth section
of the act provides that non-consenting creditors may garnishee the assignee for any excess of such estate remaining
in his hands after the payment to the consenting creditors of
their debts and the costs and expenses of executing the assignment.
"If nou-consenting creditors should not pursue that course,
in case of an excess, the sixteenth section of the act, when the
trust has been executed and the assignee desires to be discharged therefrom, provides that the excess shall be paid into
the District Court, subject to be paid out upon the decree of
that court, which would, no doubt, be so made as.to protect

OCTOBER TERM, 1t87.

Opin.on of the Court.
non-consenting creditors who might show themselves entitled
thereto, and take the necessary steps to fix a legal claim on
the fund, in so far as the fund would go; if, however, no claim
to such a fund was made by any creditor, the court after the
lapse of a reasonable time, would certainly direct the excess
to be delivered to the assignor. Thus the statute regulates
the whole matter, and must control if there be any conflict
between its provisions and the deed. If the property passes
to the assignee for the benefit of creditors generally, or for
the benefit of consenting creditors alone, no provision which
the assignee can make in the deed can interfere with the
distribution of'the estate as the statute requires." p. 523.
It is suggested by the defendants' counsel that this decision
was made in view of an amendatory statute passed in April,
"1883, which declares "that no fraudulent act, intent or purpose of the assignor or assignee shall have the effect to defeat
the assignment, or to deprive the creditors consenting thereto
from the benefits thereof, but any such fraudulent act, intent
or purpose on the part of the 4ssignee shall be a sufficient
cause for his removal, as being an unsuitable person to,perform the trust, and any consenting creditor may be or become
a party to prosecute or defend in any suit or proceeding necessary or proper for the enforcement of his rights under such
assignments, or for the protection of his interests m the
assigned property." It is contended that this provision renders
null and void stipulations like the one in question, so that the
deed of assignment may have the effect and operation intended
by the statute of 1879, notwithstanding such stipulation; and
that the decision in Jeating v. Vaughan was based on the
amendment. But thus cannot be true, inasmuch as the assignment in that case was made on the 9th of May, 1883, and the
amendment did not go into effect until the 12th of July of
that year. It carries out, however, the policy which we have
supposed to pervade the act of 1879, of securing to the creditors of an insolvent debtor, making an assignment, a speedy
and just appropriation of all his property to the payment of
is debts.
In the case of Schloolher v. Uutekins, 66 Texas, 324, the most

CUNNINGHAM -v. NORTON.
Opinion of the Court.

recent reported case on the subject, the deed of assignment
(which was also executed before the amendment of 1883 took
effect) authorized the assignee to sell the property at public or
private sale, to employ the assignors to aid in the disposition
of the property, with such compensation as he might deem
proper, and to do various other things which the defendants
contended were not lawful. But the court said. "If the deed
of assignment attempted to confer powers which, under the
law, an assignee could not legally exercise in the execution of
the trust, this would not be a sufficient reason for holding an
assignment invalid. When an assignment is made under the
statute the rights of creditors- vest, and they can compel the
assignee to exercise the powers which the law expressly, or by
implication, confers upon hun, as can they restrain him if he
attempts to exercise powers which the law does not confer
upon him." p. 329.
This view of the proceeding, as being wholly governed and
controlled by law, and regarding as null and inoperative stipulations and powers in the deed contrary to, or not M conformity with, the provisions of the statute, and noi as affecting the validity of the deed itself, so long as the main purpose
is accomplished, of appropriating the whole of the debtor's
property to the payment of his debts, seems to us so in harmony with the spirit and purpose of the act, that we do not
hesitate to adopt it. We have given careful attention to the
opinion of the Circuit Court in the present case, but have
failed to be convinced by it, and feel constrainedi to express
our concurrence in the line of decisions of the Supreme Court
of Texas.
One or two other poins are made in the briefs of counsel
against the validity of the deed, which require but a brief
notice. They are substantially met by the considerations
already adverted to.
First. It is objected that the deed does not convey all the
debtor's estate, not exempt from forced sale, for the benefit
of his creditors. It is a sufficient answer to say that it does,
in terms, convey "all his lands, tenements, hereditaments,
goods, chattels, property and choses in action of every name,

OCTOBER TERME, 1887.
Syllabus.

nature and description, wheresoever the same may be, except
such property as may be by the constitution and laws of the
state exempt from forced sale." According to the decisions
of the Supreme Court of Texas, this general description is
sufficient, under the statute of 1879, to convey all the debtor's
property. Blum & lmum v. Telborne et a3., 58 Texas, 157,
161. The first section of the act declares that the assignment,
however expressed, shall be construed to pass all the debtor's
real and personal estate, whether specified therein or not.
Secondly. It is objected that the deed of assignment does
not, on its face, show that the assignor was insolvent, or in
contemplation of insolvency. The obvious answer is, that if
this is a, necessary requirement, the deed does state that the
assignor "is indebted to divers persons in considerable sums
of money, which he is at present unable to pay in full."
When a person is unable to pay his debts, he is understood to
be insolvent. It is difficult to give a more accurate definition
of insolvency. The objection is without foundation.
We do not observeany other objection which it is necessary
specially to notice.
Thej udgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the cause
remanded, with m4Otiuctions to proceed t ere according
to aw.

DAVISONf v. DAVIS.
APPEAL FROM TEM CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF IE.TUCKY.
io.1iO.

Argued December 6, 7,18S7. -Decided

March 19, 188.

The payee of a promissory note gave to the promisor a receipt acknowledging it as given for the purchase of personal property to be delivered
to the promisor on payment of his note. The note not being paid at
maturity, the payee notified the promisor that he should not recognize
his further claim to the property, and, -after a further lapse of time
without hearing from him, destroyed the note. Heldl, that the sale was
conditional, not to be completed until payment of the note.
The remedy by bill in equity to compel a specific performance of a contract

