OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

interpretation of the language of the section. The manifest
intention of the law is to permit the State in which a national
bank is located to tax, subject to the limitations prescribed, all
the shares of its capital stock without regard to their ownership. The proper inference is, that the law permits, in the
particular instance, the taxation of the national banks owning shares of the capital stock of another national bank by
reason of that ownership, on the same footing with all other
shares.
Other questions have been raised by counsel for the defence.
The right of the plaintiff to sue is denied, on the ground that

the right of action belongs to the owners of the shares taxed;
the right of recovery is denied, on the ground that the payment by the plaintiff was voluntary, and the right of action,
if it exists, it is alleged is against the collecting officer, and not
the city of Boston. These questions we have not considered it
necessary to examine or decide, preferring to rest our judgment upon the validity of the tax.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is accordingly
.Afflrmed.
MR. JusrcE BRADLEy, Y-n. JusrioE GR Y, and MRi. JusmoE
BLATooRD did not sit in this.case or take any part m the

d~csion.

ARTU1

S EXEOUTORS v. "BUTTD.RFIELD.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUrT COURT OF THE UTNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 161. Argued February O,18SS.-Declded March 19, 1888.

"Goat's hair goods," composed of 80 per cent of goat's hair and 20 per
cent of cotton, used chiefly for women's dresses, and which were Imported into the United States between January 2-, 1874, and June 25,
1874,, were subject to the duty imposed by the act of July 14, 1870, 16
Stat. 264, c. 255, § 21, upon "manufactures of hair not otherwise herein
provided for," as modified by the act of June 6, 1872, 17 Stat. 231, and

ARTHUR v. BUTTERFIELD.
Opinion of the Court.
not to the duty imposed by the act of March 2, 1861', 14 Stat. 561, c. 197,
§ 2, upon "women's and children's dress goods and real or imitation
Italian cloths, composed wholly or in part of wool, worsted, the hair of
being found by the jury that
the alpaca, goat, Or other like animals "-it
they were not known in commerce among nercbants and importers as
"women's and children's dress goods."
rn the absence of a settled designation of a cloth by merchants and imporlers, its designation as hair, silk, cott n,or woolen for the purposes
of customs revenue depends upon the predominance of such article
in its composition, and not upon the absence of any other material.
The words "not otherwise herein provided for" in a section in a customs
revenue act, mean not otherwise provided for In that act.
To place an article among those designated as "enumerated," so as to take
it out of the operation of the similitude clause of the customs revenue laws, Rev. Stat. § 2499, It is not necessary that It should be specifically mentioned.
The words "manufactures of hair" are a sufficient designation to place
such manufactures among the enumerated articles.

Tins was an action at law to recover customs duties alleged
to have been illegally exacted. Judgment for plaintiff. Defendant sued out this writ of error. The case isstated in the

opinion of the court.
Mr. S'oZicito' Generalfor plaintiffs in error.
.2r. George Bliss for defendants in error.
31E. JusTicn

FmEI

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought by the plaintiffs below to recover

of the late collector of the port of New York certain sums of
nioney alleged to have" been illegally exacted as duties on
goods imported by them. It. was tried in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Southern District of NKew York,
-where ihe plaintiffs recovered a verdict, and to review the
judgmnent entered thereon the executors of the collector, since
deceased, have sued out this writ of error.
The complaint describes the goods imported in general
terms as manufactures of hair. There were fourteen importations between the 24th of Tanuary and the 25th of June, 1874.
Upon the goods, which were styled "goat hair goods," the

OCTOBER TERI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

aollector assessed'duties under provisions of the actof March 2,
1867, c. 197, § 2, 14 Stat. 561, "to provide increased Revenue
from imported Wool, and for other Purposes," relating to
women's and children's dress goods, and real or imitation
Italian cloths, composed wholly or in part of wool, worsted,
the hair of the alpaca, goat, or other like animals, at six cents
a square yard and thirty-five per centum acZvaZorem, upon such
as were valued at not more than twenty cents a square yard,
and at eight cents a square yard and forty per centum ad
valorem, upon such as were valued at more than twenty cents
a square yard.
The plaintiffs contended that this assessment of duties was
erroneous; that the duties 9hould have been assessed under the
21st section of the act of July 14, 1870, "to reduce internal
Taxes, and for other Purposes," 16 Stat. 20-, c. 255, § 21, as
the goods were within its terms "manufactures of hair not
otherwise provided for," and that a reduction thereon should
be made of ten per centum, under the act of June 6, 1872.
17 Stat. 231. That section provides that "after the thirtyfirst day of December, eighteen hundred and seventy, in lieu
of the duties now imposed by law on the articles hereinafter
enumerated or provided for, imported from foreign countries,
there shall be levied, collected, and paid the following duties
and rates of duties, that is to say:
.
.
On hair cloth of
the description known as hair seating, eighteen inches wide or
over, forty cents per square yard; less than eighteen inches
-%wide, thirty cents per square yard. On hair cloth known as
crinoline cloth, and on all other manufacturee of- hair not
otherwiseprowdedfor,thirty per centum ad valorem."
By the joint resolution of January 30, 1871, this clause was
amended by the insertion of the word "herein," between the
words "otherwise" and "provided." 16 Stat. 592.
The reduction of ten per cent under the act of June 6,
1872, was made upon such of the invoices as were produced,
but most of the invoices had been mislaid. It was not, therefore, shown that such reduction had been made upon all of
them.
On the trial it appeared that the "goat hair goodsX are

ARTTHUR v. BUTTERFIELD.
Opinion of the Court.

fabrics manufactured of cotton, and the hair of the angora, or
other goat, the warp being cotton and the woof being goat's
hair; that their chief use is for women's dresses; that they
are known in the trade under such specific names as briltiantines, lustrines, alpacas, and mohairs; that the goat's hair of
which they are composed in part constitutes eighty per cent
of the hole value, and the cotton twenty per cont.
It also appeared that crinoline cloth is made of cotton and
hair, the long hair being from the tail or mane of the horse
and woven into a cotton warp, the width being governed by
the length of the hair, and that it is used for ladies' underwear; that hair seating is a similar fabric to crinoline cloth,
the only difference being that it is more closely woven, and is
used mainly for upholstering purposes.
Evidence was offered by the defendant tending to show that
the goat hair goods are generally known m the trade and
commerce of the country under the name of women's dress
goods; but on this point the evidenc.e was conflicting, some
of the witnesses stating that they were known by their specific
names as brilliantines and alpacas, and some that they were
at the time of importation known as women's dress goods.
It was stipulated, for the punpose of the trial, that if the
jury should render a verdict for the plaintiff it should be
subject to adjustment as to formal requisites and amounts at
the custom-house, under the direction of the court. And to
raise the questions involved it was also stipulated, as to one of
the importations that the plaintiffs had paid the duties assessed
and in due time filed their written protest, appealed to the
Secretary of the Treasury, and brought this action.
When the evidence was closed, the court was requested to
direct a verdict for the defendant on the ground that such
goat hair goods were:
1st. Women's dress goods, composed wholly or in part of
the hair of the alpaca, goat, or other like ammal;
2d. That they were not manufactures' of hair, bfit were
manufactures of mixed materials, and by the similitude clause
were, liable to duty as manufactures of cotton, the latter being
assessed at & higher rate of duty than that prescribed for
manufactures of hair; and,

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opmon of the Court.

3d. That under the act of 1870, the terms "all other manufactures of hair not otherwise provided for," meant other
manufacures of hair, like those enumerated m the same
section, namely, crinoline cloth or hair seating, and that there
was no evidence that the goat hair goods were like them.
The court overruled the motion, and the defendant excepted.
It then instructed the jury in substance as follows: That.
under the act of 1867, which remained in force until 1870,
there was assessed a certain duty on women's and children's
dresses composed wholly or in part of wool, worsted, hair of
the alpaca, goat, and other like animals; that in 1870 the law
was changed in some respects, so as to make the duty assessable on hair cloth, known as crinoline cloth, and all other
manufactures of hair, at a less rate; that the goods upon
which the duties were assessed m this case were manufactures
principally of hair; that the principal value of them was of
hair; that according to the evidence eighty per cent was of
hair and twenty per cent of cotton; that the general language
of the act of 1870 would control and guide in the assessment
of duties upon them, unless they had, before the passage of
the act, come to.be specifically known as dres3 goods among
merchants and importers; that the question, therefore, was
whether they had acquired such-a name in the trade and commerce of the country as to be specifically known by it, instead
of the general name of manufactures of hair; that if they had
not acquired such specific name, and were not known by it,
they would come under the general name of manufactures of
hair, and the plaintiffs would be entitled to recover; and that
on the other hand. if they had acquired such specific name,
and were known by it in trade and commerce, the defendant
would be entitled to a verdict.
The defendant took various exceptions to this charge, and
in this court presents anew the questions raised upon the instructions refused.
The instructions were in our opinion properly refused, and
the case was presented to the jury as fully as was required for
their appreciation of the question involved. The goods were
composed of eighty per cent of hair, and there is no provision

ARTHUR -it. BUTTERFIELD.
Opinion of the Couit.

of law, to which our attention has been drawn, that takes
goods thus composed, not having a specific commercial designation, from the general designation as manufactures of hair.
The finding of the jury is conclusive that they were not Irnown
in commerce, among merchants and'importers, as women's andchildren's dress goods. It- is well settled that a designation of
an article of commerce by merchants and importers, when
clearly established, determines the construction of a revenue
law when that article is mentioned. It was so held in Artkur
v. i.forrson, 96"U. S. 108, and in many other cases, which are
cited in the opinion of the court in that case. In Elliott v.
Swartwout, 10 Pet. 137, 151, the court said that "laws imposing duties on importations of goods are intended for practical
use and application by men engaged in commerce; and hence
it has become a settled rule in the interpretation of statutes of
this description to construe the language adopted by the legislature, and particularly in the denomination of articles, according to the commercial understanding of the terms used. .This
rule is fully recQgnized and established by this court in the
case of fTwo Rundred 07tests of Tea, reported n 9 Wheat.
438."
The fact that twenty per cent of cotton entered into the
composition of the goods, and only eighty .per cent of them
are of hair, does not change their character as manufactures
of hair within the meaning of the act of 1870. Crinoline and
hair seating, both of which are in that act specifically designated as hair cloth, have also cotton in their composition.
The designation of a cloth, as hair, silk, or cotton, depends on
the predominance of such article in its composition, and not
upon absence of any other material.
The 21st section of the act of 1870 having been, as mentioned. above, amended in 1871 by the insertion of the word
"herein" between "otherwise" and "provided," the clause of
the section is to be construed as though its language was that
"after the 31sT of December, 18-70, in lieu of the duties now
imposed by law on the articles hereinafter enumerated or provided for, imported from foreign countries, there shJ1 be levied,
collected, and paid the following duties and rates of duties,

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

that is to say: . . . On hair cloth of the description known as

hair seating, eighteen inches wide or over, forty cents per
square yard; less than eighteen inches wide, thirty cents per
square yard. On hair cloth known as crinoline cloth, and o
..aZZ otaer imanafacture8 qof hair'not otkerwie hereina prnovided
for, thirty per centum ad valorem." -The words "all other
manufactures of hair not otherwise herein provided for" mean
not otherwise provided for in the act of which they are a part.
Sint v. Fiske, 23 Wall. 874. There is no provision in that
act for other manufactures of hair than crinoline and hair
seating. It therefore necessarily follows that if the goat hair
goods in question are to be deemed manufactures of hair the
duties are to be assessed in conformity with that act, and not
according to the provisions of any other act.
The construction of the clause for whih the government
contends, if admitted, would lead to great embarrassment, if
not insurmountable difficulty, in determining the duties to be
assessed on many articles. Its position is, that by "all other
manufactures of hair not otherwise provided for," is meant all
other manufactures of hair similar to crinoline cloth and hair
seating. If this- be correct it would be impossible to say at
what rate of duty such other manufactures of hair are to be
assessed, whether by the square yard rate or the ad vaorem rate.
The two rates could not be indifferently applied. !'he natural
meaning of the section is that on crinoline cloth an ad vaorem
duty shall be assessed, and a similar duty on all other manufactures of hau not otherwise provided for in the act.
The similitude clause can-have no bearing on the question.
That clause only provides that there shall be levied on each
-non-enumerated article which bears a similitude, either in
material, quality, texture, or the use to which it may be applied, to any article enumerated as chargeable with duty, the
same rate of duty which is levied on the enumerated article
which it most resembles in any of the particulars mentioned.
Rev. Stat. § 2499. To place articles among those designated
as enumerated, it. is not necessary that. they should be specifically mentioned. It is sufficient" that they are designated in
any way to distinguish them from other articles. Thus the

CUNNINGHAM v. NORTON.
Statement of the Case.

words "'manufactures of which steel is a component part," and
"manufactures of which glass is a component part," have been
held a sufficient designation to render the goods enumerated
articles under the statute, and take them out of the similitude
clause. .Arthur v. S'usfteld, 96 U. S. 128. Upon the same
principle "manufactures of hair" must be held a sufficient
designation to place such manufactures among the enumerated articles.
Tudgment a~ffl7ed.

CUNhNINGHAM

oi. NORTONT.

ERROR TO THE OIROUIT COURT OF THE 'UNITED STA.TE FOR
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 74. Argued November 17, 187.-Declded March 19, 1888.
Whether, In a deed of assignment by a debtor for the benefit of creditors
made under a state statute, a disregard of and departure from somQ
direction3 of the statute shall invalidate the assignment or only make
the varying provision in it void, will depend upon the general policy of
the statute-whether it is intended to restrain or to favor such assignments.
A provision in an assignment by a debtor for the benefit of his creditors
under the statute of the State of Texas of March 24, 1879, Rev. Stat.
Texas, 1879, App. 5, that any surplus shall be paid to the debtor, made
in violation of the direction in § 16 of the statute that such-surplus shall
be paid into court, does not affect the validity of the assignment, but
only invalidates the violating provision.
The words -all his lands, tenements, hereditaments, goods, chattels,
property, and choses in action qf every name, nature and description,
wheresoever -the same may be, except such property as may be by the
constitution and laws of the State exempt from forced sale," are a
sufficient description to convey all the debtor' estate, under the Texas
statute of March 21, 1879, regnlating assignments by insolvent debtors.
A statement in a deed of assignment by a debtor for the benefit of- his
creditors, that he" is indebted to divers persons in considerable sums-of
money which he-is at present unable to pay in fall".is a declaration of
the insolvency of the grantor.

THIS was an action in the nature of trespass brought by
an assignee of an insolvent debtor against a marshal of the

