OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

necessary to a forfeiture. If it 'fails to do this it is the duty
of the court to dismiss it, whether issue is joined or not."
Concurring fully in these views, I dissent from the judgment
of the court.
NMa,

JUsT= BRADLuv was not present at the argument of

this case, and took no part in its decision.

ORIGET v. UiNITED STATES.
EOR TO THE OMUrr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW 'YORK.
lNo. 186. Argued February 16, 188.-UDcldea March g9,
1885.

A paper headed "Bill of. Exceptions" not bearing the signature of the
judge, but containing at its foot these words, " Allowed and ordered on
ile November 22, '83, A. B.," the trial haviug taken place In June, 1883,

cannot be regarded as a bill of -exceptions, because not signed by the
judge, as required by § 953 of the Revised Statutes.
An information in a suit in ren against certhin nported goods seized as
forfeited for a violation of the customs revenue laws, alleged an entry
of the goods, which were subject to duties, with intent to defraud the
revenue by false and fraudulent invoices, by means whereof the United
States were deprived of the lawful duties accruing upon the goods embraced in the invoices. The answer of the claimant denied that the
goods became ,,
forfeited in manner and form as in said information Is
alleged " At the trial the -3uryrendered "a verdict for the informants,
and against the claimant for the condemnation of the goods mentioned
in the information, and that the goods were brought in with lnten to
defraud the United States." The decree set foith that the jury having
"by their verdict found for the United States, condemning the said
goods," they were "accordingly condemned as forfeited to the United
States:" Held,
(1) The verdict was a sufficient compliance with the requirement of § 16
of the act of June 22 1874, c. 391, (18..Stat. 189,) that, in order
to a forfeiture the jury should find that "the alleged acts.were
done with an actual intention to defraud the Upited States;"
(2) The judgment was sufflcient without reciting any special fi ding by
the jury as to an intent to defraud.

ORIGET v. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the Court
Under § 12 of the act of June 22, 1874, c. 891, (18 Stat. 188,) merchandise
can be forfeited independently of the imposition of the fine mentioned

In that section.
for the condemnation of four cases of goods.seized
IN irt,
for forfeiture for violation of the customs revenue laws. Judgnent in the District Court condemning the goods, wich was
affirmed in the Circuit Court. The clainant sued out this
writ of error.
.Afr. Edwin

. Smit for plaintiff m error.

3~r' SoZicitor GeneraZ for defendant in error.
MR. JusTiOn

BLAEOHFO3D

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in rem, brought by the United States, in the
District Court of the United States for the Southern District
of New York, against four cases of merchandise, seized for
forfeiture for violations of the customs revenue laws. Ond of
them was imported into the port of New. Ybrk on the 6th-of
:Mfarch, 1882, an& the other three were imported on the 10th
of March, 1882. The information proceeds agaanst them for
violations of §%2839 and 2864 of the Revised Statutes, and
of the 12th section of the act of June 22, 1871, e.-391, (18
The latter section is in these words: "Sec. 12.
Stat. 188).
That any owner, importer, consignee, agent, or other person
who shall, with intent to defraud the revenue, make, or attempt
to make, any entry of imported merchandise, by means of any
fiaudulent or false invoice, affiSdavit, letter, or-paper, or by
means of any false statement, written or verbal, or who shall
be guilty of any wilful act or omission by means whereof the
United States shall be deprived of the lawful duties, or any
portion thereof, accruing upon the merchandise, or any portion
thereof, embraced or referred to -insuch invoice, affidavit, letter,
paper, or statement, or affected by such act or omission, shall,
for each offence, be fined in any sum not exceeding five thousand dollars nor less than fifty dollars, or be.imprisoned for any
time not exceeding two years, or both; andi iii addition to
VOL. cXXV-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

such, fine, such merchandise shall be forfeited; which forfeiture
shall only apply to the whole of the merchandise in the case
or package containing the particular article or articles of nierchandise to which such fraud or alleged fraud relates; and
anything contained in any act which provides for the forfeiture or confiscation of an entire invoice in consequence of any
item or items contained in the same being undervalued, be, and
the'same is hereby, repealed." As the material questions in
the case arise in respect to section 12 of the act of 1874, it will
not be necessary to refer particularly to the counts founded on
the sections of the Revised Statutes.
One count, in regard to three of the cases, alleges that, on
or about the 10th of March, 1882,the owner, importer, consignee, or agents of the merchandise, or some other person or
persons now unknown to the collector and to the attorney for
the United States, with intent to defraud the revenue, made
or attempted to inake an entry of the merchandise, which was
then and there subject to duties, and had been imported into
the United States, withm the district of the city of New York,
from Paris, a foreigi, place, by way of Havre, in the vessel
Am6rique,.by means of false and fraudulent invoices, affidavits,
letters, and papers, and .1 means ol false statements, written
and verbal, by means whereof the United States were deprived
of the lawful duties, or a portion thereof, accruing upon the
merchandise, or a portion thereof, embraced and referred to in
such invoices, affidavits, letters, and papers, and such false
statements, the cases whose contents are proceeded against for
forfeiture containing particular articles of merchandise to
whilh said alleged frauds related, contrary to said 12th section.
Another count, in regard to the three cases, alleges, that, on
or about the 10th of March, 1882,-the owner3 importer, consignee, or agents of the merchandise, or some other person or
persons now unknown to the collector and to the said attorney, with intent to defraud the revenue, made or attempted to
make an entry of the merchandise, which was then and there
subject to duties, and had been imported into the United States
within said district, from Paris, a foreign place, by -. a3l of
Havre, in the ship Am~rique, and that the said owner, in-

ORIGET v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

porter, or agents, and other person or persons unknown, was
and were guilty of certain acts and omissions, -wheieby the
United States were deprived of the ]awful duties, or a portion
thereof, accruing upon the merchandise, or a portion thereof;
affected by said acts and omissions, the cases whose contents
are proceeded against for forfeiture containing -particular
articles of merchandise to which said alleged frauds and said
acts and omissions related, contrary to said 12th section.
There were two similar counts in regard to the fourth case.
The counts founded on § 2829 of the Revised Statutes allege
a failure to invoice the goods according to their actual cost
at the place of exportation, with design to avoid the duties
thereon; and those founded on § .2864 allege an entry of, or
attempt to enter, the goods by means of false invoices and
papers.
A claim was interposed -by one Origet, as owner of the
goods, and an answer denying that the goods became "forfeited in mannez and form as in said nformation is alleged."
The case was tried by a jury, and the minutes of the trial
show that the jury rendered "a verdict for the informants and
against the claimant for the, condemnation of the goods mentioned in the information, and that the goods were brought in
with intent to defraud the United States." Thereupon a
decree was entered, which set forth, that, the jury having "by
their verdict found for the: United States, condemning the said
goods," they were'" accordingly condemned as forfeited to the
United States." On a writ of error sued out by the claimant
from the Circuit Court, that court affirmed. the decree of the
District Court, and remanded -the case to the latter court for
the execution of its decree. The clainant has brought the
case to this court by a writ of error.
The counsel for the claimant seeks to raise objections to the
admission of certain evidence at the trial, and to the exclusion
of certain other evidence, upon what appears in a paper found
in the record and headed"' Bill of Exceptions" .But the paper
does not bear the signature of the District Judge. The trial
took place on the 8th of June, 1883, At the foot of the paper
-wed and crdered on
referred to appears the following: "

OCTOBER TERME

1887.

Opinion of the Court.
file N~ovember 22, '83. A. B." This cannot be regarded as a
proper signature by the judge to a bill of exceptions, nor can
the paper be regarded for the purposes of review as a bill of
exceptions. To make it clear that a seal to a bill of exceptions was not necessary to its validity, Congress, by § 4 of the
act of June 1, 1872, c. 255, (17 Stat. 197,) now § 953 of the
Revised Statutes, enacted as follows: "A bill of exceptions
allowed in any cause shall be deemed sufficiently anthent.icated
if signed by the judge of the court in which the cause was
tried, or by the presiding judge thereof, if more than one judge
sat on the trial of the 6ause, without any seal of court or judge
being annexed theretoP' This provision merely dispensed with
the seal. The necessity for the signature still remains. Wo
cannot regard the initials "A. B." as the signature of the
judge, or as a sufficient authentication of the bill of..xceptions,
or as sufficient evidence of its allowance by the judge or the
court. Therefore, *thequestions purporting to be raised by
the paper cannot be considered.
An objection is made-to the verdict, founded upon § 16 of
the act of June 22, 1874, c. 391, (18 Stat. 189,) which is in
these words- "Sec. 16.' That m all actions, suits, and proceedings in any court of the United States, now pending or
hereafter commenced or prosecuted, to enforce or declare the
forfeiture of any goods, wares, or merchandise, or to recover
the value thereof, or any other sum alleged to be forfeited
by reason of .any violation of the provisions of the customs
revenue laws, or any of such provisions, in which action,
suit, or proceeding an issue or issues of fact shall have been
joined, it shall be the duty of the court, on the trial thereof,
to submit to the jury, as a distinct and separate proposition,
whether the alleged acts were done with an aqtual intention
to defraud the United States, and to require upon-such proposition, a special finding by such jury; or, if such issues be tried
by the court without a jury, it shall be the duty of the court
to pass upon and decide such proposition as a distinct and
separate finding of fact; and in such -cases, unless intent to
defraud shall be so found, no fine, penalty, or forfeiture shall

be imposed."

ORIGBT v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

The objection made is, that the verdict states "that the
goods were brought in with intent to defraud the United
States," and does not state, in the language of § 16, that the
acts allegd in the information were done with such intent.
But we are of opinion that this objection has no force. It is
evident that, under the informatibn and the answer, the question of intent to defraud, submitted to the jury and passed
upon by them, must have been as to the intent'to defraud in
the respects set forth in the information and denied by the
answer; and the finding "that the goods were brought in
with intent to defraud the United States" must, in respect
to the counts founded o4.§ 12 of the'act of 1874, be regarded
as a finding, that the acts alleged in those counts were done
with such intent to defraud. The words "brought in" may
fairly be construed as having reference to the entering or
attempting to enter the goods by the means specified in those
counts, as the entry of the goods is the necessary means, provided by law, for bringing the goods within the -control of
the importer, so that they may be employed by him for the
purposes for which they were imp6rfed. There is no count
in the information founded upon an unlawful importation or
bringing in of the merchandise, in any other sense than that
it was entered or attempted to be entered by means of the
false papers mentioned in the information.
Ii is also objected, that tle judgment of the District Court
only recites that the jury "found for the United States condemning the said goods," and does not recite any special
finding as to an intent to defraud. This objection is overruled for the reasons set forth in the opinion in the case of
Fredeintein v. United &tates,just decided, (ante, p. 224).
It is also iade a point in the brief of the counsel'for the.
claimant, that the District Court had no juirisdiction of the
cause of adtion set fbrth'in the information, because the only
method of obtaining a condemnation of-goods for the causes
mentioned in § 12 of the act of 1874;*is "inthe course of a
proceeding by indintment against an offender; -that a proceeding against the goods is only authorized by that section
as an incident of the prosecution -f an offender ban indict-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

ment; that the forfeiture of the goods, like the fine and the
imprisonment prescribed, is a part of the punishment, upon
a conviction on a crimmal prosecution; that the forfeiture is
imposed only as an addition to a fine, where that is imposed,
and that the merchandise cannot be forfeited independently
of the imposition of the fine. But we are of opinion that this
is not the proper construction of the section. The fine, or the
imprisonment, or both, are to follow conviction on a criminal
prosecution of. the owner, importer, consignee, agent, or other
person who does the act forbidden by the section, with the
intent therein mentioned. The section ihen goes on to say
that, "in addition to such flue, such merchandise shall be forfeited." The sole meaning of this is, that thfe person owning
the merchandise shall lose it by forfeiture, in addition to such
possible loss as may come to him by the imposition, if he is
the offender, of the pecuniary fine, on the criminal prosecution
against him. But the merchandise is to be forfeited irrespective of any. criminal prosecution. The forfeiture accrues to
the United States on the commission or onission of the acts
specified. No condition is attached to the imposition of the
forfeiture. The section does not say that the merchandise
shall be forfeited only on the conviction of gome offender,
whether the owner of the merchandise or one of the other
persons named in the section. The person punished for the
offence may be an entirely different person from- the owner
of the merchandise, or any person interested in it. The forfeiture of the goods of the principal can form no part of the
personal punishment of his agent.
The construction contended for by the claimant would
require the imposition of the forfeiture only when a fine was
imposed; and not only could the forfeiture not be imposed
%khere imprisonment was awarded, but the language would
require that, on a criminal conviction of the agent, the merchandise of the principal should be forfeited, in order to allow
of the imposition of any fine on the convicted agent. Again,
two persons, a consignee and an agent, aside from the owner,
might each of them be guilty and each of them be separately
prosecuted crinnally, and, it the first one convicted were

SOUTHERN PEVELOPMENT CO. v. SILVA.

2-17

,5yllahus.

fined and the goods were forfeited, the second one tried could
no1t, on conviction, be punished by a fine, because, the merchandise having been already fotfeited, it could not be a
second time forfeited, and so the requirement of the statute
that the merchandise should be forfeited in addition to the
imposition of the fine could not be-carried out. We conclude,
therefore, that the forfeiture imposed by the section is no part
of the punishment for the offence.
In the case of C.fey v. United States, 116 U. S. 436, 443,
-where § 3257 of the Revised Statutes nnp-sed on a distiller
for forbidden acts thd forfeiture of his distillery, and also a
fine and imprisonment, this court held, on the authority of
The Palmyra, 12 Wheat. 1-, 14, 15, that the forfeiture was to
be enforced by a civil suit in ren, and the fine and imprisonment in a criminal proceeding.
The decree of the Circuit Court is affirwed.

SOUTHERN DEVELOPR-fENT COMPANTY v. SILVA.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRoIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NbORTHERN DISTRICT'OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 1210.

Submitted JanuaryS, 183S.-Deelded March 10, lss..

The general rule that when the answer of the defendant In a cause In equity
is direct, positive, and unequivocal in its denial of the allegations in the
bill, and an answer on oath is not waived, the complainant wvill not be
entitled fo a decree unless these denials are disproved by evidence of

greater weight than the testimony of one witness, or by that of one writness with corroborating circumstances, applies when the equity of the
complainant's bill is the allegation of fraud..
In order to rescind a contract for the purchase of real estate on the ground
of fraudulent representation by the seller, it must be established by clear
and decisive proof that the alleged representation was made In regard to
a material fact; that it was false; that the maker knew that it was -ot
true; that he made It in order to have it acted on by the other party;
and that it was so acted upon by the other party to his damage, and in
ignorance of its falsity and with a reasonable belief that it was true.

