OCTOBER TERAI, 1887.
Syllabus.

iNo legislation which took place after the 14th of July, 1872,
can affect the question arising under the act of 1883, as to his
service as an officer in the navy prior to the 14th of July,
1872. -Section 15 of the act of 1862 provided that the "annual pay of the several ranks and grades of officers of the
navy o4. the active list," thereinafter named, comprehending
the nine grades mentioned in the first section of the same act,
should be as thereinafter specified in the 15th section, and the
last provision was this: "MNidship m en shall receive five hundred
dollars."
It is impossible not to conclude that the claimant continued
to be, after the passage of the act of 1870, as he was prior to
its passage, an officer of the navy, on the active list, and serving as such an officer, by virtue of his having been appointed
a midshipman and continuing to be a student in the naval
academy, even though he might have been properly styled,
after the passage of the act of 1870, a cadet midshipman.
.The judgment of tk6 Court of Claims a rmd.

NUTT v. UMTED STATES.
APPBAI, FROM THE COURT OF CLAMS.
Ni'o. 1380. Submitted April 2,18$8. -Deeld edAri11, 1858.

Congress enacted August 7, 1882, 22 Stat. 739, ,, that the Quartermaster
General of the United States is hereby authorized to examine and adjust
the claims of Julia A. Nutt, widow and executrix of H ller iqutt, deceased,
late of iatchez, In the State of 31ississippi, growing ott of the occupation,and use by the United States Army during the late rebellion, of the

property of said Haler Nutt during is lifetime, br of his estate after
his decease, including live stock, goods, and moneys, taken and used by
the United States or the armies thereof; and he may consider the evidence heretofore taken on said claim, as far as applicable, before the
Commissioners of Claims, and such other evidence as may be adduced
before him on behalf of the legal representatives of Haller Nutt or on
behalf of the United States, and shall report the facts to Congress to be
considered with other claims reported by the Quartermaster General."
The Quartermaster General made the examination and reported td Con-

IIUTT v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.
gress the aggregate value of the property taken. Held, that this refer.
ence of the claim did not constitute" a submission to arbitration on the
part of Congress, and that the finding of the Quartermaster General was
neither an award, nor the equivalent of an account stated between
private individuals.
Some time after this report of the Quartermaster General, Congress appropriated sundry amounts to various persons named in the bill ai "an
allowance of certdiii claims reported-by the accounting officers of the
United States Treasury Department,"'"'the same being in full for, and
the receipt for the same to be taken and accepted In each case as a full
and final discharge of the several clais examined and allowed." Among
these amounts was an appropriation to Irs. Wutt of an amount much
less than that reported by the Quartermaster General, which reduced
amoilnt she accepted. Held, that this did not amount to an adoption by
Congress of the report of the Quartermaster General, and that there was
iko inference that the appropriation actually made was intended to be a
recognition of a larger amount as due.

Tim-case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Zaflin -. XAorria for appellant.
.Mr. Altomey G-,nva and

r. .eber JeT.
.tj

for appellee.

. JusTior Y Trnws delivered the opunon of the court.
An act of Congress, approved August 11,1882, for the relief of Julia A. Nutt, widow and executrix of Haller Nutt,
deceased, 22 Stat. 734, declared: "That the Quartermaster
General of the United States is hereby authprized and directed
to examine and adjust the claims of Julia A. Nutt, ividow
and executrix of Hailer liutt, ddceased, late of Natchez, ii
the State of Mississippi, growing out of the occupation End
.use by the United States An2iy-, during the late rebellion, of
the property of the said Hailer Nutt during his lifetime, or of
his estate after his decease, including live stock, goods; and
moneys taken and used by the United States or the armies
thereof; and'he may consider the evidence heretofore taken
on said claim, so far as applic~ble, before the Commissioners
of Claims, and such other legal evidence as may be adduced
b'efbre him in behalf of tQ6 legal representatives of Haller
Nutt, deceased, or in behalf of the United States, and shall!

OCTOBER TERMh,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

report the facts to Congress to be conside- " with other
claims reported by the Quartermaster General: P'ovidec,
That no part of said clauns, upon which said Comnissioners
of Claims have passed on the merits, shall be considered by
the Quartermaster General.
On December 22, 1882, the Quartermaster General, acting
under and pursuant to this act, reported to Congress, through
the 'Secretary of War, that he had examined the claims of
Mrs. Tulia A. Nutt, as widow and executrix, and the nature
and manner of his investigation, and the circumstances and
evidence relating to the same. He further reported as follows: "All the evidence considered, as well as the additional
information I have been able to gather, warrants me in

recommending that Julia A. Nutt be paid the following items,
which in my judgment, are suffidiently proved by the ewdence, viz.:" He then states various items of property with
their v~iu'ethe total amounting to $256,881.05. Tins report
was transmitted direct by the Secretary of War to Congress,

,but was not transmitted to or acted upon by the accounting
officers of the Treasury. On July 5, 1881, Congress passed
an act, 23 Stat. 552, "for the allowance .of certain clauns
reported by the accounting officers of the United States
Treasury Department, and for other purposes." This statute
enacts- "That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and he is
hereby, authorized and required to pay, out of any money
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to the several
persons in this act named, the several sums mentioned herein,
the same being in full for, and the receipt of the same to be
taken and accepted in each case as a full and final discharge
of the several claims examined and allowed by the proper
accounting - officers under the provisions of the act of July
fourth, eighteen hundred and sixty-four, since .January sixth,
eighteen hundred and eighty-three, namely:" Then follows
a list of the names of the persons, with the amount payable
to each, under the head of the several States of Tennessee,
Kentucky, West Virginia, Indiana, Pennsylvama, Ohio, faryland, Iissouri, District of Columbia, Colorado,.Illinois, Indian
Territory, Iowa, Kansas, and, finally, under the head of Mkis-

NUTT v. UITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.
ssstppi, as follovs: "To JAlia A. 1utt, widow and executrix
of Haller Nutt, deceased, of. Adafias County, the- sunii of
$35,556.1T."" This amount was paid to and accepted by the
claimant. The payment and receipt of this sum under the
-act of July 5, 188., however, it is contended, does not operate
as a full and final discharge of her .claim against thd 'government, because it is not within thie description contained in the
act of "clains examined and allowed-by the proper accounting officers under the provisions of the act. of July 4, 186C."
The right to recover the. full anugut; of the claun, after
deducting this payment, is rested gy counsel for the claimant
upon the act of August T, 1882, and is based upon the following propositions:
1st. The reference of the claun by Congress, with the consent of the claimant, to the Quartermaster General constituted,
under the special provisions of the act of reference, a submission to arbitration, and the Quartermatter Generars conclusion
or finding was an award pursuant to arbitration, upon which
suit can be maintained.
2d. If the reference to the Quartermaster General, and the
finding by him, do not condtitute an arbitration aid award,
they are at least the equivalent of an account stated between
private individuals.
3d. Even if of itself the finding of the Quartermaster General did not constitute an account stated, it became such by its
acceptance by Congress and the appellant.
There is nothing, however, in the language of the act of
August 2, 1882, to .3ustify the inference that the finding reported by the Quartermaster General is an award in pursuance
of an arbitration. Qn the contrary, the terms of the act distinctly negative that idea. There is no recital of a mutual submission by the parties of any 6ontroversy to an arbitrator.
The Quartermaster General was authorized and directed by
Congress to examine and adjust the claims in question, but not
for the purpose of settling and adjudging any controversy in
relation thereto between the United States and the claimant.
He was required to report the facts to Congress, not to publish.
an award to the parties; and the object for which his report

6514

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
OpInon of the Court.

was required was that the claim should be "considered with
other claims reported by the Quartermaster General." This
report evidently is purely for the information of Congress
itself, in order that it, being thus advised, might thereafter
deal with the claun as in its judgment should seem best.
On this point the language of this court in GordoA v. United
Stats,7 Wall. 188, 195, is applicable. It was there said: "The
various acts and-resolutions of Congress in this case emanated
from a desire to do justice and to obtain the proper information
as a basis of action, and were not intended to be stibmissions
to the arbitrament of the accounting officer.
They were
designed as instructions to the officer by which to adjust the
accounts, Congress reserving to itself the power to approve,
reject, or rescind, or to otherwise act in the premises as the
exigencies- of the case might require. In other words, these
references only.require the officer to act in a ministerial, not a
judicial, capacity."
To the same 'effect is the case of C'orenrsng v. Unitd
States, 94 U. S. 397, 398. It was there said: "The resolution
relied upon bi the appellant was wholly unilateral. It contained no stipulation of payment, express or implied. Congress, for its own reasons, simply directed an examination and
adjustment. It gave no promise, and came under no obligation
to the other party, and asked and received none from him. The
government and the claimant stood, and continued to stand,
wholly independent of each other. The government could at
any time before payment recall what it had done, and the
"laimant was at liberty up to the same period to refuse concurrence and assert a~ionde his legal rights, if any he had.
Prior to that time there could be no vested right and no commitment of either party, not subject to the exercise thereafter
of such discretion, affirmative or negative, as might be deemed
proper. The case presents the same legal aspect as if it were
between individuals. If a merchant should direct his clerk or
other agent to investigate and adjust the claim of a third party
upon a prescribed basis, and- the adjustment was made accordingly, can it be doubted that the merchant might thereafter,
because he had come to the conclusion that the claim -was

NUTT v. UITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

tainted viith fraud, or had been already fUlly paid, or for .any
other reason, or as a matter of choice, without assigning any
reason, decline to recognize what had been done as of any validity, and withdraw the authority under which thb proceeding
had been taken? The reason of the right would be that there
wasmo binding mutuality of assent, no consideration, and hence
no legal obligation resting upoi. either party."
'The same reasons dispose of the second proposition, and
show that the report of the Quartermaster General is no more
an account stated between the parties than it is an arbitration
and award. In order to constitute an account stated between
individuals, the statement of the account must be adopted by
one party and submitted as correct to the other. But here
Congress did not adopt the report of the Quartermaster General as its statement of what was due from the United States;
nor was the report submitted tb the claimant as a correct statement of indebtedness.
The acceptance by Congress and the appellant, referred to
in the third proposition, can only mean the appropriation made
by Congress in the act of July 5, 1881, but certainly that cannot be considered an adoption of the report of the Quartermaster General. It does not purport to be an appropriation
of a partial payment, as a credit upon a larger sum admitted
.to be due. Even though it be admitted -that the language of
the act in its first clause, declaring that the receipt of the.money
apprqriated in each case shall be taken as a full and final discharge of the several clauns, does not applyi yet there is no
inference that the appropriation actually made was intended
to be a recognition of a larger amount in fact due. The presumition is the other way; and the right conclusion is that
Congress appropriated all that it meant to acknowledge.
The judgment of the Court of Claima.dismissif- the petition
is therefore

.Aflrmed,

