UNION TRUST CO. v. MORRISON.
Syllabus.

UNION TRUST COP129rY w. MORRISON.
IPPzAL FR0E TIM CIHOUr

COURT. OF THE VM

STSTES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILI NOIS.
No. 64. Argued and submitted November 10, 188.-DecIded April 2,1888.
The entire rolling stock of a railway company in Illinois was covered, as
well as all Its other property, by a mortgage to trustees to secure an
issue of outstanding bonds. A judgment creditor of the company being
about to levy upon some of the rolling stock, the company filed a bill
in equity to restrain the levy and to set aside the judgment as obtained
by fraud, and an Injunction Issued restraining thecreditorfrom making
the levy, a bond -with surety being first filed, conditioned to pay the judgment debt If the injunction should be dissolved. The surety In that
bond took as security a chattel mortgage of four locomotiVes. Proceedings were then taken for the foreclosure of the mortgage, and a receiver
of all the property covered by the mortgage was appointed. Severalsuits
against the company were then pending in which appeal had been taken
and appeal bonds given, in order to protect the rolling stock. The receiver then suggested, making special mention of the above recited case,
that the sureties should be protected in the event of adverse decisions,
and the court authorized him in dis discretion to protect such sureties as
ought to be protected, by reason of the protection afforded to the property
and assets of the company, by the giving of their bonds; and an orderwas made that all persons having claims or liens against the property or
Its proceeds-should file Intervening petitions on or before a day nampid.
The surety In the injunction bond intervened within the time fixed, setting forth the facts, and that judgment had been recorded against him,
and asking to be protected from the consequences of signing thebond, as
the receiver had not been able to pay the debt of the judgment creditor.
The property covered by the mortgage was then sold, and purchased by
persons representing the bondholders, and it was referred to a Master to
report upon the intervening claims. The trustee and the receiver objected to the allowance of the claims of the surety on the injunction bond,
.on the ground that the execution in the original suit could not become a
llen upon the property as bgamst the mortgage bondholders, and on-the"
further ground that the surety had not paid the judgment debt. The
surety then paid the judgment debt, and fied a supplemental petition,
setting that fact forth and repeating thil origmnl application, but the
master rejected the.claim on the ground that the payment was not made
when he filed his original claim, nor until the time had expired for claims
to be presented. Helid:

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Statement of the Case.
(1) That the claim was presented in time; and that-although the surety
had not paid the,udgment when the claim -was presented, he Vas
entitled n equity to be protected from making the payment;
(2) That the purchasers at the-foreclosure sale, having beenrepresented in
the foreclosure proceedings by the trustees of the mortgage -were
bound by whatever bound the trustees,.including the orders of the
court respecting the paramount liens ofthe intervening caimnauts;
(3) That as, until the mortgage was enforced bv entry or judicial claim,
the personal propery of the company was subject to its disposal
in the ordinary course of iti business, and to be seized and taken
on execution for its debts, subject, however, to the contentions
of the mortgage thstees, the act of the surety onthe injunction bond had operated to keep the property together, and to
keep up the rallrtad as a i5ing concern;
(4) That the taking of the -chattel mortgage by him showed that he
intended to look to the property, and not alone -to the personal
security of the cdmpany;
(5) That the evidence referred to in the opinion showed that the re"
ceiver received moneys from"which he might have paid the Judgmeat debt;
(6) That the purchasers of the property accepted a deed, executed under
order of court, in which they recognized the right of the surety
as an Intervenor.
The court does not intend; in this case, to decide anything in conflidt with
Burnham v. B6wen, 111 U. S. 776, and only decides that this claim, being
based upon a bonaf.de effolrt by the .intervetior to preserve the fund from
spdliation after the mortgage debt was in arrear and the right t6 reduce
.to possession had accrued, the claimant can pursue earnings which had
been appropriated to the purchase of property that had been added to
the fund.
The action of the itervenor not being taken for the purpose of.being
subrogated to -the questionable rights df a judgment creditor, the court
expresses no opinion upon the rights, of an execution creditor, levying
on the personal property of a railroad company in Illinois, as against
those of a mortgagee.

Tim court stated the case as follows.
This case grows out of the foreclosure of a mortgage iven
by the Cairo and St. Lous Railroad Company on the 2d day
of October, 18-71, -to the Umon: Trust Company, to secure the
payment of two thousand five hundred bonds of one thousand
.dollars. each, with interest simi-annuilly. Morrison, theAppel-

lee, intervened in the. proceedings, by petition, clainiing a lien
on the-property mortgaged, by reason of having become liable
as suret:yon. an injunction bond given to obtain an injunction

UNION TRUST CO. v. MORRISON.
Statement of the Case.

to prevent an execution sale of a portion thereof. The couft
below by a decree dated May 4th, 1884, allowed his claim,
amounting to the sum of $1;352.19, with interest from May
20th, 1882. The purchasers at the foreclosure sale (wrho purchased on behalf of the bondholders), having transferred the
property to the St. Louis and Cairo Railroad Company (organized for that purpose), said company was allowed to become a
.partyto the proceedings for the purpose of appealingfrom the
decree; and did appeal from the same in connection -with the
Uniou Trust Company. The case is now before us on that
appealThe facts necessavy to be understood in the determination
of the case are as follows:
The Cairo and St. Louis Railroad Company was a corporation'of Illinois owning and operating a railroad in that State,
extending from Cairo to a point opposite St. Louis. The mortgage Teferred to purported to convey and embrace all the
property anI assets of the company, teal, persona4, and mied,
then Ield and owned, or thereafter to bd acquired, and the
tolls, incomes, rents, issues, and profits thereof; and it contained provisions -authorizmg the mortgage trustee (the Union,
Trust Company) to take possession of said property and assets
in.case of default, for a certain period of time, in the payment
of interest, or of the instalments of a sinking fund provided
for,; and gave said trustee power, on- such default, to declare
the principal due. The railroad company made default in the
payment of interest in October, 1873, and at every subsequent
period of paynient, and never paid qny instalments of the
sinking fund:
Meantime, the company was harassed by suits, and, amongst
others, one Henr7 Holbrook,. on the 26th of November, 1872,
recovered a judgment against it in the Circuit Court of St: Clair
County, Illinois, for the sum of .$9500, besides costs. Execution
was issued, but not levied. But- in October, 1814, an aI&
execution was issued, -and the sheriff of St. Claik County threatened to levy upon the rolling stock of the company, a great
part of which was in that county, opposite St. Louis. The
company, believing the judgment to have been fraudulently
VOL. cxXV-Z.8

:594=

.OCTOBER TERM1, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

and wrongfully obtained, filed a bill m equity in the St.. Clair
Circuit Court to enjoin Holbrook from proceeding to its collection. An injunction was granted accoidingly on the 30th of
December, 1874; but only upon the condition that the company should give an injunction bond, with sureties, for the
payment of judgment and costs, if the injunction should be
dissolved. Morrison, at the request of the company, executed
such bond as surety. In February, 1877, the bill for injunction
was dismissed, and in June, 1879, the decree of dismissal was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of Illinois, and the injunction
was definitively 4issolved. Thereupon Holbrook sued Mtorrison
on the injunction bond, and on the 30th of September, 1880,
recovered judgment against him for the sum of $13,965.
Prior to this time, in 1ovember, 1877, the Trust Company
declared the principal of the bonds due, and fied a bill in the
court below to have a receiver appointed and the mortgage
foreclosed. Henry W. Smithers was appointed receiver, with
power to operate the road and equip it and keep it m repair,
and to pay all amounts due and owing by the railroad company
.for labor or supplies that might have accrued in the operation
and maintenance of the railroad property within six months
immediately preceding. The receiver, ob vaklng possession of
the property, found a number of suits against the company
pending on appeal, and claims for protection on the part of
those who had become sureties on the appeal bonds; and on
the 29th of December, 1877, he presented a petition to the
court, asking its advice and instruction in regard to said bonds,
and whether he should protect the sureties in the event of
adverse decisions m any of the cases. He stated the fact that
such appeal bonds were given by some of the officers of said
railroad company, with others as sureties, in order to protect
the rolling stock or other personal property of said railroad
company from levy or sale under execution pending the deterrination of the appeals, in each 6f which cases execution on
the judgment or decree Was either levied on personal property
of said railroad company or the levy thereof threatened at the
time of taking the appeal and giving the bond. He mentioned
the Holbrook case in particular, which was then pending before

UNION TRUST CO. v. *MORRISON.

-595

Statement of the Case.,

the Supreme Court of Illinois on appeal, and called attention
to the injunction bond given in that case; and he expressed
his concurrence in the statement of the sureties generally, that
they had become such on the assurance of being protected,.and
that their action had been to the benefit of all parties interested in the property of the company, since, in.default of payment., it would have been sacrificed to meet the demands. The
court, on consideration, made a decree authorizing the receiver,
in his discretion, to prosecute or defend the appeals and cases,
according as the interests of the receivership should in his judg.ment be best promoted; and to protect such sureties as in his
judgment ought to be protected in equity and good conscience
by-reason of the protection afforded to the property and assets
of the company by means of -thegiving of such bonds. And,
for the purposes of this decree, the receiver was authorized to
use and pay out any moneys coming into his hands as such
receiver, over and above expenses for operation and repairs.
The receiver, for alleged lack of funds coming into his hands,
failed to protect any sureties except two, one Rosborough and
one ?ellet.
On the 16th of -May,1881, a decree was made in the foreclosure suit, ascertaning the amount due on the bonds and
.coupons to be $1,301,157.53, and directing a sale of the mortgaged premises to satisfy the same. The decree required all
personshaving claims or liens against the railroad and property,
or against the proceeds of the sale thereof, to file mtervening
petitions on or before the 1st day of Suly, 1881.
In accordance with this order, Mforrison, on the 30th day of
Tune, 1881, filed his intervening petition, setting up the facts
respecting his becoming surety on the injunction bond, the
preservation of the rolling stock by means theeof, the
proceedings -in the case, and the- proceedings against himself on the bond, resulting in the judgment rendered against
'him on September 30th, 1880. He also set out the copy
of'a mortgage on four locomotive engines given to him
by the railroad company in fune, 1875, by -way of indemnity against his liability on the injunction bond; which
mortgage was duly recorded in the clerk's office for St. Clair

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.,
Statement of the Case.

County, but was never enforced by him; he stating the fact to
be, that the said company and the,receiver had used the said
locomotive engines continuously since the'eecution of the said
mortgige, and the same were then m the possession of the
riceiver, and were to be sold at the sale of. the f'roperty vnder
the said decree of foreclosure. He further set out a copy of
the petition presented to the court by the receiver, asking for
instructions as before stated, and bringing to the notice of the
court the Holbrook judgment aid appeal and the injunction
-bond given in that case. He further stated that th6 receiver,
since his appointment, "hadnot been able, out of the earnings
of the railroad, to pay the juddment of Holbrook, and thus
protect ihe sureties on the irnjunction bond. His petition closed
with a p'rayer for a-decree that he should be fully protected
from all the consequences of signing the said bond, and from
the judgm6nt recovered against him and for further relief.
On the 5th of July,. 1881, an order was made declaring thatno claim presented or filed after the 1st of July, 1881, should
be received or filed; and that all claims not so filed on or before that date should be forever barred from any benefit under
the decree, or from the property, or the proceeds of its sale.
On the 14th of July, 1881, the railroad and other property
covered by the mortgage were duly sold in accordance with
.the decree of May 16th, and Josiah A.-Horsey and Charles J.
Canda, qn behalf of the bondholders, became the purchasers
for the sum of $4,000,000; which sale was, on the same day,
ratified by the court, and an order was made referring to, a
special master, Frank H. Jones, "all the intervening claims and
petitions filed in the cause, to take proof and report his conclusions of fact and law thereon for the consideration of the
court; and to give notice.to the parties of the time and place
of taking testimony.
On the 1st of August, 1881, an order was made referrihig it
to a master to examine and report the amount of receiver's
certificates remaining unpaid, and of all clauns agdinst -the
receivership, or railrbad assets in the -receivers possess:on, as
shown by "iftervening -petitions or clains filed in the cause
before July 1st, for labor, supplies or Qther claims; and -whether

UIION TRUST CO. v. MOIRISON.
Siatement of.the Case.

there was sufficient showing in the several cases to warrant
funds to be paid into court to cover the same: also the probable amount of costs and fees. The object of this order was to
ascertain how much money the purchasers should be required
to -payinto court, and how much of their bid might be paid in
bonds.
On the 19th of August, 1881f the Union Trust Company.and
the receiver filed a joint answer to Morrson's petition of intervention, in which all its material statements were admitted;
but whilst admitting that the sheriff of St. Clair County did
threaten to levy on the railroad company's -locomotives and

rolling stock they denied-that, as against the bondholders and
the Union Trust Company mortgage, the execution was a lien
on said locomotives and stock paramount to that of the Mortgage; they'also denied that the chattel mortgage alleged to
have been given by the railroad company upon certain locomotives for the purpose of securing the sureties on the injunction bond, could have a~iy dffect or create any lien on said
property paramount to that of the Union Trust Company
mortgage. The respondents admitted that the railroad company and the. receiver had continually used the engines and
property owned by the company in 1815; but whether they
were the same which were included in theralleged chattel mortgage, they could not say. They admitted that the receiver
had not paid, and had not been able out of the earnings of tho
road to pay, the judgment of Holbrook, and submitted to the
court, that if he had been i ble, he would not have had any
right or authority to pay the same. -They further alleged upon
information and belief, that the judgme-it r@mained wholly
unpaid, that neither Morrison nor the railroad'company had
paid it, and they submitted to the cofirt that there was no
liability on the part of the redeivership or of the property for
the payment of the judgment.
On the 22d of December, 1881, an order was made by the
court, by which, after reciting that Horsey and Canda had
paid to the comissioner the full amount of thei-r bid for the
railroad property and assets, namely, in cash, one hundred.
thousand dollars, and the residue in first mortgage bonds of

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

the railroad company, it was ordered and decreed that the
comnnssioner should execute a deed of conveyance of the said
property and assets to the said Horsey and Canda, to be held
subject to all taxes legally due, to the lien of all unpaid receiver's certificates, "and also subject to the lien of any and
all claims against the'said railroad property and assets which
are now before this court by intervening petitions, and which
shall be, upon final determination and adjudication, decreed to.
be paid as liens paramount to the indebtedness secured by said
mortgage or deed of trust."
On the 19th of January, 1882, the receiver was also directed
to make a conveyance -to the purchasers, in order to cover
certain real estate, rolling stock and other property which had
been acquired by him during his receivership, and to deliver
the possession of all such real estate and other property to the
purchasers or their grantees, when the commissioner's -deed
should be presented to hun and demand should be made. The
receiver made such conveyance on the 30th of January, 1882,
and on the 31st, Horsey and Canda conveyed all the property
to the St. Louis and Cairo Railroad Company, the appellants;
and on the following day, February 1st, 1882, the receiver
delivered the railroad and all its appurtenances to said company.
As the Union Trust Company and the receiver,. in their
answer to :M/orrison's intervening petition, raised the objection
that he had not paid the Holbrook judgment (though., of
course, he was bound to pay it), he filed a, supplemental petition on the 5th of June, 1882, stating that *hehad paid the
judgment on the 29th of May previous, amounting on that
day, for principal and interest, to the sum of $15,352.19, and
repeated his original application for relief. To this supplemental petition the 'Umon Trust Company and-the receiver
filed an answer by which they denied that Morrison had paid
the judgment; recited the previous ordels requiring claims to
be filed by the 1st of July, 1881, and barring those not so fled;
the sale'of the property, the conveyance thereof to Horsey and
Canda, and by them and the receiver to the new company,
and the delivery of the railroad property to said company;

UNION TRUST CO. v. MORRISON.
Argument for Appellants.

and averred that there were no proceeds of the sale in the
hands of 'the receiver out of which payment could be made to
Mforrison upon his claimOn the 19th of December, 1883, the special master, Frank
H. Jones, to whom, at the time of the sale of the railroad,
had been referred intervemng claims and petitions fled in
the cause, made a report, in which he set forth in detail all
the facts and circumstances in relation to the intervening
petition and claim, of Morrison, as they have been already
stated, and the evidence taken by him thereon. 'The only
point contested by the respondents was, the fact of payment
by Mforrison, and its effect under the previous orders of the
court. The evidence reported by the master, however, showed
that Morrison did actually pay the judgment at the time
stated in his supplemental petition, and the master so found.
The exception taken on this point by the respondents, based
on the fact that Miorrison, in order to'make the payment,
raised the money on his note, and that it did not appear that
he had paid his note, is too trivial for serious consideration.
The conclusion reached by the master was, that the-claim was
barred because Morrison had not actually paid Hlolbrook's
judgment when he filed his original petition, and did not pay
it until after the time had expired for claims to be presented,
namely, July 1st, 1881.
Morrison excepted to the report, anct on the 5th of :I[ay,
1884, the-court sustained the exception, and allowed the claim,
and decreed that Morrison had an equitable lien for the payinent thereof against the property sold under the decree of
foreclosure, and transferred 'to the St. Ionms and Cairo" Railroad Company, with leave to apply to the court for further
relief if the claim should not be paid before the first ' onday
of September then next. This is the decree from which the
appeal is taken to this court.
If.. Wiam Ritchie for appellants. X,. S. Cornizg Jdd,
.Afr. Eward . Esher, and .Mr. Edward B. udd were -with
hin on the brief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Appellants.

L The evidence does not show that appellee has ever paid
the Holbrook clain. Whatever relief appellee may claim, it
is plain that, uiless he has actually paid Holbrool, the court
should not have decreed any sum of money to be paid to himi
or any lien threfor to be created in his favor. Prior to such
payment a surety may, perhaps, compel the creditor to pursue
the principal ilebtor in court, but, until .payment in full, Mr.
Ntorrigon cannot be subrogated to the rights and remedies of
Holbrook, the judgment creditor. "IThe right of subrogation
.does not arise in favor of a surety until he has actually paid
the debt for which he is liable as surety; the right does not
accrue.to the surety upon his making a-partial payment, until
Where the surety is
the creditor is wholly satisfied. . .
allowed by bill in equity after the debt has become due to compel the creditor to enforce his demand agamst the principal
debtor,, yet he cannot be subrogated to the creditor's liens,
securities and equities for the debt until he has actually paid
it." Sheldon on Subrogation, Sec. 127. See also Gwell v.
.fc6Cowan, 53 11. 363; Da ' t v. Bates, 51 IIl. 439; Pn yZvanuza Bank v. Potim, 10 Watts, £48; Ryke v. Bostwick, 10
Alabama, -589; Shnyder v. Bazir, 33 N. J. Eq. (6 Stewart) '208;
Bonney v. Seely; 2 Wend. 481; Read v. .Arris,2 Xfyln. &
Or.'361, -Yempk ctc. .ailway v. Dow, 120 U. S. 287, 301 ;
.74acweM v. Jameson, 2 B. & Ald. 51; Taylor v. Higgins, 3
East, 169; .- xparte Sargent, 1 Glyn & Jameson, 183; . C.
affirmed, 2 Glyn & Jameson; 23; TayZor v. "flls, Cowper, 525;

Shinn v. Budd, 14 N. J. Eq. (1 Mcaarter) 231; Bank of the
UnitedStates v. Winston, 2 Brock.252; Cummings v. Hackeey,
8 Johns. 202; fynn v; Brooke, 5 Rawle, 106.
II. Aside from all considerations as to the time and mode
of its presentation in the court below, appellee is not, legally
or equitably, entitled to a lien upon this property in the hands
of the St. Louis and Cairo Railroad Company.
The purchasers at the foreclosure sale took the property
free from all equities which were subordinate to those of the
mortgage creditors. The sale cut off all clailns subgequent in
time to the execution of the mortgage and not superior in
equity thereto. The purchasers' title relates back, for this

-UNION TRUST CO. v.

IORRISON.

Argumeut for Appellauts.

purpose, to-the date of the mortgage, and (in the.absence of
provisions to the contrary, in the decree of sale) covers the
interests of all persons who are parties to the cause. 2 Jones
on M:ortgages, §§ 1653, 1654. Thi,is as true of railroad as
of other mortgages. This appellant, derivming its title under
the sale, took what it purchased subject to'no liens or claims
save such, if aiiy, as were paramount to the deed of trust
under winch the sale was made, XAorgan County v. Thoma",
76 Ill. 120; Sullivan v. Portland & .. nnebeo Railroad, 91
U. S. 806; .Xeimh v. Mriwaukee &co. ailroad,,2Wis. 414;
W7 ght v. .Miwaukee & St. .PauZ Ralcroad,25 Wis. 46. The

purchaser takes free even froni taxes aecruing against the
mortgagor under certain circumstances. Cooper v. Corbin,
105 Ill. 224. See also rouston v. Huntsville Bank,25 Ala.
250; Cain v. Owens, 22 Ala. '782; -Dozier v. Lewis, 27
Mississippi, 683, Tfinslow v. Otis, 5 Gray, 360; T'ubbs v.
Tirilliams, 9 Iredel, 1; -Pierson,v. Catlin, 18 Vt. '77; Ohio
Life Ins. & Tust Co. v.Tfrinn, 4 X-aryland Oh. 264.

What, then, were Holbrook's rights under Es judgment of
November, 18791 Being subsequent, it would ordinarily be
subordinate, to the mortgage, which covered all the debtor's
property then owned or thereafter acquired. Pennock v. Coe,
23 How. 117; Dunham v. Railway Co., 1 Wall. 9,54; Scott,
v. Clinton o c. Railroad,6 Bissell, 529; Central Tust Co. v.
Railroad Co., 30 Fed. Rep. 895; f.ammok v. Loan 6 Tz(st
Co., 105 U. S.77, 91.
Pznma fade the proceeds of the sale belong to the mortgage creditors. Fosdick v. iS'all, 99 U. S. 235. To overcome
this presumiption, there must be some "peculiar equity," some
"special circumstances," the 6xistence of which the claimant
himself must clearly and affirmatively establish to the court's
satisfaction, for the chancellor will always observe great caution in establishing such a preference as appellee here claims.

3filtenherge v. Logansport Railway, 106 U. S. 287; .Fosdick
v. S'hal, sutpra; Union Trust Co. v. Tllinois Afidia
Railway, 117 UJ. S.434, 458, 479; -Weyer v. Johnston, 53 Ala. 237,
349.; Blair v. Railway Co., 22,Fed. Rep. 475.
The appointment of a receiver, presumably holding and

OCTOBER TERMh, 1887..
Argument for Appellants.

conducting the business for the benefit of all the creditors,
should have no effect, of itself, to change the relations of the
creditors to each other or to the common debtor.
Ii the case at bar there is no allegation or proof as to thle
nature of the claim upon which Holbrook's original judgment
was rendered. This, it would seem, ought, of itself, to dispose
of appellee's claim.
The Holbrook judgment was rendered November 26, 1872.
On January 3, 1813, execution thereon was issued, but held"
until April 3, 1873, when it was returned by the sheriff without levy; by order of Holbrook's own attorneys. In the
October following the company defaulted in its interest on
the mortgage, making it possible at that time for the mortgagee to proceed to foreclosure. But Holbrook still withheld
execution until October 2(, 1874, (at which time the company,
of course, had defaulted in several more instalments of interest). At the latter date he took out an alias execution, but
still delayed to levy, when, on December 30, 1874, the company, by filing its injunction bond, with appellee and others
as sureties, prevented any further efforts to collect the judgment, if any were contemplated. The injunction suit- was
then allowed to drag its slow length along until at the June
term, 1879, of the Supreme Court, a final decision.was had.
Does this statement exhibit such "special circumstances" as
would raise any "peculiar equity" in appellee's favor?
If we are to indulge in conjecturej it is more than possible
that the mortgagee has actually suffered by the act of the
appellee in staying Holbrook's execution, or will suffer thereby, if appellee's claim herein is to'be allowed. Holbrook,
instead of levying on the rolling stock, might have made his
claim out of the income of the road while the mortgagor
remained in possession. This he could have done without
interference with any of the mortgagee's rights or interests.
]7alty
Gritma v. Telgrap&Co., -91 U. S. 603, 2ifsiss
Railwzy Co. v. (Aited States Express Co., 81 Ill. 537; see
also .Mitchelv. -Dewitt, 25 Texas (suppl.) 180; . C. '8 Am.
Dec. 561; Burns v. Runtingdom Bank, I Penn.395; Pot&r
v. l.at~hans, 1 W. &- S. 155, -Farmers'Bank v. &serkey, 12

UNION. TRUST CO. v. MORiISON.
Argument for Appellants.

Bush, 304:; Bishback v. Bodman, 14 -Bush, 11-7; J'ohnson v.
.for2vison, 5 B..Mon. 106; G.zs v. _PZlen, 6 Bush, 338, 350.
In fact, appellee is a vounteer. He was not a party to the
original contract between Holbrook and the Cairo and St.
Lous Railroad Company He became a party without Holbrook's consent, indeed, against the latter's interest, and for
the very purpose of delaying gr defeating him. Bank- v.
lTirnston, 2 Brock- 252; Ins. Co. v. Dorsey, 3 Maryland Ch.
334:; Swan v. Patterson,'t Maryland, 164:; Gadsden v. Brown,
1 Speer Eq. 87; S7inn v. Budd, -14N. J. Eq. 234.
As toward other creditors Mr. Morrison must ber deemed to
hav trusted to his principal and not to the property. Johnson v. Iforrzson, 5 B. Mon. 107; TiFggin8 v. .Dorr, 3 Sumner,
419; Bank v. Budy, 2.Bush, 329. As against one whose interests accrued prior to the execution of the injunction bond
or bail bond, the surety on such bond has so identified himself with the principal as not to be distinguished-from hm.
Burns v. Huntingdon Bank, above cited ; Parsons v. Briddock, 2 Vernon, 608 ; HWight v. Atorley, 11 Yes. 12; Smith v.
Anderson, 18 Maryland, 520; MfcCormsck v. Irwin, 35 Penn.
St. 111.
The practical effect of Mr. Morrison's act in becoming surety
was to prevent the Holbrook judgment from being satisfied at
all at a time when it might have been satisfied out of property
not covered by appellant's mortgage. To this extent appellee's.
act impaired appellant's security. Bank .of folkinZ"le v.
Rudy, 2 Bush, 326, 330, 331. If there was any property in
December, 184, not covered by ie mortgage, Holbrook held
a lien upon'it. The case, then, becomes one where a creditor
having a lien on two funds, releases one fund to the prejudice
of another creditor, having a lien only on the ]attep. Glass v.
Pullen, above cited.
By executing the injunction bond Mr. Morrison destroyed
the effect of the Holbrook judgment as a, lien on the personalty, and released the latter. launtz v. Gross, 16 Bradwell
(I. App.) 329.
Consequently, even if subrogated to :Eolbrook's rights, Morrison could claim no lien on the personalty. There never was

OCTOBER TERM, 1887,

Argument for Appellants.

a levy under the judgment, and as a lien the execution bad
become funtus oio before the receiver took possession.
Carrollv. The Skeamhoat Leathemr, :Newb. Adm. 432, Roberts
v. The Huntsville, 3 Woods, 386; The iadgz8, 31 Fed. Rep.
926.
Even without such bond Holbrook could not have seized the
company's realty under his judgment (such of it, at least,
as was covered by mortgage. Jones on Railroad Securities,
§§ 104-10e). 6 v. Canal Co., 24 How. 257; Hammock v.
Loan & Trust Co., above cited.
Appellee can, therefore, claim no "peculiar equity" agamst
the mortgagee as having saved the realty from seizure.
[Counsel then considered at length and sariatin cases in
winch debts accruing subsequently to the mortgage have been
awarded by the courts priority over the mortgage debt (citing
among others -Meyer v. -Thnstonjabove cited'; Union Trut
Co. v. .-/linois dland Railwa'y, 117 U. S. 434, 4 3; PosdiaZ
v. 0clsall, 99 U. S. 235, 252; Z7'ion Trust Co. v. Souther, 107
U. S. 591; Burnham v. Bowen, 111 U. S. -776; .Xiltenberger v.
Railway Co., 106 U. S. 286, 311; Galvegton 1ailroadv. Cowdrey, 11 Wall. 459; Dunham v. Railway Co., 1 Wall. 254;
Porterv. Bessemer Steel Co., 120 U. S. 619, 671; .Bidekooper
v. Locomotive lFork.8, 99 U. S. 258), and contended that the
appellee's claim did not come within any of the favored
classes and continued :]
The lower courts have uniformly held that a judgment
against the mortgagor, subsequent to the mortgage, but prior
to the receivership, must be held subject to 'the mortgage.
Central Trust Co. v. Railroad Co., 30 Fed. Rep. 897; iles v
Case, Receiver, 9 Bissell, 519; Duncan v. Railroad Co., 2
Woods, 542, .ewport Bridge Co. v. Dauglass, 12 Bush, 673;
Kely v. Railroad Co., 10 Bissell, 151.
:Not only is this claim not of the nature of a "current debt,"
but it comes within no reasonablelimit as to time.
The Holbrook judgment was rendered in 1872, and the receiver was not appointed until, ve years thereafter. While
the courts have never undertaren to designate any fixed, certain period of limitation for all cases, it is submitted that such

UNION TRUST CO. v. MORRISON.
Argument for Appellants.

a period as.fve years is without precedent. The usual period
fixed by order of court is commonly six months, seldom over
that. Scott v. Olinton dc. Railroad, 6 BTssell, 535 ; Turner
v. Inianapoi
i c. B.iwlway, 8 Bissell, 315; Blair v. _Bail,
'oad Co., 22 Fed. Rep. 474. Sudh was the period so fixed in
this case. Holbrook himself compelled the delay. We submitdthat five years exceeds all reasonable limits, and that the
claim is stale.
II. Appellee's claim was barred by the excludatory orders
entered previous to the foreclosure sale. The St. Louis and
Cairo Railroad Company, the principal appellant here was not
a party, sdve by fiction of lair, to the principa cause below;
it had no day in court and no opportunity to favor or oppose
any of the steps in the cause. It would, therefore, seem no
more than just that, m determining its rights herein, as liberal
a construction of the orders of the court should be made in its
favor as is consistent with the language in which such orders
are expressed. Yontz v. Horthuem Bank, 16 Wall. 196; X.Mle' v. ,S1ery, 2 Wall. 237, 250; .lami, v. .MfoaiZZ, Clarke
Oh. N. Y. 219. The doctrine of notice by lis pendens is one
strictiseamijuris. Cockri v.
aney, 2 Tenn. Ch. 49" see
also Br.igman v. Brighftan,I R. 112; Saf'p v. T]ightman,
103 Ill. 150.
Bearing in mind that this question is here raised on behalf
of a purhmier for value (the St. Louis and Cairo Railroad
Company), we submit, that to fix a purchaser, pending suit,
with notice of equities arising odt of .the suit, the pleadings,
etc., must be clear, explicit and direct as to the nature of the
claim. The fact that, by possibility, the claim may, upon a
-contingency not yet accrued, acquire an interest in the res, or
a lien upon the property in suit, is not enough to charge the
property with such a lien in the hands of such purchaser. See
also SiaZloros v. -Dixon, 7 TL. X. (Nf. S.) Ch. 183; Ca1e v.
Zowis, 8 Penn. SL. 493 ; x paite Barwis, 6 De G., Ifcw. &
G. 762; KyZle v. Bostick, above cited.
The question, then, would seem to turn upon this-: When
the St. Louis and Cairo RIlroad Company bought tis property, it bought with notice that appellee was so situated that

OCTOBER TERM,

1887

Argument for Appeflants.

!he was liable to pay a debt for which the common debtor was
primarily responsible; that at -the time of such purchase ap-pellee, in fact, had not paid such debt; but that, in case
appellee ever should thereafter pay, immediately he would be
entitled to recover the amount so paid from the common
debtor. Did all this amount to a notice that appellee ever
would pay? Under the facts as disclosed in the evidence,
could appellant even have felt any certainty (in case it had
inquired into the facts) that appellee ever could pay?
IV. Appellee should not have been permitted to file his
"supplemental" petition of June 5, 1882. Affecting materially, as this question does, the substantial rights and interests
of the parties, there is no reason why the ordinary rules of
pleading, devised for the better enforcement or protection of
the rights of suitors, should not be applied here to appellee,
though his Claim is presented by intervening petition merely.
Equity Rule 57 makes leave of court necessary to the filing
of a supplemental bill. No leave was had in this case.
This supplemental petition sets forth a fact which, though
essential to appellee's recovery, did not exist at the time of
his original petition. The supplemental petition prays that
the receiver be compelled to pay petitioner a certain sum of
nfoney-a measure of relief not possible under the original
petition. "We have found no authority that goes so far as
'to authorize a party, who has no cause of action at the time
of filing his original bill, to file a supplemental bill in order to
maintain his suit upon a cause of action that accrued after the
original bill was filed, even though it arose out of the same
transaction that was the subject of the original bill." _Pinch
v. .Anthony, 10 Allen, 410. See also Taughan,v. Yaugaun,
30 Ala. 3,9; ill v. Hill, 10 Ala. 52T.
The objection is not one of mere form, but the ground of it
is, that, to allow this subsequent act'of appellee set forth in
the supplemental petition to be availed of, as a part of appellee's original case, would give to such act a retroactive effect,
that -would operate as a practical fraud upon both the appellants
in this case. When the St. Louis and Cairo Railroad Company
bought this property and took possession, the matter, of this

UNION TRUST CO. v. MiIORRISON.
Opinion of the Court.

supplemental petition did not exist, and the purchasers.had no
means of knowing that it ever would exist. They bought
supposing, and having a clear right to suppose, that no claim
against the property, which had not been perfected an& filed
on or before July 1,1881, would be allowed. To charge them
with a burden accruing not only after July 1, 1881, but even
after they had bought and taken possession, can hardly be
designated otherwise than as a legal, if not a moral, f+aud.
When the question of Zi ypem& w arises upon an "amended
bill, it is regarded as an original bill for that purpose," and, as
concerns rights thereby affected, the bill must be taken as filed
only when the amendment was made. .lleille v. BSemrny, 2
Wall. 237; Grifflts v. 6Wffth8, .1 Hoffman Oh. 153; S. 0.on
appeal, 9 Paige,315.
We submit that, whether we consider the nature of the claim
itself or the time and mode of its presentation to the court below, no ground in law or equity can be -found for the support
of the decree in appellee's favor.
Mr&. CzrZoe IF. Thomas and X.M Gustav -oehner for appellee submitted on their brief.
MR.JusTrcn BRALL-, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The plea that the claim was not presented in time we -think
-is
wholly untenable. It was brought to the notice of the court
by the receiver himself a few days after his appointment. The
case, however, was still pending in the state court on appeal,
and it was yet uncertain what would be the result. The injunction was not definitely dissolved until June, 1879. The
liability of Morrison on his bond was still unadjudicated, and
not in a condition to be presented by him as a fixed and deterinmate claigi against the railroad company and its property.
Suit was then brought against him, and judgment rendered on
the 30th of September, 1880. The foreclosure proceedings
-were still pending. In May, 1881, the final decree of foreclosure of the railroad property was made, and the time for

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

presenting claims wts fixed, to expire on the 1st of Tuly, 1881.
Morrison presented" Ins claim by filing his intervening petition
within that time. He stated his entire case. He had not paid
the judgment against him, it is true; but, in equity, (if he.had
any equity at all), he ought to have been protected from mak:ing that payment. It ought to have been made by-the recaiver
out of the-proper, which came' into his hands. The reason
he (the receiver) did not pay it seems to have -been want of

pecuniary funds. As will .be seen, he had disposed of these
funds in other.ways. But surely, if Morrison had an-equitable
right to be protected, he ought not to be shut out from all
remedy, because he did not do what ought to have been: done
by the receiver himself, or -by the patties whom the receiver
represented. We think that the court below was perfectly
3ustified in sustaining the exception to the master's report so
far as it was based on the idea that Morrison's claim was barred
by reason of his not actually paying the Holbrook judgment
until after the period of liuitation fixed by the court for the
presentation of claims. The claim was presented in time, and,
when presented, was ripe for the protection asked for by the
petitioner. If he was afterwards compelled to make the payment himself, which those who received the railroad property
ought to have made, it only converted his claim for protection into a claim for indemnity, and made his equity all the
stronger.
The plea of want of notice on the part of the purchasers
of the railroad is .equally groundless. The purchasers were
really the bondholders themselves. They were represented
in the foreclosure suit by the Union Trust Company. They
purchased expressly subject to the lien of .any and all claims
against the railroad property and assets which were then
before the court by intervening petition, and which should be,
upon final determination and adjudication, decreed to be paid
as paramount liens. Morrison's claim was in thl! category.
It was then'before the court by his intervening petition. The
purchasers were bound to take notice of it. They had notice
of it. The pretence of want of notice is entirely -without
founnation.

UNION TRUST CO. v. MrORRISON.
Opinion of the Cort

The only serious ground of defence to the petition is the
legal question, -whether a claim arising under the circum.
stances, and at the time, in which this did,.has an equity to
be paid- out of the property of the railroad company sold
under the mortgage and conveyed to the present company.
The ground of the .claini.s, that a portion of the property
covered by the mortgage, being in peril of abstraction and
loss, was reicued and saved to.the mortgage by the act of the
petitioner. It is denied that the property was in any peril,
because, as contended by therespondents, it could not have
been taken in execution by reason of the prior lien of the
mortgage. But it must be conceded that, until-the mortgage
was enforced by entry'or jndicial claim, the personal property
of the railroad company was subject to its disposal in the
ordinary course of business, and, as such, was liable to be
seized and taken on exeoution for its d&bts. This is not only
common law, but the positive law of Illinois. By the constitution of 1970 (art. XI, § 10), it is declared that, "the rolling
stock, and other movable property belonging to any railroad
company or corporation in this State, shall be considered personal property, and shall be liable to execution and sale in the
Even
same manner as the personal property of individuals'
if it would have been subject to the mortgage, when taken on
execution, nevertheless it could have been taken, and this
would necessary-have disturbed, and perhaps interrupted, the
operations of the railroad, by separating the property seized
from the corpus of the estate. The trustees of the mortgage
might have prevented such a catastrophe, it is true, by filing
a bill of foreclosure, and for an injunction .and receiver; but
they did not choose to take this course until nearly three

years afterwards: on the contrary, they allowed the railroad
company to continue to use the property, and to take care of
it for them, and stood by and saw Mtorrison, (who had no
interest in the matter,) put his hands into the fire and rescue
the rolling stock of which they were to receive the benefit, both directly, by receiviftg the property itself without contest
or controversy, and indirectly, by keeping up the railroad as
a going concern. Tl[orrson's money, or the fruits of it, has
VOL. CXX--39

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

gone mtb their pockets. And, in this regard, we make no
distinction between the mortgagees, the bondholders whom
they represented, the nominal purchasers Horsey and Canda,
or the present company. They were all one and the same in
interest. If the property became justly affected by the equity
of the petitioner's claim, it remains so affected in the h6nds ot
the present company.
A circumstance to which some weight is due is the chattel
mortgage given by the railroad company to MNorrison on the
four locomotives therein described, to secure him and his
co-sireties against the payment of Holbrook's judgment. It
shows that they intended to look to the property and not
alone to the personal security of the company. He did not
attempt to enforce this mortgage, it is true, and did not have
it renewed, but followed out the original idea of preserving
the stock entire, and keeping up the property as a going concern. Instead of giving this mortgage, the company might,
with perfect propriety, have placed funds in the hands of the
sureties to enable them to protect themselves, and the transaction would not have been questioned. By not doing so,
the receipts and revenues which would have been required for
this purpose, went, in the end, -to the benefit of the bondholders. It enabled the company to continue its operations
for the time being; and resulted in supplying the receiver with
the means of .purchasing outside property, which, by order of
the court, he conveyed to the purchasers of the road, or their
assignees.
The main pretence for iAot protecting Morrison and his cosureties was that the receiver never had receipts in his hands
with which he could have protected them; and this assertion
seems to have been credited by the mtervenor. But this pretence cannot be true. It is refuted by the record itself. The
order of January 19th, 1882, recites that the deed from the
special commissioner who sold the railroad under the decree
of foreclosure, did not fully cover and convey the legal title to
certain real estate acquired'b and conveyed to Smithers as
receiver, purchased by him under authority of the court, and
he was, therefore, ordered to convey all such property, as well

UNION TRUST CO. v. MORRISON.
Opinion of the Court.

as all personal property and rolling stock purchased by him
whilst receiver, to the purchasers of the railroad, or their
assigns. This shows that he had receipts -with which he purchased new property, real estate and rolling stock, whico
went to increase the corpus of the fund of which the bondholders received the benefit.
The intervenor's equity is a. very strong one. His case
clearly came within the scope and intent- of the decree made
February 4th, 18T8, which authorized the receiver to protect
those sureties on appeal and injunction bonds, who ought to
be protected in equity and gooil conscience by reason of the
protection afforded the property and assets of the railroad
company through or by means of the giving of such bonds.
The complainants (the mortgagees) raised no objection to that
decree. Until after the sale of the Tailroad, and until the
trust came to be wound up, the only plea was that the receiver
had not realized sufficient funds from the current receipts of
the road to enable him to protect the intervenor. This plea,
(if a good one,) as we have seen, is not sustaihed by the facts.
He actually expended moneys in the purchase of new property, real estate and rolling stock, and paid over to the purchasers everything that came into his hands before and after
the sale, not used for expenses. It is not shown what these
purchases and payments amounted to; but they were probably considerable, and the complainants and receiver could
easily have shown that they were insufficient for the indemnification of the intervenor, if such had been the fact. The proof
was in their hands, and not in his.
It is further to be borne in innnd thatthe purchasers of the
railroad accepted a deed therefor from the cmnnmssioner
under an order of the. court expressly declaring that they
should hold the property subject to all taxes legally due, to
the lien of all unpaid receiver's certificates; and also subject
to the lien of any and all claims against the railrbad property
then before the court by intervening petitions, which should be,
upon final determination and adjudication, decreed to be paid
as liens paramount to the indebitedness secured by the mortgage. The intervenor's claim is precisely in that category.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.

Opinion of the Court.

The case is a special one; and iWview of the discretion
which the court of first instance is obged to exercise in mat*-ters of this character, taking all the circumstances into con•sideration, ye cannot say that equitable relief was unduly
extended in allowing the intervenor's claim. An examination
of the cases bewaring upon the subject do fofkdad to a contrary
See Fosdick v. Sohala, 99 U. S. 235; I.atnconclusion.
berger v. ogansl7ort Bailroad, 106 U. S; 286; Vnon Tpwt v.
-Souther,107 U. S. 591; Burnham v. Bowen, 1.1 U. S. 776 ;
p
Tidon Trust v. -N. Midland,11T U. S. 484; Dow v. 3
&o. _?aiload, 124 U. S. 652 ;. age v. 2[emphs &c. -BRatoad,
ante, 361. The appellants place much reliance on the case of
Bunham v Bowen, where.it was held-that debts for operating
expenses are privileged debts, entitled to be paid out of current
income; and that if such income is diverted by the mortgage
trustees or the receiver for the improvement of the property,
such debts will be decreed to be paid out of the mortgage
fund. But it was added by way of caution: "We do not now
or Ruidehold, any more than we did in _osdic, v. ,h'caZ,
koer v. locomotive Forks, that the income of a railroad in
the hands of a receiver, for the benefit of mortgage creditors
who have a liei upon it under their mortgage, can be taken
away from them and used to pay the general creditors of the
road. All we then decided, and all -*enow decide is, that, if
current earnings are used for the benefit of mortgage creditors
before current expenses are paid, the mortgage security is
chargeable in equity with the restoration of the fund whichlhas
been thus improperly applied to their use." It is this remark on
which the appellants rely. t"is not our intention, however, to
decide anything in the present case in conflict with it. The clha
in that case was for operating expenses only, and the rule laid
down had special reference to them. The present claim is of
a -different character, based upon a bona JFt effort made by
the intervenor -to preserve the fund itself from waste and
spoliation after the mortgage was in arrears and the right to
reduce it to possession had accrued. But even here, as we
have seen, if the claimant could pursue only the earnings, it is
shown that they have been appropriated'to the purchase of
property which has been added to the fund.

UNION TRUST CO. v. MiORRISON.
Opinion of the Court.

,uch. of the argument of the appellants is based .on the
hypothesis that the claim of the intervenor was a claim to be
subrogated to the lien of the Holbrook judgment; and it is
argued that this lien was subordinate to that of the mortgage
held by the complainants. We do not understand that the
clain was presented in any such view. The Holbrook -udgment and execution could have greatly deranged the- busmes%
of the company as a going concern. The rolling stock could.
have been seized and removed. Whether such seizure could,
or could not, have been prevented by the mortgagees is a different question. It would, at all events, have required legal
proceedings, and probably serious litigation; and this the
mortgagees did not see fit to undertake. To save the property
from being taken, to prevent the catastrophe which its taking
would have caused, and the serious questions which would
have arisen had it actually been sold, the intervenor gave his
bond to obtain an injunction. It was not done for the purpose of being subrogated to the questionable rights of Holbrook under Ins judgment; but to prevent the certain injury to
the property itself, which the attempted enforcement of those
rights would have involved. It is unnecessary, therefore, to
discuss the rights of an execution creditor, levying on °tlle personal property of a railroad company n Illinois, as against
those of a mortgagee. We express no opimon upon that subject. The claim was presented upon the equities arising in
favor of the intervenor for taking the actibn he did, and thus
securing the reults which followed, and. upon the other circumstances of the entire case taken together.; and it was upon
theselgrounds that the claim was allowed by the court below.
" Imie decree of thze Circuit Court is afirmed.

