OCTOBER TERM, 1887
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. STRONqG.
APPEAL FROM THfE COURT OF CLAIM.
No. 1351.

Submitted April 2,188.-Decided April 16,1838.

Service, by order of the Secretary of the Navy, by an officer in the Navy'as
executive officer on a recruiting ship at anchor m port at a navy yard
and not in commission for sea service, entitles him to receive pay for
sea service. United States v. Siinzonds, 120 U. S. 46, affirmed and applied.

Tn case is stated in the opinion of the court.

-Jfi. Attorney General, .M~. Assistan.t Attorney General
t"owar , and .P Dewees for appellant.
M.i

Zinden Rent for appellee.

Mmi. JUSTI E MA[TTriWs delivered the opinion of the cour.

The claimant, Edward T. Strong, being a Lieutenant Commander in the lnited States Nqavy, by an order, of the Secretary of the N'avy of February 4, 1886, was directed to report
for duty as executive officer on board the United States receiving shill Waba~h at Boston, Mfassachusetts. The order
designated his employment as "shore duty." In compliance
with the order'he reported for such duty on board the ship on
February 20, 1886, and continued from that time to discharge
the required duties on board such ship until May 11, 1886,
when he was relieved from duty thereon. During that period
he was allowed and paid only as for shore duty. - He claimed

"to be entitled to receive.pay for -sea.service. Xudgment was
rendered in his favor bv the Court. ol Claims for $111.20 being
the difference.between shore pay and sea pay. Fkom this
judgment the United States prosecutes the present appeal.
From the findings -of facts it appears that the Wabash s a
receiving ship built of wood, about thirty-one years old, stationed at the navy yard in Boston for over twelve years past.
The ve gel is and has been used as a naval recruiting station

UNITED STATES v. STRONG.
Opimon of the Court.

whilst at the Boston lNavy Yard. There is a root built over.
the deck. The ship is connected and communicates with shore
by a rope. There is a large boat or scow that plies between
the ship and the wharf by means of a crank and connected
with the rope. Steam is used only for heating purposes and
pumps.. All the ancbors have never been taken up at the
same time. Row boats were also used in going to aid from
the ship. The Wabash has remained in the same place in
which she was anchored'since October 28, 1875, and has been
and was, during the time of service thereon by the claimant,
under the orders and direction of the Secretary of the lNavy.
During the period of the claimant's service thereon she was
not in a safe condition for cruising. She is a sailing and steam
vessel; and had on board sails, spars, and tackle; she was
capable of being taken out to sea under steam, her machinery
and boilers being sufficient for that purpose; she could. have
been, taken out to sea, under sail, but in the condition of her
boilers and machinery and her sailing apparatus, without repairs, it would not have been,.-in either case, advisable or safe.
The duties of executive officer of the vessel performed by the
claimant were similar to those of executive officers on cruising
ships. In addition to those he had other duties, which -were
more exacting and arduous than those on board cruising ships.
Durmg the time he was attached to the vessel the claimant
was required to have his quarters on board, and was obliged
to wear his miifform, to mess there, and was not permitted by
the rules of the service to live with Is family The Wabash,
during the time of the. claimant's service thereon, was not in
what was technically known as- a commission for sea service.
Duty on board a receiving ship since 1843, has not been regarded as sea service by the Navy Department. An order of
the Department issued that year declared that "'theTeceiving
ships at the several stations are not to be considered vessels in
commission for sea service, except, as may sometimes be the
case, while g6ing from one port to another"
In the case of I'We United States v. Symonds, 120 U. S. 46,
50, it was decided : "That the sea pay given in .paragraph
1556 m:y. be earned by services performed under the orders of
vOL.

cxxv-42

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Syllabus.

the 1avy Department in a vessel employed, with authority of
law, in actiVe service in bays, inlet%roadsteads, or other arms
of the sea, under the general restrictions, regulations and requirements that are incident or peculiar to service on the high:
sea. It is of no consequence in this case that the New Hampshire was not, during the period in question in such condition
that she could be safely taken out to sea beyond the main land.
She was a training ship, anchored in Narragansett Bay during
the whole time covered by the claim of appellee, and was subject to such regulations as would have been enforced had she
been put in order and used for purposes of cruising, or as a
practice ship at sea. Within the meaning of the law, Symonds,
when performing his duties as executive offlcer of the 1New
Hampshire, was-at I sea?"
We are unable to find any ground of distinction between
the present case and that of Symonds. It results that the
claimant was entitled by law to pay for sea service. Thejudgment of the Court of Claims is accordingly

ST. LOUIS, ALTON AND TERRE HAUTE RAILROAD
OOM ATY v. OLEVEVLA.ND, COLuMBUS, CINCINITI,
AND INDIA- AJOLIS RAILWAY COf-

FANY.

APPEAL IMOM TEE CIEOUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF flKDIAIA.
To. 192. Argued Mareb 22, 1838.-Decided April 16, Ie.

The rule charging operating expenses of a railroad, debts due from It to
connecting lines growing out of an interchange bf business, debts due
for the occupation of leased lines, and, generally, debts created under
special circumstances which make an equity in favor of the unsecured
debtor, upon the gross income of the road before a fund arises fofthe
payment of mortgage iaterqst, is not applicable to a fund realized from
a sale of the road under foreclosure of a mortgage; and, as a general
rule, unsecured debts of the company cannot, in such case, take prece-

