OCTOBER TERM1, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

The language is, "said note is given me for the purchase of
379.- shares of stock now held by me and to be delivered, upon
payment of his note, to said Davison." That such language
amounts to conditional sale, or to an agreement for a sale on
performance of the condition, see Benjamin on Sales, Book 11,
Chap. .HI, Rule III, (p. 252, second ed.,) and the cases there
collected.
If this is a correct view of the case, it is plain that the only
equitable remedy applicable to it is a bill for relief from the
condition, or for specific performance. Both of these remedies,
as we have seen, have been lost by the laches of the complainant.

The decree of the Circuit Court i8 afflrmed.

WEIR- v. :ORDENr.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

OcIUIT

THE NORTHERN

COUR T

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

Ho. 182. Argued February 13, 1858.-DecIded

earch 19, 1888.

The second claim in reissued letters-patent No. 8914, dated September
30, 1879, to Frederil-S W Weir, for an improvement in railroad frogs,
(the original patent being No. 215,548,'dated lay 20, 1879,) whether construed by itself, or with reference to the state of the art at the time of
the alleged invention, is a claim for a combination of parts, viz.. (1)
two centre rails B B' 3oined to form the V-shaped point; (2) the outside
diverging or wng rails; (3) the channel irons of a U shape uniting the
centre rails together,-and also to the outside or wing rails, so that the
whole shall constitute a frog with the characteristics imparted by the
features of this combination, and no invention was required to divide
the U iron, shown in patent No. 173,801 issued to WiIliam 3. Mordon,
February 22, 1876, roto two, so as to connect the centre rails with the
outer rail.

Tins was a bill in equity to restrain the alleged infringement of' reissued letters-patent No. 8914, dated September 30,
1879, for an improvement in railroad frogs-, the original patent,
No. 215,548, dated May 20, 1879, having been issued on an

WEIR v. MORDEN.
Statement of the Case.

application filed February 4, 1879, to Frederick C.Weir, the
complainant. In his specificatibn the patentee described the
invention generally as follows
ccify invention relates to the class of frogs made by the
bending of the overlapping ends of the rails themselves, and
the junction of the same with the central rail constituting the
point by rivets or belts through separating pieces; and my
invention consists, first, in such a formation and connection of
the two rails which make up the angular point as that one of
the rails extends unbroken and uncut directly across the path
of the other, and in itself makes a solid end to the point with
a full-width flange, which is overlapped by the flange of the
other rail, and thus a flange of double thickness is afforded at
a point where strength is particularly needed, and the cutting
away of the flanges (as is the usual custom) is avoided entirely,
second, in an improved manner of connecting the two rails of
the point together and to channel-iron pieces, to which the
outer rails are connected.
"One of the objects of this invention is to furnish a firm
lateral support upon each side of the V-shaped rails by means
of channel irons, which at the same time unite and hold the
centre rails forming the V to the wing rails firmly, uniting
and holding all the parts in their proper relative position."
The drawings accompanying the specification were as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

.Ng.Z.
.B,

Fig.5.

X
P

cr

WEIR -o. M ORDEN-.
Statement of the Case.

The specification explained the drawings as follows:
"In the accompanying drawings Fig. 4 is a plan of -a
frog embodying my improvements. Fig. 5 is a cross-section
of the same on line x w. Fig. 3 is a plan of the under side of
the fro, showing the continuations of the main point rail
with a full-width flange throughout, also showing the riveted
extension of the flanges of the channel irons beyond the
points.
"It will not be .necessary to describe the devices shown in
Figs. I and 2, as they are fully described in division B of this
reissue.
1A A' are the outer or wing rails of the frog, and B B' are
the two rails which compose the acute angle or point.
"In place of cutting away both the flanges, of the rails B B,
so as to make a joint between the two rails midway between
the lines of the angle of the frog, as is common now, and, I
may say, usually practised, I continue the flange of the rail 3,
of full width, intact clear along the junction of the two rails
to the point where it strikes the flange of the outer rail, as
shown in Fig. 3, which is almost immediately under the point
X' of the frog, and I swage up the flange P1 of rail B' on one
side, s shown in Figs. 5 and 3, so that it lies over the flange
of rail B, this flange of rail B' being cut away angularly
on the edge to properly meet the line of the web b of the
rail B.
"I connect the point rails B B' together by yivets, 0, which,
while they secure these rails together, also secure pieces of
channel iron, D, to said point rails, the channel iron making
the separating medium between the point rails B B' and wing
rails A A' and giving.a means for attaching said wing'rails.
"The adjacent flanges of the channel irons of the -point
may be extended beyond the point and riveted, as shown in
Fig. 3.
"With channel iron I attach the wing rails in the manner
shown in Fig. 5, the outer flanges of the iron being notched
at d for the passage, before the outer rails are attached, of the
long rivets 0, the bolts E, which connect the outer rails, being
placed between the notches d."

OCTOBE R TERML,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

The claims were as follows:
"1. A frog having one of its point rails extending with a
full-width flange along the junction of 'the two rails, and the
flange of the other point rail overlying the flange of the firstmentioned one, substantially as and for the purpose specified.
"2. A frog composed substantially of the two centre rails
BB' joined to form the V-shaped point, united to outside
diverging or wing rails by means of two channel or U irons,
D D, one wing of which channel or U iron is shaped to fit the
web of the abutting rails, combined to form the point of the
frog, and upon the other side fitting the web of the wing or
diverging rail, respectively, and secured by bolts or rivets
passing through the webs of the rails and the sides of the
channel bars, substantially as shown.
"3. In combination with 'the point rails B B1, fitted to each
other as described, the channel pieces D extending and bolted
or riveted together beyond the point of the frog and connecting rivets 0, which extend entirely through The two point
rails and the channel pieces, substantially as and for the purpose specified."
The only claim involved in this suit was the second, no
infringement being alleged of either the first or third. Separate answers-were filed by the defendants, respectively, which
were, however, in substance the same. The defences were that
the reissued letters-patent were null and void, as not being for
the same invention as set forth and .described in the original
letters-patent ; that the defendants did. not.infringe; and that
the alleged invention of the complainant was not a patentable
novelty, in view of the state of the art at the time of the
alleged invention, as shown in certain prior letters-patent
specifically meutioned. The answer of, Morden, adopted by
the others, also set out the following"And this defendant, further answering, says, on information and belief, that he is the original and first inventor of a
U-shaped plate in combination or connection with a railroad
frog, and that sa;d invention was secured to him by said
letters-patent of the United States No. 173,804 and No. 205,496, and that by virtue of said letters-patent he has the sole

WEIR *v. MORDEN.
Opimon of the Court.

and exclusive right to said U shape in a railroad frog, and
that, while the complainant is engaged in the manufacture
and sale-of railroad frogs, he uses a V-shaped plate so secured
to your defendant, as before stated, and m said manufacture
and sale has copied from defendant's invention "insubstantial
and material parts secured to defendant by his letters-patent
aforesaid and m infringement of the same, and this defendant, in this connection, would state that prior to the filing of
complainant's bill he, the defendant, filed a bill in this honorable court against said "complainant for infringement of his
said letters-patent No. 173,804 and said wrongful acts, and
praying relief on account of said wrongful acts by the complainant, which said bill is now pending against him in this
court. Some days after this defendant filed his bill as aforesaid, the said complainant flied his bill, seeking thereby, as
defendant is advised and states, on information and belief, to
lharass and annoy defendant in his said suit and to delay
accounting to defendant for said wrongful acts of him, the
said complainant."
On final hearing a decree wds rendered dismissing the bill
for want of equity, to reverse which the present appeal was
taken.
.Xr. B E. Mood (with whom was Mer,'. Edward Boyd on
the brief) for appellant.
./L"

Clia'ence A. Seward fled a brief for appellant.

Z Ofied for appellees.
.A1#. Chak~arl21
] ATTi-Ws, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

M-n.

JUSTIE.

The question of infringement depends upon the proper
construction of the second claim. The proof shows that the
defendants did mot infringe either the first or the third. They
did not form and connect the two rails, making up the angular
point as a part of the frog, so that one of the rails would
extend unbroken and uncut directly across the path of the

10.1

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opimon of the Court.

other, and in itself make a solid end to the point with a full-width flange overlapped by the flange of the other rail, thus
affording a double thickness and avoiding the cutting away
of the flanges, as was customary. If there is an infringement,
it consists in the use of the channel irons of a U shape, uniting
the two centre rails, forming the V-shaped point of the frog,
to each other, and the two thus united to the two diverging
rails on each side by means of bolts or rivets passing through
the webs of the rails and the sides of the channel bars. The
question was disposed of by the Oircuit Court m favor of the
defendants, as follows:
"The question of fact as to infringement depends upon
whether the 'two centre rails B B' 3oined together to form
the V-shaped point,' mentioned in the second claim, necessarily mean the two centre rails which. are described in the
specification, or does it mean any centre rails joined together
in any manner to form a V-shaped point? The answer to
this question seems to me to be found in the complainant's
own specification. He says: 'My invention consists, first, in
such a, formation and connection of -the two rails which make
up the angular point as that one of the rails extends unbroken
and uncut directly across the path of the other, and in itself
makes a solid end to the point with a full-width flange, -which
is overlapped by the flange of the other rail, and thus a flange
of double thickness is afforded at a point where strength is
particularly needed, and the cutting away of the flanges (as
is the usual custom) is avoided entirely.'
"In his description of the drawings he says:
"' AL A' are the outer or wing rails of the frog, and B B
are the two rails which compose tile acute angle or point.'
"1And in Ins description of the mode of constructing his
device he says"CIn place of cutting away both the flanges of the rails
B B', so a. to make a joint between the two rails midway
between the lines of the angle of the frog, as is common now
and, I may say, usually practised, I continue the flange of the
rail B, of full width, intact clear along the junction of the two
rails to the point where it strikes the flange of the outer rail,

WEIR v. MORDEN.
Opinion of the Court.

as shown in Fig. 3, which Is almost immediately under the
point X' of the frog, and I swage up the flange b1 of rail B' on
one side, as shown in Figs. 5 and 3, so that it lies over the
flange of rail B, this flange of rail B' being cut away angularly
on the edge to properly meet the line of the web b of the
rail B.'
"It will thus be seen that minute directions are given as to
the construction of the two centre rails B and B' to form a
V-zhaped point, and I am of opinion that the two centre rails
B and B', described in the second claim, are the rails constructed and joined according to the description given in the
patent. The language of the claim is, 'the two centre rails
B B' joined to form the V-shaped point,' not any two centre
rails joined to form a V-shaped point. The V-shaped point
made by extending one rail unbroken and uncut directly
across the path of the other, and thereby making a solid end
to the point, and with the flange of the rail B' swaged up so
as to lie upon or overlap the flange of the rail B, seems to me
to be an essential element of what complainant supposed he
had invented, and, therefore, the two centre rails B B' mentioned in the second claim refer to and mean the two centre
rails which he has particularly described in his specification.
The proof in the case wholly fails to show that the defendant
forms the V-shaped point in his frog in the manner that complainant forms his point."
The construction of the second claim contended for by the
appellant is, that it embodies separately and distinctly that
part of the invention which, in the general descriptionui the
preliminary part of the specifications, is stated to be "an
improved manner of connecting the two rails of the point
together and to channel-iron pieces, to which the outer rails
are connected," without reference to the manner in which the
two rails of the point are formed, so as to constitute the first
part of the invention. If this construction be admitted, the
second claim would cover every case of two centre rails joined
to form the V-shaped point, which were united to outside
diverging or wving rails by means of channel irons of a l
shape, bolted or riveted, as therein described, without reference

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

to the manner in which the two centre rails were combined to
make the angular point or V shape. In our opinion, the construction placed upon this claim by the'Circuit Court is right,
and is required by the language of the specifications and
claim. The claim does not on its face profess to cover a mere
mode of connecting, by means of U-shaped channel irons, the
intermediate with the external rails. It is in form a claim for
a combination of parts, which together constitute a frog of
peculiar construction. The elements of that combination, as
stated in the claim, are, first, the two centre rails B B' joined
to formthe V-shaped point; second, the outside diverging or
wing rails; third, the channel irons of a U shape uniting the
centre rails together, and also tr) the outside or wing rails, so
that the whole shall constitute a frog with the characteristics
imparted by the features of this combination. This coincides
with the statement contained in the brief of counsel for the
appellant, who say, speaking of the invention as described in
the second claim:
"The elements constituting the invention in controversy
are. First, two outside diverging wing and main rails; two
inside V-shaped point rails, the four rails bemg united and
joined together by two channel irons bolted to these rails by
three lines of rivets or bolts, to wit. one line of bolts, bolting
one channel iron to one wing rail; another line of bolts, bolting another channel iron to the other outside wing rail; and
the third line of bolts passing through the two inside wings of
the two channdl plates, and through -the webs of the point
rails, thereby making one structure or maclne. In this construction the cut-away rail forming the point is reinforced on
each side by the vertical wings of the channel irons. The
claim is for this frog or machine so constructed, a frog composed substantially of the elements above named."
The claim refers specifically to the "two centre rails B BI
joined to form the V-shaped poifit" This points explicitly to
the dratings, on wh.ch the two centre rails are designated by
the letters, and also to the mode in which they are shown by
the drawings and the description in the specification to be
joined, and excludes the idea of constructing a frog, such as is

WEIR v. MOIDEN.
Opinion of the Court.

intended to be covered by the second claim, of any other
centre rails than those thus pointed out and described. The
patentee by this mode of description and of claim has made
the centre rails, formed and connectel in the manner described
to make up the V-shaped point, an essential part of the invention intended to be secured by the second claim.
An argument against this construction, made by the counsel
for the appellant, is based upon the language of the- third
claim. That claim is for the channel pieces D extending and
bolted or riveted together beyond the point of the frog and
connecting rivets 0,. which extend entirely through the tWo
point rails and the channel pieces, "in combmation with the
point rails BB', fitted to each other as described." It is
admitted that the language of that claim limits it to the point
railsformed and connected together so as to make the V-shaped
point, according to the specific manner described in the specification and shown in the drawings, and that it does not cover
centre rails of any other description. This limitation is based
upon the words "fitted to each other as described." It is
argued that as this phrase is omitted from the second claim,
the contrary inference must prevail, so that that claim may be
permitted to extend so as to embrace all centre rails joined to
form the V-shaped point, however they may be fitted to each
other. But this variation of language does not seem to us so
significant. The second claim, by the use of the phrase at its
close, "substantially as shown," limits its application quite as
effectually to the particular kind of centre rails described mn
the specification and covered by the first claim, and the reference therein to "the two centre rails B B' joined to form the
V-shaped point," can only mean such point rails as are shown
in the drawings marked B ]B' and joined to form the V-shaped
point referred to in the drawings and described in the specification "substantially as shown."
If this construction of the second claim needed corroboration, that would be found in the state of the art at the time of
tne alleged invention, as shown by the proof in the present
case. The frogs exhibited in evidence as infringements of the
complainant's patent were manufactured by the defendants, as

OCTOBER TERMt, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

they claimed, under patent No. 148,261, dated March 3, 1874,
issued to George Thomas and William MEiller, under whom
they claim, and also under patent No. 173,804. dated February
22, 1876, issued to Morden, one of the defendants, as inventor.
3vMorden's patent of February 22, 1876, showed a connection of
the wing rails for use as frogs by means of a U-iron or "1
trough
plate," the upturned sides of which "1are made to conform to
the curve of the side rails, as well as to the form of the neck
and base of the rails, and are firmly secured to the neck of the
rails by bolts or rivets." Instead of holding the V-shaped
point in place by the use of channel irons, he provided a Vshaped recess in the channel or.trough plate into which the
point of the frog was inserted and held; but in applying Is
device to railroad crossings instead of switches, he used channel or U-shaped irons to connect the points and wing rails. It
is true, as suggested by counsel for the appellant, that a crossing of railroad- tracks is a very different device from a switch,
where the latter is used by means of a frog to shift the engine
and train from one line of tracks to another; but the use of
channel irons is analogous in the two cases, and it would require no more than ordinary mechanical skill to transfer the
channel irons used upon a crossing to firmly hold the parts in
place, to a similar use in a frog to unite firmly in their respective positions the centre rails with the exterior rails.
Independently, however, of this use of channel irons on
crossings, we think tha.t the patent to :Norden of February 22,
18'6, for an improvement in railroad frogs, considered in itself,
leaves no room for invention in the application of channel irons
in uniting the V-shaped point rails with the exterior rails. In
that patent the invention consisted in forming a metallic plate
into a U-shaped trough for the purpose of connecting the outer
rails, leaving the V-shaped ends of the point rails to be secured
by means of a V-shaped recess in the bed of the plate at the
wide end of the trough. There seems to be no invention in
dividing that trough into two, so as to connect the centre rails
on each side, by means of a separate channel iron or U-shaped
trough, with the outer rail exterior to them..
For these reasons the decree of the Circuit Court is
Afflmedo

