'WILLIAM1S v. CONGER.
Syllabus.

WILTAS 'v. CONGER.
FaROR TO THE OIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTIMERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
2'o. 105.

Arguedd)ecember16, 19, 20, 1887.-Declded Aprl 2,1888.

If the removal of a public record from Its place of deposit is not prohibited
by reason of public policy, it constitutes, when legitimately removed, the
best evidence of Its contents and of its authenticity.
An original munimenat of title produced from the public archives in which
it is required by law to be deposited, certified by the public officer who
has custody of it, and identified by him as a witness, is sufficiently authenticated to authorize it to be offered in evidence.
A charge In an action to try title to real estate which instructed the jury
that If they believe that a paper offered n evidence cpntalnlng a signature of a party under whom both'partles' claim was as old as its date
Imported, and that it had been preserved in the public archives as the
initial paper In the grant, they might give to these circumstances the
weight of direct testimony to the genuineness of the signature, and If
the other proof'did not in their judgment overbear Its weight, might find
the signature to be proved, neither takes from the jury the determination
of the weight of evidence, nor submits to it a question that should be
decided by the court.
Papers not otherwise competent cannot be introduced In evidence for the
mere purpose of enabling a jury to institute a comparison of handwriting; but where other writings, admitted or proved to be genuine, are
properly In avidence for other purposes, the handwriting of such instruments may be compared by the jury with that of the instrument or signature In question, and its genuineness Inferred from such comparison.
When the plaintiff and the defendant both claim title under the same original
application, and one Introduces It In evidence and establishes Its Identity,
the other Is estopped from denying the genuineness of the signature to it
-of the party Under whom both claiin.
One claiming under a deed forty years old, through several mense conveyances, may offer the deed in evidence as an ancient deed, though never
seen by any but the first grantee to whom It was given.
A power of attorney authorized the donee to take possession of real estate
by himself or by a person In his confidence, to cultiyate It, to sell It, to
exchange It or to alienate it. He indorsed it to A by a writing stating"I transfer all my powers in favor of A, In order that in my name and as
my a..orney he may take possession,"'&c. HeZd, that the Indorsement
only gave A power to take possession, but no power to sell.
A cause was tried before a Jury in a state court, and being taken to the
highest court of the State that court ordered a new trial, deciding that a

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.
certain document was admissible in evideice as an ancient deed. After
the cause was remanded to the trial court it was removed to the Circuit
Court of the United States. Held, that its decision on that question was
binding on the courts of the United States.
In the courts of the United States it is competent for the court to give to
the jury its opinion upon the weight of evidence, leaving the jury to determine upon the testimony.
In Texas in the year 1833, a power of attorney to take possession of and
convey real estate which was not acknowledged, witnessed, certified to,
written on sealed paper, nor proved before a notary was nevertheless a
valid Instrument, those formalities merely affecting the mode of authenticating it.
The English rule as to the requisites of a power to execute sealed instruments was not in force in Texas when the transactions here in controversy
took place.
" copy made in 1837 of a lost certified copy of a power of attorney is admissible in evidence to show that the original power, found and produced in
court, was an ancient instrument.
". recital in an ancient power of attorney that the donor Is a citizen raises a
presumption of the truth of that fact which can be overthrown only by
Positive proof.

TRE sPAss to try title. Judgment for defendants and judgment on the verdict. Plaintiff sued out this writ of error.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

2.M'. Eugene Wigiam8 for plaintiff in error.
-fr.E. H. Gr ahafor defendants in error.
MR. TusTcp.

BFAr.nY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action of trespass to try title, brought by the
app6llant to recover'from the appellees the possession of
eleven leagues of land, situated in McLennan and Bosqu
countie ,.in Texas, on the west bank of the river Brazos, and
granted'by the government of Coahuila and Texas in December, 1828, to one Miguel R-abago. The defendants pleaded
not guilty; the tatute of limitations and laches. The action
was commenced on the 11th of September, 1873, in the District Court of McLennan County, Texas, and was tried in that
court in the year 187.6, and a verdict was rendered and judgment given for the defendants. The case was 'then appealed

WILLIAMS v. CONGER.
Opinion of the Court.

to the Supreme Court of Texas, and at the Austin Term of
1878 the judgment was reversed for an error in the charge on
the question, of laches, and the cause was remanded for a new
trial. 49 Texas, 582. It was then removed to the Circuit
Court of the United States for. the Northern District of Texas,
and was tried in that court in April Term, 1884. Both parties
claim title under Rabago; the plaintiff, by derivation from his
heirs at law (he having died in 1848), and the defendants
through an alleged conveyance made by Rabago, in his lifetime, by an attorney in fact, one Victor Blanco. No question
is made, therefore, as to the validity of Rabago's title. The
principal controfersy at the trial arose in relation 'to the admission in evidence of two papers offered by the defendants,
nafnely, first, the protocol, or first original, of the application
of abago for the grant, and of the concession made thereon,
produced from the archives in; the office of the Secretary of
State of Coahuila at Saltillo; secondly, the alleged original
power of attorney from Rabago to Blanco, by virtue of winch
the latter executed a conveyance of the land in the name of
Rabago, under which the defendants claim title. The latter
was admitted as an ancient document in case of insufficient
proof of Rabago's signature, but the jury were permitted to
compare the signature with that purporting to be Rabago's
affixed to the protocol of the application for the grant. Several bills of exception were taken by the plaintiff to the rulings
and charge of the court, a verdict was rendered for the defendants, and judgment was entered thereon, to reverse which
the present writ of error was brought.
The following are copies of -thedocuments referred to. The
translation of the alleged protocol of Rabago's application.
and of the concession made thereon, is in -the words following,
to wit:

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

"[Seal of Coahuila and Texas.]
"Petition of Don Mffignel :Rabago for the purchase of eleven
leagues of land in the department of Bexar. December 1st,
1828.
"3d seal. Two reals. Issued by the State of Coahuila and
Texas for the years 1828 and 1829.
",Most Excellent Sir. The citizen Miguel XRabago, resident
of the valley of Santa Rosa, with due respect represents to
you that needing land for agricultural and raising of stock, he
begs you that, by virtue of your authority, you will be pleased
to sell him eleven leagues of land on the margins of the
Trinity river, in the department of Bexar, or in the section
which shall appear to me to be most convenient and best
adapted to my interests, being all together or in different
localities, offering to settle and cultivate said lands within the
time prescribed by the colonization laws of the state of the
24th of March, 1825. Also, that you will be pleased to grant
me the time designated by the said law to pay the dues on the
said land. I ask your excellency that you will be pleased to
refer my petition, for winch I will be thankful.
"Leona Vicario, 28th of :November, 1828.
"(Signed)

MGUEL RABAGo'

"Leona Vicario, 2d ox Dec'r, 1828.

"Conformable to article 24 of the colonization laws of the
9Ath of Maroh, 1825, I sell to the petitioner the eleven leagues
of land, he asks for of the vacant lands in the department of
Texas, in the part he may point out, or in the locality most
The commissioner whom the government
suitable to himn.
will appoint will place him in possession of said leagues, and
will extend the necessary titles, previously classifyinj the class
and quality of said lands as a guide of the amount to be paid
to satisfy the government dues, for which payment I grant him
the time designated by the 22d article of said colonization law
A copy of the "petition and decree will be given to the party
intended, for his observance and the subsequent effects.
"(Signed)
V*MsoA,
SA-xnAeo DE. "VAm."'

WILLIAMS v. CONGER.
Opinion of fhe Court.

'This protocol or second original was authenticated, by a certificate annexed thereto, by the Secretary of State of Coahuila,.
th6 translation of which is in the words following, to wit .
"The citizen, Licentiate Tos6 :fa. Rfusquiz, Secretary of the
Government of Coahuila de Zpragoza, certifies that the annexed document is the original -which exists in the archives of
the Government of Coahuila relative to the concession of eleven
[leagues] of land made to Don MNiguel Babago, in the department of Bexar, on the 2d of Dedember, 1828. And at the
request of the applicant this document -is given, with the obligation of returning it when the suit in which it is to be.used
shal be terminated.
" Saltillo, April 6th, 188L

"[SA.]

(Signed)

Jos0h9 X& MusQuIz, S6t'Y."

The translation of the alleged original power of attorney
from Rabago to Blanco is in the words following, to wit:
"1:MooLov, 8tk wTne, 1832.
,Sefior Don Vidtor Blanco:
"My esteemed Uncle and Sir: With this I hand you the

testimonio'of eleven leagues of land which his Excellency the
Governor of the State granted to me a sale of, in the department of Texas, in order that you may have the goodness to do
whatever should be m your power, so that possession may be
taken of them by yourself or by a person of your confidence,
giving to you the most ample power so that you may cultivate
them, may sell them, may exchange or alienate to your entire
satisfaction, because for everything I authorize you, and I will
stand and I will pass in all time for that which you should do;
and should this my letter power not be snfficient, I will grant
judicially as soon as you please, and notify me that you require
it and you excusing this trouble. I place myself at your
disposal as your most affectionate nephew and servant, who
attentively kisses your hands.
"(Signed)
MIGuEL RABAGO (rubric)."
VOL. CXXV-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opiion of the Court.

(Indorsement.)
"I transfer all my powers in favor of Seflor Doft- Samuel
Williams, postmaster of the town of San Felipe de Austin, in
order that in my name and as my attorney he may take possession of the eleven leagues expressed in this.
"(Signed)
ViTon.BLAxcO (rubrie).
"M onclova, 3d April, 1838."
It appearea on the trial that the extension of final title to
Rabago was made on the 13th of January, 1834, on the application of Samuel M. Williams, as attorney for Rabago; but no
power of attorney authorizing him to make the application
was produced or proved by the plaintiff, whose title depended
on the extension thus obtained. The paper above copied,
however, purporting to be a -ower of attorney from Rabago
to Blanco, and propounded by the defendants, if their witnesses
were to be beliey-ed, was found among the old papers of Williams in the custody of his son, and had on it an indorsement
by Blanco transferring to Williams all the powers conferred
upon hun so far as to enable him (Williams) to take possession
of the eleven leagues of land.
The defendants claimed that after the title was thus extended, to wit, on the 25th of May, 1836, Victor Blanco,
under and by virtue of the power of attorney referred to, sold
the land m question, in the city of :Mexico, to one Guillermo
Ilaguerenne by an act of sale passed before one Bonilla, a
notary public; and that Laguerenne, on the 10th of January,
1837, in the city of Mexico, executed before one Madriago,
a notary public, a power of attorney to Francisco Priolland,
of New Orleans, authorizing him to sell all and any real
estate belonging to Laguerenne, and -that the latter, in pursuance of .said power, did sell the said eleven leagues on the
_15th of February,. 1837, to one George L. Hammekml, by act
of -sale passed before one Caire, a notary public -of N~ew
Orleans... It --was admitted that the defendants had a regular
chain of title from Rammekin.
The course of the trial was as follows- The plaintif first
gave in evidence a duly certified translation of the title of

WILLIAMS v. CONGER.
Opinion of the Court.

Rabago, from the records of the general land ofice of Tbxas,
.consisting of 1. A testimonio of Rabago's application for the grant,
dated N vember 28th, 1828; and of the concession madt
thereon, dated December 2d, 1828.
[The above testimonio was lated December 2d, 1828, and
signed by the Government Secretary.]
2. The extension .of title, comprising the application for
extension by S. X. Williams, as attorney of Rabago, dated
December 3d, 1833; the approval of the empresarios (of whom
Williams was one); the order of survey; the field notes of

the survey, &c.; concluding witli a formal patent. This
expediente was indorsed as filed in the Land Office June th,
1875.
The plaintiff then proved the death of Rabago, and deduction of title from Rabago's heirs to himself, and rested.
The defendants preparatory to offering their documentary
evidence of title, including, amongs. othbr things, Ist,,the said
protocol, or first original of Rabago's application for the grant,
with his signature thereto, and the original concession made
to-him thereon; .2d, the original power of attorney, above
mentioned, from Babago to Blanco; 3d, the act of sale from
Rabago, by his attorney Blanco, to Laguerenne; 4th, Laguerenne's power to Priolland; 5th, Priolland's act of sale to
lammekin ;-submitted the following evidence, to wit: The
depositions taken at Saltillo, Mexico, in August, 1881, of Jos6
M. M'usquiz, Secretary of State of Coahuila, and exo o]Icio
custodian of the archives relating to land grants in Texas;
and of Estaban Portflo., keeper in charge of said archives,
who identified the paper produced by the defendants purporting to be such protoc6l, or first original; of Rabago's applicatioh, found (as they testify) among the saidl archives in the
proper office in Saltillo, and which by the law of the state
might be alowed to go out of the office by the permission of
the governor. Also, the depositions -of Ex-Governor E. M.
Pease, of Austin, Texas, and of Andrew lNeill, a notary public
of the same place, who testified. that they were familiar with
the signatures of Yiesca and Del Valle by having often seen

"

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.

Opinion of the Court.

them as affixed to the public archives, laws and records of
,Coahuila and Texas, deposited in the public offices of the
State of Texas, and believed their signatures to the purported
original concession, attached to said application, to be their
genuine handwriting. The defendants, also gave in evidence
the testimony of John Willett, to the effect that he 'rocured
the said protiocol in Saltillo, for the use of the counsel of the
defendants, by the courtesy of the governor of Coahuila, and
of the seeretary, lffusquiz, upon giving his bonds for its return.
It was also in evidence that Rabago was in Saltillo.(which is
the same as Leona Vicario) in person when the original concession was granted, and brought the testimomo home with
hun, and the interpreter testified that the application and
concession in the certified copy put in evidence by the plaintiff is a good translation of the document produced by the
defendants.
The defendants then gave in evidence the testimony of
William H:. Williams, son of Samuel M. Williams, born in
1833, and of M. E. Xlieberg, of Galveston, tending to prove
that .the said paper, purporting to be the original power of
attorney from 1Rabago to Blanco, of which a copy has been
given, was found in 1816 by said Klieberg after a search
therefor at the request of said William H. Williams in behalf
of General Thomas Eamson, one of the defendants, in an old
leather trunk that had belonged to said Samuel F. Williams,
of whose papers said William H. Williams was custodian, and
which trunk contained old miscellaneous papers of s6id Samuel
relating to occurrences before the year 1836, and had always
been in said Willi m's possession since his father's death in
1858; that the paper in question was an old looking paper;
that the trunk contained several letters and documents signed
by Victor Blanco; and that said paper, with said letters and
documents, were delivered to General Harrison.
The defendants also gave in evidence the testimony of
George L. Hammekin, taken before a notary in November,
1876, who stated that he .purchased the land in controversy
about forty years before, in the city of Nfew Orleans,. from
Francisco Priolland, acting as attorney for Guill6rmo . .a

WILLIAMS v. CONGER.
Oplnioh of the Court.

guerenne; and had in his possession for a long time a paper
purporting to be a copy of a jower of attorney from Miguel
Rabago to Victor Blanco, and had it then (whilst testifying).
That it was dated Monclova, 8th Tune, 1882; first saw it in
1837 or 1838; that Laguerenne was a Frenchman or an American; that the land was sold to him May 25th, 1836, and by
him to witness in February, 188T. [The copy referred to by
the witness was annexed to his deposition, and exactly corresponded with the paper propounded by the-defeudants as the
original. It had annexed to it a certificate, of which the following is a translation, to wit :]
"I, the undersigned notary, do certify that the -foregoing
copy is, to the letter, the same as the original power that Don
Victor Blanco has presented to me, and the same that I had
before me when making out the bill of sale, that on the 25th
day -of May, 1836, made by virtue of it to Don Guill6rmo
Laguerenne of eleven sitios of land situated in the department
of Texas, on the west side of the Brazos'River, above the road
that leads from the town of iacogdoches to Bejar, as it
appears in the public records in my charge. And so that this
be of value wherever required, and at the request of the party
interested, I issue duplicates of the present in Mexico, the 17th
day of March, 1837, being witnesses Dn. lRafael de Revilla,
Dn. Teoflo Carreno, and Dn. Felipe de Revilla .Olivares, of

this community.
"(Signed)

MiGuEL

z
EzDE

BomLLA,

"2gNotarv Pvhl."

The defendants also gave in evidence the further testimony
of said Hammelin, taken by deposition on the 26th of March,
1880, wherein he says: "I have had the following title papers"
of the lRabago grant in my possession: Let. Testimonio, or
second original issued in name of Miguel Rabago. 2. A letter
of attorney from Miguel RabagQ to Victor Blanco. 3. Sale
by Victor Blanco as attorney for, said :Rabago to said laguerenne. 4. Power of attorney from said Laguerenne to
Francis Friolland. 5. Sale by said Pnolland to myself.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opmion of the Court.

"I received the above-entitled papers from Francis Prioiland
in New Orleans at the time I niade the purchase. I delivered
them to my agent, Robert Rose, and have not seen them since.
I saw to-day the original power of attorney from Rabago to
Blanco. I have seen Blanco's signature frequently before and
after I left Mexico. I know Victor Blanco?s signature because
I have seen it on many papers having no reference to the
Rabago grant. It appears on the said original power of attorney, subscribed to the transfer made to Samuel May Williams.
I believe the transfer is in Blanco's handwriting, and I ]mow,
the signature is his. I had a copy of said power -certified
before and by MigIl Diez de Bonilla in the city of Mexico. I
also had a copy of this copy" The witness stated that this
last copy was delivered by him to General Harrison; and that
the original testimonio of title was deposied by him in the
general land office at Houston in 1873. [These papers were
offered in evidence by the defendants, the said copy of the
power being shown to be an exact copy or counterfeit of the
purported original power.] The witness further stated that
he and his vendees had exercised acts of ownership on this
eleven league graut and claimed it certainly since May, 1888;
and sated the manner in which such acts of ownership had
been exercised.
Hammekm further testified, in another deposition, that the
original act of sale from Rabago by Victor Blanco to Laguerenne, dated May 25th, 1836, which was given to the witness
by Priolland when he purchased the land in 1837, was executed before Miguel Diez de Bonilla, a notary public in the
city of Mexico; that he knew the signature of said officer,

and recognized his signature to said act of sale as his genuine
signature, becausq he had often employed Bonilla during his
(witness's) residence n Mexico from 1881 to 1836; that he
delivered it to Robert Rose, his attorney and agent, in 1850,
and had not seen it since. He also stated that he had, then,
in his possession, 1st, a legal copy of the original testimonio
of title to Rabago, followed by a petition to Tudge Alltors by
Guilrino Laguerenne for the same, and a certificate signed
by Miguel Diez de Bouilla, and the certificate of the Amerl-

WILLIAMS v. CONGER.
OpirnoR of the Court.

can consul; 2d, a simple copy of the sale from Rabago by
Blanco to, Laguerenne, followed by a copy of the receipt of
the treasurer of the- custom house of Mexico, for the alcabala
from. said Lagnerenne. These papers were attached to the
deposition. The certificates are dated in the year 1836. To
show the loss of the paper given by2Hammekin to his agent,
Robert Rose, the defendants produced as a witness John N.
Rose, who testified that Robert Rose was his brother, was
a lawyer, and died in Washington city in :May, 1871, and that
he (John) was .Robert's administrator, and had charge of all
his papers, and had several times searched for, and failed to
find, the following papers, viz.. 1st, the deed from Rabago, by
his attorney Blanco, to Laguerenne; 2d. the power of attorney from Rabago to Blanco, dated the 8th. of June, 1832; 3d,
*thepower of attorney from Laguerenne to Priolland. executed
in Mexico, January 10th, 183'T.
The defendants also gave in evidence the testimony of
several witnesses, tending to prove that they and those from
whom they derived title had constantly exercised acts of
ownership over the land in question from the time of the
origin of their title, by paying the taxes, filing the mumments
of title, surveying the tract into parcels, selling to settlers, leasing to tenants, compromising with persons who got unauthorized possession of portions of the land, etc., and that, by these
means, the tract had become largely settled, and many valuable improvements had been erected thereon.
E. D. Conger testified on the stand: That lie is one of the
defendants in this case, and was one of the purchasers from
Gen. Harrison; that before they purchased they had the title
examined by competent attorneys, and bought on the faith
of their opinion as to the title; that they never heard of any
adverse claim until the institution of this suit, that the land
bought by the Congers was the remnant of the grant after the
best parts of it had been sold off, that they have paid taxes
on the land regularly since they have purchased it; that there
were about one hundred settlements on the eleven leagues
when they purchased, but none on the part they purchased.
The defendants also introduced in evidence:

OCTOBER TERMI, 1881.
Opinion of the Court.

1st. A certificate from the comptroller of the State, showmg that Robert Rose as agent for G. L.Hamnimekin, rendered
for laxes for the years 1851 to 1859, both inclusive, 48,100
acres of the M. Rabago grant in McLennan County, and that
the records do not show that there were any other assessments
made for those years.
2d. An original lease from A. X. Hughes to William Graham to the Neville.league on said grant, dated May 24th,
1854. It recites .that Hughes is acting for Robert Rose,
the agent for Mr. Goodrich, who clahns the Rabago eleven
leagues of land. Also, a transfer from said Graham to David
E. London of this lease, dated October 11th, 1854.
3d. A power of- attorney from George L. aimmekin to
Robert Rose, dated May 24th, 1855, recorded in the records of
McTennan County, April 2Sth, 1857. It is a general power
to prosecute, sue for, recover, and establish his claim to lands
situated in different patts of Texas. To compronse with
settlers, and sell
4th. Docket of the District Court of Mctennan- County,
showing the suits about the land before the war, styled Hammekin v. 6rakm and _Yammein v. Be.
The original act of sale from Rabago, by Blanco, to Laguerenne, purchased by the defendants as after mentioned, recites
that the sale was made under a "letter power," which the
-officer saw, read, and returned-to the party, Blanco. It was
in evidence that Rabago was a citizen of the State of Coahuila,
and that he and his family lived there all their lves. The
original testimomo of the title, dated January 13th, 1834,
which Hammekin testified was delivered to him by Priolland
when he bought in 183'(, was also put in evidence by the
defendants.
Other evidence referred to in the charge of the court need
not be adverted to here.
Aftei the introduction of the foregoing evidence, the defendants offered in evidence, as a part of their title, the said protocol, or first original of Eabago's application for the said.
eleven league grant, and of the concession made thereon,
dated, respectively, the 28th of November and the 2d of

WILLIAMS v. CONGER.
Oplion of the Court.

December, 1828. The plaintiff objected to its admission on
the following grounds.
1st. That it is irrelevant and forms no part of the defendants' title.
2d. The paper, if genuine, is an archive of a foreign government, and from public policy cannot be introduced in our
courts, but only a lawfully certified and examined copy -can
be introduced.
3d. The custodian shows that he holds- it by mrtue of a
foreign law which is not properly proven.
4th. But if the paper be admitted, then it is-objected to for
purposes of compaison of handwriting, for which object dIone
it is introduced. Because First. It is not such a paper as was required to be signed
by Rabago, and no presumption can arise that it was so
signed by reason of its being an archive or ancient document.
Second. There is no evidence of the handwriting being that
of Babago.
Third. It is not admitted nor proven to be the genuine
handwriting of Rabago.
Fourth. The instrument *withwhich it is to be compared is
not so old but that living witnesses to the questioned signature
can be and are actually introduced.
The court overruled these objections and permitted the
paper to go to the jury for all purposes, subject to be controlled by his charge as to its being a standard of comparison
for the handwriting of Miguel Rabago. To this ruling the
plaintiff excepted.
The plaintiff then offered evidence to rebut that adduced
by the defendants, as to the genuineness o.f the alleged protocol, to wit: the testimony of Antonio-Garcia Corillo and
:Ramon L. Flores, the purport of which was, that Flores, thn
chief clerk of the Department of State, at the request, of
Corillo, had searched the archives in 1874 for everything
relating to-the lRabao grant, and had not found the document. now producel .by the defendants. -The court giill
adhered to iii ruling to"admit the document in evidence.
This raises the first question i- the cause, namely, whether

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

the protocol, or first original of the application and concession,
belonging to the public arohives of the State of Coahuila, at
Saltillo, is admissible as evidence. The court below decided
that it was, and we have difficulty in seeing any reason why
it should not be. It is true that the testimonio given out to
the interested party is a second original, and is treated as an
original, and may be admitted in evidence as such; but it
does not take away from the validity and faith of the fnrst
original. The latter may always be resorted to for the purpose of correcting any errors in the testimonio. It is true, it
may be deemed a matter of public policy in some states to
prohibit public records from being removed from their places
of deposit; but if their removal is allowed, or in any legitimate way effected, they certainly constitute the best evidence
of their contents and authenticity. No public policy could
have been contravened, in the present case, but that of the
State of Coahuila, or the Republic of Mexico. If the authorities of Coahuila allowed the removal of the protocol in question, we do not see what objection could be made by the
courts of Texas, or of the United States, On general ground,
there is no valid. ob3ection to its admissibility. Though by
the practice of the courts a certified or sworn copy of a record
of another court may suffice it is not unusual for the record
itself to be brought in. In Taylor on Evidence, § 1377,it is
said: "The general records of the realm, which are placed
under the custody of the Master of the Rolls, may be proved
by copies purporting to be verified by the deputy-keeper of
the records, or one of the assistant record-keepers, and to be
sealed and stamped with the seal of the record office; and in
cases of importance before the House of Lords or elsewhere,
permission will be given to one of the assistant keepers to
produce the original record." In § 1378, it is also said 1 The
records of the superior courts may either be proved by the
mere production of the originals, or, - as this course would be
highly inconvenient to the public if generally adopted, since it
might lead to mutilation or loss of valuable documents, - they
may be proved by means of copies. Of these, there are four
kinds; viz., exemplifications under the Great Seal; exemplifi-

WILIAMS v. CONGER.
Opmo

of the Court.

cations under the seal of the particular court where the record
remains; office copies; and examined copies." This shows
that originals are admissible as evidence, if properly authenticated. We do not see how it could -ill be more satisfac.
torily authenticated than it was, namely, by the certificate
annexed to it by the Secretary of State of Coahuila, and by
the actual identification of it, made by the said secretary-and
his keeper of records when examned as witnesses in the cause.
The objection that it was irrelevant is certainly untenable. It
was one of the links in the defendants' 6hain of title. They
were not bound to rest on the tesimonio of the same document introduced in evidence by the plaintiff, nor on that
introduced by themselves. They were entitled, if they chose,
to put in the very original itself, even if it were cumulative
evidence. As to the uses to which it might be applied, being
admissible as evidence, it might go before the jury, and be
*used, under the charge of the court, for all legitimate purposes
'in the cause. It- was certainly available as a link in the
defendants' chain of title, if for nothing more.
The defendants contended that the signature purporting to
be that of Rabago, appended to the application, might be examined by the jury as a standard of comparison of Rabago's
handwriting, on the question whether the signature purporting to be his on the other paper, namely, the power of
attorney from Rabago to Victor -Blanco, was genuine or not.
This was resisted by the plaintiff on the grounds stated above;
and, before the cause went to the jury, the plamtiff- requested
the court to charge that, at the date of the signature to the
application, the law did not require it to be signed byRAbago;
and that it should only be considered as one of the links in
the chain of defendants' title, and not for the purpose of comparison of handwriting; and that the jury should not consider
such signature as the signature of Rabago for that purpose.
The court refused to give this instruction, and the Plaintiff
excepted; and the court then charged the jury on this point

as follows, to wit:
"The defendants have also offered a paper which purports
to be the original application of Miguel Rabago for this conces-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

s1on which purports to be signed by said Rabago in personthat is, by himself, and have offered proof to the effect that Ghis
paper came from the office of the archives at Saltillo, which
is the proper custody for said original application and decree,
and to the effect that the signatures of Governor Yiesca and
of the secretary are genuine, with proof as to the circumstances of the finding said paper, and manner [of] keeping said
archives, and if you believe from the proof that said paper

so offered by the defendants i§ as old as its date imports, that
it has been preserved in the archives as the initial paper connected with this grant, you may give these circumstances the
weight of direct testimony to the genuineness of said signature, and if the other proof in the case does not in your judgment overbear this weight you may find the signature to this
original application to be the proved signature of Miguel Rabago, and use it as a standard of comparison to aid you in
determining the genuineness of the signature to the writing
purporting to be a letter power from said :Rabago to Yictor
Blanco."
To which charge of the court the plaintiffs counsel objected
and excepted for the following reasons:
1st. The charge is upon the weight of evidence.
2d. It submits to the jury a question which should be decided by the court.
3d. It submits to the jury a paper for the comparison of
handwriting which is neither proven nor admitted,to be genuine, nor to be signed by the genuine signature of Miguel
Rabago.
The first and second reasons are certainly not well assigned.
The charge does not take from the jury the determination of
the weight of the evidence; nor does it submit to the jury a
question of law determinable only by the court. Whether
the signature appended to the application, purporting to be
:Rabago's, if the jury believed it to be his, might legally beused by them as a standard of comparison to aid them in deternining the genmneness of the signature to the writing pu'rporting to be a letter power from Rabago to Blanco, is the
Important question arising upon the charge.

WILLIAMS v. CONGER.
Opuilon of the Court.

It is well settled that a witness who only knows a person's
handwriting from seeing it in papers produced on the trial,
and proved or admitted to be his, wM not be allowed, from
such knowledge, to testify to that person's handwriting, unless
the witness be an expert, and the writing in question is of such
antiquity that witnesses acquainted with the person's handwriting cannot be had. (Green]. on Ev.§ 578.) It is also the
result of the weight of authority that papers cannot be mtroduced in a cause for the mere purpose of enabling the jury
to institute a comparison of. handwriting, said-papers not being
competent for any other purpose. (Green]. on Ev. §§ 579,
581.) But where other writings, admitted or proved to be
genuine are properly in evidence for other purposes, the handwriting of such instruments may be compared by the jury
with that of the instrument or signature in question, and its
genuneness inferred from such comparison. 6ript -v.Ti lZiame, 1 Crompton & Servis, 47; )oe de. Pe7ry v. Newton,
5 Ad. & El. 514; V7an T]yckv. 3folktosk,.4 Kernan (14 1 .Y.)
439; .Mieev. Loomio, 75 N. Y. 288; -edway v. United
&ate8, 6 Ct. 01. 421 ; XfcAZWietr v. _tcAZ~iter, 7 B. -Mon.
269; 1 PhiL on Ev.4th Am. Ed. 615; Greenl. Ev.§ 578. The
history of this last rule is well stated in -Medway v. Uniteg
States, qua 8upra. In O'WP v. WTllia7m it was stated by
the court that "where two documents are in evidence, it i'
competent for the court or jury to compare them. The rule
as to the comparison of handwriting applies to witnesses who
can only compare a writing to which they are examined with
the character of the handwriting impressed upon their own
minds; but that rule does not apply to the court-or jury, who
may compare the two documents when they are properly in
evidenee." In Doe v. Newton, Lord Denman said - "There
being two documents in question in the cause, one of which is
known to be in the handwriting of a party, the other alleged,
but denied to be so, no human power can prevent the jury
from comparing them with a view to the question of genuineness; and therefore itis best for the court to enter with the
jury into that inquiry, and to do the best it can under circumstances which cannot be helped.' The other judges expressed

OCTOBER TERN, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

substantially the same view.

"The.true rule on this subject,"

said Justice Johnson, in Tr,, Wt,,7,i v. folto k, (4 Yernall 439,
442,) "is that laid dowu in Doe v. 2!ewton, that where different instruments are properly in evidence for other purposes,
the handwriting of such instruments may be compared by the
jury, and the genuineness or simulation of the handwriting in
question be inferred from such comparison. But other instruments or signatures cannot be introduced for that purpose."
See Amer. note to Grite v. ViWaim, 1 Cr. & Jerv. 47,
Phil. Ed.
This rule is not contravened by the decisions of the Supreme
Court of Texas or of this court. The leading case m Texas on
comparison of handwriting is THaZey v. Gandy, 28 Texas, 211,
which only decides that other papers, not connected with the
cause, cannot be introduced for the mere purpose of instituting
a comparison of handwriting. Nfo case decides that a signature to be proven cannot be compared by the jury with other
papers or signatures of the party, properly in evidence in the
cause. Stp'othr v. Lua, 6 Pet. 763, the leading case in this
court, relates to the competency- of, a witness to testify as to
the genuineness of. a signature without having any knowledge
of the' party's handwriting; and the court held that such evidence was not admissible. The case of Xoore v. The United
'tate&, 91 U. S. 270, affirms the"rule in question in cases where
the paper used as a standard of comparison is admitted to be
in the handwriting of the party, or where he is estopped from
denying it to be so, it does not disaffirm the rule as applied to
cases where the standard is plearly proved to be in such handwriting. In that case the paper referred to as the standard of
comparison was the claimant's power of attorney given to his
attorney in fact, by virtue of which the ratter presented his
case to the Court of Claims. It was held that he was estopped
from denying that the signature to the power was in his handwriting. The present case is quite similar to that. The plaintiff himself claims title under the very application of Rabago,
the signature to which is -claimed to b6 a proper standard of
comparison of Rabago's handwriting. Is he not estopped
from denying- it to be Babago's hand ? His counsel say that

WILLIAMS v. CONGER.
Opinion of the Court.

-at that period of time the application did not require the
party's signature. Even if this be so, still it is proved that
BRabago was at Saltillo at the time the application was made,
and it purports to be signed by him, and not by any person
for him; and, if the document is the real protocol of the application as presented, it is to be presumed, at least until the
contrary is shown, that the signature which it bears is -thereal
signature of Rabago. Whether the document is or is not the
real protocol of the application as presented, was fairly left to
the jury under the circumstances and evidence of the case which, we may add, were so strong, and convincing that the
jury would not have been justified in finding in the negative.
The evidence, indeed, was such as hbundantly to satisfy the
condition, that the paper referred to as a standard of comparison must be clearly proved to be genuine. We think that the
charge of the court was right.
The defendants next offered in evidence, as an ancient instrument, the alleged original power of attorney from Rabago
to Victor Blanco, found by the witness Klieberg in the old
trunk, at Galveston, a copy of which, with the indorsements
thereon, has been already given. The plaintiff objected to its
admission for the following reasons, to wit:
First. Having been in the trunk since March, 1836, it could
not have been the instrument by virtue of which title passed
from Babago in the city of Mexico, by deecd from Blanco to
Laguerenne on the 25th of MYay, 1836.
Second. The recitals in the deed contradict the evidence of
Williams and Klieberg, under whose testimony it is introduced.
Third. It cannot be introduced as an ancient instrumenrt,
because, 1st. No possession was ever held under it, it not coming to
the possession of the defendants for forty years after its execution.
2d. It is suspicious on its face by reason of not being
acknowledged, certified to, witnessed, nor written on sealed

paper.
3d. It does not come from the proper custody.
Fourth. It is not such an instrument as would have passed
title to land in 1832 or in 1836.

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the.Court.

1st. It is not acknowledged, witnessed, certified to, noi
written on sealed paper.
2d. No summons.was served upon the grantor to appear
before an official for the purpose of rendering it an authentic
or judicial act.
Fifth. The power to 'Blanco, if any, could not pass an equitable title, if any, winch could not be cognizable in a court of
law.
Sixth. It is not made part of the Laguerenne deed..
Seventh. If it conveyed any power, it was divested out of
and from Blanco by the indorsement and delivery to Samuer
May Williams in 1833.
Eighth. It appears to have been executed, if at all, before
six years from the issuance of the concession, and does not
bind the attorney nor his vendees to cultivate the land.
Ninth. It genuine, it was revoked by the war of 1835, the
revolution between Texas and :Mexico, and the constitution of
March 1'Tth, 1836.
Tenth. It cannot act as power to make a parol or verbal
sale, because no possession was taken under it within a reasonable time.
These ob3ections were overruled, the paper admitted in eviUence, and the plaintiff excepted; this being the fourth exception- taken at the trial.
The objections made against the admission of the paper seem
to be either.entirely uufounded, or triVial in their character.
It is not testified by William H. Williams that it had been m
the black trunk ever since March, 1836; he could not know
such a fact, for he was only born in 1833. He only says that
it Was probably placed in the trunk by his mother at the time
of the "runaway scrape" (which took .place on the advance of
Santa, Anna in March, 1836); that from lIs mother's statements, she had his father's papers with her at that time, and
that she kept them until her death, and the witness has hept
them from that time until now; that the trunk was either in
his father's or mother's possession, until it came into his; that
his earliest recollection of it was in 1840, at their house in Galveston, where it remained until 1859; but that it was tradition-

WILLIAMS v. CONGER.
Opinion of the Court.

ally known to witness to have been with the family at San
Philipe de Austin and at Quintana, and afterwards at Galveston; that from 1836 to 1838 his father and mother lived at
Quintana, at the mouth of the Brazos liver.
There is nothing inthis testimony inconsistent with the fact
that Blanco may have transmitted the paper to Samuel K.
Williams after the execution of the deed to Laguerenne in
Mexico in May, 1837. As it was Williams's authority for taking possession of the property, and not recited in the final title
papers, he may have wished it returned to him.
There is nothing in the recitals of the deed to Laguerenne
repugnant to the above hypothesis. That deed (which will be
more. particularly mentioned hereafter) begins as follows:
"Before me, notary public and witnesses, Don-V/ictor Blanco,
in name of Don Miguel Rabago, in virtue of letter power
which has conferred on him for various purposes, among
which is comprised the faculty tbat he can sell and may sell
the lands which he has in Texas, which he showed to me,
which I have seen, read, and returned to the party, and to it
That the aforesaid Don
in his possession I refer, -said.
proceeding in the usual
etc.
[then
possesses,"
Miguel Rabago
here at all inconno
recital
is
sale].
There
act
of
of
an
form
sistent with the testimony of Williams or of M1ieberg, and,
as the notary certifies that the power was exhibited to hin,
Blanco had no occasion to retain it in his possession. Besides,
he was a near relative and friend of Rabago, and did not
require it.
The other reasons given for objecting to the adnission of
the power are equally untenable. It is said that no possession
was ever held under it, it not coming into the defendants'
possession for forty years after its execution. This is not true.
The possession of the defendants and of those whose title they
hold was always under and by virtue of the instrument. If
property passes through a dozen hands in the course of forty
years, each keeping in his own possession the deed given to
him, the possession of all is equally under the first deed, which
.may be given in evidence as an ancient deed, although never
seen by any but the first grantee to whom it was given. The
voL. cm cv-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

paper is said to be sutpicious on its face,.for want of acknowledgment, etc., and that no summons was served on the grantor
to appear before an official to render it an authentic or judicial
act. It is enough to say that none of these things affect the
validity of the instrument; and the circumstances of the case
and of the time are sufficient (if any reason is necessary) to
account for the absence of these formalities. Besides, they
relate more especially to the effect of the instrument than to
its admissibility as an ancient document; and in that regard
will be examined under the seventh exception, hereafter considered. We see nothing in the other objections to call for
remark, except the one that supposes the power was divested
out of Blanco by the indorsement and delivery to Samuel :Y?.
Williams. This is not so. The indorsement merely gives
Williams power to "take possession of the eleven leagues."
The power to sell was not transferred. This very fact suggests the reason why the power was returned by Williams to
Blanco after the possessory title had been completed. Blanco
would want it for the purpose of..enabling him to make a
sale. The more we consider the circumstances, the more clear
it appears that the evidence :s entirely harmonious, and consistent with itself. We think that the paper was properly
admissible as an ancient writing. It is unnecessary to dilate
on the subject of -ancient documents in general, and when
they are adihissible. We are of the opinion that all the conditions of admissibility were satisfied in this case.
But there is another reason why it is proper that we should
so hold. The case was once before the Supreme Court of
Texas on an appeal taken to set aside the verdict rendered on
a former trial, and that court held, under the same evidence
used at the trial in the Circuit Court, that the document was
admissible in evidence as an ancient one. If the action had
originally been brought in the Circuit Court upon proper jurisdictional grounds; and had been tried as it was in the state
court, and if, on a writ of error from this court, we had decided as the Supreme Court of Texas did, -we should have
felt bound by our first decision. We would not have allowed
it to be questioned. Clark v. Zeihz, 106 T. S. 461. The

WILLIAMS

v. CONGER.

OpInon of the Court

present case is in exactly the same category. The removal of
the cause from the state court does not put us in the position
of a court of review over the Supreme Court of Texas.
When it acted, it-was -the highest court that could act in the
cause, and stood in precisely the same position that we stand
now. Its action must be accepted by us as that of a court
having plenary and final jurisdiction.
By the fifth .exception, objection is made to that portion of
the judge's charge in which he says: "By the law in force at
the time this letter power of attorney purports to have been
transferred to Samuel May Williams (April 3d, 1833), authorizmg him to solicit title to and take possession of said eleven
leagues, and at the time said Blanco made Ins deed to Laguerenne, Blanco could have procured, if he desired, and retained
in his possession a legal copy of the power of attorney, which
would have all the force and effect of the original; and although the original might .at the time be in Samuel May
Williams's trunk, in Texas, Blanco's conveyance to laguerenne
would not on that account be without authority if the said
paper in Williams's trunk was a genuine paper giving him such
power. Such power, if conferred, was conferred on the one
named, and remained with hlin, whether evidenced by the
original writing or such copy."
It is objected that there is no evidence that any attempt was
ever made by Blanco to obtain such a copy; and that none
could have been obtained, because the original had never been
an archive of any office. This same objection was before the
Supreme Court of Texas. That court seems to have adopted
the -hypothesis that Williams never returned the power to
Blanco, and that the latter, therefore, did not return it to WilHams after maling use of it m the sale to :Laguerenne. The
court says: "Where should we have expected to find the
instrument? Certainly :we would infer that it should have
been placed by the commissioner to whom it was presented
either with the papers pertaining to the title which he issued
for the laud, or have been returned to the party by whom it
was presented to him But as the title shows that it was not
incorporated into it, as is most usual when the power is an an-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinon of the Court.

thentic act, we should expect to find it in the cust.dy of Williams, in whom the title and possession of it purports on its
face to be vested; or, if not, that he would have transmitted
it to his principal, Blanco. But as the latter appears to have
taken the precaution to have another power of like effect from
Rabago, or to have secured an official copy of this one before
remitting it to Williams, there was no necessity for its being
returned to him." Certainly there is nothing unreasonable or
improbable in the hypothesis that the paper should have been
executed in duplicate, in view of the fact that the possessory
title to the land had yet to be obtained, and some person in
Texas would have to be authorized to attend to it. We think,
therefore, that the judge was justified in making the charge he
did, and that the jury could not have been misled by it. The
fact that Blanco had the original, or a copy in Mexico on the
25th of May, 1836, does not detract from the force of the presumptions in favor of the power found in the trunk.
The sixth exception was taken to that portion of the charge
which related to the evidence proper to be taken into consideration on-the question of the genuineness of the power of
attorney and its effect. The portion of the charge referred to
is as follows, to wit:
"The defendants introduced testimony tending to show that
as early as 1838 :Eammekin had placed in his possession the
*deedfrom Blanco to Laguerenne, referring to such a power of
attorney; that heiiisted on having an authenticated copy of
said powei furnished him; that very soon thereafter he received
said copy of said power, which he placed (with other title papers) in the hands of his agent, retaining a copy made. by said
Hammekin, which copy has been given you, declared by the
interpreter to be identical (with inmaterial exceptions) in terms
with the letter power offbred by defendants; that Hammekin
had placed the testimonio in the .land office as required by law
of persons having.such evidence of title to land in Texas, that
said Hammekm paid the government dues on said grant, had
paid taxes, had sent agents on the land as-early as the growing
settlement of the country so far freed this section of the country from the hostile Indians, as permitted its occupancy, and

WILLIAMS v. CONGER.
Opinion of the Court.

the assertion of ownership by assuming actual control of it,
and that Haminekun and those to whom he conveyed and the
defendants claiming under them had continued to assert ownership to these lands under said power of attorney, and if, in
your udgment, said proof establishes such facts, and the proof
as to the age and custody of the said letter power satisfies you
that said paper is as olcl as its date imports, and has been in
the custody that said evidence indicates, you may consider this
proof equal to the direct testimony of at least one witness to
the signature of Miguel Rabago; and unless in your judgment
the evidence of plaintiff's 3vitnesses and v!1 the circumstances
of these parties and these transactions as shown by all the testimony p~oves that liguel lRabago did not sign said letter
power, you will find said letter power to be genuine, and
return your verdict for the defendants."
To this extract from the charge the plaintiff's counsel objected
1st. Because it is a charge upon the weight of evidence.
2d. It is in itself an incorrect statement of law.
The plaintiff's counsel seem to overlook the language of the
charge. The court did not say that such and such facts were
proved, but that the defendants introduced testimony tending
to show such facts; and left the testimony with the jury.
Besides, we have repeatedly held that the court may give to
the jury its opinion on the weight of evidence. We see no
error whatever in the charge.
The seventh exception was taken to a portion of the charge
which instructed the jury that if the papers and documents
relied on by the defendants, and constituting their chain of
title, were genuine, they conclusively show that Rabago
parted with his title in his lifetime, and no right to it could
pass to his heirs by descent, and that the defendants by reason,
of their right thus acquired would be entitled to a verdict.
The ground assigned for this exception was that the letter
power of attorney was not such an instrument as could convey
land in Texas at that time, because it was not an authentic
instrument, being neither acknowledged, witnessed, certified
to, nor written on sealed paper, nor proved before z notary;

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opimon of the Court.

and no summons was even served on Rabago to appear before
an official for the purpose of rendering it an authentic or
judicial act. We apprehend that the want of. the formalities
referred to merely affects the mode of authenticating the
instrument. If it is passed before a notary public and witnesses, and is certified as a tmetimomio, it is called an authentic
instrument and proves itself. If not thus authenticated, it
must be proved to have been executed by 'the party to be
charged with it. T atrous v. -6c rew, 16 Texas, 506, 509,
513; -Andrews v. Xazreal, 26 Texas, 212; Jones v. Montes,
15 Texas, 351, 352; Ckam ers v. -Fisk, 22 Texas, 504, GonaZe68 v. Ross, 120 U. S. 605, 624; Hariik v. Barton, 16
Wall. 166, 1'l, 1,72. The appellant relies upon a passage in
Escriche ('verbo Poder) where he says that a power of attorney
is to be made before a notary public, and to have certain formalities described. But he there refers to the technical power
called, in the Spanish law, poder, orprocuraoin,having much
the same meaning as our term "power of attorney," which
indicates a power or authority under sial. But the technical
poder is not the only form by which authority may be given
to act for another. A technical power, executed witt aR the
solemnities, is but one form of a mandate (mandato,manda-m ento). Under the word mandato, the same Escriche says:
"Mandate. A consensual contract, by which one of the parties confides the carrying on or execution of one or more
matters of business to the other who takes it in Is charge.
Mandate has also the name of procuration, and the
anandatary that of procurator; but the word mandate is more
general and comprehends every power given to another in
whatsoever mode it be, whilst procuration supposes a power
given by writing"
Again. "The mandate may be contracted between persons present, or absent, by words, by messengers, by public writing or -private writing, and even by
letter, as likewise by acts; e.g., if a person, being present,
allows another to transact ins business, &c." "See farther to
the same effect, Azo and Manuel's Institutes, Book II, Tit.
Xi1; Tapia's Febrero Novisimo, Book II, Tit. IV, c. 13, 14;
Partida Vr, Tit. XIT, L,.'24.

WILLIAMS v. CONGER.
Opinion of tie Court.

In the present case the parties were not in the same place;
Rabago resided in the State of Coahuila, and Blanco in the
city of Mexico; so that the making of the power in the
form of a letter was the very form allowed by the laws in
such a case. As before said, the only difference it made was
in the proof necessary to authenticate the instrument in legal
proceedings.
As to the objection that this form was not sufficient to
authorize an act of sale, but that it required a power executed
under the same solemnities as the act of sale itself, we know
of no such rule in the Spanish or Mexican law. The English
rule as to the requisites of a power to 'execute sealed instruments has no application to the case.
The eighth exception related to the admission in evidence
of Hammekin's copy of the power of attorney, ie testified
that when he purchased the land from Laguerenne, through
rriolland, the latter had no copy of the power from Rabago
to Blanco, and he (Hammekm) made it a condition that a
copy should be furnished to im; and that soon after he
received a certified copy, which he delivered to his agent,
Rose, with the other papers, and with them has been lost. He
testified, however, that he took an exact copy of this certified
copy before giving the latter to Rose, and had it yet, and it
was in evidence in the case and was found to be an exact copy
of the power fomid in the old trunk, with the exception of a
date being written in words at length in place of figures, and
an abbreviation being written in full words. This copy made
by Hammekin himself (called the "Ha m mekm copy ") is the
paper whose admission in evidence was objected to. The
plain answer to the objection is, that it was not offered nor
admitted as a muniment of title, but merely to show the fact
that there was such a paper in existence in 1837 as that found
in the trunk, which fact had a legitimate bearing on the question whether the latter was an ancient instrument. For this
purpose, it was certainly admissible.
The ninth exception related to the admission in evidence of
a copy of the deed, or act of sale, executed by Victor Blanco,
as attorney for Rabago, to laguerenne, dated Mtay 25th, 1836;

OCT4YBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

and of a copy of the power of attorney given by Laguerenne
to Priolland to sell his real estate. The copies offered in evidence by the defendants were certified copies. That of the
deed of May 25th, 1886, was taken in the city of Mexico from
the original protocol of the deed in the notarial archnves, or
records, of the deceased notary, Iffiguol Diez de Bonilla, before
whom the deed purported to be executed. It appeared by the
testimony of one Crescencio Iandgrave, a notary public of the
city of Mexico, that these archives, with those of other deceased notaries,.had been collected and placed in the public
archives of the city of Mexico, under the charge of different
notaries. ILandgrave testified that he had general charge of
said archives, and the particular charge of those of Bonilla,
whom he knew, and with whom he was intimate; dnd that he
knew Bonilla's signature appended to the different documents
3n the archives, and, i. fact, received them from Ins own hands
in his (Bonilla's) lifetime. He further testified that the protocol of the deed from Rabago, through Blanco, to Laguerenne,.

was among the archives of Bonlla, anil that he, as the custodian thereof,-made an official and duly certified copy of said
deed (which -was the copy offered in evidence); the certificate
annexed to the copy being in the words following, to wit:
"I certify and give faith that the preceding copy is faithful
and exact to the letter of the original document which exists
on folio 37 to folio -0 of the protocol of my deceased companion, Don fguel Diez de Bonilla, which I have under my'
custody in the archives of the city which is under my charge,
from whence the present was taken in order to deliver it to the
consul of the United States of the North, in'Mexico, by virtue
of judicial mandate, this 15th December, 1874,in presence of
Don Miguel Moral and Don Manuel Correo, of this vicinity.
(Between Parenthesis :) All not valid.
"[. s.]
(Signed)
OREsoEi.
InGn.&vE."
The official authority of Landgrave is authenticated by the
certificates of three other notaries, of the Governor of the Federal District, of the chief official of the Department of Foreign

WILLIAMS v. CONGER.
Opinion of the Court.

Affairs, and of the United States consul, each certifying to the
authority of the preceding.
Landgrave further testified that his brother m office, notary
public Antonio Ferreira, had charge of the records of the de-,
ceased notary Francisco Madriago, before whom the power of
attorney from Laguerenne to Priolland, before referred to,.
purports to have been executed.
A certified copy of this power of attorney, certified by Ferreira, and authenticated in the same manner as the deed to
Laguerenne, was the copy offered in evidence by the defendants, the power being dated January 10th, 1837, and its protocol being among the archives of the deceased notary Francisco
de Madriago. Tins power of attorney authorized said Priolland
to sell and dispose of all and any real estate belonging to
Laguerenne wherever situated.
It is unnecessary to examine in detail the reasons assigned
by the plaintiff for objecting to the adussion of these papers
in evidence. We think that they were properly and sufficiently
authenticated, and that the judge committed no error m admitting t'hem.
The only other exception related to the citizenship of Laguerenne. The plaintiff alleged that it was not shown that he
was entitled to convey land in Texas in May, 1837, but that
he.was disabled to do so by reason of his being a citizen of
France, and an alien to the government of Texas. The only
direct statement as to his citizenship is that contained in the
said power of attorney which he executed, and which begins
as follows: "In the city of Mexico, on the 10th day of January, 1831, before me [Madriago], a notary public, and witnesses, personally appeared Don Guillermo Lagnerenne, a
citizen, and of the commerce of this place, in whom I have
faith and know," &c. There is no testimony in the case sufficient to overthrow the presumption arising from this recital.
Hammekin says that he does not recollect whether he was an
American or a Frenchman; that in May, 1836, he was established as a merchant m the city of Mexico; that he had a
brotha. in Philadelphia much older than -himself,who was a
merchant in that city for many years. This is all the evidence

OUXIOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

on the subject. It must be received, therefore, that he was a
citizen of Mexico. As to citizens of Mexico, it is ivell ettled
that they never lost the right of disposing of their Texas lands
by the -division of the empire. Airhrt v. 3Xaneiw, 98 U. S.
491, 498, 497.
flavngg considered all the material questions raised by the
plaintiff in error, and being of opinion that he has not succeeded in showing any error in the judgment of the court
below, the same is

Affl"nmed.

WASEINGTON 10E 00. v. WEBSTER.
3RROR TO THE

I OcUIT COURT OF THE 'UTED
DISTRICT OF WM .

STATES FOR THE

Io. 150. Argued January 30, 31, 188.-Decided April 2, 1888.

In Maine, the plaintiff in a replevin suit for ice, gave a bond, with sureties,
to the defendant, m the penalty of $30,000, conditioned to prosecute the
suit to flnal judgment, and pay such damages and costs as the defendant should recover against them, "and also return and restore the same
goods and chattels in like good order and condition as when taken, in
case such shall be the final judgment." The ice was stated in the bond
to be of the value of $15,000. In the suit there was a judgment for a
return of the ice to the defendant, and for an amount of damages ascertained by the jury by allowing interest from the time the ice was taken,
on a sum found-to have been its value where and when it was taken, and
also allowing the expenses of the Jefendant in preparing to remove the
fce. The damages were paid but the ice was not returned. In a suit on
the bond, Held,
(1) The plaintiff in that suit was entitled to recover what the jury in the,
replevin suit bad found to have been the value of the "ice where
and when it was taken, with interest thereon from the date of the
verdict in the replevin suit;
(2) It was not competent for the obligors in the bond to show that the
ice was of less value than the amount stated in the writ of replevin
and the bond; but it was competent for the obligee to show-that
such value was greater;
(3) The finding of the jury in the replevin suit as to the value, of the ice
where and when it was taken, was competent and conclusive evidence, as against the obligors, of such value.

