OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

brought within the provisions of the 10th section in anry case,
when not aktualy in a public store or bonded warehouse, they
should be deemed within those provsions when, by reason of
the custody of officers of the customs, it ir impracticable to
remove them from the vessel, whether they are at the time
entered in bond or not.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH (QOM-PANY v. THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE COMMONWEALTH
OF MASSAOHUSETTS.
APPEAL FROM~ TEE CIROIT COURT OF TIM UITEfD STATES FOR
TEE DISTRICT OF

1A.SAOCHUSE=S.

No. 1325. Argued February 15, 188.-Declded Muarch 19, 1883.
The privilege conferred upon telegraph companies by Rev. Stat. § 5268
carries with it no exemption from the ordinary burdens of taxation in a
State within -whichthey may own or operate lines of telegraph.
The laws of Massachusetts impose a tax upon the Western Union Telegraph
Company on account of the property owned aud used by it within that
State, the-value of which Is to be ascertained by comparing the length of
its lines in that State with the length of its entire lines; and such a tax
is essentially an excise tax, and is not forbidden by the fact of the acceptance on the part of the company of the rights conferred on telegraph
-companies by Rev. Stat. § 6263, nor by the commerce clause of the Constitution.
The.principles established by the statutes of Massachusetts for regulating
the taxation of corporations doing business within its limits, whether
domestic or foreign, do not appear to be unfair or unjust.
A state statute which authorizes an injunction to be issued to restrain a
corporation organized under the laws of another State, whose taxes are
In arrear, from prosecuting its business within the State until the taxes
are paid, Is void so far as It assLmes to confer power upon a court to so
restrain a telegraph company which has accepted the provisions of Rev.
Stat. § 5263 from operating its lines over military and' post roads 6f the
United States.

Th ErQurr.
The bill was filed by the Attorney General of
the COmimonwealth of Massachusetts, at the relation of the

W. U. TEL. CO. v. 31ASSACHUSBTS.
Statement of the Case.

Treasurer of that State, and on behalf of the Commonwealth,
in the Supreme Judicial Court of that State on the 27th April,
1886. It averred that certain proceedings had been taken in
accordance with law and under the Statutes of that State, to
assess taxes in that State in the year 1885 upon the capital
stock of the Western Union Telegraph Company, a corporation
owning, controlling, and using, under lease, or otherwise, lines
of telegraph within that Commonwealth for purposes of business or profit. The provisions in the Constitution and laws of
Massachusetts which were relied upon are printed inthe margin.' The nature of the proceeding, in the valuation of the
21.

Extractfrom the Constitutfon of M3assachusetts.

Part 2, Ch. 1, Sect. 1, Art. 4, of the Constitution gives the Legislature
power "to Impose and levy proportional and reasonable assessments, rates
and taxes, upon all the Inhabitants of, and persons resident, and: estates
lying within the said Commonwealth," and also "to Impose and levy reasonable duties and excises upon any produce, goods, wares, merchandise and
commodities whatsoever, brought into, produced, manufactured, or being
within the same."
2. Zeractsfrom thte Public S atutes of Massachusetts.
13, SEer. 38. Every corporation chartered by the common"CHArTr
wealth, or organized under the general laws, for purposes of business or
profit, having a capital stock divided into shares, excepting banks whose
shares are otherwise taxable under this chapter, and except those specified
in sections forty-three and forty-six, shall annually, between the first and
the tenth day of May, return to the tax commissioner, under the oath of
its treagurer, a complete list of its shareholders, with their places of residence, the number of shares belonging to each on the first day of May, the
amount of the-capital stock of the corporatiQn, its place of business, the
par value and market value of the shares on said first day of Mfay. Such
return shall, In the case of stock held as collateral security, state not only
the name of the person holding the same, but also the name of the pledger
and his residence. The returns shall also contain a statement in detail of
the works, structures, real estate and machinery owned by said corporation
and subject to local taxation within the commonwealth, and of the location
and value thereof. Railroad and telegraph companies shall return the
whole length of their lines, and the length of so much-of their lines as is
without the commonwealth; other corporations required to make a return
under this section shall also return the amount., value, and location of all
works, structures, real estate, and rachnery owned by them and subject
to local taxation without the commonwealth. provided, that nothing herein

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

property ot the compa.ny A- the purposes of the -assessment of
the tax are sulciently stated-im the Report- -of the Examiner

contained shall exempt any corporation from makiag all returns required
by its charter.
" SECT. 39. The tax commissioner shall ascertain, from the returns or
otherwise,-the true market value of the shares of each corporation included
in the provisions of the preceding section, and shall estimate therefrom the
fair cash valuation of al of said shares constituting its capital stock on the
first day of May next preceding,, which shall be taken as the true value of
its corporate franchise for the purposes of this chapter. H6 shall also ascertain and determine the value and amount of all real estate, and machinery
owned by each corporation, and subjectrto local taxation, and of thedeductions provided in the following section; and for this purpose he may take
the amount or Value at which such real estate and machinery are assessed
at the place where the same are located as the true amount or value; but
such local assessment shall not be conclusive of the true amount or value
thereof.
-S cr. 40. Every corporation embraced in the previsions of section
thirty-eight shall annually pay a tax upon its corporate franchise at a valuatioii thereof equal to the aggregate value of the shares in its capital stock,
as determined in the preceding section, after making the deductiens providea for in this section, at a rate determined by an apportionment of the
whole amount of money to be raised by taxation upon property in the com-,
monwealth durng the same current year, as returned by the assessors of'
the several cities and towns under section eighty-six of chapter eleven,.
upon the aggregate valuation of all the ities and towns for the preceding
year, as returned under sections fifty-four and fifty-flve of said chapterprovide,. that in case the return from any city or town is not received prior
to the twentieth day of August, the amount raised by taxation in said city
or town the preceding year, as certified to the secretary of- the Qommonwealth, may be. adopted for the purpose of this determination; 'and Protided; further, that the amount of tax assessed upon polls the preceding
year, as certified to the secretary, may be takenas the amount of poll tax
to be deducted from the whrole amount to be raised by taxation, for the
purpose of ascertaining the alhount to be raised by taxation upon property.
From the valuation, ascertained and determined as aforesaid, there shall.be
in case of railroad: and.telegraph, companies, whose lines
deducted, -irst,
extend beyond the limits of the commonwealth, such portion of the whole
-valuation of their capital stock,-ascertamed as aforesaid, as is proportignal
to the length of that. part of their line lying without-the commonwealth,
and also an amount .equal to the value' as determined by the tax commissioner, of their real.estate andnachinery located andsubject to local taxation witinn the cbmmonwealth. second, in case of other corporationS, included in section thity-eight of this chapter, an amount equal to the value

W. U. TEL. CO. v. ]MASSACHUSETTS.
Statement of the.Case.

The bill averred that the taxes had not been paid, and were
still due and a-wing to the Commonwealth, and prayed the
as determined by the tax commissioner, of their real estate and machinery,
subject to local taxation, wherever situated. proided, that, whenever the
charter of a corporation provides a different method of ascertaining the
valuation of its corporate franchise for the purposes of this chapter,
the same shall be ascertained In the method provided in such charter."
"SnCr. 42. Every corporation or association chartered or organized elsewhere, which owns, or controls and uses, under lease or otherwise, a line of
telegraph within this commonwealth, shall make all the returns prescribed
In section thirty-eight to be made by telegraph companies within the commonwealth, excepting the list of its shareholders; and shall annually pay a
tax at the same rate, and to be ascertained and determined in the same
manner as is provided in section forty; And all telegraph lines within the
commonwealth controlled and used by such corporation or association.
shall, for the purposes of this dhapter, be taken and considered as part of
its own lines."
"SxCr. 53. The tax commissioner shall, as soon as may be after the
first Monday in August in each year, notify the treasurer of each corporation, company, copartnership, or association liable thereto, of the amount
of its taxunder sections twenty-five, forty, forty-two, forty-five,.forty-seven,
fifty, and fifty-two, to become due andpayalle to thetreasurer of the common'wealth within thurty days from.the date of such notice: jrovided, that it shall
not be due and payable earlier than the first day of November. Such notice
shall alo state that withih ten days after the dAte thereof the said corporation, company, copartnership, or association may apply for a correction of
said tax, and be heard thereon before'the board of appeal hereinafter established.
"SEr.
51. Any corporation, company, copartnership, or association
taxable under the provisions of sections forty, forty-two, forty-three, fortyfive, forty-seven, fifty, and fifty-two, neglecting to make the returns required
by this chapter, or refusing or neglecting, when required thereto, to submit
to the examinations provided for therein, shall forfeit two per cent upon
the par value of its capitalstock; all which penalties may be recovered by
an action of tort, brought In the name of the commonwealth, either in the
county of Suffolk or in the county where the corporation is located. If any
corporation, company, copartnership, or association falls to pay the taxes
requred to be paid to the treasurer of the commonwealth under the prowsions of said sections forty, forty-two, forty-three, Iorty-five, forty-sev n,
fifty, fifty-one, and fifty-two, he may forthwith commence an action of
contract In his own name, as treasurer, for-the recovery of the same, ith
interest at the rate of twelve per cent per annum until the sime are paid. All
penalties under this section, and under sections seven, forty-seven, fifty,
and fifty-two, may also be enforced, and all taxes under said sections forty,
forty-two, forty-three, forty-flve, forty-seven, fifty, fifty-one, and fifty-two,

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

court "to order and decree that said sum due for taxes as
aforesaid shall be paid to said Commonwealth by the said cormay also be collected by information brought in the supreme judicial court
at the relation of the treasurer of the commonwealth, and upon such information the court may issue an injunction restraining the further prosecution
of the business of the corporation, company, copartnership, or association,
until ald such taxes due or penalties incurred shall be paid, with interest at
the rate aforesaid, and costs. In any proceeding under this section the
certificate of the tax commissioner or his deputy shall be competent evidence of all determinations made and notices given by 1pum, and of all values,
amounts, and other facts required to be fixed or ascertained by him under
this chapter."
"SxcT. 61. Any party aggrieved by the decision of the taz commissioner
arising under the provisions of sections twenty-five to fty-eight Inclusive,
excepting corporations.named in section forty-six, may apply to the board
of appeal constituted under the provisions of the following section for a
correclAon of the same.
" SnoT. 62. The treasurer and the auditor of the commonwealth, together with one member of the council to be named by the governor, shall
cdnstitnte a board of appeal, to which board any party aggrieved by a decision- of the tax commissioner upon any matter arising under this chapter,
from his decision upon which an appeal is given, may apply within ten days
after notice of such decision for a correction of the same. Upon such
appeal said board shall, as soon as may be, give a hearing to .such party,
and shall thereupon decide the matter In question, and notify the tax commissioner and the party appealing; and such decision shall be final and conclusive as to the rights of the parties affected, although payments may have
:been made as required by the decision of the tax commissioner appealed
from. Any over-payment of tax, determined by the decision of said board
of appeal, shall be reimbursed from the treasury of the commonwealth."
,, CxrPTR 109, SEno.oi 1. Every company incorporated for the transmission of intgligence by electricity shall possess the powers and privileges, and be subject to the duties, restrictions, and liabilities, prescribed
in this chapter.
,, SEcT. 2. Each company may, under the provisions of the following
section, construct lines of electria telegraph upon and along the highways
and public roads, and across any waters within the commonwealth, by the
erection of the posts, piers, abutments, and other fixtures (except bridges)
necessary Lo sustain the wires of its lines; but shall not incommode the
public use of highways or public roads, nor endanger or interrupt the navigation of any waters.
" SEcr. 8. The mayor and aldermen or selectmen of a place through
which the lines of.a company are to pass shall give the company a writing
specifying where the posts maybe located, the kind of posts, and the height
.t
which aild the places where the wires may run. After the erection of

W. U. TEL. CO.

.

ASSACHUSETTS.

Statement of the Case.

poration,.with interest thereon, together with the costs of this
information, and to grant unto your informant a writ of injunction, issuing out of and under the seal of tins honorable
court, to be directed to the said corporation and its officers,
agents, and servants, commanding them and each of them
absolutely to desist and refrain from the further prosedution
of the business of said corporation until said sums due to the
said Commonwealth as aforesaid for taxes as aforesaid shall
have been fully paid, with interest and costs," and for further
and other relief.
On motion of the defendant the cause was, on May 13,
186, removed to the Circuit Court of the Uiiited States, and
on the 29th day of the same May the answer of 'the defendant
was tiled in that court.
The answer set forth that the defendant was a corporation
organized in the State" of New York, and under the laws of
that State; that it owned, controlled, and used many lines of
telegraph in various parts of the United States, and in the
State of 'Massachusetts, largely in that State over and along
the post roads of the United States which had been declared
to be such and over, under, and across navigable waters of the
United States in or adjoining that State, and that on the.
5th of June, 186-7, it had accepted the provisions and obligations of the act of July 24, 1866, 14 Stat. 221, c. 230 [now
Rev. Stat. § 5263] ; 1 that- thereby it became entitled to construct and maintain its lines over the post roads and over,
under, and across the navgdble waters of the United States,
and became bound to transmit the telegrams of the United
States over its lines at rates to be flxed by the Postmaster
General, and that no state legislation could prevent its occupation of post roads for that purpose; that its lines extend to
and from Mgssachusetts to other States. and to Washington,
and connect with the lines of other companies doing business
the lines, havfng first given the company or its agents opportunity to be
heard, they may direct any alteration in the location or erectio61 of the posts,
piers, or abutments, and in the height of the wires. Such specifications
and decisions shall be recorded in the records of the city or town."
1 See infra, page 547, for this statute.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

in.this country and outside of the United States. and beyond
the seas; that while it was operating its lines m Massaceusetts it was called upon to make .returns of its capital stock,
&c. to the tax commissioner of the State according to the
provisions of % 38, 39, 40, 41, and 42 of c. 13 of the :Public
Statutes of the State, and made a return as follows:

1WEST-mN

Umox T=EGpAPE Cowpm~r.
"TnA suER's OFrxon, Nw Yorne, Tune 25, 1885.
HEon. Daniel A. Gleason, tax commissioner of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
"Sm. I, Roswell H. Rochester, treasurer of the Western
Union Telegraph Company, hereby return that on the first
day of May, 1885, said corporation held its principal place of
business at the city of lNew York.
"Its capital stock was ..
........
.
$80,000,000 00
The whole number of its shares was 800,000.
The par value of each share was . . .
100 00
The market value of each share was . . .
59 371
The value of the real estate owned by the corporation without the State of Massachusetts was ........
.........
3,058,933,82.
The value of the real estate owned by the corporation within the State of Massachusetts
was nothing.
The total number of miles of line, owned or
leased was 146,052.60.
Of which the number of miles (not on post
roads of the United States and excluding
2,334.55. miles which were on post roads
of the United States) within the State of
Massachusetts was 498.50.
Total property, 800,000 shares, at $59.37Tper share .....
............
47,500,000 00
This includesReal estate ....
..........
. ..
3,058,933 82
Two hundred and nine three-fourth shares
held by this company unissued, at .59.3'j
12,453 90

W. U. TEL. CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Statement of the Case.

Stofks in other companies outside of our system, not included in above statement of
$8,773,629 70
miles of line ............
. .
Balance value of 146,052.60 miles of line . 35,654989 58
Value, at same rate, of said 498.50 miles as
the valuation of the corporate franchise of
said company for taxation under the laws
121,695 97
of Massachusetts ..
.........
...
"This return includes. the lines and property of 'the
American Union Telegraph Company, the Franklin
Telegraph Company, the Mutual Union Telegraph Company,
and the Gold and Stock Telegraph Company as part of the
Western Union lines.
"Respectfully yours,

R. H. ROCHESTER, T-eamr."
The answer then set forth the action of the tax commissioner upon tns return and respecting the valuation of the
property of the company for the purposes of taxation 1; and
continued:
"And this respondent does not deny but admits that its
property in said State of Massachusetts is subject to taxation
the same as other property, and that it may be taxed in a
proper way thereon, yet it respectfully submit and avers that
this respondent does not derive its existence from the laws of
said State, or derive the right to have and exercise its said
franchises, rights, and privileges from said State, or hold them
subject to its control, and that said franchise tax is clearly not
a tax on its property in any legal sense, and cannot be held
valid as such; that it is in the nature of an excise on the
exercise of all the franchises, rights, and privileges enjoyed by
this respondent in the conduct of its business, and a tax on its
operations in such exercise; that, while it is claimed by the.
officers of said State and by said attorney general that the
laws nnposing said tax are founded on the alleged right of
said State to refuse to tins respondent the right or permission

I:For these proceedings see the Report of the Examiner znfra.

pp. 539, 542.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

to transaot its business or exercise its functions, franchises,
rights, and privileges within said State, except for such price
and on such terms and conditions, including the payment of
such taxes as said State may see fit to prescribe and assess,
and to compel the performance of, and to exclude this respondent from such transaction or exercise if the same are. not performed and obeyed;
"Yet this respondent avers that said franchise tax has not
and cannot have this or any legal foundation, and that it
includes and is a tax or assessment on the rights, privileges,
and franchises granted and secured to this respondent by the
United States by the said act of Congress, and on the use
thereof by this respondent as an instrument of commerce and
as a government agent for the transmission o. public business
by means thereof, and on its operation in said State, which
said State cannot limit, control, refuse, or tax.
"That even if said tax could in any form be so properly
levied and assessed on the use of such rights and privileges
for other purposes, which this respondent denies, it is not only
impossible in this case to indicate or designate the portion of
the burden of said franchise tax on said use as an instrument
of commerce and as a government agent or on any use for
other purposes, but that the mode of valuation thereof specifically prescribed by said act does in terms include and designate as a s'ibject of taxation the franchise exercised on that
portion of this respoudent's lines constructed, maintained, and
used in the exercise and enjoyment of said rights and privileges, and that the said tax bears upon the whole machine
without distinction and indistinguishably as well upon the
faculty of receiving and transmitting the messages of the
government of said United States as on that of receiving and
transmitting messages of individuals, and as well upon the
faculty of receiving and transmitting through said State messages'sent and received in and for the purposes of foreign and
interstate commerce, as upon that of receiving and transmitting other messages wholly within said State.
"And this respondent further avers that if said franchise
tax could in form be legally so levied and assessed as to oper.

W. U. TEL. CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Statement of the Case.

ate upon only something legally subject to taxation: by -said
State by.any mode of estimate or valuation resembling that
prescribed by said laws, based upon a valuation of its shares,
deducting real estate locally taxed in said State, it would be
and is unjust and not proportional not to deduct from said
valuation the amount of real estate owned by and subject to
local taxation and actually taxed out of said State, both because the laws of said State allow such deduction from the
valuation under said laws for ike taxation of the franchiseg
of other corporations organized or chartered within and doing
business within and without said State, and because otherwise
said State would assume and does assume 3n effect to tax and
assess real estate situated in and subject to taxation and
actually taxed by other States and jurisdictions."
The plaintiff filed a replication to this answer; whereupon
the cause was referred to Francis S. Fiske, Esq., '1 as Examiner,
to take and report the evidence of both parties therein, and
such questions of law arising thereon as either party shall
desire." The Examiner's report was filed May 1,1887, as
follows:
"I, Francis S. Fiske, having been appointed by the court a
special examiner in the above-named case, report"That the information was filed in the Supreme Judicial
Court of the State April 27,18.86, and-removed to this court
by the defendant; that the defendant is a telegraph company
organized under the laws of the State of Nfew 1ork before the
passage of the act of the Congress of the United States of
July twenty-fourth, eighteen hundred and sixty-six, entitled
'An act to aid in the construction of telegraph lines and to
secure to the government the use of the same for postal, military, and other purposes' (Rev. Stat. § 5263, et seg.), and is
a corporation organized for purposes of business and profit,
having a capital stock divided into shares, which filed with the
Postmaster-General of the United States its written acceptance of the restrictions and "obligations required by law in
accordance with said act on or about the twelfth day of June,
1867, and has ever since been in existence and operation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

"That on and before and since the ffist day-of :May, 1885,
it has owned, controlled, and used, under lease or otherwise, a
line or lines of telegraph within said Comonwealth as part
of a system of 146,052 and A&miles of line extending throughout the United States, part of Canada, and to Cuba and England by submarine ocean cable, connecting with lines owned
and establighed by the government of the United States foi
public purposes.
"1That on the sixteenth day of September, in said year 1885,
after notice had been given to said Commonwealth of said
filing and of other matters mentioned in the notice hereto
appended, as below stated, and a return made by said company
under section 42 of chapter 13 of the Public Statutes of said
Commonwealth, copies of which notice and return are appended, [see pp. 536, 537, supra,] the tax commissioner of
said Commonwealth, in the manner required by its laws, estimated the fair cash valuation of all the shares constituting the
capital stock of said corporation on said -first day of Ilay at
$11,500,000, and allowed as credits to said corporation out of
said $41(,500,000 the sum or value of $8,786,076.

For 2091 shares held by the company unissued,
..
..........
at $59.38' i....
For 'stock in other companies outside of its system not included in above statement of miles
...
..............
of line .....

$12,453 90
8,73,622 TO
$8,786,076 60

"And determined the total number (or whole length) of the
miles of line of said defendant to be 146,052.60 as aforesaid
and 143,219.55 miles thereof, which included said cables, to be
beyond the limits of said Commonwealth.
"1That the rate determined under the fortieth section of
said thirteenth chapter of said Public Statutes for the taxation
of the corporate franchises therein mentioned was, in and -for
the year 1885, $14.14 for each $1000 of valuation.
"That said commissioner, being of opinion that the valuation of the corporate franchise of said defendant for taxation

W. U. TEL. CO. v. M[ASSACHUSETTS.
Statement of the Case.

by said Commonwealth was to be ascertained by dedneting
$171500,000 00
............
from said .....
The said: ...
.............
....
8,786,076 00
Thus leaving ...
...........
..
38,713,924 00
And then taking as the total number of
said line or lines ....
.........
146,052.60
And as the number thereof m said Commonwealth ...
.............
...
2,833.05,
without regard to the question whether any thereof were
or were not on post roads, declared such by law, or navigable
streams or waters of the United States, considered that the
valuation of the corporate franchise of said defendant subject
to be taxed in said Commonwealth at said rate was 14"
of
said 838,713,921, or in all ($1150,952) seven hundred and fifty
thousand nine hundred and fifty-two dollars, and assessed a
tax thereon of ($10,618.46) ten thousand six hundred and
eighteen and T% dollars to said company.
" That in fact more than 2334.55 miles of said line within
.said Commonwealth, part of said 2833.05 miles, were on, over,
under, or across said post roads-that is to say, railroads or
highways made by law such post roads-or such streams or
waters.
" That before and during said year and since said defendant
has continually transmitted over said lines on said post roads,
streams, or waters between the several departments of the
United States government and their officers and agents or
as provided by § 221 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States, at rates fixed by the Postmaster-General, as required
by said act of Congress or title LXV of said section, telegraphic communications and messages for the government of
the United States, including those for the signal service relating to the weather,.storms, etc., and also commercial and business messages for purposes of foreign and interstate commerce
from and to, into, through, and over and between said State
of M[assachusetts and all the other-States and Territories of
the United States, the city of Washington and the District of
Columbia, and to and from foreign countries by ocean sub-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

marine cables both for said government and for many private
individuals and corporations resident and located as well out
of as-n said State.
"That it .simpostible -forsaid company to determine -what
portion of any sums received by it was received for services
performed in said State in the transmission through the same
or any part thereof of messages or communications received
or delivered out of it or not on lines over said post roads,
streajms, or waters, but that the largest part, or approximately
seventy per cent, of said- sums was for messages received or
delivered out of said State.
"That said defendant, on said first day of :May, 1885, owned
a large amount of real estate located and subject to local taxation out of said State of Massachusetts, on which there was
assessed and paid by it a large amount (over $48,000) of taxes,
besides other taxes.
"That the amount or value of said real estate was not
clearly shown, but it was shown that the cost of land and
buildings thereon owned by the defendant and of buildings
so owned on land not so owned out of said State was over
83,000,000; and it was agreed by the said parties that if it
appeared and became material upon any final decision in this
case to fix the amount or value of said real estate, or the taxes
thereon, or the amount received for any class of messages, and
it was not agreed upon by them, t1e same should be determined on further hearmg by the exaunner.
"That no deduction or allowance was made in assessing said
tax or in ascertaining the valuation of saad franchise for taxation as aforesaid on account of said real estate, land, or buildings, or the taxes paid thereon, or for anything not above
specifically stated.
"That notice was duly given to said defendant of said tax,
and demand made therefor as required by said chapter, but said
defendant protested a,ainst said assessment and tax and declined
to pay the same; whereupon this information was filed."
The cause was heard on these pleadings and upon the report of the Exanuner, and the court on the 28th lNo'ember,
1887,made a final decree therein:

W. U. TEL. CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Argunent for Plaintif in Error.

" That the facts set forth in the examiner's report filed in
this cause are true.
11That on those facts the method of valuation, assessment,
and taxation provided by the laws of Massachusetts upon the
franchise of the defendant corporation is not, as was claimed
and contended by said defendant, illegal and unconstitutional
under the constitution and laws either of the State of Massachusetts or the United States-that is 'to say, either under
the Constitution of the United States, Article I, section 8;
Article I[I, section 2; Article VI, Amendments V and XIV;
Revised Statutes of the United States, sections 5263, 5264,
5265, 5266, 5267, 5268, 5269, including a revision and consolidation of the act of July. 21, 1866, chapter 230, accepted by
the defendant before the revision of section 221 ; or under the
constitution of said State, part I, art. X; part II, chapter I,
section IV; or chapter 13 of its Public Statutes, but was and
is in conformity with and authorized by said constititions and
laws, and that therefore the sum clanned by the plaintiff to
be due for taxes, to wit, $10,618.46, be paid to said State by
said corporation, with interest thereon, and that an injunction
shall be issued out of and under the seal of this court, directed
to said corporation and its officers, agents, and servants, commanding them and each of them absolutely to desist and
refrain from the further prosecution of the business of said
corporation until said sums due to the said Commonwealth as
aforesaid for taxes as dforesaid shall have been fully paid, with
interest and costs, unless the said sum is paid by said defendant as aforesaid within thirty days from the entry hereof."
From this decree the defendant appealed.
&t. Ge*re S H ak, (with whom were A&2
WllTzrd Brown on the brief).
WVZI&and I.

Chzr0ke V.

I. Telegraph companies, which have accepted the act" of
Congress, are, as to government business, government agencies,
and so far as a state tax on a company is on, or affects, the
means employed by the government of the United States to
exerci p its constitutional powers, it is void. Weskm ni io

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Citations for Defendant in Error.

Teegrapk Co. v. T]xaq, 105 U. S. 460; Osborn v. Bank
of the United Stas, 9 Wheat. '738; MY'ion, Pacifio _qiaroad
v..Peniston, 18 Wall. 5; .MfoCullook v. Ifaryland, 4 Wheat.
816; Bank of Commerce v. -Yew York, 2 Black, 620; TWeston.
v. Carlston,2 Pet. 449; Pensacola Telegralh Co. v. Western
Union Telegraph Co., 96 U. S. '1; 2fayor v. Charlton, 36
Georgia, 460; TVabash c. 1aiwqy Co. v. inois, 118
U. S. 557; F wrgo v. 2f hga4., 121 TI. S. 230; Pickard
v. Pullman Southern Car Co., 117 U.. S. 84, Manufacturers'
Is.
Co. v. Loud, 99 Mass. 146; Eamilton, 2Manufactursng
Co. v. .Massachusetts, 6 Wa~l. 632; 1ProvideDt Institutibn v.
X sa7husetts, 6 Wall. 611; Portland Bank v. .4pthorp,
12 Mass. 252; Commn wealth v. Peol's -Five Cent Savings
Bank, 5 Allen, 428; Bank of Augusta v. _Barle, 13 Pet.
519; Attorney GeneraZ v. Bay State -Mining Co., 99 Mass.
148; Gleasom v. .MorKay, 134 Mass. 4-19; Gloucester Ferry Co.
v. Pennylvanza, 114: U. S. 196, Philadephia Steamship Co.
v. Pennsylvania,122 U. S. 3.26; People v. Meaer, 100 U. S.
539 ;- Robbins v. S Selby County Taxing -District,120 U. S.489.
IL The omission to deduct from the total valuation the
real estate located and sub3ect to local taxation in other
States, renders the tax excessive and invalid. The Delaware
ZailroadTax, 18 Wall. 206, Santa 07ara County v.Southern
Pacifl Railroad, 118 U. S. 394, 1Th5y v. Buwnham, 15 Mass.
144; Stetson, v. Kemptom 13 Mass. 272.
Mr. An'dew T "aterman, Attorney General .of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, and .M, Frensry .Bliss, Assistant Attorney General of that State, cited. Portland Bank
v. Apthorp, 12 Mass. 252; Commonwealth v. Savings Bank,
5 Allen, 428; Oommonwedth v. Jamilton, .Manuf. Co.,
12 Allen, 298, 305, 309; Queen v. Arnaud,. 9 Q. B. 806,
817; Utica v. hurchill, 33 N. Y. 161, 237; "Fan Allen v.
Assessors, 3 Wall. 573 ; Attorney General v. Bay State .ining Co., 99 Mass. '148; Bank of Commerce v. .Few-Fork, 2
Black, 620, 630, -DelawareBailroad Tax Case, 18 Wall. 206,
225; State Tax on .dilway Gross Reespts, 15 Wall. 28,1,293;
Wabask &o. Railroadv llinos, 118 U. S.55-7, 594; Sherlock

W.

U. TEL. CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.

Opinion of the Court.
. Alling, 93 U. S. 99, .Munn v. 9llinois, 94 U. S. 113; £?i-ago, Burlington,&c. 1?ailroaJv. Iowva, 94 U. S. 155 ; Paul v.
Tihrginia,8 Wall. 168; Gloucester .Fe7Ty Co. v. -Pennsylvania,
114 U. S. 196, 209; Bailroad Co. v. .Penison,18 WaJI. 5, 34;
OommoweaZ1, v. lancasterSavings Ban7, 123 M[ass. 493, 495;
I=. Co. v.
W'oodruf v Parham,8 Wall. 123; .iAanfacturers'
Loud, 99 "Mass.146; Oliver v. Tashington .XilS, 11 Allen,
268, 279; Hfamilton, Co. v. 2fassac/&usetts, 6 Wall. 632, 639;
DicX'ey v.-Trnpike 1oad Co., 7 Dana, 113; Thomson v. _PacifiJ Railroad Corniyany, 9 Wall. 579, 590; Fargo v. .3ichigan, 121 U. S. 230; Cooley v. -PAiladelhka,12 How. 299;
Zxa .pqrte .tciVeei, 13 W01l. 236; Osborne v. .Mobile, 16 Wall.
479, 481; Xoc'ullocA. v. .M2aryand,4 Wheat. 316,429; -Dwight
v. Boston, 12 Allen, 316; S. C. 90 Am. Dec. 149; Bailroad
Corajanyv. TulWr, 17 Wall. 560, 568.
m JusTICE MiLT.n

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to- the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Massachusetts.
The action was commenced in the Supreme Judicia1 Court
of Massachusetts, sitting in equity, by an information on
behalf of the Commonwealth, by its Attorney General, at
thie relation of the treasurer thereof, Alanson W. Beard. It
was afterwards removed, upon motion of the defendant, the
Western Union Telegraph Company, into the Circuit Court of
the United States. The object of the information was to
enforce the collection of a tax levied by the proper authorities
of the State upon the telegraph company, and to enjoin it
from the further operation of its telegraph lines within the
territorial limits of the Commonwealth until that tax was
paid.
The defendant company is a corporation organized under
the laws of the State of New York, having its capital stock
divided into shares. The tax assessed by.the treasurer of the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts was based upon an estimate
of $750,952 as the taxable value of the shares of the corporation apportioned to that State, the rate of taxation having
VOL. cxIv-

35

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

been detrnined foi'that year, 1885, at $14.14 for'aud upon
each $1000 of valuation. The mode by which tins taxable
valuation was arrived at was this: The treasurer ascertained
from the officers of the telegraph company that the valuation
of its entire capital stock was $47,500,000, from which were
deducted the credits proper to be allowed in determining the
assessable value, leaving $38,713,92 as the total valuation of.
said stock liable to taxation. It was then ascertained that
the total number of miles of -line of said corporation in all the
States and Territories of this country was 146,052.60, of which
143,219.55 were without the limits of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts, leaving 2833.05 miles within its boundaries.
Taking these figures, the treasurer of the State assessed th3
value of that portion of the capital stock of this company
which, under this calculation, would fall within the'Commonwealth of Massachusetts, at the sum of $750,952. The amount
thus arrived at, at the rate of $14.14: upon each $1000 of valuation, produced the sum of $10,618.46 as the amount of the tax
claimed to be due and payable to the treasurer of said Commonwealth by that corporation. This sum was demanded of
the telegraph company, but it refused to pay the same.
The answer of the defendant corporation set up that of its
2833.05 miles of line within the State of Massachusetts more
than 2334.55 miles were over, under, or across post-roads,
made such by the United States, leaving only 498.50 miles not
over or along such post-roads, on which the company offered
to pay the proportion of the tax assessed according to mileage
by the state authorities.
The main ground on which the telegraph company resisted
the payment of the tax alleged to be due, .nd on which probably the case was removed from the state court into the Circuit Court of the United States, is that it is a violation of the
rights conferred on the company by the act of July 94, 1866,
now Title I1X , §. 5263 to 5269 of the Revised Statutes. The
defendant alleges that it had accepted the provisions of that
law, and filed a notification of such acceptance with the Postmaster General of the United States June 8, 1867. The argument is, therefore, that by virtue of § 5263 the company has a

W. U. TEL. CO. 9. MASSACHUSETTS.
Opinion of the Court.

right to exercise its functions of telegraphing over so much of
its lines as is connected -with the military and post-roads of the
United States which have been declared to be such by law
without being subject to taxation therefor by the state authorities. That section reads as follows:
"oSEc. 5263. Any telegraph company now organized, or
which may hereafter be organized under the laws of any State,
shall have the right to construct, maintain, and operate lines
of telegrapl through and over any portion of the. public domain of the United States, over and along any of the military
or post-roads of the United States which have been or may
hereafter. be declared such by law, and over, under, or across
the navigable streams or waters of the United States; but
such lines of telegraph shall be"so constructed and maintained
as not to obstruct the navigation of such streams and. -waters,
or interfere with the ordinary travel on such military or postroads."
It is urged that this section, upon its acceptance by this corporation or any of like character, confers a right to do the
business of telegraphing which is transacted over the lines so
constructed'over or along such post-roads, without liability to
taxation by the State. The argument is very much pressed
that it is a tax upon the franchise of the company, which franchise being derived from the United.States by virtue .of the
statute above recited cannot be taxed'by a State, and counsel
for appellant occasionally speak of the tax authorized by the
law of Mfassachusetts upon this as well as all other corporations doing business within its territory, whether organized
under its laws or not, as a tax upon their franchises. But by
whatever name it may be called, as described in the laws of
Massachusetts, it is essentially an excise upon the capital
of the corporation. The laws of that Commonwealth attempt
to ascertain the just amount which any corporation engaged
in business within its limits shall pay as a contribution to the
support of its government upon the amount and value of the
capital so employed by it therein.
The telegraph company, which is the defendant here, de.
rived its franchise to be a corporation and to exercise the func,

OCTOBER TER-M, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of telegraphing from the State of NTew York.. It owes
its existence, its capacity to contract, its right to sue and be
sued, and to exercise the business of telegraphy, to the laws
of the State under which it is organized. But the privilege
of running the lines of its wires "t hrough and over any portion of the public domain of the United.States, over and along
any of the military or post-roads of the United States,
and over, under, or across- the tavigable streams or -waters of
the United States," is granted to it by the ac" of Congress.
This, however, is merely a permassive statute, and there is no
expression in it which implies that this perlmssion to extend its
lines along roads not built or owned by the United States,
or over and under navigable streams, or over bridges not built
or owned by the Federal government, carries with it any
exemption from the ordinary burdens of taxation.
While the State could not interfere by any specific statute
to .prevent a corporation from placing its lines along these
post-roads, or stop the use of them after they were placed
there, nevertheless the company receiving the benefit of the
laws of the State for the protection of its property and its
rights is liable to be taxed upon its real or personal property
as any other person would be. It never could have been intended by the Congress of the United States, in conferring
upon a corporation of one State the authority to enter the
territory of any other State and erect its poles and lines therein,
to establish the proposition that such a company owed no obedience to the lais of the State into which it thus entered,, and
was under no obligation to pay its fair.proportion of the taxes
necessary to its support.
In the case of TelegrapA
'
Company v. Texas, 105 U. S.460,
this question was very fully considered, and while a tax imposed upon every telegram passing over its lines, whether
entirely within the State or coming from without its limits,
or going from the State out of it, was held to be -oid so faW
as related to messages passing -through more than one State,
as an 'interference with or a regulation of commerce and
-with the act of Congress we have just been coniidering, it was
distinctly pointed out that if it could be ascertained what tle-

1W. U. TEL. CO. v. MJASSACHUSETTS.
Opinion of the Court.

grams were confined wholly within the State a tax on those
might be imposed by it.
In that case the Chief Justice, delivering the opinion of the
court, said:
"The Western Union Telegraph Company having accepted
the restrictions and obligations of this provision by Oongress,
occupies in Texas the position of an instrument of foreign
and interstate commerce, and of a government agent .for the
transmission of messages on public business. Its property in
the State is subject to taxation the same as other property,
and it may undoubtedly be taxed in a proper way on account
of its occupation and its business. The precise question now
presented is whether the power to tax its occupation can be
exercised by placing a specific tax on each message sent out of
the State, or sent by public officers on the business of the
United States." pp. 464-, 465.
This authority of the government gives to this telegraph
company, as well as to all others of a similar character who
accept its provisions, the right to run their lines over the roads
and bridges which have been declared to be post-roads of the
United States. If the principle now contended for be sound
every railroad in the country should beexempt from taxation'
because they have all been declared to be pos+-roads; and the
same reasoning would apply with equal force to every bridge
and navigable stream throughout the land. And if they were
not exempt from the-burden of taxation simply because they
were post-roads, they would be so relieved whenever a telegraph company chose to make use-of one of these roads or
bridges along or over which to run its lines. It was to provide against the recognition of such a prinmcle that this court,
in the case above cited, while holding that telegrams themselves coming from without a State or sent out of it as a part
of their conveyance could not be taxed by the State specifically, nevertheless used the language that "its property in the
State is subject to taxation the same as other property, and
it may undoubtedly be taxed -in a proper way on account of
its occupation and its business."
A still stronger case in the. same direction is that of Rai

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

road Company v. _Peniton, 18 Wall. 5. The plaintiff in that
action, -the Union Pacific Railroad Company, was incorporated
under a law of the United States. The State of Nebraska,
under a revenue law passed by its .legislature, undertook tQ.
lay a tax upon the property of that company which was-usedor embraced within the limits of its territory, upon a valuation
of $16,000 per mile. The property thus rated and taxed consisted of its road-bed, depots, stations, MgrapA po~, wire&,
bridges, etc. It will be here observed that a part of the valution on which this tax was levied was made up of the telegraph poles and wires belonging to the company.
The argument was pressed in that case that the railroad
company held its franchises from the government of the
United States, and that its property could not be taxed by
the State, but this court held otherwise, and M the opinion
used this language:
"It Is often a difficult question whether a tax imposed by a
State does in fact invade the domain of the general government, or interfere with its operations to such an extent, or in
such a manner, as to render it unwaranted. It cannot bethat a state tax which remotely affects the efficient exercise df
a Federal power is for that reason alone inhibited by the Constitution. To hold that would be to deny to the States all
power to tax persons or property. Every tax levied by a State
withdraws from the reach of Federal taxation a portion of the
property from which it is taken, and to that extent diminishes
the sulbject upoii which Federal taxes may be laid. The States
are. and they must ever be, co-existent with the national
government. N[either may destroy the other. Hence the
-Federal Constitution must receive a practical construction. Its
limitations and its implied prohibitions must not be extended
so far as to destroy the necessary powers of the States, or
prevent their efficient exercise." pp. 30, 31.
The case of Thomon v. _Paczc
ilroad Co., 9 Wall. 5-79,
is then cited, where it was held that the property of that
company was not exempt from state taxation, though their
railroad was a part of a system of roads constructed under
the authority and direction of the United States, and largely

W. U. TEB.

CO. u. MASSACHUSETTS.
Opinion of the Court.

for the uses and .to serve the purposes.of the general govern.
ment. The court further said:
". very large proportion of the property within the States
is employed in execution of the.powers of the government.
It belongs to governmental agents, and it is not only used,
but it is necessary for their agencies. United States mails,
troops, and munitions of war are carried upon almost every
railroad. TelegrapA ZiHze are employed in the national ser-vice. So are steamboats, horses, stage-coaches, foundries,
ship-yards, and'multitudes of manufacturing establishments.
They are the property of natural persons or of corporations,
who are agents or instruments of the general government,
and they are the hands by which the objects of the government are attained. Were they exempt from liability to contribute to the revenue of the States it is manifest the state
governments would be paralyzed. While it is-of the utmost
importance that all the powers vested by the Constitution of
the United States in the general government should be preserved in fall efficiency, and while recent events have called
for the most unembarrassed -exercise of many of those powers,
it has never been decided tdat state taxation of such property
is impliedly prohibited." p. 83.
In Yalional Bank v. CommonweatA, 9 Wall. 353, which
was a case of a tax levied upon the shares of a national bank,
the same objection in regard to a tax by state authority was
pressed upon the court, but this court said that the principle
of exemption of Federal agencies from state taxatibn has a.
limitation growing out of the necessity upon which the principle is founded. "That limitation is, that the agencies of the
Federal government are only exempted from state legislation,
so far as that legislation may interfere with or impair their
efficiency in. performing the functions by which they are
designed to serve that government. Any other rule would
convert a principle foundect-alone in the necessity of securing
to the government of the United States the means of exercm
ing its legitimate powers into an unauthorized and .unjustifiable invasion of the rights of the States. . . . So of the
banks. They are subject to the laws of the State, and are

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

governed in their daily course of business far more by the
laws of the State than of the nation. All their contracts are
governed and construed by state laws. Their acquisition-and
transfer of property, their right to collect their debts, and
their liability to be sued .for debts, are all based on state law.
It is only when the state law incapacitates the banks from discharging their duties to the government that it becomes unconstitutional. We do -not see the remotest probability of
this, in their being required to pay the tax which their stockholders owe to the State for the shares of their capital stock.,
when the law of the Fed~ral government authorizes the tam"
p. 362.
The ax in the present case, though nominally upon the
shares of the capital stbck of the company, is in effect a tax
upon that organization on account of property owned and
used by it in the State of Massachusetts, and the proportion
of the length of its lines in that State to their entire length
throughout the whole country is made the basis for ascertaining the value of that property. We do not think that such a
tax is forbidden by the acceptance on the part of the telegraph company of the rights conferred by § 5263 of the Revised Statutes, or by the commerce clause of the Constitution.
It is urged againsit this tax that in ascertaining the value of
the stock no deduction is made on account of the value of real
estate and machinery situated and subject to local taxation
outside of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. The report
of Examiner Fiske, to whom the matter was referred to find
the facts, states that the amount of the value of said real
estate outside of its 3urisdictign was not clearly shown, but it
did appear that the cost of land and buildings belonging to
the company and entirely without that State was over three
millions of dollars. In the statement of the treasurer of the
company it is said that the value of real estate owned by the
company within the State of Massachusetts was nothing.
Since the corporation was only taxed for that proportion of
its shares of capital stock which was supposed to be taxable
in that State on the calculation above referred to, and since
no real estate of the corporation was owned or taxed within

W. U. TEL. CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Opunon ol the Court.

its limits, we do not see why any deduction should be made
from the proportion of the capital stock which is taxed by its
authorities. But if this were otherwise we do not feel called
upon to defend all the items and rules by which they arrived
at the taxable value on which its ratio of percentage of taxation should be assessed; and even in this case, which comes
from the Circuit Court and not from that of the State, we
think it should appear that the corporation is injured by some
principle or rule of the law not equally applicable to other
objects of taxation of like character. Since, therefore, this
statute of Mfassachusetts is intended to govern the taxation of
all corporations therein, -and doing business -within its territory, whether organized under its own laws or those of some
other State, and since the principle is one which we cannot
pronounce to be an unfair or an unjust one, we do not feel
called upon to hold the tax void, because we might have
adopted a different system had we been called upon to accomplish the same result.
It is very clear to us, when we consider the limited territorial extent of Massachusetts, and the proportion of the
length of the lines of this company in that State .to its business done therein, with its great population and business
activity, that the rule adopted to ascertain the amount of the
value of the capital engaged in that business within its boundaries, on which the tax should be assessed, is not unfavorable
to the corporation, and that the details of the method by
which this was determined have not exceeded the fair range
of legislative discretion. We do not think that it follows
necessarily, or as a fair argument from the facts stated in the
case, that there was injustice in the assessment for taxation.
The result of these views is, that the tax assessed against
the plaintiff in error is a valid tax; that the judgment of the
court below, "that the sum claimed by the plaintiff (below) to
be due for taxes, to wit, $10,618.46, be paid to said State by
said corporation, with interest thereon," is without error, and
so much of said judgment is hereby affirmed.
The decree or judgment, however, proceeds and awards an
injunction against the company in the following language,

OCTOB1,R TERM, 1887,
Opinion of the Court.

added to that above extraeted :-':anc.that -an -njunction shall
be issued out of and undeithe-eal of -this c6iirt, directed to
said corporation, and its officers, agents and servants, commanding them and each. of them .absolutely to dsist and refrain
from the farther prosecution of the business of said corpotation
until-said sums due to the said Commonwealth for taxes, as
dforesaid,.shQlI have been fully paid; wyith intbrest "andcotts,
unless the said sum is paid by said defendant within .thirty
days from the entry hereof."
The effect of this injunction, if obeyed, is to utterly suspend
the business of the telegraph company, and defeat all its operations within the State of Mf[assachusetts. The act of Congress
says that the company accepting its provisions 1shall have
the right to construct, maintain and operate lines of telegraph
through and over any portion of the public domain of the
Ul'nited States, over and along any of the military or postroads of the United States." It is found in this case that
2334.55 miles of the company's lines, out of 2833.05 6n which
this tax is assessed, are along and over such post-roads, and of
course the injunction prohibits the operation of the defendant's
telegraph over these lines, nearly all it has in the State.
If the Congress of the United States had authority to say
that the company might construct and operate its telegraph
over these lines, as we have repeatedly held it had, the State
can. have no authority to say it shall not be done. The injunction in this case, though ordered-by a Circuit Court of the
United States, i§ only granted by virtue of section 54 of chapter 13 of the Publi Statutes of Massachusetts. If this statute
is void, as we think it is, so-far as it prescribes this injunction
as a remedy to enforce the collection of its taxes by the decree of the court awarding it, the injunction is erroneous.
In holding this portion of section 51 of chapter 13 of the
M[assachusetts statutes to be void as applicable to this case,
we do not deprive the State of the power to assess and collect
the tax. If a resort to a judicial prbceeding to collect it is
deemed expedient, there remains to the court all the ordinary
means ol enforcing its :judgment- executions, sequestration,
a3id any other appropriate remedy in chancery.

BUOHER

. CHESHIRE RAILROAD CO.
Syllabus.

27atart of the decre of the Circuit yourt wkick awardq
the injuntiom is,therefore, reversed, and th case
re,
mnanded to that courtforfwrter proceedings
'
in conform-

ity to this qPinion.
ME. JusTio! BADLL-r was not present
this case and took no part in its decision.

at the argument of

BUCHER v. OFESHIRE RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNqITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MtASSAOHUSETTS.
To.2. Argued Januaryn, 183.-Deelded

rch 19,21888.

The plaintiff sued the defendants in a state court and recovered judgment.
The highest appellate court of the State, reviewing the case decided the
points of law involved in it against the plaintiff, set aside the judgment
for error In the ruling of the court below, and sent the case back for a
new trial. The plaintiff then became nonsuit, and brought the present
suit in the Cir uit Court of the United States on the same cause of action.

Held,that he was not estopped.
The provision in Rev. Stat. § 721 that "the laws of the several States, except
where the Constitution, treaties, or statutes of the United States otherwise require or provide, shall be regarded as rules of decision In trials at
common law in the courts of the Un'ted States in cases where they apply"
is not applicable to proceedings in equity,,or in admiralty, or to criminal
offences against the United State,.
The courts of the United States adopt and follow the decisions of the highest court of a State in questions which concern merely the constitution
or laws of that State; also where a course of those decisions, whether
foUnded on statutes or not, have become rules of property within the
State; also in regard to rules of evidence in actions atb law; and also in
reference to the common law of th; State, and its laws and customs of a
local character, when established by repeated decisions.
The Supreme Judicial Court of Massachussts having, in a cause between
the same parties litigating in this action, arising out of the transaction
herein litigated, and on the facts herein established, Med, (1) that.the
plantiff when injured by the negligence of the defendants" servants was
not travelling "for necessity or charity" within the meaning of those
terms as used in the General Statutes of Massachusetts, c. 81, § 2; (2)

that the provision in those statutes, c. 8-1, § 2, that whoever travels on

