OCTOBER TERME, 1887.
Syllabus.

nature and description, wheresoever the same may be, except
such property as may be by the constitution and laws of the
state exempt from forced sale." According to the decisions
of the Supreme Court of Texas, this general description is
sufficient, under the statute of 1879, to convey all the debtor's
property. Blum & lmum v. Telborne et a3., 58 Texas, 157,
161. The first section of the act declares that the assignment,
however expressed, shall be construed to pass all the debtor's
real and personal estate, whether specified therein or not.
Secondly. It is objected that the deed of assignment does
not, on its face, show that the assignor was insolvent, or in
contemplation of insolvency. The obvious answer is, that if
this is a, necessary requirement, the deed does state that the
assignor "is indebted to divers persons in considerable sums
of money, which he is at present unable to pay in full."
When a person is unable to pay his debts, he is understood to
be insolvent. It is difficult to give a more accurate definition
of insolvency. The objection is without foundation.
We do not observeany other objection which it is necessary
specially to notice.
Thej udgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the cause
remanded, with m4Otiuctions to proceed t ere according
to aw.

DAVISONf v. DAVIS.
APPEAL FROM TEM CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF IE.TUCKY.
io.1iO.

Argued December 6, 7,18S7. -Decided

March 19, 188.

The payee of a promissory note gave to the promisor a receipt acknowledging it as given for the purchase of personal property to be delivered
to the promisor on payment of his note. The note not being paid at
maturity, the payee notified the promisor that he should not recognize
his further claim to the property, and, -after a further lapse of time
without hearing from him, destroyed the note. Heldl, that the sale was
conditional, not to be completed until payment of the note.
The remedy by bill in equity to compel a specific performance of a contract

DAVISON v. DAVIS.
Opinion of the Court.
to sell personal property upon the payment of a promissory note given
by the other party, payable at a date after the making of the contract,
is lost through tile laches of the complainant, if he wait live years after
the maturity of the note before filing his bill, and' the property meanwhile greatly increases in value.
The court holds as the result of the transactions between the parties which
are recited In its opinion, that, each being a holder of shares in a railroad company, they agreed that their respective Interests should be joint
and equal, and that the appellant should pay to the appellee the sum
necessary to equalize the difference in cost between them; and that, this
agreement not being carried out by the appellant, the parties substituted
a new agreement, based upon-the principal feature of the old one (that
the appellee should sell to the appellant enough of his stock to make the
holdings equal), but that each holding under the new agreement was to
be in severalty and free from conditions.

IN EQuIry. Decree dismissing the bill.
in the opinion of the court.
MrT.
lants.
brief.

The case is stated

t uel ASUZIlabarger and .27T. Marc .ilfndy for appelMr. .:.
"lJ loa was with Mlr. Shellabarger" on his

.Xr'. Alexander P. .Huizmphrey, Mr. &t. 'oh, Boyle, and
.Mr. George .F. Comstoc? for appellee submitted on their
briefs.

MF.

XusTiCS

BRuL=..delivered -the opinion of the court.

The bill in this case was filed by Charles G. Davison and
Marc Mundy to compel the defendant Davis to deliver to said
Mundy 379i shares of capital stock of the Louisville City
Railroad Company, alleged to belong to said Mundy as
assignee of said Davison, and to be held by Davis as security
for the payment of a certain note of Davison for 86521.36,

dated November 10th, 1876, and payable in one year, with
interest at seven per cent,.Mundy offering .to pay the amount
due on said note, and praying for an account to be taken to
ascertain said amount.
The transaction out of which the controversy grew -was as
follows In November, 1873, Davison, residing in Louisville, Ken-

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

tucky, and Alexander H. Davis, of lNew York City, were each
large owners of the capital stock of the Louisville City Railway Company, Davison owning about 800 shares and Davis
about 1200, and they entered into the following agreement for
the purpose of equalizing their interest, to wit:
" iiemorandum of an agreement made this tenth day of
November, 1873, between Ohas. G. Davison, of the city of
Lou., Ky., and Alex. Henry Davis, of the city of New York,
lNT. Y., witnesseth •
"cWhereas the said parties of the first and second parts,
respectively, are the actual and equitable owners of certain
shares of the capital stock of the Lou. City R. W., the said
Davison holding or being entitled to hold about eight hundred
and the said Davis holding or being equitably entitled to hold
about twelve hundred shares of the said stock, and whereas
the said parties of the :first and second parts are desirous of
equalizing their respective interests as between themselves,
and also of acquiring possession of a greater amount of the
said stock, now, therefore, it is hereby agreed that the stock
now actually or equitably held by the parties of the first and
second parts, respectively, shall be regarded as common property, each party being entitled to the onie-half ownership of
said stock for the considerations hereinafter to be mentioned.
"It is also agreed that all purchases of the said stock that
may be made hereafter shall be thus made for the joint
account of the parties to this contract, and shall be likewise
held by them in common.
"It is furthermore agreed, as the consideration for the
equalization of their respective interests, by the said parties to
this contract, that the actual cost of the stock held by each
party shall be computed as of this date, and a note given by
the said Davison at any tune upon demand for the amount
which would be due from hn for the equalization of said
joint stock account, it being understood that two hundred and
fifteen (215) shares of said stock now held by the said second
party shall offset in the account a like number of shares held
by the said Pirst party.
"And it is furthermore agreed that in case of the death of

DAVISON "v. DAVIS.
Opinion of the Court.

either of the parties to this contract, the survivor shall be
entitled to purchase the stock of said deceased party, within
one year from the time of such decease, at a price not exceeding twenty-five (25) dollars per share, if within twelve months
from the date of this agreement, with an advance of ten (10)
dollars per share for each succeeding twelve months.
"Lin witness whereof the parties of the rsBt and second
parts hereby attach their hands and seals this tenth day of
Tovember, 1873.

"(Signed)

ALEx. H

DAmvs.
)myn

0. G. DAviso.
"Witness: (Signed) E. H. SPooxNii."

"(Signed)

On the 11th of lNovember, 1876, Davis made out a report or
statement of the account between him and Davison, showing
that lhe, Davis, held 1571 shares which cost $32,723.41, and
that Davison held 812 shares which cost $19,680.69; and that
to make them equal, Davis must transfer to Davison 3791
shares, and Davison must pay therefor the sum of $6521.86,
or, as Davis expressed it, in the report, "That is the result as
I make it-that I owe you 379- shares of stock, and you owe
me $6521.36, as of lNTovember 10, 1876."
This account was assented to by Davison, and on the 29th
of January, 1877, the parties met, and Davison -delivered to
Davis his promissory note for said sum of $6521.36, dated
iNovember 10th, 1876, payable one year from date, with interest at seven per cent, and Davis, retaining the stock, delivered
to Davison a, receipt for the note in the words following, to
wit.
"Syracuse, I. Y., Jan. 29, 1877.
"Received of C. O. Davison his note, dated Nov. 10th, 1876,
for $6521.36, payable one year from date, with interest at 7
per cent. Said note is given me for the purchase of three
hundred and seventy-nine and one-half shares of stock of the
Louisville City Railway Co., now held by me, and to be delivered, upon payment of his note, to said Davison.
"ALEx. Hn-Exi- D.&vis."

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinon of the Court.

The note became due on the 12th of NTovember, 187t, but
was not paid. On the 16th of September, -1882, Davison, by
an indorsement on the receipt, transferred the 3794 shares
mentioned therein to Mundy, who assumed to pay the debt
due to Davis therefor; and in January, 1883, Mundy offered
to pay Davis the amount due on Davison's note, and demanded
the 379j- shares of stock- which Davis refused. Thereupon,
on the 27th of :March, 1883, the present bill was-filed. It
sets forth the circumstances of the transaction substantially
as above stated, but contains allegations to the effect that the
stock m controversy was regarded by the parties as belonging
to Davison, and thatehe agreed and consented that the defend-

ant might hold it by way of pledge or collateral security, for
the payment of his note; whereas the defendant insists that
the transaction was an agreement for a sale of the stock, to
be assigned and transferred to Davison when it was paid for.
The former take their stand on the terms of the original agreement of November, 1873, the latter on the receipt given in
January, 1877. If the transaction relating to the 379 - shares
of stock was a sale upon condition of payment of the note at
maturity, the non-performance of the condition defeated it, if
the vendor saw fit to avail himself of the breach, which be
did. If it was only an agreement for a sale, the delay of the
complainants in offering to pay the note and demanding a
delivery of the stock would preclude them from asking for a
specific performance of the agreement, even if the frame of
-the bill were adapted to such a decree-which is very doubtful, although it contains a prayer for further and other relief.
The delay was upwards of five years after the note became
due, and the circumstances which occurred enhance the right
of the defendant to rely on that defence against any claim for
specific performance. Both Davison and Davis were examined
as witnesses, and the latter states positively that shortly before
the maturity of the note, he wrote to Davison that if he did
not meet the note at maturity he (Davis) should not recognize
any further claim of his to the stock in question; and that
some time in the year 1878 he considered the matter at an end,
and destroyed the note. Davison, in his testimony, admits

DAVISON v. DAVIS.
Opimon of the Court.

that no communication took place between him and Davis in
relation to the stock after February, 1878. At that time he
states that a conveksation occurred between them in which
Davis offered to carry his (Davison's) stock in the company
until it worked out, but that nothing was said about the particular stock in question. The conversation, as he afterwards
explained, related to 579 shares bought by him of one Johnson,
and not to the 379 - shares. Another circumstance of weight
is the fact'that the stock would not sell for more than twenty
dollars per share until long after the note became due; and
that afterwards, when Davis himself took hold of the road,
the stock appreciated so as to sell for nearly or quite double
that amount. It was after this appreciation of the stock
in value, that Davison transferred his supposed interest to
Mundy, who then made the offer to pay Davison's note and
take up the stock. Under all these circumstances, the laches
of Davison and Mundy is a perfectly good defence againt any
claim of relief from the condition (if it was a sale upon condition); or for specific performance of the agreement (ifit was
an agreement for a sale). In Brsl er v. Gratz, 6 Wheat.
528, 54:1, Chief Justice Marshall said: "This, then, is a demand
for a specific performance, after a considerable lapse of time
[five years] made by a person who had failed totally to perform his part of the contract; and it is made after a great
change, both in the title and in the value of that which was
the subject of the contract; and by a person who could not
have been compelled to execute his part of it, had circumstances taken an unfavorable direction." The reason why -the
party seeking relief in that case could not be compelled to
execute his part of the contract, was his pecuniary inability to
execute it- a circumstance which also existed in the present
case.
But, as before stated, the complainants contend that the
nature of the transaction between the parties is to be gathered
from the agreement of November 10th, 1873, and not solely
from the receipt given in January, 1877, and that by that
agreement the parties became joint owners of the stock then

held by each, and of all that they or either of them might

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

afterwards purchase. That agreement was undoubtedly the
basis of the settlement made in January, 1877; but it cannot
be invoked to control the terms of that settlement. The
agreement amouifted to this, that the respective interests of
the parties in the stock of the company should be joint and
equal, Davison paying the amount necessary to equalize the
difference of costs between them. It appears, from the evidence, that the stock held by the two would control the
management of the company; and the object of the agreement, stated shortly, was that they should stand together and
be equally interested; Davison being at that tnne president
of the company, and Davis the largest stockholder. Up to
January, 1877, Davison had never paid the difference m the
cost of the stock. The parties then came to the settlement
referred to. Each still held his own individual shares as at
first, and as purchased afterwards, no transfels having been

made. They now concluded, instead of holding the stock in
common, to make an equal 'division of their aggregate shares;
and to do this, Davis must transfer to Davison 379, shares,
and, according to the terms of the original agTeement, the
latter must pay therefor the sum of $6521.36. In making
this change in their proposed relations, the parties treated the
transfer of the 379k shares as a sale, the terms of which are
specified m the receipt of January 29th, 1877. Those terms
are clear and'unmistakable. It is expressly declared that the
note was given for the purchase of 379 .shares of the stock
of the Louisville City Railway Company, to be delivered to
Davison upon the }iayment of his note. A mere receipt is
subject, to explanation; but an agreement, or contract, in a
receipt is as conclusive as in any other paper executed between the parties. Therefore, although the object of the
original agreement was, or may have been, a joint and equal
ownership of stock, with right of purchase by the survivor,
in ca~e of death, yet it is apparent that this plan was abandoned, at the tune oL the settlement, for that of an equal.
division of the stock of both, to be held in severalty only In
other words, instead of the old contract, which had never
been fully carried into effect, the parties entered into a new

DAVISON v. DAVIS.
Opinion of the Court.

contract based upon the principal feature of the old, that
Davis should sell to Davison a sufficient amount of stock to
make their holdings equal, but to be held in severalty, free
from any conditions, and with liberty on the part of each to
dispose of his stock as he should see fit, the price being fixed
in accordance with the terms prescribed in the original agreement.
That this was the real nature of the transaction which took
place in January, 1877, is apparent from the circumstances,
and from the subsequent conduct of the parties. Davison,
being in embarrassed circumstances, did not retain his stock,
but had parted with it all as early as the spring of 1878, thus
entirely ignoring the objects and purposes of the agreement
of 1873. The answer of the defendant contains the following
statement, to -wit "The respondent further says that said
agreements were entered into by hun in the belief and with
the assumption that said Davison was the holder or entitled
to hold about eight hundred shares, as represented by him,
and respondent does not know how much of said stock said
Davison held or was entitled to hold, but he never came into
possession or control of about eight hundred shares or near
that amount, and as early as the spring of 18TS ceased to be
a stockholder; that he then turned over to the company
whatever stock he held in part payment of his indebtedness
to the company, and the intent and purpose of the agreement
between said Davison and respondent wholly ceased and
failed." This averment is substantially proved by the testimony of both parties, Davison and Davis. The former continued president of the railway company until February,
1878, but was not reglected after that time. He had become
indebted to the company,'which had run down financially,
and, as before said, parted with all his stock. It is plain,
therefore, that the main purpose of the original agreement
had failed and had been abandoned. The only thing we have
to guide us, as to what the new contract was, is the rece.ptof January 29, 1871, the .terms of which we have already
adverted to. From those terms it is clear that the sale was
not to be completed until the payment of Davison's note.

OCTOBER TERM1, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

The language is, "said note is given me for the purchase of
379.- shares of stock now held by me and to be delivered, upon
payment of his note, to said Davison." That such language
amounts to conditional sale, or to an agreement for a sale on
performance of the condition, see Benjamin on Sales, Book 11,
Chap. .HI, Rule III, (p. 252, second ed.,) and the cases there
collected.
If this is a correct view of the case, it is plain that the only
equitable remedy applicable to it is a bill for relief from the
condition, or for specific performance. Both of these remedies,
as we have seen, have been lost by the laches of the complainant.

The decree of the Circuit Court i8 afflrmed.

WEIR- v. :ORDENr.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

OcIUIT

THE NORTHERN

COUR T

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

Ho. 182. Argued February 13, 1858.-DecIded

earch 19, 1888.

The second claim in reissued letters-patent No. 8914, dated September
30, 1879, to Frederil-S W Weir, for an improvement in railroad frogs,
(the original patent being No. 215,548,'dated lay 20, 1879,) whether construed by itself, or with reference to the state of the art at the time of
the alleged invention, is a claim for a combination of parts, viz.. (1)
two centre rails B B' 3oined to form the V-shaped point; (2) the outside
diverging or wng rails; (3) the channel irons of a U shape uniting the
centre rails together,-and also to the outside or wing rails, so that the
whole shall constitute a frog with the characteristics imparted by the
features of this combination, and no invention was required to divide
the U iron, shown in patent No. 173,801 issued to WiIliam 3. Mordon,
February 22, 1876, roto two, so as to connect the centre rails with the
outer rail.

Tins was a bill in equity to restrain the alleged infringement of' reissued letters-patent No. 8914, dated September 30,
1879, for an improvement in railroad frogs-, the original patent,
No. 215,548, dated May 20, 1879, having been issued on an

