PEMINA MILNING CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.

181

Syllabus.

'Ilrat v. nited States, 102 U. S. 426, 441, when it was
suggested. This is a case where the disbursing officer, Supposing that a retired officer of the navy was entitled to
more than it turns out the law allowed, have overpaid him
Certainly under such circumstances the mistake may be cor-.
rected. It follows that the judgment against the United.
States upon the counter-claim must be reversed, and the cause
remanded for further proceedings not mconsistent with this
opinion. It is consequently so ordered.

PEMBINA CONSOLIDATED SILVER MINING AND
MILLING COMPANY v. PENNSYLVANIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
2To. 189. Argued February 16, 185.-Decided March 19, 1888.
The exaction of a license fee by a State to enable a corporation organized
under the laws of another State to have an office within its limits for the
use of the officers, stockholders, agents, or employ~s of the corporation,
does not impinge upon the commercial clause of the Federal Constitution (Article I, section VIII, clause 3), provided the corporation Is
neither engaged in carrying on foreign or Interstate commerce, nor employed by the government of the United States.
Corporations are not citizens wvithin the meanmg of the clause of the ConstItutioq declaring that the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all
privileges and immunities of citizens in the several Statt:3, Article IV,

sectin II, clause 1.,
A private corporation is included under the designation of "person" in the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution, section L
The provisions in the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution, section 1,
that "no State shall deny to any person within Its jurisdiction the equal
protection of the laws," do not prohibit a State from requiring for the
admission within its limits of a corporation of another State such conditions as it chooses.
The only limitation upon the power of a State to exclude a foreign corporation from doing business within its limits, or hiring offices for that
purpose, or to exact conditions for allowing the corporation to do .business or hire offices there, arises where the corporation is in the employ
of the federal government, or where its business is strictly commerce,
interstate or foreign.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

TuE court stated the case as follows:

In May, 1881, the'Fembina Consolidated Silver Mining and
Milling Company was incorporated under the laws of Colorado, with an authorized capital of one million dollars, for the
purpose of carrying on a general mning and milling business
in that State. Its principal office is in Alpine, Colorado, and
since July 1, 1881 it has had, and still has, an office in the
city of Philadelphia, "for the use of its officers, stockholders,
agents, and employes." On the 31st of October, 1881, the
Auditor General and Treasurer of Pennsylvania assessed a tax
against the corporation for '".office license" from July 1, 1881,
to July 1, 1882, at the rate of one-fourth of a mill on each
dollar of its capital stock, which amounted to $250, and added
to it a penalty of $125 for failure to take out a license. This
tax was assessed and penalty imposed under section sixteen of
the act of the legislature of the Commonwealth, approved
June 7, 1879, entitled "An act to provide xevenue by taxation." The section provides as follows:
"That from and after the first day of Juiy, A.D. 1879, no foreign corporation, except foreigg insurance companies, which
does not invest and use its capital in ihis Commonwealth, shall
have an office or offices m this Commonwealth, for the use of
its officers, stockholders, agents, or employ~s, unless it shall
first haxve obtained from the Auditor General an annual license
so to do; and for said license every such corporation shall pay
into the State treasury, for the use of the Commonwealth,
annually, one-fourth of a mill on each dollar of capital stock
which said company is authorized to have, and the Auditor
General shall not issue a license to any corporation until said
license fee shall have been paid. The Auditor General and
State Treasurer are hereby authorized to settle and have collected an account against any company violating the provisions
of this section for the amount of such license fee, together
with a penalty of fifty per centum for failure to pay the same:
_PJovidecZ, That no license shall be necessary for any corporation paying a tax under any previous section of this act, or
whose capital stock, or a majority thereof, is owned or con-

PEMBLINA ?I-ING CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.

183

Opiniop of the Court.

trolled by a corporation of this State which does pay a tax
under any previous section of this act."
It is conceded that the corporation is not within the exception of the proviso of the act, as it pays no tax under any previous section.
From this assessment, or settlement of the account against
the corporation, as it istermed in the record, the .corporation
app3aled to the Court of Common Pleas of Dauphin County,
on the ground, among others, that the said 16th section of the
revenue act isin conflict with the clause of the Constitution
of the United States declaring that "1Congress shall have
power to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among
the several States," (Art. 1, sec. 8, clause 3,) and also with the
clause declaring that "the citizens of each State shall be
entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the
several States," (Art. 4, see. 2, clause 1.) In that court the Commonwealth filed a declaration in debt against the corporation
for the amount claimed. It does not appear from the record
that any answer or plea was filed to this declaration, but it is
assumed that issue was joined, as counsel of the parties agreed
that a trial by jury should be waived, and that the case should
be submitted to the decision of the court, subject to a writ of
error as in other cases, at the option of either party.
The Court of Common Pleas affirmed the validity of the
assessment, and -the corporation took the case on writ of error
to-the Supreme Court of the Commonwealth, which affirmed
the judgment of the Common Pleas. To review this judgment
the case is brought here.
XiUr. JaresIFJY. ewfin for plaintiff in error.
31r. TV S. Mi.Vatrie, Attorney General of Pennsylvania,
for defendant in error. -ir. Tohn -F.,anderson, Deputy
Attorney General, was with him on the bn'af.
[r. rusTiCn Famnn, after stating the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
The only questions passed upon by the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania, which can be considered by us, are those which

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opimon of the Court.

arise upon its ruling against the contention of the plaintiff in
error that the statute of the Commonwealth is in conflict with
clauses of the Federal Constitution. Its ruling upon the conformity of the statute with the constitution of the Commonwealth does not come under our jurisdiction.
The clauses of the Federal Constitution, with which it was
urged in the state Supreme Court that the statute conflicts, are
the one vesting in Congress the power to regulate foreign and
interstate commerce, the one declaring that the citizens of each
State are entitled to the privileges and immunities of citizens
in the several States, and the one embodied in the Fourteenth
Amendment declaring that no State shall deny to any person
within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.
1. It is not perceived in what way the statute impinges upon
the commercial clauge of the Federal Constitution. It imposes
no prohibition upon the transportation into Pennsylvania of
the products of the corporation, or upon their sale in the Commonwealth. It only exacts a license tax from the corporation
when it has an office in the Commonwealth for-the use of its
officers, stockholders, agents, or einploy6s. The tax is not for
their office, but for the office of the corporation, and the use
to which it is put is presumibly for the latter's business and
interest. For no other purpose can it be supposed that the
office would be hired by the corporation.
The exaction of a license fee to enable the corporation to
have an office for that purpose within the Commonwealth is
clearly within the competency of its legislature. It was decided long ago, and the doctrine has been often affirmed since,
that a corporation created by one State cannot, with some
exceptions, to which we shall presently refer, do business in
another State without the latter's consent, express or implied.
In Pau i. Firgmia, 8 Wall. 168, this court, speaking of a
foreign corporation, (and under that definition the plaintiff in
error, being created under the laws of Colorado, is to be regarded,) said: "The recognition of -itsexistence even by other
States, and the enforcement of its contracts made therein,
depend purely upon the comity of those States, -a comity
which is never extended where the existence of the corporation,

PEMBINA MINING CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.

185

Opniou of the Court.

or the exercise of its powers are prejudicial to their interests,
or repugnant to -their policy. Having no absolute Tight of
recognition in other States, but depending for such recognition
and the enforcement of its contracts upon their assent, it follows as a matter of course that such assent may be granted
upon such terms and conditions as those States may think
proper to inpose. They may exclude the foreign corporation
entirely; they may restrict its business to particular localities;
or they may exact such security for the performance, of its
coatracts with their citizens as in their 3udgmens will bes; promote the public interests. The whole matter rests in their
discretion."

A qualification of this doctrine was expressed
UnVzon, Tekeg'c.pA
Compa~ny, 96 U. S.1, 12,so far as it applies to corporations
engaged in commerce under the authority or with the permission of Congress. The act of July 24, 1866, "to -aid in th
construction of telegraph lines, and to secure to the governmenut the use of the same for postal, military, and -other purposes," which was considered in that case, declared that any
telegraph company -then organized, or which might thereafter
be organized, under the laws of any State, should have the
right to construct, maintain, and operate lines of telegraph
through and over any portion of the public domain of the
United States; over and along any of the military or post roads
of the United States, which had 'been or might thereafter be
declared such by act of Congress, and over, under, or across
the navigable streams or waters of the. United States," upon
certain conditions specified therein; and this court held that
the telegraph, as an agency of commerce and inteicommuication, came under the controlling poer of Congress, as
against any hostile state legislation; and that the Western
Union Telegraph Company, having accepted the conditions of
the act, could not be excluded by another State from prosecuting its business within her jurisdiction. The legislature of
Florida had- granted to another company, for twenty years,
the exclusive right to establish and maintain telegraph lines in
certain counties of the State, but this exclusive grant was
adjudged to be invalid as against the company acting under

in Pe.acoZ TdegrpA C'omany v. lFteste

OCTOBER TERU, 1887.
Opimon of the Court.

the law of Congress. And undoubtedly a corporation of one
State, employed in the business of the general government,
may do such business in other States without obtaining a
license from them. Thus, to take an illustration from the
opinion of Mr. Justice Bradley in a case recently decided by
hin, "if Congress should employ a corporation of ship builders
to construct a man-of-war, they would have the right-to pur-chase the necessary timber and iron'm any State of the Union,"
and, we may add, without the permission and against the prohibition of the State. Stockton v. BaZtimore and iew Y"ork
Bail-road Co., 32 Fed. :Rep. 9, 14.
These exceptions do not touch the general doctrine declared
as to corporations not carrying on foreign or interstate commerce, or not employed by the government. As to these
corporations, the doctrine of Paulv. 7irgmia applies. The
Colorado corporation does not come-within any of the exceptions. Therefore, the recognition of its existence in Pennsylvama, even to the -limited extent of allowing.it to have an
office within its limits for the use of its officers, stockholders,
.agents, and employ~s, was a matter dependent on the will of
the State. It could make the grant of the privilege conditional upon the payment of a license tax, and fix the sum
according to the amount of the authorized capital of the
corporation. The absolute power of exclusion includes the
right to allow a conditional and restricted exercise of its
corporate powers within the State. Bank of A-ugusta v.
Egarle, 13 Pet. 519; Lafayette In&ur'ance Co.. v. F'ench, 18
IHow. 404; -Ducatv. C-wago, 10 Wall. 410"-'S. 07air v. Cox,
106 U. S. 350.
We do not perceive the pertinency of the position advanced
by counsel that the'tax in question is void as an attempt by
the State to tax a franchise not granted by her, and property
or business not within her jurisdiction. The fact is otherwise.
1No tax-upon the franchise of the foreign corporation is levied,
nor upon its business or property without the State. A license
tax only is exacted as a condition of its keeping an office
within the State for the use of its officers, stockholders,
agents, and employ~s; nothing more and nothing less, and

PEMBINA M =NIG CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.

187

Opinion of the Court.
in what way this can be considered as a regulation of interstate commerce is not apparent.
2. Nor does the clause of the Constitution declaring that
the "citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges
and immunities of citizens in the several States" have any
bearing upon the question of the validity of the license tax in
question. Corporations are not citizens within the meaning
of that clause. This was expressly held m _Paul v. YFirginia.
In that case it appeared that a statute of Virginia., passed
in February, 1866, declared that no insurance company not
incorporated under the laws of the- State should carry on
business within her limits without previously obtaining a
license for that purpose, and that no license should be received
by the corporation until it had deposited with the treasurer
of the State bonds of a desigmated character and amount, the
latter varying acc6rding to the extent of the capital employed.
No such deposit was required of insurance cQmpanies incorporated by the State" for carrying on their business within
her limits. A subsequent statute of Virginia made it a penal
offence for a person to act in the State as an agent of a
foreign insurance company without such license. One Samuel
Paul, having acted in the State as an agent for a New York
insurance company without a license, was indicted and convicted -in a Circuit Court of Virginia, and sentenced to pay
a fine of $50. On error to the Court of Appeals of the State
the judgment was affirmed, and to review that judgment the
case was brought to this court. Here it was contended, as in
the present case, that the statute of Virginia was invalid by
reason of its discrAminating provisions between her ccirporations and corporations of other States; that in this particular
it was in conflict with the clause of the Constitution mentioned, that the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all
the privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States.
But the court answered, that corporations are not citizens
within the meaning of the clause, that the term citizens, as
used in the clause, applies only to natural persons, memliers
of the body politic owing allegiance to the State, not to artificial persons created by the legislatuie, and possessing only

OCTOBER TERI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

such attributes as the legislature has prescribed; that the
privileges and immunities secured to citizens of each State
in the several States by the clause in question are those
privileges and immunities which are common to the citizens
in the latter States under their constitution and laws by virtue
of their citizenship; that special privileges enjoyed by citizens
in their own States are not secured in other States by that
provision; that it was not intended that the laws of one State
should thereby have any operation in other States; that 'ney
can have such operation only by the permission, express or
implied, of those States; that special privileges which are
conferred must be enjoyed at home, unless the assent of other
States to their enjoyment therein be given; and that a grant
of corporate existence was a grant of special privileges to the
corporators, enabling them to act for certain specified purposes
as a single individual, and exempting them, unless otherwise
provided, from individual liability, which could therefore be
enjoyed in other States only by their assent. In the subsequent case of .Ducat v. Chwagro, 10 Wall. 410, the court followed this decision, and observed that the power of the State
to discriminate between her own domestic corporations and
those of other Stdtes, desirous of transacting business within
her jurisdiction, was clearly established by it and the previous
case of .Auzgusta v. Ewrd, 13 Pet. 519, and added that "as to
the nature or degree of discrimination, it belongs to the State
to determine, subject only to such limitations on her sovereignty as may be found in the fundamental law of the Union."
RPdlade ia Fire Assoczation, v. 'VTew York, 119 U. S. 110,
120.
3. The application of the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution to the statute imposing the license tax in question
is not more apparent than the application of the clause of the
Constitution to the rights of citizens of one State to the privileges and imnunities of citizens in other States. The inhibi-ion of the amendment that no State shall deprive any
person within its jurisdiction df the equal protection of the
laws was designed to prevent any person or class of persons
from being singled out as a special subject for discriminating

PEMI

A

NIING CO. v. IENNSYLVANIA.

189

Opinion of the Court.

and hostile legislation. Under the designation of person there
is no doubt that a private corporation is included. Such corporations are merely associations of individuals united for a
special purpose, and permitted to do business under a particular name, and have a succession of minember without dissolution. As said by Chief Justice farshall, "The great object
of a corporation is to bestow the character and properties of
individuality on a collective and changing body of men."
P'Gvidnce .Bank v. .Billings,4 Pet. 511, 562. The equal
protection of the laws which these bodies may claim is only
such as is accorded to similar associations within the jurisdiction of the State. The plaintiff in error is not a, corporation
within the jurisdiction of Pennsylvania. The office it hires is
within such jurisdiction, and on condition that it pays the
reqmired license tax it can claim the same protection in the
use of the office that any other corporation having a similar
office may claim. It would then have the equal protection of
the law so far as it had anyjthiug within the jurisdiction of the
State, and the constitutional amendment requires nothing
more. The State is not prohibited from discriminating in the
privileges it may grant to foreign corporations as a condition
of their doing business or hiring offices within its limits, provided always such discrimination does not interfere with any
transaction by such corporations of interstate or foreign commerce. It is not every corporation, lawful in the State of its
creation, that other States .may be willing to admit within
their jurisdiction or consent that it have offices in them; such,
for example, as a corporation for lotteries. And even where
the business of a foreign corporation is not unlawful in other
States the latter may wish to limit the number of such corporations, or to subject their business to such control as would be
in accordance with the policy governing domestic corporations
of a similar character. The states may, therefore, require for
the admssion within their limits of the corporations of other
States, or of any number of them, such conditions as they
may choose, without acting in conflict with the concluding
provision of the first section of the Fourteenth Amendment.
As to the meaning and extent of that seztion of the amend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

ment see Barbier v., Connolly, 113 U. S. 27, Soon Hing v.
Urowley, 113 U. S. 703;
iJRfiouri v. Lewzs, 101 U. S. 22, 80;
.iwsou,
-Pa&1c Railwcay Co. v. H-anzes, 115 U. S. 512;
Xic TWro v. Mopkins, 118 U. S. 356 ; l-acyes v. Jsisonr, 120

U. S. 68.
The only limitation upon this power of the State to exclude
a foreign corporation from doing business within its limits, or
hiring .offices for that purpose, or to exact conditions for
allowing the corporation to do business or hire offices there,
arises where the corporation is in the employ of the federal
government, or where its business is strictly commerce, interstate or foreign. The control of sich commerce, being in the

federal government, is not to be restricted by state authority.
Judgrnent affli-med.

11r. JusTicE BrADLEY was not present at the argument of
this cause and took no part m its decision.

MAYN'ARD v.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME

coUR

ILL.
OF TiHE TERRITORY OF

WASHINGTON.
ITo. 194. Argued February 16,17,188.-Decded 2,arch 19, 188.

A territorial statute of Oregon, passed in 1852, dissolving the bonds of
matrimony between husband and wife, the husband being at the time a
resident of the Territory, was an exercise of "tle legislative power of
the Territory upon a rightful subject of legislation," according to the
prevaling 3udicial opinion of the country aid the understanding of the
legal profession at the time rhen the act of Congress establishing
the territorial government was passed, August 14, 1848, 9 Stat. 323.
The general practice iithis country of legislative bodies to grant divorces
stated.
The ranting of divorces being within the competency of the legislature of
the Territory, its motives in passing the act In question cannot be Inquired into. Having purlsdiction to legislate upon the status of the hus-

