OCTOBER TERI, 1887.
Syllabus.

condition of the petitioner, upon the facts as they now stand,
without payment of any arrearage of rent, is demonstrably
bett~r than it would have been if no lease had been made, and
the Toad had been operated by its own proprietors, independently but as part of a connected through line. This is shown
by the fact that the lessor received as rent during the whole
period of the lease $6,464,869.19, while the total net earnings
of the leased property during the same period are shown to
have been only $5,290,783.02. Presumably these net earnings
are as large as they would have been if the road had been operated by its own proprietor. The volume of its business, and
the corresponding amount of its gross receipts, were certainly
swelled beyond what they would have been if the Indianapolis
and St. Louis Railroad had not been built, or had not been
operated in connection with it. It follows, therefore, upon the
basis of the flgures showh in the proofs, that the lessor has
actually received, since the lease. was made, in excess of the
entire net earnings of the leased property, $1,174,086.17. Indeed, it is further shown, that during the period commencing
with 1878, when the default began, the ifet earningsof the
entire line, including the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad,
as well as the leased road, amounted to $1,190,074.90, and that
during the same period the lessor received on account of rent
$1,450,336.67, being m excess of the net earnings of the two
roads.
Upon these facts, we are unable to discover any equitable
ground for the ielief prayed for by the petitioner.
The deoree of the Girouit Court is, therefore, armed. "

DOW v. BEIDELIA.
F"iMOR TO THE SUPiREIE COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKASAS.
No. i001. Submitted November 21, i887.-Decided .prii 16, 1888.

A.statute of a State, Axing at tbree cents a mile the manhnum fare mat any
railroad corporation may take for carrying a passenger within the State,
is not, as applied. to a corporation reorganized by the purchasers at the

DOW v. BEIDELMAIN.
Statement of the Case.
sale of a railroad under a decree of foreclosure, shown to be a taling of
propert-,y -withoutdue process of law, in contravention of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, by evidence that
under that restriction, and with its existing traffic, its net yearly inconie
will pay less than one and ahalf per cent on the original cost of the road,

and only a little more than two per cent on the amount of the bonded
debt, without any proof of the cost of the bonded debt, or the amount
of the capital stock of the reorganized corporation, or the price paid by
this corporation for the road.
A statute of a State, classifying its railroad corporations by the lengthi of
their lines, and thong a different limit of the rate of passenger fares in
each class, does mot deny to any corporation the equal protectioft of the
laws, within the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States.

Tuns original action was brought in an inferior court of the
State of Arkansas by Beidelman against Dow, Matthews and
Moran, Trustees, alleging that the defendants were the legal
owners and in possession of the Memphis and Little Rock :Railroad, in that State, more than a hundred miles long, and
charged and took of the plaintiff more than three cents a mile
for a ticket between two stations twenty-three miles apart on
that road, in violation of a statute of the State of April 4,

1887, the material provisions of which were as follows:
SEo. 1. "The maximum sum which any corporation, officer
of court, trustee, person or association of persons, operating a
line of railroad in this state, shall be authorized to charge and
collect for carrying each passenger over such line within this
state, in the manner known as first class passage is hereby
fixed at the following named rates: On lines of railroad fifteen
miles or less in length, eight cents per mile. On lines over fifteen miles in leng.h, and less than seventy-five miles in length,
five cents. On lines over seventy-five miles in length, three
cents per mile."
SEC. 3. "Any of the persons or corporations mentioned in
section one that shall charge, demand, take or receive, from
any person or persons aforesaid any greater compensation for
the transportation of passengers than is in this act allowed or
prescribed, shall forfeit or pay for every such offence any sum
not less than fifty dollars nor more than three hundred dollars.
and costs of suit, including a reasonable attorney'i fee, to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

taxed by the court where the same is'heard, on original action,
by appeal or.otherwise, to be recovered in a suit at law by the
party aggrieved in any court of competent jurisdiction." .Acts
of 1887, p. 227.
At the trial before the court, a jury having been waived,
the~parties agreed upon the following statement of facts:
"The femphis and Little Rock Railroad Company was incorporated under the act of the General Assembly of the State
of -Arkxansas- approved January 11, 1853, which act is taken
as a part hereof.

See acts of 1852, p. 130.

"On Mray 1, 1860, it mortgaged its property to Samuel
Tate, Robert C. Brinckley, and George 0. Watkins, trustees.
On Mfarch 1, 1871, it executed a second mortgage on its property and charter to Henry F. Vail, as trustee. On Mfarch 17,
1873, this second mortgage. was foreclosed by sale under the
-power,.and the purchasers, on N~ovember 17, 1873, organized
a new company under the charter, which they called the iMemplus and Little Rock Railway Company.
"On December 1, 1873, the :Memphis and Little Rook Railway Company mortgaged its charter and property to certain
trustees. This mortgage not being paid at maturity, the trustees thereunder brought suit in the United States Circuit
Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas for its foreclosure,
and the trustees in the mortgage of itay 1, 1860, were, on
their own application, made parties complainant;, and on
November 21, 1876, a final decree was entered in the cause,
directing the foreclosure of both mortgages and a sale for
their satisfaction.
1On April 27, 1877, the mortgaged property was sold under
the decree, including the charter, and the purchasers at the
sale organized under the charter, and called the new company
the Mtemphis and Little Rock Railroad Company, as reorganized. On itay 1 and 2, 1871, the said last-named company
issued bonds and executed to the defendants its mortgage
upon its property and charter, and, default having been made
in their payment, the defendants are in possession as trustees
for the mortgage bondholders.
"The legal right of the successive companies to organize
under the old charter as not admitted.

DOW v. BEIDELIAN.
Statemenst of the .Case.

"The railroad was built, prior to 1868, from Memphis to
Madison and from Little Rock to Du Vail's Bluff. It was
built through the intervening distance in 1869. The expense
of constructing the -emphis and Little Rock Railroad was
$d,000,000, and the railroad company has a bondedindebtedness of $2,850,000, beating interest at eight per cent per
annum; and the defendants are in possession as the representatives of the mortgage bondholders, default having been
.imade in the payment of interest on the bonds. The net income of the road for the year 1886 was $162,000, earned principally from passenger traffic, the charge for transportation
having been five cents per mile; and this has been about the
average for recent past years. With the same traffic that the
road has now, and charging for trapspor tation at the rate of
three cents per mile, the net income will only be $58,000,
which will pay less than one and one-half per cent on the cost
of the road, and only a little over two per cent on its bon.-ed
indebtedness. The defendants do not anticipate any increase
of traffic on account of the reduction, for the reason that the
St. Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern Railway, from which
the Memphis and Little Rock Railroad derives nearly all of
its through business, is building a parallel branch from Bald
Knob in the State of Arkansas to the city of Memphis, and,
being a hostile and rival line to that of these defendants, will
carry over that branch the through passengers who would
otherwise go over the road of the defendants. The most
profitable traffic has been the through traffic, and the defendants anticipate a great diminution in their present traffic when
said branch is completed, and it will, to all appearances, be
completed during the summer of 1887.
"The length of the defendant's road is one hundred and
thirty-five miles. Forty miles of that distance, from Madison
to Memphis, is through a swamp in which there are virtually
no inhabitants and which is subject to overflow.
"Either party may refer to the statements in reference to
the railroads in Arkansas contained in Poors Railroad Manual for"1886, and the same shall be taken as evidence of the
facts therein stated.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

"The cost of constracting the Batesville and Brmkley.Railroad froiin Brinldey to Newport, a distance of sixty miles, has
been $375,000. Its rate of transportation before the act of
1887 was flive cents per mile. Its length is sixty miles. The

Arkansas and Louisiana Railrodd is twenty-five miles long
and its cost is $180,000.
"It is further agreed that in Arkansas money is now and
has been for twenty years past lending currently at interest
from six to ten per cent per annum."
Some statements in Poor's Railroad Manual for 1886, were
introduced in evidence under the agreed statement of facts,
an-d are copied in the margm.1 No other evidence was introduced. The court, therefore, found the facts to be as above
agreed and as shown m. the extracts from Poor's Manual.
The defendants asked the court to make the following declarations of law:
"First.

The act of the General Assembly of the State of

Arkansas, approved April 4, 1887, in so far as it relates to the

present.proceeding, is unconstitutional, null and void, because,
under the guise of regulating charges for the carnage of passengers on railroads, it amounts virtually to the confiscation of
the property of the railroad in the hands of said defendants,
I Net earnings of Batesville-and Brinkley Railroad for 1885, $29,163.25.
Wt earnmgs of the Arkansas and Lomsiana-Railroad for 1855, $864,429.88.
Length of St. Vouis, Iron Mountain And Southern Railway, 923 miles.
Mortgaged for $35,56,352.61; 5, 7, and 8 per cent. Net earnings, 63,619,416.63. Rate of charges has been three cents per mile.
Length of the Little Rock and Fort Smith Railroad, 165 miles. Mortgaged for $2,879,500;, 7 per cent. Net profits, $225,910.31. Rate of
-charges has been live cents per mile.
Length of the Little Rock, Mississippi River ani Texas Railway, 162
miles. Mortgaged for $2,977,500; 7 per cent. Net .earnings, $99,604.44.
Rate of charges has been five.cents per mile.
Length of the St. Louis, Arkansas and Texas Railway, 785.21 miles.
Mortgaged for $18,375,000; 6 per cent. Net earnings; e67,644.30.
Length of St. Louis and San Francisco Railroad, 814.88 miles. mortgaged for $26,026,000. Net earnings, $2,573,772.70.
Length of Kansas City, Springfield and Memphis Railway, 281.9 miles.
Mortgaged for $7,800,000; 6 per cent. Net earnings, 6365,160.88.

DOW v. BEIDELLA.N.
Citations for Plaintif n Error.

and is an unreasonable, unjust, and oppressive taking of private
property for public uses without compons.ation.n violation of
the Constitution of the State of Arkansas and that of the
United States.
".Second. The said act of the General Assembly is uncon"
stitutional, because it is special legislation and makes arlitrary
discriminations between different railroads, not based either
upon their value, their earnings, or other valid grounds, but
based simply on the respective lengths of the several railroads."
The court refused to make either of those declarations of law,
and gave judgment for the plaintiff for a penalty of fifty dollars and a counsel fee of twenty-five dollars. The defendants
excepted to the refusal, and appealbd to the Supreme Court of
the State, which affirmed the judgment.
The defendants sued out this writ of error, and assigned for
error that the court erred in holding that the statute of Arkansas of April 4, 1887, wu not repugnant .to the clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States which provides-that no State shall deprive any person
of life, liberty or .property,without due process of law; and m
holding that that statute was not repugnant to the clause of
that Amendment which declares that no State shall deny to
any person within its jurisdiction the .equal protection of the
laws.
rfr.U. Z. Rose for plaintiff in error cited: Constitution"of
Arkansas, 1874, Art. xii, § 6; Art. xix, § 13; Railroad
Commission Cases, 116 -U. S. 307, 331; Ew pcrte Hoehler, 23
Fed. Rep. 529 ; Cooley Const. Lim. 578; :ilLarv. Few Fork
& ZX6 Railroad Co., 21 Barb. 513, 519; 2 Morawetz Corp.
§ 1075 ; Holyoke Co. v. Xyman, 15 Wall. 500; United States
v. CrziX-shank, 92 'U. S. 542, 555; Nissour?.v. .Zeuis, 101 U. S.
22, 31; Barbierv. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27; Tiok Iro v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, 368; Chicago, Jurlington &c. Rairoqd
v. Qutnoy, 94 U. S. 155; *Fan R iper.v. Parsons,40 N. J. L
1; 14'eeholders v. tevenson, 46 N. T. L. 173; 90s v..Noryan,
39 N. J. Eq. 126; -rnst v. .YAorg'an, 39 N. J. Eq. 891; Wood
ard v. Brien, 14 Lea, 520; Smitl v. "Wrader, 80 -Ky. 698;

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
-Opinion of the Court.

State v. ierrmann, '75 Missouri, 340; Commonwealth v. Pat.
ton, 88 Penn. St. 258; DZevine v. Commnsszoners, 84 Il. 590,
County of Dougherty v. .Boyt, 71 Georgia, 484.
.r. J"ohn II. Rogers for defendant in error cited -tremIpkis
& ittle Rock .ailroad Co. v. Railroad Commsszoners, 112
U. S. 609, _tCuedloc1 v. .Maryland,4 Wheat. 316; Constitution Ark. 1874, Art. xvii, § 10; Stone v. Wisconsin, 94 U. S.
181; Atnnb v. . ll.no.s, 94 U. S. 113, C/icago, Bu'lington
&o. Railroadv. Iowa, 94 U. S. 155, Devine v. Commswsoners,
84 Illinois, 590; 1 Rev. Stat. Missouri, 1879, 146; Howell's
Ann. Stat. Mich. 1882, p. 840, § 3323, sub. sees. 7 and 9; Laws
of Penn. 1876, lNo. 87, p. 116, Hittell's Code and Statutes of
California, § 5489; Comp. laws of Kansas, 1879, p. 22Z, 57,
Acts of Wisconsin, 1874, p. 600, § 4; ]TPis/eer v. Philadelphia,
77 Peln. St. 338; 0i4gor'e v. -Magee, 85 Penn. St. 401: 1,orVison v. Bachert, 112 Penn. St. 322; JDavs v. Clark. 106 Penn.
S. 377; Tan, Riper v. Parsons,40 N . T. L. 1.
MR. JuSTIOn GnA-r delivered the opinion of the court.
The general rule of law that governs this case has been
clearly stated and developed in opinions of this court, delivered by the late -Chief Justice.
In -Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113, decided at October Term,
1876, after affirming the doctrine that by the common law
carriers or other persons exercising a public employment could
not chayge more than a reasonable compensation for th.eir
services, and that it is -within the power of the legislature "to
declare what shall be a reasonable compensation for such services, or, perhaps more properly spealng, to fix a maximum
beyond which any charge made would be unreasonable," the
Chief Justice said: "To limit the rate of charges for services
rendered in a public employment, or for the use of property
in which the public has an interest, is only changing a regulation which existed before. It establishes no new principle in
the law, but only gives a new -effect to an old one." 94 U. S.
133, 134.
In Chicaqo. Burlinqton & Quzncy Railroad v. Iowa, 94

DOW .v. BEIDELAN.
Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 155, decided-at the same time, a corporation hving a1
perpetual lease of. the railroad of another organized under the
general corporationw'kw of Iowa of 1851, c. 43, with the same
powers as private individuals to make contracts, as well as the
power to establish by-laws and make all rules and regulations
deemed expedient for the management of its affairs, m accordance with law, was held to be bound by the subsequent statute
of Iowa of 1874, c. 68, entitled "An act to establish reasonable
maximum rates of charges for transportation of freight and
passengers on the different railroads of this state," by which
those railroads were classified according to the gross amount
of their earings per mile for the preceding year; and the
compensation per mile, which those of each class might receive
for the transportation of a passenger with ordinary baggage,
was limited to three cents, three cents and a half, and four
cents, respectively. Iowa Laws of 1874, p. 61. The Chief
Justice said: "Railroad companies are carriers for hire. Thev
are incorporated as such, and given extraordinary powers, in
order that they may better serve the public in that capacity.
They are, therefore, engaged in a public employment affecting
the public interest, and, under the decision in x

nn v. .llinou.,

9 U. S. 113, subject to legislative, control as to their rates of
fare and freight, unless protected by their charters." "This
company, in the transactions of its business, has the same
rights, and is subject to the same control, as private individuals under the same circumstances. It must carry when
called upon to do so, and can charge only a reasonable sum
for the carriage. In the absence of any legislative regulation
upon the subject, the courts nmiust decide for it, as they do for
private persons, when controversies arise, what is reasonable.
But when the legislature steps fn and prescribes a maxmuni
of charge, it operates upon this corporation the same as it does
upon individuals engaged in a similar business2 9k U. S.
161, 162.
The same rule was affirmed: and acted on Mnseveral other
cases decided at the same time, in the first of which the Chief
Justice, in answering "the claim that the courts must decide
what is reasonable, and not the legislature," said: "Where

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinon of the Court.

property has been clothed with a public interest, the legislature may fix a limit to that which in law shall be rpasonable
for its use. This limits the courts, as well as the people. If it
has been improperly fixed, the legislature, not the courts, must
be appealed to for the change." Peilk v. Cticago & .ZLortAwestern 2ailway, 94 U. S. 164, 178; Chicago, .Milwauk.Tee &

St. Paul Railroad v. Acdey, 94 U. S. 179, Winona & St.
Peter Railroadv. Blake, 94: U. S. 180; Stone v. Visconsin,
94- 7. S.181.

Upon like grounds, in Ruggles v. Illinois, 108 U. S. 526, and
Plinoms Central R~ailroadv. linois, 108 U. S. 541, decided at
October Term, 1882, the statute of Illinois of April 15, 1871,
(Illinois Laws of 1871, p. 6410,) which classified the railroads
in the State according to their gross annual earnings per mile,
and put different limits on the compensation of the different
classes per mile for carrying a passenger and his baggage, was
adjudged, in opinions delivered by the Chief Tustice, to be
constitutional and valid, in restricting to the limit of three
cents a mile existing corporations, whose charters gave them
power to make all by-laws, rules and regulations not repugnant to law, and gave their directors power to establish such
rates of toll as they should by their by-laws determine. And
two Tustices who did not assent to those opinions concurred in
the judgments, because it was not shown that the rate prescribed by the legislature was unreasonable.
In Stone v. .Farmers'Loan. d Trust C'o., 116 U. S. 807, decided at October Term, 1885, the obligation of a contract, created by a charter granting similar powers to a railroad corporation and its directors, was held not to be impaired by a
statute of Mississippi, establishing a board of railroad commissioners charged with the duty of preventing the exaction of
unreasonable .ordiscriminating rates upon transportation done
within the limifs of the State; and the Chief Jiuitice said.
"It is'now-settled in this court that a State has power to limit
the amount of charges by railroad companies for the transportation of persons and property within its own jurisdiction,
unless restrained by some contract in the charter, or unless
what is done amounts-to a regulation of foreign or interstate

DOW v. BEIDELMA.N.
Opinion of the Court.
commerce." 116 U. S. 325. He added, however: e Fromwhat has thus Been said it is not to be inferred that this power
of limitation or regulatiou is itself without limit. This power
to regulate is not a power to destroy; and liniitation is mot
the eqivalent of confiscation. Under pretence of regulating
fares and freights, the State cannot require a railroad company to carry persons and property without reward; neither
can it do that which in law amounts to a taking of private
property for public use, without just compensation, or without
due process of law." 116 'U. S. 331. The opinions of the two
dissenting J'ustices were grounded upon the provisions of the
charter, and upon its not having been expressly made subject
to alteration or repeal by the legislature. The cases, decided
at the same time, of Stone v llMns Central Rai'road,116
U. S. 3,71t, and &one v. -New Orkans & .r.theeaste.n .RailP'oad, 116 U. S. 352, were substantially similar.
As applied to freights and fares for transportation not extending beyond the limits of the State by which the railroad
company, is incorporated, the authority of the legislature is
not affected by the later decision in Wabash, &.._ouis d Pacflc Raiway v. -linois,118 U. S.557.
The case at bar is quite clear of any of the questions upon
-which the members of the court have heretofore differed in

opinion.
If the Memphis and Little Rock. Railroad Company, as reorganized by the purchasers at the sale under the decree of
foreclosure of. the previous mortgages, was a lawful corporation of the.Stale of Arkansas, it.was not the same corporation
as that chartdred by the legisliture in 1853, bat was a new
corporation, subject to the provisions of the Constitution and
laws in force when iefirst came into existence, that is to say,
in 1811. .Mem
pkis & ]tte
Rock Railroadv. Railroad OCnMisswners, 112 U. S. 609.
The Constitution of Arkansas of 1874 contains the following provisions:
"Corporations may be formed under general laws, which
laws may, from time to time, be altered or repealed. The
general assembly shall have power to alter, revoke or annul
voL. ax=x--g

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

any charter of incorporation now existing and revocable at the
adoption of this constitution, or that may be hereafter created,
whenever, in their opinion, it may be injurious to the citizens
of the State, in such manner, however, that no injustice shall
be done to the corporators. Art. 12, § 6.
"1The general assembly shall pass laws to correct abuses and

prevent unjust discrimination and excessive charges by railroad, canal and turnpike companies, for transporting freight
and passengers, and shall provide for enforcing such laws by
adequate penalties and forfeitures." Art. 17,§ 10.
The legislature of Arkansas, by.the statute of _,pril 4, 188,
fixed the maximum fare that any corporation, trustees, or persons, operating a line of railroad, might charge and collect for
carrying a passenger within the State, at eight cents a mile on
a line fifteen miles long or less, five cents a mile on a line
more than fifteen and less than seventy-five miles long, and
three cents a mile on a line more than seventy-five miles long.
The line of the road of the plaintiffs in error is more than seventy-five miles long, and they charged more than three cents
a mile, and were therefore held to be subject to the penalty
imposed by the statute for any violation of its provisions.
The plaintiffs in error do not contend that it is always or
generally unreasonable to restrict the rate for carrying each
passenger to three cents a mile. They argue that it is so in
this case, by reason of the admitted fact, that with the same
traffic that their road has now, and charging for transportation at the rate of three cents per mile, the net yearly income
will pay less than one and a half per cent on the original cost
of the road, and only a little more than two per cent on the
amount of its bonded debt. But there is no evidenc- whatever as to how much money the bonds cost, or as to the
amount of the capital stock of the corporation as reorganized,
or as to the sum paid for the road by that corporation or its
trustees. It certainly cannot be presumed that the price paid
at the sale under the decree of foreclosure equalled the original cost of the road, or the amount of outstanding bonded
debt. Without any proof of the sum invested by the reorganized corporation or its trustees, the court has no means, if

DOW v. BEIDELMAN.
Opimon of the Court.

it would under any circumstances have the power, of determining .that the rate of three cents a mile fixed by the legislature is unreasonable. Still less does it appear that there has
been any such confiscation, as amounts to a taking of property
without due process of law.
Tt is equally clear that the plaintiffs in error have not been
denied the equal protection of the laws.
The legislature, in the exercise of its power of regulating
fares and freights, may classify the railroads according to the
amount of the business which they have done or appear likely
to do. Whether the classification shall be according to the
amount of passengers and freight carried, or of gross or net
earnings, during - previous year, or according to the sinpler
and more constant test of the length of the line of the railroad, is a matter within the discretion of the legislature. If
the same rule is applied to all railroads of the same class, there
is no violation of the constitutional provision securing to all
the.equal protection of the laws.
A similar question was presented and decided in kicago,
BurZington & Quincy .Railroadv. Iowa, above cited. It was
there objected that a statute regulating the rate for the carriage of passengers, by different classes of railroads, according
to their gross earnings per mile, was in conflict with art. 1,
s.ec. -4, of the Constitution of Iowa, which provides that "all
laws of a general nature shall have a uniform operation," and
"the general assembly shall not grant to any citizen, or class
of citizens, privileges or immunities which upon the same
terms shall not equally belong to all citizens." In answering
thht objection, the*Chief Justice said: "The statute divides
the railroads of the State -into classes, according to business,
and establishes a maximum of rates Jfor each of the classes.
It operates uniformly on each class, ard this is all the Coiistitution requires." "It is very clear that a uniform rate Pf
charge:; for all-railroad companies in the State might operate
unjustly upon some. It was proper, therefore, to provide in
some way for an adaptation of the rates to the circumstances
of the different roads ; and the general assepibly, in the exercise
of its legislative discretion, has seen Ait to do this- by a system

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

of classification. -Whether this was the best that could have
been done is not for us to decide. 'Our province is only to determine whether i 1 could be done at all, and under any aircumstances. I it could, the legislature must decide for itself,
sub3ect to no control- from us, whether the common good requires that it should be done." 94: U. S. 163, 164.
,.Tudgment afJlqmed.

BO1NAIAX v. NEBRASKA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COU'T OF THE STATE OF NEBRASK
"o.50. Submitted Octoberfl, 1887. -Decided

.

October 17, 1887.

A person convicted of crnme in the court below having sued out a writ,.of
error whiel was docketed here, and baying escaped from the jurisdiction

of the court below, this court declines to hear the case, and orders it
removed from the 4ocket unless the plaintiff in error comes within the
jurisdiction of the court below on or before the last day of this term.

Tzm case is stated in the opinion.
Xr. OCark'3 0. TWeedm and Xi.
tiff in error.
.N.

. E.

fagoom for plain-

Ti lam Leeme for defendant in error.

MR. CHIF JusTiOn WA=rrT delivered the opinion of the court.

It appearing that during the pendency of this writ the
plaintiff in error has escaped, and is not Aow within the control of the court below, either actually, by being in custody,
or constructively, by being out on bail, it is ordered that the
submission of the cause be set aside and that unless the .plaintiff in error is brought or comes -within the jurisdiction and
under the control of the court below on or before the last
day of. this term the cause be thereafter left off the docket
until directions tb the contrary. Smitk v. UJitaZ Sates, 94.
U. & 97.

