SPENCER

i,.

MERCHANT.

Syllabus.

ent on the amount of work actually done, or the titne actually
employed. It would hardly have been contended that under
such a contract the State could not stop the survey and require
Hall to quit work at any time it pleased. The difference
between the two cases is the difference in the two contracts.
In Jefri's Case the contract was by an adminstrator of a
deceased person's estate with a firm of attorneys, to prosecute
a doubtful claim, "for a portion of the proceeds, with full
power to compromise it as they. should please," and we held
that such an agency was not revoked by the death of the administrator who ma de.the contract and the appointment of another
in his place. The question was as to the validity of a compromise made by the attorneys, on that authority, after the
death of the first administrator. In the present case there
was no authority to compromise: Walker could do nothing
to establish the claim. He could pot even receive the money
belonging to the State after he had got the allowance of the
claim by the United States.
We find no error in the record, and the judgment is

AfflneZ.

SPENCER v. 3EROHANT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Nro. 872. Submitted February ',18SS-Decided April 2, 18.
A 3udgment of the highest court of a State, sustaining the validity of an
assessment upon lands under a statute of the State, which was alleged
to be unconstitutional and void because it afforded to the owners no
opportunity.to be heard upaon the whole amount of the assessment,
involves a decision against a right claimed under the provision of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States prohibiting the taking of property without due process of law, and may be
reviewed by this court on writ of error, although the Constitution of
the State contains a similar provision, and no constitutional provision is
specifically mentioned in the record of the State court.
If the legislature of a State in the exerise, of its power of taxation,
directs the expense of laying out, grading or repairing a street to be
assessed upon the owners of lands benefited thereby; and determines

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.
the whole amount of the tax, and what lands, which might be so benefited, are in fact benefited; and provides for notice to and hearing of
each owner, at some stage of the proceedings, upon the question what
proportion of the tax shall be assessed upon his land; there is no taking

of his property *ithout due process of'law, In violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.Pursuant to an act of the legislature of NTew York, the expense of grading
a street was assessed by commissioners upon the lands lying within
three hundred feet on either side of the street, and which would, in the
judgment of commissioners, be benefited. After the gums so assessed
upon some lots had been paid, the Court of Appeals of the State adjudged the assessment to be void, because the act made no provision for
notice to or hearing of the. land-owners. The legislature then passed
another act, directing a sum equal to so much of the first assessment as
had not been paid,-adding a proportional part of the expenses of making
that assessment, and interest sltce, to be assessed upon and equitably
apportioned. among the lots, the former assessment on which had not
been paid, first giving notice to all parties interested to appear and be
heard upon the question of the apportionment of this sum among these
lots, but not as to any apportionment between them and those.lots, the
former assessments upon which had been paid. Hfeld, that an assessment laid under the latter statute was not a taking of property without
due process of law, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States.

Tims case was submitted to the general term in Kings County
of the Supreme Court of the State of New York under § 1279
of The Code of Civil Procedure, without process, upon an
agreed statement of facts signed by the parties, the substance
of -which, and of the statutes therein referred to, was as follows:
On June 20, 1883, the parties made a contract in writing,
by which the plaintiff agreed to sell to the defendant a parcel
of ]and m the town of New Lots in that county, and to execute
and deliver a deed thereof, with full covenants of warranty.
and free of all incumbrances, in consideration of the sum of
$8000, part of which was paid, and the rest was payable on
delivery of the deed. Upon examination, the defendant discovered that there remained unpaid on the land: an assessment
of l1221.73, with -ilterest from November 3, 1881, and demanded that the plaintiff should pay it, but he refused. The
assessment was made under the following circumstances:
:By the statute of the State of New York of 1869, c. 217, as

SPENCER v. MERCHANT.
Statement of the Case.

amended by the statute of 1870, c. 619, it.was enacted in § 1,
that the Supreme llourt held in the county of Kings should,
upon the application of one or more freeholders of the town
of New Lots, appoint three commissioners, who, by § 2, should
immediately proceed to lay out in that town a street or avenue
in continuation of Atlantic, Avenue in the city of-Brooklyn,
and, by § 3, take the lauds lying within the boundaries of-the
avenue so laid out, and, after public notice in two or more
newspapers of the county, "at least twenty. days before meet,
ing for that purpose, of their intention to proceed to make the
award and assessment required by this act, and of the time
when and the place -where they will meet for that purpose, at
which meeting all persons interested may appear and be heard
in relation to the said award and assessment," award damages
to the owners of those lands, and assess the amount of the
award and the attendant expenses upon the lands lying within
three hundred feet on either side of the avenue, which in their
judgment should be benefited 'by opening and extending it,
and report such award and assessment to the court for confirmation, after public notice that all persons having any objection to it might be heard before the court; and that upon its
confirmation the amount of the assessment should be added by
the county supervisors to and made part of*the annual taxes
for three years, one third each year, with interest on the portions unpaid, and, when collected , be paid over to tho owners
of the lands taken.
The statute of 1869, as amended by the statute of 1870, further provided, in § 4, that upon the confirmation of the report
as to the opening of the street, the commissioners should, be
auzhorized to enter upon the land taken, to cause it to be regulated, prepared and graded for public travel, and to assess
the expense of such regulating, grading and preparing for
travel "upon the lands and premises which, in their judgment,
shall be benefited by such improvement, in proportion to the
benefit accruing to them by reason thereof, the district of assessment to extend back as provided heretofore in -this act;"
and that the amounts so assessed, together with interest at the
rate of seven per cent a year from *themaking of the assegs-

OCTOBER TERM, 188Z
Statement of the Case.

ment, should be. added to and made a, part of the annual taxes
for the ensuing year upon the lands assessed, and, when collected, be applied to the payment of bonds issued under that
statute.
The commissioners were appointed, laid out the street, and
regulated, graded and prepared it for travel, and made the
award and assessments, as directed by the statutes aforesaid.
The assessment made under § 4 for the expense of regulating,
grading and preparing the street for travel,, amounted to more
than $100,000. The sums so assessed upon some lots were
paid; but the sums assessed upon other lots remained unpaid,
the owners of these lots contesting the validity of the assessment. The principal amount of the unpaid part of that
assessment, being $40,664-.96, was returned for five years as
uncollected by the treasurer of Kings County to the comptroller of the State, and, together with interest thereon at the
yearly rate of five per cent and amounting to $8293.33, was
paid or credited in.account by the State to the treasurer of
Kings County. On June 18, 1878, the Court of Appeals declared that assessment void. .%art v. Pamner, U' X5. Y. 183.
On January 29, 18-79, the comptroller of the State canuelled
the unpaid assessment, and chaged the county with the amount
thereof, being $40,661.96, together with the interest thereon
to February 1, 1879, amounting to $8293.83.
On August 12, 1881, the kgislature of lew York, by the
statute of 1881, c. 689, directed the board of .supervisors of
Kings County to levy on. the assessment roll of the town of
N~ew Lots for 1881. upon the lands, the assessment made upon
which, under § 4 of the act of 1869, had been so cancelled by
the comptroller, and -charged to the county of Kings, "a sum
equitably apportioned among the several parcels comprising
said- lands, which shall be suffidient to refund to the State
of N~ew York the sum its due by reason of such cancellation, which sum, amounting to $10,661.96, -was duly credited
August. 28th, 1876, by the comptroller of said State to the
treasurer of Kings County, and the interest charged thereon
by said comptroller, as required by law, to February 1st, 1879,
amounting to $8293.33, together with further interest thereon,

SPENCER v. M RCHANT.
Statement of the Case.

at six per centum per annum, from February 1st, 1819, to the
date of such levy. Before.proceeding to levy such sums, the
said board shall apportion the same among the several parcels
of land hereinbefore mentioned, and said board shall give ten
days' notice of the time and place when they will meet to
make such apportionment, which notice shall be published
daily in a newspaper published in the county of Kings, and
all parties interested m said lands shall be entitled to be heard
before said board upon the question of said apportionment."
The statute of 1881 further provided that the sums so levied
should be collected by the collector of taxes of the town of
New Lots, and paid over to the county treasurer, and by him
applied "to pay the amount so due the State of New-York
by reason of such cancellation."
Under and pursuant to this statute, the supervisors of Kings
County added to the aforesaid sums of $10,66-1.96, being the
unpaid balance of the previous assessment, and $8293.83,
leing the interest thereon to February 1, 1879, further interest
thereon at the yearly rate of six per cent from that date to
November 3, 1881, the day of the final conclusion of their
report, and assessed and levied the aggregate sum of $55,653.52
upon the plaintiff's and other lots.
The lots so assessed were isolated parcels, not contiguous,
and many of them not fronting on the avenue. Most of the
territory benefited as fixed by the statute of 1869, and a great
portion of the original assessment, were not included in the
statute of 1881, nor directed to be taken into consideration in
making the new assessment. But this assessment included a
proportionate part of the expenses of the former assessient,
which had been declared void by the Court of Appeals.
The case stated by the parties, after setting forth the foregoing facts, continued and concluded as follows:
"The plaintiff claims that said assessment of 1881 in question is not a lien or cloud on the title to said premises; and
the defendant refuses to pay the balance of said consideration
until the plaintiff allows it to be deducted from the consideration money or pays the same, neither of which is the plaintiff
willing to do; and the plaintiff also claims that the statute

OCTOBER TERMr,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

of 1881, c. 689, is unconstitutional, and therefore void, for the
reason that it is an attempt made by the legislature of this
state to validate a void assessment (and to do the same without giving the property-holders an opportunity to be heard
as to the total amount of the assessment, only providing for
a hearing on the apportionment), which was levied upon said
premises under and pursuant to c. 217 of the laws of 1869, as
amended by c. 619 of the laws of 1870, and that the statute
of 1881 is clearly void for the further reasons that the defect
in the former assessment was jurisdictional, and it has been so
declared and decided by the Court of Appeals in the case of
Stuart v. PaZmer, 74 N. Y. 183, and is special and invidious,
and unjustly and illegally apportioned upon certain individuals
without reference to a uniform standard, and is an arbitrary
exaction, and is levied on an individual or individuals to the
exclusion of others in the same district. The defendant doubts
the said claim of the plaintiff. The question submitted to the
court upon this case is as follows :
"Is the assessment levied on the property in 1881 in question a good and valid lien or cloud on said prqpertyI
"If this question is answered in the affirmative, then judgment is to be rendered in fa;4or of the defendant and against
the plaintiff, requiring the plaintiff to pay said assessment to
deliver a deed according to contract.
"If it be answered in the negative, then judgment is to be
rendered in favor of the plaintiff, requiring the defendant to
take title to said premises in accordance with the contract
above mentioned, withbut the plaintiff paying said assessment
or tax, and without deducting the same out of the consideration money."
TOle Supreme Court of New York gave judgment for the
defendant, and the plaintiff appealed to the Court ef Appeals,
which affirmed the judgment and remitted the case to the
Supreme Court. 100 N. Y. 585. The plaintiff sued out thlis
writ of error, and assigned for error that it appeared by the
record that both. those courts held that the statute of 1881,
c. 689, and the proceedings under it were constitutional and
valid, "whereas the said courts should have decided that the

SPENCER v. ?MERCEANT.
Opinion of the Court.

said statute and the proceedings thereunder were in. violation
of the Constitution of the United States and were void, for
the reason that they deprived the said plaintiff and the other
persons assessed thereunder of their property without due process of law."
.3&. tfattkew .aZe and Mri. Albert .Day for plaintiff in error.

.Mr. WaZtr . Wazrd for defendant in error.
M JsTi Gnxr, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The leading facts of this case are as follows: The original
assessment of the expenses of regulating, grading and preparing the stxeet for travel was laid by commissioners, as directed
by § 4 of the statute of 1869, upon all the lands lying within
three hundred feet on either side of the street, and which, m
the judgment of the commissioners, would be benefited by
the improvement. After the sums so assessed upon some lots
had been paid, the Court of Appeals of the State declared
that assessment void, because the statute, (although it made
ample provision for notice of and hearing upon the previous
assessment for laying out the street under § 3,) provided no
means by which the land-owners might have any notice or
opporti-nity to be heard in regard to the assessment for regulating, grading'and preparing the street for travel under §14
Sluart v. Parnmr,74 1. Y. 183. The lots, the sums assessed
upon which had not been paid, were isolated parcels, not contiguous, and some of them not fronting upon the street. By
the statute of 1881, a sum equal to so much of the original
assessment as remained unpaid, adding a proportional part of
the expenses of making that assessment, and interest since,
was ordered by the legislature to be levied and equitably apportioned by the supervisors of the county upon and among
thbse lots, after public notice to all parties interested to appear
and be heard upon the question of such apportionment; and
that sum was levied and assessed accordingly upon these lots,
one of which was owned by the plaintiff.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opimon of the Coutt.

The question subniitted to the Supreme Court of the State
was whether this assessment on the plaintiffs lot was valid.
Re contended that the statute of 1881 was unconstitutional
and void, because4t was an attempt by the legislature to validate a void assessment, without giving th7 owners of the lands
assessed an opportunity to be heard upon the whole amount
of the assessment. He thus directly, and in apt words, presented the question whether he had been unconstitutionally
deprived of his property without due process of law, m violation of the first section of the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States, as well as of art. 1, sec. 7,of the Constitution of ew York; and no specific mention of
either constitutional provision was necessary in order to entitle
him to a decision of the question by any court having jurisdiction to determine it. The adverse judgment of the Supreme
Court, affirmed by the Court of Appeals of the State, necessarily involved a decision against a right claimed under the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of thu United
States, which this court has jurisdiction to review. Bridge
Pr&r2ietoms v. Hooken o., 1 Wall. 116, 142, .wray v.
O(harlstwz, 96 U._S. 432, 442, Fzrnzan v. Nichol, 8 Wall. 44,
56; Chicago .LifeITm. Co. v. eedlaq. 113 U. S. 574, 579.
The jurisdiction of this court, as is well understood, does
not extend to a review of the judgment of the State court, so
far as it depended upon the Constitution of the State. _Provident Istitution for Savings v. Jersay Cit/, 113 U. S. 506, 514.
Yet, as the words of the two constitutions are alike in this
respect, the decisions of the highest court of the State upon
the effect of these words are entitled to great weight. The
substiince of the former decisions, and the grounds of the
judgment sought to be reviewed, can hardly be more compactly or forcibly stated than they have been by Judge Finch
in delivering the opinion of the Cot t of Appeals, as follows:
"The act of 1881 determines absolutely and conclusively
the amount of tax to be raised, and the property to be assessed
and upon which it is to be apportioned. Each of these things
was within the power of the legislature, whose action cannot
be reviewed in the courts upon the ground that it acted un-

SPENCER v. MERCHANT.
Opinion of the Court.

justly or without appropriate and adequate reason. itofleld
v. Yermm, 41 1N. Y. 123, 141; Peop7e v. Brooklyn, 4 1. Y.
--27; Peolk v. FZagg, 46 !N.Y. 405, Zrom v. M'ew ot&, 88
N. Y. 100; Cooley on Taxation, 450. The legislature may
commit the ascertainment of the sum to be raised and of the
benefited district to commissioners, but it is not bound to do
so, and may settle both questions for itself; and when it does
so, its action is necessarily conclusive -and beyond review.
Here an improvement has been ordered and made, the expense of which might justly have been imposed upon adjacent
property benefited by the change. By the act of 1881, the
legislature imposes the unpaid portion of the cost and expense,
with the interest thereon, upon that portion of the property
benefited which has thus far borne none of the burden. In so
doing, it necessarily determines two things, viz., the amount
to be realized, and the property specially benefited by the
expenditure of that amount. The lands might have been benefited by the improvement, and so the legislative determination that they were, and to what amount or proportion of the
cost, even if it may have been mstakenly unjust, is not open
to our review The question of special benefit and the property to which it extends is of necessity a question of fact, and
when the legislature determines it in a case within its general
power, its decision must of course be final. We can see in the
determination reached possible sources of error and perhaps
even of injustice, but we are not at liberty to say that the tax
on the property covered by the law of 1881 was imposed without reference to special benefits. The legislature practically
determined that the lands described in that act were peculiarly
benefited by the improvement to a certain specified amount
which constituted a just proportion of the whole cost and
expense; and while it may be that the process by which the
result was reached was not the best attainable, and some other
might have been more accurate and just, we cannot for that
reason question an enactment within the general legislative
power. That power of taxation is unlimited, except that it
must be exercised for public purposes. "feisner v. .Dou z,
64 N. Y. 91. Certainly if the acts of 1869 and 1870 had
VOL. CXx-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinon of the Court.

never been passed, but the improvement of Atlantic Avenue
had been ordered, the legislature might have imposed one part
or proportion of the cost upon one designated district and the
balance upon another. Practically just that was done in this
case. In Re Tan Antwerp, 56 N. Y. 261, an assessment for a
street improvement had been declared void by reason- of failure to procure necessary consents of property-owners. The
legislature made a reassessment, imposig two thirds of the
expense upon a benefited district and one tird upon the .city
at large. The act was held valid as a new assessment and not
an effort to validate a void one.
"These views furnish also an. answer to the objection that
the only hearing given to the land-owner relates to the apportionment of the fixed amount among the lots assessed, and
none is given as to the aggregate to be collected. No hearing
would open the discretion of the legislature, or be of any avail
to review or change it. A hearing is given- by the act as to
the apportionment among the land-owners, which furnishes to
them an opportunity to raise all pertinent and available questions, and dispute their liability, or its amount and extent.
The precise wrong of which complaint is made appears to be
that the land-owners now assessed never had opportunity to
be heard as to the original apportionment, and find themselves
now practically bound by it as between their lots and those of
the owners who paid. But that objection becomes a criticism
upon the action of the legislature and the process by which it
determined the amount to be raised and the property to be
assessed. Unless by special permission, that is a hearing never
granted in the process of taxation. The legislature determines expenditures and amounts to be- raised for their payment, the whole discussion and all questions of prudence and
propriety and justice being confided to its jurisdiction. It
may err, but the courts cannot review its discretion. In this
case, it kept within its power when it fixed, first, the amount
to be raised to discharge the improvement debt incurred by its
direction, and, second, when it designated the lots and property, which in its judgment, by reason of special benefits,
should bear the burden, and having the power, we cannot

SPENCER v. MERCHANT.
Opinion of the Court.

criticise the reasons or manner of its action. The land-owners
were given a hearing, and-so there was no constitutional objection in that respect. iNor was that hearing illusory. It
opened to the land-owner an opportunity to assail the consti-

tutional validity of the act under which alone an dpportionment could be made, and that objection failing, it opened the
only other possible questions, of the mode and amounts of the
apportionment itself. We think the act was constitutional."
100 N. Y. 587-589.
The general principles, upon which that judgment rests,
have been affirmed by the decisions of this court.
The power to tax belongs exclusively to the legislativ.e
branch of the government. United State8 v. New OrZeanm,
98 U. S. 381, 392; X74wete r v. Gairett,102 U. S. 4:72. In

the words of Chief Justice Chase, condensing what had been
said long before by. Chief Justice Marshall, "The judicial
department cannot prescribe to the legislative department
limitations upon the exercise of its actmowledged powers.
The power to tax maj be exercised oppressively upon persons; but -the responsibility of the legislature is.not to the
courts, but to the people by whom its members are elected."
Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, 548; .XAtCullook v. .ryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 428; ProvidenceBank v. B7inhg, 4 Pet.
514, 563. See also Krtland v. Botkhkoie8, 100 U. S. 491, 497.
Whether the estimate of the value of land for the purpose of
taxation exceeds its true value, this court on writ of error to a
State court cannot inquire. Kelby v. PittZurgk, 101 U. S.
78, 80.
The legislature, in the exercise of its power of taxation,
has the right to direct the whole or a part of the expense of
a public imtrovement, such as the laying out, grading or repairing of a street, to be assessed upon the owners of lands
benefited thereby; and the determination of the territorial
district which should be taxed for a local inprovement is
within the province of legislative discretion. Ifillard v. Presbury, 14 Wall. 676; Davidso, v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97;
fobiZ County v. imball, 102 U. S. 691, 703, '704; Hag'ar v.
Recamation Distzcnt, 111 U. S. 'tOl. If the legislature pro-

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

vides for notice to and hearing of each proprietor, at some
stage of the proceedings, upon the question what proportion
of the tax shall be assessed upon his land, there is no taking
of his property without due process of law. M.Mi n v.
Avdemon, 95 U. S. 37, Davio v. few Orkeanm, and Hagar
v. ?ecZmation .Distrt,above cited.
In Davidm v. .2Vew Orkeans, it was held that if the work

was one which the State had the authority to do, and to pay
for by -ssessments on the property benefited, objections that
the sum raised was -exorbitant, and that part of the property
assessed was not benefited, presented no qudstion under the
Fourieenth Amendment to the Constitution, upon which this.
court could review the decision of the State court. 96 U. S.
100, 106.
In the absence of any mdre specific constitutional restriction than the general prohibition against taking property without due process of law, the legislature of the State, having the
power to fix the sum necessary to be levied for the expense
of a public improvement, and to order it to be assessed, either,
like other taxes, upon property generally, or only upon the
lands benefited by the improvement, is authorized to determine both the amount of the whole tax, and the class of lands
which will receive the benefit and should therefore bear the
burden, although it may, if it sees fit, commit the ascertainment of either or both of these facts to the judgment of commissioners.
When the determination of the lands to be benefited is
entrusted to commissioners, the owners may be entitled to
notice and hearing upon the question whether their lands are
benefited and how much. But the legislature has the power
to determine, ,by the statute imposing the tax, what lands,
which might be benefited by the improvement, are in fact
benefited; and if it does so, its determination is conclugwe
upon the owners and the courts, and the owners have no right
to be heardupon the question whether their lands are benefited
or not, but only upon the validity of the assessment, and its
apportionment among the different parcels of the class which
the legislature has conclusively determined to be benefited.

SPENCER v. MERCHANT.
Opinion of the Court.

In determining -what lands are benefited by the improvement, the legislature may avail itself of such information as
it deems sufficient, either through investigations by its committees, or by adopting as its own the estimates or conclusions
of others, whether those estimates or conclusions previously
had or had not any legal sanction.
In § & of the statute of 1869, the assessment under which
was held void in Stuart v. -Pamer,-74 N. Y. 183, for want of
any provision whatever for notice or hearing, the authority to
determine what lands, lying within three hundred feet on
either side of the street, were actually benefited, w s delegated to commissioners.
But in the statute of 1881 the legislature itself determined
what lands were benefited and should be assessed. By this
statute the legislature, in substance and effect, assumed that
all the lands within the district defined in the statute of 1869
were benefited in a sum equal to the amount of the original
assessment, .the expense of levying it, and: interest thereon;
and determined that the lots upon which no part of that
assessment had been paid, and which had therefore as yet
borne no share of the burden, were benefited to the extent of
a certain portion of this sum. That these lots as a whole had
been benefited to this extent was conclusively settled by the
legislature. The statute of 1881 afforded to the owners notice
and hearing upon the question of the:equitable apportionment
among them of the sum directed to be levied upon all .of
them, and thus enabled them to contest the constitutionality
of the statute; and that was all the notice and hearing to
which they were entitled.
It is objected to the validity of the new assessment, that it
included interest upon the unpaid part of the old assessment,
and a proportionate part of the expense of levying that
assessment. But, as to these items, the case does not substantially differ from. what it would have been if a sum equal to
the whole of the original assessment, including the expense of
levying it, and adding the interest, had been ordered by the
statute of.1881 to be levied upon all the lands within the district, allowing to each owner, who had already paid his share

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Dissenting Opinion. Matthews, Harlan, JJ.

of the original assessment, a credit for the sum so paid by
him, with interest from the time of payment.
Judgment affliked.
MATrws, with whom concurred Nt.
dissenting.

Mn. JusTicE
HARLA",

TuSTiE

I am unable to agree with the-judgment of the court in this
case, and will state very briefly the ground of my dissent.
In Stuart v. Palmer,74 . Y. 183, the Court of Appeals of
the State of New York declared the statute of the State of
New York of 1869, chapter 217, as amended by the statute
of 1870, chapter 619, and the assessment made in pursuance
thereof, to be unconstitutional and void. In the opimon of the
court in that case, delivered by Earl, Tudge, and which was
the unanimous opinion of the court, the ground of its judgment
was stated as follows (p. 188). "I am of opinion that the Constitution sanctions no law imposing such an assessment without
a no-tce to, and a hearing, or an opportunity of hearing, by
the owners of the property to be assessed. It is not enough
that the owners may by chance have notice, or that they may
as a matter of favor have a hearing. The law must require
notice to them, -and give them a right to a hearing, and an
opportunity to be heard. -It matters not, upon the question of
the constitutionality of such a law, that the assessment has infact been fairly apportioned. The constitutional validity of
law is to be tested, not by what has been done under it, but
by what may by its authority be done. The legislature may
prescribe the kind of notice, and the mode in which it shall be
given, but it cannot dispense with all notice." And, on page
190, it was further said: "The legislature can no more arbitrarily impose an assessment,'for which property may be taken
and sold, than it can render a judgment against a person without a hearing. It is a rule founded upon the first principles
of natural justice, older than written constitutions, that a citizen shall not be deprived of his life, liberty, or property without
an opportunity to be heard in defence of his-rights, and the
constitutional provisimo that no person shall be deprived of

SPENCER V. IERCHANT.
Dissenting Opinion. Matthews, HarIan,. JJ.

these 'without due process of law,' has its foundatio4 1in this
rule. This provision is the most important guaranty of personal rights to be found in the Federal or State Constitutions.
It is a limitation upon an arbitrary power, and is a guaranty
against arbitrary legislation. No citizen shall arbitrarily'be
deprived o his life, liberty, or property. Tins the legislature
cannot do, nor authorize to be done. 'Due.process of law' is
not confined to judicial proceedings, but extends to every case
winch may deprive a 'citizen of life, liberty, or property,
whether the proceeding be judicial, administrative, or executive in its nature. 'Weimer v. Bun ury, 80 Mich. 201. This
great guaranty is always and everywhere present to protect
the citizen against arbitrary interference with these sacred
rights."
Accordingly, the assessment for the expense of Tegulating
and grading the avenue under the act of 1869, as amended by
the act of 1870, was declared null and void as agaanst parties
refusing to pay.
Subsequently, .by the statute of 1881, chapter 689, the legislature of New York directed the levy to be made upon the
lands, the assessment made upon which under the act of 1869
had been declared void and cancelled, of the same sum which
had been assessed under the act of 1869, together with Interest
thereon to February 1, 1879, amounting to 88293.33, and futher interest thereon at six per cent per annum from February
1, 1879, to the date of such levy. This act required the Board
of Supervisorsof Kings County to apportion tins sum among
the several parcels of land mentioned, after giving ten days'
notice of the time and place when they would meet to make
such apportionment, to the parties interested in said lands, who
should be entitleq to be heard before the board upon the question of the apportionment. It is to be observed however, that
this apportionment is only to be made as between the rands in
respect to which the prior assessment had been cancelled as
being void. The question of the original apportionment between those lands and the remaining lands, on winch the
owners had paid the first assessment, was not left open under
the act of 1881. By this act, therefore, the owners of the lands

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Dissenting Opinion. Matthews, Harlan, JJ.

in question were deprived of the opportunity of being heard
upon the question whether the apportionment as between them
and the other land owners, embraced within the original assessment district for the same improvement, was equitable and
fair. They were, therefore, deprived.by the act of 1881 of the
vdry thing of which they were deprived by the act of 1869, on
account of which the Court of Appeals of lew York held the
latter act to be-unconstitutional and void. It is impossible for
me, therefore, to reconcile the opimon of the Court of Appeals
of New York now under review and the opinion of the same
court in the case of S&bu l v. Pamer. The same objection
appliesto both statutes with equal force. As I think the Court
.of Appeals was right in its judgment upon the first statute, I
am of opinion that its judgment upon the act of 1881, involved
in this writ of error, should be reversed.
The argument against this conclusion, which seems to be
chiefly relied on, is, that in the act of 1881 the legislature
made a new assessment upon a new assessment district created for that purpose by the statate, and fixed- the whole
amount to be Taised, leaving the question of apportionment
open as between the parties, upon notice and a hearing, and
that all this was within the admitted competency of the legislative power of the State, the exercise of which cannot be
construed as depriving the parties of their property without
due process of law But it seems to be a mere evasion to say
that this was an original assessment upon a district created by
law for that purpose, consisting-of the lands adjudged by the
legislature to be benefited by the improvement. The hnprovement was ordered by-the act of 1869, and the assessment
district was created by it-, and so far as the laying out of the
street and the appropriation of. private property for that purpose, and awarding damages to the owners thereof, and
assessing the amount of such awards, and the attendant expenses upon the lands lying within three hundred feet on
either side of the avenue, which in the judgment of the commissioners should be benefited by opening and extending the
street, that act and what wae thus far done under it were not
invalidated, but were held to be in conformity with the Con.

SAGE v. M1EMPHIS &c. RAILROAD CO.
Syllabus.

stitution. In the act of 1881, the legislature of New York
did not profess to undo anything which had been dotie under
the act of 1869, and certainly did not begin & novo in dealing
with the improvement. On the contrary, they took that
portion of the old assessment for the expense of regulating,
grading, and preparing the street for travel which remained
unpaid, and which had been declared to be void, and revived
it by a mere act of legislation as agamst the parties who had
been judicially declared not to be bound by it, adding interest
upon it from the time when it was first charged tp the State
by virtue of the cancellation, as well as a part of the expenses
incurred in maling the original assessment. Such an act of
the legislature seems to me to be in violation of that provision
of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution
which declares that no State shall deprive any person of his
property without due process of law.
I am authorized by Mm. 'JusioE H.pzi to say that he
concurs in these views.

SAGE v. MEMPBIS AND LITTLE ROCK RAILROAD COMPANY.
MEMPHIS AND LITTLE ROCK RAILROAD
COMPANY v. SAGE.
APPEAI,

FROM THE OIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF APMAiTSAS.

Nos. 128, 127. Argued January 0, 9, 1888. -Decded

7Mrch i9,

1888.

Whether a receiver of the property of a railroad company shall he appointed

by a court of equity, is a matter within the discretion, of the court, and
this discretion is to be exercised sparingly, and with great caution, and
with reference to the special circumstances of each case as it arises.
A bill in equity, brought by a judgment creditor of a railroad company
against the company, which alleges in substance that the property of the
company Is so heavily mortgaged that i the plamtiil should attempt to
enforce payment of his debt by seizure and sale on execution there would

