OCTOBER TERMt, 1887.
Syllabus.

list. When he was afterwards transferred by the action of
the President and Senate-"from the furlough to the retired
pay list," his at-u as a retired officer was not changed. He
still remained an officer retired for incapacity which did not
originate in the line of duty, but his pay was raised from that
of an officer retired "1on furlough pay" to that of one retired
on half sea pay. In other words, he was taken from the furlough list and put on the list of those-retired under circumstances which brought them within the second clause of §
1588, instead of the first. The object of the statute is not to
enable the President and Senate to vacate the finding of the
retiring board that the incapacity of the officer did not "originate in the line of duty," and to decide that it was "the result of an incident of the service," but to afford a means for
his relief from the consequences 6f such a finding, to the extent
of adding to his pay the difference between the half of leave
of absence pay 4nd the half of sea pay. It may have been
intended as a provision for a remedy for wrongs done by retiring boards, but it limited the power of the President and Senate in that behalf to a transfer of the name of the officer
from "the furlough to the retired pay list." The cause of his
retirement still remains the same, and determines his position
on the "retired pay list."
The judgment of the Court of Claims is
-Afflpmed.

UN3ITED STATES o. BURCHARD.

BURCARD v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
ios. 155,1332. Argued February 2, I8SS.-DecIde

Match 19, 1888.

An appeal, docketed here January 7, 1888, from a 3udgmnent of the Court of
Claims winch was entered February4, 1884, is dismissed for want of due
prosecution.
Potts v. Mited States, ante, 173, affirmed and applied to the case.

UNITED STATES v. BURCHARD.
Opinion of the Court.
Section 1594, Rev. Stat. authorizing the'transfer of a retired officer of the
navy from the furlough to the retired pay list being intended to afford relief from the consequences of the findings of retiring boards, should be
construed liberally: and being so construed, it is held that the President
has power under it, with the advice and consent of the Senate, to make
the transfer relate back to a time when, in his 3udgment, It ought to have
been granted.
In an action in the Court of Claims.by an officer to recover a balance clai ed
to be due him on pay account, the United States can setlp as a counterclaim an alleged overpayment to hun on that account, and can have judgment for it if established.

TmE case is stated in the opinion of the couit.

.A&. Beher J. Nay for the United States.
Gene'aZ was with him on the brief.
.-Mr. J'ohn Pau t"ones and

.Mr'. Attorney

.fr.Robert B. Jenes for Bur-

chard.
My- O=F JvsTion WAnmn delivered the opinion of the court.
Jabez Burchard, an assistant engineer in the navy, was examined by a retiring board orgamzed'under § 1448 of the Revised Statutes, and the board reported that he was incapacitated
from active service, and "that his incapacity was not the result
of an incident of the service." The statutes regulating such a;proceeding are given in full in Potts v. The United tates,
an't, 173, just decided. .The President approved the findings,
and Burchard was retired on furlough pay, October 26, 1814.
On the 1st of :March, 1877, the Secretary of the lNavy addressed
a letter to the Fourth Auditor of the Treasury, stating that
"upon a full review.of all the facts in the case . . .the department is of opinion that the causes-which incapacitated'
hun [Burchard]. for active duty were incident to the s.rvice,
and that he should hf.ve the higher rates of pay allowed to
retired officers by § 1588"of the Revised Statutes."
On tle 1st of arch, 1878, the President made the following
nomination:
"To the Senate of the United States
"In accordance with § 159. of the Revised Statutes, I norVOL. cx=v-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the -Court.

inate Jabez Burchard assistant engineer, to be transferred from
the furlough to the retired pay list. of the navy from the 26th
of October, 1874.
"R

B. B1&xs."

On the 25th of March, 18118, the Senate advised and consented to the appointment as follows11Resolved, That the Senate advise and consent to the appointment of Assistant Engineer Burchard to be transferred
from the furlough to the retired pay list from the 9,6th of
October, 1874, agreeably to the nomination."
On the 1st of April, 18178, Burchard was notified of this
transfer.
From the 26th of October, 1874, until the 1st of April, 1878,
he. has been paid seventy-five per cent of the sea pay for the
grade or rank which lie held at the time of retirement, being
$1275 a year. Since April 1, 1878, he has been paid $850 a
year, under the second clause of § 1688-hs half sea pay
lHe brought this suit on the 5th of September, 1883, to recover
the difference between one-half and three-quarters of sea pay
from April 1, 1878. The United States set up by way of
counter-claim that he had been overpaid $1168.75 for his salary
from April 1, 1875, to March 31, 1878, and asked judgment
for that amount. The Court of Claims, on the 4th -of February, 18S4, dismissed both the petition and counter-claun.
From that judgnent both parties appealed. That of the
United States was docketed in this court Oct6ber 24-, 1884,
which was during the return term, but that of Burchard was
not docketed until January 7, 1S88, and he did nothing here ia
the mean time to make himself an actor in that behalf. For
that reason his appeal is dismissed for want of due prosecution, on the authority of T7e S. S. Osborne, 105 U. S. 447.
See also Hiton v. -Dic-inson,108 U. S. 165, 168; Te To;vado, 109 U. S.110, 117.
We have, then, for consideration only the questions which
arise on the appeal of the United States. The suit was brought
to recover a balance claimed to be due for pay after March 31.
1878. The counter-claimn is for moneys alleged to have been

UNITED STATES v. BURCEIARD.
Opinion of thb Court.

overpaid between October 26, 1874,and March 3.1, 1878. As
the petition of Burchard was dismissed because he had already
been paid in full for all he was e4titled to after March 31,
1878, the appeal of the United States brings up only the questions presented by the counter-clann. These are, first, as to
the amount which Burchard was actually entitled to for his
pay between October 26, 184, and April 1, 1818, after his
transfer "from the furlough to the retired pay list," and
second, as to the right of the United States to recover back
aniy amount he may have been paid over what he was actually
entitled to by law.
As to the first of these questions it was settled in the case of
rPo, ante, 173, that he was in no event entitled to more thati.
half sea pay, and that all he got over that was by a mistake
of the accounting officers. Whether he was entitled to more
than half of leave of absence pay before April 1, 1878,depends
on the effect of the action of the ]?resident, with the advice
and consent of the Senate, in antedating the transfer so as to
make it relate back to October 26, 1874, when the nomination
to the Senate was not actually made until Mfarch 1, 18718.
What is now § 1594 of the Revised Statutes was originally
enacted as part of § 3 of the act of January 16, 1857, (c. 12, 11
Stat. 13,,) "to amend an act of February 28, 1855, (c. 127,
10 Stat. 616,) breing 'an act to promote the efficlency of the.
N~avy,' and it was evidently intended to enable the President,
with the advice and consent of the Senate, to relieve a deserving officer to a limited extent from the consequlnces- of .the
findings of retiring boards. Under such circumstances it
should in our opinion be liberally construed in favor of justice.
This case may fairly be taken for illustration. The law requires a record of the proceedings and decision of the retiring
board to be made and transmitted to the Secretary of the
Navy, and by him laid before the President for his approval
or disapproval, or orders in the case. At first the findings in
this case were approved, and orders made thereon, but afterwards the department became satisfied on refxamination
that the findings were wrong,. and that the incapacity was
actually the result of causes incident to the service. Neither

OCTOBER TERMt, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

the department nor the President could then change the findings, as they had already been approved, and were no longer
open to review The action of the President was equivalent
to the judgment of an appropriate tribunal upon the facts as
found. That judgment as a judgment could not be disturbed,
but under this statement it was just within the power of the
President, with the. advice and consent of the Senate, to relieve
the officer to some extent from its consequences by transferring him from furlough to retired pay. There is no prohibition against antedating such a transfer. The statute simply
says that the President, by and with the advice and consent
of the Senate, may make it, and in our opinon he may with
like advice and consent determine whether it shall operate only
in the future, or relate back to a time when in his judgment
it ought to have been granted. It follows that Burchard, by
this action of the President and Senate, became entitled to
half sea pay froni October 26, 1874. He has thus been overpaid only to the extent of one-fourth of sea pay from October
26, 1874:, to March 31, 1878, or at the rate of $125 a year.

It only remains to consider whether the amotint which has
thus been paid, or as much thereof as is embraced in the
counter-claim, can be recovered back in this action, and we
are of the opinion that it can. The action was brought by
Burchard to recover a balance claimed to be due on pay
account from the date of his retirement. He had been paid
according to his present claim until April 1, 1878, and consequently there was nothing to complain of back of that date.
But in reality-the account had never been closed, and was
always open to adjustment. Overpayments made at one time
by mistake could be corrected and properly charged against
credits coming in afterwards. His pay was fixed by law, and
the disbursing officers of the department had no authority to
allow him any more. If they did, it was in -violation of the
lawi and he has no right to keep what he thus obtained.
Whether the government can m any case be precluded from
reclaiming money which has been paid by its disbursing and
accounting officers under a mistake of law, is a question which
it is not now necessary to decide any more than it was in

PEMINA MILNING CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.

181

Syllabus.

'Ilrat v. nited States, 102 U. S. 426, 441, when it was
suggested. This is a case where the disbursing officer, Supposing that a retired officer of the navy was entitled to
more than it turns out the law allowed, have overpaid him
Certainly under such circumstances the mistake may be cor-.
rected. It follows that the judgment against the United.
States upon the counter-claim must be reversed, and the cause
remanded for further proceedings not mconsistent with this
opinion. It is consequently so ordered.

PEMBINA CONSOLIDATED SILVER MINING AND
MILLING COMPANY v. PENNSYLVANIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
2To. 189. Argued February 16, 185.-Decided March 19, 1888.
The exaction of a license fee by a State to enable a corporation organized
under the laws of another State to have an office within its limits for the
use of the officers, stockholders, agents, or employ~s of the corporation,
does not impinge upon the commercial clause of the Federal Constitution (Article I, section VIII, clause 3), provided the corporation Is
neither engaged in carrying on foreign or Interstate commerce, nor employed by the government of the United States.
Corporations are not citizens wvithin the meanmg of the clause of the ConstItutioq declaring that the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all
privileges and immunities of citizens in the several Statt:3, Article IV,

sectin II, clause 1.,
A private corporation is included under the designation of "person" in the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution, section L
The provisions in the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution, section 1,
that "no State shall deny to any person within Its jurisdiction the equal
protection of the laws," do not prohibit a State from requiring for the
admission within its limits of a corporation of another State such conditions as it chooses.
The only limitation upon the power of a State to exclude a foreign corporation from doing business within its limits, or hiring offices for that
purpose, or to exact conditions for allowing the corporation to do .business or hire offices there, arises where the corporation is in the employ
of the federal government, or where its business is strictly commerce,
interstate or foreign.

