OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

ment see Barbier v., Connolly, 113 U. S. 27, Soon Hing v.
Urowley, 113 U. S. 703;
iJRfiouri v. Lewzs, 101 U. S. 22, 80;
.iwsou,
-Pa&1c Railwcay Co. v. H-anzes, 115 U. S. 512;
Xic TWro v. Mopkins, 118 U. S. 356 ; l-acyes v. Jsisonr, 120

U. S. 68.
The only limitation upon this power of the State to exclude
a foreign corporation from doing business within its limits, or
hiring .offices for that purpose, or to exact conditions for
allowing the corporation to do business or hire offices there,
arises where the corporation is in the employ of the federal
government, or where its business is strictly commerce, interstate or foreign. The control of sich commerce, being in the

federal government, is not to be restricted by state authority.
Judgrnent affli-med.

11r. JusTicE BrADLEY was not present at the argument of
this cause and took no part m its decision.

MAYN'ARD v.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME

coUR

ILL.
OF TiHE TERRITORY OF

WASHINGTON.
ITo. 194. Argued February 16,17,188.-Decded 2,arch 19, 188.

A territorial statute of Oregon, passed in 1852, dissolving the bonds of
matrimony between husband and wife, the husband being at the time a
resident of the Territory, was an exercise of "tle legislative power of
the Territory upon a rightful subject of legislation," according to the
prevaling 3udicial opinion of the country aid the understanding of the
legal profession at the time rhen the act of Congress establishing
the territorial government was passed, August 14, 1848, 9 Stat. 323.
The general practice iithis country of legislative bodies to grant divorces
stated.
The ranting of divorces being within the competency of the legislature of
the Territory, its motives in passing the act In question cannot be Inquired into. Having purlsdiction to legislate upon the status of the hus-

3.AYNARD v. HILL.
Statement of the Case.
band, he being a resident of the Territory at the time, the validity of the
act is not affected by the fact that it was passed upon his application,
without notice to or knoledge by his wife; who, with their children,
had been left by him two years before in Ohio, under promise that he
-wouldreturn or send for them within two years.
Marriage is something more -than a mere contract, though founded upon
the agreement of the parties. When once formed, a relation is created
between the parties which they cannot change; and the rights and oblio
gations of which depend not upon their agreement; but upon the law,
statutory or common. It is an Institution of s6ciety, regulated and controlled by public authority. Legislation, -fherefore, affecting this institution and annulling the relation between the parties is not -within the
prohibition of the Constitdtion of the United States against the impairment of contracts by state legislation.
NIor Is such legislation prohibited by the last clause of Article 2 of the Ordinance of the Northwest Territory, declaring that "no law ought ever to
be made or have force in said Territory that shall in any manner whatever interfere with or affect private contracts- or engagements bona .fide
aud without fraud, previously formed;"
-which clause was, by the organic
act of Oregon, enacted and made applicable to the inhabitants of that
Territory.
Under the Oreg9n Donation Act, 9 Stat. 496, c. 76, the statutory grant
took effect as a complete grant only on the termination of the four years'
term of residence and cultivation; and the wife of a resident settling
under the act as a married man, 'who was divorced from him after the
commencement of his settlement, but before its completion, took no
interest under the act in the title subsequently acquired by him. He had,
previous to that time, no vested interest In the laud, only a possessory
right, -a right to remain on the land so as to enable him t6 comply with
the conditions upon which the titlewas to pass to him.

THE case, as stated by the court, was as follows:
This is a suit in equity to charge the defendants, as trustees
of certain lands in King County, Washington' Territory, and
compel a conveyance thereof to the plaintiffs. The lands are
described as lots 9, 10, 13, and 14, of section 4; and lots 6, 7,
8, and 9, of section 5, in township 2- north, range 4 east,

Willamette meridian. The case cones here on appeal from a
judgnent of the Supreme Court of the Territory, sustaining
the defendants' demurrer, and dismissing the complaint. The
material facts, as disclosed by the complaint, are briefly
these. In 1828 David S. Mtaynard and Lydia A. Mfaynard
intermarried in the State of Vermont, and lived there to--

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

gether as husband and wife until 1850, when-they removed to
Ohio. The plaintiffs, Henry C. Maynard and Frances J. Pa,
terson, are their children, and the only issue of the marriage.
David S. Maynard died intestate in the year 1873, end Lydia
A. Maynard in the year 1879. In 1850 the husband left his
family in Ohio and started overland for California, under a
promise to his wife that he would either return or send for her
and the children within two years, and that in the meantime
he would send her the means of support. He left her without
such means, and never afterwards contributed anything for
her support or that of the children. On the 16th of September following he took up his residence in the Territory of
Oregon, in that part which is -w Washington Territory, and
continued ever afterwards to reside there. On the 3d of
April, 1852, he settled upon and claimed, as a married man,
a tract of land of 640 acres, described. in the bill, under the
act of Congress of September 27, 1850, "creating the office of
s'arveyor general of public lands in'Oregon, and to provide for
the survey, and to make donations to settlers of the said public lands," and resided thereon until his death.
On the 22d day of December, 1852, an act was passed by
the Legislative Assembly of the Territory, purporting to dissolve the bonds of matrimony between him and his wife. The
act is in these words:
"An act to provide for the dissolution of the bonds of matrimony heretofore existing between D. S. Maynard and
Lydia A. Maynard, his wife.
"SEo. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the
Territory of Oregon, That the bonds of matrimony heretofore
existing between D. S. Maynard and Lydia A. Maynard be,
and the same are, hereby dissolved.
"Passed the House of Representatives Dec. 22d, 1852.
",B. F. HAnDiNG,
9CSpeaker of the Hfome of Re~resentadvea.
"Passed the Council Dec. 22d, 1852.
"M..
P. DEADoY,
ccPreside'it0ound7i."

31AYNARD

e. BILL.

Stateifent of the Case.

The complaint alleges that no cause existed at any time for
this divorce; that no notice was given to the wife of any
application by the husband for a, divorce, or of the introduction or pendency of the bill for that act in the legislative
Assembly; jhat she had no knowledge of the passage of the
act until July, 1853; that at the time she was not within
the limits or an inhabitant of Oregon; that she never became
a resident of either the Territory or State of Oregon; and
that she never in any manner acquiesced in or consented
to the act; and the plaintiffs insist that the Legislative
Assembly had no authority to pass the act; that the same
is absolutely void; and that the parties were never lawfully
divorced.
On or about the 15th of January, 1853, the husband thus
divorced intermarried with one Catherine T. Brashears, and
thereafter they lived together as husband and wife until his
death. On the 7'th of lNovember, 1853, he filed with the
Surveyor General of Oregon the certificate required under
the donation act of September 27, 1850, as amended by the
act of the 14th of February, 1853, accompanied with an
affidavit of his residence in Oregon from the 16th of September, 1850, and on the land claimed from April 3, 1852,
and that he was married to Lydia A. Mvaynard until the 24th
of December, 1852, having been married to her in Vermont
in August, 1828. The notification was also accompanied
with corroborative affidavits of two other parties. that he
had within their knowledge resided upon and cultivated the
land from the 3d of April, 1852.
On the 30th of April, 1850, he made proof before the reg.
ister and receiver of the land office of *the Territory of his
residence upon and cultivation of his claim for four years
from April 3, 1852, to and including April 3, 1856. Those
officers accordingly, in Mkay following, issued to him, and to
Catherine T. Maynard, his second wife, a certificate for the
donation claim, apportioning the west half to him and the
east half to her. This certificate was afterwards annulled by
the Commissioner of the General Land Office, on the groand
that, as it then appeared, and was supposed to be the fact,
VOL. cxxv-13

OGTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

Lydia A. Maynard, the Bxst wife, was dead, and. that her
heirs were therefore entitled to half of the claim.
On a subsequent'hearing before the register and receiver,
the first wife appeared, and th ey awarded the east half of
the claim to her and the west -half to the husband. From
this decision an appeal was taken to the Commissioner of
the General Land Ofic&, and from the decision of that officer
to the Secretary of the Interior. The Commissioner affirmed
the decision of the register and receiver so far as it awarded
the west half to the husband, but reversed the decision so
far as it awarded the east half to the flirst wife; holding
that neither wife was entitled to that half. He accordingly
directed the certificate as to the east half to be cancelled.
The Secretary affirmed the decision of the Commissioner,
holding that the husband had fully complied with all the
requirements of the law relating to settlement and cultivation, and was therefore entitled to the west half awarded
to him, for which a patent was accordingly issued. But the
Secretary also held that, at the time of the alleged divorce,
the husband possessed only -an inchoate interest in the lands,
and whether it should ever become a vested interest depended
upon his future compliance with the conditions prescribed by
the statute; that his first wife accordingly possessed no vested
interest in the property. He also held that the second wife
was not entitled to any portion of the claim, because she was
not his wife on the first day of December, 1850, or within
one year- from that date, which was necessary, to entitle her
to one-half of the claim under the statute; and the plaintiffs
insist that the decision of the Commissioner and Secretary in
this particular is erroneous, and founded upon a misapprehension of the law
Subsequently the east half of the claim was treated as
public land, and was surveyed and platted as such under
the direction of the Commissioner of the General Land Office.
The defendants Bill and Lewis, with full knowledge, as the
bill alleges, of the rights of the first wife, located" certain land
scrip, known as Porterfield land scrip, upon certain portions
of the land, and patents of the United States were issued to

MAYNARD v. HILL.
Argument for Aplellants.

them accordingly, and they are applicants for the remaining
portion. The compIlint alleges that the other defendant,
Flagg, claims some interest in the property, but the nature
and extent thereof are not stated.
Upon these facts the plaintiffs claim that they are the equitable owners of the lands patented to the defendants Hill and
Lewis, and that the defendants are equitably trustees of the
legal title for them. They therefore pray that the defendants
may be adjudged to be such trustees, and directed to convey
the lands to them by a good and sufficient deed; and for such
other and further relief in the premises as to the court shall
seem -meet and equitable.
To this complaint the defendants demurred on the ground
that it did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. The court sustained the demurrer, and gave judgment
thereon in favor of the defendants. -On appeal the Supreme
Court of the Territory came to the same conclusion: that the
complaint did not state a sufficient cause of action; that no
grounds for relief in equity appeared upon it; and that the defendants' demurrer should be sustained. Judgment was accordingly entered that the complaint be dismissed. To review
this judgment the case is brought to this court.
21r. C. .. HUanford for appellants.
with him on the brief.

itr. !rnry Beard was

I. Yraynard fulfilled the law so as to acquire a donation of
640 acres, one-lralf of which enured to hbis wife Lydia, as'her
donation, by the effect of the grant. Stark v. Stars, 6 IValL
402; Barzeygv. Do ph, 97 U. S. 652, 656; Wlirth v. Branson,
98 U. S. 118 ; .fansas Pacftc RasTway v. Atchison, Tqpeka,
and Santa Tf" .atilroad, 112 "U. S. -41-, 422; Fan Tckje v.
.nevals, 106 . S. 860; Malden v. .Emvals, 114 U. S. 373;
Missouri, .Zfansas, and Texas Railway v. ifansa Paci o
Railway, 97 U. S. 491.
The residence and cultivation are required of the settler
only. His wife's title is completed when his is. TFan -Doyf
v. Ois, 1 Oregon, 153; Fance v. Burbank, 101 U. S. 520;

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Appellants.

.Daveiortv. Xamb; 13 Wall. 418; YIall v. 1?usse4 101 U. S.
503.
Where -a bana, de settlement under the preemption laws is
made and those laws are fulfilled, the right of the claimant re]ates back to the date of the settlement, and cuts off intervening
claims. In case of two conflicting donations arising after the
grant, it seems quite clear that thed st settler, all other things
being equal, would have the better right. The title wtiuld relate
back to the date of settlement. This proposition is and has
been accepted by the local courts of Oregon, both the state
and United States courts. Lee v. Surnmers, 2 Oregon, 260,266; -Dol7p v. Barney, 5 Oregon, 190, 201; Ohlapma v.
SltooZ- District, Deady, 108, 113; Iamb v. .Davenjort, 1
Sawyer, 609, 632; Adams v. Burke, 3 Sawyer, 415.
I. As to the effect of the divorce law, if valid, upon the
rights of Lydia, it is pertinent to remark that it did not
attempt to deal with her donation, and it appears to be settled
on principle that it could not have defeated the donation if
the attempt had been made. We should not give it, fherefore, an effect not only not intended, but impossible.
She had no notice of the proceedings of the legislature, no
day in court to reply or reject, and if her property rights
could be affected by those proceedings, she was entitled to
notice under the fifth amendment of the Constitution of the
United States, which provides that: "No person shall . .
be deprived of life, liberty, or property without due process
of law." As to what is "due process of law," see Stuart v.
Palmer, '174 N. Y. 183, 191; Cooley on Const. Tim. 355.
But that statute was invalid, and the court below erred in
deciding that it was valid, as will be seen on examining the
current of the decisions in the courts of the United States.
Starr -v. Pease, 8 Conn. 541, decided in 1831, is usually
cited as the leading case on the side of the validity of legislative divorces. But the divorce in question in that case was
not legislative, but judicial, although it was granted by the
legislature. The record shows that the legislature in that
case acted m a judicial capacity and proceeded strictly according to judicial forms, just as Parliament always has in grant-

MA&YNARD 1. HILL.
Argument for Appellants.

Ing divorces. (See the divorce act recited in the report of the
case.) That decision does not maintain that the granting of a
divorce is a legislative function, or that the marriage tie of a
particular couple is a .righo'aZsubject of legislation, but it does
hold that prior to the adoption of the state constitution of
1818 the legislature of Connecticut possessed all power, legislative and judicial, with only a few limitations; that the constitution of 1818 is not a grant of power, but a limitation of
the powers previously belonging to the several branches of
the government; that the legislature was not by that constitution divested of the power, which previously belonged'to it,
of granting divorces.
Tfr2ght v. NFrig2t, 2 Maryland, 429; . . 56 Am. Dec.
7923, decided in December, 18529, and C'onwe v. Cronise, 5Penn. St. 255, decided in 1867, are very similar to the case of
,Starrv. Pease. They hold that in those two States the legislatures, having prior to the adoption of their constitutions
possessed power to grant divorces, still have the same power,
except as curtailed or limited by those instruments. In the
latter case it was held that the legislature could not grant a
divorce in any case in which the courts would have jurisdiction.
In Bingham v. .iller, 17 Ohio, 445; 5. . 49 Am. Dec. 471,
decided in 1818, the court emphatically decided the granting
of divorces to be a judicial and not a legislative function, and
that the legislature had no power to grant a divorce in any
case, but out of regard for supposed unpleasant consequences
to people not parties to the suit if effect should be given to
the law, the court gave judgment as if the law were the
reverse of what the court found.
Crane v. .fTeginnis, 1 G. & J. 463;' S. . 19 Am. Dec. 237,
decided in 1829, was a suit to recover alimony awarded by an
act of the legislature granting a divorce to the wife. Judgment was given for the defendant.
Townsend v. Grifl, 4 ]arrington (Del.) 440, decided in
1846, was a suit to enforce a judgment lien by creditors of
the husband against the wife's land after a divorce by the
legislature of Delaware. The court refused to give plaintiffs
the relief sought, but having doubts as to the validity of the
divorce act refrained from deciding that question.

OCTOBER TERI, 1887.
Axgument for Appellants.

In Gaines v. Gaines, 9 B. Mon. 295, S. C 48 Am. Dec. 425,
decided in 1848, pending a suit for a divorce and alimony, the
legislaturo granted a divorce at the husband's instance. After
the husband's death the wife claimed dower and the wife's
share of slaves and personal property, and thus brought in
question the validity of the divorce act. Thh court declined
to decide the question as to its effect upon the persons,.but
held it to be inoperative to divest property rights, even the
inchoate right of dower.
In A da=e v. .Pal7mr,51 Maine, 480, decided in 1863, the
court held a divorce granted by the legislature of Maine in
1846, with the consent of both parties, each of whom soon
afterwards contracted new marriage relations, to be valid.
In Cabe v. C'ael, 1 M[et. (Ky.) 319, decided in 1858, the
divorce drawn in question was granted by the legislature with
the consent of both parties. Reld valid.
iJaguirev. Xaguibe, TDana, 181, decided m 1838, has been
often cited as a case upholding the validity of a legislative
divorce, but the only point actually decided in that case was
that, under the then existing laws of Kentucky, the courts had
no 3urisdiction of a suit by a wife for a divorce- against her
husband, he being at the time not a resident of the State and
absent therefrom.
Although these cas~s are sometimes cited as upholding the
doctrine that divorces in this country by special legislative acts
are constitutional and Valid, they do -not support that doctrine,
but rather bear in the opposite direction. In connection with
some of these cases Judge Story has .said "that marriage,
thoagh it be a civil institution, is understood to constitute a
solemn obligatory contract between the parties; and it has
been arguendo denied that a state legislature constitutionally
possesses ajithority to dissolve that contract against the will
and without the default of either party." And in a note on
this passage Judge Cooley adds: "Such has been the view of
state courts in oeneral." 2 Story Const. 4th ed. § 1397.
State v. Rry, 4 Missouri, 120, decided in 1835, was a suit in
the name of the State to the use of Gentry and wife against a
guardian of the wife's estate. The defeudant pleaded in de-

IAYNARD v. HILL.
Argument for Appellants.

fence a special act of the legislature divorcing the plaintiffs.
A demurrer to this plea was sustained by the court on the
ground that the act was void. The report of the case contains the exhaustive and able arguments of counsel on both
sides, showing the case to have been well presented. Able
opinions were rendered by two of the justices, thoroughly discussing all the points bearing upon the validity of such acts
and holding them to be void.
The case has since been followed and reaffirmed in that
State by Bryson v. C/ampell, 12 Missouri, 498, decided vn
1849, Bryson v. Byson, 17 Missouri, 590, decided in 1853;
and by .Bryson v. Biyson, 44 Missouri, 232, decided in 1869.
la '. v. Clark7, 10 N. H. 380; S. C7. 3- Am. Dec. 165, decided in 1839, is a strong decision holding that marriage is ,
contract indissoluble except for misconduct sufficient to work
a forfeiture of rights, and that a divorce can be granted only
in a regular judicial proceeding.
It is to be noted that the alleged divorce now under consideration was by an act of a territorial legislature, and there is
a broad distinction, therefore, between this case and all the
cases arising under legislation by States. The following is a
list of the cases we have found in which the validity of a divorce granted by special act of a territorial legislature has
come in question in other jurisdictions: Ponder -v. Graham, 4
Florida, 23, decided in 1851; Levins v. Sleator, 2 Green
(Iowa), 604, decided in 1850; C7houtea v . Xtagennis, 28 Missouri, 187, decided in 1859; .Estateof Higbee, deceased, 5 West
Coast Rep. 505, decided in 1885.
A majority- of these cases - that is, all of them except the
Iowa case - deny that a territorial legislature has the power
to grant a divorce, and we invite a comparison of the opinions
in these different cases. It will be found that the Iowa decision is based upon premises and assumptions which must
have been avoided if more than a most careless or -superficial
examination of the sub3ect had been given by the court, and the
sentiments expressed are un-American. throughout, while the
opinions in the Florida, Missouri, and Utah cases are based upon
sound and incontrovertible arguments, and express only the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887'.
Airgument for Appellants.

most wholesome American ideas of government. It is to be
noted that prior to the passage of the organic act of Oregon
Territor~, in 1848, no divorce granted by a territorial legislature had been upheld in any reported case.
There are many other cases containing a vast amount of
obiter dicta, for and against the validity of legislative divorces,'
but as the point was not necessary to be considered in the
decisions rendered, they cannot be regarded in the light of
authority. The American authors and commentators who
have discussed the question, except Mr. Bishop, condemn the
practice and deny that divorce is a rightful subject of legislation. Judge Cooley says that "the general sentiment in the
legal profession is against the rightfulness of speolal legislative divorces." Cooley Const. Iam. 4th ed. 113. (Marginal.)
That the American people generally concur with the legal profession on this subject is evidenced by the fact that most of
the state constitutions expressly prohibit special legislative
divorces.
In 1826 Congress annulled several special acts of divorce
passed, by the legislature of the Territory of Florida (4 Stat.
16T, § 14), whereupon Chancellor Kent remarks : "This is an
instance of a strong national condemnation of the practice of
granting legislative divorces." 2 Kent Coin. 405, note a, 4th
ed. And his opinion of the action of Congress was concurred
in by the Supreme Court of Florida in the case of Pon-der v.
Graham, 4 Florida, 44.
But even if the authorities were otherwise and practically
unanimous, as the court below supposed we maintain that the
practice of granting divorces by spevial legislative acts. without the consent or fault of or notice to either party, is wrong;
that all decisions to the contrary are erroneous, and that error
oft repeated does not thereby become right, especially when
all the time met by counter-decisions.- Moreover, the question
is to be determined by the law of Oregon, and not by the law
of any of the States.
Although the power to grant divorces in England belongs
to and has been exercised by.Parliament, it does not follow
that similar power belongs to the legislatures of the States;

MAYNARD v. HILL.
Argument for Appellants.

and although the latter may have the .power, it does not follow that similar power is possessed by the legislatures of any
of the Territories, for, as we shall show presently, the latter
have only the powers expressly delegated to them by Congress. This point is made clear in Ponder v. Grahl am, Florida, 33. See also ffilourn v. Tomyson, 103 U. S. 183.
A divorce cannot be righo'uly granted in any case without
cause. To ascertain and declare the existence of sufficent
cause in a particular case is not a legislative but a judicial function, and judiciil power is not given to the legislature, but is
vested in the courts by the section of the orgamc act above cited.
By the fourteenth section of the organic law of Oregon
Territory the inhabitants thereof were granted all the rights,
privileges, and advantages secured to the people of the 1orthwest Territory by, and subjected to all the conditions and restrictions and prohibitions of, the articles of compact contained
in the ordinance of 1787. That ordinance provides that, "in
the just preservation of rights and property, it is understood
and declared that no law ought ever to be made or have any
force in the said territory that shall Muany manner interfere
with or affect private contracts or engagements, bona ide.and
without fraud, previously formed." Gen. Laws, Oregon, 59.
Lydia A. Tkhynard, at the time of the passage of the act,
was not within the Territory of Oregon, and being separated
from her husband, in fact without her fault, she was not affected by his change of domicile, but remained as he left her,
domiciled in Ohio. Such being the case, an act, passed without notice to her and without her consent, is void as to her.
Cheely v. Clayton, 110 U. S. '[01, '05; People v. Baker, 76
INT. Y. 78. The supposed act of divorce, being void for want
of power in the legislature, could acquire no vitality or become valid-by the mere failure of Congress to disapprove and
annul it. Congress had doubtless adjourned on M'larch 3,1853,
before a copy of the laws reached Washington. Lydia did not
hear of the transaction for over six months after its date, and
Catharine was married to Afaynard on the 15th of January,
1853.

Congress has exercised its power of annulling territorial

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Argument for Appellants.

statutes but sparingly, and there are many reasons- for this
other than a deliberate intention to acquiesce. Members of
Congress have neither the time nor inclination to study the
different enactmentsof the territories or perform the amount
of labor necessary to the passage of bills to annul the bad
ones; and it is preferable to leave the people to legislate for
themselves so long as the courts are open and free to pronounce void all such acts as are in violation of the Constitution or laws of the United States and such as the legislatures
have no power to pass.
The courts have pronounced many territorial statutes void
long after they have taken effect, although Congress had failed
to annul them. We will cite an instance of recent occurrence:
In 1883 the legislature of Washington Territory passed an act
extending the elective franchise to women. Under this act
women voted, were elected to and filled public offices, and
served as grand and petit jurors, and judgments were rendered
upon their presentments and verdicts, and afterwards, in 1887,
the supreme court of Washington Territory, in the case of
Blar1lnd v. The Trritory,13 Fac. Rep. 453, held this statute
void for want of a good title to express its object, as r~quired
by the organic act of the Territory, although Congress had
failed to annul the act. This decision was rendered by a
divided court,-but it has since been reaffirmed by.a unanimous
decision of the cour as now constituted.
In _Dunphy v. EfemsmitA and -Duer, 11 Wall. 610, this
court, iu effect though not in words, held the civil practice act
of Montana void, although it had been in operation in that
Territory several years, and had not been disappr6fed by Congress.
See also Pander v. G-aham (above cited), in which case it
is shown that evefi by an affirmative approval Congress could
not make such an act valid, because Congress has no judicial
power except as specified in the Constitution. and coula not
itself grant a divorce. This argument is conclusive on th6
point, and it is supported by the decision of this court in Xilbour v. Thwmpson, 103 U. S. 192. This latter case also contams a perfect answer to the suggestion of the court below,

MAYNARD v. HILL.
Opinion of the Court.

that the proceedings of the legislature in a matter affecting
individual rights cannot be reexamined in the courts at the
suit of the injured party.
In conclusion, we submit that this was an act of gross injustice to a blameless woman and her children, and the judgment
of the court below sustaining it ought to be reversed.
.X. Walter H. Smitk for appellee.
mii.

JUsTIOE YJ

UiE,after stating the .case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
As seen by the statement of the case, two questions are presented for our consideration: first, was the act of the Legislative Assembly of the Territory of Oregon of the 22d of December, 1852, declaring the bonds of matrimony between
David S. Iaynard and his wife dissolved, valid and. effectual
to divorce the parties, and, second, if valid and effectual for
that purpose, did such divorce defeat any rights of the wife to
a portion of the donation claim.
The act of Congress creating the Territory of Oregon, and
establishing a government for it, passed on the 14th of August, 184=8, vested the legislative power and authority of the
Territory in an Assembly, consisting of two boards; a Council
and a House of Representatives. 9 Stat. 323, c. 177, § 4. It
declared, § 6, that the legislative power of the Territory should
"extend to all rightful subjects of legislation not inconsistent
with the Constitution and laws of the United States," but that
no law should be passed interfering with the primary disposal
*of the soil: that no tax should be imposed upon the property
of the United States; that the property of non-residents should
not be taxed higher than the property of residents; and that
all the laws passed by the Assembly should be submitted to
Congress, and if disapproved should be null and of no effect.
It also contained various provisions against the creation of
institutions for banking purposes, or with authority to put
into circulation notes or bills, and against pledging the faith
of the people of the Territory to any loan. These exceptions
from the grant-of legislative power have no bearing upon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

questions presented.

The grant is made in terms similar to

those used in the act of 1836, under which the Territory of
Wisconsm was organized. It is stated in Cinton v. .Engk,brecht, 13 Wall. 434, 444, that that act seemed to have received full consideration; and from it all subsequent acts for
the organization of territories have been copied, with few and
inconsiderable variations. There were in the Kansas and
Nebraska acts, as there mentioned, provisions relating to slavery, and in some other acts provisions growing out of local
circumstances. With these, and perhaps other exceptions not
material to the questions before us, the grant of legislative
power in all the acts organizing territories, since that of Wisconsin, was expressed in similar language. The power was
extended "to all rightful subjects of legislation," to which
was added in some of the acts, as in the act organizing the
Territory of Oregon, "not inconsistent with the Constitution
and laws of the United States," a condition necessarily existing.in the absence of express declaration to that effect.
What were "rightful subjects of legislation" when these
acts organizing the Territories were passed, is not to be settled
by reference to the distinctions usually made between legislative acts and such as are judicial or administrative m their
character, but by an bxamination of the subjects upon which
legislatures had been in the practice of acting with the consent and approval of the people they represented. A long
acquiescence in repeated acts of legislation on particular matters, is evidence that those matters have been generally considered by the people as properly within legislative control.
Such acts are not to be set aside or treated as invalid, because
upon a-careful consideration of their character doubts may
arise as to the competency of the legislature to pass them.
Rights acquired, or obligations incurTed under such legislation,
are not to be impaired because of subsequent differences of opinion as to the department of government to which the acts are
properly assignable. With special force does this observation
apply, when the validity of acts dissolving the bonds of matrimony is assailed, the legitimacy of many children, the peace
of many families, and the settlement of many estates depend-

IAYNARD v. HILL.
Opinion of the Court.

ing upon its being sustained. It will be found from the history of legislation that, whilst a general separation has been
observed between the different- departments, so that no clear
encroachment by one upon the province of the other has been
sustained, the legislative department; when not restrained by
constitutional provisions and a regard for certain fundamental
rights of the citizen which are recognized in this country as the
basis of all government, has acted upon everything within the
range of civil government. Ioa Aesocatiom v Toekz, 20
Wall. 655, 663. Every subject of interest to the community
has come under its direction. It has not merely prescribed
rules for future conduct, but has legalized past acts, corrected
defects in proceedings, and determined the status, conditions,
and relations of parties in the future.
Mfarriage, as creating the m9st important relation in life, as
having more to do with the morals and civilization of a people
than any other institution, has always been subject to the control of the legislature. That body prescribes the age at -which
parties may contract to marry, the procedure or form essential
to constitute marriage, the duties and obligations it creates,
its effects upon the proper.y rights of both, present and prospective, and the acts which may constitute grounds for its
dissolution.
It is conceded that to determine the propriety of dissolvingthe marriage relation may involve investigations of a judicial
nature which can properly be conducted by the judicial tribunals. Yet such investigations are no more than those usually
made when a change of the law is designed. They do not
render the enactment, which follows the information obtained,
void as a judi6ial act because it may recite the cause of its
passage. M[any causes may arise, physical, moral, and intellectual - such as the contracting by one of the parties of an
incurable disease like leprosy, or confirmed insanity or hopeless
idiocy, or a conviction of a felony -which would render the
continuance of the marriage relation intolerable to the other
party and productive of no possible benefit.to society. When
the object of the relation has been thus defeated, and no jurisdiction is vested in the judicial tribunals to grant a divorce,

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

it is not perceived that any principle should prevent the legislature itself from interfering and putting an end to the relation
in the interest of the parties as well as of society. If the act
declaring the divorce should attempt to intefere with rights
of property vested in either party, a different question would
be presented.
When this country was settled, the power to grant a divorce
from the bonds of matrimony was exercised by the Parliament
of Englan4. The ecclesiastical courts of that country were
limited to the granting of divorces from bed and board.
Naturally, the legislative assemblies of the colonies followed
the example of Parliament and treated the subject as one
within their province. And until a recent period legislative
divorces have been granted, with few exceptions, in all the
States. Says Bishop, in his Treatise on Mkfarriage and Divorce"The fact that at the time of the settlement of this country
legislative divores were common, competent, and valid in
England, whence our jurisprudence was derived, makes them
conclusively so here, except where an invalidity is directly or
indirectly created by a,-written constitution binding the legislative power." § 664. Says Cooley, in his Treatise on Constitutional Limitations
"The granting of divorces from the
bonds of matrimony was not confided to the courts in England,
and from the earliest days the colonial and state legislatures
in this country have assumed to possess the same power over
the subject which was possess6d by the Pailiament, and. from
time to tilie they have passed special laws delaring a dissolution of the bonds of matrimony in special cases." p. 110.
Says Kent, in his dommentaries: "During the period of our'
colonial government, for more than one hundred years preceding the Revolution, no divorce took place in the colony of
New York, and for imny years after'New York became an
independent state there was not any lawful mode of dissolving
a marriage in the lifetime of the parties but by a special act
of the legislature." -2 Kent Com. 97. The same fact is stated
in numerous decisions of zhe highest courts of the States.
Thus, in C'onise.v. Cromse, 54 Penn. St. 255, 261, the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania said: "Special divorce laws

MAYNARD v. HILL.

Opinion of the Court.

are legislative acts. This power has been exercised from the
earliest period by the legislature of the province, and by that
of the State, under the constitutions of 1776 and 1790. . .
The continued exercise of the power, after the adoption of tlM
constitution of 1790, cannot be accounted for except on the
ground that all men, learned and unlearned, believed it to be
a legitimate exercise of the legislative power. This belief is
further strengthened by the fact that no judicial decision has
been made against it. Communis errorfaoit jus would be
-sufficient to support it, but it stands upon the higher ground
of contemporaneous and continued construction of the people
of their own instrument."
" In Crane v. -Negmiis, 1 G. and T. 463, 414, the Supreme
Court of :Maryland said: "Divorces in this State from the
earliest times have emanated from the .General Assembly, and
can'now be viewed in no other light than as regular exertions
of the legislative power."
In Stone v. Pease, 8 Conn. 511, decided in 1831,-the question arose before the Supreme Court of Connecticut as to the
validity of a legislative divorce under the constitution of 1818,
which provided for an entire separation of the legislative and
judicial departments. The court, after stating that there had
been a law in force in that State on the subject of divorces,
-passed 130 years before, which provided for divorces on four
grounds, said, spealing by Mr. Justice Daggett: "The law
has remained in substance the same as it was when enacted in
1667. During all this period the legislature has interfered like
the Parliament of Great Britain,, and passed special acts of
divorce a vinculo natrimwni,.; and at almost every session
since the Constitution of the United States went into operation, -nowforty-two years, and for thirteen years of the existence of the constitution of Connecticut, such acts have been,
in multiplied cases, passed and sanctioned by the constituted
authorities of our State. "Weare not at liberty to inquire into
the wisdom of our existing law on this subject, nor. into the
expediency of such frequent interference by the legislature.
We can only inquire into the constitutionality of the act under
consideration. The power is not prohibited either by the Con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

stitution of the United States or by that of the State. In
view-of the .appalling consequences of declaring the general
law of the State or the repeated acts of our legislature unconstitutional and vciid- consequences easily conceived but not
easily expressed, such as bastardizing the issue and subjecting
the parties to punishment for adultery- the court should
come to the result only on a solemn conviction that their oaths
of office and these constitutions imperiously demand it. .Feeling myself no such conviction, I cannot pronounce the act
void." It is to be observed that the divorce in this case was
granted on the petition of the wife, who alleged certain criminal intimacies of her husband with others, and the act of the

legislature recited that her allegation, after hearing her and
her husband, with their witnesses and counsel, was found to
be true. The mquiry appears to have been conducted with
the formality of a judicial proceeding, and mght undoubtedly
have been properly referred to the judicial tribunals, yet the
Supreme Court of the State did not regard the divorce as be-

yond the competency of the legislature.
The same doctrine is declared in' numerous other cases, and
positions similar to those taken agains.t the validity of the act
of the Legislative Assembly of the Territory, that it was beyond the competency of a legislature to dissolve the bonds of
iiatrimony, have been held untenable. These decisions justify
the -conclusion that the division of government auto three
'departments, and the implied inhibition through.that cause
upon the legislative department to exercise judicial functions
was neither intended nor understood to exclude legislative control over the marriage relation. In most of the States the
same legislative practice on the subject has prevailed since the
adoption of their constitutions as before, which, as Mir. Bishop
observes, may be regarded as a contemporaneous construction
that the power thus exercised for many years was rightly
exercised. The adoption of' late years in.many constitutions
of provisioifs prohibiting legislative divorces would also indicate a general conviction that without this prohibition such
divorces might be granted, notwithstanding the separatior of
the powers of government into departments by which judiial

MAYNARD v. HILL.
Opinion of the Court.

functions are excluded from the legislative department... There
are, it is true, decisions of State courts of hig6 character, like

the Supreme Court of Massachusetts and of Missouri, holding
differently; some of which were controlled by the peculiar
language of their state constitutions. Syarkawk v. Sparhaivk,
116 Mass. 315; State v. B'y, 4 Missouri, 120, 138. The weight
of authority, however, is decidedly in favor of the position
that, in the absence of direct prohibition, the power over
divorces remains with the legislature. -We are, therefore,
justified in holding-more, we are compelled to hold, that the
granting of divorces was a rightful subject of legislation
according to the prevailing judicial opinion of the country,
and the uniderstanding of the profession, at the time the organic
act of Oregon was passed by Congress, when either of the
parties divorced was at the time a resident within the terntonal jurisdiction of the legislature. If *within the competency of the Legislative Assembly of .the Territory, we cannot
inquire into its motives in passing the act granting the divorce;
its will was a sufficient reason for its action. One of. the
parties,- the husband, was a resident within the Territory, and
as lu) acted soon afterwards upon the dissolution an& married
again, we may conclude that the act was passed upon his petition. If the Assembly possessed the power to grant a divorce
in any case, its jurisdiction to legislate. upon his statds, he
being a resident of the Territory,. is undoubted, unless the
anarriage

was a contract within the prohibition of the rferal

Constitution against its impairment by legislation, or withir
the terms of the ordinance of 1-781, the privileges of which
were. secured to the inhabitants of Oregon by their organic
act, questions which we will presently consider.
The facts alleged in the bill of complaint, that no cause existed for the divorce, and that it was obtained without the
kmowledge of the wife, cannot affect the validity of the act.
Knowledge or ignorance of parties of intended legislation
does.-not affect its validity, if within the competency of the
legislature. The facts mentioned as to the neglect of the husband to send to his wife, whom he left in Ohio, any means for
her support or that of her children, in disregard -of his promVOL. CxxV-14

OCTOBER TER31, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

ise, shows conduct meriting the strongest reprobation, and if
the facts stated had been brought to the attention of Congress,
that body might and probably would have annulled the act.
Be that as it may, the loose morals and shameless conduct of
the husband can have no bearing upon the question of the
existence or absence of power in the Assembly to pass the act.
The organic act extends the legislative power of the Terntory to all rightful subjects of legislation "not inconsistent
with the Constitution and laws of the United States." The
only inconsistency suggested is, that it impairs the obligation
of the contract of marriage. Assuming that the prohibition
of the federal Constitution against the impairment of contracts by state legislation applies equally, as would seem to be
the opinion of the Supreme Court of the Territory, to legislation by territorial legislatures, we are clear that marriage is
not a contract within the meaning of the prohibition. As was
said by Chief Justice tarshall in the .Dartmouthi. ('oZlege Case,
not by way of judgment, but in answer to objections urged to
positions taken. "The provision of the Constitution never has
been understood to embraee other contracts than those which
respect property or some- object of value, and confer rights
which may be asserted in a court of justice. It never has
been understood to restrict the general right of the legislature
to legislate on the subject of divorces." 4 Wheat. 029. And
in Butle v. Pennsylvanza, 10 How. 402, where the question
arose whether a reduction of the pe' diem. compensation to
certain canal commissioners below that originally provided
when they took office, was an impairment of a contract with
them, within the constitutional prohibition, the court, holding
that it was not such an impairment, said- "The contracts
designed to be protected by the tenth section of the first article
of that instrument are contracts by which perfearetght , certain,deflnite,f=t.pedpivateTights of roperty are vested." p.416.
It is also to be observed that, whilst- marriage is often
termed by text writers and in decisions of courts a civil
contract-generally to Indicate that it must be -foundedupon
the agreement of the paties, and does not require any religious ceremony for its solemnization-it is something move

M1AYNARD v. HILL.
Opinon of the Court.

than a mere contract. The consent of the-parties is of course
essential to its existence, but when the contract to marry is
executed by the marriage, a relatign between the parties is
created which they cannot change. Other conrracts may bs
modified, restricted, or enlarged, or entirely released upon the
consent of the parties. :Not so with marriage. The relation
once formed, the law steps in and holds the parties to various
obligations and liabilities. It is an institution, in the maintenance of which ints purity the public is deeply interested,
for it is the foundation of the family and of society, without
which there would be neither civilization nor progress. This
view is well expressed by the Supreme Court of Maine in
.Adams v. Padmer, 51 Maine, 481, 483. Said ihat "court,
speaking by Chief Justice Appleton:
ti When the contracting parties have entered into the married state, they have not so much entered into a contract as
into a new relation, the rights, duties, and obligations of
which rest not upon their. agreement, but upon the general
'law of the State, statutory or common, which defines and
prescribes those rights, duties, and obligations. They are of
law, not of contract. It was of contract that the relation
should be established, but, being established, the power of the
parties as to its extent or. duration is at an end. Their rights
under it are determined by the will of the sovereign, as. evidenced by law. They can neither be modified nor changed
by any agreement of 'parties. It is a relation for life, and
the parties cannot terminate it at any shorter period by virtue
of any contract they may make. The reciprocal rights arising from this relation, so long-as it continues, are such as the
law determines from time to time, and none other." And
again -" It is not, then, a contract within the meaning of the
clause of the Constitution which prohibits the impairing the
obligatign of contracts. It is, rather, a social relation, like
that of parent and child, the obligations of which arise not
from the consent of concurring minds, but are'the creation of
the lawi itself; a relation the most important, as affecting the
happiness of individuals, the first step from barbarism to
incipient civilization, the purest tie of social life and the true

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

basis of human progress." pp. 484, 485. And the Chief Justice cites in support of this view the case of .faguire v.
-Maguire,'7 Dana; 181, 183, and .Diso v. .Dion,4 R. I. 87,
101. In the first of these the Supreme Court of Kentucky
said that marriage was.more thaii a. contract; that it was the
most .eleientary and useful of all the sooal relations, was
regulated and controlled by tbe sovereign power of the state,
and could not, like mere contracts, be dissolved by the mutual
consent of the contracting parties, but might be abrogated
by the sovereign will whenever the public good, or justice to
both parties, or either of the parties, would thereby be subserved, that beig .more than a contract, and depending
especially upon .the sovereign will, it was not embraced by the
constitutional inhibition of legislative acts impairing the obligation of contracts. In the second case the Supreme Court of
Rhode Island said that "marrage,in the sense in which it is
dealt with by a decree of divorce, is not a contract, but one of
the domestic Telations. In strictness, though formed by contraqt, it signifies the relatitn of husband and wife, deriving
both its rights and duties from. a source higher than any contract of which the parties are capable, and as to these uncontrollable by any contract which they can make. When
formed, this relation is no more a contract than ' fatherhood'
or I sonship' is a contract."
In aiade v. _falbjkischc, 58 I. Y. 282, 284. the question came
before the Court of Appeals of New York whether an action
for breach of promise of marriage was an action upon a, contract within the meaning of certain provisions of the Revised
Statutes of that State, and in disposing of the question the
court said: "The general statute, ' that marriage, so far as its
validity in law is concerned, shall continue in this State a civil
contract, to which the consent of parties, capable in law of
contracting, shall be essential is not decisive of the question.'
2 R. S. 138. This statute declares it a civil contract, as distinguished from a religious sacrament, and makes the element
of consent necessary to its legal validity, but its nature, attributes, and distinguishing features it does not interfere with or
attempt to define. It is declared a civil contract for certain

MAYNARD v. HILL.
Opi ion of the Court.
purposes, but i+is not thereby made synonymous with the word
contract employed in the common law or statutes. In this
State, and at common law, it ma-y be entered into by persotis
respectively of fourteen and twelve. It cannot be dissolved
by the parties when consummated, nor released with or without consideration. .The relation is always iegulated by government. It is more than a contract. -It requires certain acts of
the parties to constitute marriage independent of and beyond
the contract. It p rtakes more of the character of an institution regulated and controlled by public authority, upon principles of public policy, for the benefit of the cQmnunity."
In YMe v. Ewing, 9 Indiana) 37, the question was before the
Supreme Court of Indiana as to the competency of the legislature of the State to change the relative rights of husband and
wife after marriage, which led to a consideration of the nature
of marriage; and the court said: "Some confusion has arisen
from confounding the contract to marry with the marriage relation itself. And still more is engendered by regarding husband and wifM as strictly parties to a subsisting contract. At
common law, .marriage as a status had few elements of contract about it. For instance, no other contract merged the
legal existence of the parties into one. Other distinctive elements will readilv suggest themselves, which rob it of most of
its characteristics as a contract, and leave it snply as a sta.u
or institution. As such, it is not -o much the result of private
agreement, as of public ordination. In every enlightened goverAnent, it is prefminently the basis of -civil institutions, and
thus an object of the deepest public concern. In this light,
marriage is more than a contract. It is not a mere matter of
pecuniary consideration. It is a great public institution, giving character to our whole civil polity." pp. 49-50. In accordance with these views was the judgment of Mr. Justice
St6ry. In a note to.the chapter on marriage, in his work on
the _Conffict of Laws, after stating that he had treated marriage as a contract in the common sense of the word, because
this was the light in which it was ordinarily viewed by jurists,
domestic as well as foreign, he adds: " But it appears to me to
be something more than a mere contract. It is rather to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

deemed an institution of society, founded upon consent and
contract of the parties, and m this view it has some peculiarities in its nature, character, operation and extent of obligation,
different from what belong to ordinary contracts." § 108 n.,
The 14th section of the organic act of Oregon provides that
the inhabitants of the territory shall be entitled to all the
rights, privileges, and advantages granted and seemed to the
people of the territory of the United States northwest of the
river Ono by the articles of compact contained in the ordinance of July 13, '1787, for the government of the territory
The last clause of article two of that ordinance declares "that
no law ought ever to be made or have force in said territory
that shall in any manner whatever interfere with or affect
private contracts or engagements 7onafie and without fiaud,
previously formned." This -clause, though thus enacted and
made applicable to the inhabitants of Oregon, cannot be construed to operate as any greater restraint upon legislative
interference with contracts than .the provision of the federal
Constitution. It was intended, like that provision, to forbid
the passage of laws which would impair rights of property
vested under private contracts or engagements, and -can have
no. application to the marriage relation.
But it is contended that Lydia A. Mfaynard, the first wife of
David A. Mfaynard, was entitled, notwithstanding the divorce,
to the east half of the donation claim. The settlement, it is
true, was made by her husband as a married man in order to
secure the 640 acres in such7 case granted under the donation
acs. 9 Stat. 96; c. 76. But that act conferred the title of the
land only upon the settler who at the time was a resident of
the Territory, or should be a resident of the Territory before
December 1, 1850, and who should reside upon and cultivate
tle land for four consecutive years. The words of the act,
that "there shall be, and hereby is, granted to every white
settler or occupant," is qualified by the condition of four yearse

residence on the land and its cultivation by him. The settler
does not become a grantee until sucla residence and cultivation
have been had, by the very terms of the act. Until then he
has only a promise of a title, what is sometimes vaguely called

MAYNARD v. HILL.
Opinion of the Court.

an inchoate interest. In some of the cases decided at the circuit, the fourth section-of the act was treated as constituting a
grant in paneenti, subject to the conditions of continued, residence and cultivation, that is, a grant of a defeasible estate.
Adarms v. Bu'ke, 3 Sawyer, 415, 418. But this view was -not
accepted by this court. In Hal v. 1msell, 101 U. S. 503, the.
nature of the grant was elaborately considered, and it was
held that the title did not vest 'in the settler until the conditions were fully performed. After citing- the language of a
previous decision, that "it is always to be borne in mind, in
construing a Congressional grant, that the act by which it is
made is a law as well as a conveyance, and that such effect
must be given to it as will carry out the intent of Congress,"
the court said: "There cannot be a grant unless there is a
grantee, and consequently there cannot be a present grant
unless there is a present grantee. If, then, the law making
the grant indicates a future grantee and not a present one, the
grant will take effect m the future and not presently. In all
the cases in whibh we have given these words the effect of an
immediate and present transfer it will be found that the law
has designated a grantee qualified to take according to the
terms of the law, and actually in existence at the time.
Conung then to the present case, we find that the grantee
designated was any qualified-' settler or occupant of the public
lands

.

.

. who shall have resided upon and cultivated the

same for four consecutive years, and shall otherwise conform
to the provisions of the act.' The grant was not to a settler
only, but to a settler who had completed the four years of
residence, &c., and had .otherwise conformed to the act.
Whenever a settler qualified himself to become a grantee he
took the gTant, and his right to a transfer of the legal title
from the United States became vested. But until he was
qualified to take, there was no actual grant of the soil. The
act of Congress made the transfer only when the settler brought
himself within the description of those designated as.grantees.
A present right to occupy and maintain possession, so as to
acquire a complete title to the soil, was granted to every white
person in the Territory, having the other requisite qualifica-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Conr.

tdons, but beyond this nothing passed until all was done that
was necessary to entitle the occupant to a grant of the land."
In anc v. urbank, 101 -U. S. 51, 521, the doctrine of the
previous case was- reaffirmed, and the court added: "The
statutory- grant was to the settler, but if he was married the
donation, when perfected, inured io the benefit of himself and
his wife in equal parts. The wife could not be a settler. She
got nothing except through her-husband."
When, therefore, the act was passed divorcing the husband
and wife, he had no vested interest in the land, and she could
have no interest greater than his. Nothing had then been
acquired by his residence and cultivation which gave him
anything more- than a mere possessory right; a right to
remain on the land so as to enable hni to comply with the
conditions upon which the title was to pass to him. After
the divorce she had no such relation to him as to confer upon
her any interest in the title subsequently acquired by him.
A divorce ends all rights not previously vested. Interests
which might vest in time, upon a continuance of the marriage
relation, were gone. A wife divorced has no right of dower
in his property; a husbaiid divorced has no right by the
curtesy in her lands, unless the statute authorizing the divorce specially confers such right.
It follows that the wife was not entitled to the east half of
the donation claim. To entitle her to that half she must have
continued his wife during his residence and cultivation of the
land. The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory
must therefore be affirmed, and it is so ordered.
M.P_ JusTiop

MATTnws and ]-u. JusTiE Gr&Y dissented.

MNcf.
JUsTicE BnADL-u was not present at the argument and
took no part in the decision.

