OCTOBER TERM, 1956.
Opinion of the Court.

353 U. S.

CIVIL AERONAUTICS BOARD v. HERMANN

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 540.

Argued April 25, 1957.-Decided May 6, 1957.

1. The District Court's order in this case duly enforced the right of
the Civil Aeronautics Board to call for documents relevant to the
issues in a proceeding before the Board, with appropriate provision
for assuring the minimum interference with the conduct of
respondents' business. Pp. 322-324.
2. The judgment of the Court of Appeals, reversing that of the District Court and establishing certain procedural requirements for
the Board to follow before issuance of an enforcement order, is
reversed; and the cause is remanded to the District Court with
instructions to reinstate its enforcement order. Pp. 323-324.
3. This enforcement order leaves open to respondents ample opportunities for objecting, on relevant grounds, to the admission
into evidence of any particular document. P. 324.
237 F. 2d 359, reversed and remanded.

Solicitor General Rankin argued the cause for petitioner. With him on the brief were Assistant Attorney
General Hansen, Daniel M. Friedman,Franklin M. Stone
and Robert Burstein.
Roland E. Ginsburg argued the cause and filed a brief
for respondents.
PER CURIAM.

Petitioner had instituted an administrative enforcement proceeding against the respondents, a group of individuals and business entities operating as the "Skycoach"
air travel system. The Board's complaint charged violation of its regulations as well as of the Civil Aeronautics
Act and sought certain revocation and cease-and-desist
orders against respondents. In the course of the proceedings, the Hearing Examiner issued a number of sub-

CIVIL AERONAUTICS BOARD v. HERMANN.
322

323

Opinion of the Court.

poenas duces tecum calling for the production of certain
categories of documents of the respondent companies
covering specified periods of time. On a motion to
quash on the grounds, inter alia, that the subpoenas were
vague, excessively broad in scope, and oppressive, both
the Hearing Examiner and the Board found that the
subpoenas described the documents to be produced with
sufficient particularity, were reasonable in scope, and were
not oppressive. Upon respondents' continued refusal to
honor the subpoenas, petitioner filed this enforcement
proceeding. Initially the trial judge continued the cause
for 10 days "on condition that respondents . . . make

the documents specified in the administrative subpenas . . . available immediately to the representatives

of the Civil Aeronautics Board for examination and
copying at the usual places of business of the named
respondents .

. . ."

Upon the expiration of this period,

the court, on a showing that respondents had not complied
with this condition, entered an order of enforcement
allowing "a sufficient length of time between dates for
tho production of the documents
so that the
respondents will not be deprived of all of their books
and records at the same time." The court found that
it could not say "that any of the documents or things
called for in any of the subpoenas are immaterial or irrelevant to the proceedings before the Board . . ." with-

out an examination of each of the items ordered
produced. The Court of Appeals reversed, establishing
certain procedural requirements the Board must follow
before an enforcement proceeding is in order. 237 F.
2d 359.
As we read the order of the District Court, it duly
enforced the Board's right to call for documents relevant
to the issues of the Board's complaint, with appropriate
provisions for assuring the minimum interference with
the conduct of the business of respondents. The judg-

324

OCTOBER TERM, 1956.
Opinion of the Court.

353 U. S.

ment of the Court of Appeals is reversed and the cause
is remanded to the District Court with instructions to
reinstate its enforcement order of May 16, 1955. See
ยง 1004 (b), Civil Aeronautics Act of 1938, 52 Stat. 1021,
as amended, 49 U. S. C. ยง 644 (b); Brown v. United States,
276 U. S. 134, 142-143 (1928); Oklahoma Press Pub. Co.
v. Walling, 327 U. S. 186 (1946); Endicott Johnson Corp.
v. Perkins, 317 U. S. 501, 509 (1943). Of course this
enforcement order leaves open to the respondents ample
opportunities for objecting, on relevant grounds, to the
admissibility into evidence of any particular document.
It is so ordered.

