TROY BANK v. WHITEHEAD & CO.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

TROY BANK v. G. A. WHITEHEAD & COMPANY
(INCORPORATED).
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

No. 566.

Submitted October 9, 1911.-Decided November 6, 1911.

When two or more plaintiffs, having separate and distinct demands,
unite for convenience and economy in a single suit, it is essential
that the demand of each be of the requisite jurisdictional amount;
but when several plaintiffs unite to enforce a single title or right, in
which they have a common and undivided interest, it is enough if
their interests collectively equal the jurisdictional amount.
The Circuit Court has jurisdiction of a suit brought by several plaintiffs to enforce a vendor's lien equally securing notes aggregating
more than 82,000 held by them and which neither can enforce in
,
the absence of the other, even though the claim of each plaintiff is
less than $2,000.
184 Fed. Rep. 932, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the question of whether the
sum or value of the matter in dispute was sufficient to give
the Circuit Court jurisdiction, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. George W. Jolly and Mr. B. F. Huffman for the
appellants.
Mr. Ben D. Ringo for the appellees.
MR. JUSTICE VAN .DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This was a suit in equity wherein the jurisdiction of the
Circuit'Court was invoked on the ground of diverse citizenship, and the sole question now presented for decision

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

is whether the sum or value of the matter in dispute exceeded two thousand dollars, exclusive of interest and
costs, as required by the act of August 13, 1888, c. 866,
ยง 1, 25 Stat. 433. The facts are these:
Upon a sale of land situate in the western district of
Kentucky, the vendor lawfully reserved a vendor's lien
for the unpaid portion of the purchase price, for which
he took two promissory notes of $1,200 each, payable in
one and two years. Shortly thereafter the notes were assigned to the present appellants, one to each; and by the
law of Kentucky the vendor's lien passed to the assignees,
as a common security for the payment of both notes,
without any priority of right in either assignee. After the
maturity of the notes, both remaining wholly unpaid, the
assignees jointly brought this suit to enforce the vendor's
lien. They and their assignor were citizens of Indiana,
and the defendant, who.acquired the land with notice of
the lien, was a citizen of Kentucky.
By a demurrer to the bill the defendant challenged the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, upon the ground that
the matter in dispute was not of the ,requisite jurisdictional -value; and the court, being of opinion that such
value was not to be measured by the extent to which the
plaintiffs collectively were seeking to enforce the lien as a
common security, but by the extent to which each was
interested in its enforcement, sustained the demurrer and
dismissed the bill for want of jurisdictio*n. 184 Fed. Rep.
932. The plaintiffs then appealed directly to this court,
and the Circuit Court appropriately certified the question
of jurisdiction. Act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, ยง 5, 26 Stat.
826.
When two or more plaintiffs, haVing separate and distinct demands, unite for convenience and economy in a
single suit, it is essential that the demand of each be
of the requisite jurisdictional amount; but when several
plaintiffs unite to enforce a single title or right, in which

TROY BANK v. WHITEHEAD & CO.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

'

they have a common and undivided interest, it is enough
if their interests collectively equal the jurisdictional
amount. Shields v. Thomas, 17 How. 3; Rodd v. H~artt,17
Wall. 354; Davies v. Corbin, 112 U. S. 36, 40: Gibson v.
Shufeldt, 122 U. S. 27; New Orleans Pacific Railway Co. v.
Parker, 143 U. S. 42; Walter v. NortheasternRailroad Co.,
147 U. S. 370, 373; Davis v. Schwartz, 155 U. S. 631, 647;
Illinois CentralRailroad Co. v. Adams, 180 U. S. 28.
The present suit is of the latter class. Its controlling
object-that which makes it cognizable in equity-is the
enforcement of the vendor's lien, which is a single thing
or entity in which the plaintiffs have a common and undivided interest, and which neither can enforce in the
absence of the other. Thus, while their claims under the
notes were separate and distinct, their claim under, the
vendor's lien was.single and undivided, and the lien was
sought to be enforced as a common security for the payment of both notes.
It follows that the Circuit .Court erred in holding that
it was without jurisdiction; and its decree is accordingly
Reversed, with directions to overrule the demurrer to the
bill and to take such further proceedings in the case as
may be appropriate.

