OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

222 U. S.

ROBINSON v. BALTIMORE AND OHIO RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 17.

Submitted April 28,.1911.-Decided January 9, 1912.

By the Act to Regulate Commerce, Congress has provided a system
for establishing, maintaining, and altering rate schedules and of
redressing injuries, and committed to a single tribunal authority to
investigate complaints, enforce conformity to prescribed standards,
and order reparation to injured parties for non-conformity with
those standards.
No action for reparation for exactions for railroad freight payments
can be maintained in any court, Federal or state, in the absence of
an appropriate finding and order of the Interstate Commerce Commission. The rule laid down in Texas & Pacific Railway Co. v.
Abilene Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426, as to suits for recovery of unreasonable rates, applies also to suits for recovery of rates as discriminatory.
Section 14 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, making decisions of the
Interstate Commerce Commission as published in the official reports
competent evidence, does not relieve a party relying on a decision
from putting it in evidence-or require courts to take judicial notice
thereof-the statute relieves from expense and inconvenience in
connection with producing evidence, but it does not otherwise
change the rules of evidence.
In this case held that an action could not be maintained for discriminatory exaction on coal rates of fifty cents a ton when loaded from
wagons and not from tipples, as the complaint had not shown that
the schedule had been the subject of complaint to the Interstate
Commerce Commission and held by it to be discriminatory.
64 W. Va. 406, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of charges of common carriers on coal shipments and whether illegal discrimination existed, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles H. Leeds for plaintiff in error.

ROBINSON v. BALT. & OHIO R. R.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. H. L. Bond, Jr., Mr. W. Irtine Cross and Mr. A.
Hunter Boyd, Jr., for defendant in error.
MR. JusTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the court.
In February, March and May, 1903, Robinson, the
plaintiff in error, shipped eleven carloads of coal from Fairmont, West Virginia, to points in other States, over the
railroad of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company,
the defendant in error, and paid the rate thereon which
was prescribed in a schedule published and fled conformably to the act to regulate interstate commerce and
then in full force. By this schedule the rate was fifty cents
more per ton when the coal was loaded into the car from
wagons than when the loading was from a tipple. Robinson's shipments came under the higher rate, and the
charges paid by him were $150.00 in excess of what would
have been exacted if his coal had been loaded from a tipple.
Conceiving that the schedule unjustly discriminated between shipments loaded from tipples and those loaded
from wagons, he brought, in the Circuit Court of Marion
County, West Virginia, on April 19, 1906, an action against
the railroad company to recover the excess so paid. The
case was heard upon an agreed statement of facts, which
set forth, with some detail, the matters just stated and
recited that it embodied "all the facts and evidence in the
cause." But the statement did not disclose, or even suggest, that the schedule had been the subject of a complkint
to the Interstate Commerce Commission or had been
found by the Commission to be unjustly discriminatory,
or that the railroad company had been ordered by the
Commission to desist from giving effect to the schedule
or to make reparation to Robinson or any other shipper
because of prior exactions thereunder. Being of opinion
that, upon the agreed statement, Robinson was not en-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

titled to recover, the court entered a judgment dismissing
his action, and that judgment was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of Appeals of the State. 64 W. Va. 406. He then
sued out this writ of error upon the ground that, by the
judgment of affirmance, he was denied rights specially
set up under the act to regulate interstate commerce.
The first question to be considered is, whether, consistently with the provisions of that act, Robinson could
maintain his action for reparation in the absence of an
order by the Interstate Commerce Commission finding
that the established schedule whereby the additional fifty
cents per ton was exacted was unjustly discriminatory,
determining what reparation should be made because of
prior exactions thereunder, and directing the carrier to desist from such discrimination in the future, and to make
the reparation indicated. It was contended by him in the
Supreme Court of Appeals of the State, and is contended
now, that the question should be answered in the affirmative because of the provision in ยง 22 (Act of 1887) that
"nothing in this act contained shall in any way abridge
or alter the remedies now existing at common law or by
statute, but the provisions of this act are in addition to
such remedies." But it must be ruled otherwise, and for
these reasons:
The act, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379; c. 382, 25 Stat. 855; c. 61,
28 Stat. 643; c. 708, 32 Stat. 847, whilst prohibiting
unreasonable charges, unjust discriminations and undue
preferences by carriers subject to its provisions, also prescribed the manner in which that prohibition should be
enforced; that is to say, the act laid upon every such
carrier the duty of publishing and filing, in a prescribed
mode, schedules of the rates to be charged for the transportation of property over its road, declared that the
rates named in schedules so established should be conclusively deemed to be the legal rates until changed as
provided in the act, forbade any deviation from them

ROBINSON v. BALT. & OHIO R. R.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

while they remained in effect, invested the Interstate Commerce Commission with authority to receive complaints
against rates so established, and to inquire and find
whether they were in any wise violative of the prohibitions of the act, and, if so, what, if any, injury had been
done thereby to the person complaining or to others, and
further authorized the Commission to direct the carrier
to desist from any violation found to exist, and to make
reparation for any injury found to have been done.

Provision was also made for the enforcement of the order
for reparation, by an action in the Circuit Court of the
United States, if the carrier failed to comply with it.
Thus, for the purpose of preventing unreasonable
charges, unjust discriminations and undue preferences, a
system of establishing, maintaining and altering rate
schedules and of redressing injuries resulting from their
enforcement was adopted whereby publicity would be
given to the rates, their application would be obligatory
and uniform while they remained in effect, and the matter
of their conformity to prescribed standards would be committed primarily to a single tribunal clothed with authority to investigate complaints and to order the correction of any non-conformity to those standards by an
appropriate change in schedules and by due reparation
to injured persons.
When the purpose of the act and the means selected
for the accomplishment of that purpose are understood,
it is altogether plain that the act contemplated that such
an investigation and order by the designated tribunal,
the Interstate Commerce Commission, should be a prerequisite to the right to seek reparation-in the courts becaase of exactions under an established schedule alleged
to be violative of the prescribed standards. And this is
so, because the existence and exercise of a right to maintain
an action of that character, in the absence of such an investigation and order, would be repugnant to the declared

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

rule that a rate established in the mode prescribed should.
be deemed the legal rate and obligatory alike upon carrier
and shipper until changed in the manner provided, would
be in derogation of the power expressly delegated to the
Commission, and would be destructive of the uniformity
and equality which the act was designed to secure.
In the case of Texas and Pacific Railway Co. v. 'Abilene
Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426, 440, where such a right was
asserted and denied, it was said by this court:
"Indeed the recognition of such a right is wholly inconsistent with the administrative power conferred upon
the Commission and" with the duty, which the statute
casts upon that body, of seeing to it that the statutory
requirement as to uniformity and equality of rates is
observed. Equally obvious is it that the existence of such
a power in the courts, independent of prior action by the
Commission, would lead to favoritism, to the enforcement
of one rate in one jurisdiction and a different one in another, would destroy the prohibitions against preferences
and discrimination, and afford, moreover, a ready means
by which, through collusive proceedings, the wrongs which
the statute was intended to remedy could be successfully
inflicted. Indeed no reason can be perceived for the
enactment of the provision endowing the administrative
tribunal, which the act created, with power, on due proof,
not only to award reparation to a particular shipper, but
to command the carrier to desist from violation of the act
in the future, thus compelling the alteration of the old or
the filing of a new schedule, conformably to the action of
the Commission, if the power was left in courts to grant
relief on complaint of any shipper, upon the theory that
the established rate could be disregarded and be treated
as unreasonable, without reference to previous action by
the Commission in the premises. This must be, because,
if the power existed in both courts and the Commission
to originally hear complaints on this subject, there might

ROBINSON v. BALT. & OHIO R. R.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be a divergence between the action of the Commission
and the decision of a court. In other words, the established
schedule might be found reasonable by the Commission
in the first instance and unreasonable by a court acting
originally, and thus a conflict would arise which would
render the enforcement of the act impossible."
It is true, as was urged in argument, that in that case
the complaint against the established rate was that it was
unresonable, while here the complaint is that the rate was
unjustly discriminatory. But the distinction is not material. The power of the Commission over the two complaints is the same, one is as likely to become the subject
of diverging opinions and conflicting decisions as is the
other, and if a court, acting originally upon either, were to
sustain it and award reparation, the confusing anomaly
would be presented of a rate being adjudged to be violative of the prescribed standards and yet continuing to be
the.legal rate, obligatory upon both carrier and shipper.
Of course, the provision in ยง 22, as also the provision in
ยง 9, must be read in connection with other.parts of the act
and be interpreted with due regard to its manifest purpose, and, when that is done, it is apparent that neither
provision recognizes or implies that an action for reparation, such as is here sought, may be maintained in any
court, Federal or state, in the absence of an appropriate
finding and order of the Commission. Texas and Pacific
Railway Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Cq., supra, pp. 442, 446.
The next question to be considered is, whether judicial
notice should have been taken of the decision of the Commission in Glade Coal Co. v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad
C6., wherein, as it is said, the rate here in question was
found to be unjustly discriminatory ahd the railroad company was directed to desist from its enforcement. The
decision was rendered April 28, 1904, and ,authoritatively
published in 10 1. C. C. 226, but was not mentioned in the
pleadings or in the agreed statement of facts. In the Su-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

preme Cofut of Appeals of the State it was contended
that the decision should have been judicially noticed by
the trial court, but the contention was rejected, and that
ruling is now challenged as contravening the provision in
ยง 14 of the act (25 Stat. 855), which reads: "The Commission may provide for the publication of its reports and
decisions in such form and manner as may be best adapted
for public information and use, and such authorized publications shall be competent evidence of the reportW and
decisions of the Commission therein contained, in all
courts of the United States, and of the several States,
without any further proof or authentication thereof."
Undoubtedly, this provision makes the decisions of the
Commission, as so published, admissible in evidence without other proof of their genuineness, but it does not require that they be judicially noticed or relieve litigants
from offering them in evidence as they would any other
competent evidence intended to be relied upon. Its purpose is to relieve litigants from the inconvenience and
expense of obtaining certified copies of the decisions by
authorizing the use of the published copies. but it does
not otherwise change the rules of evidence. The ruling,
therefore, was not in contravention of the statute.
The result, however, would have been the same had the
decision been properly before the court. An examination
of it discloses that it did not contain any finding or direction as to what, if any, reparation should be made
because of prior exactions of the rate which it condemned.
It did find that the complaining party in that proceeding
had .been injured by the refusal of the railroad company
to furnish cars on certain occasions for the shipment of
coal, and did direct that reparation therefor be made,
but that is without bearing here.
It follows that the judgment must be affirmed, and it is
so ordered.
Affirmed.

