UNITED STATES v. GARBISH.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. GARBISH.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 362.

Argued November 7, 1911.-Decided December 11, 1911.

Under the act of August 1, 1892, 27 Stat. 340, c. 352, restricting service
of laborers employed on public works of the United States to eighthours a day except in cases of extraordinary emergency, the exception does not-relate to contemplated emergencies necessarily inhering
in the work, .or to mere requirements of business convenience or
pecuniary advantage, but only those exceeding the common degree.
This court assumes that Congress uses a phrase in a statute with a
conseiusness of its meaning and with the intention of conveying
such meaning.
A contractor for public works has the statute before him and can govern himself accordingly. There is no hardship in holding him to its
terms.
An intention of Congress to exempt from provisions of a general statute declaring a public policy a conspicuous public work, such as
repairing levees of the Mississippi river, would undoubtedly have
been expressed; and held, that the continuing necessity of prompt
completion of the work on such levees cannot be classed as an extraordinary emergency within the meaning of the Eight Hour Law
of 1892.
Quwre, to what extent the court can take judicial knowledge of necessity for and conditions of a public improvement such as Mississippi
river levees.
180 Fed. Rep. 502, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the Federal Eight Hour Labor Law, are stated in the opinion.

The Solicitor General for the United States.
Mr. B. D. Saunders for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the

opinion of the

court.
Defendant in error was indfcted for violation of the act,
VOL. CCXXii-17

258

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

of Congress of August 1, 1892, c. 352, 27 Stat. 340, which
restricts the service and employment of all laborers and
mechanics who are now or may hereafter be employed
,by the Government or by any contractor or subcontractor, upon any of the public works of the United States,
to eight hours in any one calendar day, and makes it
unlawful for any officer of the Government or any such
contractor to require or permit any such laborer to work
a longer time "except in cases of extraordinary emergency."
The indictment set out in proper form that defendant
in error had violated the law by permitting and requiring
his employ~s engaged in building a public levee on the
Mississippi River, which was part of the public Works
of the. United States, to work more than eight hours
"on the 17th day of August, 1908, at a time and under circumstances when there was no extraordinary emergency,
for the reason that at that season of the year, to-wit,
during the months of August, September, October, and
November and December, the waters of the Mississippi
River annually fall below the level of the surrounding
land and are retained within the banks of said river without the necessity of any artificial levees, as was true on
August 17, 1908." It is further charged that the levees
were being constructed in the usual and ordinary course of
levee building done annually for the increase in size and
strength of such levees, in preparation for the high waters
that come down the river, the levees being, of standard
size and sufficiefnt to resist usual high water, but not unusual high waters, that occasionally, although not every
year, come down the river, it being the policy, rule and
custom of the Government to increase the standard of
levees by destroying inferior levees and replacing them
with stronger and higher ones year by year until the levees
shall all be brouLght to a standard able to withstand any unusual floods. And it is further charged that the particular

UNITED STATES v. GARBISH.

222"U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

work which the defendant in error was constructing was
nothing unusual or out of the ordinary, but was being
done in pursuance of the policy indicated and at the usual
.time, so as to allow the levee time to settle. and pack
and become ready and able to serve the purposes for which
it was constructed; that is,. to withstand and retain the
high waters of the Mississippi river before their usual
annual rise, and the time of construction being the usual
and customary time to so complete and perfect the levee,
before the annual rise of the waters, as would exist in
the construction of any levee on the river "any year
and at any place and by any contractor, all of whom
know, as did the said Garbish, that the waters of the
Mississippi river annually fall and are retained .within the
natural banks thereof during the period or season aforesaid, and begin to rise above the natural banks thereof,
and therefore to need artificial levees to retain them, in
the month of January each year."
Defendant demurred to the indictment, on the ground
that it did not set forth any offense against the laws of the
United States or any violation of the laws of the United
States. The demurrer was sustained.
In passing upon the demurrer the court said that the
defendant rested his case upon the proposition '"that the
building of levees on the Mississippi River, in the Eastern
District of Louisiana, at all times- presents an extraordinary emergency," and hence that the work on the river
is exempt from the operation of the law. The court took
judicial notice of the fact asserted and sustained the conclusion from it. The court said that certain facts were
within the common knowledge of the people of the district, Which, taken in connection with the specific allegations of the indictment; overcame the mere conclusion
of the pleader that no -extraordinary emergency existed,
and instanced the following: The work on the levees
was absolutely necessary for the preservation of property

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

and the cultivation of the land; therefore it has always
been usual for levee work to proceed with the utmost dispatch, and the labor of the day has never been restricted
to eight hours. It is necessary, the court said, that the
levees be built in as short a time as possible, that they
may settle and that the 'grass may become well rooted
on them before they are called upon to bear the strain
of the high river.
From these facts the court assumed the existence of
others, as follows (180 Fed. Rep. 50.2, 503):
"It is true that the months of August, September,
October, November and December are the most favorable
for levee building, but there is no certainty that during
any part of these months the river will maintain a low
stage. When the river is bank full, necessarily no levees
can.'be built. Statistics of the river's height, at New
Orleans, show that during the past 25 years the river
has been bank full on nearly every day of the year, and
these statistics may well apply to the locality where the
defendant was working. An unprecedented rain, or an
early freeze followed by a thaw, anywhere in the valley of
the Mississippi River or its tributaries, might unexpectedly
cause the river to rise at New Orleans. No one can foresee
or anticipate the acts of nature, and who can say that a
few days' more time, in which it might have become solidifled, would not have so materially added to the levee's
strength as to enable it to withstand the pressure. and
without which it might signally fail."
The Government insists that the court assumed too
extensive a judicial knowledge, and urges that the most
important of the assumed facts, that the river has been
bank full almost every day in the year, and the extension of the fact to the locality where defendant was working, is contradicted by the official hydrographs, 1871 to
1907 and 1907 to 1911, attached to the Government's
brief, from which it appears that at Carrollton, which is a

UNITED STATES v. GARBISH.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

few miles above New Orleans and a few miles below St.
James Parish, the river, from 1872 to 1910, had never
been above the stage at which it begins to interfere with
the construction of levees, in August, September, October
and November, and only a few days in August, 1875,
touched that stage; and the Government further contends
that it was not a matter to be judicially taken notice of
that the work could not be properly expedited unless the
laborers be employed more than eight hours a day. But
aside from these considerations, it has been decided that
no mere requirement of business convenience or pecuniary
advantage is an extraordinary emergency within the meaning of the act. Ellis v. United States, 206 U. S. 246, 256,
257. And, besides, the extraordinary emergency which
relieves from the act is not one that is contemplated and
inheres necessarily in the work. United States v. SheridanKirk Contract Co., 149 Fed. Rep. 809. It is a special
occurrence, and the phrase used emphasizes this. It is
not an emergency simply which is expressed by it, something merely sudden and unexpected, but an extraordinary
one, one exceeding the common degree. We must assume
that the phrase was used with a consciousness of its meaning and with the intention of conveying such meaning.
As said by the Solicitor General, "the phrase 'continuing
extraordinary emergency' is self-contradictory."
The building and repair of levees on the Mississippi
River is one of the most important and conspicuous of
the public works of the United States, and if it had been
intended to exempt it from the provisions of the act of
August 1, 1892, which declared a public policy in regard
to labor, it would have been expressed. There is no hardship in this to a contractor. He has before him' the law
and the conditions affecting the work which he may undertake and can govern himself accordingly.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded with directions to
overrule the demurrer.

