PORTO RICO SUGAR CO. v. LORENZO.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

PORTO RICO SUGAR COMPANY v. LORENZO.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
. PORTO RICO.
No. 154.

Argued December 22, 1911.-Decided January 9, 1912.

A contract will be read in the light of well known conditions; a contract made in Porto Rico to grind sugar cane will be presumed to be
a contract to grind in the grinding season.
What the grinding season is in a particular locality may be established
by parol evidence.
Nothing in the contract under'consideration in this case takes it out
of the ordinary rule that performance of an absolute undertaking is
not excused by such occurrences as breaking of machinery, etc.
5 Porto Rico Fed. Rep. 96, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of sugar
grinding contracts in Porto Rico, are stated in the opinion.
Plaintiff in error was defendant below.

Mr. Hannis Taylor, with whom Mr. C. M. Boerman was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
There was no brief filed for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action upon notarial contracts to grind all
the plaintiff's sugar cane raised upon specified plantations let to him for a certain number of zafras or grinding seasons ending in 1912. The breaches alleged 'are

failure to grind the cane, 'during the months of Janu-.
ary to June,' 1908, and to furnish the necessary cars and
men to handle the cane as agreed. At the trial it was

proved that the cane was ready to be ground and should
have been ground between the months of January and
the first weeks of June, but that a large part of the crop

was ground in the lafter part. of June and throuh July
VoL. dcxxIi-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

to the great damage of the plaintiff. A failure to furnish
the proper number of cars for a part of the time also was
established. The contract did not fix a' period within
which the grinding should be done otherwise than by refference to the zafras to which it extended, and it was objected by demurrer, requests for ruling and exceptions to
evidence that as the written agreement was silent it could
not be made more definite by parol. But the court ruled
the other way and sustained a verdict of $15,000 for the
plaintiff, whereupon the case was brought to this court.
It appears to us not to need extended argument to show
that the court was right. A contract to grind sugar cane
implies on its face, if read with any knowledge of the business, that it has reference to seasons, and that it is more
definite than a simple grammatical interpretation of the
words would express. An illustration suggested at the
argument brings'it home to those of us whose experience
has been in the North. A contract to reap a field of wheat
with no mention of time would not leave the contractor
free to choose his own time. The grinding of cane must
be done in the grinding season, and a contract to grind is
a contract to grind in the grinding season. Parol evidence
may be necessary to show what that season is in a given
place, as it constantly is in order to translate words and
the implications of words into things; but the season when
ascertained is the limit by the very meaning of the words
used, when used in a business contract made with regard
to one of the great industries of the world.
A part of the delay seems to have been caused by the
repeated breaking down of the machinery, but nothing
appears to take the case out of the ordinary rule that performance of an absolute undertaking is not excused by
facts of that sort. Nothing else in the case seem to us
to call for remark. The trial was conducted fairly and
intelligently, and the defendant must bear the loss.
Judgment affirned.

