UNION PACIFIC R. R. v. UPDIKE GRAIN CO. 215
222 U. S.

Syllabus.

UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v. UPDIKE GRAIN COMPANY AND CROWELL LUMBEP AND GRAIN.COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
Nos.. 53,'354, 355, 356.

Argued October 18, 1911;-Decided December 4, 1911.

Interstate Commerce Commission v. Diffenbaugh, ante, p. 42, followed to
effect that under the Interstate Commerce Law, as amended by the
act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, 590, elevation of grain is
included in .transportation, and, subject to the power of the Commission to determine the reasonableness of the payments, carriers
can compensate owners of grain in transit for elevation services rendered in connection therewith.
Although a carrier may have had an ulterior motive in establishing a
general late of compensation for services rendered to it in connection
with godds in transit, the real consideration is the service rendered;
and even if the carrier does not realize the desired benefit it cannot
deprive one actually, rendering the service of the compensation on
the ground of non-compliance with regulations of an association of
which the carrier is a member and over which the party rendering
the service has no control.
A carrier must treat all alike. It cannot pay one shipper for services
rendered to his goods in transit, and, by enforcing an arbitrary rule,
deprive another shipper rendering similar services of compensation
therefor.
A rule apparently fair on its face and reasonable in its terms may, in
fact, be unfair and unreasonable if it operates so as to give one an
advantage of which another similarly situated cannot avail.
In this case held, that the Union Pacific Railroad Company could not
refuse to pay. the owner of an elevator located on other railroads
compensation for elevating grain similar to that paid to owners of elevators located on its own railroad on account of failure to return'
cars within an arbitrary and unreasonable time fixed by the Union
Pacific; but also held that such cars should be returned within a
reasonable time in order to entitle the parties rendering service to
compensation therefor.
178 Fed. Rep. 223, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court,

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Maxwell Evarts, with whom Mr. F. C. Dillard and
Mr. Henry W. Clark were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Edward P. Smith, with whom Mr. Constantine J.
Smyth was on the brief,- for defendants in error.
Mr. Constantine J. Smyth and Mr. Edward P. Smith,
with whom were Mr. Nelson H. Loomis, Edson Rich,
F. C. Dillard,R. W. Blair and E. H. Crocker, filed a brief
for plaintiff in error on motion to dismiss.
MR.JUSTICE LAfAR delivered the opinion of the court.

In 1899, the Union Pacific found it desirable to have
grain unloaded at its terminals in Council Bluffs in order
that cars might be promptly returned for use on its line.
In consideration that Peavey would there erect and maintain an elevator, it agreed to pay him 1 2 cents per hundred for elevating grain. It subsequently made similar
contracts with what are called "Peavey Companies"
which had elevators along its tracks in the cities of Omaha,
South .Omaha and Kansas City, terminal pbints of the'
Union Pacific. Thereafter it agreed, on certain conditions, to pay for similar service by-elevator companies in
the same cities, even though the elevators were not lo-"
cated immediately on the railroad tracks. It thereupon
filed a Tariff Circular with the Commission, in which the
Union Pacific recited that "to expedite the movement,
and to secure the prompt release and return of equipment, an allowance

.

.

.

will be made" to elevators

performing the service on through grain in carloads,
transferred by the elevators at the points named:
"No allowance will be made when more than fortyeight hours elapse between time of delivery

.

.

.

to

the elevator, or connecting lines and the release and return of the empty cars to the Union Pacific."

UNION PACIFIC R. R. v. UPDIKE GRAIN CO. 217
222 U. S.

Opini6n of the Court.

That company was and is a member of a railway association, which r egulated the switching, loading and unloading of cars. One of its rules provided that:
"Cars received loaded in switching service must be
confined to switching territory and when made empty
-must be returned to the owner if a direct connection
within that territory or Otherwise to the road from which
received or may be loaded in accordance with Rule 2
a, b or c.
Rule 2 (a). "Loaded via any route so that the home
road will participate iq the freight rate; (b) loaded to the
road from which originally received, if such loading is in
the direction of the home road, but not otherwise; (c)
loaded to an intermediate road in the direction of the
home road."
As the Peavey elevators were located alongside the
tracks of the Union Pacific, these rules did not affect their
right to recover for elevation 'service. But, as the elevators of the defendants in error were located on the lines
of other railroads in Omaha and South Omaha, it frequently happened that cars, after being unloaded at their
elevators, were not returned to the Union Pacific, and
that others were not returned within 48 hours. In those
cases the Union Pacific refused to make payment for unloading these cars. The defendants in error filed a complaint with the Commission, asking for reparation. An
order to that effect having been granted, they brought a
joint suit for reparation.
Most of the allegations in the complaint were denied
by the Union Pacific in its answer, which claimed that
nothing was due, because the plaintiffs had not returned
the cars within 48 hours stipulated in the tariff on fld.
It also alleged that the grain had been unloaded through
plaintiffs' private elevators, which were not operated in
the exercise of any public duty, but for the purpose of
private gain; that the handling of the grain was for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U.S.

purpose of having.it weighed, stored, inspected, cleaned,
mixed or otherwise treated in the elevator, and that the
tariff allowing for elevator 'charges in their elevator was
unlawful.
After hearing evidence showing the amount of grain
elevated for which payment had not been made, and considering the tariff and rules of the switching company, the
court directed a verdict in favor of each of the plaintiffs
for the amount shown to be due them. *The judgment as
modified was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
178 Fed Rep. 223, and the railroad brought the case here.
There are forty assignments of error, but they need not be
-separately considered, as the case must be determined by
a few controlling principles:
1. The Union Pacific's contention that payment for
reparation -cannot be made- to the owner who stores and
mixes the grain must first be considered.
The long mooted question as to whether elevation was
such a part of transportation as to bring it within the
jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission was
answered by the act of June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. L. 584, 590,
c. 3591, in which Congress declared that. "the term
'transportation' shall include .
. all . . .. facilities of ,hipment, . .
irrespective of ownership, . . . and' all services in connection with
the . . . elevation, and transfer in transit
and handling of property transported." Carriers were required "to provide and furnish such transportation upon
reasonable request therefor."
The act recognized that the shipper himself might own
the elevator or other facility included within the definition of transportation. For ยง 4 (34 Stat. 590) provides
that "if the owner . . . renders any service connected with such transportation, or furnishes any instrumentality used therein, the charge and allowance
therefor shall be no more than is just and reasonable,"

UNION PACIFIC R. R. v. tJPDIKE GRAIN CO. 219
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the Commission being authorized to determine what was
reasonable.
This act was passed after the decision by the Commission in 1904 (10 I. C. C. 309), that the Peavey contract
was valid, and after the recommendation ihits report for
1905 (p. 11), that it should be given auth6#ty to determine whether the-allowance paid to the owfier was just.
The statute must be taken as a legislative recognition of
the long-continued practice and a declaration that the
incidental advantage derived by the owner was not undue.
In pursuance of the authority thus expressly conferred
the Interstate Commerce Commission, in. April, 1907
(12 I. C. C. 86), fixed the allowance for elevating grain
at Y4 of a cent per hundred pounds, being actual cost,
with no allowance whatever for profit. Its final order
(14 I. C. C. 315), prohibiting any payment to the owner
who performed this transportation service was reversed, as
being beyond the jurisdiction of -the Commission, because
Congfess had expressly permitted such payment to be
made (Interstate Commerce Commission v. Diffenbaugh,
Same v. Peavey, ante, p. 42). The language of the statute
and this decision answer the Union Pacific's contention
that it was unlawful to pay these companies for transportation services.
2. The Union Pacific's desire to have cars promptly
unloaded so that they might be returned to its own line
may have been the principal motive which induced it to
agree to pay elevator charges. But the consideration,
moving between the carrier and the elevator, was the
service performed by the latter in unloading grain at
terminal points. This relieved the carrier of the expense
of building similar structures and avoided the delay of
having. the grain transferred from one car to another by
the slow process of shovelling. When the service was rendered, the carrier received value for which it was bound
to pay, whether performed by the owner of the grain or

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

some other person hired for the same purpose. Having
earned the compensation, the elevator company could
not be deprived of its right because foreign cars were not
returned to the Union Pacific under the rules of the railway association, of which the Union Pacific was a member
and over which the elevator companies had no control.
3. For elevating grain from like foreign cars the Peavey
Companies were paid because their elevators happened to
be located on the Union Pacific tracks. But if the rule is
valid against the plaintiffs, it would put it in the power
of the carrier to say which elevator should be paid, and
which not paid, for performing the same transportation
service. It could load grain belonging to the plaintiffs
into foreign cars, and in spite of the service rendered by
them to the carrier in unloading, no payment would be
made, because these foreign cars, under the rule, were not
returned to the Union Pacific. It is not necessary that
any such improper purpose should be shown to exist. It
might have existed, and if so, could not be proved by the
injured party. The power to make such a discrimination
would prevent the enforcement of any regulation frequently having such operation.
The carrier cannot pay one shipper for transportation
service and enforce an arbitrary rule which deprives another of compensation for similar service. To receive the
benefit of such work by one elevator without- making
compensation therefor would, in effect, be the involuntary
payment by such elevator of a rebate to the railroad company, for it would enable the railroad to receive more net
freight on its grain than was received from its competitor
located on the railroad's tracks. This cannot be directly
done, nor indirectly by means of regulation. A rule apparently fair on its face and reasonable in its terms may,
in fact, be unfair and unreasonable if it operates so as to
give one an advantage of which another similarly situated
cannot avail himself.

UNION PACIFIC R. R. v. UPDIKE GRAIN CO. 221
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

4. The trial court was right in holding that the railroad ccmpany must make reparation by paying for the
elevation of grain in those cars not returned in fortyeight hours, because they belonged to the switching company, or to a road which had a direct connection in the
switching territory (2 a), and in those which when emptied
were routed so that the home road participated in the
freight rate (2 b).
But while elevators off the tracks of the Union Pacific
cannot be affected by unreasonable rules tending to deprive them of just compensation, neither can they disregard the obligation promptly to ,unload, so that the cars
might be put in service as soon as practicable. This was
conceded by the defendants in error, and they accepted
the ruling that they were not entitled to recover for
elevating grain out of some 200 cars, which could have
been unloaded and returned in a much shorter time, but
which they detained beyond the forty-eight hours.
Judgments affirmed.

MR. JUSTICdE MCKENNA and MR. JUSTIcE HUGHES
concur in the result in view of the decision in Interstate
Commerce Commission v. Diffenbaugh, Same v. Peavey,
ante, p. 42.

