OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

222 U. S.

ROCK ISLAND PLOW COMPANY v. REARDON,
TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF BROWN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 98.

Submitted December 11, 1911.-Decided January 9, 1912.

A bankrupt, in Illinois, within a few days of filing a petition in voluntary bankruptcy, confessed judgments upon which executions were
issued and returned unsatisfied but no actual levy was .made;
thereafter and before filing the petition he transferred goods in his
possession to the vendor thereof, who claimed they had been delivered on conditional sales; the trustee began subrogation proceedings to preserve the liens of the judgments for the benefit of the
estate, to which the judgment creditors assented, and also commenced proceedings to compel redelivery of the goods transferred
on ground that lien of judgments inured to estate; the trustee had
also claimed a right to recover the goods on the ground of unlawful
preference; held, that
Under the law of Illinois, delivery to the sheriff of the executions
on the judgments operated without levy to create liens upon the
property of the judgment debtor within the county.
Such liens were paramount to rights in the property possessed by
the vendor under contracts of conditional sale.
The effect of the subrogation order was to render inoperative as
a preference in favor of the judgment creditors the liens obtained through the executions and to preserve such liens as of
the date of filing the petition for the benefit of the estate. First
National Bank v. Staake, 202 U. S. 141.
Liens of execution creditors, as they exist when a petition of involuntary bankruptcy is fied, cannot be subsequently destroyed by acts of the creditors to the prejudice of the estate.
As the holder of the goods had not been prejudicd by the proceedings to recover for unlawful preference, the trustee was not
barred from asserting the lien of the judgments on the same
goods for the benefit of the estate.

168 Fed. Rep. 654, affirmed.

ROCK ISLAND PLOW CO. v. REARDON.
222 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

WHETHER the Plow Company or Reardon, as trustee of
the bankrupt estate of Frank Brown, has the better right
to certain personal property delivered by Brown to the
Plow Company is the question to be decided on this record.
. The facts pertinent to the controversy are these: Brown
was a merchant and engaged in business at Pekia, Tazewell County, Illinois. On November 13, 1907, he confessed judgment for $247.15 and $400 and costs in favor
of a creditor, the Peoria Cordage Company, a corporation,
and on the same day an execution was issued, which was
received and endorsed by the sheriff of Tazewell County
on the following day. On November 23, 1907, Brown
confessed judgment in favor of another creditor, the
D. M. Sechler Carriage Company, a corporation, for the
sum of $282.25 and $400, with costs, and on the same day
execution issued, and on the next day was received and
endorsed by the sheriff of Tazewell County. While these
executions were outstanding and unsatisfied, Brown, on
Novehber 25, 1907, delivered merchandise, consisting of
gang plows, cultivators and other farm implements of the
value of $500, to the Rock Island Company, appellant,
and as the result of the transaction an indebtedness of
Brown to the Plow Company of $406 was extingulshed.
When the goods were delivered to the Plow Company
Brown was insolvent and the Plow Company had reason to
believe that such was the fact. Two days after the delivery of the property to the Plow Company Brown filed
a petition in voluntary bankruptcy, and Reardon was
subsequently qualified as trustee of the bankrupt estate.
Seeking to avail of the provisions of ยง 67, paragraphs c
and f of the Bankruptcy Act, the trustee, on January 21,
1908, filed with the referee a petition setting forth the
* obtaining of the judgments by the Sechler and Cordage
companies heretofore referred to, that the executions
issued on those judgments were liens from the date of
receipt by the sheriff on all the real and personal prop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

222 U. S.

erty of the bankrupt located in Tazewell County, Illinois,
and continued to be liens down to the date of the filing of
the petition in bankruptcy, and prayed that the liens of
said executions might be declared null and void as to the
Sechler and Cordage companies, but might be preserved
for the benefit of the estatein bankruptcy. The creditors
just named entered their appearance and consented that
the prayer of the petition be granted, and an order was
entered on the date when the petition was filed granting
the relief sought.
Three days after the entry of the subrogation order the
trustee commenced this litigation by filing a bill of complaint on the chancery side of the District Court ot the
United States,, Southern District of Illinois, Northern
Division-the same court in which the bankruptcy proceedings were pending. The petition assailed the-transfer
and delivery of property by Brown to the Plow Company
on November 25, 1907, heretofore referred to, as an unlawful preference. The court was asked to decree a surrender of the property to the trustee or payment of its
value. On March 27, 1908, the Plow Company filed its
plea, and therein in substance contended that the assailed
transaction was not an unlawful preference. It averred
that it had previously delivered the property to Brown,
under and by virtue of the terms of certain written con-,
tracts, annexed as exhibits to the plea; that the title of
such property "always was and remained in" the Plow
Company; and, that it "lawfully took and repossessed
itself" of the property by reason of the failure of Brown
to pay for the same according to the contracts. Shortly
after, the trustee, by leave, filed an amendment to his bill
of coinplaint. The amendment consisted in detailing the
facts as to the obtaining of the judgments of the Sechler
and Cordage companies heretofore referred to, and an
issue of executions on the judgments prior to.the transfer
of Brown to -the Plow Company, and that-the executions

ROCK ISLAND PLOW CO. v. REARDON.
222 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

were outstanding at the time of the filing of the petition in
bankruptcy. The proceedings before the referee culminated in the order preserving the liens of the judgments
for the benefit of the bankrupt estate were next set forth,
and it was claimed that the liens thereby preserved were
superior to any claim which the Plow Company had to the
goods in controversy. In a plea'to the amended bill the
Plow Company reiterated the facts upon which it based
the claim that in receiving the goods from Brown it merely
took possession of its own property and had not obtained
an unlawful preference. It further sets forth that when it
received the goods no levy had been made under either of
the executions issued upon the judgments obtained by the
Sechler and Cordage companies, and that in consequence
it had the superior right to the goods. Want of notice of
the subrogation proceedings and the consequent invalidity
of the order of subrogation was also averred. It was in
addition averred that the judgment in favor of the
Cordage Company was hot a valid lien on January 21,
1908, the date when the order of subrogation was made,
because prior thereto the execution had been returned to
the sheriff and filed and docketed in the court which had
issued the same. Furthermore, it was averred that the
execution on the Sechler juidgment had been returned by
the sheriff with an endorsement, "no property found,"
and was filed on February 22, 1908, in the court from which
it had issued, and that rights based upon the issue of such
execution could not be originated thereafter, viz., on
April 16, 1908, when the amended bill was filed.
The. cause was heard upon the sufficiency of the plea
just reviewed, and the plea was held sufficient. The
trustee elected not to file a reply to the plea, and a decree
Was thereupon entered dismissing the bill. On appeal the
decree of dismissal was reversed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals (168 Fed. Rep. 654), and this appeal was then
taken.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellant.

222 U. S

Mr. W. H. Sholes, with whom Mr. Walter H. Kirk was
on the brief, for appellant:
The contracts under which the goods were delivered
to the bankrupt contain a condition that the "right to the
possession of all goods shall remain and inure to the Plow
Company, with the effect that it 'may hold or retake and
subject the same as security (in the manner described by
law for the subjection of chattels and foreclosure of chattel
leases of like nature) to the indebtedness hereby contracted until full payment shall have been made by purchaser."
The character of the transaction is fixed at its inception
and nothing short of a new agreement between the parties
can alter the original nature of the contract. Where it appears from the circumstances of the case that the parties
intended a sale to be conditional, although no condition
has been expressed, a condition to be attached to the
sale may be implied. Story on Sales, ยง 253; 6 Am. & Eng.
Enc. Law (2d ed.), 439; Harkness v. Russell, 118 U. S.
663.
The right to possession was recognized by the parties
to said contracts as equivalent to the retention of title.
No fraud can be attached or urged to the making of said
contracts. The right to possession by the Plow Company
existed on the dates of making of said contracts but was
only exercised on November 25, 1907, before the rights of
third parties had intervened.
These contracts cannot be construed otherwise than
as contracts of conditional sale, and the validity of such
by the courts of Illinois.
contracts is well recogniz
Emerson Piano Co. v. Maund, 85 Ill. App. 453; Kimball
Co.,v. Cruikshank, 123 Ill. App. 581; O'Neil v. Rogers, 110
Ill. App. 662.
The trustee in bankruptcy stands in the shoes of the
bankrupt himself and takes no better title than the bankrupt had as of the date of adjudication. He does not take

ROCK ISLAND PLOW CO. v. REARDON.
222 U. S.

359

Argument for Appellant.

the estate of the bankrupt as an innocent purchaser or a
third person, but takes subject to all valid liens, claims and
demands outstanding against the bankrupt. Thompson
v. Fairbanks,196 U. S. 516; Hardinv. Osborne, 94 Illinois,

571; Burgett v. Paxton, 99 Illinois, 288; O'Hara v. Jones,
46 Illinois, 288; Matter of Bates, Assignee, 118 Illinois,
524; Field v. Ridgely, 116 Illinois, 424; Union Trust Co.
y. Trumbull, 137 Illinois, 146.

In other words, the trustee, to prevail in this cause,
must find some creditor of the bankrupt who had a better
right to the" Plow Company's goods in the hands of the
bankrupt on the day the Plow Company took them from
the bankrupt, than the Plow Company itself had, and
must, if at all, succeed in his contentions, here, by being
subrogated to that creditor's rights for the benefit of. the
entire bankrupt estate. If there was no such creditor,
or if that creditor's rights have been. lost by laches or limitations, the trustee cannot now prevail. The statutory
or judicially determined rules of property of Illinois control and determine the validity of such liens, if any, as
the Cordage. Company and the Carriage Company obtained by their judgments and executions. Collier on
Bankruptcy (6th ed.), 553; Humphrey v. Tatman, 198
U. S. 91; In re FirstNat'l Bank, 135 Fed. Rep. 62; In re
Greene, 134 Fed. Rep. 137.
Under the laws and judicially determined rules of
property in Illinois, the liens of the Cordage Company and
Carriage Company executions which had not been perfected and made absolute and effective by levy, were, on
November 25, 1907, defeated and lost in consequence of
the repossession of its goods then in the possession -of the
bankrupt, by the Plow Company under the said. conditional sale contracts, and thereafter neither the sheriff nor
the trustee had the right to follow and take the saie away
from the Plow Company. People v. Johnson, 4 Brad.
(Ill. App.) 346; Peters v. McConnell, 16 Ill. App. 526;

360 "

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellee.

222 U. S.

Travers v. Cook, 42 Ill. App. 580 (582); Minor v. Herriford,
'25 Illinois, 344; Davidson v. Waldron, 31 Illinois, 120;
Chittenden v. Rogers, 42 Illinois, 100; Mulheisen v. Lane,
82 Illinois, 117. See also Davidson v. Waldron, 31 Illinois,
120; Powers v. Wheeler, 63 Illinois, 29; In re J. B. Hopkins, 1 Am. Bk. Rep. 209.
Mr. Franklin L. Velde, with whom Mr. Ira J. Covey
was on the brief, for appellee:
The contracts under which the appellants claim to have
Taken possession of the goods in question were fraudulent
and void as to the appellee acting as trustee in bankruptcy.
The 6ntracts in question were not conditional sale
contracts as they did not contain any provision retaining
title in the seller.
Treated as conditional sale contracts, they furnished no
defense to the rights of the appellee as trustee who was
vested with the rights of execution creditors under the
subrogation order of the district court.
Where goods are sold to the bankrupt upon credit, and
upon the understanding that the title to such of them as
should not be sold by him should remain in the vendor until payment of the purchase price or that the goods or the
proceeds should be held by the purchaser as security the
purchaser being in actual possession, the transaction
cannot be upheld as a conditional sale, and is a fraud upon
the creditors of the vendee. The title to the goods vests
absolutely in the buyer and passes to his trustee in bankruptcy under' ยง70a. In re Garcewich, 8 Am. Bk. Rep.
149; 115 Fed. Rep. 87; Pontiac Buggy Co. v. Skinner,
158 Fed. Rep. 858; Robinson v. Elliott, 22 Wall. 513;
In re Rodgers, 125 Fed. Rep. 169; In re Carpenter, 125
Fed. Rep. 831; Security Warehouse Co. v. Hand, 206 U. S.
415; In re Antigo Screen'Door Co., 123 Fed. Rep. 249;
In re Rasmussen, 136 Fed. Rep. 704; In re Gault, 120 Fed.
Rep. 443; Skilton v. Codington, 185 N. Y. 80; In re Perkins,

ROCK ISLAND PLOW .O. v. REARDON.
222 U. S.

361

Argument for Appellee.

155 Fed. Rep. 231; In re George Hassam, 153 Fed. Rep.
932; Union Trust Co..v. Trumbell, 137 Illinois, 146; Deering
Shoe Co. v. Washburn, 141 Illinois, 153; In re Tucker,
161 Fed. Rep. 584; Mitchell v. Mitchell, 147.Fed. Rep. 280.
The agreements in this case are peculiar. They do not
contain the ustial provisions of contracts of this kind that
the title to the goods-shall remain in the vendor until they
are paid for. The most that can be said of these contracts
is that they give to the vendor a sort of chattel mortgage
lien.
The trustee stands in the position of an execution
creditor. Section 67, pars. c and f of the Bankruptcy Act
of 1898; First NationalBank v. Staake, Trustee, 202 U. S.
141; In re N. Y. Economical Printing Co., 110 Fed. Rep.
514; In re.Merrow, 131 Fed. Rep. 993.
The only controversy here possible concerning the
rights arising thereunder is between the attaching creditor
and the trustee. As both these parties are agreed that the
latter shall be subrogated to the rights of the former, the
judgment of the referee is affirmed. See In re N. Y. Printing Co., 6 Am. Bk. Rep. 615; 110 Fed. Rep. 514; 49 C. C.
A. 133.
Under the law of Illinois these goods which the Plow
Company received from the bankrupt two days before
the petition was filed and while both of these executions
were in the hands of the sheriff, could have been levied
upon by him. PeoriaMfg. Co. v. Lyons, 153 Illinois, 427;
Chattel Mortgage Act, 2 Starr & Curtiss, 2743; St. Louis
Iron Works v. Kimbdll, 53 Ill. App. 636.
If the goods could have been levied upon by the sheriff
under these executions, then the trustee din bankruptcy
representing now, as he does, these execution creditors,
has the right to the goods in question. In re Antigo Screen
Door Co., 123 Fed. Rep.. 249; Collier on Bankruptcy (6th
ed.), 588; see also Gilbert v. National Cash Register Co., 176
Illinois, 288, and, cases cited.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The only question arising for decision is whether the
facts set up in the plea of the Plow Company are sufficient to exempt that company from accountability to the.
trustee for receiving a preference within the terms of 'the
Bankruptcy Act. The consideration which this question
received in the opinion delivered by the Circuit Court of
Appeals makes unnecessary any elaborate review of the
subject.
We assume, for the sake of argument, as did the Circuit
Court of Appeals, that the contracts by virtue 'of which
the Plow Company claimed it re-took possession of the
property in question were conditional sale contracts,
whereby the Plow Company retained in itself the title
and right of possession of its goods until paid for by
Brown, and that by virtue of such contracts the taking or
re-taking of the property in question was valid as between the Plow Company and the bankrupt. The inquiry
then is whether the contracts and the possession taken
thereunder of the property in controversy by the Plow
Company are operative to bar the rights asserted by the
trustee in and by force of the subrogation proceeding.
The claim of the trustee was -in substance, 1, that delivery to the sheriff of executions upon the Sechler and
Cordage judgments operated without levy to create liens
upon the real and personal property of Brown the judgment debtor within the county; 2, that such liens were
paramount to rights in.the property possessed by a vendor
under a contract of conditional sale; and, 3, that the effect
of the subrogation order was to render inoperative as a
preference the liens obtained by the judgment creditors
through their executions, and to preserve such liens as of
the- date of the filing of the proceedings in voluntary
bankruptcy for the benefit of the estate in bankruptcy.

ROCK ISLAND PLOW CO. v. REARDON.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

That the Circuit Court of Appeals rightly held the affirmative of these three propositions we entertain no
doubt. Upon the first two propositions that court said

(p. 658):
"As the law of Illinois must govern the answer to both
questions, and the rule there is well settled, as we believe, for an affirmative answer to each, no difficulty appears in the solution. Paragraph 9 of chapter 77, Rev.
St. Ill., '1874 (2 Starr & C. Ann. St., 1896, p. 2336) provides: 'No execution shall bind the goods and chattels
of the person against whom it is issued, until it is delivered
to thesheriff or other proper officer to be executed.'
This is a modification of the rule- at common law-which
created a lien from the issuance of the writ, and its effect
to create a lien in favor of the execution creditor is recognized in numerous decisions noted in Starr & C. Ann.
St., supra. See Frink v. Pratt& Co., 130 Illinois, 327, 331,
one of the citations in appellee's brief. The cases cited
contra, declaratory of the rule that an officer receiving
the execution has 'no interest in the property itself' to
maintain an action therefor 'until after a levy,' do not
touch the present inquiry of lien in favor of the execution
creditor, and are plainly inapplicable. Upon the second
question, it is stated in Gilbertv. Nat. Cash Register Co., 176
Illinois, 288, 296, that 'whatever may be the rule in other
jurisdictions,' this rule is established in Illinois: 'If a
person agrees to sell to anotther a chattel on condition that
the price shall be paid within a certain time, retaining the
title in himself in the meantime, and delivers the chattel
to the vendee so as to clothe him with an apparent ownership, a bona fide purchaser or elecution credito of the
latter is entitled to protection as against the claim of the
original vendor.' The authorities there cited for such
rule are deemed sufficient reference; and we remark that
no departureappears from the doctrine thus stated in any
of the Illinois cases called to our attention."

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

It is significant that in the argument at bar counsel for
the Plow Company make no attempt to point out wherein
the authorities cited by the court are not applicable and
authoritative on the propositions which they were cited
as supporting, and indeed entirely omit any reference to
them.
The decision in FirstNational Bank v. Staake, 202 U. S.
141, 146, is authoritative upon the last propoaition. As
the executions issued upon the judgments, which executio~s were held by the sheriff for levy, operated to create
liens upon the property in question, then in the possession
of Brown although held under conditional sale contracts,
and such liens were paramount to the rights of the vendor,
the Plow Company, it is manifest that the right of the
judgment creditors to resort to such property in satisfaction of their liens could not be destroyed by a mere transfer
of possession from one party to the contract to the other
party thereto. It also follows in reason, we think, that the
liens of the execution creditors in the property as they
existed when the petition in involuntary bankruptcy was
filed could not be subsequently destroyed by the acts
of the creditors, the third parties, to the prejudice of the
estate, and that if the rights of the bankrupt estate could
be lost by the laches of the trustee, the record presents
no evidence of such laches. The circumstance that the
trustee, in ignorance perhaps of the existence of the conditional sale contracts, first based the right to relief solely
upon the. claim that an unlawful preference was created
through the payment by means. of the transfer made by
Brown, when insolvent, of an indebtedness to the Plow
Company, did not operate to the prejudice of the Plow
Company and was plainly insufficient to bar the trustee
from asserting an additional right to the relief prayed,
viz., the right growing out of the subrogation order made
prior to the commencement of the litigation.
Decree affirmed.

