PETERS v. BROWARD.
Syllabus.

222 U. S.

-PETERS v. BROWARD.1
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 49. Argued November 8, 1911.-Decided January 9, 1912.
Under the law of Florida, as declared by its highest court, where there
is a variance between the title of a bill as enrolled and promulgated
and the title of the act as shown by the journals, the latter will
control.
While the judgment of the highest court of the State in a case may not
be res judicata of the case at bar, the parties and lanid affected not
being the same, if in deciding it the court announces what the law of
the State is and whether a particular statute was orwas not validly
enacted under the state constitution, this court will follow it as an
authoritative announcement of the law of the State.
Whether a particular state law haLbeen passed by the legislature in
such manner as to become a valid law under the state constitution
is a state and not a Federal question, and Federal courts must follow the adjudications of the state court.
Although. the decision of the state court holding a particular law to be
unconstitutional may not have been rendered until after rights
based thereon had arisen, if the highest court simply followed a rule
laid down before such rights had.arisen, the decision in the later case
is binding upon the Federal courts.
Where the state courts have held that the journals of the legislature
can be examined to determine whether'an act has been validly
passed, it is the duty of one proposing to rely upon the act to examine the journals, and he cannot plead ignorance of the law as an
excuse for not doing so.
This court cannot hold that an act is constitutional under the state
law because the defect on which the stati court declared it to be
unconstitutional occurred through mistake, when the state court
has passed on that -question and held the act unconstitutional even
under such condition.
Although the case may be a hard one, those who expend money on the
faith of an invalid act cannot obtau redress from the courts but
must apply to the legislature.
i

Original docket title Peters v. Gilbrist.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellant.

222 U. S.

An act of the State of Florida, incorporating a railroad company and
granting it aid, having been held unconstitutional by the highest
court of that State because the journal showed that it was an act to
incorporate only, and only one subject can be embraced in one act,
the Federal courts are bound to follow that decision, and to hold that
Trustees of the Internal Improvement Fund had no power to convey land under that act, and that the grantees have no title to any
of the lands claimed thereunder.

THE facts, which involve the title to land in Florida
under an act of the legislature of that State, are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. John Stevens Maxwell, with whom Mr. Thomas F.
McGarry was on the brief, for appellant:
In order to entitle the defendants to raise the question
here raised, a plea alleging matter, which. if appearing on
the face of the bill, would have been . good cause of demurrer, should have been resorted to, or the bill should
have been answered. Griffing v. Gibb, 2 Black,519.
Even if plaintiff's rights are to be determined entirely
by the validity, or invalidity of the act of May 24, 1893,
and the journals of the legislature are to control or furnish
the evidence of its title and the regularity- of its -enactment, or otherwise, proof must be taken as to what constitutes the journals and the entries required to be made
therein by the constitution of the State; and any errors,
or mistakes, may be shown in order to conform the
journals to the exact facts. Slate v. Mason, 9 So. Rep.
776, 787, 804; Koehler v. Hill, 14 N. W. Rep. 738,
742.
'To overcome the presumption that the act was properly
enacted the contrary must be shown by clear and indisputable proof.
In those jurisdictions wbere resort may be had to the
legislative journals and where enrolled bills signed by the
presiding officers and governor are not conclusive when

PETERS v. BROWARD.
222 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

it appears from the journals that some constitutional
requirement was not observed, which was not required
to be entered on the journal, it will be presumed that
what was commanded to be done was in fact done. 26
Am. & Eng. Ency. Law, 541; State v. Hocker (Fla.), 18
So. Rep. 767; Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649; Potter v. Lainhart, 33 So. Rep. 251, 257; Cooley, Const. Lim. 168.
It is competent for *plaintiff to prove that the short
abbreviated title to the bill was the result .of a mistake or
omission. Walnut v. Wade, 103 U. S.683, 692.
The case is not res judicata because of the former ruling
of the state court. The rule both in the Florida courts
and the United States courts is that a judgment or decree
upon demurrer is an adjudication only of the rights of the
parties upon the allegations of the pleading demurred to,
and will not preclude the assertion of the right under other
material allegations not appearing in the former suit.
Gilman v. Rives, 10 Pet. 301; Gould v. E. & C. R. R. Co.,
91 U. S. 526; Wiggins Ferry Co. v. Ohio &c. R. R. Co.,
142 U. S. 410; Florida Southern Ry. Co. v. Brown, 23
Florida, 104.
This court is not bound by the finding of the Supreme
Court in the Atlantic Lumber Company Case, that the act
was not in fact validly passed. Morris v. Mason, 9 So.
Rep. 776; Wilkes County v. Coler, 180 U. S.506, 520.
The journals cannot be held conclusive evidence of the
title of the bill as introduced, without denying the opportunity of showing the real facts, which amounts to
deprivation of property without due process of law. The
rule is the same as that as to tax titles. Cooley on Taxation, 356. See also Black on Tax Titles, ยง 253; Kelly v.
Herrall, 20 Fed. Rep. 895; Abbott v. Lindenbower, 42
Missouri, 162; Bannon v. Burnes, 39 Fed. Rep. 895;
Ewart v. Davis, 76 Missouri, 356; McReady v. Sexton, 29
Iowa, 356.
The defendants' attitude is this: An act of the legisla-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellant.

222 U. S.

ture in form and title complying with all legal requirements was introduced and validly enacted into law; it was
accepted by all parties as valid and hundreds of thousands of dollars were expended under it by the predecessors in interest of the plaintiff and thousands of acres
of land were earned by them under it, and certificates
given them of this fact. Yet because the confessedly
hasty, careless and inaccurate entries in the legislative
journals, for convenience abbreviated the title of the act
conferring these rights, it is conclusively presumed to be
void and plaintiff's rights defeated, notwithstanding the
actual existence of the rights and the long acquiescence
therein of all parties in interest.
Such a ruling denies to this court as a court of equity
the exercise of the wide and well established power which
it possesses to correct mistakes and to adjudge rights of
the parties as they really are. State v. Jacksonville Terminal Co., 41 Florida, 363; Hope v. Mayer, 72 Georgia,
246; Connor v. Green Pond R. R. Co., 23 So. Car. 427;
Schuyler County v. Rock Island R. R. Co., 25 Illinois, 181,
183; Mahomet v. Quackenbush, 117 U. S.511; Fireman's
Association v. Loundsbury, 21 Illinois, 511; People v.
Mahany, 13 Michigan, 481; Cooley on Const. Lim. 205.
It would have been unnecessary to make the title
broaaer than the actual title, and the other provisions
are surplusage. But their presence does not invalidate the
act, as they relate to matters germane to the object of the
act. State v. Jacksonville Terminal Co., 41 Florida, 363;
State v Arnold, 140 Indiana, 628.
A liberal rule of construction should be.applied when
the constitutionality of legislative enactments is questioned, and every reasonable doubt should be resolved in
favor of the constitutionality of the act. Holton v. State,
28 Florida, 308; Duval County v. Jacksonville, 36 Florida,
196; State v. Hocker, 36 Florida, 358.
Only such legislative acts should be overthrown as are

PETERS v. BROWARD.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

clearly and obviously offensive to their spirit and meaning. See cases supra.
The State and trustees are equitably estopped, under
the circumstances set out in the bill, and admitted by the
demurrers. They will not now be permitted to set up the
unconstitutionality of the act. And the Federal courts
will exercise their own independent judgment upon the
subject. Pleasant Township Co. v. ,tna Life Ins. Co.,
138 U. S.67, 72; Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S.20, 23.
Where there had been no decision at all of a state court
as to the constitutionality of an act before rights had
been acquired thereunder, the Federal court will exercise
its own independent judgment as to the validity and obligations of contracts made under the act before the state
court held it unconstitutional. Anderson v. Santa Anna,
116 U. S.356, 362.
Mr. William S. Jennings and Mr. William A. Blount,
with whom Mr.A. C. Blount, Jr., was on the brief, for
appellees.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The complainant, Richard G. Peters, through mesne
conveyances, asserts an equitable title to some two hundred thousand acres of swamp or overflowed lands in the
State of Florida, being a part of the congressional grant
of September 28, 1850, to the State of Florida. By state
-legislation the title to the lands so granted was vested in
the Governor of the State and four other state officials
and their successors in office, as trustees, for the purposes
set forth in an act of June 6, 1855, entitled "An act to provide for and 'encourage a liberal system of internal improvement in this State."
The title asserted is based upon a grant in aid of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

construction of a railroad, found in a legislative act of
May 24, 1893, printed in the session laws of Florida for
1893 (Ch. 4267, No. 153, p. 223). That act purports to incorporate the Atlantic, Suwanee River and Gulf Railway
Company, and authorizes it to construct, and operate a
railway between certain points within the State. The
ninth and tenth sections read as follows:
"SE. 9. That the State of Florida, for the purpose of
aiding the construction of said railroad, its branches and
extensions, hereby grants unto said company ten thousand
acres of land for each mile of railroad it may construct,
of the lands granted to the State of Florida, under the Act
of Congress of September 28th, 1850, and which are commonly known as the swamp and overflowed lands; said
lands to be deeded to the said company by the Trustees
of the Internal Improvement Fund, as fast as each five
miles of said road or any of its branches are graded,
crosstied and rails laid thereon.
"SEc. 10. That upon the filing of a certificate of the
.completion of any five miles of said road or any of its
branches, signed by the engineer and president of the said
company, it shall be the duty of the Trustees of the Internal Improvement Fund to require the State Engineer or
some other competent person to examine and inspect each
five miles of road so completed; and on such person's or the
State Engineer's report that the five miles are completed
as certified, it shall be the duty of the Trustees of the
Internal Improvement Fund to issue deeds to the said
corporation, as required in the foregoing section; Provided, That the said corporation, its successors and assign,
shall have the privilege of requiring and having from the
Trustees of the Internal Improvement Fund a certificate
authorizing and entitling it to locate the lands which it
may at any time have earned and become entitled to as
aforesaid; and whenever and as often as the said corporation shall file with the Trustees of the Internal Improve-

PETERS v. BROWARD.
222 U. S.

Opiniou of the Court.

ment Fund a plot and survey of the lands located by it
in pursuance of a certificate given it by the Trustees as
herein provided, the said Trustees shall set apart and
upon demand execute unto said corporation, its successors or assigns, a deed conveying unto it the lands described in said plot and survey, from the swamp and
overflowed lauds granted to the State of Florida by the
Act of Congress of September 28, 1859; Provided, That
nothing in this Act contained shall make the State of
Florida liable by reason of any deficiency there may exist
in the public lands belonging to the State under and by
virtue of the Act of Congress of September 28, 1850."
By the eighteenth section of said act it was provided
that the railway company should receive the same quota
of land on account of the construction of any part of the
projected line.by the Atlantic, Suwanee River and Gulf
Railroad Company, theretofore incorporated for the same
general purpose, upon receiving a conveyance of such constructed railroad.'
The bill avers that the said railway company constructed twenty miles of railway, including about five
miles conveyed to it by the predecessor company above
referred to, which had been inspected and certified to the
Trustees of the Internal Improvement Fund by the state
engineer, and that the company, in the exercise of the
privileges conferred by the fenth section of the act, had
demanded and received from said trustees certificates
"authorizing and entitling it to locate lands" so earned,
and to receive from the said trustees a deed conveying to
it, its successors or assigns, the lands so located. It is
then averred that the -certificates, -together with survey
and map of locations had been regularly filed with the
trustees, and a deed demanded, but that the trustees refused to make such deed and later conveyed- the lands so
located, or the greater part thereof, to the defendant Neil
G. Wade, who had full notice of appellant's title, and who

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Opinion of the Court.

222 U.S.

subsequently conveyed the same to the defendant the
Southern Timber and Naval Stores Company, who, it is
alleged, also had full notice of the prior right of the said
Atlantic, Suwanee River and Gulf Railway Company, and
its assigns, including the present complainant.
The prayer of the bill is that the Southern Timber and
Naval Stores Company be adjudged to hold same in trust
for complainant and required to convey same to him. In
the alternative, the bill asks a decree against theTrustees
of the Internal Improvement Fund for the value of said
lands, or for the money received by the trustees for said
lands, and for general relief.
The bill was dismissed upon demurrer.
It is evident from the facts stated that the origin and
foundation of the title asserted by the bill to the state
lands now held by the Southern Timber- and Naval Stores
Company is the land grant made or proposed in the
Florida act of May 24, 1893. But that act, in another
litigation between different parties, was held null and
void in so far as its land grant clauses are concerned. Wade
v. Atlantic Lumber Co., 51 Florida, 628. The ground of
this holding was that the title of the act, as shown by the
journals of the two houses, was not broad enough to include a grant of public lands. The constitution of the
State includes a provision against more than one subject
in the same bill, that subject to be indicated by the title.
Thus, the sixteenth section of Article III of the Florida
constitution reads as follows:
"Each law enacted in the Legislature shall embrace but
one subject and matter properly connected therewith,
which subject shall be briefly expressed in the title."
The title of the act in question, as it is found in the
published Session Acts of 1893, is as follows:
"An act to Incorporate the Atlantic, Suwanee River
and Gulf Railway Company, to Grant Said Corporation
certain Privileges and to Aid the Construction thereof."

PETERS v. BROWARD.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The title, as shown by the journals of both houses, was
in these words:
"A bill to be entitled an act to incorporate the Atlantic, Suwanee River & Gulf Railway Company."
Thus, the title, as shown by the journals, gives no notice that the bill grants public lands as an aid to construction, but purports to be no more than an incorporating act, while the act, as officially promulgated, bears a
title expressing its contents.
But when there is a variance between-the title of a bill
as enrolled and promulgated and the title of the act as.
shown by the journals, the latter will control under the
express decision of the highest court of the Staxe of
Florida. Wade v. Atlantic Lumber Co., 51 Florida, 628.
In that case the Atlantic Lumber Company asserted
title to certain swamp lands located under certificates
issued to the Atlantic, Suwanee River and Gulf Railway
Company, by authority of this act of May 24, 1893,
which lands had been deeded to -the defendant Neil G.
Wade by the Trustees of the Internal. Improvement Fund.
The defendant Wade demurred to the bill upon the ground
that the act of May 24, 1893, the sole source of the superior
title asserted by the Atlantic Lumber Company, was invalid in so far as it included a land grant, because the title
of the act did not express that purpose of the bill.
The Fiorida court took-judicial notice of the journals of
the -Florida legislature, and finding the journal title to
be as set out above, held the title of the act insufficient
under the constitution to embrace a grant of public lands
in aid of the company incorporated.
We shall pass by the suggestion that the judgment in
the case referred to is an adjudication binding. upon the
parties to this suit as to the title or equities here in litigation, it not sufficiently appearing that the parties or the
lands in suit are the same. Neither shall we stop to consider the effect of that decision and opinion as absolutely

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

determining the invalidity of the act of May 24, 1893, as
against parties not then before the court. It is enough
for the purposes of'this case that we shall hold that case
to be an"authoritative announcement of the law of Florida
in these respects: first, that under the constitution of that
State an act entitled an act to incorporate a particular
railway company does not bear a title sufficiently broad
to embrace a grant of public land in aid of the construction
of the authorized railway; and, second, that when the
journals speak and show a variance between the journal
-title and the title of a bill as enrolled and promulgated,
the journal title must control.
- The question as to whether a particular law has been
passed in such manner as to become a valid law under the
constitution of the State is a state and not a Federal question. Courts of the United States are therefore under obligation to follow the -adjudications of the courts of the
State whose law is in question. Town of South Ottawa v.
Perkins, 94 U. S. -260; Leeger v., Texas, 139 U. S. 462, 467;
Wilkes County v. Coler, 180 U. S. 506.
The only authority which the Trustees of the Internal
Improvement Fund had for the issuance of the certificates
now held by the appellant, or for their location upon the
public land of the State, or the execution of a deed to the
locator, proceeds from this act. If that enactment be
invalid the trustees had no authority to issue such certificates, and, no authoilty to make the deed which was
demanded for lands located by means of such certificates.
Yet this very enactment has been -declared invalid by the
highest court of the State upon an examination by that
court of the journals of the legislature showing a variance
between the title of the bill as enrolled and the title shown
by the journal. It would be a most remarkable occurrence
if now, upon the same journals, we should hold that the
bill had a sufficient title and wao a valid law.
It is true that the issues in the case of Wade v. Atlantic

PETERS v. BROWARD.

222 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

Lumber Company were raised by demurrer. But the
question of whether the enactment was a valid law is a
judicial question. In the case of the State of Florida v.
Brown, 20 Florida, 407, a case decided ten years before this
act was passedit was held that the courts would examine
the journals of the legislature and would hold a law invalid -if from such journals it appeared that the law in
question had not been' constitutionally enacted. See also
State. ez rel. v. Green, 36 Florida, 154. In view of the cases
cited, we find the Florida court saying, in Wade v. Atlantic
Lumber Company, that "this court is firmly committed
t9 the holding.that when the journals speak, they control."
The suggestion that the rights of the appellant, ow his
assignors, arose before the decision .in Wade v.. Atlantic
Lumber Company, and that the case is therefore one in
which this court should exercise an independent judgment under -the authority of such cases as Burgess v.
Seligmhn, 107 U. S. 20, is without merit.
The rule appealed to is not applicable, because the
highest court of the State had, before the acquirement of
any rights, laid down the rule that if the. joznals of the
legislature should show that a law had not been validly
enacted, the fact would be fatal. It was theref6re incumbent upon persons proposing to rely upon the act of
May 24, 1893, to examine .the journals. Indulgence cannot be claimed because they did not know the law or did
not, make such examination. There is, therefore, no reasbn
for declining to follow the case of Wade'v. Atlantic Lumber
Company. In Ottawa v. Perkins,.cited above, Mr.. Justice
Bradley, speaking for this court upon a similar question,
said (p. 268):
*"Butthe law under consideration has been passed upon
by the Supreme Court of Illinois, and held to be.invalid.
This'ought to have been sufficient to have governed the
action of the court below. In our judgment it was not
necessary to have raised an issue on the- subject, except

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

by demurrer to the declaration. This court is bound to
know the law without taking the advice of a jury on the
subject. When once it became the settled construction
of the constitution of Illinois that no act can be deemed
a valid law, unless, by the journals of the legislature, it
appears to have been regularly passed, by both houses, it
became the duty of the courts to take judicial notice of the
journal entries in that regard. The courts of Illinois may
decline to take that trouble, unless parties bring the matter to their attention; but, on general principles, the
question as to the existence of a law is a judicial one, and
must be so regarded by the courts of the United States."
But appellants say that the bill alleges that the title of
the bill when introduced was that shown by the enrolled
bill, and that it retained that title throughout each legislative stage, and that the other title endorsed on the bill
and spread upon the journals was one made through inadvertence or mistake. They further say that the demurrer admits this to be true. But in point of law,
evidence of the facts stated would not help the matter.
The Florida court,-in Wade v. Atlantic Lumber Company,
supra, denied a rehearing of the original case, sought for
.the purpose of inducing a modification of the opinion and
decree to enable the complainant Wade to show the very
facts now averred in the present bill. To this that court
said (51 Florida, 639):
"The appellee also asks that the decree be modified to
enable the petitioner to show that the title to the bill as
actually introduced into the House and at all subsequent
stages was in the form as ,now published, and that the
fact of the shorter form appearing in the Journals was due
to the mistake or carelessness of the clerks. To grant
this request would be to permit uncertain parol evidence
to countervail the legislative journals and would produce
overwhelming uncertainty as to the validity, force or
effect. of every law upon the statute books; if admitted

PETERS v. BROWARD.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for the purpose of sustaining an act, it would be equally
admissible to overthrow an act and cannot be permitted."
We need, not deal with the argument that the grant operated to pass the title to the lands located without more,
since the invalidity of the act disposes of every right which
might otherwise proceed from it.
Neither does the bill state any facts which authorize us
to hold that the Trustees of the Internal Improvement
Fund made any contract in reference to granting aid in
the construction of the Atlantic, Suwanee River and Gulf
Railway by virtue of their general power under the act
of September 28, 1850, vesting title to the state swamp
lands in them. Every act averred to have been done by
them was but a step in pursuance of the power which was
sought to be conferred by the act of May 24, 1893. Their
subsequent conveyance of the lands upon which the certificates issued by them to the railway company was in
pursuance of a sale made by them to Neil G. Wade, and
their refusal to make a deed of the same lands to the railway company, or its assigns, -was based upon the invalidity of the enactment under which such deed was claimed.
They incurred, neither personally nor officiOlly, any responsibility for their conduct in the matter.
The case of the railway company and their assigns is a
hard one. They went forward under an enactment which
Was invalid, and have made large expenditures upon the
faith of a law which they assumed was valid. But the
consequences are not remediable save by an appeal to the
legislative power. The proceeds of the sale of the lands
located under the void certificates to Wade are not charged
with any lien or equity by any of the facts stated in the
bill.
The decree of the Circuit Court must be in all things

Affirmed.

