OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

222 t. S.

HERRERA v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 89. Argued December 11, 12. 1911.-Decided January 15, 1912.
War makes the citizens or subjects of one belligerent enemies of the
government, citizens and subjedts of the other.
During the war with Spain Cuba was enemy's country; and all persons residing there pending the war, whether Spanish subjects or
Americans, were to be deemed enemies of the United States, and
their property enemy's property and subject to seizure, confiscation
and destruction.
Property in the harbor after the capitulation of Santiago remained
enemy property, and seizures thereof by the United States were
acts of war.
Nothing in the President's proclamation of July 13, 1898, militated
against the right of the United States t6 confiscate enemy's property for the use of the army of occupation.
There is a distinction between the capture of an enemy's port in a war
with a foreign country, and the restoration of national authority
over territory in a civil war and in the protection of property after
caltur.
The Venice, 2 Wall. 258, distinguished.
There is a distinction between a seizure of. private property of an
enemy for immediate use of the army and the taking of such property as booty of war. PlantersBank v. Union Bank, 16 Wall. 483.
Under the prohibitions of the Tucker Act, the Court of Claims has
no jurisdiction for claims for seizures made in Santiago after its
capitulation in violation of the President's proclamation of July 13,
1898, or of the laws of war.
1 ight of Spanish subjects against the United States for indemnity for
illegal seizures and detention of property during the war of 1898
was taken away by the treaty of peace. Hijo v. United States, 194
U. S. 315. 43 CG. Cl. 430, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the Court
of Claims3 and the liability of the United States for use of
memy vessels seized during the war with Spain, are stated
"nthe opinion.

HERRERA v. UNITED STATES.
22 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

Mr. Howard Thayer Kingsbury and Mr. Crammond
Kennedy, with whom Mr. Frank D. Pavey was on the
brief, for appellants:
The President's instructions of July 13, 1898, govern the
case at bar; and, while they were framed to meet the
situation created by the capitulation of Santiago, they
are in accordance with the laws of war defining the reciprocal rights and obligations of the oecupying power and
the inhabitants of the occupied territory-see decision of
Sir William Scott (Lord Stowell) in the prize cases at
capitulation of Genoa, 4 Robinson, Adm. Reps. 388.
If the shipping was seized before the capitulation and not
released by any of the articles, it could be held by the captor for condemnation or ransom, but if the seizure was
made after that time, it would be considered, not as the
exercise of any rights of war but as mere lawless rapine
and plunder. See also 3 Phillimore's Int. Law, 3d ed.
.192.
As to legal effect of military occupation on the inhabitants and their property in the occupied territory, see
The Venice, 2 Wall. 258, a vessel seized after capture of
New Orleans, in which itwas held that the vessel though
undoubtedly enemy's property at the time she was anchored .in Lake Pontchartrain, could not be regarded as
remaining such after the sixth of May.
This opinion was unanimous, and it has been cited
by this court with approval in the following cases: The
Baigorry, 2 Wal. 481; The Reform,.3 WaL. 617; The Peterhoff, 5 Wall. 60; Ouachita Cotton, 6 Wall. 531; The Grapeshot, 9 Wall. 131; United States v. Padelford, 9 Wall. 541;
Levy v. Stewart, 11 Wall. 253; Mail Co. v. Flanders,.12
Wall. 134; Hamilton v. Diflin, 21 Wall. 94; Desmare v.
United States, 93 U. S. 611; Burbank v. Conrad, 96 U. S.
301; Clark v. United States, 99 U. S. 496.
In Cross v. Harrison, 16 How. 164, it was held that
the formation of the civil government in California,.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellants.

222 U. S.

when it was effected, was the lawful exercise of belligerent
right over a conquered territory, and that this power is
given by the law of nations for the purpose of protecting
the inhabitants of the occupied territory and their persons and property. And it is for this reason that, both
under the common law and the law of nations, conquered
states or districts retain their old laws until the conqueror
or military occupant thinks fit to alter them. See Planters
Bank v. Union Bank, 18 Wall. 483.
All of the Aaost recent authors concur in this view. See
especially Les Requisitions Militaires du Temps de Guerre
by Ch.Pont, 85, 86; Latifi's "Effect of War on Property,"
London, 1909, 30; Bernier, "De l'Occupation Militaire,"
108; Kent's Comm. 14th ed. 92.
The rules and regulations prescribed by the President
in his instructions of July 13, 1898, to the Secretary of
'War, were in accordance with the laws governing the firm
,and permanent occupation of enemy territory, apart from
the fact of capitulation (as distinguished from capture by
assault), or from the fact that the capitulated territory
was held by the United States "in trust for the people of
Cuba." Neely v. Henkle, 180 U. S.109, 120. These rules
were substantially the same as those formulated by the
Brussels Conference in 1874 for the military occupation
of enemy territory and incorporated in 1899 into the
"Convention as to the Laws and Customs of War on
Land," adopted at The Hague, to which the United States
and all the leading powers of the world have become
parties.
These rules are substantially the same as Lieber's Code
(General Order, No. 100), any differences being due-to the
fact that the latter were prepared for the conduct of the
Army of the 'United States in a civil war in which the
enemy was regarded- as traitors, and rebels and not (as
•in anhitetnational war) where each side is- respected as
doinigits duty ci'tgown country. General.Ord,.rs-No. -101-

HERRERA v. UNITED STATES.

222 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

were issued specifically to govern the situation resulting
from the capitulation of Santiago. As.to effect of such orders see United States v. Eliason, 16 Pet. 291, 302.
As to sanctity of private property during war, as recognized by the United States, see treaty with Prussia of
1788, Art. XXIII, and treaty of 1848 with Mexico, in
which both countries "solemnly pledged themselves to
each other and the world " to observe the same rules "upon
the entrance of the armies of either nation into the territories of the other."
Two centuries earlier the sanctity of private property
was stated in the strongest terms by Grotiu (De Jure
Belli et Pacis, Lib: III, Ch. XX, § VII, par. 1).
In the code of Moses, barbarous as it was, a very much
more humane treatment was prescribed for enemies who
surrendered. (Deut. XX: 10-i4.)
The claimants were not Spanish subjects in the sense
of the treaty, and their claims were not released by Spain
to the United States; Hijo v. United States, 194 U. S. 315;
does not apply to this case.
There was no *ay provided in the treaty by which persons born in the island-the people of. Cuba-like -the
claimants in No, 90, could' preserve Spanish nationality
and allegiance which they threw off when they declared
their independence in 1895 and of which they were relieved
(so far as the United States was concerned) by the declaration of their independence in and by the Joint Resolution of Congress of April 20, 1898. The claimants in
No. 89 could have retained their Spanish' nationality and
allegiance under Art. X, but they refused to do so because
they had cast in their lot with the people of Cub;,thus becoming under the constitution of Cuba citizens of that
republic by naturalization.
When an act is done at one time and it operates upon
the thing as if done at another time7, it is said to do so by
relation. 2 Bouvier's Dic., Rawle's Revision, 864; .24
VOL. ccxxii-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Counsel for the United States.

222 U. S.

Am. & Eng. Ency. Law, 2d ed. 275. The doctrine of relation as to the commencement of the existence and responsibility of states, also as to their title to their territory, and the citizenship of their people, applies to
Cuba.
As the revolution succeeded, and the republic became
recognized, its acts from the commencement of its existence are upheld as those of an independent nation. Williams v. Bruffy, 96 U. S. 176. See'also Harcourt v. Gaillard, 12 Wheat. 524, 527; M'Ilvaine v. Coxe's Lessee, 4
Cranch, 209, 212; Underhill v. Hernandez, 168 U. S. 250,
253; citing United States v. Rice, 4 Wheat. 246; Fleming v.
Page, 9 How. 603; Thorington v. Smith, 8 Wall. 1; Ford
v. Surget, 97 U. S. 594; Dow v. Johnson, 100 U. S. 158;
United States v. Trumball, 48 Fed. Rep. 94. See also Inglis
v. Sailors Snug Harbor, 3 Pet. 99.
Children born in Santiago after the capitulation, while
the United Sfates was holding the capitulated territory
"in trust for the people of Cuba" were not Spaniards by
birth.
For application of the doctrine of relation in international arbitrations, see Heny's Case ii Ralston's Rep. 17;
The Dix Case, Ralston's Rep. 8; the Puerto Cabello Railway Company Case, Ralston's Rep. 458; the Bovallins and
Hedlund Cases, Ralston's Rep. 952. For other cases see
I Moore's Int. Arb'ns, No. 4330.
The releases in both cases were obtained under duress.
Swift Co. v. United States, 111 U. S. 28; Maxwell v. G(riswold, 10 How. 242, 256; Adams v. United States, 20 Ct. Cl.
115; Bostwick v. United States, 94 U. S. 53; Rush v. United
States, 35 C1. Cl. 239; Robertson v. Frank Bros. Co., 132
U. S. 17.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Thompson, with whom
Mr. Franklin W. Collins was on the brief, for the United
States.

HERRERA v. UNITED STATES.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
Petition in the Court of Claims for the recovery of
$88,200 for the value of the use and profits of which claimants were deprived, as it is alleged, by the taking and
detention of a certain steamship by the United States during the war with Spain, and for the loss of certain property
belonging to and a part of such steamship alleged to be
"fairly worth" the sum of $5,000, amounting in all to the
sum of $93,200.
Claimants base their right to recover upon an implied
contract arising from the facts which we shall presently
detail. Opposing this view, the Government contends
that the property was enemy property seized for military
uses and that, besides, the record does not show a "convention between the parties" or circumstances from which
a :contract could be implied, and that therefore the case i'
one sounding in tort and claimants have no right of recovery.
The court found as a conclusion of law from the facts,
"on the authority of the case of Hijo v. United States, 194
U. S. 315, that the claim herein is one arising from the
capture and use of a vessel as an act of war, and the court
is therefore without jurisdiction, and the petition is dismissed."
The claimants, at the time the steamship was taken,
composed a commercial partnership, doing business under
the firm name of Herrera Nephews. They were born
in Spain, and, under. the Spanish r4gime in Cuba, were
Spanish subjects residing in Havana. After the treaty
they did not, in accordance with its terms, preserve their
allegiance to Spain.
On the sixteenth day of July, 1898, the Spanish forces
then occupying the territory constituting the division of
Santiago, including the city and port of that name, capitu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.*

222 U. S.

lated to the United States in accordance with the terms of
a military convention which provided that all hostilities
between the American and the Spanish forces in that
district should cease and that the Spanish forces should be
returned, at the expense 'of the United States, to Spain.
Actual hostilities ceased with the surrender of Santiago.
The United States military authorities seized and captured the steamer San Juan on the 'seventeenth of July,
1898, she having been held in the harbor by its blockade by
the United States naval authorities. Prior to zhat date she
had been used to transport Spanish troops, munitions of
war and supplies for the Spanish troops from place to
place. After her capture she was .used for like service for
American troops and indigent Cubans until November,
1898, a period of .1i5 days. The reasonable value of her
use was $150 per day, amounting to the sum of $17,250, no
part of which has been paid to claimants.
After the surrender of Santiago and the seizure of the
steamship, the Secretary of War, on July 18, 1898, in pursuance of the proclamation of the President of July 13,
1898, issued General Order No. 101, which, among other
things, provided that "Private property, whether belonging to individuals or corporations, is to be respected, and
can be confiscated only for cause. Means of transportatinn, such as telegraph lines and cables, railways and
boats, may, although they belong to private individuals or
corporations, be seized by the military occupant, but,
unless destroyed under military necessity, are not to be
retained.
"Private property taken tor tne use of the Army is to be
paid for, when possible, in cash, at a fair valuation, and
when payment in cash is not possible receipts are to be
given."
This order was promulgated in Cuba, July 20, 1898.
On November 8, 1898, the Quartermaster-General of
the Army telegraphed to R. A. C. Smith, the representa-

HERRERA v. UNITED STATES.
222 U. S.

565

Opinion of the Court.

tive and attorney-in-fact of claimants, that it was proposed
to return the "captured steamer" to owners, and asked
him to wire their names. Smith answered on the twelfth
"that claimants agreed to accept the :vessel, reserving
.their right to make claim." On the fifteenth the War Department notified Smith that the Government was ready
to deliver the vessel to her owners upon condition that a
receipt be given showing-that she was accepted with full
knowledge and understanding that the Secretary of War
did n'ot consider that any allowance was due the owners on
account of her use, she being captured property, or for
any damage sustained by her while she was in the possession of the United States, and that any claim subsequently
made should be a matter for future consideration by the
War Department. The terms were rejected and she remained in the possession of the United States.
On April 25, 1899, the Quartermaster at Santiago, on
instructions from the War Department, wrote claimants'
agent that if they did not receive the steamer "in accordance with the conditions hereinafter expressed," she would
be delivered to the Department of the Quartermaster
of the Army and retained as property of the United
States.
On the seventeenth claimants accepted her and gave
the following receipt:
"Received this 17th day of llay, 1899, at Santiago,
Cuba, from Maj. John' T. Knight, quartermaster, U. S.
Army, chief quartermaster Department of Santiago, the
steamship San Juan, which vessel is accepted with the full
knowledge and understanding that the Secretary of War
does not consider that any allowance is due the owners on
account of the use of the vessel, she being captured property, or for any damages sustained while the vessel has
been in possession of the United States Government, the
return of the vessel being a generous act on the part of
the United States Government, and that any claim subse-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
.Opinion of the Court.

222.U. S.

quently made for such use and damages shall be a matter
for future consideration of the War Department.
"And we name and authorize our agents in Santiago
de Cuba-Messrs. Gallego, Mesa & Co., of said cityto receive and take possession of said steamship San
Juan.,"
They also executed a paper which recited that it was
given in consideration of the prompt return of the vessel
to claimants, and that released the Government and its
officers and ageots "from all manner of actions, damages,
claims and demands whatsoever" on account of her seizure, detention and use.
From the time that the Quartermaster-General of the
Army proposed to return the vessel until May 17, 1899, a
period of 190 days, the vessel, though retained by the
United States, was not used. During sdd period the
United States kept a watchman on board, who was paid
$45 per month. The compensation claimants are entitled
to, if any, for such period, taking into account that the
vessel was not used, would be $125 per day, or $23,750.
Upon the return of the vessel to claimants, tools and
.implements of the value of $232.50 were missing, but it is
not sbown by whom they were taken. Ioo other property
is shown to have been taken possession of by the United
States. The steamer, when returned, appeared to have
been in as good condition as when taken into possession,
ordinary wear and tear except-.d.
As we have seen, the Court of Claims rested its decision
on the case of Hijo v. United States, 194 U. S. 315, and that
case also is the main reliance of the Government's argument. Claimants, however, contend that the Hijo Case
is distinguishable from that at bar.
The action there was brought to recover the value of the
use of a vessel belonging to Spanish subjects and taken by
the United States in the port of Ponce, Porto Rico, when
that city was captured by'the United States army and

HERRERA v. UNITED STATES.

222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

navy on July 28, 1898. The vessel was used by the quartermaster until some time in April, 1899, when she was
ordered to be returned to the owner, if all claims for damages for use or detention should be waived. The condition
was refused, and the vessel was subsequently abandoned
and was wrecked in a hurricane. We quote the following from the statement of facts in the opinion: "The vessel was never in naval custody nor condemned as prize.When seized it was a Spanish vessel, carried a 8panish
flag, and its owner, captain and crew were all Spanish
subjects. It did not come within any of the declared exemptions from seizure set forth in the proclamation of the
President of April 26, 1898. 30 Stat. 1770. A claim filed
in the War Department in February, 1900, for its use, was
rejected."
The Court of Claims dismissed the petition on the
ground that the vessel was properly seized as enemy property and its use was by the war power for war purposes.
This court sustained the judgment and the principles
upon which it was based.
A question of jurisdiction became prominent in the case.
The action was brought in the District Court of Porto
Rico, and the court could only have had jurisdiction under
the Tucker Act, so called, which provides for the bringing of suits against the United States. March 3, 1887, 24
Stat 505, c. 359. In other words, as expressed in the act,
omitting grounds of action with which the case was not
concerned, that court was given jurisdiction of suits "upon
any contract, express or implied, with the Government df
the United States, or for damages, liquidated or unliquidated, in cases not sounding in tort." Considering whether
the action was of that nature, this court said that there
was no element of contract in the case, for nothing was
done or said by the officers of the United States from which
could be implied an agreement or obligation to pay for the

use of the vessel; and declared, further, that according to

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

established principles .of law, its owners, being Spanish
subjects, were to be deemed enemies, although not directly colnected with military operations, and that therefore the vessel was to be deemed enemy's property. "It
was seized," it was said, "as property of that kind, for
purposes of war, and not for any purposes of gain." In
further emphasis of this conclusion, it was added: "The
seizure, which occurred while the war was flagrant, was an
act of war occurring within the limits of military operations. 'The. action, in its essence, is for the recovery of
damages, but as the case is one sounding in tort, no suit for
.
against the United
damages can be maintained
States."
It was also decided that the claim of the plaintiff in the
action was embraced in the stipulation in the treaty of
peace between Spain and the United States, by which
they "mutually relinquish all claims for indemnity, national and individual, of every kind, of either Government,
or of its citizens or subjects, against the other Government, that may have arisen since the beginning of the
late insurrection in Cuba and prior to -the exchange of
ratifications of the present treaty, including all claims for
That effect,
indemnity for the cost of the war....."
it was declared, must be given to the treaty, even though
the Tucker Act, could have been construed to authorize
the suit, upon the ground that each being equally the
supreme law of the land, the last in date must prevail in
the courts.
Before comparing that case with the case at bar we may
take a glance at Juragua Iron Co. v. United States, 212
U. S. 297, 306, where it was decided that, Cuba being
"enemy's country," even "Nn American corporation doing
business in Cuba was during the war with Spain, to be
deemed an enemy to the United States with respect of
its Droperty found and then used in that country, and such
property could be regarded as enemy's property, liable to

HERRERA'v. UNITED STATES.
222 U. S.

569

Opinion of the Court.

be seized and confiscated by the United States in the
progress .ofthe war then being prosecited."
The action in that case was in. the. Court of Claims to
recover from the United States the alleged value of certain
poperty destroyed in Cuba during the war with Spain, by
order of the officer commanding the -United States troops
operating in the locality of the property, the purpose of
the order being "to destroy all places of occupation oi
habitation which might contain fever germs." . The buildings destroyed were 66 in number and were used in connection with mining operations and the manufacture of
iron and steel products.
The 4estruction of the buildings was considered as an act
of war and sustained as such. It was also decided, that,
even on the supposition that such destruction was wrongful and unnecessary a tort was committed, and though
committed in the interest of the United States, there was
no element of contract and the action was not one of which
the. Court of Claims could "take cognizance, whateverother redress was open to the plaintiff."
We have, then, these propositions established: -Cuba
was enemy's country, and all persons residing there pending the war, whether Spanish subjects of Americans, were
to be deemed enemies of the United States, their ptoperty
enemy's property and subject to seizure, confiscation and.
destruction. It would seem necessarily to follow that the
claimants in this case were enemies of the United States,
and their property subject to the necessities of war. And
this is but the application of the rule which declares that
war makes of the citizens or subjects of one belligerent
enemies of the government and of the citizens or subjects
of the other. The Venice, 2 Wall. 258, 274; White v..
Burnley, 20 How. 235,. 249.
These consequences, it is insisted, are averted in the.
case at bar by two important circumstances: that San"
tiago, unlike Porto Rico, was not captured but capitulated,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

and by the explicit direction of the proclamation of the
President of. July 13, 1898, promulgated in Cuba on the
,twentieth. The argument is that those circumstances
modified the general rule, and that the property of claimant ceased to be "hostile" and passed "under the sovereignty" of*the United States, and as inviolable as other
property under the jurisdiction of the United States, and, if
taken for public use, an obligation to make compensation
would be implied. The Venice, 2 Wall. 258, and other cases
are adduced to support the contention. It was decided in
The Venice that after the surrender of New Orleans its military occupation by the Federal forces "drew after it the full
measure of pr.otection to persons and property consistent
with a necessary subjection to military government." The
limitation is important. The case is not as broad as the
contention which it is cited to support. It was concerned
with the restoration of the authority of the United States
over a part of the United States which had 1 een in a state
of insurrection, and in such case, that is, in districts occupied by national troops, it was "the policy of the Government not to regard such districts as in actual insurrectiqn, or their inhabitants as subject in most respects to
treatment as enemies." Such occupation, it was said, did
not "restore peace, or, in all respects, former relations;"
but it replaced "rebel by national authority," and recognized, "to some extent, the conditions and the responsibility of national citizenship." In emphasis of the same
view, it was said: "As far as possible the people of such
parts of the insurgent States as came under national occupation and control were treated as 'if their relations to
the National Government had never been interrupted."
The Ouachita Cotton, 6 Wall. 521, does not change the
ruling in The Venice from an expression of the special
policy of the Government indicated by its legislation to a
declaration of law necessarily following from the military
occdpation of even enemy country. It was an obvious

HERRERA v. UNITED STATES.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

application of the principles of The Venice to hold that,
with tho restoration of the national authority, "from that
time its citizens were clothed with the same rights of property, and were subject to the same inhibitions and disabilities as to commercial intercourse with the territory
declared to be in insurrection, as the inhabitants of the
loyal States," and that "such is the result of the application of well settled principles of public law." To the same
effect is Desmare v. United States, 93 U. S. 605, 611. Nor
was there any intention to enlarge the ruling in The Venice
in United States v. Padelford, 9 Wall. 531.
The case of The Grapeshot, 9 Wall. 129, 132, is also cited
by claimants, and some of its language demands notice.
The question involved was the legality of a provisional
court for the State of Louisiana established by the President afier New Orleans and parts of the'State had been
occupied by the national troops. Expressing the purpose
of the National Government the court said that it was
"neither conquest nor subjugation, but the overthrow of
the insurgent organization, the suppression of insurrection, and the reestablishment of legitimate authority." It
was further said that it was the duty of the Government,
"wherever the insurgent power was 'overthrown, and the
territory which had been dominated by it was occupied by
the National forces, to provide as far as possible, so long
as the war continued, for the security of persons and property, and for the administration of justice." To this was
added the following: "The duty of the National Government, in this respect, was no other than that which devolves upon the government of a regular belligerent occupying, during war, the territory of another belligerent.
It was a military duty, to be performed by the President
as commander-in-chief, and intrusted as such with the
direction of the military force by which the occupation
was held.
But it was not intended to expres§ a limitation upon

OCTOBER TERM, .1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

the undoubted belligerent right to use and confiscate all
property of an enemy and to dispose of it at will. Miller
v. United States, 11 Wall. 268, 305. The Venice, and cases
like it, expressed and enforced limitations to a certain
extent upon such right growing out of the policy of the
Government. It may be, as said by Kent (1 Kent, 92),
that "The general usage now is, not to touch private
property upon land, without making compensation, unless
in special cases, dictated by the necessary operations of
war, or when captured in places carhied by storm, and
which repelled all the overtures for capitulation." It may
also be, as further said by the learned commentator, that
"if the conqueror goes beyond these limits wantonly, or
when it is not clearly indispensable to the just purposes
of war, and seizes private property of pacific persons for
the sake of gain,
he violates the modern usages
of war." Id. 92 and 93.
If the record presented such a case the question could
he raised whether it presented one for judicial cognizance,
even if a court could share the indignation which the
learned commentator says afl mankind would feel. It is
certain that the court's power cannot be enlarged by its
emotions. Besides, we must regard the seizure of the San
Juan as an exertion of the war power, and by this we do
not mean as mere "booty of war," and the comments
made in Planters'Bank v. Union Bank, 16 Wall. 483, 495,
in regard to an attempt by the commander at New Orleans, fifteen months after the occupation of the city by
the National Government, to confiscate the indebtedness
of one of the banks to the other, do not apply. We only
mean that the seizure was for the immediate use, of the
army, a right recognized in that case, for we do not accept
the view contended for by claimants that with the surrender of Santiago and the cessation of active operations in
the Santiago district, enemy property'lost such character
and was not subject to such right of capture. The war

HERRERA v. UNITED STATES.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was flagrant elsewhere, and in such case Planters' Bank v.
Union Bank is authority for the right, not against it. It
was there decided that the military commander at New
Orleans "had power to do all that the laws of war permitted, except so far as he was restrained by the pledged
faith of the Government, or the effect of congressional action." Such pledge and effect existed, it was held, citing
the case of The Venice. It may be said the indebtedness
was not absolutely exempt from confiscation as enemy's
*property, but only that it was not, under the particular circumstances, "subject to military seizure as booty of war."
And "booty of war" was distinguished from "a seizure
*for immediate use of the army." This is a distinction important to observe, and is recognized explicitly or implicitly in all of the cases and references contained in the able
argumbnt of counsel. It accommodates, when its full
range is properly understood, the necessities of the conqueror and the personal and property rights, if they may
be called such, of the conquered. And there is nothing in
the President's proclamation of July 13, 1898, which militates against it. But suppose we should grant the contrary.
Suppose we should grant to the San, Juan the broadest
immunity from seilure or detention. We are then brought
to consider the quality of the act of the officers of the army
who seized and used her. It would seem easy to describe.
If it was done in violation of the President's proclamation;
if it was done in vi6lation of the laws of war and the conditions arising from the capitulation of Santiago, it was
done in wrong, and claimants encounter the prohibitions
of the Tucker Act against the jurisdiction of the Court of
Claims. They are in the situation. of the claimant in Hijo
v. United States and Juragua Iron Co. v. United States.
A tort was committed against them, 'and though committed in the interest of the United States- there is no
element of contract and the action i one of which the
Court of Claims could not take jurisdiction, whatever

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

222 U. S.

other redress. is open to claimants. Indeed, we might
have rested this branch of the"case on those cases, both
for the requirements of the Tucker Act and the rights
and powers of belligerents, conqueror or conquered. We
have restated the propositions declared only in deference
to the earnestness and force of the argument of claimants'
counsel. And we rest the case on those propositions and
do not enter into a consideration of the citizenship of claimants, whether born in Spain and Spanish subjects when
their vessel was seized, or Cuban by relation to the time
either of the declaration of Cuban independence or of its
recognition by Congress, as contended. If Spanish subjects, under the authority of Hijo v. United States, their
right of indemnity for the seizure and use of their vessel
was taken away by the treaty between Spain and the
United States.

Judgment affirmed.

DIAZ v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 90. Argued December 11, 12, 1911.-Decided January 15, 1912.
Herrera v. United States, ante, p. 558, followed as to the nature and
effect of, and liability of the United States for, seizures and detention of vessels in Santiago harbor after the capitulation in 1898.
The President's proclamation of July 13, 1898, was not intended to
supersede the laws of war, to interfere with the seizure, confiscation, or destruction of property necessary for the operation of war,
or to attach to the necessary appropriation of such property by
military officers the obligations and remedies of contracts.
43 Ct. Cl. 444, affirmed.
THE

facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the Court

