OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

222 U. S.

other redress. is open to claimants. Indeed, we might
have rested this branch of the"case on those cases, both
for the requirements of the Tucker Act and the rights
and powers of belligerents, conqueror or conquered. We
have restated the propositions declared only in deference
to the earnestness and force of the argument of claimants'
counsel. And we rest the case on those propositions and
do not enter into a consideration of the citizenship of claimants, whether born in Spain and Spanish subjects when
their vessel was seized, or Cuban by relation to the time
either of the declaration of Cuban independence or of its
recognition by Congress, as contended. If Spanish subjects, under the authority of Hijo v. United States, their
right of indemnity for the seizure and use of their vessel
was taken away by the treaty between Spain and the
United States.

Judgment affirmed.

DIAZ v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 90. Argued December 11, 12, 1911.-Decided January 15, 1912.
Herrera v. United States, ante, p. 558, followed as to the nature and
effect of, and liability of the United States for, seizures and detention of vessels in Santiago harbor after the capitulation in 1898.
The President's proclamation of July 13, 1898, was not intended to
supersede the laws of war, to interfere with the seizure, confiscation, or destruction of property necessary for the operation of war,
or to attach to the necessary appropriation of such property by
military officers the obligations and remedies of contracts.
43 Ct. Cl. 444, affirmed.
THE

facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the Court

DIAZ v. UNITED STATES.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of Claims and the liability of the United States for the
use of enemy vessels seized during the war with Spain,
are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Howard Thayer Kingsbury and Mr. Crammond
Kennedy, with whom Mr., Frank D. Pavey Was on the
brief, for appellants.
/
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Thompson, with whom
Mr.Franklin W. Collins was on the brief, for the United
States.
MR.JuSTiCE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.

This case was argued and submitted with No. 89,
Herrerav.. United States, just decided, ante, p. 558. As in
that case the findings of fact recite the pendency of the
war between the United States and Spain, the capitulation
of Santiago and the cessation of hostilities in that district
between the contending forces, the seizure and capture by
the military authorities of the United States of the steamer
Thomas Brooks, among other vessels and lighters, on the
seventeenth, day of July, 1898, she then being owned by
claimants, and her use for the transportation of troops and
munitions of war until September 6th of the same year, a
period of fifty-seven days, the United States paying the
cost of operating the steamer. Prior to her seizure she had
been used to transport Spanish troops and munitions of
war. The full and reasonable value of her use was $125
per day, amounting to the sum of $6,375, no part of which
has been paid.
The other vessels seized and captured were small vessels
and lighters, which were used for a time and later returned
on the.advice or opinion of the Judge-Advocate General of
the Army. Their use was paid for by the Government on

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court..

222 U. S.

some amicable terms. Also, after September 6, 1898, the
claimants were, by some amicable agreement between
them and the Quartermaster in charge at Santiago, permitted to use and operate the Thomas Brooks at their
own expense, they agreeing to transport in her troops and
munitions of war and other supplies at one-half the transportation rates. This was done, and the claimants were
paid for the service.
On the eighteenth of January, 1899, after the vessel had
been turned over to claimants, they executed a receipt and
released all claims in the form set out in Herrera et al. v.
United States.
It was also found by the court, as follows, being No. 5 of
the findings:
"At the same time, to wit, July 17, 1898, the military
forces of the United States took possession of two wharves,
the Muelle Lus and the San Jose, with their warehouses
and sheds, belonging to claimants, and used the same for
the purpose of loading, unloading and storing Government
supplies, and in facilitating the movements of troops from
July 17, 1898, to March 1, 1899, a period of seven and
one-half months, for which use no rental was paid, though
the claimants presented bills therefor monthlf; and after
the Government had surrendered the possession of said
wharves the chief quartermaster, Department of Santiago,
offered the claimants $4,000 in full payment for the use
thereof during said period, which was refused; and later
payment was denied on the ground that the claim was for
unliquidated damages (see opinion Judge Advocate General, Dec. 23, 1901, page 83, Senate Doc. 318, 57th Congress, 1st Sess.). During" said period said wharves were
not used exclusively by the United States, but commercial
steamers were permitted to land there and they were
used by the merchants of the city of Santiago when such
use did not interfere with the handling of Government
stores. It does not appear that claimants received any

DIAZ v. UNITED STATES.

222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

compensation from commercial steamers or merchants of
the city for such use during said period.
"From time to time said *harves and warqhouses were
repaired by the United States, and claimant company was
employed by the United States at $32 per day to dredge
alongside of same for about three months. Said wharves
were returned to. claimants in nearly as good condition as
when the United States took possession of them.
"The reasonable value of the use of said wharves and
warehouses for the period they were used by the United
States forces, together with any damage caused thereto by
reason of said use, was $7,300."
The President's proclamation of July 13, 1898, is found
as in the Herrera-Case.
The Court of Claims dismissed the petition on the authority of Hijo v. United States, 194 U. S. 315, and the
Heriera Case.
Claimants urge nothing in this case, because one of them
is a British subject, except on the principles expressed in
The Venice, and of those principles we have commented-in
the HerreraCase. Nor can much be urged on account of
the settlement made by the officers of the United States
with claimants for the services rendered after the surrender
of the vessel and the settlement made for some smaller
vessels and lighters, or the tender of payment of $4,000 by
the Quartermaster at Santiago for the use of the wharves
as set out in Finding V. Indeed, counsel say that "the
intention to pay must be the officially declared intention
of the Government, evidenced in the cases at bar by the
rules and regulations prescribed by the President and
promulgated by the Secretary of War in General Orders
No. 101, and not the mere temporary mental processes of
this or that subordinate officer who happened to be Quartermaster at the time and on the spot, and ignorant or disregardful of the law of the case as laid down by the President." The necessities of the case re'quire claimants to
VOL. ccxxii-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

222-U. S.

take that position; but we need not repeat what we said
in No. 89 of those orders or of the proclamation. It is not
possible to hold that the proclamation of the President
was intended to supersede the laws of war and attach to
every appropriation by the military officers conducting operations of war the obligations and remedies of contracts.
It could not have been the intention of the President to
prevent the seizure of property when necessary for military
uses, or to prevent i6'confiscation or destruction. For
the reasons for this conclusion we refer to the opinion in
the HerreraCase.
Judgment agirmed.

EX PARTE IN THE MATTER OF LEAF TOBACCO BOARD OF TRADE OF THE -CITY OF
NEW YORK, PETITIONER.
APPLICATION FOR LEAVE TO FILE PETITION.
Original.

Motion for leave to file petition. Submitted December 4,
1911.-Decided December 11, 1911.

One who is not a party to the record and judgment is not entitled to
appeal therefrom.
The action of the lower court in refusing to permit the movers to become parties to the record in this case is not susceptible of being
reviewed by this court on appeal; or indirectly, under the circumstances of this case, by mandamus.
The merely general nature and character of the petitioners' interest in
thi proceeding is not such as to authorize them to assail the action
of the court below. This is the more obvious as the act of the court
which is assailed has been accepted by the parties to the record.

THE petitioner states in its petition that it is a corporation of the State of New York and "is composed of
more than seventy-five business concerns engaged in the
business of selling leaf-tobacco to manufacturers of tobacco products. That the said concerns are vitally in-

