OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

222 U. S.

it proceeds, in the language of the English Chancery, with
all deliberate speed. Assuming, as we do, that the Attorney General is correct in saying that only the Legislature of the defendant State can act, we are of opinion that
the time has not come for granting the present motion.
If the authorities of West Virginia see fit to await the
regular session of the Legislature, that fact is not sufficient
to prove that when the voice of the State is heard it will
proclaim unwillingness to make a rational effort for peace.
Motion overruled without prejudice.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
No. 28.

Argued March 9, 10, 1911-Decided October 30, 1911.

The Safety Appliance Act of March 2, 1893, 27 Stat. 531, c. 196,
as amended March 2, 1903, 32 Stat. 943, c. 976, embraces all locomotives, cars and similar vehicles used on -any railway that is a
highway of interstate commerce, and is not confined ex-clusively to
vehicles engaged in such commerce.
The power of Congress under the commerce clause of the Constitution is plenary and competent to protect persons and property
moving in interstate commerce from all danger, no matter what the
source may be; to that end, Congress may require all vehicles moving
on highways of interstate commerce to be so equipped as to avoid
danger to persons and property moving in interstate commerce.
,ks between opposing views in regard to the construction of a statutc
the court in this case accepts the one in accord with the manifest
purpose of Congress.
It is of common knowledge that interstate and intrastate commerce
are commingled in transportation over highways of interstate commerce, that trains and cars on the same railroad, whether engaged

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
222 U. S.

21

Argument for the United States.

in ohe form of traffic or the other,, are interdependent and that
absence of safety appliance from any part of a train is a menace
not only to that train-but to others.
164 Fed6 Rep. 347, affirmed.
THE facts,

which involve the donstruction and con-

stitutionality of certain sections of the Safety Appliance
Acts, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Alfred P. Thorn, for plaintiff in error, submitted-on
the record.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Fowler, with whom Mr.
Henry E. Colton, Special -Assistantto the Attorney General,
was on the brief, for the United States.
There is'a real and substaintial relationship between
interstate commerce and the equipping with safety appliances of all cars operated on a line of road- engaged in
carrying such commerce. Adair v. United States, 208 U. S.
161, 178.
The fact that the act of March 2, 1893, purports to
have been enacted for the purpose of protecting travel-'
ers and employ6s, cannot affect the constitutionality of
either that or of any subsequent safety appliance..adt.
Johnson v. Southern Pacific R. R. Co., 196 U. S. 1.
The decisions of this court upon analogous questions
clearly show that the required relationship exists between
interstate commerce, and the things required by the act
of March 2,'1903, to be done by those operating railroads
engaged in interstate commerce.
Congress has power even to construct roads to be used
in interstate commerce, and to grant charters authorizing
the construction of highways for that purpose, e. g., the
Cumberland National Road; and see Californiav. Pacific
Railroad Co., 127 U: S. 1; Luxton v. North River Bridge
Co., 153 U. S. 525, 529.
This court has never hesitated to declare the power oi
the United States to remove obstructions of every char-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for the United States.

222 U. S.

acter from every avenue of commerce that may directly
or indirectly interfere with interstate traffic. Willson v.
Blackbird Creek Marsh Co., 2 Pet. 214; Gilman v. Phiadelphia, 3 Wall. 713; Pennsylvaniav. Wheeling Bridge Co.,
13 How. 518; In re Debs, 158 U. S. 565.
Congress has power to provide, by the method adopted,
against conditions which thus interfere with and impede
the flow of interstate commerce.
The United States may even prevent interference with
a stream not navigable, but which is tributary to a navigable stream, in order to preserve the navigability of the
stream to which it is tributary. United States v. Rio
Grande IrrigationCo., 174 U. S. 690, 699, 709.
In order to facilitate and hasten the ttansportation of
interstate commerce, the several States are not permitted
to enact any law or adopt any regulation which will materially interfere with or impede interstate transportation.
Ill. Cent. R. R. Co. v. Illinois,- 163 U. S. 142, 153; Lake
Shore Ry. Co. v. Ohio, 173 U. S.285; Cleveland &c.Ry. Co.
v. Illinois, 177 U. S. 514; Mississippi R. R. Comm. v.
Ill. Cent. R. R., 203 U. S. 335.
Congress may enact laws regulating the qualifications
of those actually engaged in the carrying of interstate
commerce, although such persons may at times in the
pursuit of their avocation, be solely engaged in handling
intrastate commerce. The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 557;
Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465, 479; N. Y., N. H. & H.
R. R. Co. v. New York, 165 U. S. 628.
State statutes relating to commerce have been held to
be valid where they do not adversely affect but aid interstate commerce or where they have no relationship
thereto; but when such statutes have substantially affected interstate or fo'reign commerce adversely they have
been universally held to be invalid. County of Mobile v.
Kimball, 102 U. S.691, 698; State Freight Tax, 15 Wall.
232; Pullman Co. v. Adams, 189 U. S.420; Ratterman v.

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v.- UNITED STATES.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

West Un. Tel. Co., 127 U. S. 411; West. Un. Tel. Co. v.
Kansas, 216 U. S. 1.
For other cases bearing materially upon the lower of
Congress to pass laws remotely affecting interstate commerce, see United States v. Coombs; 12 Pet. 71, 77; L. &
N. R. R. Co. v. Eubank, 184 U. S. 27; Employers' Liability
Cases, 207 U. S. 463, 495, 529; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat.
1, 194; Int. Comm. Com. v. Ilt.-Cent..R. R. Co., 215 U. S.
452, 474.
This act has been sustained by the lower Federal courts.
Wabash R. Co. v. United States, 168 Fed. Rep. 1; United
States v. Int. & Gt. Nor. R. R. Co;, 174 Fed. Rep. 638. If necessary to sustain the constitutionality of the act
of March 2, 1903, it might with reason be construed to
apply solely to trains, locomotive, tenders, cars, and other
vehicles actually engaged in carrying interstate commerce,
and to all other locomotives, tenders, cars, and similar
vehicles used in connection therewith. United States v.
Coombs. 12 Pet. 71, 76.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
This was a civil action to recover penalties for the violation in specified instances of the Safety Appliance Acts
of Congress. 27 Stat. 531', c. 196; 32 Stat. 943, c. 976. The
Government prevailed in the District Court and the
defendant sued out this direct writ of error.
Briefly stated, the case is this: The defendant, w~ile
operating a railroad which was "a part of-a through hihway" over which traffic was continually being moved from
one Sta-e to another, hauled over a part of its raifroad,
during the month of February, 1907, five cars, the couplers
upon which were defective and inoperative. Two of the
cars were used at the time in moving interstate traffic
and the other three in moving intrastate traffic; but it

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the-Court.

222 U. S

does not appear that the use of the three was in connection
with any car or cars used in interstate commerce. The
defendant particularly objected to the assessment of any
penalty for the hauling of the three cars, and insisted,
first, that such a hauling in intrastate commerce, although
upon a railroad over which tra-ffic was continually being
moved from one State to another, was not within the prohibition of the Safety Appliance Acts of Congress, and*second, that, if it was, those acts should be pronounced,
invalid as being in excess of the power of Congress undei
the commerce clause of the Constitution. But the objec-'
tion was overruled, 164 Fed. Rep. 347, and error is assigned
upon that ruling.
The original act of March 2, 1893, 27 Stat. 531, c. 196;
'imposed upon every common carrier "engaged in interstate commerce by railroad" the duty of equipping all
trains, locomotives and cars, used-.on its line of railroad
in moving interstate traffic, with designated appliances
calculated to promote the safety of that traffic and of the
employ~s engaged in its movement; and the second section of that act made it unlawful for "any such common
carrier" to haul or permit to be hauled or used -on its line
of railroad any car, "used in moving interstate traffic,"
not equipped with automatic couplers capable of being
coupled and uncoupled without the necessity of a man
going between the ends of the cars. The act of March 2,
1903, 32 Stat. 943, c.' 976, amended the earlier one and
enlarged its scope by declaring, inter alia, that its provisions and requirements should "apply to all trains, locomotives, tenders, cars, and similar vehicles used on any
railroadengaged in interstate commerce, and in the Territories. and the District of Columbia, and to all other locomotives, tenders, cars, and similar vehicles used in connection therewith." Both acts contained, some minor
exceptions, but they have no bearing here.
The real controversy is over the atrue significance of

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the words "on any railroad engaged" in the first clause of
the amendatory provision. But for them the true test
of the application of that clause to a locomotive, car or
sinmilar vehicle would be, as it was under the original act,
the use of the vehicle in moving interstate traffic. On
the other hand, when they are given their natural signification, as presumptively they should be, the scope of
the clause is such that the true test of its application is
the use of the vehicle on a railroad which is a highway of
interstate commerce, and not its use in moving interstate
traffic. And so certain is this that we think there would'
be no contention to the contrary were it n'bt for the presence in the amendatory provision of the third clause "and
to all other locomotives, tenders, cars, and similar 4ehicles
used in connection therewith." In this there is a suggestion that what precedes does not cover the entire field, but
at most it is only a suggestion and gives no warrant for
disregarding the plain words "on any railroad engaged"
in the first clause. True, if they were rejected, the two
clauses, in the instance of a train composed of many cars,
some moving interstate traffic-and others moving intrastate traffic, would by their concurrent operation bring the
entire train within the statute. -But it is not necessary
to reject them to accomplish this result, for the first clause,
with those words in it, does even more, that is to say, it
embraces every train on a railroad which is a highway of
interstate commerce without regard to the class of traffic
which the cars are moving. The two clauses are in no
wise antagonistic, but, at most only redundant, and we
perceive no reason for believing that Congress intended
that less than full 'effect should be given to the more
comprehensive one, but, on the contiary, good reason for
believing otherwise. As between the two opposing views,
one rejecting the words "on any railroad engaged" in
the first clause and the other treating the thiid clause as
redundant, the latter is to be preferred, first, because it is

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

in accord with the manifest purpose, shown throughout
the amendatory act, to enlarge the scope of the earlier
one and to make it more effective, and, second, because
the words which it would be necessary to reject to give
effect to the other view were not originally in the amendatory act, but were insetted in it by way of amendment
while it was in process of adoption (Cong. Rec., 57th
Cong., 1st Sess., vol. 35, pt. 7, p. 7300; Id., 2d sess.,.vol. 36,
pt. 3, p. 2268), thus making it certain tlhat without them
,'the act would not express the will of Congress.For these reasons it must be held that the original act
as enlarged by the amendatory one is intended to embrace
all locomotives, cars and similar vehicles used on any
railroad which is a highway of interstate commerce.
We come then to the question whether these acts are
within the power of-Congress under the commerce clause
of the Constitution, considering that they are not confined' to vehicles used in moving interstate traffic, but
embrace vehicles used in moving intrastate traffic. The
answer to this question depends upon another, which is,
Is there a real or substantial relation or connection between what is required by these acts in respect of vehicles
used in moving intrastate traffic and the object which the
acts obviously are designed to attain, namely, the safety
of interstate commerce and of those who are employed in
its movement? Or, stating it in another way. Is there
such a close or direct relation or- connection between the
two classes of traffic, when moving over the same railroad,
as to make it certain that the safety of the interstate traffic
and of those who are employed in its movement will be
promoted in a real or substantia sense by applying the
requirements of these acts to vehicles used in moving the
traffic which is intrastate as well as to those used in moving
that which is interstate? If the answer to this question,
as doubly stated, be in the affirmative, then the principal
question must be answered in the same way. And this is

SOUTHERN RY. CO.. v. UNITED STATES.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

so, not because Congress possesses any power to regulate
intrastate commerce as such, but because its power to
regulate interstate commerce is plenary and competently
may be exerted to secure the safety of the persons and
property transported therein and of those who are employed in such transportation, no matter wpat may be
the source of the dangers which threaten it. That is to
say, it is no objection to such an exertion of this power
that the dangers intended to be avoided arise, in whole
or in part, out of matters connected with intrastate commerep..
Speaking only of railroads which are highways of both
interstate and intrastate commerce, these things are of
common knowledge: Both classes of traffic are at times
carried in the same car and when this is not the case the
cars in which they are carried are frequently commingled
in the same train and in the switching and other movements at terminals. Cars are seldom set apart for exclusive use in moving either class of traffic, but generally are
used interchangeably in movcing both; and the situation
is much the same with trainmen, switchmen and like
employ~s, for they usually, if not necessarily, have to do
with both classes of traffic. Besides, the several trains
on the same railroad are not independent in point of movement and safety, but are interdependent, for whatever
brings delay or disaster to one, or results in disabling one
of its operatives, is caleulated td impede the progress and
imperil the safety of other trains. And so the absence of
appropriate safety appliances from any part of any train
is a menace not only to that train but to others.
These practical considerations make it plain, as we
think, that the questions before stated must be answered
in the affirmative.
Affirmed.

