OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

222 U. S.

v. Shoup, 1811U. S. 562; Erskine v. Hohnbach, 14 Wall.
613; Haffin v. Mason, 15 Wall. 671; Bragg v. Thomson, 19
So. Car. 572; Goodgion v. Gilreath, 32 So. Car. 388; Clarke

v. May, 2 Gray (Mass.), 410; People v. Rix, 6 Michigan,
144; Henline v. Reese, 54 Oh. St. 599; Savacool v. Bough-

ton, 5 Wend. (N. Y.) 170.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is accordingly reversed and that of the Circuit Court is affirmed.

Reversed.

TEFFT, WELLER & CO. v. MUNSURI.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF -THE UNITED STATES
FOR PORTO RICO.
No. 22.

Argued October 30, 31, 1911.-Decided December 4, 1911.

There is no appeal to this court from an order disallowing a claim made
by the District Court of the United States for Porto Rico sitting as
the bankruptcy court.
The express provisions in § 25 of the Bankruptcy Act for the exercise
of appellate jurisdiction by implication exclude the right to exercise
jurisdiction over a subject not delegated by that or some other statute.
An order of the bankruptcy court disallowing a claim is a step in the
proceeding, and not a controversy arising in the proceeding within
the meaning of § 24a. Coder v. Arts, 213 U.-S. 234; Hewit v. Berlin
Machine Works, 194 U. S. 296.
The fact that no method of review is prescribed by the statute in certain cases does not justify this court in disregarding the statute and
assuming jurisdiction where none exists.
That this court has assumed jurisdiction in a case in which its jurisdiction passed unchallenged is not controlling in a subsequent case when
the jurisdiction is challenged. Armstrong v. Fernandez, 208 U. S.
,324, qualified and limited.
The provisions for review of judgment of the District Court of the
United States for Porto Rico in § 35 of the Act of April 12, 1900,
31 Stat. 85, c. 191, do not affect the exclusive modes of review
specifically provided for in the Bankruptcy Act.

TEFFT, WELLER & CO. v. MUNSURI.

222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Tim facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
of -appeals under the Bankruptcy Act, are stated in the
opinion..
Mr. William G. Johnson, with whom Mr. Wm.H.
Hawkins was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. George H. Lamar, with whom Mr. Willis Sweet was
on the brief, for appellees.
MR. CmEF JusTIcE Wffl
the court.

delivered the opinion of

We are of opinion that a motion made to dismiss this
case must prevail, and we therefore state only the facts
which are essential to the consideration of that subject.
In 1907, the commercial firm of "Successores de Jos6
Hernaiz" was adjudicated an involuntary bankrupt.
Tefft, Weller & Co. and those who are here conjointly appellants with that firm presented their claims against the
firm, and they were allowed by the referee. In October,
1907, as the result of proceedings, whose initiation it is
unnecessary to consider, the court held that one Julian
Munsuri was not a limited but a general partner .of the
bankrupt firm and hence was generally liable for its debts.
Munsuri subsequently moved the referee to vacate the'
allowance previously made of the claims which had been
presented by the appellees and to disallow said- claims.
This motion was based on alleged settlements of the
claims which it was asserted had been made with Munsuri
in 1903. The referee denied the motion because he concluded that the asserted settlements, although they had
been in form made, had been procured by the fraud of
Munsuri and therefore were not binding. M unsuri, by
petition for review, sought to reverse the action of the
referee. The court, on February 9, 1909, passing on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 UJ S.

petition for review, reversed the action of the referee. It
was held that the settlements relied upon by Munsuri
were binding. An order was made directing that the
previous allowance of the claims be vacated, and that
the claims be disallowed. Thereupon the court filed its
"findings of fact and conclusions of law," which were recited to have been made "in pursuance of general order
in bankruptcy No. 36, p. 3." The attorney for the creditors then petitioned for the allowance of an appeal to
this court from the judgment and order "whereby the
referee's report denying the motion to disallow the claims
of said creditors is reversed and set aside and the said
claims are disallowed."
At the time the appeal was allowed, (the one which is'
now under considi.ration) assignments of error were filed
assailing the action-of the court in disallowing the claims,'
and the merit of'these assignments has been elaborately
insisted on in the argument at bar. As appellate jurisdiction over courts of bankruptcy is expressly provided for
in the bankrupt law, including the cases or classes of cases
in which this court has authority to review the action of
courts of bankruptcy, we must turn, at least primarily, to
that act in order to test the correctness of the motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction which has been made. Now
the subject of the power to review the orders ofbankruptcy
courts disallowing plaims in bankruptcy proceedings is in
express terms provided for by the bankrupt act in § 25a
as follows:
APPEALS AND WRITS OF ERROR.

"a. That appeals, as in equity cases, may be taken in
bankruptcy proceedings from the courts of bankruptcy to
the circuit court of appeals of the United States, and to
the supreme court of the Territories, in the following cases,
io wit . . . (3) From a judgment allowing or rejrtting a debt or claim of five hundred dollars or over.

TEFFT; WELLER & CO. v. MUNSURI.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Sucn appeal shall be taken within ten days after the judgment appealed from has been rendered, and may be heard
and determined by the appellate court in term or vacation,
as the case may be."
This express provision for the exercise of appellate jurisdiction by the courts therein named over the Q9se here
presented by iecessary implication must be held to exclude
the right of this court to exercise appellate jurisdiction
over a subject not delegated unless some other provision
of the statute compels to a contrary view. But instead
of tending to so do, the context of the statute adds cogency
to and makes irresistible the implication arising from the
provision of § 25 (a) above quoted. This result flows from
the careful provision btherwise made by the statute for
the exercise of appellate jurisdiction by this court over
proceedings in courts of bankruptcy or the orders, judgment and decrees rendered by such courts, none of which
embrace the character of case here presented. Indeed,
when the context of the statute is considered and the distribution of appellate jurisdiction for which it provides
is taken into view, it becomes certain that to extend by
remote implication, based upon conceptions of inconvenience, the reviewing power of this court to a subject like
the one now in question would destroy the symmetry of
the law and would render necessary limitations on the
power of this court to review as to important subjects
concerning which the power would otherwise obtain.
See § 25 (b), paragraphs 1 and 2, defining the appellate
power of this court in certain cases and see also the right
to certify questions to this court and the authority conferred on this court to allow writs of certiorari conferred
in § 25 (d), as well as authority conferred by § 24 (a), to
which we shall hereafter advert. We might well leave the
sufficiency of the motion to dismiss to rest upon these conclusive considerations, but we nevertheless briefly refer
to the contentions pressed in argmnent to the contrary.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court,

222 U.S.

1. The main reliance is upon § 24 (a) which, it is virtually insisted, controls the other provisions of the statute,
and therefore confers jurisdiction in this case. The text of
§ 24 (a) is this!
"Jurisdiction qf Appellate Courts.-(a). The Supreme
Court of the United States, the circuit courts of appeals of
the United States, and the supreme courts of the Territories, in vacation in chambers and during their respective
terms, as now or as theymay be hereafter held, are hereby
invested with appellate jurisdiction of controversies arising in bankruptcy proceedings from the courts of bankruptcy from which they have appellate jurisdiction in
other cases. The Supreme Court of the United States
shall exercise a like jurisdiction from courts of bankruptcy
not within any organized circuit of the United States and
from the supreme court of the District of Columbia."
But the entire argument rests upon a misconception of
the words "controversies in bankruptcy proceedings," as
used in the section; since it disregards the authoritative
construction affixed to those words. Coder v. Arts, 213
U. S. 223, 234; Hewit v. Berlin Machine Works, .194 U. S.
296, 300. Those cases expressly decide that controversies
in bankruptcy proceedings as used in the section do not
include mere steps in proceedings in bankruptcy, but embrace controversies which are not of that inherent character, even although they may arise in the course of proceedings in bankruptcy. The cases referred to moreover,
by necessary implication, determine that the mere allowing or disallowing a claim in bankruptcy is a proceeding
in bankruptcy and not a controversy arising in bankruptcy
within the intendment of the section. Nor is there force
in the contention that because the District Court of Porto
Rico is a court of bankruptcy "not within any organized
circuit of the United States," therefore authority to review
its action in a case like this is conferred on this court by
the concluding sentence of § 24 (a). This is true, because

TEFFT, WELLER & CO. v. MUNSURI.

222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the proposition really rests upon the misconstruction, of
the section already pointed out. That is to say, as the
sentence relied upon only confers upon this court "a like
jurisdiction" to review the acts of the particular courts of
bankruptcy which the sentence designates to that conferred by the immediately preceding provisions of § 24 (a),
that is, to review controversies in bankruptcy, it follows
that the sentence confers no power to review a mere step
in bankruptcy taken by a bankrupt court, even although
such court be one of those referred to in the last sentence
relied upon.
The fact that the result of the previous settled construction of the statute causes it to come to pass that orders in
mere proceedings in bankruptcy rendered by thecourt below when acting as a court in bankruptcy may not be susceptible of being reviewed in any court unless in some case
where such review is specially provided for in the bankrupt
act, affords no ground for disregarding the plain text of
the statute by assuming jurisdiction where none exists.
It is true, as suggested in argument, that in Armstrong v.
Fernandez, 208 U. S. 324, jurisdiction was exerted to review the action of the court below in a case which was not
susceptible of being reviewed under the construction of
the statute which we have here applied. But in that case
.there was no appearance of counsel for the appellee, and
while a general suggestion was made in the argument of
appellant as to the duty. of the court not to exceed its
jurisdiction, no argument concerning the want of jurisdiction was made. The case therefore in substance proceeded
upon a tacit assumption of the existence of jurisdiction,
an assumption which would not be now possible in consequence of the authoritative construction given to § 24 (a)
in Coder v. Arts, supra. Under these circumstances, the
mere implication as to the meaning of the statute resulting
from the jurisdiction which was in that case merely assumed to exist, is not controlling and the Armstrong Case,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Upnmon of the Court.

222 U. S.

therefore, in so far as it conflicts with the construction
which we here give the statute, must be deemed to be qualified and limited.
But it is urged that as the proceeding below was a controversy between the creditors and Munsuri as to whether
he was liable as a general partner, the iatter before us
is susceptible of being treated as a controversy arising in
bankruptcy and as distinct from a step in bankruptcy proceedings. But under the circumstance here disclosed,
the contention is wanting in candor. We say this because
the appeal was specifically taken from the order as one disallowing the claim of the appellants of an alleged .indebtedness to them from the bantkrupt firm, and such was the
character necessarily attributed to the order by the judge
when he entered it and which was affixed to it by the assignments of error filed at the time the appeal was taken.
Moreover, we think the contention is necessarily negatived,
as we have said, by the rifling in Coder v. Arts. Finally, it
is contended that the right to review, wholly irrespective of
the provisions of the bankrupt act, the order here in question arises under § 35 of the Foraker Act, 31 Stat., p. 85,
enacted nearly two years after the passage of the bankrupt
law, viz.:
"Writs of error and appeals from the final decisions of
the supreme court of Porto Rico and district court of the
United States shall be allowed and may be taken to the
Supreme Court of the United States in the same manner
and under the same regulations and in the same cases as
from the supreme courts of the Territories of the United
States; and such writs of error and appeal shall be allowed
in all' cases where the Constitution of the United States,
or a treaty thereof, or an Act of Congress is brought in
question and the right claimed thereunder is denied."
Waiving consideration of the question as to whether the
present appeal was allowed "in the same manner and under the same regulations and in the same cases as from the

MUNSURI v. FRICKER.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

supreme courts of the Territories of the United States,"
we think it evidence tihat as to questions of the character
of those presented by this appeal arising in steps in bankruptcy proceedings proper, the modes of review specifically provided for in the bankruptcy act are exclusive.
Dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

MUNSURI v. FRICKER.
ERROR TO -THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
PORTO RICO.
No. 21.

Argued October 27, 30, 1911.-Decided December 4, 1911.

Tefft, Weller & Co. v. Munsuri, ante, p. 114, followed to effect that
the express provisions for review contained in the Bankruptcy Act
are controlling, and that review by this court under § 24b of an order
disallowing claims is not authorized by the act.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
of appeals under the Bankruptcy Act, are stated in the
opinion.

Mr George H. Lamar, with whom Mr. Willis Sweet was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. William G. Johnson, with whom Mr. Wn. H.
Hawkins was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. CHEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This case relates to the same bankruptcy proceeding,
steps in which formed th6 basis of the appeal in case
No. 22, which has just been dismissed, ante, p. 114.

