OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

222 U. S.

But the considerations that prevailed also are cogent and
so obvious as not to need statement. Moreover, the question is not whether the later statute constituted a contract,
Damon v. Hawaii, 194 U. S. 154, 160; Wisconsin & Michigan Ry. Co. v. Powers, 191 U. S. 379. The courts of the.
Territory have given to the railroad the rights that it
claims, as against the, territorial authorities seeking to
levy the tax. The only question is whether any sufficient
reason appears for not following the construction given
to a local statute by the territorial court, when that construction is inherently reasonable, is at least the first to
strike the mind, and is one that protects private rights.
It is enough to answer that, on the principle followed so
far as may be by this court, there is no such manifest
error as. to warrant us in reversing the decision below.
Fox v. Haarstick, 156 U. S. 674, 679. English v. Arizona,
214 U. S. 359, 361, 363.
Judgment affirmed.

GANDIA v. PETTINGILL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR PORTO RICO.
No. 97. Argued December 14, 1911.-Decided January 9, 1912.
In the absence of express malice or excess, publication of actual fats
is not libellous, and in case of mere excess without express malice
the only'liability is for damages attributable to the excess; and refusal of the trial court to charge to this effect is error.
Quwre: whether attributing to a person conduct that is lawful can be

libellous.
The stricter practice is to note the exceptions before the jury retires;
but if all the exceptions are noted in open court after jury returns
and no wrong is suffered, an exception will not be sustained on that

ground.
4 Porto Rico Fed. Rep. 383, reversed.

GANDIA v. PETTINGILL.
222 U. S.

Argument for Plintiffs in Error.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. FredericD. McKenney, with whom Mr. John Spalding Flannery, Mr. William Hitz and Mr. H. H. Scoville
were on the brief, for plaintiffs in error:
It was error in law on the part of the trial judge to refuse to permit counsel for defendant below to state, while
the jury was yet at the bar, his exceptions to such portions
of the court's instructions to the jury as seemed to him to
be 6bjectionable either in matter of law or in matter of
fact. Phelps v. Mayer, 15 How. 160; United States v. Breitling, 20 How. 252; Dredge v. Forsyth, 2 Black, 563, -564;
Brain v. United States, 168 U. S. 532, 571.
The rule has been frequently reiterated and followed
in the inferior Federal courts. Stone v. United States,
64 Fed. Rep. 667, 677; Little Rock GrahiteCo. v. Dallas Co.,
66 Fed. Rep. 522; Johnson v. Garber, 73 Fed. Rep. 523;
Merchants' Bank v. McGraw, 76 Fed. Rep. 930, 935;
New England Co. v. Cathicolicon Co., 79 Fed. Rep. 294,
295; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Baker, 85 Fed. Rep. 690; Greene
v. United States, 154 Fed. Rep. 401, 412; Accident Assn.
v. Fulton, 79 Fed. Rep. 423; Dalton v. Moore, 141 Fed.
Rep. 311, 314; Mining Co. v. Firment, 170 Fed. Rep. 151;
Mann v. Dempster, 179 Fed. Rep. 837.
In Perez v. Fernandez, 202 U. S. 80, 91, this court spoke
of the difficulty of undertaking to establish a common-law
court and system of jurisprudence in a country hitherto
governed by codes having their origin in the civil law,
where the bar and the people know little of any other
system of jurisprudence.
In the case at bar, however, the Porto Rican legislature by statutory enactment had "established" the civil
action to recover damages for libel and slander and had
carefully defined each of such offenses, had established
certain rules for the guidance of the courts in the administration of such actions, and had declared in precisevphrase

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

222 U. S.

when tho existence of malice might or might not be presumed, and had provided by § VI, that if the plaintiff be
a public employ6, and the libel refers to acts connected
with his office, judgment shall be rendered for the defendant if he prove the truth of his charges.
Under the generally established American law in every
instance of slander, either verbal or written, malice is an
essential ingredient, and whenever substantially averred
and the language, either written or spoken, is proved as
laid, its existence will be inferred by the law until, in the
event of denial, the proofs be overthrown or the language
itself be satisfactorily explained.
Under the Porto Rican law publications or communications*of certain specified classes (see § 4) are expressly
excluded from any presumption or inference of malicean exception to the law of inference being (see § 5)' cases
of injurious communications or writings "made without
justifiable motive and addressed to persons other than to a
*relative within the third degree or other persons specifically identified."
Under the American law words prejudicial in a pecuniary sense, e. g., implying unfitness of a person in office,
or improper conduct on his part in connection therewith,
are said to be actionable per se, whereas, under the Porto
Rican law (see § 6), if the plaintiff be a public employ6
and the alleged libel refers to acts connected with the conduct of his office, judgment shall be rendered for the defendant if he prove the truth of'his charges.
Under the American law, in a criminal prosecution for
libel, the truth of the charges made constitutes no defense:
White v. Nichols, 3 How. 266; Dorr v. United States, 195
U. S. 138; although it is otherwise in the civil action.to recover damages for libel.
Under the Porto Rican law the truth of the matterb,
written or spoken, of any public employ6, is a complete
defense to an action of libel and would equally seem to

GANDIA P. PETTINGILL.
222 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error

constitute a defense in the case of private individuals
in the absence of evidence tending to show that the publication had been "made without justifiable motive."
At no time did the plaintiff either deny or seek to disprove the truth-in matter of fact of any lof the statements
contained in said publications; on the contrary, he expressly admitted the truth thereof.
The Porto Rican act of.March 9, 1905 (Laws of Porto
Rico, 1905-1906, p. 123), expressly declares: "Sec. 1.
That the fiscal of the Supreme Court, District Attorneys
and municipal judges are hereby prohibited from engaging
in the practice of the law."
Mr. Willis Sweet and Mr. GeorgeH. Lamar for defendant
in error:
The complaint set forth a publication against plaintiff
Which was libellous per se. The language used showed a
clear intent to injure plaintiff in his profession as a lawyer
and to induce the public to believe that he was intentionally and continuously violating the law and guilty of
unprofessional conduct.
The law of libel as it exists in most of the States is applicable in Porto Rico, § 568, Rev. Stat. of 1902; and as to
what are libels actionable per se, see White v. Nichols, 3
How. 266, 285, 291.
Any publication tending to injure a -plaintiff in his
business or profession is actionable per se. Peck v. Tribune
Co., 214 U. S. 185; see also Tillotson v. Cheetham, 3 John.
56; Tawney v. Simonson &c. Co., 109 Minnesota, 341;
,Lathrop v. Sundberg, 55 Washington, 144; Kidder v.
Bacon, 74 Vermont, 263; Wefford v. Meeks, 129 Alabama,
349; Blzrt v. Newspaper Co., 154 Massachusetts, 238;
Culmvr v. 'Canby, 41 C. C. A. 302; Davis v. Shepstone, 11
App. Cases 187.
The court below, instead of committing error to the
prejudice of the defendant below, ruled more favorably to

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opiiiion of the Court.

222 U. S.

him than the law required when it excluded from the consideration of the jury in estimating damages the amount
of the plaintiff's salary from the date of his removal to the
end of his term of office. Sunley v. Insurance Co., 132
Iowa, 123; Kidder v. Bacon, supra.
The publications were not justifiable. It is quite different to say that charges are justified and justifiable than
to say that they are true as charged. One is a matter of the
opinion of the pleader, the other a matter of fact susceptible of proof. It is one thing to say that charges of "improper and immoral conduct" "are based upon facts";
quite another to say that such charges are each and every
one of them true in fact-and to specifr the facts which
support each and all of them. The rule of justification is
strict to that very extent. The justification must be as
broad as the libel. And equally so that such a defense
must specify facts, not be limited to generalities and conclusions. Newell on Slander and Libel (2d ed.), .796;
Morning Journal Assn. v. Duke, 63 C. C. A. 459; Com'l
Pub. Co. v. Smith, 79 C. C. A. 410; Kansas City Star Co.
v. Carlisle, 47 C. C. A. 384.
If there was error it was harmless or without prejudice,
and whether cured by instructions to the jury or in any
other manner will not be considered cause for reversal.
Drumm-Flato Com. Co. v. Edmisson, 208 U. S. 534; Texas
& P. Ry. Co. v. Volk, 151 U. S. 73; Hartford &c. Co. v.
Unsell, 144 U. S. 439; N. Y., L. E. & W. R. R. Co. v. Madison, 123 U. S. 524; So. Ry. Co. v. St. Louis &c. Co., 82
C. C. A. 614; Gilmore v. McBride, 84 C. C. A. 274.

MR. JUSiTc

HolMTs delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is an action for libels and comes here upon a bill of
exceptions after- a verdict for the plaintiff. The alleged
libels consist of a series of articles in a Porto Rican news-

GANDIA v. PETTINGILL.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

paper, La Correspondencia. These articles stated that
the plaintiff, Pettingill, while United States Attorney for
Porto Rico, carried on a private practice also, and even
acted'as a lawyer on behalf of persons bringing suit against
the Government of Porto Rico. It seems that, if the
plaintiff had been an officer of the local government, he
would have been forbidden the practice by the local law,
and the articles convey the idea that'if the practice is not
prohibited also by the law for United States officials, it
ought to be, especially as the Island is charged with a salary for the Attorney. The conduct of Mr. Pettingill in
the above particulars is described as a monstrous immorality, a scandal, &c., &c. In the view that we take it
is not necessary to state the charges here in detail, but it
should be observed that. in the declaration the plaintiff
alleged that *hile United States Attorney he had a large
private practice, and implied, as in his evidence he stated,
that a part of this practice. consisted of suits against the
local government. So there was no issue on the matter
of fact..
So far as the facts were concerned, the publication of
them alone was-not libellous. For apart from the question
whether attributing to the plaintiff conduct that was lawful, as the plaintiff says, could be a libel, Homer v. Engelhardt, 117 Massachusetts, 539, he was a public officer in
whose course of action connected with his office the citizens
of Porto Rico had a serious interest, and anything bearing
on such action was a legitimate subject of statement and
comment. It was so at least in the absence of express malice, a phrase needing further analysis,lalthough not for the
purposes of this case. Therefore the only question open
for consideration were the motives of the publication and
whether the comment went beyond reasonable limits,
course, the defendant denied. But so far as we
which,
see fromofreading
the charge, the judge did not approach the
case from this point of view. For after saying to the jury-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

that fair comment upon the actions of public officials was
privileged he went on "But you are instructed that in this
case .
.
[the articles] are what is known in law as li.
bellous per se. . . . Therefore, in any event you must
find for the plaintiff upon that issue and give him such
damages as you may believe from all the facts and circumstances in the case he is entitled to," and after that proceeded to direct them only as to the conditions for finding
punitive damages also. It is at least doubtful whether this
instruction meant that the comments were excessive as
matter of law. It rather would seem from the previous
explanations given to the jury of the independence of
United States officials notwithstanding the source of their
salaries, and the instructions that the plaintiff's acts were
lawful, that the defendant in order to justify himself would
have to prove that they were wrong in law, and that his
inability to do so might be considered as aggravation of
the damages to be allowed, that the latter considerations
alone were the ground for what we have quoted from the
*charge.
However this may be, what we have said-is enough to
show that the mind of the jury was not directed to what
was the point of the case. We do not see how, making reasonable allowance for the somewhat more exuberant expressions of meridianal speech, it could be said as matter
of law that the comments set out in the declaration went
beyond the permitted line, and we think it at least doubtful whether-the plaintiff would not have got all if not more
than all that he could ask if he had been allowed.to go to
the jury on that issue. In the absence of express malice
or excess the defendait was not liable at all, and in the
case of mere excess without express malice the damages,
if dny, to which he was entitled were at most only such as
could be attributed to the supposed excess. But what
really hurt the plaintiff was not the comment but the fact.
The witnesses for the plaintiff said that the people of Porto

GANDIA v. PETTINGILL.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Cort.

Rico considered the acts charged immoral, and the statute
referred to showed that such was their conception of public
duty. It was peculiarly necessary therefore to instruct the
jury that so far as the publication of facts disapproved by
the community was concerned the plaintiff could not recover for it, however technically lawful his conduct might
have been, except as we have stated above. Instructions
were requested on the point, and the refusal to give them
was excepted to, as also was the corresponding charge.
Without nice criticism of the form of the requests it is
enough to say that they were so nearly correct as to call the
judge's attention to the matter and to require a different
explanation of the defendant's rights.
An exception was taken to the judge's sending the jury
out before the counsel for the defendant had stated all of
his exceptions to the charge. The judge had told the counsel that he would not instruct the jury otherwise than as
he had, and he allowed all the exceptions to be taken in
open court after the jury had retired. No doubt it is the
stricter practice to note the exceptions before the jury
retires, (the judge of course having power to prevent counsel from making it an opportunity for a last word to them).
Phelps v. Mayer, 15 How. 160. But in this case they were
noted at the trial, in open court, United States v. Breitling,
20 How. 252; and in the circumstances stated the defendant suffered no wrong, so that we should not sustain
an exception upon this ground.
[ udgent reversed.

