UNITED STATES v. BARNES.
222 U. S.

Argument for the United States,

UNITED STATES v. BARNES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 565.

Argued October 24, 1911.-Decided January 9, 1912.

The maxim expressio unius est exclusio alterius is a rule of construction
and not of substantive law, and- serves only as an aid in discovering
legislativ6 intent when not otherwise manifest.
The mention in the Oleomargarine Act of August 2, 1886, c. 840,
24 Stat. 209, § 3, of certain specified sections of the Revised Statutes,
.which relate to special taxes, as applicable to the special taxes imposed by § 3, may.exclude other sections relating to special taxes
but does not exclude as inapplicable to the collection of the taxes
imposed by, and enforcement of, the Oleomargarine Act, § 3177,
Rev. Stat., which is general in its terms, and relates to all articles
and objects subject to internal revenue tax.
In view of the custom of embodying National legislation in codes and
systematic collections of general rules, it is the settled rule of decision of this court that subsequent legislation upon a subject
covered by a previous codification carries the implication that general rules are not superseded by such subsequent legislation except
where it clearly appears.
Where there is a codification of revenue laws to prevent fraud, the
inference is that subsequent legislation is auxiliary to the earlier,
and only in case of manifest repugnancy will it be construed as an
abrogation thereof. Wood v. United 8tates, 16 Pet. 342, 363.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the Oleomargarine Act of 1886, and the applicability of § 3177,
Rev. Stat., are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Harr for the United
States:
Oleomargarine is an" article or object subject to tax" to
which § 3177 of the Revised Statutes applies, and there is
nothing in the Oleomargarine Act to warrant its exclusion.
By conferring special and limited authority upon the
internal revenue officers in respect to the manufacture or
vOL. ccxxii-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for the United States.

222 U. S.

sale of oleomargarine, Congress cannot be held to have
intended to deny them the ordinary powers possessed
by them as revenue officers.
Clearly, in the absence of any provision in the Oleomargarine Act expressly or by clear implication negativing
the view, these general powers and duties of the revenue
officers must be held to apply in the enforcement of that
act.
To hold otherwise is to say that the oleomargarine business alone is to be exempted from the necessary and
salutary provisions of the law for the enforcement of
internal revenue taxes and the prevention of fraud in
respect thereto. United States v. Fisher, 2 Cranch, 386;
The Brig Ann, 9 Cranch, 289.
The Oleomargarine Act of 1886, being a revenue act,
In re Kollock, 165 U. S. 526, 536, should be construed together with the general statutes relating to collection
of and the prevention of frauds upon the revenue, especially as it contains no adequate provisions on that subject and would be practically inoperativ otherwise.
Saxonville Mills v. Russell, 116 U. S. 13, 21.
The departmental construction is that general internal
revenue statutes apply in oleomargarine cases. T. D.
Int. Rev., No. 1266; 26 Op. A. G. 282.
The construction given to a statute by those charged
with the duty of executing it will be given great weight
by the court if the true construction be doubtful. United
States v. Hammers, 221 U. S. 220, 228.
The judicial construction of the statute is that general
internal revenue statutes are applicable in oleomargarine
cases. United States v. Thomas Fitzsimmons, Dis. C.
U. S. for Dist. of Michigan (not reported); Hastings v.
Herold, 184 Fed. Rep. 759; Rosencrans v. United States,
165 U. S. 257, 262.
The decisions cited in the opinion below are inapplicable
or erroneous.

UNITED STATES v. BARNES.
222 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

Mr. Henry M. Johnson for defendants in error:
In analogous cases, provisions of the Revised Statutes
have been held inapplicable. In re Archer, 9 Benedict, 428.
As to the applicability of § 3176 to taxes imposed under
the Succession Tax Law, see Wright v. Blakese, 101 U. S.
174.
Congress has always regarded it as necessary, where
it considered it desirable for the machinery of § 3177 and
the three preceding sections to apply to some new object
of taxation, to so state specifically and in unmistakable
terms. See the War Revenue Act, 30 Stat. 466, and
Income Tax Act, § 34, Act August 28, 1894, 28 Stat. 557,
§ 36 of same act on p. 559.
The applicability of the part of the act of June 30,
1864, of which § 3177 is a part, to the Oleomargarine Law
has been raised in five cases, two of which went to different
Circuit Courts of Appeal, sixth and eighth circuits, and in
all of those, cases the courts held that the act of 1864 did
not apply to the Oleomargarine Law. See In re Kearne, 64
Fed. Rep. 481; In re Kinney, 102 Fed. Rep. 468; Schafer v.
Craft, 144 Fed. Rep. 908; S. C., on appeal, 153 Fed. Rep.
176; S. C., on reconsideration, 154 Fed. Rep. 1002;
Grier V. Tucker, 150 Fed. Rep. 658; S. C., on appeal, 160
Fed. Rep. 611. All of above cases were cited with approval in United States v. Lamson, 165 Fed. Rep. 83.
The provisions in question from their very nature have
no application to taxes imposed under the Oleomargarine
La7.
Even if departmental constructi6n is in accordance
with the contention that general internal revenue statutes
apply in oleomargarine cases, the rule of giving weight
to the construction given by those whose duty it has been
to apply the statute is never applied where the intention
of the law-making body is to be gathered from the act
itself. The rule urged is not a controlling rule, but a
rule which is only applicable where the construction of

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

the statute is in doubt and some rule is needed to turn the
evenly balanced scale.
Here it is evident that it was the clear intention of the
law-making body that § 3177 should not apply to taxes
imposed under the Oleomargarine Law.
The Commissioner of Internal Revenue cannot, by a
construction which he places upon an act, extend a penal
statute by implication. Penalties are never extended by
implication. United States v. Harris, 177 U. S. 395; Elliott v. Railroad Co., 95 U. S. 573; Erskine v. Railway Co.,
94 U. S. 619; The Ben R., 134 Fed. Rep. 785; United States
v. Eaton, 144 U. S. 677.
No mere omission or failure to provide for contingencies
will justify judicial addition to a statute. United States
v. Goldenberg, 168 U. S. 103; Glover V. United States, 164
U. S. 295; McKee v. United States, 164 U. S. 287.
The construction of a tariff act by the Treasury Department is not conclusive upon either party, and the collector is not justified by such instructions in imposing
duties not warranted by law. Leming v. Marshall, 15
Fed. Cases, 8243; Balfour v. Sullivan, 17 Fed. Rep. 233;
and see also United States v. Allen, 14 Fed. Rep. 263;
DollarSavings Bank v. United States, 19 Wall. 227; Wright
v. Blakeslee, 101 U. S. 174.
The Oleomargarine Law contains adequate provisions
for its enforcement, and the failure of Congress) when it
incorporated certain provisions of the so-called general
internal revenue laws into the Oleomargarine Act, to incorporate § 3177, clearly evidenced in intention of Congress that said section should not be applicable.
MR. JUsTIcE VAN D FVANTER delivered the opinion

of the court.
The sole question presented for decision by this writ of
error is, whether Rev. Stat., § 3177, is applicable to the col-

UNITED STATES v. BARNES.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

lection or enforcement of the specific tax imposed on oleomargarine by the act of August 2, 1886, c. 840, 24 Stat.
209. In the District Court a negative answer to the question was given, and an indictment drawn and returned
upon the contrary view-was held bad upon demurrer. To a
right appreciation of the question it is essential that a
brief outline be given of the internal revenue laws, of which
§ 3177 is a part, and of the later Oleomargarine Act.
Title XXXV of the Revised Statutes is a codification
and consolidation, according to an orderly arrangement,
of all the then existing laws relating to internal revenue.
It is subdivided into chapters, each embracing cognate
sections bearing upon a particular branch of the general
subject. The first two chapters, one dealing with -the
officers of internal revenue and the other with assessments
and collections, are, with minor exceptions, general in
their terms and application. The third chapter deals with
."special taxes" exacted 6f those who engage in designated
classes of business, such as rectifying or selling distilled
spirits and manufacturing or selling cigars; other chapters
deal separately with specific taxes imposed upon particular articles or objects, such as distilled spirits and
cigars, and the final chapter comprises provisions common
to several objects of taxation. Section 3177 is a part of
the second chapter, dealing with assessments and colletions, and reads:
"Any collector, deputy collector, or inspector may enter,
in the day-time, any building or place where any articles
-orobjects subject to tax are made, produced, or kept, within
his district, so far as it may be necessary, for the purpose
of examining said articles or objects. And any owner of
such building or place, or person having the agency or superintendence of the same, who refuses to admit such officer, or to. suffer -him to examine such article or articles,
shall, for every such refusal, forfeit five hundred dollars.
And when such premises are open at night, such officers

OCTOBER TERM; 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

may enter them while so open, in the performance of their
official duties. And if any person shall forcibly obstruct or
hinder any collector, deputy collector, or inspector, in the
execution of any power and authority vested in him by law,
or shall f oribly rescue or cause to be rescued any property,
articles, or objects after the same shall have been seized by
him, or shall attempt or endeavor so to do, the person so
offending, excepting in cases otherwise provided for, shall,
for every such offense, forfeit and pay the sum of five
Hundred dollars, or double the value of the property so
rescued, or be imprisoned for a term not exceeding two
years, at the discretion of the court."
It will be perceived that the section is comprehensive
in its terms and evidently designed to promote the enforcement of the revenue laws as to "any articles or objects
subject to tax."
The act of August 2, 1886, is a revenue law of the same
class as those embodied in Title XXXV of the Revised
Statutes. It imposes a specific tax on oleomargarine and
"special taxes" on those who engage in its manufacture
or sale, and contains several administrative and penal provisions. But it does not purport to be independent of
other legislation or complete in itself. On the contrary,
it plainly contemplates the existence of an established
system of revenue laws to which resort shall be had in
carrying it into effect. Section 3, which imposes the
special taxes, declares that §§ 3232 to 3241, and 3243, of
the Revised Statutes "are, so far as applicable, made to
extend to . . .. the special taxes imposed by this section, and to the persons upon whom they are imposed."
It is the express extension of those sections to the special
taxes imposed by the Oleomargarine Act which gives rise
to the question before stated. The position taken by the
defendants in error, and sustained by the District Court,
is, that, that extension of particular sections is an implied
exclusion of all others.. gxpressio unius est exclusio alterius.

UNITED STATES v. BARNES..

222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

We are unable to assent to that position. The maxim
invoked expresses a rule of construction, not of substantive law, and serves only as an aid in discovering the legislative intent when that is not otherwise manifest. In
such instances it is of deciding importance; in others, not.
In the instance now before us too much is claimed for it.
*The sections named in § 3 of the Oleomargarine Act are a
part of chapter 3 of Title XXXV of the Revised Statutes.
They relate* exclusively to special taxes and are so restricted in their terms that it is at least doubtful that
they could be"applied to any special taxes not imposed
by that chapter, unless expressly extended to them. To
illustrate, § 3232, whie precedes the others and is more
or less a key to their meaning, declares: "No person shall
be engaged in or carry on any trade or business hereinafter
mentioned until he has paid a special taix therefor in the
manner hereinfterprovided." On the othier hand, the sections in chapters 1 and 2 are, with minor exceptions, so
general in their terms as to leave no doubt of their applicability to taxes imposed by subsequent legislation containing no provision to the contrary. In other words,
the difference between the sections named and those in
chapters 1 and 2- discloses an occasion for affirmatively
extending the operation of the former and no occasion for
mentioning the latter. It also is apparent that the Oleomargarine Act will measurably fail of its purpose if the
general provisions of chapters 1 and 2 are not applicable
to the taxes which it imposes; for, as before indicated, it
does not in itself provide a complete or effective scheme
for their enforcement.- Neither does it contain any provision for the redress of those from whom such taxes are
erroneously or illegally exacted, although the settled
policy of the Government long has been to afford relief
from all such exactions, as is shown by §§. 3220, 3226, 3227
and 3228 in chapter 2. These omissions are cogent evidence that it is intended that recourse shall be had to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

general provisions of chapters 1 and 2, save as in the Oleomargarine Act it may be provided otherwise.
Much of our national legislation is embodied in codes,
or systematic collections of general rules, each dealing in a
comprehensive way with some general subject, such as
the customs, internal revenue, public lands, Indians, and
patents for inventions; and it is the settled rule of decision in this court that where there is subsequent legislation upon such a subject it carries with it an implication
that the general rules are not superseded, but are to be
applied in its enforcement, save as the contrary clearly
appears. Thus, in Wood v. United States, 16 Pet. 342, 363,
where a question arose as to what effect should be given a
general provision of an early customs law in view of a
later enactment upon that subject, it was said: 'And it
may be added that in the interpretation of all laws for the
collection of revenue, whose provisions are often very
complicated and numerous to guard against frauds by
importers, it would be a strong ground to assert that the
main provisions of any such laws sedulously introduced to
meet the case of a palpable fraud, should be deemed repealed, merely -because in subsequent laws other powers
and authorities are given to the"custom-house officers, and
other modes of proceeding are allowed to be had-by them
before the goods have passed from their custody, in order
to ascertain whether there has been any fraud attempted
upon the government. The more natural, if not the necessary inference in all such cases is, that the legislature
intends the new laws to be auxiliary to, and in aid of the
purposes of the old law, even when some of the cases pro.
vided for may equally be within the reach of each. There
certainly, under such circumstances, ought to be a manifest and total repugnancy in the provisions, to lead to the
conclusion that the latter laws abrogated, and were designed to abrogate the former." In Saxonville Mills v.
Russell, 116 U. S. 13, 21, it was said, in disposing of a like

UNITED STATES v. BARNES.
222 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

question: "It would be an unsound and unsafe rule of
construction which would separate from the tariff revenue system, consisting of numerous and diverse enactments, each new act altering it, in any of its aetails, or
prescribing new duties in lieu of existing ones on particular
articles. The whole system must be regarded in each alteration, and no disturbance allowed of existing legislative
rules of general application beyond the clear intention of
Congress."
And in Catholic Bishop of Nesqually v.
Gibbon, 158 U. S. 155, 166, 167, where the question was,
whether general statutes defining the powers of the officers of the Land Department were applicable to a grant
of public lands by a subsequent act of Congress, it was said:
"While there may be no specific reference in the act of 1848
of questions arising under this grant to the land department, yet its administration comes within the scope of the
general powers vested in that department. . . . It
may be laid down as a general rule that, in the absence of
some specific provision tb the contrary in respect to any
particular grant of public land, its administration falls
wholly and absolutely within the jurisdiction of the Commissioner of the General Land Office, under the supervision of the Secretary of the Interior. It is not necessary
that with each grant there shall go a direction that its
administration shall be under the authority of the land department. It falls there unless there is express direction
to the contrary."
We conclude that, while the express extension of perticular sections in chapter 3, dealing with special taxes,
to the like taxes imposed by § 3 of the Oleomargarine Act
may operate as an implied -exclusion of the other sections
in that chapter, it does not in any wise restrict or affect
the operation of any of the general sections in chapters
1 and 2, And as § 3177 is a part of chapter 2, is general in
its terms, and does not appear to be repugnant to any
provision in the Oleomargarine Act, we think the ques-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

222 U. S.

tion first above stated must be answered in the affirmative.
The cases of Craft v. Schafer, 154 Fed. Rep. 1002;
Tucker v. Grier, 160 Fed. Rep. 611, and Hastings v. Herold, 184 Fed. Rep. 759, although not involving § 3177,
disclose some contrariety of opinion in the lower Federal
courts upon the matter principally discussed herein, and
we deem it appropriate to observe that our conclusion
has been reached only after a careful consideration of
those cases.
Reversed.

SOLIAH v. HESKIN ET AL., DRAIN COMMISSIONERS OF TRAILL COUNTY, NORTH DAKOTA.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF TRAILL COUNTY, STATE
OF NORTH DAKOTA.
No. 76. Argued December 5, 1911.-Decided January 9, 1912.
The Fourteenth Amendment does not deprive a State of the power to
determine what duties may be performed by local officers, nor
whether they shall be appointed, or elected by thie people.
The Fourteenth Amendment does not invalidate an act authorizing an
appointed board to determine whether a proposed drain will be of
public benefit, and to create a drainage district consisting of land
which it decides will be benefited by such drain, and to make special
assessments accordingly, if, as in this case, notice is given and an
opportunity to be heard afforded the landowner before the assessment becomes a lien against his property.
The Fourteenth Amendment does not deprive a State of the power
to compel a township, as one of its political subdivisions, to levy and
co]lect. taxes for the purpose of paying the amount assessed against
such township for the public benefits accruing from the construction
of the drain.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

