OCTO1ER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

HUSSEY, ADMINISTRATRIX OF CRANE, v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 32.

Argued November 2, 1911.-Decided November 20, 1911.

One claiming an interest in property and having knowledge of such
claim is charged to consider at the time it is sold by trustees whether
he will assert his title or retain a share of the proceeds; both vendor
and vendee are entitled to timely disavowal in order to protect and
indemnify themselves; acceptance of proceeds and failure to disavow may, as held in this case, amount to ratification.
Even if the'state court has decided that the widow of a deceased partner had a community interest in his share of real estate belonging
to the partnership, if she does not promptly disavow a sale of the
entire property made by surviving partners but accepts part of the
proceeds, and makes no attempt for many years to assert title, she
is guilty of laches and neither she nor her grantees can recover.
Where the reference to the Court of Claims, as in this case, is not to determine whether the grantor of a claimant of a, part interest in real
estate purchased by the United States had a valid title at the time
the United States took possession, but whether the claimant has
acquired a valid title to the property, with provision that the United
States may plead any defense, the conduct of claimant's grantor is
to b e considered; and if such grantor was guilty, as in this case, of
gross laches, claimant cannot recover.
THE facts, which involve the validity of a claim of title
to property in California purchased and occupied by the
United States, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. George A. King for appellants.
Mr. I'rederick dL C. Faust, with whom Mr. John Q.

Thompson, Assistan..t Attorney General, was on the brief,
for the United States.

MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.

The appellants brought this suit in the Court of Claims

HUSSEY v. UNITED STATES.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for the sum of $40,000, that amount being, it is alleged,
the value of their one-sixth of certain real estate in the
city of San Francisco at the time possession was takenl of
the property by the United States.
Jurisdiction of the suit was given by.the act of Congress
approved February 25, 1905, 33 Stat. 815, c. 800, which
is as follows:
"That jurisdiction be, and the same is hereby, conferred
on the Court of Claims to hear the claim of Hannah S.
Crane And others for"the value of certain real property
in the city of San Francisco, in the State of California,
in which they claim an undivided one-sixth interest, upon
the evidence alre-dy filed in said court and such additional
legal evidence as may be hereafter presented on either
side; and if said court shall-find that said parties acquired
a valid title to said real property as claimed, said court
shall award the said parties the market value of the undivided one-sixth of said property at the time possession
.
and any
was taken of it by the United States .
defense, set-off, or counter-claim may b.e pleaded by the
United States, as defendants, as in cases within the general
jurisdiction of the court, and either party-shall have the
same right of appeal as in such cases."
There had been a reference of the claim by a committee
of Congress under an act of Congress called the "Bowman
Act," in which the court made findings substantially as
in the present case, and these findings were certified to
Congress, which subsequently passed the act to which we
have referred.
The facts, summarized, are: that Congress provided
(in 1852) for the establishment of a branch mint in the
State of California, and foi that purpose Authorizedthe
Secretary of the Treasury to make a contract for the
erection of a building and procuring the necessary machinery at a sum not exceeding $300,000. The Secretary
of the Treasury, in execution of the statute, entered into

OCTOBER TERM. 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

a contract for the erection and equipment of the mint, on
April 15, 1853, with Joseph R. Curtis, for the sum of
$239,900. The title to the property was to be satisfactory
to the Attorney General of the United States. A supplemental contract was subsequently made for the purchase
of an adjoining lot. The contracts were performed by
Curtis, and on May 2, 18544,he executed a deed conveying
both lots to the United States, which deed and the title
were approved by the Attorney General, and all of the
sums due under the contracts were paid to Curtis.
On April 15, 1853, the time of the making of the first
contract, the property was owned in fee simple by and
was in the possession of Curtis, Perry & Ward, a firm
composed of Joseph R. Curtis, Philo H. Perry and Samuel
H. Ward. The latter died while on a voyage to the Sandwich Islands. This was not known, and Curtis made the
contract for the benefit of the firm.
Ward left a will appointing his partners his executors.
The will was probated, but Perry alone qualified as executor. The value of the whole lot named in the contract of
April 15, 1853, was appraised at $40,000, and after its
appraisement Perry conveyed all of Ward's interest" in it
to Curtis for the sum of $13,333.33, payment for which he
received. The sale was made by Perry as eiecutor under
the authority given him by the will.
By the terms of Ward's will nine-tenths of. his estate
was devised to his wife, Emily H. S. Ward, and her proportion of the sum so received for Ward's interest wasepaid
to her and accepted by her with full knowledge of the salby Perry as executor, but in ignorance of the extent of
her estate in the land in dispute, as shown by the decision
of the Supreme Court of the State of California. King v.
Lagrange, 50 California, 328. See also 61 California, 221.
She, with her co-legatees under the will, brought suit on
the eighteenth of March, 1854, in the District Court of the
United States for the Northern District of California

HUSSEY v. UNITED STATES.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

against Curtis and Perry. The bill alleged the partnership between Ward, Curtis and Perry, the ownership by
such partners of the lot, the building thereon, and of the
machinery, tools and fixtures in the building then used
for assaying purposes; that the contract and its execution
by Curtis were for the benefit of the partnership. It also
alleged the appraisement of the lot and tools and fixtures,
respectively, at $40,000 and $15,150, and the sale of the
same by Perry, as executor, to Curtis; that the sale was
private, without authority therefor from the Probate
Court, and was made for the joint benefit of Perry and
Curtis "as co-partners in interest in the contract for the
sale of the premises known as the 'United States Assay
Office,' and the conversion of the same into a branch
mint," and was made to deprive the legatees under the
will of their just and legal right to participate in the
profits of the sale to the United States; that the sum paid
by Curtis to Perry was greatly under the value of the
property, in view of the profits arising from the sale to the
United States, and that by virtue of the sale Curtis and
Perry dealt with the partnership property for their individual gain and advantage, and that they conspired to
defraud the complainants of their just share of the purchase money. The object of the bill, therefore, was to
obtain for Mrs. Ward and her co-legatees the full benefit,
jointly with Curtis and Perry, of the contract with the
United States.
Notice of the filing of the bill was given to the Secretary
of the Treasury by sending him a copy of it, but prior to
its receipt the United States had paid Curtis the sum of
$100,000, and balance due was paid at subsequent dates.
The bill was dismissed by complainant's counser in
June, 1854.
In 1855, Perry's acts as executor, which included the
disposition of all of the real estate here involved, were approved and he was discharged as executor. Mrs. Ward

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.,

and the other legatees under the will joining in the petition therefor.
In 1865, Mrs. Ward conveyed all of her interest in the
land to one James L. King, and he, in 1867, brought an
action in ejectment therefor against Robert B. Swain,
the then superintendent of the mint, which action was
subsequently continued against his successor, 0. H. Lagrange, they being only in possession as such officers,
claiming no title in themselves. The United States district
attorney appeared, by direction of the Secretary of the
Treasury and the Attorney General, on behalf of the
United States and conducted the defense.
The case went twice to the Supreme Court of the State,
that court ultimately deciding that the property was the
community property of Ward and Mrs. Ward and that
one-half thereof vested in her, upon his death, as the survivor of the community, and was not subject to his
testamentary disposition, and that it was not established
that Ward had attempted to dispose of more than his
one-half of the community property or that Mrs. Ward
knowingly performed any act indicating, or which could
be construed to be, a waiver of her rights under the will
and a ratification of the sale of her share of the community
property.
The controversy in the case turns on the effect to be
given to the decisions of the Supreme Court of California
in connection with the jurisdictional act.
The Court of Claims Zlid not question the decisions in
so far as they declare that the -property was community
property and that one-half thereof vested in Mrs. Ward
upon Ward's death, and was not subject to his testamentary disposal. The court, however, disagreed with
the Supreme Court of California as to ratification of the
sale by Mrs. Ward.
Such conclusion appellants contend is precluded on two
grounds: (1) the judgment 'of the Supreme Court of Cali-

HUSSEY v; UNITED STATES.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

fornia became a rule of property and conclusive of the
validity of the title; (2) the jurisdictional act confines the
inquiry of the court to the existence of the title, and that
being in appellants they were entitled to a judgment for
the market value of property at the time possession was
taken of it by the United States.
(1) This ground is not tenable. Carr v. United States,
98 U. S. 433, is a parallel case. There, as here, a judgment in an action against officers of the United States in
possession of property, in which action the district attorney of the United States by direction of the Secretary
of the Treasury appeared and defended, was urged in a
subsequent action to estop the United States from contesting the title to the property. It was held that the judgment did not constitute an estoppel. To the same effect
is United States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196, 217.
(2) The act of Congress gives jurisdiction to the Court
of Claims to hear the claim, and if it find from the evidence
on file and to be "presented on either side" that the claimants "acquired a valid title to said real property as
claimed," it "shall award the said parties. the market
value of the undivided one-sixth of said property at the
time possession was taken of it by the United States." It
will be observed, therefore, that jurisdiction was conferred
not to ascertain if Mrs. Ward had title at the time the
United States took possession, but whether the claimants
acquired a valid title, and whether they did or did not
necessarily depends upon the effect of Mrs. Ward's conduct. And, besides, the act is careful to say that "any
defense . . . may be pleaded by the United States,
as defendants."
The defense urged by the United States is the ratification by Mrs. Ward of Perry's conveyance to Curtis. And
this defense was sustained by the Court of Claims, and
properly so, we think.
The decision of Beard v.Knox, 5 California, 252, which

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

defined her interest in the community property, was
rendered in the summer of 1855. The exact date is not
given, but it was at the July term of the court of that
year. Knowledge of it must be attributed to her. There
-iscertainly nothing in the record to show a want of knowledge of it, and the circumstances called for action on her
part if she had intended to disavow the sale. About contemporaneously with the decision she received upon the
settlement of Perry's accounts as executor of her husband's estate, to which she consented through her trustee,
the sum of $37,914.58 and the further sum of $18,893.54,
partly in cash and partly in securities. And the findings
of fact also show, as we have seen, that at the time of
the execution of the deed by Perry to Curtis she received
as her nine-tenths of her husband's interest in the real
estate conveyed (the other one-tenth going to a legatee
under the will) the sum of $13,333.33. Nevertheless she
did absolutely nothing to assert a claim to the property
for ten years, double the limitation of time within which
actions for the recovery oi real property in the State
of California may be barred; and then all that she did was
to convey the property, through her attorney in fact, to
one James L. King for the consideration of $100. King
let two years more elapse before bringing suit. He recovered judgment, as has been stated, but made no effort
to enforce it. He conveyed the property to Charles McLaughlin in 1879, $5 being the consideration expressed.
He had previously conveyed a one-third interest in the
property to William W. Crane, Jr., and James T. Boyd
for a nominal consideration.
We think that the time which Mrs. Ward alloved to
elapse, under the circumstances shown by the record,
precludes her grantees from asserting title to the property,
against the United States. She had actual knowledge of
all that transpired. It is true that at one time she charged
Perry and Curtis with fraudto deprive her and her co-

HUSSEY v. UNITED STATES.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

legatees under her husband's will of their "right to participate in the profits of the sale to the'United States" of
the real property and some other property. In this suit
she did not attack Perry's power to convey the property
because of her title to it under her community rights.
She and the other complainants alleged only a purpose
to defraud them "of their just proportion of the purchase
money arising from the sale of the property." Notice
of the suit, it is true, was given to the Secretary of the
Treasury, but the suit was subsequently dismissed-for
what reason it does not appear. It may be that there
was a complete and satisfactory adjustment between the
parties. And this may reasonably be, if not conclusively,
inferred from the proceedings resulting in the settlement
of Perry's accounts and his discharge from his trust as
executor. Indeed, in the receipt given Perry by the
legatees under the will other than Mrs. Ward the suit
was referred to and authorized to be dismissed, and he,
as executor and individually with Curtis, was released
"from all claims, debts, dues or demands due
by reason of the contract or under said will,,or any other
matter or thing," The date of this receipt was July, 1855.
This and the other transactions were, we repeat, contemporaneous with the decision in Beard v. Knox, and
Mrs. Ward, then knowing her interest in the property,
was charged to consider whether she would assert it or
retain what she had received from Perry as executor. And
Perry and the United States were entitled to a timely
disavowal, if disavowal she intended to make. He then
might have been able to defend against it, and the United
States, against the consequence of the disavowal, could
have sought indemnity against Perry and Curtis. She
must be deemed to have ratified the sale.
Judgment affirmed.

