BROWN v. ALTON WATER CO.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

BROWN v. ALTON WATER COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 75.

Argued December 4, 5, 1911.-Decided January 9, 1912.

This court may not by indirection do that which it cannot do directly;
and cannot, therefore, review on direct appeal a judgment of the
Circuit Court on the question of jurisdiction based on a decision of
the Circuit Court of Appeals which it was the imperative duty of
the Circuit Court to follow, and which is.
not, and cannot be, before
this court for review by appeal.
Where the Circuit Court dismisses for want of jurisdiction, and the
Circuit Court of Appeals does not deem the question of jurisdiction
should be certified to this court but reverses and remands with directions to take jurisdiction, and this court refuses certiorari, a direct
appeal will not lie to this court from the judgment of the Circuit
Court based on the decision of'the Circuit Court of Appeals which
it was-the imperative duty of the Circuit Court to follow.
The Judiciary Act of 1891 affords by one method or the other an opportunity for review by this court.of every judgment or decree of a
lower court which the Judiciary Act contemplated should be reviewed by this court.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
over direct appeals from the Circuit Court, are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. Elijah N. Zoline and Mr. James Hamilton Lewis
for appellants.
Mr. William Burry, with whom Mr. Levi Davis and
Mr. F. B. Johnstone were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of

the court.
In view of the fact that our interposition was vainly
sought at one or the other stage of this protracted litiga-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

tion, we shall state the history of- the controversy more
fully than perhaps we would otherwise do.
In 1901 the New England Water Company owned and
operated a water plant at Alton, Illinois. This plant was
acquired from the Alton Water Works Company. In
October, 1901, the United Water Works Company filed in
a court of the State of Illinois a creditor's bill against the
New England Water Company and the Farmers' Loan &
Trust Company, trustee under a mortgage covering the
plant of the Water Works Company. Other parties and
corporations, because of their asserted claims in or to the
property, were joined as defendants.
The Farmers' Loan & Trust Company not only appeared in the cause, but in the same court filed a bill to
foreclose its mortgage. Among those made defendants to
this bill were a corporation known as the Boston Water &
Light Company and the International Trust Company.
The tIoston Company was made a defendant on the ground
that it asserted some claim to a portion of the property
which the complainant insisted was covered by the mortgage sought to be foreclosed as a result of an afteracquired property clause contained in that mortgage.
The International Trust Company was made a defendant'
as trustee of a mortgage executed in favor of that company by the Boston Company, embracing the property
which the bill averred was covered by the prior mortgage
in favor of the Farmers' Loan & Trust Company.
The causes were consolidated and a receiver was appointed. 'The Boston Water & Light Company, asserting
a separable controversy, removed the consolidated cause
to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Illinois, and that court overruled a motion to
remand. The International Trust Company answered
and contested the claim made in the bill that the property
mortgaged to it was covered by the mortgage of the
Farmers' Loan & Trust Company.

BROWN v. ALTON WATER CO.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The Circuit Court entered a final decree on December 23,
1903. By that decree, the operation of the mortgage in
favor of the Farmers' Loan & Trust Company as charged
in the bill was recognized and the priorities of the respective liens upon the property were fixed. While the lien of
the mortgage in favor of the International Trust Company, as trustee, was recognized, it was decreed to be
subordinate to the prior mortgage to the Farmers' Loan
& Trust Company. The decree contained the usual provisions fixing the amount due, directing paymenqt, ordering a sale upon default in payment, and barring all parties
and their privies.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, on an appeal taken by
the International Trust Company and others, finally disposed of the case. The removal was sustained, and it was
held that by the after-acquired property clause in the
mortgage of the Farmers' Loan & Trust Company, that
mortgage embraced the property covered by the mortgage
in favor of the International Trust Company as trustee*
136 Fed. Rep. 521. A writ of certiorari was refused by
this court on April 3, 1905. Boston Water & Light Co. v.
Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., Trustee, et al., and New England Water Works Co. et al. v. Farmers' Loan & Trust
Co., Trustee, et al., 197 U. S. 622.
A sale under the decree of 'foreclosure took place, the
property bringing about enough to satisfy the mortgage
in favor of the Farmers' Loan & Trust Company. Pending a motion to confirm this sale, certain parties, the same
who are now appellants, alleging themselves to be holders
of bonds secured by. the mortgage of the International
Trust Company, objected to the confirmation of the sale,
on the ground that the property embraced in the mortgage to the International Trust Cdmpany was not covered
by the mortgage of the Farmers' Loan & Trust Company. It was alleged that the persons appearingwere not
privies to the foreclosure proceedings and*the decree en-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

tered therein, because they had not been made parties
eo nomine, and were not represented by the International
Trust Company, as the powers conferred upon that corporation by the deed of trust did not give authority to
represent the bondholders. The objections were stricken
from the files, and the sale was confirmed. Among other
things, the order of confirmation enjoined all parties to
the suit and all persons claiming through or under them,
their attorneys, solicitors, etc., "from setting up any pretended or alleged title against the title of the purchasers."
A question as to the distribution of the proceeds among
coupon holders was subsequently reviewed in the Circuit
Court of Appeals. 137 Fed. Rep. 729.
The present appellee, the Alton Water Company, became the owner of the property sold under the decree in
foreclosure. Subsequently the present appellants, as holders of bonds secured by the mortgage to the International Trust Company, and the same persons who had
objected to the confirmation of the sale, treating the prior
foreclosure proceedings as to them as non-existing, commenced in a state court a suit to foreclose the mortgage
in favor of the International Trust Company. The International Trust Company, the Boston Water & Light
Company, the Alton Water Works Company, the Alton
Water Company, as one in possession of the property, as
well as other bondholders, various alleged lien holders
and adverse claimants, were made parties. As stated by
both parties in argument, persons who were interested in
maintaining the decree in the prior foreclosure proceedings, asked a commitment for contempt against the attorney who appeared for the complainants in the suit in
the state court, and under the stress of a commitment for
contempt the proceedings in the state court were discontinued. The commitment was, however, set aside by
the Circuit Court of Appeals, 154 Fed. Rep. 273, and a
petition- for a writ of certiorari to review the order of

BROWN v. ALTON WATER CO.
222 U. S.

329

Opinion of the Court.

reversal was denied by this court. Peck v. Lewis, 207
U. S. 593.
Following the decision last referred to, appellants refiled their foreclosure bill in the state court. The Alton
Water Company thereupon fied in the court below the
bill which is now before us as ancillary to the bill filed in
the original foreclosure suit, invoking the authority of the
donrt in virtue of the jurisdiction acquired in the foreclosure proceedings, to protect as between the parties to
such suit the rights acquired under the foreclosure sale.
The bill only prayed that the further prosecution in the
state court be enjoined. The defendants were those who
were asserting the right as bondholders under the International Trust Company mortgage to foreclose in the
state court and their attorneys. Each of such defendants
separately filed a general demurrer, and each also specially
demurred on the ground that the court was "without
jurisdiction, both over the subject-matter and parties to
the suit," and that the bill was not an ancillary bill, as it
appeared on its face -that the defendant was not a party
to the prior foreclosure proceedings. The demurrers were
sustained and the bill was dismissed "for want of jurisdiction."
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed this decree, and
held that the persons who, as alleged bondholders, were
complainants in the foreclosure suit in the state court,
had been fully represented in the prior foreclosure by the
International Trust Company, and therefore that such
persons were parties and privies to the prior decree, and
their rights were concluded thereby. Upon this basis it
was expressly decided that the bill did piot invoke the
power of the court as a matter of original j'urisdiction, but
was, in its. essence, purely ancillary, since it only sought
the aid of the court to uphold a jurisdiction previously acquired, and to enforce and protect an authority previously
exerted. In thus enforcing its prior decree it was pointed

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

out there was no room for saying that the original jurisdiction and power of the court as a Federal court was involved, upon the theory that the defendants had not been
brought in by proper process, Since there was no controversy on that subject. It was moreover held that upon the
premises stated none of the grounds of demurrer raised
any controversy as to the general power of the court under
the laws of the United States to administer the relief
prayed, but simply called in question the right of the court
as a matter of chancery practice, to afford relief in the
mode and manner asked. The court decided that the case
was one properly witbin its appellate cognizance, and was
not within the category of cases susceptible of being
brought directly to this court from a circuit court as involving the jurisdiction and authority of the circuit court
as a Federal court. 166 Fed. Rep. 840. A petition for
certiorari to review this action of the court was denied on
January 11, ' 1909. Lewis v. Alton Water Co., 212 U. S.
581.
Several months after the filing of the mandate of the
Circuit Court of Appeals reversing the decree of dismissal,*
the cause was heard upon bill and answer and upon the
default of certain defendants. A decree was entered perpetually enjoining the prosecution of the cause in the
state court and prohibiting any attempt in the future to
foreclose the mortgage to the International Trust Company. Thereupon the court allowed the direct appeal
which is now before us. At the time of granting the appeal there was filed among the papers in the cause a
certificate signed by the presiding judge in which in substance it was recited that when the case came on for hearing the answering defendants challenged the jurisdiction
of the court as a Federal court to hear and determine the
cause, and that the objection was overruled and exception
taken. It was further recited that at the close of the hearing the defendants'excepted to the ruling "that the facts

BROWN v. ALTON WATER CO.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

stated in the answers do not constitute a sufficient defense
in law to the cause of action of the complainants, and that
no constitutional guarantees or privileges of the defendants as set forth in their answers were violated by the
entering of the decree set forth in the bill and answer, and
that the defendants were not deprived of their property
without due process of law in violation of the Federal
Constitution."
It is plain that our right to review depends on the
"existence of a question of jurisdiction subject, under the
Judiciary Act of 1891, to be brought here directly from a
circuit court. The case reduces itself to this, since the
matters of constitutional right to which the court refers in
its certificate are not independent, but are involved in and
subordinate to the question of jurisdiction, and hence will
be disposed of by deciding that issue.
It is not disputable that the action of the court below
on the question of jurisdiction was the necessary result of
the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals, since it was
the imperative duty of the Circuit Court to give effect to
that decision.. As consequently it will be impossible to
reverse for error the action of the Circuit Court without
reversing the foundation upon which the aotioh of that
court rested, that is, the dominant decree of the Circuit
Couri of Appeals, it must result that the decree can only
be reversed by reviewing and reversing the decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals. That decree,, however, not being before us, and moreover as the statute gives no power
to this court to review a decree of a Circuit Court of &ppeals merely because of the eistence of a question of
jurisdiction, it comes to pass that we may not by indirection do that which we cannot do directly, and hence the
decree of the Circuit Court; under the conditions- here
existing, is not susceptible of being reviewed:
The fundamental mistake which underlies the argument by which it is sought to sustain the-right to a direct

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

review consists in failing to distinguish between the mere
methods of review provided by the act of 1891, and the
distribution made by that- act of original and appellate
judicial power. More immediately the fault of the argu,ment consists in disregarding the duty of the Circuit Court
to apply the law of the C'Use arising from the decision of the
Circuit Court of Appeals, an error hitherto pointed out in
Aspen Mining & Smelting Co. v. Billings, 150 U. S. 31.
That case involved an unsuccessful attempt to. obtain a
review in this court of a judgment of a circuit court entered in compliance with a mandate of the Circuit Court
of Appeals to which the case had been previously taken.
In denying the right to review under the circumstances the
court said (p. 37):
"That court (the Circuit Court of Appeals) todk jurisdiction, passed upon the case, and determined by its judgment that the appeal had.been properly taken. If error
was committed in so doing, it is not for the Circuit Court
to pass upon that question. The Circuit Court could n ot
do otherwise thqn carry out the 'mandate from the Court
of Appeals, and could not refuse to do so on the ground of
want of jurisdintion ip, itself or in the. appellate court."
But the proposition insisted upon virtually is that this
ruling is inapplicable here, sinde this case involves a question of jurisdiction directly revieWable in this court under
the,act of 1891. The reasoning sustaining this assumption
is-as follows: As, it is said, -the decision of the Circuit Court
.was in favor of the defendants, anid, therefore, no occasion
arose to seek a review of the question of jurisdiction until
the dacree of the Circuit Court of Appeals, unless it be
held that the right exists to review the action of-the
Circuit Court, it will arise that the right of direct review
of the jurisdictional questions, which it was the purpose
of the act of 1891 to confer upon this court, will be lost
in many cases and thus the purpose of the statute be
frustrated. This, however, as already pointed out, in

BROWN v. ALTON WATER CO.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a changed form of statement involves confounding the
remedial processes created by the act of 1891, with the
distribution of jurisdiction made by that act. True it is
that the act confers authority to directly review the classes
of jurisdictional questions which the act contemplates.
True, also, it is that the act does not deprive judgments of
the Circuit Courts of Appeals of their final character and
open them to review in this court because alone of the
presence of a jurisdictional question susceptible of being
reviewed directly from a Circuit Court. But this affords
no reason for the exertion of an appellate power not conferred by the act, nor does it justify the assumption that
the power uf this court to review in such a case would be
wanting. On the contrary, as pointed out long ago by
this court the remedial processes which the statute of 1891
creates when rightly understood are adequate, by one
method or the other, to afford ample opportunity for a
review by this court of every judgment or decree of a
lower court which the statute contemplated should be
reviewed and revised by this court. Robinson v. Caldwell,
165 U. S. 359. Thus, as the case cited points out,. if a
question of jurisdiction which would be directly reviewable
in this court if arising in the Circuit Court, shouild develop- or require decision for the first time in the Circuit
Courts of Appeals, the power to certify to this court would
afford ample. means to obtain a review by this court of
such question. And f that right in such a case should not
be -exerted by the Circuit Court of Appeals, the discretionary right to allow the writ of certiorari which the act
confers would afford a complete means of securing, in,
the
fullest degree, the results contemplated by the act. It
is, of course, an obvious misconception to indulge in the
assumption that it was the duty of the Circuit Court of
Appeals to have certified the question of jurisdiction, since
the opinion of that court shows that. it deemed the case
would not have justified a direct appeal to this court had

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

222 U. S.

the question of jurisdiction arisen primarily in the Circuit
Court. The fact that after the decision of the Circuit
Court of Appeals a petition for certiorari was considered
aild by this court denied makes it certain that there was
opportunity by this court to revise the action of. the Circuit Court of Appeals.

As it follows that we have no jurisdiction to review by
direct appeal the action of the Circuit Court in giving

effect to the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals, it
results that the appeal must be dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

BERRYMAN v. BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF
WHITMAN COLLEGE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.
No. 95.

Argued December 13, 1911.-Decided January 9, 1912.

The amount in controversy where the question is whether a contract
of exemption from taxation has been impaired by subsequent legislation is measured by the value of the right to be protected and not
by a mere isolated element, such as the tax for a single year.
In this case the jurisdictional value of amount in controversy held to
exceed $2,000, although the actual tax, the collection whereof was
sought to be.enjoined on the ground that its imposition impaired the
obligation of a legislative contract, was less than $2,000.
Cases, in which the jurisdictional value of amount in controversy is
limited to the single tax involved, reviewed and distinguished.
The act of March 2, 1867, 14 Stat. 426, now Rev. Stat., ยง 1889, prohibiting the granting by territorial legislatures of especial privileges
related to conferring new privileges on existing corporationg as well
as to granting privileges in original charters; and the prohibition
included all especial privileges such as exemption from taxation.
In construing a statute the court must be controlled by the power

