GLICKSTEIN v. UNITED STATES.
222 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

GLICKSTEIN v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 486.

Submitted October 19, 1911.-Decided December 4, 1911.

Subdivision 9 of § 7 of the Bankruptcy Act of 1898 and the immunity
afforded by it are not applicable, to a prosecution for perjury committed by the bankrupt when examined under it.
The constitutional guarantee of the Fifth Amendment does not deprive the law-making authority of the power to compel the giving of
testimony, even though the testimony when given may serve to incriminate the witness, provided complete immunity be accorded.
The sanction of an oath and imposition of punishment for false swearing are inherent parts of the power to compel giving testimony and
are not prohibited by immunity as to self-incrimination.
The immunity afforded by the Fifth Amendment relates to the past;
it is not a license to the person testifying to commit perjury either
under the provisions as to the giving of testimony in § 860, Rev.
Stat., or of..he Bankruptcy Act of 1898.
The provisiozis in the Bankruptcy Act compelling testimony do not
confer an immunity wider than that conferred by the Constitution
itself.
A statute in regard to giving testimony, which does not provide for
prosecution for perjury, will not be construed as permitting perjury
because in other statutes in that regard Congress has, from abundant
caution, inserted provisions as to prosecution for petjury.
Edelstein v. United States, 149 Fed. Rep. 636; Wechler v. United States,
158 Fed. Rep. 579, approved. In re Marx, 102 Fed. Rep. 679; In're
Logan, 102 Fed. 'Rep. 876, disapproved.

Tim facts, which involve the construction of subdivision 9, § 7 of the Bankruptcy Act of 1898, are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. John E. Hartridgeand Mr. N. P. Bryan for Glickstein.
The Solicitor General for the United Sttes.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1911.
Opinion of the-Court.

MR. CHIEF JTsTICEFWHITE

222 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Glickstein, an adjudicated bankrupt, was indicted for
perjury in having falsely sworn in the bankruptcy proceeding, while uider examination before a referee, as required
by the seventh section, subdivision 9, of the Bankruptcy
Act of 1898. The indictment was demurred to on the
following grounds: "a. A prosecution for perjury against
a bankrupt at a meeting of his creditors will not lie; b. The
indictment was based upon testimony given by the bankrupt affecting the administration and settlement of his
estate; c. A person cannot be compelled in any criminal
case to be a witness against himself." At the trial which
followed the overruling of the demurrer the testimony of
Glickstein, which was the subject of the indictment, was
offered and objected to on the same grounds upon which
thd demurrer was based, and exceptions were taken to the
admission of the testimony in evidence.
When the legality of a conviction and sentence of Glickstein was before the court below, as the result of error
prosecuted by him, the court, statinge the facts which we
have recited, certified the following question: "Is subsection 9 and the immunity afforded by it applicable to a
prosecution for perjury committed by the bankrupt when
examined under it?"
Section 7, subdivision 9, which we are required to consider in order to solve the .question,. is as follows:.
"The bankrupt shall . .
(9) When present at the
first -meeting of his creditors, and at such other times as
the court shall order, submit to .n examination concerning the conducting of his business, the.cause of his bankrutpcy; -his dealings with his creditors and 6ther persons,
the amount, kind, and whereabouts of his property, and,
in aidifion, all matters which may affect the administration and settrement of his estate; but no testimony given

GLICKSTEIN v. UNITED STATES.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

by him shall be offered in evidence against him in any
criminal proceeding."
It is difficult to determine from the contentions urged
in favor of an affirmative answer, whether it is deemed the
solution of the problem requires us to decide a question of
constitutional right or simply calls for an interpretation
of the provision of the Bankruptcy Act to which the question relates. To exclude irrelevant matter and to confine
our attention to the precise subject to be passed upon, we
state certain propositions which are not open to controversy because foreclosed bydecisions of thiscourt, or which
if not expressly foreclosed are so indubitably the result of
settled principles as to cause them also to be not subject to
reasonable dispute.
.1st. It is undoubted that the constitutional guarantee of
the Fifth Amendment does not deprive the law-making
authority of the power to compel the giving of testimony
even although the testimony when given might serve to
incriminate the one testifying, provided immunity be accorded, the immunity, of course, being recjuired to be complete;. that is to say, inall respects commensurate with the
protection guaranteed by the constitutional limitation.
The authorities which establish this elementary proposition are too numerous to be cited, and we therefore simply
refer to a few of the leading cases on the subject. Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547; Brown v. Walker, 161
U. S. 591; Burrell v. Montana, 194 U. S. 572, 578; Jack v.
Kansas, 199 U. S. 372; Ballmann v. Fagin, 200 U. S. 186,
195; Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43, 66, and Heike v. United
States, 217 U. S. 423.
2nd. As the authority, which the proposition just stated
embraces exists, aud as the sanction of an oath and the
imposition of a punishment for false swearing are inherently a part of the power to compel the giving of testimony,
they are included in that grant of authority and are not
prohibited by the immunity as to self-inerimination. Of

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

course this proposition is essentially the resultant of the
first, since unless it be well founded the first also must
be wanting in foundation. This must be the result, as
it cannot be conceived that there is power to compel the
giving of testimony where no right exisfs to require that
the testimony "shall be given under such circumstances
and safeguards as to compel it 'to be truthful. In other
words, this is but to say that an authority vihich can only
extend to the licensing of perjury is not a power to compel
the giving of testimony. Of course, these propositions
being true, it is also true that the immunity afforded by
the constitutional guarantee relates to the past and does
not endow the person who testifies with a license to con.mit perjury. That this is hot disputable is shown by the
fact that it has been accepted as self-evident in providing
for immunity for one compelled to testify, as shown by the
resefvation in Rev. Stat., § 860, declaring that 'the' immunity shall not extend to "exempt any party or witness
from prosecution and punishment for perjury committed
in discovering og testifying. as aforesaid," and by a like
provision, contained in 'the, act of February 11, 1893, 27
Stat. 443, c. 83. The first of these.provisions was con-.
sidered in Counselman v. Hitchcock, supra, and the second
in Brown v. Walker, supra,where it was expressly decided
that the statute containing it complied with the constitutional guarantee.
With these propositions in hand it follows 'that the
precise question for decision is, Did the guarantee of immunity, contained in the ninth subdivision of § 7 of the
Bankruptcy Act bar a prosecution for perjury for false
swearing in giving testimony under the. command of the
section? In, other words, the sole question is, Does the
statute, in compelling the giving of testimony, confer an
immunity wider than that guaranteed by the Congtitution? The argument to maintain that it does is, that as the
statute provides for immunity and does not contain the

GLICKSTEIN v. UNITED STATES.

222 U. S.

Opinion of the Couih.

reservation found in either § 860, Rev. 6tat., or that embodied in the act of 1893, therefore, under the rule that
the inclusion of one is the exclusion of the other, such reservation cannot be implied. Or, to state the proposition
in another form, it is that as the statute in the immunity
clause says, "But no testimony given by him -(the witness
who is compelled to be examihed) shall be offered in evidence against him in an criminal proceeding," and as
these words are unambiguous, there is no room for limiting the language so as to cause the immunity provision
not to prohibit the offer of the testimony in a criminal
prosecution for perjury. But the contention assumes the
question for decision, since it excludes the possibility. of
construction when on the face of the statute the meaning
attributed to the immunity clause cannot be given to it
without destroying.the words of the statute and frustrating
its obvious object and intent. This may not be denied,
since the statute expressly commands the giving of testimony, and its manifest purpose is to secure truthful testimony; while the limited and exclusive meaning which the
contention attributes to the immunity clause would cause
the section to be a mere license to commit perjury, and
hence not to commaid the giving of testimony in the true
sense of tfe word.
The argument that because the section does not contain
an expression of the reservation of a right to prosecute for
perjury in harmony with 'the reservations in Rev. Stat.,
§ 860, and the' act of 1893, therefore it is to be presumed
that it was intended that no such right should exist, we
think, simply begs the question for decision, since it is
impossible in reason to conceive that Congress commanded
the giving of testimony, and at the same time intended that
false testimony might be given with impunity in the absence
of the most express and spedific command to that effect.
Bearing in mind the Aubject dealt with we think the reservation of the right to prosecute for perjury made in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

222 U. S.

statutes to which we have-referred was but the manifestation of abundant caution, and hence the absence of such
reservation in the statute under consideration may not be
taken as indicative of an intention on the part of Congress
that perjury.mnight be committed at pleasure.
Some of the considerations which we have pointed out
were accurately expounded in Edelstein v. United States,
149 Fed. Rep. 636, by the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Eighth Circuit, and in Wechsler v. United States, 158
Fed. Rep. 579, by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit. And this leads us to observe that the necessary result of the conclusion now reached is to disapprove the opinions in In re Marx et al., 102 Fed. Rep. 676,
and In re Logan, 102 Fed. Rep. 876.
It follows that the question propounded must receive a
negative answer, and our order will be,
Question certified answered No.

RIPLEY v. UNITED STATES.
UNITED STATES v. RIPLEY.
APPEALS FROM THE -COURT OF CLAIMS
ON RETURN TO MANDATE DIRECTING ADDITIONAL FINDINGS.
Nos. 498, 499.

Submitted May 29, 1911.-Decided December 4, 1911.

Wbhere the right of one claiming under a contract with the United
States depends on whether the government inspector acted in good
or in bad faith in refusing to allow the work to proceed, the -findings
of the Court of Claims should be specific in this respect; and if not,
the case will be remanded with directions to make specific findings.
Findings, which simply state that the inspector in immediate charge
of the work acted with knowledge, other inspectors being also referred to in the findings, and which do not make a direct and unequivocal finding as to the good or bad faith -of the inspector iugiv-

