ARAN v. ZURRINACH.
222 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

of the court it does not accord with sound policy. The
appeal for redress in such. case must be to the law-making
power.

Decree affirmed without prejudice.

ARAN v. ZURRINACH.
ERROR TO THE -DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF PORTO RICO.
No. 146.

Submitted December 22, 1911.-Decided January 9, 1912.

Under the act of. April 12, 1900, c. 191, 31 Stat. 85, this court cannot
review a .judgment of the District Court of the United States for
Porto Rico where the amount in controversy is less than five thousand
dollars, unless the validity or interpretation of an act of Congress is
brought in question, or a.right claimed thereunder is denied.
Not every mere question of irregularity in applying the law of the
United States arising in the court below confers a right of review
on this court which otherwise would not exist; and where, as in thi
case, there is generaliik of statement and absence of specification to
sustain the objections raised, in regard to qualifications and drawing
of jurors in Porto Rico and the application of the Federal statutes
thereto, the questions raised will be regarded as too frivolous to
sustain jurisdiction, and the writ of error will be dismissed.
THE

facts are-stated in the opinion.

Mr. FrancisH. Dexter for plaintiffs in error:
The panel of the jury summoned to try this cause was
not drawn from a box containing the names of three hundred qualified jurors.
The said panel was not drawn and the names of jurors
constituting the same were not placed in the box in the
manner required by the act of Congress of June 30, 1879,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

222 U. S.

21 Stat. 43, because it appeared that the court and the
jury commissioner of the court did not have the qualifications provided for by the said act. United States v.
Chaires, 40 Fed. Rep. 820.
The court erred in overruling the separate demurrer of
defendant Dexter. § 1731, Civil Code, Porto Rico.
The conduct of the court below during the trial was
arbitrary, oppressive and illegal and the judgment should
be reversed.
Mr. Frederick L. Cornwell and Mr. N. B. K. Pettingill
for defendant in error:
As the judgment was for less than $5,000, the jurisdiction
of this court must depend upon the presence of a Federal
question which is both material and not frivolous. Royal
Ins. Co. v. Martin, 192 U. S. 149; American R. Co. v.
Castro, 204 U. S. 453; Kent v. Porto Rico, 207 U. S. 113.
As the court held that under the testimony there was
nothing left for the jury to decide but that it must merely
register a decision made for it by the court the question
whether the jury was composed of eligibles or ineligibles
became immaterial and even if error were committed it
could not lead to a reversal of the judgment.
Whether this action of the court, in determining that
upon the evidence no other verdict than one for plaintiff
was warranted, was or not erroneous involves no Federal
question-and, where the actual decision of the case turns
upon a non-federal ground, the judgment cannot be reviewed here because a question, Federal in its nature, may
also have been decided in the course of the trial. Commercial Bank v. Buckingham, 5 How. 317; Hale v. Akers,
132,U. S. 554, 5.64; Cal. Powder Wks. v. Davis, 151 U. S.
389; Leathe v. Thomas, 207 U. S. 93, 99; Ark. S. R. Co. v.
German Bank, 207 U. S. 270, 275.
These consequences appear so clearly from the record
and are so simply reached that, we submit, not only should

ARAN v. ZURRINACH.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the judgment below be affirmed, or the writ of error be
dismissed, but the plaintiffs in error should also be adjudged to pay the 10 per cent damages provided for by
rule 23, as the contentions regarding the presence of a
Federal question are so frivolous that the writ must be
considered to have been taken for delay only. Amory
v. Amory, 91 U. S. 356; Wilson v. Everett, 139 U. S. 616;
Gregory &c. Co. v. Stan, 141 U. S. 222; Texas & P..R.
Co. v. Volk, 151 U. S. 73; Nelson'v. Flint, 166 U. S. 276.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WmT delivered the opinion of the
court.
Zurrinach sued Aran and Dexter, the one as principal
and the other as surety, on a written contract and recovered judgment, the court having instructed a verdict
for the amount claimed, viz., $1,565.72.
When our jurisdiction- to review the court below depends upon amount, five thousand dollars is the criterion.
We have hence no jurisdiction on this writ unless there be
some basis for it other than the amount involved. Act
of April 12, 1900, 31 Stat. 77, 85, c. 191. The basis
relied upon to establish that we have jurisdiction is the
action of the court upon certain motions concerning the
qualifications of the jury commissioners and an alleged
failure of such commissioners, in making up the panel,
to comply with- the law of the United States. The'proceedings thus relied on are as follows: At the opening of
the trial the defendants thus moved:
"Defendants move the Court to quash the panel of
the Jury drawn for service-at this term for the reason
that the said panel was not drawn from a box containing
the names of three hundred qualified jurors; and for the
further -eason that the present panel was not drawn and
the names of the jurors constituting the same were not
placed therein as required by theAct of Gongress, . • •

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S..

in this, to wit; the Clerk of this Court, John L. Gay, is a
member of the Democratic party of the United States,
but is not a member of any political party of Porto Rico
or of the District, nor is he a registered voter in Potto
Rico. The Jury Commissioner of this Court, who together with the said Clerk, placed the names of jurors
in the jury box, is not a member of any political party
of the United States and is not an American citizen, but
is a member of the so-called Republican party of-Porto
Rico. The principal or majority party in this district
is and was at the time the names of jurors were placed
in the said box and drawn therefrom by the said Clerk
and Jury Commissioner the so-called Unionist party.
All to the prejudice of defendants."
On making this motion, the counsel stating that he
desired to offer proof, the clerk of the court-was called
to the stand, but the court refused to hear his testimony
and overruled the motion forthwith, stating "that it
had persofial knowledge of the mode and manner in which
the jury was drawn and the law with reference to the manner and regards the same as having been strictly in accordance with the law and does not 'regard the question
in Porto Rico of the politics of the parties as being applicable to the same extent as it would be in the States."
The motion was "also denied on the ground that it was
not filed within the time required by law and no five days'
notice was given to the other party."*
Xt is settled that the provisions of the thirty-fifth section
of the act of April 12, 1900, previously referred to, which
gives a right to bring to this court from the District Court
of Porto Rico by writs of error or appeal all final decisions
of such court in all cases where - "an act of Congress is
brought in question and the right claimed .thereunder
,is denied" does not contemplate that the right to review
thus conferred should be confined solely to cases where
the validity of an act of Congress is called in question

ARAN v. ZURRINACH.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

or its interpretation is necessarily involved, but also gives
power to review where a right under an act of Congress
was asserted and denied in the court below. Crowley v.
United States, 194 U. S. 461, 466; Rodriguez v. United
States, 198 U. S. 156. In the Crowley case the accused,
by a plea in abatement,- questioned the competency of
certain grand jurors, who participated in the finding of
the indictment, on the ground that the grand jury had
been selected without any reference to the qualifications
prescribed by the local law, when, ,as-the result of an act of Congress, the local law should have been respected and
applied. The- plea was specific, and set up accurately
the particular persons whose qualifications were challenged. Without going into detail in the Rodriguez case,
it is true also to say that the legality of both the grand
and petty jury was drawn in question because-of a failure
toapply the law of the United State governing the same.
But neither the principle which the cases referred to
maintain. nor the reasoning by which they were controlled support the proposition that any and every mere
question of irregularity in applying the law of the United
States which arises in a case in the court below confers
a right to review on this court which otherwise would not
exist. Moreover, neither the rule-announced in the cases
nor the reasoning which controlled them gives support
to the further assumption that the right to a review by this
court of the whole case, which otherwise would not exist.
can be brought about by raising in the court below questions concerning the application or methods of enforcement of the applicable laws of the United States when,
from the manner in which they are raised-that is, their
generality of statement and the absence of all specification to-sustain them-the conclusion is justified that they
are of a frivolous character.
Putting out of view the ruling of the court based on the
delay in making the motion assailing the-capacity of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

jury commissioners and the qualifications of the panel
which, it is urged, establish the right to review by this
court, we are of opinion that the questions raised in the
motion, either inherently or because of the manner in
which they were raised, come within the propositions
just stated and therefore are not controlled by the ruling
in the Crowley or Rodriguez case. In the first place, in so
far as the motion was addressed to the qualifications of the
jury commissioners, it was, on its face, so wanting in merit
and wholly frivolous as to afford no support whatever
to the contention that the court in overruling it denied
a right claimed under an act of Congress. In the second
place, that is, as far as the challenge to the panel is concerned, if it be that the concluding sentence of the motion
referring to the alleged political opinions of some of the
jurors selected by the commissioners was an enumeration
of the disqualification relied upon as the basis of the motion
to quash the panel, its frivolousness was equally manifest.
If, on the other hand, this view be not taken, -then the
mere general statement in the motion to quash, without
any specification whatever of the ground relied upon,
renders a like conclusion inevitable.
As the amount involved is not adequate to give jurisdiction, and the alleged claims of right, under the act of
Congress relied upon for that purpose are inadequate
to form the basis of the exertion of jurisdiction, because
of their unsubstantial and wholly frivolous character,
it results that our order will be,
Writ of error dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

