OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

222 U. S.

the question of jurisdiction arisen primarily in the Circuit
Court. The fact that after the decision of the Circuit
Court of Appeals a petition for certiorari was considered
aild by this court denied makes it certain that there was
opportunity by this court to revise the action of. the Circuit Court of Appeals.

As it follows that we have no jurisdiction to review by
direct appeal the action of the Circuit Court in giving

effect to the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals, it
results that the appeal must be dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

BERRYMAN v. BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF
WHITMAN COLLEGE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.
No. 95.

Argued December 13, 1911.-Decided January 9, 1912.

The amount in controversy where the question is whether a contract
of exemption from taxation has been impaired by subsequent legislation is measured by the value of the right to be protected and not
by a mere isolated element, such as the tax for a single year.
In this case the jurisdictional value of amount in controversy held to
exceed $2,000, although the actual tax, the collection whereof was
sought to be.enjoined on the ground that its imposition impaired the
obligation of a legislative contract, was less than $2,000.
Cases, in which the jurisdictional value of amount in controversy is
limited to the single tax involved, reviewed and distinguished.
The act of March 2, 1867, 14 Stat. 426, now Rev. Stat., § 1889, prohibiting the granting by territorial legislatures of especial privileges
related to conferring new privileges on existing corporationg as well
as to granting privileges in original charters; and the prohibition
included all especial privileges such as exemption from taxation.
In construing a statute the court must be controlled by the power

BERRYMAN v. WHITMAN COLLEGE.
222 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

manifested by the act and not by the motive which initiated it; the
scope of the act may extend beyond the generating causes thereof.
The rule that- exemptions from taxation must be strictly construed
against the exemption is as broad as the subject to which it relates;
the rule applinz-not only to the extent of the legislative grant itself
but also to the power of the legislature to make it.
A contract for exemption from taxation is an especial- privilege, and is
none the less within the prohibitions of § 1889, Rev. Stat., because
granted to an educational institution; it cannot be regarded as beyond the prohibition because granted as an equivalent.
The fact that Congress failed to disapprove an act of a Territorial
legislature does not validate it if the act was passed in direct violation of a prohibitive provision in the organic act. Clayton v. Utah,
132 U. S. 632.

TiE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court of the United States on the question of the amount
involved and also the validity of an act of the legislature
of the Territory of Washington exempting property of an
educational institution from -taxation, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Everett J. Smith, with whom Mr. Lester S. Wilson
was on the brief, for appellants:
The ambunt in controversy is the tax in issue and no
more, and as that is less than $2,000, the Circuit Court had
no jurisdiction.
The effect on future taxation of a decision that the particular taxation -is invalid, cannot be availed of to add
to the sum or value of the matter in dispute. Holt v.
IndianaMfg. Co., 176 U. S. 68; Clay Center'v.Farmers' L.
& T. Co., 145 U. S. 224; New England Mortgage Co. v.
Gay, 145 U. S. 123; Citizens' Bank v. Cannon, 164 U. S.
319; Rude v. Westcott, 130 U. S. 152; Walter v. Northeastern Railroad, 147 U. S.370.
The prayer for a perpetual injunction against future
taxation is superfluous, and is evidently made in aid of

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellants.

222 U. S.

the-urisdictional amount. Brown v. Trousdale, 138 U. S.
389; Smith v. Adams, 130 U. S. 160.
The allegation that the amount in controversy is mice
than $2,000 -is a mere conclusion; and has no weight as
against the specific allegations of the bill, failing to show
such amofint.. Fishbackv. West. Un. Tel. Co., 161 U. S. 26.
The right claimed by appellee of perpetual exemption
from taxation of property now owned by it, and of property which it may hereafter acquire, is purely conjectural.
It may or may not own 'a,dollar's worth of property at
any given time. Kurtz v. Moftt, 115 U. S. 487.
The sum or value of the amount in controversy may
not be made up by a computation of the abstract rights
of appellee to exemption from taxation upon whatever.
property, if any, it may at any time in the future own.
Washington & G. R. Co. v. Dist of Col., 146 U. S. 227.
The Washington Territorial Exemption Act was not
intended to bind the State thereafter to be formed.
The taxing power of the State is never presumed to be
relinquished, and it exists unless the intention to relinquish -it is declared in clear and unambiguous terms, admitting of no other reasonable constrction. Southwestern
R. Co. v. Wright, 116 U/ S.231.
Territorial goveinmnts, cannot be presumed, where a
State would be, to have intended to bind, by a territorial legislative act, States thereafter to be formed from
them, in such sweeping and vit al matters as to perpetually exempt from taxation all- property, which a private
corporation may at any time acquire, within its borders.
Regardless of the intent of the territorial legislature,
the exemption act was void, and did not constitute a
contract for perpetual exemption from taxation. ""
The territorial legislature was directly prohibited from
granting such exemption by the-organic act, § 1924* Rev.
Stat.
-Singling -out this especial college and enacting a law

BERRYMAN v. WHITMAN COLLEGE.
222 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

that its property should be exempt from taxation, showed
a partiality and discrimination- violative of the rule of
both equality and uniformity required by § 1924, Rev.
*Stat. U. S. Edye v. Robertson, 112 U. S. 580; Pollock v.
Farmers' L. & T. Co., 157 U. S. 593; and 158 U. S. 601;
Cooley on Taxation (1903 ed.), p. 381.
The requirement of uniformity in taxation refers to
property or persons of the same class. It requires the rate
to be uniform on the same class everywhere, with all
people and at-all times. State v. Whittlesey, 17 Washington, 447; Miller, Const. of United States, 241.
The territorial grant of exemption was an "especial
privilege," within the meaning of the amendment to the
organic act of March 2, 1867, § 1889, Rev. Stat. New Jersey v. Wright, 117 U. S. 648; Morgan v. Louisiana, 93
U. S. 217; Wilson v. Gaines, 103 U. S. 417; Chesapeake &
Ohio R. Co. v. Miller, 114 U. S. 176; Memphis & Little
Rock R. Co. v' Berry, 112 U. S. 609: The cases of Phoenix
Ins. Co. v. Tennessee, 161 U. S. 174; Pickard v. Tennessee
& R. Co., 130 U. S. 642, simply decide that immunity from
taxation is a personal, or an especial privilege, not extending beyond the immediate grantee, unless otherwise
so declared in express terms.
A territorial law passed in violation of the positive
prohibition of Congress is void. Clayton v. Utah, 132
U. S. 632; Snow v. United States, 18 Wall. 317.
While the assent of Congress may be implied, from
lapse of time, and without specific sanction, to certain
laws of a territory, laws enacted by the legislative assembly of Washington Territory require to be submitted
to Congress, and if disapproved, they are void; § 1850,
PIv. Stat.; Clinton v. Englebrecht, 12 Wall. 446; Miners'
Bank v. Stqte of Iowa, 12 How. 7; Baca v. Perez, 42 Pac.
Rep. 162; this relates to matters of general territorial
procedure, and not to matters contained within a private
act as this one was.
VOL. ccxxii-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellee.

222 U. S.

The territorial legislature recognized the Congressional
requirement that taxes must be uniform and equal, and
that exemptions from taxation, except in cases specified,
were prohibited; see § 2829, Code of Washington Territory, 1881.
The territorial act did not constitute a contract of perpetual exemption from taxation-it was a gift without
consideration.
'In procuring and accepting the amenided: charter, the
Board of Trustees of Whitman College gave no additional pledge, and promised nothing which it had not already promised and was bound in honor to perform under
its acceptance of the original charter. There was no consideration to support a contract for exemption from taxation. GrandLodge v. New Orleans, 166 U. S. 143.
If appellee is entitled to relief in any event, the decree
of the court is too broad.
Mr. W. T. Dovell, with whom Mr. George Turner and
.Mr. Thomas Burke were on the brief, for appellee:
The jurisdictional amount is involved. Although the tax
for one year is less than $2,000, clearly the right to a perpetual exemption of all of appellee's property exceeds that
in value. Betterinan v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co.,
207 U. S. 225; Mississippi & Missouri R. Co. v. Ward,
2 Black, 485; Hunt v. N. Y. Cotton Exchange, 205 U. S.
322; Lanning y. Osborne, 79 Fed. Rep. 657.
When the object or purpose of the bill is the assertion
of a right which is alleged to be disputed by the respondent, and it may be fairly gathered from the bill that the
asserted right is of a value in excess of two thousand dollars, jurisdiction is thereby conferred. Brown v. Trousdale, 138 U. S. 389; Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. McConnell, 82 Fed. Rep. 65; Scott v. Donald, 165 U. S. 107;
Texas & Pac. Ry. Co. v. Kuteman, 54 Fed. Rep. 547;
Stinson v. Dousman, 20 How. 461; Evenson v. Spaulding,

BERRYMAN v. WHITMAN COLLEGE.
222 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

150 Fed. Rep. 517; Delaware Ry. Co. v. Frank, 110 Fed.
Rep. 689; Smith v. Adams, 130 U. S. 167; Albright v.
Sanoval, 200 U. S. 9; American Fertilizing Co. v. Board
of Agriculture, 43 Fed. Rep.. 609; Simon v. House, 46
Fed. Rep. 317; Humes v. City of Fort Smith, 93 Fed.
Rep. 857; Southern Express Co. v. Mayor &c. of °Ensley, 116 Fed. Rep. 756; City of Hutchinson v. Beckhan,
118 Fed. Rep. 399; Pennsylvania Co. v. Bay, 138 Fed.
Rep. .203.
Citizens' Bank v. Cannon, 164 U. S. 319, was not a
suit to exempt property from taxation permanently.
Assuming the jurisdictional amount to be-sufficient,
the Circuit Court had power to hear the cause under the
authority of numerous cases: Given v. Wright, 117 U. S.
648; Walla Walla City v. Walla Walla Water Co., 172
U. S. 1; City Ry. Co. v. Citizens' R. Co., 166 U. S. 557;
Vicksburg Water Works Co. v. Vicksburg, 185 U. S. 65; Wilmington & Weldon R. Co. v. Alsbrook, 146 U. S. 279;
Ill. Cent. R. Co. v. Adams, 180 U. S. 28; Starin v. New
York, 115 U. S. 248.
The rule that an asserted exemption from taxation
will not be upheld, if by any reasohable interpretation
it may be avoided, has no application here. Citizens'
Bank v. Parker, 192 U. S. 85;-Clinton v. Englbrecht, 13
Wall. 441; Swan v. Williams, 2 Michigan, 431;TValker v.
S. P. Ry. Co., 165 U. S. 593.
The court will not strike down an act of the -territorial
legislature unless it be clearly repugnant to the parmount
law, and if, by any reasonable interpretation of the act,
it may be made to consist with the suDerior law. it shall
stand.
Congress granted to the people of the Territory of Washington the right of self-government. In so doing it placed
upon them the duty of providing for the education of
their youth, and failed to make a specific charge as to
how that duty should be performed. It is fair to assume

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellee.

222 U. S.

that the plan adopted will not be demolished unless it be
found unquestionably to defy'some provision of the paramount law.
The term "especial privileges" as used in the act of
Congress does not refer to a grant of this character. Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Co. v. Miller, 114 U. S. 176; Phoenix
Ins. Co. v. Tennessee, 161 U. S. 174; Plattsmouth v. Nebraska Telephone Co., 114 N. W. Rep. 588.
The right to occupy-often to monopolize-ferry sites,
bridge sites or' highways had been granted, and there
was no uniformity in the powers, franchises and privileges
thus granted to different incorporations.
It was to prevent this and to establish uniformity in
the powers and privileges of corporations that the act of
1867 was passed. It was meant to deprive the legislature
of the power to grant private charters and to require them
to pass general laws for this purpose. Jones v. Habersham,
107 U. S. 174.
No grant made by the State for an adequate consideration may be called an "especial privilege," and an institution of the character of appellee certainly renders to the
State a consideration to support its charter. Dartmouth
College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 519; Home of Friendless v.
Rouse, § Wall. 430, 437; State v. Hamline University
(Minn.), 48 N. W. Rep. 1119; Yale University v. New
Haven (Conn.) 42 Atl. Rep. 87; Illinois v. Ill. Cent. R. Co.,
33 Fed. Rep. 730, 769; Firemen'sFund v. Roome, 93 N. Y.
313.
The maintenance of institutions of learning has ever
been considered a public function, and any corporation or
association which helps to perform this function renders a
public service.
The act of the territorial legislature granting the exemption, not having been disapproved, is valid.
There was conferred upon territorial legislatures the
power to legislate upon all rightful subjects of legislation

BERRYMAN v. WHITMAN COLLEGE.
222 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

not inconsistent with the Constitution and laws of the
United States. § 1851, Rev. Stat.; 12 A. & E. Enc. of Law
(2d ed.), 272; St. Paul & Pacific R. Co. v. Frank M.
Parcher &c., 14 Minnesota, 224, 250; Clinton v. Englebrecht, 13 Wall. 446; Cooley's Const. Am. (7th ed.), p. 54,
note; Miners' Bank v. Stat of Iowa, 12 How. 1; Atlantic
& Pac. R. Co. v. Lesueur (Ariz.), 19 Pac. Rep. 157; Sperling v. Calfee (Mont.), 19 Pac. Rep. 204; Baca v. Perez,
42 Pac. Rep. 162; Williams v. Bank of Mich., 7 Wend.
540; Clayton v. Utah, 132 U. S. 632.
Even under the failure of Congress to disapprove, the
act of the legislature is the strongest possible evidence of
approval by that body.
The act of the legislative assembly of 1883 was an
amendment of the preexisting charter and did not constitute a new charter. Wallace v. Loomis, 97 U. S. 146;
Louisville Gas Co. v. Citizens' Gas Co., 115 U. S. 683;
Attorney Generalv. Joy (Mich.), 20 N. W. Rep. 806; S. P.
R. Co. v. Orton, 6 Sawyer, 157, 185; Wells v. 0. R. & N.
Co., 15 Fed. Rep. 561.
The prohibition contained in the act of Congess did
not deprive the legislature of the power to alter the preexisting charter by special law. Morawetz on Priv. Corp.
(2d ed.), § 12; Attorney General v. Railroad Companies,
35 Wisconsin, 425.
The grant of perpetual exemption is based upon a
consideration so that it constitutes a contract. Grand
Lodge v. New Orleansj 166 U. S. 143.
By the amendatory act the scope of the institution
was increased from that of a seminary to a college. This
enlarged scope, on account of which large contributions
are alleged to have been received and the additional
obligation undertaken by the amended charter, furnished
the consideration for the exemption. City Railway Co.
v. Citizens' R. Co., 166 U. S. 557.
The consideration for a grant of an exemption from

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

taxation to an institution of this character is always to
be presumed. Illinois Central R. R. v. Decatur, 147 U. S.
201.
The exemption in the charter is not in contravention
of the organic act. Columbia &c. R. R. Co. v. Qhilberg,
6 Washington, 612.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
On December 20, 1859, the legislature of Washington
enacted a private law creating Whitman Seminary in
Walla Walla County. By the act eight persons were incorporated under the name of the "President and Trustees
of Whitman Seminary." The corporation was given perpetual existence and the incorporators authority to govern
its affairs and to name their successors. The right to acquire and hold real estate was conferred, with the duty of
devoting all the revenue to the support of an institution of
learning, for the education of both sexes, which it was the
purpose of the act to have established. The capital stock
of the corporation was limited by the sixth section to
$150,000. The act was accepted by the incorporators
and the institution for which it provided, the Whitman
Seminary, was established in Walla Walla County. After
a lapse of twenty-three years, the Seminary, in November, 1883, oWned considerable personal and real property,
devoted to the purposes of the corporation. In that year
and month a special act was passed by the territorial
legislature, entitled "An act to amend

.

.

."

-the act

previously referred to (November 28, 1883, Laws of 1883,
p: 399). By this act, in the form of an amendment the
original incorporators were incorporated under the name
of "The Board of Trustees of Whitman College." The
act, .section by section, amended the prior act. It gave
the trustees power to perpetuate themselves and govern

BERRYMAN v. WHITMAN COLLEGE.
222 U. S.

.343.

Opinion of the Court.

the new corporation, which was endowed with perpetual
existence. The act, in many rpspects, enlarged the powers
of the old corporation, struck out the sixth section, which
contained the limitation of $150,000. of capital stock, and
substituted for it the following: "That the property of
said board of trustees of Whitman College, including all
income and proceeds shall be used -exclusively for the
purposes of education, and in consideration of* said use,
said property, income and proceeds shall'not be subject
to taxation." The organic law of the Territory, the act
of Congress of March 2, 1867, § 1, 14 Stat. 426, c. 150,
when this last act was passed, contained the following,
now embodied in Rev. Stat., § 1889:
"That the legislative assemblies of the several Territories of the United States shall not, after the passage of
this act, grant private charters or especial privileges, but
they may, by general incorporation acts, permit persons
to associate themselves together as bodies corporate for
mining, manufacturing, and other industrial pursuits, or
the construction or operation of railroads, wagon-roads,
irrigating-ditches, and the colonization and improvement
of lands in connection therewith, or for colleges, seminaries, churches, libraries, or any benevol6nt, charitable
or scientific association."
Whitman College took over the property and effects of
the Seminary. It increased its holdings of real and personal property, the avails of which were all devoted to the
purposes of the institution. It was in existence when the
territorial government passed out of being and the State
of Washington was incorporated into the Union, and it is
conceded by both sides in argument that no question
which requires to be decided on this record calls for a consideration of any of the events or legislation which were a
part of the transition from the territorial form of government to statehood. Up to 1905 -it
is inferable that no attempt was made to tax the property of Whitman College.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

In 1905, however, the assessing officers of the county of
Walla Walla, who axe the appellants upon this record,
acting under the authority of the state taxing law, and,
uponf the assumption that the property of the corporation
was taxable, assessed its real property in the county of
Walla Walla not actually and physically used for the purposes of the institution, and taxes were levied on such
assessment amounting to $946.32. The corporation thereupon filed in the- Circuit Court of the 'United States the
bill which is now before us. The bill contained no averment of diversity of citizenship, and exclusively invoked
the authority of the court below upon the ground of the
existence of a perpetual contract right of exemption from
taxation created by the sixth section of the act of .1883,
and the impairment of such contract by the assessment
and levy of the taxes in question.
The bill, as amended by stipulation, averred the existence of the contract, the compliance by the corporation
with all .its obligations, the acquisition of large amounts
of property through contributions and otherwise dedicated
to the purposes of the corporation, the detriment and loss
which would be occasioned as the result of levying taxes
upon the property of the corporation by the county of
Walla Walla or otherwise by state authority, the destruction of the right of perpetual exemption, not only- as to
the present but. as to all future acquired property of the
corporation which would result, and a conseqftent loss or
damage vastly in excess of two thousand dollars. In
substance, the prayer was for a decree recognizing and
enforcing the contract of perpetual exemption from taxation as to all the property of the corporation, present or
prospective, and for an injunction adequate to secure these
results.
The defendants by demurrers challenged the jurisdiction of the court and the equity of the bill. After hearing,
the court held that it had jurisdiction, that the contract

BERRYMAN v. WHITMAN COLLEGE.
222 U. S.

-345

Opinion of the Court

declared on had been established and was protected from
impairment by the contract clause of the Constitution and
therefore the assessment and levy of the taxes complained of were void.. As defendants elected not to further
plead, a final decree was entered,granting the relief prayed
in the bill. The appeal now before us was then taken.
The taxing officers of the county of Walla Walla, the
defendants below and appellants here, insist that we may
not review the merits, because the 'court below had no
jurisdiction over the cause, and therefore we must reverse and remand, with directions to 'dismiss the 'bill.
This rests upon the proposition that as the tax was below
the jurisdictional amounb, it afforded no basis for jurisdiction. The suifa of the levied tax, it is urged, could not
be increased by considering the power of taxation which
might be exerted in other-taxing districts,-or by adding
taxes which, -if the right to tax existed, might be assessed
and levied in future years. This, it is insisted, is not only
sustained by reason, but is sanctioned by pri6r decisions
of this .court.
Both assumptions are wrong. The first, because it
misconceives the character of the relief prayed, which was
the enforcement of a contract ekemption during the perpetual life of the corporation and as broad as its power to
acquire and hold property.
C6nsidering the averments of the bill, the amount and
value of the property of the corporation, and the nature
and character of the contract of exemption asserted, it
cannot be doubted that the value of the thing in issue,
the contract right, exceeded in value the jurisdictional
amount. Grafiting that the-uncertaihties of the future
and the shifting ownership of property forbids, in a contest merely over the validity of a tax, adding the sum of
future taxes which might be levied to the an*bunt of taxes
,actually levied for the purpose of jurisdiction, that principle can have no application to a case where the issue

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of tife Court.

222 U. S.

presented is not only the right to collect, but also to levy
all future taxes. The admission that the right to-tax may
be abridged by contract, and that such contract may not
be impaired without violating the Constitution, carries
with it of necessity the power and the duty to protect the
contract right and in the nature of things causes jurisdiction for such purpose to be measured by the value of the
right to be protected, and not by the value of some mere
isolated element of that right. And the 'doctrine just cited
has been applied in two cases so obviously in principle like
this as practically to foreclose the question. The first is
New Orleans v. Citizens' Bank, 167 U. S. 371. In that
case a corporation of the State of Louisiana filed its bill
in the Circuit Court to enjoin the collection of all taxes of
a particular character against it, on the ground of a contract of exemption protected from impairment by the
contract clause of the Constitution. As a means of establishing the existence of the contract exemption relied
upon,. certain judgments recognizing the existence of the
contract exemption and enjoining particular taxes were
pleaded as conclusively, by the principle of the thing
adjudged, establishing the existence of the alleged contract.: It was contended, among other things, that as the
controversies in the cases in which judgments had been
rendered concerned taxes for only particular years, the
thing adjudged arising from the judgments was necessarily restricted to the taxes of the years in controversy
and did not extend to future taxes, as they were not and
could not have been embraced in the litigation. Deciding
that this contention was unsound and deducing the existence of the contract as the result of the proof arising from
the thing adjudged, it was pointed out that to deny in a
case of contract exempting from taxation the right to a
decree co-extensive with the power to tax which the contract restrained would be in and of itself an impairment
of thf contract, since if 1 idicial power was not adequate to

BERRYMAN v. WHITMAN COLLEGE.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

control by the thing adjudged -the right to a contract
exemption and to prevent violations of such right, the
power to contract would be of no avail. The second case,
Deposit Bank v. Frankfort, 191 U. S. 499, came here on
error to the Court of Appeals of the State of Kentucky.
In the state court a judgment of a Circuit Court of the
United States, recognizing the existence of- contract exemption from taxation was pleaded as a bar against the
enforcement of taxes which were embraced within the
contract of exemption. The state court refused to give
effect to the pleaded judgment of the Circuit Court of the
United States on the ground that as by the settled rule in
Kentucky judgments restraining the collection of taxes
were limited to the particular taxes referred to and did not
extend to taxes for future years, the judgment of the Circuit Court should be so limited, and therefore that judgment was not res judicata. In reversing the action of the
state court on this subject, this court said (p. 512):
"The vice of this argument consists in assuming that
the taxes for specific years were alone involved and covered by the decree of the court. The controversy was as
to the force and effect of the Hewitt law as a contract;
not for one year bult for all years; not for one assessment,
but for all assessments of taxes upon certain property of
the bank. The contest was over the contract, and the
consequent want of power to collect any and all taxes the
assessment of which did violence to the contract rights of
the bank. The court had jurisdiction of the parties and
of the subject-matter of the suit, and it was adjudicated
that there was a contract which was entitled to protection against impairment by state legislation within the
right guaranteed by the Federal Constitution. This adjudication necessarily included not only the taxes for
specific years, but foreclosed the right to collect any taxes
concerning which the contract afforded immunity to the
bank."

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

Measuring the contention as to the absence of the jurisdictional sum by. the principls thus established, it answers itself, since the argument is equivalent to saying
that a subject which is necessarily includedl in the relief to
be granted and is, in the nature of things, concluded by the
decree to be rendered is yet excluded from consideration
for the purpose of the issues in the cause-that is, may not
be taken into account in ascertaining.whether there is
jurisdiction over the controversy.
We state in the margin the cases principally relied upon
to support the contention as to the want of jurisdiction.1
It would suffice to say of these cases that if they supported the proposition which they are cited to maintain,
they have been qualified and restricted by the cases which
we have just reviewed. But such result is uncalled for,
hs an analysis of the cases will show that all of them considered, in the absence of contract; where the right to levy
a particular tax was assailed, whether there was authority
to make up the jurisdictional amount required, by calling
into the consideration the influence which the judgment
might have upon different taxes or the power to take in
view future illegal taxes upon the theory that they might
be levied.
We come to the merits, that is, to determine whether
the special act incorporating Whitman College was a
private charter within the prohibition of the organic act
and therefore void, and, if not, whether the exemption
from taxation which it conferred was an "especial privilege" within the prohibition of .the organic act and hence
beyond the power of the territorial legislature to grant.
We thus at once bring face to face the act of 1883 and the
v. Indiana Manufacturing Co., 176 U. S. 68; Clay Center v.
Farmers' L. & T. Co., 145 U. S. 224; New England Mortgage Security
Co. v. Gay, 145 U. S. 123; Citizens' Bank v. Cannon, 164 U. S. 319;
Rude v. Westcott, 130 U. S. 152; Walter v. Northeastern Railroad Co.,
147 U.S. 370.
1 Holt

BERRYMAN. v. WHITMAN COLLEGE.
222U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

prohibitions of the organic act dismissing all questions
concernIng the incorporation of the Territory of Washington into the Union as a State, because, as we have seen,
it is conceded that nothing on that subject controls the
question here to be decided.
We do not think it necessary to inquire whether the act
of 1883, although it be assumed that it virtually called
into being a new juridical person endowed with new
powers, and duties, may be treated, not as the briginal
grant of a private charter, but as simply an amendment
of the prior charter, because of the form in which the act
of 1883 was couched. This is done, because as the issues
for decision will be disposed of by considering.the case in
the light of the prohibition against "especial privileges,"
it will become unnecessary to- consider the operation of
the prohibition against the grant of private charters. We
think it clear also that the disjunctive character of the
prohibition found in the organic act excludes in reason
the possibility of saying, as contendea in argument, that
the especial privileges provided against were simply intended to prohibit the conferring of such privileges as
part and parcel of the granting of the prohibited private
charters. To addpt such a view wold cause the prohibition against especial privileges to be superfluous, and
would be repugnant to the plain intent of the act, as
manifested from its language. That intent, we think, was
to take away the power to grant the forbidden especial
priileges by any form of legislative action, leaving no
room, therefore, for the implication that it was the purpose of the organic act to recognize the right to give
especial privileges, provided only it was not made a part
of the grant of a forbidden private charter. And this also
completely serves to dispose of the contention that it was
the intention of the prohibition against especial privileges
to forbid merely the creation 'of such privileges as a legislative ,grant of an exclusive right to ferries, bridges, etc.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

which it is urged was7 a common.form of territorial legislative abuse prior to the adoption, in 1867, of the organic
act, and therefore was presumably the evil intended to be
reached by the enactment of that act. We say this because, even if it be conceded that such alleged abuses
were the generating cause of the insertion in the organic
act of the prohibition against especial privileges, that
concession affords no ground for the generic prohibition
and for saying that it should be only applied to one class
of especial privileges to the exclusion of all other such
privileges. We.must be controlled by the power which
the act manifests, not by a csnsideration of the mere
motive which initially energized the bringing of the power
into play.
We at once moreover concede, for the sake of the argument, that the exemption from taxation which was conferred was upon a consideration, and therefore rested in
contract, and if it was in the power of the territorial government to make, is protected from impairment by the
contract clause of the Constitution. With this concession
in mind, and before coming tb determine whether the
exemption was valid, that is, whether, in and by virtue
of the prohibition in the organic law forbidding especial
privileges, the territorial legislature was incompetent to
grant a contract exemption, we briefly advert to the contention made that a broad meaning must be given to the
organic act for the purpose, if it can be done, of establishing that there was no limit upon the power of the territorial legislature to exempt. It is conceded that the
elementary rule is that exemptions from taxation must
be strictly construed. But it is said that this applies only
to the contract of alleged exemption, and has no relation
to the inquiry whether the legislature had the power to
exempt, because full legislative power must be presumed
to exist unless there be a plain prohibition to the contrary. While we are of opinion that the contention has

BERRYMAN v. WHITMAN COLLEGE.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the'Court.

no direct bearing on the more important proposition here
to be decided, we cannot give it, even by silence, our
assent, because we consider that it admits, on-the one
hand, the rule of strict construction and at once denies it
upon the other, by improperly restricting the.area
of its
operation. We say this because if, in a particular case,
the duty arises of determining whether words of restriction found in the fundamental law are intended to operate
a limitation on the legislative power to grant contract
exemptions from taxation, the rule of strict construction
is just as applicable as it would be to a case where it was
applied for the purpose of determining whether the particular terms of an alleged, contract did or did not embrace an exeinption from taxation. We think the rule'of
construction is as broad as the subject to which it relates
and its operation does not depend upon whether the question is one of limitation of legislative power or of the true
interpretation of a contract asserted to be one of exemption.
This brings us to the text of the organic act. That a
contract giving perpetual succession to a corporation and
endowing it with a perpetual exemption from taxation as
to all its property, real and personal, is an "especial
privilege," seems to us too clear for anything but statement. We fail to see how any other conclusion can be
reached, in view of the fact that the very essence of such
a contract is to endow the corporation as to its property
forever with the privilege of being exempt from the operation and control of the essential governmental power of
taxation and thereafter to cause the corporation and all
its property, so far as that subject is concerned, to live
under the law of the contract and not under the law of
general taxation.
But it is said that while this may be the superficial
view, it is not an accurate and legal one, since the word
privilege has been construed by this court not to include a

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

contract of. exemption from taxation. The cases relied
upon are, Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. v. Miler, 114 U. S. 176,
and Phanix Insurance Co. v. Tennessee, 161 U. S. 174.
Briefly, the subject passed upon in those case and in
others of a similar character was this: Where a corporation enjoyed a right of exemption as to the whole or a
part of its property, did such exemption from taxation
pass under a foreclosure sale to the purchaser at such sale
when by law the rights and privileges of the corporation
were transferred by the sale? In other words, the question
was whether the transmission of the privileges of the
corporation to another embraced the privilege resulting
from a contract exemption from taxation. It was held
that it did not, upon the theory that a contract exemption
from taxation was so exceptional in its nature, that the
right to transmit it was not embraced in the general
authority to transmit privileges, and therefore the power
to transfer must be expressly and specially conferred.
These rulings were but an illustration in another form of
the duty to which we have previously referred under all
circumstances to bring to the consideration of the question whether a contract exemption from taxation exists
the rule of strict construction. And of course, whenthe
principle upon which the cases were decided is rightly
understood their inappositeness to the case before us is
manifest. This must be, unless it can be said-that rulings
which held that a contract of exemption was a privilege
of such character that it could not be transmitted without
express authority was a ruling that a contract exemption
was no privilege at all.
It is urged that as in this case there was a consideration
for the especial privilege granted, the agreement of the
incorporators to establish and maintain an institution of
learning, therefore the exemption cannot be held to be an
especial privilege within the intendment of the organic
act, since the privilege so bestowed was conferred not as

BERRYMAN v. WHITMAN COLLEGE.

222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

an especial privilege, but as an equivalent for the contract
obligations assumed. As we have seen, however, it is the
contract of exemption which, in the very nature of things,
characterizes the grant as an especial privilege. When this
is borne in mind it appears that the proposition is that the
feature which gave to the grant the essential characteristic
of an especial privilege must be held to cause it not to be
of that nature.
The only principal contention remaining unnoticed is
the alleged acquiescence of Congress in the grant of exemption resulting from its failure to disapprove the act

of 1883.

Rev. Stat., § 1850.. The foundation, however,

upon which that contention rests has been decided to be
without merit. Clayton v. Utah, 132 U. S. 632, 642.
We have not reviewed the minor considerations wbich,
in various forms of statement, have-been' pressed in argument concerning the wisdom displayed by the territorial
assembly in enacting the act of 1883, and the far-reaching
and public benefits which have resulted from the provisions of that act and the possible injury to the public weal
to arise from. now hblding that the contract exemption
from taxation which the act granted was beyond the scope
of the legislative authority. It suffices to say that whatever may be the cogelicy of the suggestions thus made, it
is obvious that they but invite us into a field of inquiry
which lies beyond the line which separates the judicial
from the legislative authority, and therefore we may not
give heed to them.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed and the cause
is remanded to the District Court with directions for
further proceedings in conformity to this opinion.

voL. ccxxni-23

