OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

222-U. S.

take that position; but we need not repeat what we said
in No. 89 of those orders or of the proclamation. It is not
possible to hold that the proclamation of the President
was intended to supersede the laws of war and attach to
every appropriation by the military officers conducting operations of war the obligations and remedies of contracts.
It could not have been the intention of the President to
prevent the seizure of property when necessary for military
uses, or to prevent i6'confiscation or destruction. For
the reasons for this conclusion we refer to the opinion in
the HerreraCase.
Judgment agirmed.

EX PARTE IN THE MATTER OF LEAF TOBACCO BOARD OF TRADE OF THE -CITY OF
NEW YORK, PETITIONER.
APPLICATION FOR LEAVE TO FILE PETITION.
Original.

Motion for leave to file petition. Submitted December 4,
1911.-Decided December 11, 1911.

One who is not a party to the record and judgment is not entitled to
appeal therefrom.
The action of the lower court in refusing to permit the movers to become parties to the record in this case is not susceptible of being
reviewed by this court on appeal; or indirectly, under the circumstances of this case, by mandamus.
The merely general nature and character of the petitioners' interest in
thi proceeding is not such as to authorize them to assail the action
of the court below. This is the more obvious as the act of the court
which is assailed has been accepted by the parties to the record.

THE petitioner states in its petition that it is a corporation of the State of New York and "is composed of
more than seventy-five business concerns engaged in the
business of selling leaf-tobacco to manufacturers of tobacco products. That the said concerns are vitally in-

EX PARTE LEAF TOBACCO BOARD OF TRADE. 579
222 U. s:

Statement of the Case.

terested, both directly on their own accQunt and indirectly
on the account of the customers to whom they sell and
offer to sell leaf tobacco, in the proper determination by
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of New York of the matter of the dissolution and
disintegration of the Combination found by this Honorable Court to exist among the American Tobacco Company
and the other defendants in the cause entitled, 'United
States of America vs. American Tobacco Company,' which
cause, upon appeal from the said Circuit Court, was decided by this Honorable Court on May 29, 1911," and
reported at 221 U. S.106. It also states that in pursuance
of such decision the said cause was remanded to the said
Circuit Court with directions to enter a decree in conformity therewith and to take such further steps as may
be necessary to fully carry out the directions therein, and
"that the decree entered in this cause by the Circuit Court
is not in compliance with the mandate of this court."
The petitioner prayed that leave be granted to fil with
this court a petition praying for the following relief:
1. That a writ of mandamus issue to the judges of the
said- Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of New York, directing them to vacate and set
aside the said decree, and to enter a decree in conformity
with the opinion and mandate of this court.
2. That a writ of prohibition issue directed to the said
judges, prohibiting them from proceeding to put the said
decree into effect and from granting the further and supplemental remedies and relief therein provided for.
3. That a writ of, certiorari issue Teluiring the said
judges to return and certify to this court all the-pro'ceedings had before them in the said cause since the filing of
the mandate of this court in the court, below, with all
doduments and evidence on which they may have acted
in determining the form of their said decree.
4..-That a writ of mandamus issue requiring the -said

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Petitioner.

.222 U. S.

judges to permit your petitioner to intervene in said.
cause, and to be joined -as a party thereto, with the right
to appeal from said decree or otherwise proceed in said
cause as such party.
5. That pending the hearing and decision of said petition
and of the return thereto, all proceedings by the defend-,
ants or any of them looking to the execution of the plan
of dissolution described in said decree, be stayed.
Mr. Felix H. Levy and Mr. Benjamin N. Cardozo for
petitioner:
If the decree of the Circuit-Court fails to give effect
to the mandate of this court, the wrong is one that may
properly be redressed at the instance of this petitioner.
Matter
of Eastern
220 .U. S. 83.
Where
a publicCherokees,
duty exists, a citizen has such an
interest in its performance as-.entitles him to the protection
of-the writ of mandamus. In such cases it matters not
that he be not a party to the record. Union PacificR. R.Co. v. Hall,91 U. S. 343, 354; 26 Cy-. 401; Attorney-General
v. Boston, 123 Massachusetts, 460; Mayor. &c. of London
v. Cox, L. R. 2 H. L. 239, 278; Chambets v. Green, L. R.
20 Eq. Cas. (1875), 552, 554.
If the decree be repugnant to the mandate, mandamus
is the appropriate remedy. Matter of Eastern Cherokees,
220 U. S. 83; In re Pottg, 166 U. S. 203 In re City Bank,
153 U. S. 246; Stewart v. Salomon, 97 U. S; 361; Tyler v.
Magwire, 17 Wall. 253, 282.
In re Sandford Fork .& Tool Co., 160 U. S.247, is not
applicable here so as to defeat the right to mandamus.
If the writ of mandamus be refused, the petitioner and'
the public are without a remedy. There can be no appeal, because th petitioner was not a party to the suit,
and the Circuit Court denied a motion for leave to intervene.. See Virginia v. Rived, 100 U. S. 313, 323.
The decree is repugnant to the mandate, and perpetu-

EX PARTE LEAF TOBACCO BOARD OF TRADE. 581
222 U. S.

Per Curiam.

ates a monopoly which this court declared should be
destroyed.
The decisions in the Northern Securities Case and the
Standard Oil Case are inapplicable here.
The court has power to impose any terms that it thinks
just upon the defendants, as a condition of securing exemption from the appointment of a receiver and the issuance of an injunction against interstate traffic.
If the petitioner is not entitled to the writs prayed
for as a matter of right, it is at least entitled as a friend
of the court to bring the variance between the decree and
the mandate to the court's notice; and the court has
power of its own motion to remedy the wrong. Stewart
v. Salomon, 97 U. S. 361; Ladd v. Stevenson, 112 N. Y.
325, 332; 23 Cyc. 948.

CuRLk: Leave to file petition denied.
1. One who is not a party to a record and judgment
is not entitled to appeal therefrom. Bayard v. Lombard,
9 How. 530; Indiana v. Liverpool, London & Globe Ins.
Co., 109 U. S. 168; Ex parte Cockroft, 104 U. S. 578.
2. The action of the court below in refusing to permit
the movers to become parties to the record is not susceptible of being reviewed by this court on appeal, or
indirectly, under the circumstances here disclosed, .by the
writ of mandamus. In re Cutting, 94 U. S. 15, and see
Credits Commutation Co. v. United States, 177 U. S. 311.
3. The merely general nature and character of the interest which the movers allege they have in the papers here
filed is not in any event of such a character as to authorize
them in this proceeding to assail the action of the court below. This is more obvious in this case since the act of the
court which is assailed has been accepted by those who are
parties to the record. United States v. Union PacificR. R.
Co., 105 U. S. 262; Elwell v. Fosdick, 134 U. S. 500.
PER

