SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. KENTUCKY.
222 U. S.

Syllabus.

vertisement the use of its films for dramatic reproduction
of the story. That was the most conspicuous purpose for
which they could be used, and the one for which especially
they were made. If the defendant did not contribute to
the infringement it is impossible to do so except by taking
pirt in the final act. It is liable on principles recognized
in -every part of the law. Rupp & Wittgenfeld Co. v.
Elliott, 131 Fed..Rep. 730, 732. Harper v. Shoppell, 28
Fed. Rep. 613. Morgan Envelope Co. v. Albany PaperCo.,
15 U. S. 425, 433.
It is argued that the law construed as we have construed
it goes beyond the power conferred upon Congress by
tlekConstitution, to secure to authors for a limited time
the exclusive right to their writings. Art. I, § 8, cl. 8.
It is suggested that to extend the copyright to a case like
this is to extend it to the ideas as distinguished from the
words in which those ideas are clothed. But there is no
attempt to make a monopoly of the ideas expressed. The
law confines itself to a particular, cognate and well known
form of reproduction. If to*that extent a grant of monopoly is thought a proper way to secure the right to the
writings this court cannot say that Congress was wrong.
Decree affirmed.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. COMMONWEALTH
OF KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.

No. 247.

Argued October 11, 12, 1911.-Decided November 13, 1911.

An artificial situs for purposes of taxation is not acquired by the enrollment of a vessel at a port or the marking of that port on the
stem, under §§ 4141 and 4178, Rev. Stat., as amended by the act
of June 23, 1874, 18 Stat. 252, c. 467.
The taxable situs of a vessel which has no permanent location within

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

.222 U. S.

another jurisdiction is the domicile of the owner. Ayer & Lord Tie
Co. v: Kentucky, 202 U. S. 409, followed, and Old Dominion Steamship Co. v. Virginia, 198 U. S. 299, distinguished.
A vessel is built to navigate the seas and not to stay in port and it
does not acquire a situs in one port rather than another by, reason
of frequently -visiting the former. Hays v. Pacific Mail Steamship
Co., 17 How. 596.
Although equality of burdens be the general standard sought to be
obtained in taxation, the legality of the tax is not to be measured
by ,the benefit received by the taxpayer, nor are protection and
taxation necessarily correlative obligations.
The taxing power can only be interfered with on the grounds of unjustness where the abuse is flagrant and can be remedied by some
affirmative principle of constitutional law.
A corporation organized under the law of a State and having its general office and holding its corporate meetings therein, receives such
protection from that State as affords a basis for taxing its intangible
property which has not acquired a situs for taxation elsewhere.
The taxable situs of a vessel not permanently located within another
jurisdic'tion does not depend upon whether the State which is the
domicile of the owner possesses a port which such vessel could reach.
Such a test ,would introduce elements of uncertainty dependent
upon: draft-of the vessel and depth of the water.
Vessels engaged in coastwise trade belonging to a Kentucky corporation held to be taxable in Kentucky although enrolled in the port
of New York, having the name of New York painted on their sterns
and never were at any port in Kentucky.
134 Kentucky, 417, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the power of the State of
Kentucky to tax steamships belonging to a corporation
of that State but enrolled at the port of New York, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. Alexander Pope Humphrey and Mr. Maxwell Evarts
for plaintiff in error:
Kentucky is the artificial situs of the ships of the
Southern Pacific Company, New York their actual situs.
They are therefore not rightfully subject to taxation in
Kentucky.

Taxation is imposed by a State in return for protection

SOUTHERN PACIFIC .O.
222 U. S.

v. KENTUCKY.

65

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

given. Unless a State gives some return for a tax imposed there is no ground for the tax.
To tax personal property where it has no situs is to
take property without due process of law, and is prohibited by the Fourteenth Amendment.
As to real estate it was never doubted that the taxing
laws of a State could have no extraterritorial force. It
has now come to be settled law that the same is true as
to personal property. Louisville & Jeffesonville Ferry
Co. v. Kentucky, 188 U. S. 385; D., L. & W. R. R. Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 198 U. S. 342; Union Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 195.
Six cases have been decided by this court in reference
to the taxation of ships. Hays v. PacificMail S. S. Co., 17
How. 596; St. Louis v. The FerryCo., 11 Wall. 423; Morgan
v. Parham, 16 Wall. 471; TransportationCo. v. Wheeling,
99 U. S. 273; Old Dominion S. S. Co. v. Virginia, 198 U. S.
299; Ayer & Lord Co. v. Kentucky, 202 U. S. 409.
This court having held that the protection given by the
taxing sovereignty to the thing taxed is the true basis of
taxation, and that this principle should be applied in the
case of personal property, as well as to real estate, it is
not plain why ships alone of all personal property should
be excepted from the rule.
The Court of Appeals of Kentucky declined to hold
that the State which furnished protection to the thing
taxed alone had the right of taxation, upon the ground
that it was prevented from so doing by the decisiops of
this court in reference to the taxation of ships.
The decisions cited do not so hold. There is no
case d.cided by this court which holds that a ship in the
coastwise trade can be taxed by an inland State within
whose jurisdiction it is a physical impossibility for it ever
to come. Further than that, in its later decisions this
court has .favored the rule of reason and common sense,
viz., that ships should not be taxed in the artificial situs
VOL.. ccxxn-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

of the domicile of the owner, but in their actual situswhere they receive the protection of the taxing power.
In every case in this court where the principle that the
domicile of the owier was to be regarded as the situs of
the vessel for the purpose of taxation, it was always adomicile where it was physically possible for that ship to
be, and not a domicile where under no circumstances the
taxing power could have the ship within its jurisdiction.
The question is: Are these ships to be taxed in a State
which does, and can give them, no protection or in a State
which can and does do so-in a State where the fiction of
the law as to persondIty following the owner's domicile
must be extended to an extreme, or in one where they have
an actual situs, so far as possible for ships engaged in
coastwise trade to have a situs, and pay a tax to that State
which does something for them in return?
Mr. Matt J. Holt, -with whom Mr. Joseph Selligman
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JusTICE LURTON

delivered the opinion of the court.

The question arising upon this writ of error is, whether
certain steamships owned by the Southern Pacific Company, a corporation of the Sate of Kentucky, are taxable
in Kentucky as property having a taxable situs there.
The Southern Pacific Company is a corporation organized under a special act of the General Assembly of Kentucky of March 17, 1884. Acts of 1883-4, p. 725. Very
wide and diverse powers are thereby conferred, among
them being the right to own, lease, maintain and operate
railroads, telegraphs aid steamships, though prohibited
from owning, leasing or operating "_any railroad within the
State of Kentucky." By an act of March 21, 1888, the act
of March 17, 1884, was amended by adding thereto the
following: "Except subject to and in conformity with the
provisions of the laws of the State of Kentucky applicable

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. KENTUCKY.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to railroads, and acquiring no special rights that may be
possessed by any railroads in the State, except the general
and ordinary rights of common carriers as possessed by
railroads generally." The company is required to keep its
principal office in the State, with power to open other
offices at places outside of the State, as its business may
make convenient.
By virtue of the authority conferred the company has
acquired and is operating a line of railway from New Orleans and Galveston to San Francisco and Portland, to
say nothing of connecting lines in the same region either
owned, leased or controlled through stock domination.
It also owns and operates a line of twenty steamships between the ports of New York and New Orleans, New York
and Galveston, and New Orleans and Havana, Cuba.
Auxiliary to these ships it also owns barges, tugs and ferryboats, which operate exclusively in the harbors of the
ports mentioned. These tugs, barges, etc., were held to
have acquired a permanent situs in such ports, under the
ruling in Old Dominion Steamship Co. v. Virginia, 198
U. S. 299, and in this the State of Kentucky acquiesced,
leaving open only the question of the taxable situs of the
ocean-going steamships.
All of these ships are enrolled at the port of New York
and carry on their sterns the words "New York;" as required by the statute. Two of them sail between New
Orleans and Havana, five between New York and New
Orleans'exclusively, and thirteen interchangeably between
New York and New Orleans, and New York and Galveston, Texas. The enrollment at New York and the marking of the name of that port upon the stern of these
vessels is only of importance upon the question of an
actual situs at New York. The owner has no power to
give his vessel a taxable situs by the arbitrary selection
of a home port, which is neither his domicile, nor the domicile of actual situs. St. Louis v. Ferry Co., 11 Wall. 423;

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

Old Dominion Steamship Co. v. Virginia, 198 U. S. 299;
Ayer & Lord Tie Co. v. Kentucky, 202 U. S. 409.
Sections 4141 and- 4178, Revised Statutes, as amended
by the act of June 23, 1874, 18 Stat. 252, c. 467, give to
an owner the right 'to mark upon the stern of his vessel
either the name of the place of enrollment, the place where
the vessel was built, or the place where the owner resides.
As the place of enrollment is not of itself determinative
of the place of taxation, it is obvious that the right to
select a place to be marked upon the stern as a place of
hail or home port, does not confer the arbitrary right upon
the owner of selecting a place for the taxation of his vessel.
To give to the statute this construction, said this court
in Ayer & Lord Tie Co. v. Kentucky, cited above (p. 426),
"would be simply to hold that its purpose was- to endow
the owner with the faculty of arbitrarily selecting a place
for the taxation of his vessel in defiance of the law of
domicile and in disregard of the principle of actual situs."
Since, therefore, an artificial situs for purposes of taxation is not acquired by enrollment nor by the marking
of a fname upon the stern, the taxable situs must be that
of the domicile of the owner, since that is the situs assigned to tangibles where an actual. situs has not been
acquired elsewhere. The ancient maxim which assigns
to tangibles, as well as intangibles; the situs of -the owner
for purposes of taxation has its foundation. in the protection which the owner receives from the government of
his residence, and the exception to the principle is based
upon the theory that if the owner, by his own act, gives
to such property a permanent location elsewhere, the
situs of the domicile must yield to the actual situs and
resulting dominion of another government. Thus in St.
Louis v. Ferry Co., 11 Wallace, 423, 430, this court, after
referring to the taxing power of a State as extending to
all persons and property within its territorial jurisdiction,
said:

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. KENTUCKY.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"In the eye of the law personal property, for most purposes, has no locality. . . . In a qualified sense it accompanies the owner wherever he goes, and he may deal with
it and dispose of it according to the law of his domicile.
If he die intestate, that law, wheresoever the property
may be situate, governs its disposal, and fixes the rights
and shares of the several distributees. But this doctrine
is not allowed to stand in the way of the taxing power in
the locality where the property has its actual situs, and
the requisite legislative jurisdiction exists. Such property
is undoubtedly liable to taxation there in all respects as if
the proprietor were a resident of the same locality. The
personal property of a resident at the place of his residence is liable to taxation, although he has no intention to
become domiciled there. Whether the personal property
of a resident of one btate situate in another can be taxed
in the former, is a question which in this case we are not
called upon to decide."
The question thus reserved was decided adversely to
the State of domicile in Union Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199
U. S. 194.
The persistence with which this court has declared and
enforced the rule of taxability at the domicile of the owner
of vessel property, when it did not appear that the vessels had an actual situs elsewhere, is illustrated by the
cases of Hays v. Pacific Mail Steamship Company, 17
Howard, 596; Morgan v. Parham, 16 Wallace, 471; St.
Louis v. Ferry Co., 11 Wallace, 423; Old Dominion Steamship Co. v. Virginia, 198 U. S. 299, and the case of Ayer
& Lord Tie Co. v. Kentucky, 202 U. S. 409.
In Hays v. Pacific Mail Steamship Company it appeared
that the ships of the company were the property of a New
York corporation, and that they were registered at the
port of New York, where the capital represented by them
was assessed for taxation. They were regularly and continuously employed on the Pacific coast, and were re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

fitted and repaired from time to time at Benicia, in the
State of California. Concerning these ships, which the
State of California sought to tax upon the theory that they
had an actual situs in that State, this court said (p. 598):
"These ships are engaged in the transportation of passengers, merchandise, &c., between the city of New York
and San Francisco, by the way of Panama, and between
San Francisco and different ports in the territory of Oregon. They are thus engaged in the business and commerce
of the country, upon the highway of nations, touching at
such ports and places as these great interests demand,
and which hold out to the owners sufficient inducements
by the profits realized or expected to be realized. And so
far as respects the ports and harbors within the United
States, they are entered and cargoes discharged or laden
on board, independently of any control over them, except
as it respects such municipal and sanitary regulations of
the local authorities as are not inconsistent with the Constitution and laws of the General Government, to which
belongs the regulation of commerce with fqreign nations
and between -the States.
"Now, it is quite apparent that if the State of California
possessed the authority to impose- the-tax in question,
any other State in .the Union, into the ports of which the
vessels entered in the prosecution of their trade and business, might also impose a like tax. It may be that the
course of trade or-other circumstances might not occasion
as great a delay in other ports on the Pacific- as at the port
of San Francisco. But this is a matter accidental, depending upon the amount .of business to be transacted at
the particular port, the nature of it, necessary repairs,
&c., which in no respect can affect the question as to
the situs ofthe property, in view-of the iglt of taxation
by the State.
"Besides, whether the vessel, leaving her home port
•for trade and commerce, yisits, in the course of her vbyage

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. KENTUCKY.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

or business, several ports, or contmes her operations in the
carrying trade to one, are questions that will depend upon
the profitable returns of the business, and will furnish
no more evidence that she has become a part of the personal property within the State, and liable to taxation
at one port than at the others. She is within the jurisdiction of all or any one of them, temporarily, and for
a purpose wholly excluding the idea of permanently abiding in the State, or changing her home port."
In St. Louis v. Ferry Co., cited above, the steamboats
in question were owned by an Illinois corporation, which
had its principal office within that State. They were
enrolled at the port of St. Louis, where the principal
officers of the company resided, and where an office was
maintained, in which the corporate meetings were held
and where the corporate seal was kept. That they were
enrolled at St. Louis, the court said, "throws no light upon
the subject of our inquiry.....
The solution of
the question, where her home port is, when it arises, depends wholly upon the locality of her owner's residence,
and not upon the place of her enrollment." The steamers
were taxed in Illinois, and were held not subject to taxation
in St. Louis. Upon this subject the court said (p. 431):
"The owuer was, in the eye of the law, a citizen of that
State, and from the inherent law of its nature could not
emigrate or become a citizen -elsewhere. As the boats
were laid up on the Illinois shore when not in use, and the
pilots and engineers who ranothem lived there, that locality, under the circumstances, must be taken to be their
home port. They did not so abide within the city as to
become incorporated with and form a part of its personal
property. Hence they were beyond the j~irisdiction of
the authorities by which the taxes were assessed, and the
validity of the taxes cannot be maintained."
In Morgan v. Parham, the vessel was owned and registgred in New York, but enrolled as a .coaster at Mobile,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

where her master resided and where there was an office
and agent under the control of a superier agent residing
at New Orleans, who employed and paid the other officers
and men of the ships. There was also a wharf at Mobile
controlled and occupied by the vessels of the line. The
vessels were engaged in commerce between Mobile and
New Orleans and had been so continuously for several
years. The court held that, "the State of Alabama had
no jurisdiction over the vessels for the purpose of taxation,
for the reason that they had not become incorporated
into the personal property of that State, but were there
temporarily only, and that they were engaged in lawful
commerce between the States with their situs at the home
port of New York, where they belonged and where their
owners were liable to be taxed for their value.
The case of The Old Dominion Steamship Company v.
Virginia, affords an instance of where the domicile of the
owner as a taxing situs was held to have been lost and a
new taxing situs acquired by reason of a permanent location within another jurisdiction. But in that. case the
judgment was rested upon the fact that the vessels had
for years been continuously and exclusively engaged in
the navigation of the Virginia waters, 'which State had
thereby acquired jurisdiction for imposing a tax as upon
property which had become incorporated into the tangible
property within her territory.
Coming now to the last utterance of this court, the case
of. Ayer & Lord Tie Company v. Kentucky, we find a complete authority for upholding the assessability of these
steamers by the State of Kentucky. The boats there in
question were engaged in interstate commerce between
the ports -of Kentucky, Illinois, Mississippi, Tennessee
and Arkansas. They were owned by an Illinois corporation which had its principal office at Chicago, where taxes
had been paid under the laws of the State, both to the
State and to the city. Brookfield, in the" extreme south-

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. KENTUCKY.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

em part of the State, and upon the Ohio river, was a port
of call, and an office was probably maintained there, it
being a place .where.cargoes were often discharged. The
general manager of the transportation department of the
company resided in Kentucky and the boats of the fleet
were enrolled at Paducah in that State, and bore upon their
sterns the name "Paducah," as the home port or port of
hail under the statute. Paducah was the place where the
boats received their supplies and repairs, where seamen
were hired and laid up when not in use, though it seems
that Paducah was not a point where cargo was either received or discharged. Upon this state of facts it was held
that the boats of the company had hieither such artificial
situs through enrollment or the marking upon their sterns,
nor such actual situs by reason of the temporary stoppage
at Paducah and other ports of the State, as to draw to it
jurisdiction for purposes of taxation. The result of the
previous decisions was there summed up, -the court saying (p. 421):
"The general rule has long been settled as to vessels
plying between the ports of. different States, engaged in
the coastwise trade, that the domicil of the owner is
the situs of a vessel for the purpose of taxation, wholly
irrespective of the place of enrollment, subject, however,
to the exception that where a vessel engaged in interstate
commerce has acquired an actual situs in a State other
than the place of the domicil of the owner, it may there
be taxed because within the jurisdiction of the taxing
authority."
It has been urged that the case of Union Transit Co.
v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194, lairs down the principle that
jurisdiction to impose taxes -upon tangible property is,
under the Fourteenth -Amendment, wholly dependent upon
the actual situs of the property taxed, and that *thefiction which gives movables the situs of the owner for purposes of.taxation is inconsistent with that due process of

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

law guaranteed under that Amendment. The question for
decision in that case, as stated in the forepart of the opinion (p. 201), was, "whether a corporation organized under
the laws of Kentucky Is subject to taxation upon its tangible personal property, permanently located in other States
and employed there in the prosecution of its business."
The property in question was railroad cars, a kind of movables obviously capable of acquiring a permanent location
other than that of the owner. The judgment of the court
was that the taxation of such property so permanently
located elsewhere by the law of the domicile of- the owner
would be a denial of due process of law and beyond the
power of the State. The principle was not a new one, and
was declared to rest upon repeated judgments of this court,
the cases of Railroad Co. v. Jackson, 7 Wallace, 262; Delaware &c. Railroad v. Pennsylvania, 198 U. S. 341; Louisville &c. Ferry Co. v. Kentucky, 188 U. S. 385, being cited
as precedents. That judgment did not deny to the State
of the domicile of the owner power to tax tangibles which
had not acquired an actual situs elsewhere.
The case presented no such question and the opinion
does not refer to the numerous cases. holding that the
taxable situs of ships engaged in foreign or interstate commerce was that of the owner unless an actual situs had
been elsewhere acquired. -That no such consequence was
attached to the judgment or opinion is evidenced from
the opinion in Ayer & Lord Tie Company v. Kentucky,
announced at the same term and concurred in by Mr.
Justice Brown, who wrote the opinion in the Transit
Company case, in which case it was distinctly affirmed
that vessels were subject to taxation only at the domicile
of the owner, unless they had acquired an actual situs
in another jurisdiction.
To lay down a principle that vessel property has no
situs for purposes of taxation other than that of actual permanent location, would introduce elements of uncertainty

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. KENTUCKY.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

concerning the situs of such ,property not presented by
other kinds of movable property.
It is one thing to find that a movabld, such as a railway
car, a stock of merchandise, or a herd oi cattle, has become a part of the permanent mass of property in a particular State, and quite another to attribute to a sea-going
ship an actual situs at any particular port into which it
goes for supplies or repairs or for the purpose of taking
on or discharging cargo or passengers. A ship is not intended to stay in port, but to navigate the'seas. Its stay
in port is a mere incident of its voyage, and to determine
that it has acquired an actual situs in one port rather than
another would involve such grave uncertainty as to result often in an entire escape from taxation. This court,
in Hays.v. Pacific Mail Steamship Co., supra, said upon
this subject (p. 599), "whether the vessel, leaving her
home port for trade and commerce, visits, in the course
of her voyage or business, several ports, or confines her
operations in the carrying trade to one, are questions that
will depend upon the profitable returns of the business,
and will furnish no more evidence that she has become a
part of the personal property within the State, and liable
to taxation at one port than at the others. She is within
the jurisdiction of all or any one of them temporarily,
and for a purpose wholly excluding the idea of permanently
abiding in the State, or changing her home port."
In People ex rel. Pacific Mail Steamship Company v.
Commissioners of Taxes, 58 N. Y. 242, 246, the New York
court said, concerning the necessity of determining the
taxable situs of such ships by some more certain standard
than by the ports they make and the time they remain,
that, "being in port is only a necessary ihcident in their
proper employment. They are not built to be in iiort, but
upon the sea. To determine their situs, for purposes of
taxation, by their longer or shorter stayin a particular port,.
or by their more or les frequent resort to it, would intro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S..

duce perpetual uncertainty; it would, practically, subject
them to taxation- in every port, or exempt them in all."
The difficulties attendant upon the taxation of intangible property elsewhere than at the domicile of the owner
have largely preserved the domicile of the owner as the
proper situs for purposes of taxation.
The legality of a tax is not to be measured by the benefit
received by, the taxpayer, although equality of burdens
be the general standard sought to be attained. Protection and taxation are not necessarily correlative obligations, nor precise equality of burden attainable, however desirable. The taxing power is one which may be
'interfered with upon grounds of unjustness only when
there has been such flagrant abuse as may be remedied
by some afflgnative principle of constitutional law.
Take the case,in hand. The Southern Pacific Company
iq a corporation having much extraordinary power. It
only exists and exercises this power by virtue of the law
of Kentucky. By the law of its being it resides in Kentucky and there maintains its general office and there
holds its corporate meetings. To say that the protection
which the corporation receives from the State of its origin
and doricile affords no basis for imposing taxes upon tangibles which have not acquired an actual situs under some
other j1irisdiction is not supportable upon grounds of either
abstract justice or concrete law. What is the protection
accorded these vessels at any of the ports to which they
temporarily go for purposes of business? What protection do they receive from the State or city of New York
other than that accorded to every other ship which visits
that port, foreign or 6domestic,. for repairs, supplies or
other business? Referring to a like claim of protection
this court, in Hays v." Pacific Mail Steamship Co., 17
Howard, 596, 599, said: "And so far as respects the ports
and harbors within the United States, they are entered
and cargoes discharged or laden on board, independently of

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. KENTUCKY.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

any control over them, except as it respects such municipal
and sanitary regulations of the local authorities as are
not inconsistent with the Constitution and laws of the
General Government, to which belongs the regulation of
commerce with foreign nations and between the States."
It has also been urged that the situs of the domicile
ofthe owner of a ship cannot be the situs for purposes of
taxation when it appears that the ship cannot go to that
situsi and it is here said that the ships of the Southern
Pacific Company cannot visit any port in the State of
Kentucky. The fact is not shown, nor is, it conceded.
The State has a port on the Mississippi, a great stream, up
which national ships of war have at times gone as high or
higher than the southern boundary of the State of Kentucky. But the test proposed is not one for which there
is any authority, and would but introduce another grave
element of uncertainty dependent upon the draught of
the ships and the depth of the water. Such a test might
exclude from taxation, ships, such great ships as the Olyrnpic, or the Lusitania, while smaller craft might meet the
proposed standard.
The facts which have been relied upon to. show an actual
situs of these ships in the port of New York have been
already sufficiently stated. They fall short of the facts
relied upon for a like purpose in Hays v. Pacific Mail
Steamship Company; St. Louis v. Ferry Co., and Morgan
v. Parham, already cited, where the judgments were that
they were insufficient to create a taxable situs other than
that of the owner. The facts shown by no means bring
the case under the authority of Old Dominion Steamship
Company v. Virginia, where it was held that the ships had
acquired an actual situs.
We find no reason for disturbing the judgment of the
Court of Appeals of the Commonwealth of Kentucky,

and it is therefore,
Affirmed.

