OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

222 U. S.

the service upon them of its ,process in whatever district
they may be found.
We conclude that the question of jurisdiction was rightly
resolved by the Circuit Court. and its judgment is affirmed.

Affirmed.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, EX REL. TURNER
v.FISHER, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 60.

Argued November 14, 1911.-Decided December 4, 1911.

Where, under the provisions of acts of Congress, and after a hearing,
the names of relators were duly entered as Creek Freedmen by blood
on the rolls made and approved by the Secretary of the Interior,
rights were acquired of which the freedmen could not be deprived
without that character of notice and opportunity to be heard es-

sential to due process of law. Garfield v. Goldsby, 211 U. S.249.
Notice to the attorney of such freedmen, given a few hours before the
hearing of a motion to strike their names, on the ground that their
enrollment had been secured by perjury, was not such notice as
afforded due process. Roller v. Holly, 176 U. S. 399, 409; Hagar v.
Reclamation Dist., 111 U. S. 708; Iowa Central v. Iowa, 160 U. S.
393; Hovey v. Elliott, .167 U. S.414.
In the absence of other controlling facts, the Secretary of the Interior
could have been required by mandamus to restore the names of
those thus arbitrarily stricken off without notice. Garfieldv. Goldbsy,
211 U. S.249.
But mandamus is not a writ of right. It issues to remedy a wrong, not
to promote one, and will not be granted in aid of those who do not
come into court with claen hands.
Although the petition for the writ alleged that relators were freedmen
duly enrolled and denied the truth of the testimony on which their
names were stricken off, yet where the answer of the Secretary referred to that testimony and alleged, "on information and belief,
that the relators were not freedmen members or members by blood

TURNER v. FISHER.
222 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

or marriage of the Creek Nation, and that their enrollment had been
procured by fraud," a detense was stated, proof of which would'have
defeated the right to a restoration of relators' names, even though
they had been improperly stricken from the rolls without due process.
Redfield v. Windom, 137 U. S. 636, 646; In re Sanford Co., 160 U. S.
257.
Where a general demurrer to an answer containing such defense was
overruled, and the relators, instead of replying, elected to stand on
their demurrer, the writ of,mandamus was properly refused. In re
Sanford Co., 160 U. S. 257.
To have issued the writ would have involved the useless thing of requiring relators' names to be redntered, and in other proceedings
having their names stricken because the original enrollment had been
procured by fraud, thus admitted by the demurrer.
31 App. D. C. 332" 33 App. D. C. 195, affirmed.

IN error from a judgment 6f the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia affirming an order of the loWer court
refusing to issue a writ of mandamus requiring the Secretary of the Interior to restore the names of relators to the
Freedmen Rolls of the Creek Nation, from which they had
been stricken: 31 App. D. C. 332, 33 Id. 195.
Mr. Chas. H. Merillat,with whom Mr. Chas. J. Kappler,
Mr. James K. Jones and Mr. W. D. Halfhill were on the
brief, for plaintiffs in error:
The case is controlled by Garfield v. Goldsby, 211 U. S.
255.
By approval of the rolls containing their names plaintiffs in error under the statute became entitled immediately to select one hundred and sixty acres of land and
to share in the tribal funds. The lands selected, plaintiffs
in error being unrestricted citizens, became immediately
transferable, divisible and descendible; a vested property
interest. The statute makes the rolls when approved by
the Secretary final rolls. It confers nowhere powers of
cancellation, statutory executive discretion having been
exhausted with enrollment. All subsequent executive acts
looking to cancellation were unlawful.. Atlantic Del. Co. v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

222 U. S.

James, 94 U. S. 207; Connor v. Croh, 90 Maryland, 686;
McWilliams Inv. Co. v. Livingston, 98 Pac. Rep. 914; Cornelius v. Kessel, 128 U. S. 456; Creek Agreement, § 28.
The statute declaied the rolls approved to be final rolls.
See Johnson v. Towsley, 13 Wall. 83.
It is stare decisis in this court that enrollment confers
a right-a property right or privilege: also that property
cannot be destroyed without notice and a hearing.
The notice given and proceedings taken by the Secretary in this case do not constitute due process of law and
do not constitute notice and hearing. Due process of law
in addition to notice and hearing also means a hearing
before a tribunal authorized by law to conduct the proceedings it undertakes; arbitrary assumption of a power
by a tribunal and proceedihgs by it without jurisdiction
are not due process of law, and where the tribunal has jurisdiction its action is not due process of law if it refuses
the accused a right to put in his defense. Hovey v Elliott,
167 U. S. 414; McVeigh v. United States, 11 Wall. 259;
Windsor v. McVeigh, 93 U. S. 277; Dent v. West Virginia, 129 U. S. 124.
By their demurrer plaintiffs in error did not admit fraud.
They admitted merely illegal and unconstitutional ex
parte proceedings.by Federal officials acting outside their
authority. They had sworn positively there was no fraud.
Their case differs from those mandamus authorities where
the plaintiff's own petition and statement admitted fraud
or the equivalent showed there was no legal right, and
-hence, a discretion in the trial court.
Plaintiffs in error having been given vested rights by
regular proceedings, must be made defendants before those
rights can be forfeited. Lalone v. United States, 164 U. S.
255.
By their demurrer they admitted that Secretary Garfield believed they were fraudulently enrolled. They admit he was informed that they were fraudulently enrolled.

TURNER v. FISHER.
222 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

They did not admit that his belief was correct nor that
his informatio n was accurate. They, in their petition, spe-cifically denied the same. Secretary Garfield averred no
personal information on the subject. All that he stated
was but hearsay or opinion. And it was hearsay or opinion
after the fact, the event, as he admits by not denying the
averments of the petition, and as the court knows judicially, he was not Secretary of the Interior or connected
witli that department of the Government when the names
of plaintiffs were stricken from the. rolls. 13 Ency. P1. &
Prac., p. 723; Harwood v. Marshall, 10 Maryland, 464;
Moses on Mandamus, p. 210.
Argumentative inferences in a return, or sworn allegations which axe merely constructive deductions, cannot be
treated as presenting distinct issues of fact. People v.
Kilduff, 15 Illinois, 502.
The authorities cited by the court below and relied upon
by defendant in error are all cases where fraud was admitted or made out by petitioners' own pleadings or the
admitted facts, or where parties were standing on a small
legal technicality opposed to manifest intent or justice
and, as a rule, where mandamus was granted, a public
wrong would have been occasioned without possibility or
practicability of redress. They therefore are not applicable.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Harr for defendant in
error:
Relators are not entitled to the aid of the extraordinary
writ of mandamus because their enrollment was procured
by fraud: This element of fraud distinguishes this case
from Garfield v. Goldsby, 211 U. S. 249-264.
. By their demurrer, upon which they have elected finally
to stand, relators admit the allegation of fraud, as well as
that they are not members of the Cherokee Nation. In re
Sanford Fork & Tool Co., 160 U. S. 247, 257.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

A court of law, following the rule in equity, will not
lend its aid by the extraordinary writ of mandamus to enforce rights fraudulently acquired. High's Ex. Remedies,
§ 26; Merrill on Mandamus, §§ 68-72; 2 Spelling on Injunction, §§ 1371, 1380; People v. Assessors, 137 N. Y. 201;
People v. Jeroloman, 139 N. Y. 14. See also to the same
effect: Commonwealth v. Henry, 49 Pa. St. 530, 538; State
v. Commissioners of Phillips Co., 26 Kansas, 419; State v.
Graves, 19 Maryland, 351; Macoupin County v. The People,
58 Illinois, 191; People v. Ketcham, 72 Illinois, 212; Borough of Ansonia v. Studley, 67 Connecticut, 170; People v.
Judge of Superior Court, 41 Michigan, 31; State v. Jersey
City, 42 N. J. Law, 94; State v. Home Street Ry. Co., 43
Nebraska, 830.
It is unnecessary to consider whether relators had sufficient opportunity to be heard in the cancellation proceedings. Having, by their demurrer, admitted that their enrollment was procured by fraud, and having elected to
stand thereon, they are not entitled to the extraordinary
writ of mandamus in enforcing any rights so secured, to the
injury of the Cherokee Nation.
Memorandum opinion by direction of the court. By
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR.

1. Where, under the provisions of acts of Congress, and
after a hearing, the names of relators were duly entered
as Creek Freedmen by blood on the rolls made and approved by the Secretary of the Interior, rights were acquired of which the freedmen could not-be deprived without that character of notice and opportunity to be heard
essential to due process of law. Garfield v. Goldsby, 211
U. S.249.
2. Notice to the attorney of such freedmen, given a few
hours before the hearing of a motion' to strike their names,
on the ground that their enrollment had been secured by
perjury, Was not such notice as afforded due process.

TURNER v. FISHER.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Roller v. Holly, 176 U. S. 399, 409; Hagar-v. Reclamation
Dist., 111 U. S. 701, 708; Iowa CentralRailway Co. v. Iowa,
160 U. S. 389, 393; Hovey v. Elliott, 167 U. S. 409, 414.
3. In the absence of other controlling facts, the Secretary of the Interior could have been required by mandamus
to restore the names of those thus arbitrarily stricken off
without notice. Garefield v. Goldsby, 211 U. S. 249.
4. But mandamus is not a writ of right. It issues to
remedy a wrong, not to 'romote one, and will not be
granted in aid of those who do not come into court with
clean hands.
5. Although the petition for the writ alleged that relators were freedmen duly enrolled and denied the truth
of the.testimony on which their names were stricken off,
yet where the answer of the Secretary referred'to that
testimony and alleged, "on information and belief, that
the relators were not freedmen members or members by.
blood or marriage of the Creek Nation, and that their en.rollment had been procured by fraud," a defense was
stated, proof of which would have defeated the right to a
restoration of relators' names, even though they had
been improperly stricken from the rolls without due process. United States ex rel. .Redfield v. Windom, 137 U. S:
636, 646; In re Sanford Fork & Tool Co., 160 U. S. 247,
257.
*6. Where a general demurrer to an answer containing
such defense was overruled, and the relators, instead of
replying, elected to stand on their demurrer, the writ of
mandamus was properly refused. In re Sanford Fork &
Tool Co., 160 U. S. 247, 257.
7. To have issued the writ would have involved the useless thing of requiring relators' names to be reentered, and
in other proceedings having their names stricken because
the original enrollment had been procured- by fraud, thus
admitted by the demurrer.

Affirmed
VOL. ccxxii-14

