ENRIQUEZ v. ENRIQUEZ.
222 U. S.

(NO. 2.)

Counsel for Parties.

one-half of the property while wrongfully withheld, and
this amount was subject to be reduced by charging against
it the one-half cost of administering the property, including disbursements for repairs, improvements, etc., during
such period. In other words, whether we look at the affidavit alone or whether we consider the record as a whole,
we think it is demonstrated not only that there is a failure
to establish that the requisite jurisdictional amount exists,
but moreover it affirmatively appears that such amount
is not involved.
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

ENRIQUEZ v. ENRIQUEZ.

(NO. 2.)

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.

No. 25. Argued October 31, 1911.-Decided December 4, 1911.
Where the record shows that the jurisdictional value is not made out
by a preponderance of evidence, the appeal will be dismibsed. Red
River Catle Co. v. Needham, 137 U. S. 632.
Under ยง 10 of the act*of July 1, 1902, c. 1369, 32 Stat. 695, this court
can only review judgments of the Supreme Court bf the Philippine
Islands where the value in controversy exceeds $25,000; and in this
case it does not appear that the value of real property affected equals
that amount.
Appeal from 8 Phil. Rep. 607, dismissed.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
of appeals from the Supreme Court .of the Philippine Islands, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Jackson H. Ralston, with whom Mr. Frederick L.

Siddons and Mr. Win. E. Richardsonwere on the brief, for

-appellants.
Mr. Allison D. Gibbs, for appellees, submitted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

MR. CHEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This controversy is substantially between those who
were parties of record in Cause No. 24, -just decided, ante,
p. 123. In this action the administrator and the majority
of the heirs of Antonio Enriquez assailed a deed of certain
property in Manilla executed by Francisco Enriquez as
attorney in fact of his father, Antonio, and also a sale of
the same property subsequently made to the wife of Francisco Enriquez by the person to whom he had previously
conveyed it, both the deeds being assailed on the ground
that they were fraudulent simulations.. The prayer was
that the deeds be held to be void and for a judgment
for rents and profits. The court of first instance having decreed in favor of the administrator, the defendants
appealed to the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands,
which court reversed the judgment and remanded the
cause for further proceedings.
Following a second judgment in favor of the administrator the cause was again taken to the Supreme Court and
that tribunal not only again reversed the judgment below
but entered one "acquitting the defendants of the complaint." This appeba was then taken, and a motion to dismiss has been made upon the ground that the requisite
jurisdictional value is not involved. Contemporaneous
with the allowance of the appeal there was filed in the
court below an affidavit of Rafael Enriquez, in which he
averred "that the real property the title to and possession
of which is involved therein exceeds in value the sum of
Twenty-five thousand dollars, gold coin of the United
States." Thereafter the appellees filed the affidavit of
A. B. Powell; chief of the real estate division of the Bureau
of Internal Revenue in the city of Manilla, whose duty it
is to fix the valuation of real property in the city of M\anilla to the effect that he was familiar with the value of

ENRIQUEZ v. ENRIQUEZ. (NO. 2.)
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

such real property. That the assessed value in Philifpine
currency of the property in question (land and improvements) was as follows:
For the years 1901 and 1902, 12,236.96 pesos.
For the years 1903 to 1907, 12,582.90 pesos.
For the year 1908, 12,192.60 pesos.
He also swore "that such assessed valiie was and is the
true value of the property during the time mentioned." If
both the affidavits be accepted, it plainly results that, considering the value -of the property alone, the requisite jurisdictional amount has not been established by the preponderance of evidence. But if the conflict between the
two statements be'resolved by resort to the record, then
we think it affirmatively appears that the requisite value
does not exist. At the trial the defendants introduced
proof tending to show that the -value of the property when
originally bought by Antonio Enriquez, as well as at the
time when it was conveyed to the .wife. of Francisco Enriquez, was materially less than the assessed value. Indeed, this proof tended to show that the building on the
property was in ruins at the time of the purchase by the
wife of Francisco and was therefore practically worthless
for rental purposes. This was sustained by proof that the
very small sum of $750 was attributed to the building or
improvements on the lot in the assessment of 1901. Despite this evidence, no proof then was offered on behalf of
the plaintiffs as to the value of the property except that of
one witness who expressed the opinion that the property,
at the time he testified, was -Worth about 16,000 pesog, or
$8,000 currency of the United States. The demonstration
as to the absence of the jurisdictional amount which results from these considerations is not changed by taking
into view the question of rents and profits. This conclusion is inevitable, since -even if the amount of rents and
revenues, that is, the value of the use of the property allowed by the court of first instance, be taken into account
VOL. CCXXII-9

OCTOBER TERM. 1911.
Argument for the United States.

222 U. S.

and allowance be made at the same ratio to the date of the
judgment appealed from, such Sum, when added either to
the assessed value or to the value fixed by the plaintiff's
own witness at the trial, would be much below $25,000.
On this record "we are clear," as was found to be the case
in Red River Cattle Co. v. Needham, 137 U. S. 632, "that
the jurisdictional value is not made out by a preponderance
of evidence;" and the appeal is therefore
Dismissed.

UNITED STATES v. ECKSTEIN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.,
No. 52.

Argued November 10, 1911.-- Decided December 4, 1911.

Section 7 of the Dingley Tariff Act of June 24, 189, c. 11, 30 Stat. 159,
known as the similitude clause, does not require that there shall be
similarity of material, quality, texture and use in all four particulars,
but a substantial similarity in one particular may be adequate to
classify an article thereunder.
Imitation horsehair was properly classified und," the similitude clause
witb cotton yarn enumerated in paragraph 302 of the Tariff Act
instead of with silk yarn under paragraph 3.85, there being a sub-stantial similitude with the former both as toimaterial and use, even
if not as to quality or texture.
167 Fed. Rep. 802, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the correct classification, under the tariff act of 1897 of artificial horsehair, are stated
in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Wemple, with whom Mr.
Martin T. Baldwin, Special Attorney, was on the brief, for
the United States:
The Government insists that no statutory similitude is

