OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

222 U. S.

CONSAUL ET AL, ADMINISTRATORS OF MOYERS, v. CUMMINGS, ADMINISTRATOR OF EDMONDS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 38.

.rgued November 6, 1911.-Decided December 11, 1911.

The law implies equality between partners and does not favor claims
of the survivor for services rendered after dissolution of the firm and
which lead to efforts to prove disparity.
Each partner i. bound to devote himself to the firm's business and
there is no implied obligation on the part of the other partners to
pay him more than his proportion for performing his duty; and this
rule applies to a surviving partner completing the business of the
firm.
While equity at times makes exceptions to the general rule that a
surviving partner is not allowed compensation for winding up the
affairs of the copartnership, this case does not fall within such exceptions.
A limited partnership formed by two lawyers to prosecute claims
against the Government, one of whom had already secured the
claims and the other of whom was to attend to the prosecution,
held not to be one in which either the lunacy or death of the former
would amount to a dissolution or entitle the survivor to extra compensation for prosecuting the claims after such events to a successful
conclusion, the partnership gains 'being payable in solido and dependent upon sicc'ess, and- the record showing that the deceased
partner did not at any time aid materially in the prosecution of the
claims and was not expected to.
A surviving partner of a law firm prosecuting claims under powers of
attorney from the claimants to the deceased partner cannot retain
the business individually and claim that the powers to the deceased
partner were revoked by his death; he must account to the representatives of the deceased partner for his share of the fees. If the defendant should have previously accounted, but wantonly rbfused or neglected so to do, interest is properly chargeable from the
filing of the bill.

CONSAUL v. CUMMINGS.
222 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

If a defendant did not except to a ruling fixing a date for calculating
interest on an account, and asked.to be allowed interest on advances
from- the same date, he is deemed to have acquiesced in the ruling,
and cannot complain of it in this court.
A curator and- administrator of a deceased member of a partnership,
who has no power of sale, is not chargeable with laches because
he waits until the surviving partner has realized the assets of the
copartnership before demanding an account. The interests of his
ward and intestate are founded in contract and cannot be destroyed.
by mere non-action.
33 App. D. C. 132, affirmed.

THE facts in these cases are fully set out in the decisions
on the various appeals reported in 17 App. D. C. 269; 24
Id. 36; 30 Id. 540; 33 Id. 132. Only what is material to
an understanding of the assignments of error need be now
stated.
George B. Edmonds was an attorney in Washington,
practicing in the Court of Claims. Under agreements to
pay contingent fees, and giving him power of substitution,
he represented a large number of clients, who had claims
pending in that court and before Congress. A schedule
was attached to a contract made in 1888 by Edmonds
with Gilbert Moyers, also an attorney, in which they
agreed " as special partners to prosecute these claims in
Congress and before the court." The fees and expenses
were to be equally divided. Edmonds also stipulated
therein that said "Moyers shall represent and be associated' with me in the prosecution of the said claims as.
joint attorney of record."
Edmonds was adjudged a lunatic in 1891, and Cummings was appointed his committee. There had only
been a few collections, and most of -the claims were still
pending at the-time of Edmonds' death in 1896. By virtue of appropriations made in March, 1899, Moyers collected a large amount in, May, 1899. Cummings made a
demand on him for a settlement, and Moyers several times
promised to make a statement, explaining that the delay

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

222 U. S.

was caused by bad health. Nothing having been done,
Cummings was appointed administratbr of Edmonds on
August 22, 1899, and on September 16, 1899, filed a bill
for an accounting. Among other things Moyers, in his
answer, claimed that Edmonds, in consideration of money
advanced by him in ignorance of the lunacy proceedings,
had conveyed to Moyers all his interest in the fees that
might be collected. This transfer he claimed operated as
a dissolution of the firm. The court ordered an accounting; Moyers appealed. That decree having been affirmed,
the case was referred to a master. He found that Edmonds
had not sold his interest in the fees and that the partnership had not been dissolved, but allowed Moyers credit
for the amount advanced in 1892. He found that the fees
earned aggregated about $26,000, and after deducting the
expenses and allowing Moyers credit for the advances,
found balance in favor of complainant, with interest
thereon, from September 16, 1899, the date Moyers should
have accounted. Moyers on the appeal offered no objection to this award of interest, but claimed that under the
same rule interest should have been allowed him on the
advances made in 1892. The Court of Appeals sustained
this view, and directed that in restating the account interest should be allowed Moyers on these advances from, say,
January, 1893, to September 16, 1899. On a subsequent
hearing the account. was thus restated. On a later appeal
the court held that, as Moyers had taken no exception,
this ruling was conclusive. The court also held that
Moyers was entitled to credit for expenses advanced in
claims which were finally disallowed by the court.
During the litigation other claims were pending in the
Court of Claims. But in view of the controversy over the
fees Moyers abandoned some of them, and on his advice a
few of the claims were put in the hands of attorneys associated with Moyers in business. They made collection,
but the master charged Moyers with the proportion of the

CONSAUL v. CUMMINGS.
222 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

fees thereon due Edmonds under the original contract.
Other claims were withdrawn by clients and placed with
attorneys not connected with Moyers in business. Congress passed additional acts of appropriation, by virtue
of which some of the other claims in the schedule were collected. These items were included in the master's final
statement of account. This was approved by the chancellor and affirmed on appeal. The case is here on numerous assignments of error, all of which have been abandoned except those in which Moyers' administrators claim
that (1) he should have been allowed compensation for
services after the dissolution of the firm; (2) that he should
not have been charged with interest from September 16,
1899, but only from the final decree of November, 1908,
when for the first time the amount due was made certain,
and (3) the refusal to dismiss the bill on the ground of
complainant's laches.
Mr. A. S. Worthington and Mr. Charles F. Cons'aul, with
whom Miss Ida N. Moyers was on the brief, for appellants:
The special partnership agreement between Moyers
and Edmonds was dissolved either by the adjudicated
insanity of Edmonds, in 1891, or by his death, in 1896,
and the utmost measure of recovery by the estate of
Edmonds would be one-half the reasonable value of services rendered by the special partnership prior to such
dissolution of the special partnership, less one-half partnership expenses incurred and less advances made by
Moyers to Edmonds.
The death of a partner dissolves a partnership. Scholefield v. Eichelberger, 7 Pet. 586; Burwell v. Cawood, 2
How. 560, 576. See also to same effect Davies v. Christian,
15 Gratt. (Va,) 11; Gratz v. Bayard, 11 S. & R. (Pa.) 41;
Knapp v. McBride, 7 Alabama, 19; Goodburn v. Stevens,
5 Gill (Md.), 1; Williamson v. Wilson, 1 Bland (Md.),
418; Griswold v. Waddington, 15 Johns. (N. Y.) 82; White

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellants.

222 U. S.

v. Union Ins. Co., 1 N. & McC. (S. C.) 559; Story on
Partnership, 7th ed., § 317; Parsons on Partnership, 4th
ed., § 342; Ames v. Downing, 1 Bradf. (N. Y.) 321.
The surviving partner is entitled to compensation for
special services rendered in realizing the assets of the
partnership after dissolution. Babbitt v. Riddell, 1 Grant's
Cases (Pa.), 161; Justice v. Lairy, 19 Ind. App. 272, 277;
Denver v. Roane, 99 U. S. 355; Starrv. Case, 59 Iowa, 491;
Rowell v. Rowell, 122 Wisconsin, 1, 24; Lamb v. Wilson,
3 Nebraska (Unoff.), 496, 505; 98 N. W. Rep. 37; Vanduzer v. McMillan, 37 Georgia, 299. See also Newell v.
Humphrey, 37 Vermont, 265, 270; Royster v. Johnson, 73
N. Car. 474; Zell's Appeal, 126 Pa. St. 329, 333; Maynard
v. Richards, 166 Illinois, 466; Bates on Partnership, § 773;
Schenkl v. Dana, 118 Massachusetts, 236, citing Willett
v. Blanford, 1 Hare, 253; Lindley on Part., 3d ed., 1034
et seq.; Story on Part., 6th ed., §§ 322, 343, 350; Cameron v.
Francisco,26 Oh. St. 190; Thayer v. Badger, 171 Massachusetts, 279, citing Turnball v. Pomeroy, 140 Massachusetts, 117; Robinson v. Simmons, 146 Massachusetts,
167, 176.
When Edmonds died he had no capital invested in the
partnership business. His powers of attorney and fee
contracts were r~voked and nullified by his death. The
capital could not consist of .his services because he was
dead and could render no services. His estate never
rendered any services, after his death, so his estate had
nothing in the partnership, or its earnings after his death.
Condon v.. Callahan, 115 Tennessee, 285, 291, citing
Brown v. Tastet, 1 Jacob, 284; Cameron v. Francisco, 26
Oh. St. 190; Newell v. Humphrey, 37 Vermont, 265.
If the surviving partner in a commercial partnership
happened to be a lawyer, and if, in order to realize on firm
assets, he had to bring suits and conduct them as an attorney at law, he would be entitled to charge the same
commission as any other lawyer would have charged.

CONSAUL v. CUMMINGS.
222 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

And see where- this -court intimates that in winding up
partnerships between lawyers and other professional
men, where the profits of the firm are the result solely
of professional skill and labor, the surviving partner may
be entitled to compensation. Denver v. Roane, 99 U. S.
355; Stern v. Goep, 20 Hun, 397; Os0ent v. McElrath, 68
California, 466.
As Edmonds' authority, conferred by powers of attorney,
died when Edmonds died, there remained no authority
vested either in Edmonds or his employd, Moyers, to
further proceed with his claims. Therefore Moyers after
the death of Edmonds acted under direct employment
by the claimants.
Any relation of employer and employ6 existing between
Edmonds and Moyers terminated at the death of Edmonds; Mecham on Agency, § 249; and see Gage v. Allison,
2 Am. Dec. 682; Merrick's Est., 8 Watts & Serg. (Pa.) 402;
Adriance v. Rutherford, 57 Michigan, 170.
It was error to allow any interest to the Edmonds'
estate on any sum found to be due as the result of the
proceedings had, from a date prior to the entering of the
final decree pursuant to the mandate of this court.
Interest is not properly allowable on running or open
account or on accounts which are unliquidated, or concerning which there is an honest dispute between the
parties, and is not usually allowable on partnership accountings until a balance has been struck. Gyger's Appeal,
62 Pa. St. 73; Clark v. Clark, 46 Connecticut, 586; Imperial
Hotel Co. v. Claflin Co., 175 Illinois, 119, 124; Pieser v.
Minkota Milling Co., 94 Ill. App. 595; Henderson Cotton Mfg Co. v. Lowell Machine Shop 86 Kentucky, 668;
Sweeney v. Neely, 53 Michigan, 421; Houston v. Crutcher,
31 Mississippi, .51; Holden v. Peace, 39 N. Car. 223; Dexter
v. Arnold, 3 Massachusetts, 284; Pengra v. Wheeler, 24"
Oregon, 532; Grubb's Appeal, 66 Pa. St. 117; Stearns v.
Mason, 24 Gratt. 484; South Caroliiav. Port Royal R. R.

268

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellants.

222 U. S.

Co., 89 Fed. Rep. 565, 574; Haskell v. Vaughan, 5 Sneed
(Tenn.), 618.
A partner cannot be heard to allege that the other
partner owed him anything, after dissolution, until there
'has been a "general settlement," which means the striking
of a balance.- Rogers v. Yarnell, 51 Arkansas, 198; Heald
v. Handy, 89 California, 632; Raymond Bros. v. Williams
& Chapman, 40 Iowa, 117; Williams v. Hersey, 17 Kansas,
18; Ory .v.Winter, 6 Mart. 'N. S. (La.) 606; Flannery v.
Anderson, 4 Nevada, 437; Edwards v. Dargan,30 S. Car.
177; Stamps v. Tenn. Co., 59 S. W. Rep. (Tenn.) 769; and
in Ryan Drug Co. v. Hvambsahl, 92 Wisconsip, 62; interest
was allowed, bu on the theory that the accounts should
be deemed "accounts stated," concerning which there was
no dispute between the parties.
'The bill should have been dismissed for lack of equity
in view of the "obvious laches of the complaiiafit. Baker
v. Cummings, 169 U. S. 189.
The silence of Edmonds' representative which extended over the period beginning with January 31, 1891,
and ending in the spring of 1899 -over eight yearsoperated to the. great prejudice of Moyers; operated in
its real effect, according to the courts below, to cause*
Moyers t6 carry with him as-a partner, the lunatic up
to 1896, and the decedent after that date. This is surely
unconscionable, and should not be permitted by a court
of equity. Abraham v. Ordway, 158 U. S.416, 421; McKnight v. Taylor, 1 How. 161. See also Cholmondeley v.
Clinton, 2 Jac. & Walk. 1; Kae "v.Bloodgood, .7 Johns.
Ch. Rep. 93; Decouche v. Saratiere, 3 Johns. Ch. Rep.
190; Prevost v. G-ratz, 6 Wheat. 481; Hughes v. Edwards,
9 Wheat. 489; Willison v. Matthews, 3 Pet. 44; Miller v.
McIntire, 6 Pet. 61, 66; Bowman v. Wathen, 1 How. 189.

Moyers, as surviving partner, after such a lapse of time
cannot even be charged as trustee if he were one. Badger
v. Badger, 2 Wall. 87, 96; Norris v. Haggin, 136 U. S.386.

CONSAUL v. CUMMINGS.
222 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

When a party relies on ignorance of facts material .to
his rights as an excuse for laches or delay in asserting them,
he must show why he was so long ignorant, and acquit
himself of all knowledge of facts which would even put
him on inquiry. Badger v. Badger, 2 Wall. 87; Stearns v.
Page, 7 How. 819; Ware v. Galveston City Co., 146 U. S.
102; Moore v. Greene, 19 How. 69; Beaubien v. Beaubien,
23 How. 190; New Albany v. Burke, 11 Wall. 107; Foster
v. Mansfield &c. R. Co., 146 U. S. 88; Godden v. Kimmell,
99 U. S. 201; Wood v. Carpenter, 101 U. S. 135; Hardt v.
Heidweyer, 152 U. S. 547; Hammond v. Hopkins, 143 U. S.
224.
Mr. Charles Cowles Tucker, with whom Mr. J. Miller
Kenyon. was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JushicE LAmAR, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
In this accounting of the affairs of a special partnership
between attorneys at law, the survivor claims compensation for services rendered after dissolution of the firm.
Claims of this sort are not favored. They lead to efforts to prove a disparity between the partners, when the
law implies equality. They necessitate a balancing of
the value of the work of each in securing the business and
earning the profits, as well as a comparison of the time
they may spend on the matters under consideration.
Each partner is bound to devote himself, to the firm's
business, and there is'no implied obligation that for performing this duty he should be paid more than his proportionate share- of the gains. Neglect by one to do his part
may be of such character as to justify a dissolution. But as
long as the firm continues there is usually no deduction
because one partner has not been as active as the other.
The same is true where death jgevents either of the part-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

ners from performing his contract. The law did not permit him to appoint a substitute, nor can his personal
representative, no matter how well qualified, assist in
winding up the affairs of the firm. Whether that be considered a right or duty, it is in either event cast on the survivor. In performing it he only carries out an obligation
implied in the partnership relation, and is therefore entitled to no compensation for thus doing what he was
bound to do and what would have been imposed on the
other had the order of their death been different. To allow the survivor compensation wherever he continues the
business would be to offer an inducement to delay the
settlement which ought to be made as soon as possible.
To this general rule there are exceptions, where, under
peculiar circumstances, the principles of equity entitle the
survivor to compensation. Thayer v. Badger, Admr., 171
Massachusetts, 279. Thus, where by authority of law,
or under a power in the will, the personal representative
consents that the business may be continued by the survivor, the estate must pay for such additional services.
Or, where without such consent, and at his own risk, the
survivor continues the business and niakes a profit, the estate is bound to allow reasonable compensation if it elects
to share in the gains thus made.
So where a member of a firm, by his voluntary act, dissolved the partnership the partner who continued the
business was allowed compensation for performing services in which he had the right to have expected the continued assistance of the other. Extra compensation has
also been allowed in a few cases where, in order to realize
on the assets, it was absolutely necessary for the survivor
to continue the business beyond the reasonable time allowed for winding up its affairs. See Justice v. Lairy, 19
Ind. App.. 272; Zell's Appeal, 126 Pa. St. 329; Schenkl v.
Dana, 118 Massachusetts, 236; Gray v. Hamil, 82 Georgia,
375; Beatty y. Wray, 19 Pa. St. 516; Cameronv. Francisco,

CONSAUL v. CUMMINGS.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

26 Oh. St. 190; Robinson v. Simmons, 146 Massachusetts,
167; Holmes.v. Higgins, 1 Barn. & C. 74. Then, too, there
is a suggestion in Dentrer v. Roane, 99 U. S. 355, 359, that
there may be "a different rule to cases of winding up partnerships between lawyers and other professional men,
where the profits of the firm are the result solely of pro.fessional skill and labor."
This point is not involved and on it no ruling is made,
because we are not dealing with questions between the
administrator of the deceased and the surviving member
of an ordinary law partnershiip, where the latter conducts
to a conclusion the business of the firm, under circumstance, where there may be a right from time to time to call
on the client for compensation for the value of services
rendered and even though the case is finally lost. Here
.the agreement related solely to litigation in which compensation was for success and not for the value of services rendered. Such payment was to be in solido, and the
partners agreed that the fees should be divided in solido.
Moyers insists, however, that the peculiar facts of this
case bring him within the other exceptions pointed out
above; that when Edmonds was adjudged a lunatic, in
1891- the firm was dissolved; that with the knowledge
of Cummings, who was acting as Edmonds' committee,
Moyers continued to prosecute the claims, paid out large
sums for necessary expenses, and, in spite of probable failure, rendered valuable services, which finally earned -the
fees now to be divided. He claims that in equity and good
conscience he should be paid reasonable compensation for
this work, in which Edmonds rendered no assistance.
Moyers put in his services against the claims turned
over to the firm by Edmonds, who stipulated that Moyers
should represent him, and-to that end "be associated in
the prosecution of the claims as joint attorney of record."
Edmonds rendered little or no assistance and apparently
was not expected to do so, for Moyers himself testified that

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

the contract was "an employment of me to attend to certain business for him in the Court of Claims in regard to
certain cases. It might be styled a limited partnership.
It was not a general partnership." In prosecuting the
claims and collecting the money Moyers therefore only
did what he contracted to do, and is not entitled to compensation beyond that set out in the agreement. That
these services extended over a long period does not increase his share nor lessen Edmonds' interest in the
profits. Under the contract, Moyers agreed to prosecute
the claims and could neither abandon thremwithout just
cause nor advise clients to put them in the hands of
others. If he did so, he is chargeable with the fees which
should have- been earned by him under the articles of
partnership. Neither can Edmonds' interest be diminished on the ground that the contract of employment by
the client was revoked by his insanity or death. They
made no such objection and apparently acquiesced in Edmonds' arrangement by which they were put in the hands
of Moyers. The survivor cannot retain the business thus
coming to him by virtue of a contract with Edmonds
without accounting for his share of th6 fees.
Moyers was charged with interest on the balance due
from September 16, 1899, when the suit was filed, being
the date on which the master found. he should have accounted with the complainant. Moyers contends that
what, if anything, was due was uncertain; that-it required
numerous referexices in order to properly state the account; that it was not liquidated until the final decree in
November, 1908, when, for the first time, the true balance
was ascertained, and hence that interest should only run
from that date. Interest is allowed by way of damages for
failure to pay money when it is due and frequently is not
allowed except from the time the amount to be paid has
been definitely ascertained.: But there are many cases in
which interest is charged from a prior date. Here the de-

CONSAUL v. CUMMINGS.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

fendant at first promised to make a statement, then contended, without substantial support, that the partnership
was dissolved because Edmonds had transferred his interest in the fees. He resisted the accounting, failed to
produce books, vouchers and statements proper to be
kept by a surviving partner. As the Court of Appeals
said, the delay and difficulty in reaching a conclusion was
largely due to his failure to keep proper books. Under
the circumstances the master properly allowed interest
from the date the bill was filed. Spalding v. Moser, 161
U. S. 375; Nashua & Lowell R. Corp. v. Boston &c. R. R.,
61 Fed. Rep. 237, 247. Moyers did not except to this
method of calculating interest; on the contrary, he obtained a ruling that on the same basis he'should be allowed interest from 1892 on advances then made by him
to Edmonds. He cannot now complain that the account
was stated in accordance with a rule in which he acquiesced, and the benefit of which he invoked.
In the last assignment, it is alleged that the court erred
in not dismissing the bill because of complainant's laches
in filing it. It is contended that after Cummings was appointed committee of Edmonds in 1891, he knew of the
contract of special partnership and that Moyers was prosecuting these claims, and not only made no demand for
a settlement, but permitted -Moyers to do all the work, incur all of the expense, and run all of the risks, Without
notifying him. that Edmonds' representative would claim
one-half of the profits. It is urged that such conduct was
inequitable and that to wait until eight years before filing
proceedings constituted laches which requires a dismissal
of the bill. We find nothing in the facts or in the relation
of the parties that made it incumbent on Cummings to
warn Moyers of Edmonds' claim, even if Cummings had
the full knowledge of all the facts which is necessary to
raise agy such obligation. Edmonds' right was rooted in
the contract, an4 has only been enforced in pursuance
voL. ccxx-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

222 U. S.

of its terms. Cummings had no title to Edmonds' property, but was a mere curator, with limited powers. He
could not have sold Edmonds' interest in these claims to
Moyers or anyone else without an order of court. For a
much stronger reason he could not accomplish the same
result and destroy Edmonds' right therein by a mere non-

action.

The fees were not collected 'until the spring of

1899, and within four months thereafter the bill for an accounting was filed.
The decree is

Affirmd.
UNITED STATES v. MORGAN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 463.

Argued October 19, 1911.-Decided December 11, 1911.

It is not a condition precedent to prosecutions for violation of the
Pure Food and Drug Act that an investigation or hearing be had
in the Department of Agriculture.
Where a statute provides for notice in one case and permits prosecutions without notice in another case it shows that there was no intent
to make notice jurisdictional.
Repeals by implication are not favored; nor is there a presumption that
a law passed in the interest of public health was intended to hamper
prosecutions of offenses against the statute itself.
A statute will not be construed as grafting exceptions on the criminal
law in favor of offenders against that particular statute-in the absence
of clear and unambiguous expressions.
Citizens are furnished the surest safeguards against malicious prosecutions by the Fourth Amendment.
Section 4 of the Pure Food and Drug Act of June 30, 1906, c. 3915, 34
Stat. 678, does not repeal Rev. Stat., §§ 771 or 1022, making it the
duty of the district attorney to prosecute all delinquents for crimes
and offenses cognizable under the authority of the United States, nor
does it limit him to prosecute only those offenders who have had a
heax ng before the Department of Agriculture.

