TITLE GUARANTY CO. v. GEN'L ELECTRIC CO. 401
222 U.:S.

Opinion of the Court.

TITLE GUARANTY & SURETY COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES, TO THE USE OF GENERAL
ELECTRIC COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.
No. 856. Submitted November 20, 1911.-Decided January 9, 1912.
Section 1007, Rev. Stat., makes the allowance of a writ of error, and
the lodgment thereof in the office of the blerk within sixty days
after date of judgment, an essential prerequisite to the granting of
a supersedeas. Nothing in §,6 or § 11 of the Judiciary Act of 1891
affects the provisions of § 1007, Rev. Stat., in this respect.
An order cannot control a subject to which it cannot lawfully extend;
and a stay order, granted to give the defeated party an opportunity
to apply to this court for certiorari, does not operate to extend the
time within which the writ of error must be lodged in order to be the
basis for a supersedeas.
There is a difference between a stay order for purposes of rehearing,
which prevents a judgment from becoming final, and one granted to
enable an application to be made for certiorari which does not prevent the judgment from becoming final.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Louis Barcroft Runk and Mr. H. B. Gill for defendant in error in support of the motion.
Mr. Russell H. RobSins and Mr. James F. Campbell
for plaintiff in error in opposition thereto.
i

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE. WroTE delivered the opinion of
the court.
The motion to vacate the supersedeas must prevail.
Although the writ of error was allowed and was lodged
-in the office of the clerk more than six months after the
entry of the judgment, the bond was approved to operate

as a supersedeas. Under these circumstances it is apVOL. ccxxii-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Opinion of the Court.

222 U: S.

parent that the order for supersedeas was improvidently
granted. No other conclusion is possible in view of § 1007,
Rev. Stat., making the allowance of a writ and the lodgment of the same in the office of the clerk within sixty
days after the date of a judgment an essential prerequisite
to the granting of a supersedeas. Western Construction
Co. v. McGillis, 127 U. S. 776; Covington Stock Yards Co.
v. Keith, 121.U. S.248; Sage v. CentralR. R. Co., 93 U. S.
412; Kitchen v. Randolph, 93 U. S.86.
It is, nevertheless, insisted, First, that this case is not
within the rule, because as the Judiciary Act of 1891
(March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826) by the sixth section
allows one year for the prosecution of error from this
court to the judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals
and 'n express terms fixes no period for the allowance
of a supersedeas, therefore, as the supersedeas was allowed within the year, it was in time. This, however,
ignores the provision of § 11 of the act of 1891, as follows:
"And all provisions of law now in force regulating the
methods and system of review, through appeals or writs
of error, shall regulate the methods and system of appeals and writs of error provided for in this act in respect
of the circuit courts of appeals, including all provisions
for bonds or other securities to be required and taken
on such appeals and writs of error, . . ." Hudson
v. Parker, 156 U. S. 277, 282. Nor would a different
result arise from the concession argumentatively that
from a consideration of the context of § 11 of the act
of 1891 the passage which we have quoted should be restricted to writs of error from the Circuit Courts of Appeals to inferior courfs and to appeals from such courts
to the Circuit Courts of Appeals. Nothing is contained
in the act pf 1891 regulating the time when an appeal
from a Circuit Court of Appeals to this court or a writ
of error from this court to such courts must be taken
in order to operate as a supersedeas. The general pro-

TITLE GUARANTY CO. v. GEN'L ELECTRIC CO. 403
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

vision of Rev. Stat. § 1007 under the hypothesis stated
would therefore be applicable. It thus results that the
mistake in allowing the supersedeas in the case which is
before us is equally demonstrated by the correct application of the act of 1891 as well as by yielding to the erroneous construction of that act which is pressed in argument. Second. After the entry of the judgment in the
*Circuit-Court of Appeals a stay order was entered in that
court to afford an opportunity of applying to this court
for a writ of certiorari, and such application was made and
refused. Upon this premise the argument is that as the
writ of error was allowed and lodged with the clerk within
sixty days after the refusal by this court of the petition
for certiorari, therefore, even under the assumption that
§ 1007 applied, there was power to allow the supersedeas.
But no power in this court to allow a certiorari under
the act of 1891 exists in a case where there is authority to review the action of the lower court by error or
appeal. This being true, it follows that the contention
is that the granting of the stay order to enable a certiorari
to be applied for operated to change the statutory time
fixed for allowing a supersedeas on error or appeal, although such subject could not have been lawfully contemplated as being within the scope of the stay order.
In other words, the argument comes to this, that the stay
ordet embraced and controlled a subject to which it could
not lawfully extend. And this consideration at once serves
to mark the distinction between the operation of a stay
order granted for the purposes of a pending application
for rehearing, since the pending of a rehearing operates
to prevent the judgment or decree from becoming final,
for the purpose of error or appeal, until the application
is disposed of.
As it results that the supersedeas was improvidently
allowed, our order must be and is,
Supersedeas vacated.

