OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellants.

22 U. S.

RICHARDSON v. HARMON, RECEIVER OF THE
TOLEDO TERMINAL AND RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 10. Argued April 25, 26, 1911.-Decided November 20, 1911.
In construing an act of Congress, the known policy of Congress in regard to the subject-matter 'f the statute will be considered.
The policy of Congress in enacting statutes in regard to the liability
of vessel owners has been to encourage investment in ships and to
that end to relieve the owners from liabilities that are not the result
of their own fault, negligence or privity.
Section 18 of the act of June 26, 1884, 23 Stat. 57, u. 121, adds to the
claims against which vessel owners can limit their liability and includes those arising out of the conduct of the master and crew,
whether the liability be strictly maritimeor from a tort non-maritime,
but leaves them liable for their own faults, neglect and contracts.
The owners of a vessel colliding by its own fault with a structure on
land can limit their liability for the damages done to their interest
in the vessel although such a collision may not be a maritime tort,
and the District Court has jurisdiction to entertain a petition to that
effect.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the statutes limiting, liability of vessel-owners, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Harvey D. Gaulder and Mr. Frank S. Masten for
appellants:
The District Court of the United States has jurisdiction
to entertain a libel or petition for limitation of liability of
the owners of a vessel against claims for non-maritime
damages or any claim for any liability or debt, although
not within the admiralty and 'maritime jurisdiction of
such court. See act of March 3, 1851, c. 43, 9 Stat. 635,

RICHARDSON v. HARMON.
222 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

§§ 4282-87, Rev. Stat.; § 18 of act of June 26, 1884, 23 Stat.
57; Act of June 19, 1886, 24 Stat. 79. These statutes
have been construed in The Republic, 61 Fed. Rep. 109,
113; O'Brien v. Miller, 168 U. S. 287, 303.
While under the act of 1851, it has been held that a
non-maritime damage, i. e., one not within the admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction in a direct proceeding on the
claim, could not be limited against, this court has never
so held, nor has any court so held where the cause arose
subsequent to the enactment of § 18 of the act of 1884, and
the question was considered.
The general maritime law gave limitation of liability
to owners of vessel property, to the end that merchants
might be encouraged to invest in maritime commerce.
The Rebecca, 1 Ware, 187; Norwich Co. v. Wright, 13 Wall.
104, 116; The Scotland, 105 U. S. 24, 28; The Lottawanna,
21 Wall. 558, 576; Providence & N. Y. S. S. Co. v. Hill, 109
U. S. 578; Ex parte Phenix Ins. Co;, 118 U. S. 610, 625;
The Maine, 152 U. S. 122; N. J. Steam Nay. Co. v. Bank,
6 How. 344.
The language of the act of 1884 is as broad as it can be
made, thereby showing that it was the intent of Congress
to remove all exceptions save those named in the prcviso,
whether maritime or non-maritime and whether created
with or without the privity or knowledge of the owner.
For legislative history of the act, see 15 Cong. Rec., pt.
1, p. 976; pt. 4, pp. 3650, 3970-74, 5440; H. R. bill, 2248,
and Sen. bill 1448, 48th Cong., 1st Sess.
Almost since a merchant marine has existed in any
civilized nation, the ship herself has been treated as a
sentient thing, liable for her own wrong in whosesoever
hands she may be, liable for her own contractural obligations and, under the general maritime law, the liability
ended with the loss or surrender of the ship and freight.
Tucker v. Alexandroff, 183 U. S. 438. Congressional records may be referred to to ascertain legislative intent where
voL. ccxxii---7

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellee.

222 U. S.

the meaning is in controversy. Ayer & Lord Tie Co. v. Kentucky, 202 U. S. 409, 427; The Delaware, 161 U. S. 459, 472:
Butler v. Boston S. S. Co., 130 U. S. 527, 554.
The statute being an adoption of the general maritime
law, the nationality of the vessel or the place of injury is
immaterial where the courts of the United States are resorted to. The Scotland, 105 U. S. 24; The Scotland, 118
.U. S. 507; The Great Western, 118 U. S. 520.
The District Court of the United States has authority
to give the benefit of the limitation of maritime and nonmaritime liabilities alike. Schuchardt v. Angelique, 19
How. 239, 241; The J. E. Rumbell, 148 U. S. 1; Davis v.
Child, 2 Ware, 78; The H. E. Willard, 52 Fed. Rep. 387;
The Hamilton, 207 U. S. 398, 406; N. J. Steam Nay. Co. v.
Bank, 6 How. 319.
Mr. George L. Canfield, with whom Mr. Frank H. Canfield was on the brief, for appellee:
This case is controlled by Ex parte Phenix Ins. Co., 118
U. S. 610, and the District Court has no jurisdiction.
The injury done by the "Crete" to the railway bridge
was not a maritime tort but a trespass to realty of which
there is no jurisdiction in the American admiralty. The
Troy, 208 U. S. 321; Railroad v. Steamship Co., 208 U. S.
316; The Phcenix Co. v. The Poughkeepsie, 212 U. S. 558.
Section 18 of the act of June 26, 1884, 23 Stat. 57, does
not enlarge the jurisdiction of the District Courts nor
bring non-maritime liabilities within the scope of the limited liability statutes. Rev. Stat., §§ 4282-89; 24 Stat. 79.
The argument of appellants requires such an interpretation of § 18 as not only repeals, as of its date, all laws
in respect of the liability and non-liability of ship-owners,
but also destroys the settled limits of admiralty jurisdiction.
Section 18 .applies to contract liabilities only and does
not affect the original law Qf 1851. This hAs beeh the

RICHARDSON v. HARMON.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

conclusion of nearly, if not quite all, of the courts which
have considered the question. The consensus of judicial
opinion is against the effect which appellants ascribe to the
later law and it is significant that, although it-has been
frequently before our admiralty courts, no authority appears to sustain their position. Towing Co. v. Trans. Co.,
155 Fed. Rep. 11; S. C. (certiorari denied), 207 U. S. 596;
Force v. Ins. Co., 35 Fed. Rep. 767, 778; Miller v. O'Brien,
35 Fed. Rep. 779, 783; The Carver, 35 Fed. Rep. 665,
669; McPhail v. Williams, 41 Fed. Rep. 61; Douse v.
Sdrgent, 48 Fed. Rep. 695; Whitcomb v. Emerson, 50 Fed.
Rep. 128; The Republic, 64 Fed. Rep. 109, 113; The Faxon,
75 Fed. Rep. 312, 318; Gilchrist v. Ins. Co., 104 Fed. Rep.
566, 573; The Puritan,94 Fed. Rep. 365; Rudolf v. Brown,
137 Fed. Rep. 106.
Congress intended to preserve the act of 1851 as to torts
and to cover contract liabilities by § 18 of the act of 1884.
The legislative history of § 18, so far as it appears in the
Congressional Records, cited by appellants, indicates that
Congress was satisfied with the earlier law and intended it
to remain in respect of torts: this view is supported by
the subsequent legislation of 1886; that it desired to give
a further limitation against liabilities arising. out of contract and so make the law as a whole afford protection
against both classes of- liabilities. And see The Ella, 8
Am. Law Reg. 206 (1858).
The law of limited liability of ship-owners is confined to
the subject-matter of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction
and does not extend to liabilities beyond. Goodrich Transportation Co. v. Gagnon, 36 Fed. Rep. 123; Re Gauntt, 141
U. S. 1, 12.
MR. JusTrcE LURTON delivered the opinion of the court.
The steam barge "Crete" while proceeding up the
Maumee River from Lake Erie collided with the abutment

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

of a railway draw-bridge, resulting in great damage to
both barge and bridge. For the damage sustained by the
bridge an action was brought against two of the owners of
the barge in a common-law court of the State at Toledo,
Ohio. Thereupon the owners of the barge, three in number, filed their petition and libel in the District Court of
the United States at Cleveland, Ohio, where two of them
resided and where the "Crete" was lying, for a limitation
of liability'under §§ 4283-4285, Revised Statutes and § 18
of the act of June 26, 1884, 23 Stat. 57, c. 121.
This petition duly averred that the said collision was
without fault upon the part of the "Crete;" but, if there
was any, it was without the privity or knowledge of the
owners, or either of them. It stated that the damages
claimed in the pending action at law were thirty-five
thousand dollars, and that they apprehended other actions
of like kind, and if liable as claimed, the aggregate would
greatly exceed the value of the interests of the owners in
the vessel and her freight. Therefore, the petition sought
the benefit of the limited liability act of Congress and the
right to defend against any liability as provided by general law and admiralty rule 56 of the Supreme Court.
Under this petition an appraisement was made of the
value of the "Crete" on the termination of her voyage,
and the value of each separate one-third interest of each
owner in the vessel, and her pending freight was appraised
at $4,171.50, for which value bond was made to stand in
the room and place of the boat and her freight. Monition
issued in usual form requiring every one claiming any loss
or damage "by reason of the premises," to appear and
make proof of their respective claims.
The appellees were also enjoined from proceeding with
the action pending inthe said common-law court, and they,
together with all the world, were admonished to bring no
other or further actions, and to file their claims against
the "Crete," or her owners, in the court below, that they

RICHARDSON v. ltARMON.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

might share in the distribution of the appraised value of
the said vessel and her pending freight.
The appellee, Judson Harmon, as receiver of the Toledo
Terminal Railway Company, owner of the bridge damaged
by the collision mentioned, appeared and excepted to the
jurisdiction of the court. This exception was sustained
and the injunction dissolved, the conrt holding that the
cause of action asserted in the common-law court of Ohio
by said receiver against the owners of the colliding barge
was for a non-maritime tort, not cognizable in a court of
admiralty, and that the limited liability act of Congress
did not extend to any such right of action.
Prior to the eighteenth section of the act of June 26,
1884, 23 Stat. at Large, pp. 53-57, it had been the settled
law that the District Court, sitting as a court of admiralty,
had no jurisdiction to try an a'ction for damages against a
ship-owner arising from a fire on land communicated by the
ship, or from a collision between the ship and a structure on
land, such as a bridge or pier. The tort in both cases would
have been a non-maritime tort and as such not within the.
cognizance of an admiralty court. The Plymouth, 3 Wall.
20; The Troy, 208 U. S. 321.
Inasmuch as the owner's liability was not limited by the
statutes providing for a limited liability, the pendency of
a petition to obtain the benefits of the limitation did not
operate to draw into such a proceeding actions for a
liability which could in no wise be affected by it. Ex parte
Phenix Insurance Co., 118 U. S. 610. Such was the law
and so it still is unless changed by the eighteenth section of
the act of June 26, 1884. That section is found in a chapter, the title of which is "An act to remove certain burdens
on the American merchant marine and encourage the
American foreign carrying trade and for other purposes."
The eighteenth section reads as follows:
"That the individual liability of a ship-owner, shall be
limited to the proportion of any or all debts and liabilities

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

that his individual share of the vessel bears to the whole;
and the aggregate liabilities of all the owners of a vessel
on account of the same shall not exceed the value of such
vessels and freight pending: Provided, That this provision
shall not affect the liability of any owner incurred previous
to the passage of this act, nor prevent any claimant from
joining all the owners in one action; nor shall the same
apply to wages due to persons employed by said shipowners."
That the provision is ,not as definite as desirable may
be conceded. The contention upon the one hand is that
the limitation is extended only to obligations ex contractu,
while upon the other, that every kind of liability which
might fall upon an owner on account of the ship incurred
without his knowledge or privity is given the benefit of
the provision. That it was intended to limit the owner's
liability in respect of debts contracted on account of the
ship is plain. But if that was the only purpose why add
the significant words,. "and liabilities"? The limited
liability act, as it stood, did not include the owner's individual liability for obligations ex contractu incurred
without his knowledge or privity. Neither did it extend
to his individual liability for non-maritine torts by the
master or crew. Was it the purpose of Congress to exclude
this kind of an individual responsibility, from the benefits
of the limited liability statute; while including every other
class and kind of individual liability, except :seamen's
wages? Is no significance to be attached to the fact that
the provision does not stop by adding to the former kind
of claims against an owner "any and all debts," but terminates the clause by inserting, "and liabilities," a perfectly unnecessary statement, if it was only meant to extend the limitation to obligations ex contractu? The
meagre debate which occurred upon this section of the
act,-an act which included many other matters concerning the shipping interests of the country,-if competent

RICHARDSON v. HARMON.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

at all, throws little or no light as to the meaning which
was supposed to be attached to liabilities, as distinguished
from claims arising out of contract. There does appear,
however, a broad general purpose to put a ship-owner in
the status of one whose risk on account of obligations arising from the conduct of the master and crew is confined to
his proportionate interest in the ship and her freight. No
purpose to repeal or qualify any of the terms of the existing
liability law is declared, nor is this section declared, in
words, to be an amendment of that law. But neither fact
is of any marked importance. If the necessary effect be
to repeal any part of the former law because of repugnance,
that consequence must be declared. So, too, if it be in effect an amendment of the law as it stood, by extending
that law to cases not before within it, that effect must be
given to it, without any unnecessary disturbance of the
qualifications or procedure under the former law.
The legislation is in pan materiawith the act of March 3,
1851, 9 Stat. 635, c. 43, as carried into the Revised Statutes as §§ 4283 et seq., and must be read in connection
with that law, and so read, should be given such an effect
not incongruous with that law so far as consistent with the
terms of the later legislation. The former law embraced
liabilities for maritime torts, but excluded both debts and
liabilities for non-maritime torts. The section under consideration includes debts, save wages of seamen and liabilities of an owner incurred prior to the passage of the law.
The avowed purpose of the original act was to encourage
American investments in ships. This was accomplished
by confining the owner's individual liability, when not the
result of his own fault, in the instances enumerated, to his
share in the ship. The same public policy is declared to
be the motive of the act of which this section is a part.
True, a liability may arise out of a contract as well as
from a tort. But a liability ex contractu is included ex vi
termini, and the addition of the words "and liabilities"

UCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

would be tautology unless meant to embrace liabilities
not arising from "debts."
In view of the manifest policy of Congress to further encourage the ship-owning industryand the very broad terms
employed in this last legislation, we can but infer that
the policy of the Government was to confine the risk of
an owner not personally at fault to his interest in the ship.
To say that Congress meant no more by extending the
limitation to any and all debts and liabilities than to inelude obligations arising ex contractu, would be to utterly
igriore the fact that such a construction would leave an
owner subject to a large class of obligation arising from
non-maritime torts, and leave nothing to which the words,
"any and all . . . liabilities" could apply. In Butler v. Steamship Company, 130 U. S. 527, 549, 553, the
words "'the liability of the owner
shall in no
case exceed," etc., were construed as extending to any
liability "for any act, matter, loss, damage or forfeiture
whatever, done or incurred," and as therefore providing
that the "owners shall not be liable beyond their interest
in the ship and freight for the dets of the master or crew
done without their privity or knowledge." Upon this interpretation of § 4283, it was held that liabilities of the
owner for injuries to persons were included in the limitation, as well as injuries to goods. Referring to the eighteenth section" of the act of 1884, which did not apply in
that case because the injury occurred before its passage,
the court said (p. 553), it " seem s to have been intended as
explanatory of the intent of Congress in this class of legislation. It declares that the individual liability of a shipowner shall be limited to the proportion of any or all debts
and liabilities that his individual share of the vessel bears
to the whole; and the aggregate liabilities of all the owners
of a vessel on account of the same shall not exceed the
value of such vessel and freight pending. The language
is somewhat vague, it is true; but it is possible that it was

RICHARDSON v. HARMON.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

intended to remove all doubts of .the application of the
limited liability law to all cases of loss and injury caused
without the privity or knowledge of the owner. But it is
unnecessary to decide this point in the present case. The
pendency of the proceedings in the limited liability cause
was a sufficient answer to the libel of the appellants."
Touching the wide purpose of Congress as indicated by
the various provisions limiting the ship-owner's liability.
the court, in the same case, said (p. 549):
"If we look at the ground of the law of limited responsibility of ship-owners, we shall have no difficulty in reaching the conclusion that it covers the case of injuries to the
person as well as that of injuries to goods and merchandise.
That ground is, that for the encouragement of shipbuilding and the employment of ships in commerce, the
owners shall not be liable beyond their interest in the ship
and freight for the acts of the master or crew done without
their privity or knowledge. It extends to liability for
every kind of loss, damage and injury. This is the language of the maritime law, and it is the language of our
statute which virtually adopts that law."
Neither is it necessary to conclude that the section in
question is a repealing act as to any of the qualifications
of the preceding limitations found in §§ 4283 et seq., of
the Revised Statutes. To so hold would be to attribute
to Congress a wider purpose than we have any reason to
suppose-that of extending the benefits of §§ 4283 et seq.,
regardless of the owner's knowledge or privity.
That would be to throw the section out of correspondence with the existing limitations.
We therefore conclude that the section in question was
intended to add to the enumerated claims of the old law
"any and all debts and liabilities" not theretofore'included. This is the interpretation suggested in Butler v.
Steamship Co., supra. That the section operates as such
an amendment of the existing law and riot as a repeal of

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

the qualifications found in that law, is the view adopted
by three Circuit Courts of Appeal, in the cases of The Republic, 61 Fed. Rep. 109, in the Second Circuit; The Annie
Faxon, 75 Fed. Rep. 312, in the Ninth Circuit, and in Towing Company v. Transportation Company, 155 Fed. -Rep.
11, in the Sixth Circuit, as well as by a number of District
Courts, among them being the cases of The Amos D. Carver,
35 Fed. Rep. 665, and In re Meyer, 74 Fed. Rep. 881.
Thus construed, the section harmonizes with the policy
of limiting the owner's risk to his interest in the ship in respect of all claims arising out of the conduct of the master
and crew, whether the liability be strictly maritime or
from a tort non-maritime, but leaves him liable for his own
fault, neglect and contracts.
If thus the owner's liability for a tort permitted or incurred through the master or crew, although non-maritime
because due to a collision between the ship and a structure
upon land, be one in respect to which his liability is limited and he applies for the benefit of such limitation to the
proper District Court of the United States, "all proceedings," by the express terms of § 4285, Revised Statutes,
"against the owner shall cease." The procedure in any
such case is prescribeq by the 54th and 55th rules in admiralty, where it is said that the court shall, "on application of the said owner or owners, make an order to restrain
the further prosecution of all and any suit or suits against
said owner or owners in respect of any such claim or
claims." Providence & N. Y. Steamship Co. v. Hill Mfg.
Co., 109 U. S. 578;-Butler v. Steamship Co., 130 U. S.527,
549.
The case of Ex partePhenix Insurance Co., 118 U. S.610,
which was a petition for the benefits of the limited liability
act and to stay suits at common law against the owner for
liability by fire carried to buildings on land communicated
from the ship, has been cited as holding that the limited
liability statute did not apply to such a claim, and that a

BRYAN v. KER.

107

Syllabus.

222 U. S.

court of admiralty could not draw to itself jurisdiction
over any such claim. But that liability was incurred on
September 20, 1880, a date antecedent to the act of 1884,
which act expressly excluded liabilities which arose before
its passage. That the decision by this court was not made
until November, 1886, and that the opinion makes no
reference to the act of 1884 is of no importance, since the
act had no application.
The decree is reversed and the case remanded for further

pioceedings in accordance with this opinion.

BRYAN,

COLLECTOR

OF. THE

PORT

OF

CHARLESTON v. KER, EXECUTRIX.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 3.

Argued October 25, 26, 1911.-Decided November 20, 1911.

Although a writ which the court has power to issue in a proper case
may have been irregularly issued, the marshal is authorized and
bpund to act thereunder if it comes into his hafids'as an apparently
valid writ.
Although the attempted delegation of authority may have been ineffectual to clothe the person signing a writ with power to do so, the
marshal is protected in executing it, if it is in the usual form and
bears the seal of the court; such an irregularity can be cured by
amendment substituting the signature of the person properly authorized.
If process in ren is apparently valid and it does not appear on the
face thereof that the libel on which it is issued discloses only a personal action for damages the marshal is protected in executing it.
A collector of the port cannot be held responsible for, detention of a
vessel because he places an inspector thereon with orders to detain
her if she attempts to sail, if at the time the vessel is validly in cus-

