WILLIAMS .v. WALSH.
222 U. S.

Syllabus.

court decided that the estate given to appellant was equitable and the estate devised to the daughter legal, and
that, therefore, the estates did not merge. It is admitted
that the estate taken by appellant is equitable; the contentions of the parties turn upon the character of the estate given to his daughter. We will not consider the
contentions, nor whether the rule is applicable to personal
property. We rest our decision on the ground discussed
by us.
Judgment affirmed.

WILLIAMS v. WALSH, SHERIFF OF CRAWFORD
COUNTY, KANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 79.

Argued December 5, 1911.-Decided January 9, 1912;

A classification as to time that is not arbitrary is not repugnant to the
Constitution. The Fourteenth Amendment does not forbid statutory changes to have a beginning and thus discriminate between
rights of an earlier ad later time. Sperry & Hutchinsonv. Rhodes,
220 U. S. 502.
A state police statute regulating sales, otherwise constitutional, is not
unconstitutional under the equal protection clause because it excepts from its operation sales made under existing contracts.
This court cannot take judicial knowledge of details of importations
and sales of a comm6dity even if it can take such knowledge of the
fact that such commodity is an article of interstatd commerce.
The writ of habeas corpus cannot be made to perform the function of a
writ of error, nor can it be made the means of obtaining a new trial.
The term "original package" as used in a state statute does not necessarily have the same meaning as when used in some of the decisions of this court.
A law cannot be declared invalid at the instance of one not affected
by it.
An article, such as powder, which is dangerous to handle in proportion
to the quantity handled, is properly subject to police regulation in

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

222 U. S.

regard to quantity from which harmless articles of commerce are
exempt.
The Kansas statute regulating sales of black powder is not unconstitutional as denying.equal protection of the law because it excepts
from its operation sales made under existing contracts; but whether
it offends the commerce clause cannot be determined in a suit in
which it does not appear that the party raising the question was affected in that respect.
79 Kansas, 212, affirmed.

THE facts; which involve the constitutionality, under the
commerce clause of, and the Fourteenth Amendment to,
the Constitution of the United States, of the statute of
Kansas regulating the sale of black powder, are stated in
the opinion.

Mr. Charles Blood Smith, with whom Mr. D. B. Holmes
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The act is repugnant to the clause of the Fourteenth
Anendment which prohibits a State denying to any citizen
the equal protection of the laws. Connolly v. Union Sewer
Pipe Co., 184 U. S.540; Magoun v. Illinois, 170 U. S.283;
Cotting v. Kansas City Stock Yards Co., 183 U. S.79.
The act is in direct conflict with § 8 of Art. I of the
Constitution of the United States, which declares that
Congress shall have power to regulate commerce among the
several States. Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419; R. R.
v. Husen, 95 U. S.465; Minn. v. Barber, 136 U. S. 315;
Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S.100; Wilkerson v. Rahrer, 140
U. S.545; Sawrie v. Tennessee, 82 Fed. Rep. 615; Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S.'1; Rhodes v. Iowa, 170
U. S.423; Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S.275; Robbins v.
Shelby Taxing Dist., 120 U. S.489.
Mr. John S. Dawson, Attorney General of the State
of Kansas, Mr. S. N. Hawkes, Mr. F. S. Jackson and
Mr. 0. T. Boaz for defendant in error, submitted:
Petitioner was not denied the equal protection of the

WILLIAMS .v. WALSH.
222 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

laws. The act applies to all persons similarly situated.
It covers every'sale and delivery made upon any contract
entered into after the law took bffect. It applies to every
person engaging in making any such sale or delivery. It
simply does not count as a violation of the law the completion of a contract to deliver made prior to the passage
of the law. It does forbid all similar sales and deliveries
upon all contracts made by all persons after the law took
effect, whether such persons had their contracts or not,
-or whether such persons had horses and cattle or not.
Warts v. Hoagland, 114 U. S. 615; Duncanv. State .ofMissouri, 152 U. S. 382; Eldredge v. Trezevant, 160 U. S. 469;
Lowe v. State of Kansas, 163 U. S. 88. The case of Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, has no application to the facts in this case.
Certainly black powder is a substance of such nature
that its careless handling under any circumstances is attended with serious danger, and this is particularly so in a
coal mine where work is done in darkness. The exercise
of the police power of the State of Kansas by virtue of the
act in question applies not only to the use of black powder,
but also, and more intimately and directly, to the conduct
and management bf coal mines, and we believe that the
courts have clearly and sufficiently accorded to the legislatures the right, under the police power retained by
them, to regulate both the subject of the handling of black
powder and of carrying on the business of mining for coal.
Foster v. Kansas, 112 U. S. 206; Consolidated Coal Co. v.
Illinois, 185 U. S. 203; Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100.
The question as to the extent of regulation should be
determined by the legislature, and so far as the legislature
has acted reasonably in its regulation, its laws should be
upheld. Jamisonv. United States Gas Co., 12 L. R. A. 652.
The act in controversy is not void as a regulation of
interstate commerce, nor is it in conflict with the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution.
voy,. ccxxu-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

The chief purpose of the law is to make coal mining
as safe an occupation as can reasonably be expected, and
that is the direct and primary, and probably exclusive,
.purpose of the law. The purpose is not to regulate the
handling of black powder as a trade or business or as a
matter of commerce. One of the dangers of coal mining
is the use of explosives, and this law simply deals with the
use of explosives in the coal mines, for the protection of the
mines and persons within them, and not for the purpose
of regulating the dealing in the explosives. Laws regulating saloons are proper subjects of police regulation,
because saloons, if allowed to be run without regulation,
are dangerous; and coal mines have been found very
dangerous and destructive to human life when not properly regulated and supervised. The State of Kansas considers this black-powder law one of very great importance
to the State and to thousands of miners who are daily
working under the ground in the coal mines, and it believes
that it has a right to so regulate the conduct of all persons
within those mines, or the property that goes into those
mines, so as to make them as safe as can reasonably be
expected without interfering with the proper mahiagement of the mines.
M .JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
A statute of Kansas provides as follows (Laws 1907, c.
250):
"It shall be unlawful for any individual, firm or corporation to sell, offer for sale or deliver for use at any coal
mine or mines in the State of Kansas, black powder in any
manner except in original packages containing twelve and
one-half pounds of powder, said package to be securely
sealed; said powder to be delivered by the company to the
miner at its powder-house, not more than three hundred

WILLIAMS v. WALSH.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

feet from pit-head, unless hereafter otherwise provided by
contract; provided, however, this act shall not be construed as in any manner conflicting with any existing contract of sale of black powder."
Plaintiff in error was convicted of violating the statute
by selling and delivering to one John Thomas black powder
which was not in an original package of 122 pounds securely sealed, there being no existing contract to sell between the parties. He was condemned to pay a fine of $50
and the costs of the case, and stand committed to -the
county jail until he should pay the fine or be discharged
by law.
In a petition to the Supreme Court of the State in habeas
corpus to be discharged from custody he alleged the ilegality of his conviction and that the statute was null and
void because in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment
to the Constitution of the United States and the coijimerce clause, and also with the constitution of the State
of Kansas.
His contentions were not sustained, and he was remanded to custody. 79 Kansas, 212.
Some of the contentions which were made in the state
court are abandoned here. "We admit," counsel-say,
"that the Kansas legislature had the right to determine
that the local conditions in the State required that black
powder should not be sold and delivered for use in any
coal mines in the State except in packages containing exactly twelve and one-half pounds, no more nor less; that
precisely that amount of powder was required to be sold
to protect the miners that are employed in the coal mines
of the State, and that the mere fact that courts or judges
may differ as to the wisdom of such legislation would
afford no ground for judicial interference, unless the question was in excess of legislative power." It is, however,
insisted that there is a limitation.of thepower of the State,
and that the law in question. transcends the power of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

State in that (1) it denies to plaintiff in error and other
citizens the equal protection of the laws, and (2) is in conflict with the commerce clause of the Constitution of the
United States.
We shall consider these objections in their order:
(1) The discriminatory effect of the statute comes, it is
urged,. from its first section, which directs that it shall not
be construed to conflict with existing contracts. "The
act thus recognizes," it is said, "the fact at the time it
took effect, May 27, 1907, of the existence of contracts"
for the aelivery of powder in other than the described
packages. "It is thus made unlawful," it is said, "for
some persons to sell or buy black powder otherwise than
in twelve and one-half pounds in original sealed packages,
while others may lawfully do the same thing."
We might, indeed, hesitate to assume, as counsel does,
from the possibility of the existence of a fact, its actual existence, if by doing so we should have to regard a state
law as unconstitutional, but as we do not think the result
will follow, we shall assume the existence of the fact. The
purpose of the statute is to provide for the safety of coal
mining operations, and if it may be said-that whatever
danger can come from packages of powder will come from
them regardless of the date of the contract under which
they may be delivered, there are nevertheless other considerations to be taken into account. The statute is criminal. A retrospective operation of it was to be avoided,
might indeed be illegal. At any rate, it was a matter properly to be considered by the legislature in distinguishing
between contracts made before the passage of the law and
those made after its passage. The former might not be
numerous, their evil would be temporary; and certainly
legislation which makes acts criminal which are done after
they are forbidden, and assigns no penalties to acts done
in pursuance of obligations legally incurred, is not arbitrary. classification. It is not necessary to do more than

222 U. S.

WILLIAMS v.. WALSH.
Opinion of the Court.

repeat what we have said many times, that a classification
which is not arbitrary is not repugnant to the Constitution
of the United States. We may add that "the Fourteenth
Amenlment does not forbid statutes and statutory changes
to have a beginning, and thus discriminate between the
rights of an earlier and later time." Sperry & Hutchinson
Co. v. Rhodes, 220 U. S. 502, 505..
(2) To make good the contention that the statute of
Kansas offends the commerce clause of the Constitution,
plaintiff in error refers to an amendment to his petition
that the powder sold and delivered by him was enclosed
in an original unbroken package, containing twenty-five
pounds of powder, imported from the State of Missouri
.by the Central Coal and Coke Company, of which company he was the agent and representative in selling and
delivering. And it is further alleged that black powder
has been and is put up by manufacturers thereof, and
sold and transported among the States in original packages containing twenty-five pounds.
It. is, 'however, admitted that proof of such. facts was
not attempted to be made in the justice's court. The
case was submitted in that court upon a stipulation that
the powder, at .the time of its sale and delivery, was not
"in an original package, containing twelve and one-half
pounds, securely sealed, and that then and there, there
was not an existing contract for the sale of black powder,
to be used in said mine."
Plaintiff in error insists that the absence of proof of the
facts which he alleg s is immaterial because, as heurges,
"this court will take judicial notice of the matter of common knowledge that black powder is a subject of interstate commerce." But plaintiff in error invokes a broader
knowledge, or, rather, a broader knowledge is necessary
to sustain his allegations.. We must not only take notice
that black powder is a subject of interstate commerce in
packages of twenty-five pounds, but of the more partic-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

ular facts that he was the agent and representative of the
Central Coal and Coke Company in selling and delivering
the powder, and that the company had imported it in the
package in which it was sold. What sources of knowledge
have we of such facts? It is true that the stipulation recited that Thomas' purchase of the powder was voluntary, and that it was sold to him "in the usual and ordinary course of business." Of what business, and whose?
It will be observed that the stipulation merely negatives
the requirements of the statute. •It follows the complaint,
and states that the powder was not sold in an original
package containing twelve and one-half pounds, and that
there was not an existing contract. How it was sold is not
stated. It is true the Supreme Court supplied the omission as to quantity. In answering an objection (the objection is not bnade here) that the law was invalid on account of its rigid requirement that a package" should
contain twelve and one-half pounds, neither more nor
less, the court stated that the sale in this case was of
twenty-five pounds. The court went no farther, and of
the contention that the statute was repugnant to the commerce clause of the Constitution said (p. 222): "The
final claim of the petitioner, that the act is in violation of
the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution, may
not be presented in this record, since the fact of the importation of the package from Missouri did not appear at
the trial before the justice." It was certainly within the
competency of the ceurt to refuse to consider the contention. The validity of the judgment against plaintiff in
error could only be determined by the defense he made,
not by the defense he might have made, and which he did
not evbn offer to make. We have often said that the writ
of habeas corpus cannot be made to perform the office bf
a writ of error. It certainly cannot be made the means ofobtaining a new trial.
It may, however, be said that the Supreme Court ex-

WILLIAMS v. WALSH.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

pressed its views of the validity of the Kansas statute under the commerce clause of the Constitution and thereby
ruled on the contention of plaintiff in error based on that
clause. We do not so understand the opinion of thp court.
It in no way, nor to any extent, modified its view that the
contention was not available to plaintiff in error or intimated that such view was not the basis of its decision.
Plaintiff in error, apprehending this, declares that it
is immaterial whether the package of powder sold by him
was imported, and insists that the act must be held to be
void because it must be considered "as applicable to importations of black powder from other States." The
words "original packages" used in § 1 of the statute
had, it is said, "a technical meaning well known to the
members of the Kansas legislature." In definition of the
meaning of those words plaintiff in error. cites certain familiar decisions of this court, and, from the definition given
in them of "original packages," deduces the conclusion
that the words were used in the same sense in the Kansas
statute, and .hence that the statute must be held as designed to prohibit importations of black powder in other
than 12 -pound packages. We are not impressed by the
reasoning. The act does not deal with importations, special or general, but only with sales within the State at a
specified place, and the deli- ery at such place of the powder sold in other than a prescribed quantity and in a prescribed package. It may be that powder is imported or
put up in the State in such packages. If so, it makes compliance with the law all theeasier. Or it may be that the
seller may compose the package, securing its integrity in
the manner provided by the statute. What the Supreme
Court of the State may decide in that regard we do not
know, for the point was not made in that court, and the
interpretation of the statute invoked.
There is another answer to the contention. A law cannot be declared invalid at the instance of one not affected

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

222 U. S.

by it, and, as we have seen, there Was no proof before the
justice of the peace that plaintiff in error was an importer
of powder. We do not wish to be understood as intimating that if such proof had been made it would have been a
defense. Powder is an explosive, dangerous to handle,
the degree of danger corresponding to its quantity. It is
subject, therefore, to a measure of regulation from which
harmless articles of commerce may be exempt. It is said
by this court in Nashville &c. Ry. Co. v. Alabama, 128
U. S. 96, 100: "Indeed, it is a principle fully recognized
by decisions of state and Federal courts, that wherever
there is any business in which, either from the products
created or the instrumentalities used; there is danger
to life or property, it is not only within the power of the
States, but it is among their plain duties, to make provision against accidents likely to follow in such business,
so that the dangers attending it may be guarded against
so far as is practicable." See further on the same principle, Foster v. Kansas, 112 U. S. 201, 206; Plumly v. Massachusetts, 155 U. S. 461; Austin v. Tennessee, 179 U. S.
.343; Asbell v. Kansas, 209 U. S. 251.
Judgme7t affirmed.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. REID.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME, COURT OF THE STATE OF
NORTH CAROLINA.
No. 487..

Argued December 6, 1911.-Decided January 9, 1912.

There are three degrees to whichl the State exercises power over commerce. First exclusively; second, in the absence of legislation by
Congress, until Congress does act; third, where Congress having
legislated, the power of the State cannot operate at all.
Although when Congress is silent, the State may legislate ib aid of, or

