OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

222 U. S.

statutes to which we have-referred was but the manifestation of abundant caution, and hence the absence of such
reservation in the statute under consideration may not be
taken as indicative of an intention on the part of Congress
that perjury.mnight be committed at pleasure.
Some of the considerations which we have pointed out
were accurately expounded in Edelstein v. United States,
149 Fed. Rep. 636, by the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Eighth Circuit, and in Wechsler v. United States, 158
Fed. Rep. 579, by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit. And this leads us to observe that the necessary result of the conclusion now reached is to disapprove the opinions in In re Marx et al., 102 Fed. Rep. 676,
and In re Logan, 102 Fed. Rep. 876.
It follows that the question propounded must receive a
negative answer, and our order will be,
Question certified answered No.

RIPLEY v. UNITED STATES.
UNITED STATES v. RIPLEY.
APPEALS FROM THE -COURT OF CLAIMS
ON RETURN TO MANDATE DIRECTING ADDITIONAL FINDINGS.
Nos. 498, 499.

Submitted May 29, 1911.-Decided December 4, 1911.

Wbhere the right of one claiming under a contract with the United
States depends on whether the government inspector acted in good
or in bad faith in refusing to allow the work to proceed, the -findings
of the Court of Claims should be specific in this respect; and if not,
the case will be remanded with directions to make specific findings.
Findings, which simply state that the inspector in immediate charge
of the work acted with knowledge, other inspectors being also referred to in the findings, and which do not make a direct and unequivocal finding as to the good or bad faith -of the inspector iugiv-

RIPLEY v. UNITED STATES.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ing the orders, do not conform to the order of this court heretofore
made in this case, 220 U. S. 491, and the case isremanded for further
compliance therewith.

T~m facts, which involve the sufficiency of findings of
the Court of Claims, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Win. H. Robeson, with whom. Mr. Benj. Carterand
Mr. F. Carter Pope were on the brief, for appellant in
No. 498, and appellee in No. 499.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General John Q. Thompson, with
whom Mr. Philip M. Ashford was on the brief, for the
United States.
MR.CHIEF JusTice. WHiTE.delivered the opinion of the
court.
Ripley recovered the sum of alleged losses occasioned by
the delay consequent on the refusal of the inspector in
charge of certain jetty work, being performed under contract with the United States in Aransas Pass, Texas, to
permit the placing of certain crest blocks on the foundation
intended to receive them. Both the United States .and
Ripley appealed. At the last term, when the case was
before us, it became necessary to ascertain how far the
findings of fact established the good or bad faith of the
inspector in refusing to permit the crest blocks to be placed
in position, and even upon the hypothesis of bad faith, to
determine whether Ripley had been so negligent in notifying the engineer officer who was in charge of the work of
the refusal of the inspector as to bar a right to recover for
loss occasioned by such refusal. Concluding that the findings of fact on these subjects were so inadequate and possibly so misleading as to render it impossible for us to decide the cause on the merits, our action was stayed and
the court below was directed to make and trangmit as
VOL. ccxxii-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Qpinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

speedily as possible additional findings on the subjects referred to, as follows:
"First. Whether, when the claimant was laying the
slope stones and during the months of December, 1903, and
January, February, March and April, 1904, as recited in
Finding VII, the inspector in charge knew 'that large
parts of the work done by the claimant had fully settled
and consolidated.'
"Second. Whether'in the various refusals to permit the
laying of crest blocks stated in Finding VII the inspector
in charge acted in good faith.
"Third. Whether at any time the claimant notified the
engineer officer in charge or the chief of engineers that the
inspector in charge wrongfully refused to permit the laying
of the crest blocks, and if such notice was given, whether
it was oral or written, when the .notice or notices were
given, and what action, if any, was taken by such superior
officer." *
[See 220 U. S. 491.]
The case is now before us upon additional findings made
by the court below in assumed compliance with our previous order. These findings are as follows: "(1) When denying permission to the claimant to lay
crest blocks, as stated in Finding VII, the inspector in
charge .knewfrom the time which had elapsed that large
parts of the core theretofore completed by the claimant
had fully settled and consolidated and were ready for the
crest blocks to be laid thereon.
" (2) The refusal of said inspector to allow crest blocks to
be laid at the time requested in said Finding VII thereby
unreasonably delayed the work and was, on his part, a
gross mistake. There is no other evidence of bad faith
on the part of the assistant engineer in immediate
charge.
" (3) There is no evidence to show that any protest or
notice was ever made to the engineer in charge (whose ol-

RIPLEY v. UNITED STATES.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

fice was in Galveston) .or to the Chief of Engineers (whose
office was in Washington) or to any officer other than the
assistant engineer in immediate charge of the work of inspection."
But when we again approach the duty of deciding the
case on its merits in the light afforded by these additionf
findings, we are constrained to the conclusion that they
fail to comply with our previous order, directing a finding
as to knowledge on the part of the inspector and an unequivocal finding as to his good or his bad faith.
A few words will suffice to indicate the reasons which
compel us to this conclusion. Thus, in the first place, while
paragraph 1 finds that the inspector knew, at the time he
made the refusal to permit the placing of the crest blocks
upon the foundations, that they had sufficiently consolidated to be able to receive the blocks, this is qualified by
the statement that such knowledge on the part of the inspector was but derived from the period which had elapsed
between the building of the foundations and he time
when the refusal to permit the laying of the crest blocks
was made. But this qualification causes the paragraph
to be ambiguous as to the existence or non-existence of
good faith on the part of the inspector, since there is nothing in the paragraph which directly or indirectly establishes that the mere lapse of time, in view of the nature and
character of the work, the materials which had entered into
it and the situation in which it was placed, which caused
it to be impossible for the inspector to have been in good
faith when he refused to permit the crest blocks to be laid.
And the same result arises from an accurate consideration of the second paragraph. This is true because, although that, paragraph ,tates that the refusal to permit
the laying of crest blocks-unreasonably delayed the work
and was a gross mistake on the part of the inspector, these
statements are qualified by the finding that there is no
other evidence of bad faith "on the part of the assistant

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

engineer in immediate charge," a qualification which necessarily co-relates the two paragraphs and again causes
the inference of gross mistake to depend upon the lapse
of time referred to in the first paragraph, without any
finding whateve? justifying the deduction that the lapse
of time, in view of the other proof in the case, excluded the
possibility of the exercise of an honest judgment on the
part of the inspector.
Again, while the third paragraph is clear when considered in and of itself, it nevertheless, when read in connection with the two other paragraphs, exhibits such an
inaccuracy of statement as may tendto mislead, and therefore requires to be corrected. The refusal to permit the
laying of the crest blocks, as shown by the original findings, was made by the inspector in immediate charge of
the work, and it was as to the good or bad faith of that
person to which our previous order was directed. Evidently, recognizing that fact, the first paragraph of the
additional -finding speaks solely with reference to the assumed knowledge of the inspector in charge, and yet the
second and third paragraph, by referring the one to "the
assistant engineer in immediate charge," and the other to
"the assistant engineer in immediate charge of the work
of inspection," may give rise to confusion by suggesting
that these two findings, by their change of language, refer
to a different person than the mere inspector in charge.
Concluding, for the reasons stated, that the additional
findings do not conform to our previous order, since they
do not make a direct and unequivocal finding as to the
good or bad faith of the inspector, it becomes necessary
that such findings be returned to the court below, to the
end that our previous direction may be complied-with,
and an order to that effect will be therefore entered.
The case will therefore be remanded for compliance with
our previous order.

