OCTOBER TERM; 1911.
Syllabus.

222 U. S.

choose. But it is also provided that "if no joint rate over
the through route has been established, the several carriers in such through route shall file, print, and keep open
to public inspection as aforesaid, the separately established rates, fares and.charges applied to the through transportation." There is nothing in the record to show that
there were such established separate rates and that separately established rates were published and kept open
for inspection. Indeed,,the record shows that a through
rate had to be fixed by the several carriers in the through
route.
It was only because of the obligation imposed by the
Hepburn Act that the railway company refused to receive the goods tendered to it and the agent of the company informed defendant in error that he was without
power to comply with her demand. He promptly acted
in the matter when the lines over which the freight had
to pass established a joint rate. He then received the
goods, issued a bill of lading therefor, "and the shipment
went forward to its destination."
The judgment is reversed and the case remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v.
REID & BEAM.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.
No. 80. Argued December 6, 1911.-Decided January 9, 1912.
Southern Railway Co. v. Reid, ante, p. 424, followed to effect that
legislation of Congress in regard to matters of interstate commerce
need not be inhibitive, but only to occupy the field, in order to supersede state statutes on the same subject. NorthernPacific Ry. Co. v.
Washington, ante, p. 370.

SOUTHERN RY. CO.. v. REID & BEAM.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

This case is controlled by and decided on authority of Souihern Railway Co. v. Reid, ante, p. 424, notwithstanding certain differences in
fact.
153 N. Car. 753, reversed.
THE, facts, which involve the validity of a statute of
North Carolina affecting common carriers, are stated in the
opinion.

Mr. Alfred P. Thorn, with whom Mr. John K. Graves
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error in this case and in
No. 487 argued simultaneously herewith (see p. 425, ante).
Mr. Plummer Stewart and Mr. Jno. A. McRae for defendants in error in this case and in No. 487 argued simultaneously therewith (see p. 429, ante).
MR. JusTcC
court.

McKENNA delivered the opinion of the

This case involves a consideration of the statute of
North Carolina passed on in No. 487, and was argued and
submitted therewith. The question, then, only is whether
the principles there expressed apply to it.
The action was brought by defendants in error, a copartnership, against the plaintiff in error, a railway company and a common carrier, for penalties under the
statute, which is set out in the opinion in No. 487, to-recover the sum of $50 a day for fifteen days for failing and
refusing for such time to receive a carload of shingles
tendered to the company at Rutherfordton, North Carolina, for shipment to one James Haddox, at Scottsville,
Tennessee.
The case was tried before ,a jury, which rendered a verdict for the plaintiff firm (defendants in error) for the sum
of $350, upon which judgment was duly entered. It was

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

affirmed by the Supreme Court, two of the members of the
court dissenting as in No. 487:- 150 N. Car. 753.
The statute is attacked on the same ground as in case.
No. 487. The facts, as recited by the Supreme Court, are
as follows: Defendants in error having received an order
for. a carload of shingles from Haddox at Scottsville, Tennessee, applied at Rutherfordton to the railway company
for a cat. It was furnished and loaded, shipping instructions given, prepayment of the freight tendered and a bill
of lading demanded. The agent of the company refused
to give the bill of lading or ship the goods, assigning as a
reason that he did not know where Scottsville was nor the
road to it. Defendants in error demanded that the goods
be shipped, and told the agent that they would pay any
additional amount found to be due, and requested that
when the agent got ready to ship to telephone them and
they would come over and pay the freight due. Another
agent "came to take over the agency, and being told, on
inquiry of plaintiffs (defendants in error), about the carload of shingles and what the trouble was," he asked for
instructions, which were given him, and on July 19th the
freight was paid, the bill of lading given, and the .shingles
shipped as directed, "arriving at their destination without further let or hindrance." Defendants in error testified that they had received no pecuniary injury by
reason of the delay, and that the first agent "still had
charge of the depot when the shingles were shipped."
There was evidence offered on the part of the railway
company that Scottville was an industrial siding on the
Knoxville & Augusta Road eight or ten miles out of Knoxville, established for the convenience of persons shipping
brick from that point, and that bills of lading for goods
shipped to and from that point were made out at Rockfoid, a regular station, two miles distant. It was testified
that since the consolidation of the East Tennessee & Virginia Railroad with the old Richmond & Danville, the

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. REID & BEAM.
222 U. S.

Opiniom of t6ie Court.

railway company (plaintiff in error) had paid all of the
employds of the Knoxville & Augusta Road their salaries.
The statute was attacked by the railway company in
its requests for certain instructions, the refusal to give
which was sustained by the Supreme Court. The court
intimated that, as had been held in a former opinion, the
commerce clause of the Constitution was not involved in
the case on the ground "that the penalty [under the
statute] accrues before the 'freight is accepted for transportation,' and on the principle applied in the case of Coe
v. Erroi, 116 U. S. 517." But the court, conceding, arguendo, "that the goods when tendered for transportation
to another State, as to matters involved in such transportation, and in reference to these penalty statutes,
should be considered and dealt with as interstate commerce," was of opinion that the contention of the railway
company could not be sustained, and concluded, after a
careful discussion of cases in this court and in the state
court, that the statute did not burden interstate commerce,
and that, "in the absence of inhibitive congressional legislation, or of interfering action on the part -of the Interstate Commerce Commission, the statute in question is a
valid regulation in direct and reasonable enforcement of
the duties incumbent on defendant as a common carrier."
We have shown in the opinion in No. 487, ante, p. 424,
that there need not be directly "inhibitive congressional
legislation," but congressional legislation which occupies
the field of regulation and thereby excludes action by the
State. Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. State of Washington,
ante, p. 370.
The facts in this case are somewhat different from those
in No. 487 and require to be noticed. The majority of the
court found that it did not appear from the testimony that
the railway company had not filed its schedule of rates
with the Interstate Commerce Commission to Scottville,
Tennessee, the court observing that it could "hardly be

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Syllabus.

222 U. S.

seriously contended that the difference between Scottville, Tenn., and Scottsville, Tennessee is of the substance." The court further said: "The presumption is
that the company has complied with the law. And if it
were otherwise, we are of opinion that the act of Congress,
and the orders of the Commission made thereunder, requiring the publication of rates, was made for an entirely
different purpose from that involved in this inquiry, and
does not constitute such interfering action. See Harrell
v. Ry., 144 N. C., pp. 540-541."
We have set forth in No. 487 our reasons for holding
otherwise.
Judgment reversed and the case' remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Mr. Justice LtrTON does not agree with the court as to
the facts of this case, and for that reason does not think
that it falls under No. 487. He, therefore, dissents.

TREAT, TREASURER OF COCONINO COUNTY,
ARIZONA, v. GRAND CANYON RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY
OF ARIZONA.
No. 86.

Argued December 8, 11, 1911.-Decided January 9, 1912.

Where it is inherently legal and protects private rights, the construction given a local statute by the Supreme Court of a Territory will
be followed by this court, unless there is such manifest error as to
warrant reversal.
In this case this court follows the construction, given to a territorial
statute of Arizona by the Supreme Court of that Territory, that
an exemption from taxation of certain railroad property went with

the land and extended to assigns of the first road.
12 Arizona, 69, 117, affirmed.

