OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellants.

222 U. S.

CURTIN v. BENSON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 1. Argued October 25, 1911.-Decided November 20, 1911.
While one must come into equity with clean hands, a defendant invoking the rule on the ground that plaintiff is praying for relief with an
improper object in view must establish that fact.
Even if the United States can exercise over public lands the powers of
a sovereign as well the rights of a proprietor, there are limitations;
neither can be exercised to destroy essential uses of private property.
To take away an essential use of property is to take the property itself.
Whether a power is within constitutional limits is to be determined by
what can be done under it, not what may be done.
It -is beyond the-power of the Secretary of the Interior or the superintendents of national parks under his control to limit the uses to which
lands within the parks held in private ownership may be put; and
so held as to regulations prohibiting grazing cattle on private lands
within the Yosemite Park until such lands have been defined and
marked by an agreed understanding.
Evidence, inadmissible generally but admitted by the court below for
a particular purpose, cannot be extended by this court beyond the
limited purpose of its introduction.
Qucrre whether owners of lands within National Park limits can be required to fence their lands, or whether the trespassing of their cattle
on other lands can be made a criminal offense.
Qvwre whether~an order of the Secretary of the Interior in regard to
park lands can be construed as extending to toll roads constructed
under authdrity of the State.

THE facts, which involve the validity of rules made by
the Secretary of the Interior in regard to grazing cattle
on private lands within the limits of Yosemite Park, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr.William C. Prentiss,with whom Mr. Marshall H.
Woodworth and Mr. J. B. Curtin in propria personam
were on the brief ,for appellants:
The Department of the Interior has no right to make or
enforce any rules respecting the use of private property or

CURTIN v. BENSON.
222 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

public toll roads within the State of Califorma, for that
State has not ceded to the United States its political
jurisdiction over the Yosemite Park. The United States
is simply an ordinarr proprietor. Lowe v. Railroad Co.,
114 U. S.525; Chicago &c. Ry. Co. v. McGlinn, 114 U. S.
542; Van B~ocklin v. Tennessee, 117 U. S. 151, 167; Palmer
v. Barrett,162 U. S. 399; Sharon v. Hill, 24 Fed. Rep. 726,
731; In re Ladd,74 Fed. Rep. 35; State v. Mack, 23 Nevada,
363; United States v. Meagher, 37 Fed. Rep. 878; Crook v.
Old Point Hotel, 54 Fed. Rep. 608; In re Kelly, 71 Fed.
Rep. 549; United States v. Partello, 48 Fed. Rep. 677;
Benson v. United States, 146 U. S. 330.
However commendable the rules and regulations may
be to protect and preserve the Park, and legal as to it,
they can have no effect on or as to lands owned by private
citizens or as to public roads of the State.
The right of way for the construction of highways over
public lands not reserved for public uses is granted by
§ 2477, Rev. Stat., but every highway leading through the
Park was constructed prior to creation of the Park and
the lands within the park have not been reserved for public uses. The right to regulate highways is a police power
atid reserved in the State. N. 0. Gas Co. v. Louisiana
Lighting Cl,-115 U. S. 650; Jones v. Brin, 165 U. S. 182;
Pattersonv. Kentucky, 97 U. S. 501.
The polic6 power-the right to administer their own
internal affairs-was reserved to the States, Mugler v.
Kansas, 123 U. S. 623; Railway Co. v. Mackey, 127 U. S.
205; Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366; St. Louis &c. R. Co.
v. Paul, 173 U. S. 404; Tullis v. Railway Co., 175 U. S.
348; Gundling v. Chicago, 177- U. S. 183; Knoxville Iron
Co. v. Harbison, 183 U. S. 13; Atkins v. Kansas, 191 U. S.
207; Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11; Minnesota
Iron Co. v. Kline, 199 U. 5. 593; Western Turf Assn. v.
V-reenberg, 204 U. S. 359; nor do the Thirteenth, Fourteenth
and Fifteenth Amendments impair the supremacy of this

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appillee.

222 U. S.

power. Barbierv. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27; Hodges v. United
States, 203 U. S. 6.
Parks are not instruments of government; neither can the
Federal Government exercise within the limits of a State
any power or authority which is not incident to some power
delegated to the Federal Government. Kohl v. United
States, 91 U. S. 367; United States v. Fox, 94 U. S. 315;
Van Brocklin v. Tennessee, 117 U. S. 151; Cherokee Nation
v. Southern Kansas Railway, 135 U. S. 641; Shoemaker v.
United States, 147 U. S. 282.
Even if. the Federal Government had authority to make
any regulations, they must be police regulations, and cannot be valid unless it appear from their face that their
enactment was for the protection of the health, safety, or
comfort .of the public. These rules are unwarranted and
arbitrary prohibitions, and as such are unreasonable and
void. Hume v. Laurel Hill Cemetery, 142 Fed. Rep. 552.
Mr. Assistant Attorney GeneralHarrfor appellee:
The regulations and action taken for their enforcement
were authorized by law. Act of October 1, 1890, § 2, 26
Stat. 650. They were reasonable, and necessary, and were
promulgated to save the Park. United States v. Shannbn,
151 Fed. Rep. 863; Act of June 6, 1900, 31 Stat. 618.
The United States has all the rights that inhere in
sovereignty, consistent with the Constitution for its preservation and protection and the furtherance of its ends.
The rights and powers of the United States over the
public lands within the limits and general jurisdiction of
a State are very different from those of an individual
proprietor. The individual must look to the State for
the punishment of trespassers upon his property, but the
United States is not dependent upon the state governments for such protection. It may itself prohibit and
punish trespasses upon the public lands. Jourdan v.
Barrett, 4 How. 168; Gibson v. Chouteau, 13 Wall. 92, 99.

CURTIN v. BENSON.
222 U. S.

Argument for.Appellee.

Congress has made it offenses or trespass against the
United States to cut timber on the public lands, §§ 2461,
5388, Rev. Stat., as amended by act of June 4, 1888, 25
Stat. 166; Act of March 3, 1875, c. 151, 18 Stat. 481; United
States v. Cleveland Cattle Co., 33 Fed. Rep. 323; and see, as
to power 6f the Government, Debs Case, 158 U. S. 564; Ex
parte Siebold, 100 U. S. 371, 395; In re Neagle, 135 U. S.
1; Camfield v. United States, 167 U. S. 518, 525.
The power of the Federal Government with respect
to its property in the States is analogous to the police
power of the States. Light v. United States, 220 U. S.
506, 537.
To hold that the Federal Government is without power
to protect the Government lands in the Yosemite National
Park, by imposing a reasonable restraint upon the action
of owners of private lands within the Park, is to make the
rights and interests of the United States dependent upon
state action, which is contrary tothe supremacy of the Federal Government asserted in the Constitution. McCulloch
v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. *422; United States v. Gettysburg
Ry. Co., 160 U. S. 668.
The Federal Government may condemn land within
a: State for the purpose of establishing a national park,
and also ha§ the power to set aside and reserve its own
lands for such a purpose. It has the constitutional authority to regulate the use of private lands within the Park
so as to prevent injury to the public lands and the defeat
of the objects in view.
There is no difference in principle between the appellant's lands and the toll roads in respect to the authority
of the Federal Government to control their use so far as
necessary for the proper protection of the park lands.
Whether such roads, having been constructed under the
authority of Section 2477 of the Revised Statutes are
mere easements, as has heretofore been held (21 Land
Dec. 351, 354; Smith v. Townsend, 148 U. S. 490, 498), or
VOL. cc xxii-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

whether the fee has passed out of the United States, isinmaterial. The United States has as much, if not greater,
right to regulate the use of such roads for the protection
of its own lands, as it has lands owned by private individuals within the Park.
Appellant is not entitled to the aid of a court of equity
as the record shows that he has willfully permitted his
c&ttle to trespass upon the park lands.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
This suit was brought in the Superior Court of Tuolumne
County, State of California, against the appellee, Benson,
and others, who were soldiers .under Benson, to enjoin
them from driving appellant's stock from his lands or
by any means interfering with them, and from preventing
,appellant driving his stock to his lands over certain toll
roads. The case was removed to the United States Circuit
Court for the Northern District of California where, after
hearing, final judgment was rendered dismissing the bill
of complaint.
The facts as agreed to, and established by evidence.
supplementing the agreement, are as follows: Abpellant
is the owner of certain lands within the Yosemite National
Park (the Park was xegularly and legally established,
Act October 1, 1890, 26 St. 650, c. 1263; Joint Res.
June 11, 1906, 34 St. 831) and lessee of other lands therein.
Leading to the lands there-are certain toll roads, which
were established many years prior to the creation of the
Park.
Appellee Benson is a captain in the United States Army
and Superintendent of the Park, and, as such, it was and
is his duty to enforce the rules and regulations prescribed
by the Secretary of the Interior for the government of
the Park, and for this purpose he has a budy of troops
under his command.

CURTIN v. BENSON.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The Secretary established and promulgated the following rules:
"9. Owners of patented lands within the park limits
are entitled to the full use and enjoyment thereof; such
lands, however, shall "have the metes and bounds thereof
so marked and defined as that they may be readily distinguished from the park lands. Stock may be taken"
over the park lands to patented lands with the written
permission and under the supervision of the superintendent.
"10. The herding or grazing of loose stock or cattle
of any kind on the Government lands in the paric, as well
as the driving of such stock or cattle over the same, is
strictly forbidden, except in such cases where authority
therefor is granted by the superintendent."
Appellant claims the right,- without complying with
these rules, to drive his cattle over the toll roads and to
graze them on his lands. On one occasion appellant
placed cattle on his lands, and appellee Benson immediately removed them, and refused to allow them to be
grazed thereon until appellant complied with the rules;
and, prior to the commencement of the suit, refused to
allow appellant to drive his cattle over the toll roads to
his lands or to use the lands until he complied with the
rules.
The testimony gave some particularity to the facts as
agreed to. It appeared that appellant has within the Park
a few hundred acres, and, it may be inferred, 23,000 acres
in the vicinity. He asserted that he had not compiedl
with the regulations, and did not intend to do so until
required. And it was admitted that the largest part of
the land was unfenced.
The following from the report of the Superintendent'
of the Park to the Secretary of the Interior for the year
1901 was put in evidence: "After due consideration, based
upon the best evidence I have been able to obtain, I can

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

see no objection to property owners and those holding
leased land within the park limits grazing cattle near
their own premises under the supervision of the park
authorities."
Testimony was introduced on the part of appellees
(their counsel expressing a doubt of its admissibility) "to
show [that] the regulation is a reasonable one, and the
reason for it, and what effect will be produced If the regulation is not carried out." To the offer cou'nsel for appellant
replied that he denied the power of the Secretary. "It
is simply a question of his power," ha said, and stated
that if defeated on that point he could show that the
rules were not reasonable under the circumstances. The
court, saying that it understood, heard the evidence,
which was to the following effect: Appellee Benson had
been Superintendent of the Park since April 10, 1905,
and on duty there for several years prior to that time.
Numerous people claimed land in the park as their ranges,
and a number of them had the places surrounded by
fences, "sometimes enclosing -nstead of 160 acres which
they had as high as several thousand acres of land."
They drove their cattle to the so-called ranges and immediately let them loose, and they strayed throughout
the entire reservation. "Senator Curtin's cattle have
been in that condition for a great many years." This
he (Benson) knew of his personal knowledge, because he
was present at the time and had a correspondence with
Mr. Curtin as far back as 1895, 1896 and 1897. He further
testified that he was detailed on special duty to ascertain
private land claims in the Park, the object being to ascertain who owned land "and somewhere about where it
lay;" that he did some surveying and found that a great
many people-"Mr. Curtin, for instance"-had fenced
more land than they were entitled to, had paid no attention to their own lines, had tracts of land inclosed upon
which their cattle did not stay for more than three or four

CURTIN v. BENSON.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

days, "but proceeded out to the rest of the park, so a
regulation was ordered that they point out their metes
and bounds, for this reason: though we might know
absolutely where they were," they would claim the cattle
to be on their lands. If the metes and bounds were fixed
by an "agreed understanding" it could be definitely
known whether they were within or without the claim.
He further testified that the whole place had been overrun
with cattle, and that the object of the regulations was
"to keep people to the use of their own land and keep the
Government land from being interfered with." He did
not attempt to prevent Curtin from using his land, provided he complied with the regulations, but he did remove
cattle from Curtin's land on the ground that he had not
complied with the regulations.
He testified further that he permitted Curtin to pasture
his cattle on his land after he (Curtin) had it surveyed,
but refused Curtin permission to fence according to the
survey, the correctness of the survey being disputed.
It is objected by the Government that appellant is not
entitled to the relief he prays because he does not come
into court with clean hands. It is urged as a ground of
the charge that the testimony exhibits his purpose to be
to use his lands as a basis, and the toll roads as a means,
to make wholesale trespasses upon the park lands. If
the fact were established it might be hard to resist its
effect, but it is not established. The evidence cited in
support of it, and of which we have given the substance,
refers to a period anterior to the time when this controversy arose. Indeed, anterior to the time when the
regulations were established by the Secretary of the Interior, which was April 22, 1905, and the object of- the
testimony was to account for the regulations, and not to
show the special and immediate justification of Benson's
orde:-s. We cannot now extend the evidence beyond the
special and limited purpose of its introduction. We do

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

not think the case, as it wAs submitted to the Circuit
Court, showed the ilterior purpose on the part of appellant to be a wilful trespass upon the lands of the Park, but
to be an honest assertion of rights.
On the merits of the case we may concede, arguendo,
as contended by the appellees and disputed by appellant,
that the United States may exercise over the Park not
only rights of a proprietor but the powers of a sovereign.
There are limitations, however, upon both. Neither can
be exercised to destroy essential uses of private property.
The right of appellant to pasture his cattle upon his land
and the right of access to it are of the very essence of his
proprietorship. May conditions be put upon their exercise such as appellees put upon them? In answeing the
question we shall assume, for the time being, that Benson
has interpreted correctly the regulations of the Secretary
of the Interior. His (Benson's) order is not, it will be
observed, a regulation of the use of the land, as an order
to fence the lands might be, but is an absolute prohibition
of use. It is not a prevention of a misuse or illegal use
but the prevention of a legal and essential use, an attribute
of its ownership, one which goes to make up its essence
and value. To take it away is practically to take his
property away, and to do that is beyond the power even
of goveieignty, except by proper proceedings to that end.
A law requiring an owner in appellant's situation to
fence his lad might be within such power, though of
that we are not required to express an opinion. A law
making the trespass of his cattle on other lands a criminal
offense might be within such power. Such laws might be
considered as strictly regulations of the use of property,
of so using it thaz no injury could result to others. They
would have the effect of making the owner of land herd
his cattle on his own land and of making him responsible
for a neglect of it.
_ We have asst med so far that Benson has exercised a

CURTIN v. BENSON.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

power in accordance with the rules prescribed by the
Secretary of the Interior. This, however, may be questioned. The orders of Benson are-not that Curtin mark
and define his lands, but that he. do so "by an agreed
understanding" with him (Benson), so that there could
be no subsequent controversy -about their boundaries.
But this gives to Benson power to force a concession to
his "understanding" and to require Curtin to submit to
a limitation of the area of his land or a limitation of its
uses. It is no answer to say that the power w6uld not be
arbitrarily or unreasonably exercised. It must be judged
.by what can be done under it, not by what may be done
under it.
It may be doubted, too, -if
the rules prescribed by the
Secretary of the Interior warranted Benson's order in
regard to the toll roads. The rules did not deal with the
toll roads at all. They do deal with "park lands" and
authorize stock to be taken over them by the "writtei
permission and under the supervision of- the superintendent." But even if it be held to apply to the toil
roads, it is manifestly but a regulation of the transit o
the stock merely, and hlot a use of the roads as a condition
of the performance of something else.
We, however, rest our decision on the ground of the
want of power of the Secretary or the superintendent to
limit the uses to which lands in the Park held in private
ownership may be put.
Decree reversed and cause remanded for further proceedings in accordancewith this opinion.

