OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for the United States.

222 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. BALTIMORE AND OHIO
SOU(IHWESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY.
-ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 464.

Argued October 19, 1911.-Decided October 30, 1911.

Courts are not inclined to make constructive crimes, and in this case the
general rule that penal statutes must be strictly construed applies.
If there be ambiguity, the character of the statute determines for
strict or liberal construction, but where there is no ambiguity the
words of the statute are the measure of its meaning.
A penal statute should not be construed as confounding unwillful with
willful acts by uniting in criminality and penalties parties to whom
no notice need be given with those to whom notice must be given.
The provisions of ยง 2 of the act of March 3, 1905, 33 Stat. 1264, c. 1496,
forbidding receipt for transportation of live stock from quarantined
points in any State or Territory into any other State or Territory,
do not apply to the receipt of live stock by a connecting carrier
for transportation wholly within the State in which it is received,
even though the shipment originated at a quarantined point in
another State.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the Cattle
Quarantine Act of March 3, 1905, 33 Stat. 1264, are stated
in the opinion.

The Solicitor Generalfor the United States:
The statute applies to the shipment of sheep from a
quarantined State or Territory into any other State or
Territory of the Union and to every carrier participating
in such shipment, not alone the initial carrier who takes
up the sheep in the quarantined district and carries .them
without, but as well to every succeeding connecting carrier doing any part of the work of transportation neces-

UNITED STATES v. B. & 0. SOUTHWEST'RN R. R. 9
222 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

sary to bring the shipment from its place of beginning to
its place of destination.
Considering the statute in its entirety and the purposes
for which it was enacted, it is applicable to interstate
shipments of live stock from place of origin to place of
destination.
AS a part of. the statute, too, the regulations made
-under it, which apply of course only to interstate shipments, must be taken into consideration. Certainly it was
competent for Congress to authorize a regulation which
was operative from the beginning to the end of the shipment. Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100; Kelley v.Rhoads,
188 U. S. 1.
The intention of the framers of the law was to authorize
such a regulation; see the report of House Committee,
No. 4200, 58th Cong., 3d Session, February 3, 1905, recommending the law in question as tending to control and
eradicate the contagious diseases of animals in the United
States; see also Regulations of Secretary of Agriculture
of April 15, 1907, and August 16, 1909.
The act accomplishesg what Congress intended and
what its efficiency requires and it should be interpreted
and enforced by the light of the fundamental rule for
carrying out its purposes. Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S.
412. The act deals with the shipment always as an entirety.
Mr. George Hoadly, with whom Mr. Judson Harmon,
Mr. Edward Colston and Mr. A. W. Goldsmitk were on the
brief, for defendant in error:
The statute is .penal. United States v. Southern Railway
Co., 187 Fed. Rep. 209, holding the statute to be remedial
and not penal was error; and see St. L. Terminal Co. v.
United States, 188 Fed. Rep. 191.
-Not only does the statute impose a money .penalty in
favor of the United States, not of a party aggrieved, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

222 U. S.

it'
declares that the violation of its provisions is a misdemeanor punishable by fine or imprisonment or both.
The fact that this defendant being a corporation cannot
be imprisoned does not make the statute anythe less penal.
As to strict construction of penal statutes, see Huntington v. Attril, 146 U. S., p. 667; 3 B1. Comm. 2; United
States v. SheldOn, 2 Wheat. 119; United Stateq v. Wiltberger,
5 Wheat. 76, 95; United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214;
Elliott v. RailroadCo., 99 U. S. 573, 576; Trade-Mark Cases,
100 U. S.82; Francev. United States, 164 U. S. 676; Bolles
v. Outing Co., 175 U. S.262, 265; United States v. Harris,
177 U. S. 305, 310; Werckmeister v. Am. Tobacco Co., 207
U. S. 381.
The defendant did not transport the live stock from
the State of Kentucky to the State of Ohio. Still less did
it receive them for such transportation. The transportation from Kentucky to Ohio was complete when it received them and its receipt of them was from, not for,
such transportation, as a result, not with the purpose, of
such transportation.
It may have been within the power of Congress to make
what the defendant did an offense, but Congress has not
done so.
The meaning of the statute is clear and needs no construction. "From," when used in any context resembling
this, means "from within"; and the word "into" is of so
simple a meaning that, so far as we have been able to
discover, no court has ever been compelled to define it.
-Commonwealth v. Erie & N. E. R. R., 27 Pa. St. 339;
,West. Penna. R. R. Co.'s Appeal, 99 Pa. St. 155; Tenn. &
Ala. R. R. v. Adams, 3 Head, 596; McCartney v. Chi. &
Evanston R. R. Co., 112 Illinois, 611, 626; and see alsQ B.
"&0. R. R. Co. V. P., .C. & St. L: Ry. Co., 55 Fed. Rep.
701; Commonwealth v. Ill. Cent. R. R. Co., 90 S.W. Rep.
273; Mohawk Bridge Co. v. Utica &c. R. R. Co., 6 Paige,
554.

UNITED STATES v. B. & 0. SOUTHWEST'RN R. R. 11
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR.JusTcC, MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
The defendant in error, called herein defendant, was
indicted for violations of the act of March 3, 1905 (33
Stat. 1264, c. 1496), entitled "An Act To enable the
Secretary of Agriculture to establish and maintain quarantine districts, to permit and regulate the movement of
cattle and other live stock therefrom, and for other.purposes."
Defendant entered a plea of not guilty, but subsequently
the court quashed the indictment, following the ruling
in certain other cases, and this writ of error was sued out
to determine the validity of the ruling. .
The efficient words of the statute are in ยง 2 (preseitly
to be given), and prohibit, receiving stock for transportation or to transport it from a quarantined State into any
other State or Territory. A summa;y of the indictment
is as follows:
The Secretary of Agriculture, in pursuance of the act
of Congress, having determined the fact that a contagious
and communicable disease, known as scabies, existedamong the sheep in the-State 'of Kentucky, as required
by said act, promulgated an order and regulation establishing a quarantine in Kentucky, and gave public notice
thereof, as required by the statute. And the indictment
charges that he gave notice of the quarantine and of
the rules and regulations established by hinr by sending
printed copies of the same to defendant, and that the receipt of notice was acknowledged by the general manager.
There were three separate shipments (each of which is
made a count in the indictment), of sheep from Kentucky
upon different dates, and the cars containing the. sheep
were delivered to the Cincinnati, New, Orleans & Texas
Pacific Railway Company, and transported by it over its
line of railroad to a point within the city of Cincinnati,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
( pmion ot the Court.

222 II. S.

State of Ohio, and were delivered at such point to defendant, and by it conveyed over its line of railroad to the
Union'Stock Yards in Cincinnati, "being a place," as the
indictment avers, "en route to the destination" of the
shipments.
The cars in which the shipments were made did not
have upon their sides, or at all, placards bearing the
words "Dipped scabby sheep" or the words "Exposed
sheep for slaughter," as provided in the orders and regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture, nor did the waybills, conductors' manifests, memoranda, and bills of
lading have written or stamped upon their face those
words, as was also required by such orders and regulations.
Section 1 of the act of Congress authorizes the Secretary
of Agriculture to quarantine any State or Territory, or
any portion of any State or Territory, when he shall determine the fact that there exists therein live stock affected
with any contagious, infectious or communicable disease,
and of such quarantine he is directed to publish notice..
Section 2 forbids railroad companies and others engaged in transportation to "receive for transportation or
transport
. .
from any quarantined portion of any
State or Territory,or the District of Columbia into any other
State or Territory or the District of Columbia, any cattle
or other live stock." The statute also forbids the delivery
for transportation, or the driving on foot or transporting
by private conveyance, of such stock "from a quarantined
State or Territory or the District of Columbia," or from
any portion of either, "into any other State or Territory
or the District of Columbia." And these words are repeated in other sections as descriptive of the transportation to which the statute applies.
An offender against the statute is declared (ยง 6) to be
guilty of a misdemeanor and punishable by a fine or imprisonment, or by both.
The question in th6 case is, What did Congress intend

UNITED STATES v. B. & 0. SOUTMWEST'RN R. R. 13
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

by the words we have italicized? Did the defenidant
receive the sheep for transportation from Kentucky, the
quarantined State, for delivery in a State by receiving
them in Ohio for delivery in Ohio?
The Government urges an answer in the affirmative
and contends that not only an initial carrier, but a connecting carrier, though it receive 'the stock in a State
other than the quarantined ,State (in the case. at bar,
Ohio), transports, within the meaning of the statute, stock
"from" one State "into" another. The argument is that
necessarily such connecting carrier is instrumental in the
transportation of the stock from the place of shipment
td its ultimate destination, -and therefore within the'reason and purpose of the law.
The contention is untenable. To receivq a thing in
Ohio is not receiving it in Kentucky; nor is transporting
it in Ohio transporting it from Kentucky into Ohio. To
sustain the indictment, therefore, we must disregard the
plain and only direct signification of -the words of the
statute. Such extreme liberty with the words of a penal
statute may not be taken. We are not unmindful that
our function is to seek the intention of the lawmaker and
that illustrations may be found where the literal meaning
of words has been extended beyond their absolute sense.
But the general rule is that penal statutes must be strictly
construed. It is a familiar rule and need not be illustrated.
The words of the statute, certainly when they have a
sensible meaning and' a.definite and unmistakable signification, as the words of the statute inder review have,
mark its extent. We do not mean to say that ambiguity
in words may not be resolved by the clear purpose of the
statute.
If, however, there be no ambiguity, the words of the
statute are the measure of its meaning. If there be ambiguity, the character of the statute determines fbr a
strict or liberal construction. A criminal statute is strictly

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

construed. Courts are not inclined to make "constructive
crimes." We therefore might have to decide against the
indictment, even if there were more ambiguity in the
statute under review than we find in it. It manifests care
and a studied purpose to define the extent of the quarantine and of what shall constitute violations of it. Within
its limits there shall be no delivery of stock for transportation beyond them "into any other State or Territory"
by public or.private conveyance or by driving. There is
no obscurity whatever. A sensible, definite meaning is
expressed. There must be a delivery for or a receiving
for -transportation "from the quarantined portion of any
State or Territory . . . into any other State or
Territory . . ." That reception and that transportation. are the elements of the crime and must exist to constitute it. None of these elements are charged againstthe defendant. It did, not receive the sheep for transportation in Kentucky or transport them "from" Kentucky
"into" Ohio. It received them in Ohio and transported
them in Ohio, and the statute thus construed adapts the
remedy to the mischief. In other words, if the breaking
of quarantine is prevented, the purpose of the statute is
fulfilled without subjecting to criminal accusation and
penalties distant carriers who, it may be, are ignorant
of the existence of the quarantine; and ignorant they may
be, for the statute (ยง 1) requires the Secretary of Agriculture to, give notice of the establishment of quarantine
only to the "transportation companies doing business in
or through" the quarantined State. It would be strange
indeed if the statute intends to confound unwillful with
willful acts by uniting in criminality and penalties the
companies to which no notice 6f quarantine is required
to be given with those to which notice is required.
We do not, of course, mean to say that the movement
of sheep in Ohio, did not tend to spread the contagion,
but it is certain there could have been no movement of

UNITED STATES v. PLYLER.
222 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

them in Ohio if they had not been transported "from"
Kentucky "into" Ohio.
In United States v. El Paso & N. E. Railroad Co., 178
Fed. Rep. 846, and in United States v. Chicago, Burlington
& Quincy R. R., 181 Fed. Rep. 882, the same construction
was given to the statute that we have given it. Also by
the Circuit Court of Appeals}for the Eighth Circuit in
St. Lbuis. St. Louis Merchants' Bridge Terminal Ry. Co.
v. United States, 188 Fed. Rep. 191. In United States v.
Southern Railway Co. (Circuit Court Dist. S. C.), 187
Fed. Rep. 209, a contrary ruling was made, and a connecting carrier which received stock outside of the limits of
the quarantined State was held to be liable.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. PLYLER.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA.

No. 440. Argued October 19, 1911.-Decided October 30, 1911.
It is not essential to charge or prove an actual financial or property
loss to make a case of defrauding the United States.
Section 5418, Rev. Stat., prohibits the forging of written vouchers
required upon examination by the Civil Service Commission of the
United States, and presenting such vouchers to the Commissioners.

THE facts are stated in th opinion.
The Solicitor General for the United States:
Section 5418, Rev. Stat., prohibits -the false making qf
any writing which would work a fraud upon the United
States in its. pecuniary or property rights or in the exercise of its governmental powers and duties.,. United States

