OCTOBER TERM. 1911.
Argument for the United States.

222 U. S.

and allowance be made at the same ratio to the date of the
judgment appealed from, such Sum, when added either to
the assessed value or to the value fixed by the plaintiff's
own witness at the trial, would be much below $25,000.
On this record "we are clear," as was found to be the case
in Red River Cattle Co. v. Needham, 137 U. S. 632, "that
the jurisdictional value is not made out by a preponderance
of evidence;" and the appeal is therefore
Dismissed.

UNITED STATES v. ECKSTEIN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.,
No. 52.

Argued November 10, 1911.-- Decided December 4, 1911.

Section 7 of the Dingley Tariff Act of June 24, 189, c. 11, 30 Stat. 159,
known as the similitude clause, does not require that there shall be
similarity of material, quality, texture and use in all four particulars,
but a substantial similarity in one particular may be adequate to
classify an article thereunder.
Imitation horsehair was properly classified und," the similitude clause
witb cotton yarn enumerated in paragraph 302 of the Tariff Act
instead of with silk yarn under paragraph 3.85, there being a sub-stantial similitude with the former both as toimaterial and use, even
if not as to quality or texture.
167 Fed. Rep. 802, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the correct classification, under the tariff act of 1897 of artificial horsehair, are stated
in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Wemple, with whom Mr.
Martin T. Baldwin, Special Attorney, was on the brief, for
the United States:
The Government insists that no statutory similitude is

UNITED STATES v. ECKSTEIN.
222 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

established, and that the merchandise is thererore dutiable
under § 6 of the tariff act of 1897 as an unenumerated
manufactured article.
The requirements of the similitude clause of §.7 are
satisfied if there be shown a proper similarity in any dne
of the four particulars, "material, quality, texture, or
use," named in that clause.
Artificial horsehair is made out of cellulose, which, when
prepared for manufacture, is wholly wanting in all the
quality and texture of the waste cotton which was chemically reduced to obtain it. This cotton waste probably
never- existed as cotton yarn at any time. By not even
the most' distant analogy can similitude to cotton yarn
in either quality or texture be -asserted, and the importers have not heretofore made any claim of similitude in
either quality or texture.- The court below based its decision entirely upon an assumed similitude of artificial
horsehair to cotton yarn in the other two statutory particulars, material and use. The only qtuestion before this
court is the correctness of the decision of the court in defining a legally recognizable similitude in material and in
use, and in applying its definition to the facts in the case.
Statutory similitude has been held to be a substantial
similitude in one or more of the particulars mentioned in
§ 7 of the tariff act of 1897. Arthur v. Fox, 108 U. S.
125, 128; Stuart v. Maxwell, 16 How. 150, 162; Murphy v.
Arnson, 96 U. S. 131, 133; Pickardt v. Merritt, 132 U. S.
252, 259.
Substantial similitude in material with cottonyarn is
not established. If the particular importation had happened to consist of imitation horsehair whose source was
wood pulp instead of. cotton waste, the difference would
have been in fact no greater than it isnow.
The resulting product no longer consists of cotton, and
is not entitled to be considered in any legislative sense
a "manufacture" of cotton. Meyer v. Arthur, 91 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Respondent.

222 U. S.

570, 576; United States v. Proctor, 145 Fed. Rep. 126;
Hardt von Bernuth v. United States, 146 Fed. Rep. 61.
Substantial similitude in use is not established. Similitude to cotton yarn in general must be established; that
is, it must be shown that the ordinary use of both artificial
horsehair and cotton yarn is to effect in a particular manner or process the same concrete result. This is a proposition which argues itself; the statement of it satisfies at
once the reasoning faculty. That thing has not been done
in the case at bar. Patterson v. United States, 166 Fed.
Rep. 733; United States v. Rheims, 175 Fed. Rep. 778.
In order to invoke similitude, it must be substantial,
and it must be a lawfully recognizable similitude, a similitude to the very merchandise directly enumerated in the
act, not a mere subdivision or a casual, special, or, as here,
advanced form thereof.
Mr. Wade H. Ellis, with whom Mr. John A. Kratz, Jr.,
was on the brief, for respondent:
The question of the similitude is one of fact. Erhardt v.
Steinhardt, 153 U. S. 177; Herman v. Arthur's ExecutorR.
127 U. S. 363, 370; Wills ir.
Russell, 100 U. S. 621.
The Government is asking this court to reverse the action of a court below based upon a question of fact; judgment based upon such finding will not be reversed unless
there is no evidence to sustain it.
Similitude does not mean identity. If it did, then it
would never be effective. United States v. Roessler, 137
Fed. Rep. 770. See also on this point and that of substantial similitude: Greenleaf v. Goodrich, 101 U. S.278, 283;
Fisk v. Arthur, 103 U. S.431; Arthur v. Fox, 108 U. S.
125; Pickhardt v. Merritt, 132 U. S.252; Stizart v. Maxwell, 16 How. 150; Mandell et al. v. Seeberger, 39 Fed. Rep.
760; In re Herter Brothers, 53 Fed. Rep. 913; United States
v. Dana, 99 Fed. Rep. 433; Hahn v. United States, 100 Fed.
Rep. 635; Tiffany v. United States, 112 Fed. Rep. 672; In

UNITED STATES v. ECKSTEIN.

222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

re Guggenheim Smelting Co., 112 Fed. Rep. 517; Waddell
& Co. v. United States, 124 Fed. Rep. 301; Rich v. United
States, 176 Fed. Rep. 732.
The evidence establishes that substantial similitude exists as to use to cotton yarn. Downing v. United Staies, 109
Fed. Rep. 885; T. D. 20556; G. A. 4334, Jan. 16, 1899.
The evidence establishes that substantial similitude
exists as to material to cotton yarn.
The Proctor,Patterson and Rheims Cases cited by the
Government do not apply.
The merchandise is a yarn commercially.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
* This suit concernsthe correct classification, under the
tariff act of July 24, 1897, c. 11, 30 Stat. 151, of artificial
or imitation horsehair, imported by the respondent into
the port of New York on October 5, 1904.*
Artificial or imitation horsehair is made from cotton
waste by two processes, the Fremery and the Chardonnet.
By the first process, referred to in the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Hardt von
Bernuth v. United States, 146 Fed. Rep. 61, the cotton waste
is dissolved in a solution of cup-ammonium, a salt of copper and ammonia, and this solution is forced through fine
openings, discharging into a bath of acetic acid, forming
threads of cellulose. By the second process the cotton
waste, or raw cotton, is at first turned into gun cotton.
This gun cotton is then mixed with alcohol and ether,
and dissolved into a liquid, and this liquid is forced by pressure through pipes, at the end of which there are a number of small openings. The material is subsequently subjected to a process which it is not necessary to describe.
In the manufacture under both processes the single filaments 'are not allowed to solidify, although they are made

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

to stick together, whereas in the manufacture by the like
process of artificial silk the fine filaments are grouped and
twisted together and solidified. The imitation horsehair
is usually dyed black, imported in skeins and sometimc
on spools.
Imitation horsehair is not expressly mentioned in the
Tariff Act of 1897, probably because it was not commercially known when the act was passed.
The provisions of the act of 1897 which are required to
be considered in the determination of the question to be
decided, briefly, are these, viz: § 6, providing for duty on
non-enumerated articles; § 7, the "similitude clause;"
paragraph 302, the cotton yarn clause, and paragraph 385,
the silk yarn clause.
The goods were classified by the collector at the port of
New York as "similar" to silk yarn, and reference was
made to prior decisions, viz: G. A. 4939, 5081 and 5257.
Duty was collected at the rate of "30 per centum ad valorem, under paragraph 385, the silk yarn provision, as a
result of applying section 7 of the 'similitude clause.'
The importer l rotested, claiming the merchandise to be
dutiable at the rate provided by paragraph 302, by similitude to cotton yarn, or at the rate of 20 per cent. under
section 6, as a non-enumerated manufactured article."
Before the Board of General Appraisers testimony was
seemingly directed on the part of the importers to establishing that the material was, and on the part of the Government that it was not, a yarn. On June 22, 1906, the
board reversed the action of the Lollector and sustained
the alternative claim of the importers that the merchandise
was dutiable as a non-enumerated manufactured article
under § 6. G. A. 6387, T. D. 27442. It is worthy of remark, however, that pending the hearing before the board
the Secretary of the Treasury, in Treasury Decisions
27350, May 15, 1906, directed collectors of customs that
duty should be assessed on imitation horsehair as a non-

UNITED STATES v. ECKSTEIN.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

enumerated manufactured article at the .rate of 20 per
centum ad valorem under §6.
By appropriate proceedings Eckstein, the respondent
here, invoked the exercise of jurisdiction by the Circuit
Court for the Southern District of New York for the review of questions of law and fact involved in the decision
of the Board of General Appraisers, and in that court contended that the merchandise was.a yarn and was by similitude dutiable under paragraph 302 as a cotton yarn. The
court, after hearing additional testimony, decided that
the merchandise was not yarn, could not by similitude be
assessed as cotton yarn or yarn of any other kind, and that
the board properly assessed it under § 6 as a manufactured
article not otherwise provided for. 160 Fed. Rep. 287.
The Circuit ,Court of Appeals (167 Fed. Rep. 802) reversed the judgment, and held that the merchandise should
be classified under § 7 of the act as a non-enumerated
article similar to cotton yarn, and the duty should be
assessed under the paragraph (302) relating to cotton
yarn. Referring to its previous opinion in the Bernuth
Case, already referred to, wherein it was held that artificial
silk, which, as we have already said, is made by. similar
processes, should be so classified, the court said (p. 803):
"The judge of the Circuit Court affirmed the government's classification, distinguishihg that case on the ground
that artificial silk was found to be a yarn, whereas artificial
horsehair, being solid, and not composed of twisted or
spun filaments, is not a yarn. Admitting that this is so,
still artificial horsehair is like cotton' yarn in material,
each being composed almost entirely of cellulose, and like
it in use, being largely used as glazed cotton is in making
hat 'braids, shoe laces, binding braids, tapes, and imitation
horsehair. 'We think these resemblances establish its
similitude to cotton yarn, even if. the texture of the two
articles is different."
This writ:of certiorari was thereupon allowed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

The question is simply this: Did the Circuit Court of
Appeals properly classify the merchandise'
The portion of § 7, the similitude clause of the act of
1997, with which we are concerned, is as follows:
"Section 7. That each and every imported article, not
enumerated in this Act, which is similar, either in material, quality, texture, or the use to which it may be applied, to any article enumerated in this Act as chargeable
with duty, shall pay the same rate of duty which is levied
on the enumerated article which it most resembles -in any
of the particulars before mentioned;
In the brief for the Government it is said: "It is well
established that the requirements of the similitude clause
of section 7 are satisfied if there be shown a proper similarity in any one of the four particulars, material, quality,
texture or use," enumerated in the section. Arthur v. Fox,
108 U. S. 125.
As said by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit, in United States v. Roesseler, 137 Fed. Rep. 770,
773, "It must be borne in mind that the statute does not
require identity; if that were necessary the statute would
have no raison d'tre."
The decision of the Board of General Appraisers and of
the Circuit Court were placed upon the ground that the
merchandise produced by a chemical process was not
structurally a yarn, such as is produced by the mechanical
process of spinning. It was not, by either the board or
the court, found that there was no substantial similarity
to cotton yarn in material or use. We think the evidence
justifies the contention of counsel for the importer that
commercially the merchandise is a yarn. As we have
before said, the Government originally contended that
it was a yarn, and it is reflex significailce that in the Tariff
Act of 1909 (August 5, 1909, 36 Stat. 11, 60, c. 6) special
provision is made for these things in paragraph 405, as for
"yarns, threads; filaments of artificial or imitation silk, or

UNITED STATES v. ECKSTEIN.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of artificial or imitation horsehair, by whatever name
known, and by whatever process made." But assuming,
for argument sake, as did the Circuit Court of Appeals,
that the nierchandise is mot a yarn, let us cdnsider, even if
the texture of the articles be different, whether it was correctly held that the similitude to cotton yarn was established because." artificial horsehair is like cotton yar in
material, each being composed almost entirely of cellulose,
and like it in use, being largely used as -glazed cotton is in
making hat braids, shoe laces, binding braids, tapes, and
imitation horsehair."
As to "material:-Respondent does not claim similarity
between the merchandise in question and cotton-because
cellulose is found in each; the contention is that there is
similaHrity in material" because the proportion of the ingredients-cellulose, water, etc.-is the same in the merchandise in question as the proportion of the same ingredients in' cott6n.-; Counsel say, and the contention is,
we think, supportedby the evidence:
"The goods are made of cottbnflbres. Cotton consists
of pure cellulose with a small percentage of hydroscopic
water. The merchandise in suit is pure cellulose with a
small percentage of hydroscopic water. It differs only
from.the cotton fibre-in that the cell structure has been
brroken down.. Other than this, cotton and the merchandise in. suit are identical in material. No element is found
in cotton which is not present in this merchandise; no elemit is in this merchandise which is not found in cotton,
and the proportion of elements in both is approximately
the same.'.'
As to use: Paragraph 302 of.the act covers cotton yarns
regardless of their use. Thus, yarns have four broad, general uses, viz: knitting, weaving, sewing and braiding, and
manifestly a given cotton yarn could not be used for all
the purposes of all cotton yprns. In the group of hard
twisted yarns is.found cotton-yarn, used in the production

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S."

of hat braids, and in the same commercial group appears
the merchandise in suit. One of the many varieties of
cotton yarn used in making hat braids is what is known as
glazed or polished cotton. yarn. It is asserted and not
denied that such merchandise has been uniformly classified for customs purposes as a cotton yarn, and so far from
being a highly specialized and unusual commodity, it has
been an important article of commerce for at least thirty
years. However, while imitation horsehair is generally
used in the production of hat braids and is used interchangeably with glazed cotton yarn for such purpose, it
has, in common with cotton yarns, other uses, which are
referred to in the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Upon the whole, we are of opinion that both as to material and use there is a substantial statutory similitude
between cotton yarns enumerated in paragraph 302 and
the merchandise in question, both as to material and use.
As the requirement of the statute is not that there shall be
similarity in all of the four particulars enumerated in §7,
but a substantial similarity in one of those particulars
may be adequate, the classification adopted by the Circuit Court of Appeals was proper, and its judgment is
therefore
Affirmed.

