KRYGER v. WILSON.
242 U. S.

Syllabus.

clear and palpable error is shown which would justify us
in disturbing that ruling. Seaboard Air Line Ry. v. Padgett, 236 U. S. 668, 673; Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Knapp,
240 U. S. 464, 466. The defendant further complains
that the trial court refused to give certain instructions on
the issues of negligence and assumption of risk. These
instructions were properly refused; because in each instance the recital therein did not include all the facts
which the jury was entitled to consider on the issues presented and concerning which there was some evidence.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

KRYGER v. WILSON ET AL., ADMINISTRATORS. 1
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
DAKOTA.

No. 99.

Submitted November 13, 1916.-Decided December 4, 1916.

Whether the cancellation of a land contract is governed by the law
of the situs or the law of the place of making and performance is a
question of local common law with which this court is not concerned
in a case coming from a state tribunal.
In a suit in a state court to quiet. title to land within its jurisdiction, a
resident of another State voluntarily appeared and, as defendant
and counterclaimant, asserted his right to possession and control
of the land under a contract of sale. The court adjudged that his
rights under the contract were gone as the result of statutory pro'The title of this case, as originally docketed, was "Henry H.
Kryger, plaintiff in error, v. Edward H. Wilson." On October 9, 1916,
the death of Edward H. Wilson was suggested and the appearance of
Ida S. Wilsor and J. E. Davis, administrators, as the parties defendant
in errr,. was. filed and entered.

172

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.'
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

242 U. S.

ceedings for forfeiture and cancellation taken pursuant to the lex
loci rei sitce.
Held, that, whether the court was right or wrong in upholding the cancellation proceeding as applied to the contract, there
was no denial of due process of law, since due process was afforded
in the suit to quiet title itself. Selover, Bates & Co. v. Walsh, 226
U. S. 112, distinguished.
Such proceedings as are required by Minnesota Revised Statutes, 1905,
ยง 4442, and North Dakota Revised Code of Civil Procedure, 1905,
ch. 30, Art. 3, pars. 7494-7497, in order to enable a vendor to cancel
and avoid a contract for a default of the vendee, are not judicial
proceedings but merely statutory conditions upon the right of
cancellation, and hence the absence of notice does not involve a
denial of due process.
No federal question arises*under the contract clause from the impairment of a contractual obligation by judicial decision alone.
29 N. Dak. 28. affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. 0. E. Holman and Mr. William W. Fry for plaintiff

inerror:
A contract for the sale of real estate must be canceled
according to the law of and in the State where it was
made, where all the parties to it reside, and where it is to
be performed. Finnes v. Selover, 102 Minnesota, 334;
Walsh v. Selover, Bates & Co., 109 Minnesota, 136; and
the latter case in this court, Selover, Bates & Co. v. Walsh,

226 U. S.112. The contract in the 'Walsh Case was by no
means as clearly a Minnesota contract as is the contract in
the case at bar.
The contract involves rights irrespective of the loo~tion
of the land. It does not itself convey the land, being
simply an agreement that upon payment a conveyance
will be made. The form of conveyance would have to
suit the lex sita, ,but the Minnesota courts, if they had
jurisdiction of the vendor, could compel a conveyance
in that form. See Polson v. Stewart, 167 Massachusetts,
211.,
The process by which the obligation of a contract is

KRYGERv. WILSON.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

.

canceled is not remedial merely; it goes to the substance.
Scudder v. Union National Bank, 91 U. S. 406; True v.
Northern Pacific Railway, 126 Minnesota, 72. This, being
a Minnesota contract, could be canceled only by complying
with the Minnesota law. The attempt in North Dakota
was void. Kryger's vested right could not be disturbed
without due process. The constitutional inhibition applies to every form of proceeding, legislative, judicial and
executive. Kryger had no notice of the cancellation
proceeding, or anything approaching notice. If the contract is canceled at all it must be canceled as a whole,
and this can only be done as provided by the Minnesota
law.
In the suit to quiet title the court should have decreed
the title as it found it and stopped; it should not have
proceeded to determine the liability of Kryger's vendor.
The decision is an impairment of the obligation of the
contract. Minnesota ex rel. National Bond & Security Co.
v. Krahmer, 105 Minnesota, 422; Von Hoffman v. Quincy,
4 Wall. 553; Cooley, Const. Lim., 178. It iii effect determines that no obligation under it any longer exists. The
Minnesota law being part of the contract, fixing its obligations, the Dakota judgment impairs the contract indirectly by reading that law entirely out of it.
Mr. George S. Grimes and Mr. Jesse Van Valkenburg
for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEis delivered the opinion of the
court.
This case comes here on writ of error to the Supreme
Court of North Dakota to review a decree quieting title
in the defendant in error--the plaintiff below-to land
situated in that State. The plaintiff in error, a resident
of Minnesota, claimed under an executory contract for

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

the purchase of the land in controversy, and the rights of
the parties turned upon whether this contract was outstanding or had been duly cancelled. Both Minnesota,
where the contract was made and to be performed, and
North Dakota, had statutes providing that a vendor in
a contract for the sale of land may not cancel and terminate the same upon default, except after written notice
to the vendee giving him at least thirty days within which
to make good his non-performance. Minn. R. S., 1905,
ยง 4442; N. Dak. Rev. Code, 1905, Chap. 30, Art. 3. The
material provisions of the latter statute are copied in the
margin.' The vendor in this case (grantor of defendant
'N. Dak. Rev. Code of Civ. Pro. (1905), Chap. 30, Art. 3:
"Par. 7494. Owner must give written notice to vendee or purchaser.
No owner of real estate, or owner of any equity therein, [who] shall
hereafter make or execute a contract for deed, bond for deed, or other
instrument for the future conveyance of any such real estate or equity
therein, shall have the right to declare a cancellation, termination or
forfeiture thereof or thereunder, except upon written notice to the
vendee or purctfaser, or his assigns, as hereinafter provided; and such
notice shall be given to such vendee or purchaser or his assigns, notwithstanding any provision or condition in any such instrument to the
contrary.
"Par. 7495. In case of default. Contents of notice. Whenever any
default shall have been made in the terms or conditions of any such
instrument hereinafter made, and the owner or vendor shall desire to
cancel or terminate the same, [he] shall, within a reasonable time after
such defauft, cause a written 'notice to be served upon the vendee or
purchaser, or his assigns, stating that such default occurred, and that
said contract will be cancelled or terminated, and shall recite in said
notice the time when said cancellation or termination shall take effect,
which shall not be less than thirty days after the service of such notice.
"Par. 7496. Notice how served. Such notice shall be served upon
the vendee or purchaser, or his assigns, in the manner now provided for
the'service of summons in the District Court of this state, if such person
to be served resides within the state. If such vendee or purchaser, or
his assigns, as the case may be, resides without the state or cannot be
found therein, of which fact, the return of the sheriff of the county in
which said real estate is situated, that such person to be served cannot

KRYGER v. WILSON.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in error) had given to the sheriff of the county where the
land lay a written notice of cancellation to be served upon
the plaintiff in error if found within the said county, and
upon return of not found, caused the same to be published
in a county newspaper, and later filed for record affidavits
of publication and of non-redemption-all in conformity
with the North Dakota statute, if it applied.
When the present action was brought to quiet title,
plaintiff in error defended, and asked for counter relief,
contending that his contract was still valid and subsisting,
as the actioh prescribed by the Minnesota statute to entitle a vendor to cancel had not been taken. The trial
court held that the North Dakota law governed; that
under it the contract had been "duly and legally cancelled"; that the plaintiff in error having shown no right
in the land, .titleshould be forever quieted in the defendant
in error. This decree was affirmed by the Supreme Court
on appeal. Wilson v. Kryger, 29 N. Dak. 28. We are
asked to review the case on the ground that the state
court deprived the plaintiff in error of property without
be found in his county, shall be primafacie evidence,\then such notice
shall be served by the publication thereof in a weekly newspaper within
.said county; or, if there is no weekly newspaper within said county,
then in a newspaper published at the capital of this state for a period of
three successive weeks.
"Par. 7497. Time allowed. Such vendee or purchaser, or his assigns, shall have thirty days after the service of such notice upon him in
which to perform the conditions. or comply with the provisions upon
which the default shall have occurred; and upon such performance, and
upon making such payment, together with the costs of service of such
notice, such contract or-other instrument shall be reinstated and shall
remain in force and effect the same as if no default had occurred therein.
No provision in any contract for the purchase of land, or an interest in
land, shall be construed to obviate the necessity of giving the aforesaid
notice, and no contract shall terminate until such notice is given, any
provision in such contract to the contrary notwithstanding."
The provisions of the Minnesota statute are substantially to the
same effect.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

due process of law and impaired the obligation of his
contract, in holding that the cancellation proceeding, of
which the plaintiff in error had no actual notice, effectively
terminated his, rights under the contract.
It is apparent from the above statement that there has
been no lack of due process. The court below, having
jurisdiction of the suit to quiet title, was called upon to
determine the conflicting claims to the land. The plaintiff
in error voluntarily appeared and he availed himself of
the opportunity to urge his claims to equitable ownership
under the contract of sale. The court decided against
him, holding the contract no longer outstanding. The
most that the plaintiff in error can say is that the state
court made a mistaken application of doctrines of the
conflict of laws in deciding that the cancellation of a land
contract is governed by the law of the situs instead of the
place of making and performance. But that, being purely
a question of local common law, is a matter with which
this court is not concerned. Pennsylvania R. Co. v.
Hughes, 191 U. S. 477; Finney v. Guy, 189 U. S. 335, 346;
Allen v. Alleghany Co., 196 U. S. 458; Marrowv. Brinkley,
129 U. S. 178.
The argument of the plaintiff in error is seemingly based
upon the erroneous theory that his rights were foreclosed
by the cancellation proceeding, which, lacking'the requisite
notice, deprived him ,of property without due process.
But the action under the cancellation statute was in no
sense a judicial proceeding. It was simply a statutory
condition with which vendors were required to comply
before they could take advantage of a default by the
vendee. If the contract properly interpreted or the law
properly applied required that this condition be performed in Minnesota, steps taken by him under the
North Dakota statute would be ineffective. Whether or
not proper proceedings had been taken to secure cancellation could be determined only by a court having

KRYGER v. WILSON.

242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction; and the North Dakota court had jurisdiction
not only over the land but through the voluntary appearance of plaintiff in error, also over him. His rights have
been foreclosed, not by the cancellation proceeding under
the statute, but by a due and regular judicial decree which
was based upon the finding that a default had occurred,
of which the vendor was entitled to take advantage, having
complied with the proper law. If the plaintiff in error had
not submitted himself to the jurisdiction of the court, the
decree could have determined only the title to the land
and would have left him free to assert any personal rights
he may have had under the contract. But having come
into court and specifically asked in his cross bill that he
be declared entitled to the "possession and control of the
real estate described in the domplaint herein under a
contract of sale," he cannot now complain if he has been
concluded altogether in the premises. The plaintiff ii
error relies upon Selover, Bates & Co. v. Walsh, 226 U. S.
112. That was a personal action for breach of contract
and not, like the present case, an action merely to determine the title to land; and as the court found oni the facts
there involved that the proper law as to cancellation had
been applied, the case cannot be construed as holding
that an erroneous application thereof would raise a question of due process.
The contention based on the contract clause is equally
devoid of merit, for there has been no subsequent legislation impairing the obligation of the contract. Impairment
by judicial decision does not raise a federal question.
Cross Lake Shooting and Fishing Club v. Louisiana, 224
U. S. 632.
Judgment affirmed.

