VON BAUMBACH v. SARGENT LAND CO.
242 U. S.

503

Syllabus.

prior statute and necessarily, therefore, had an added
effect. The first statute prohibited the importation of any
alien woman or girl into the United States "for the purposes of prostitution." The second statute repeated the
words and added "or for any other immoral purpose"
(italics mine). 'Necessarily there was an enlargement of
purpose, and besides the act was directed against the
importation of foreign corruption and was construed
accordingly. The case, therefore, does not contradict the
rule; it is an example of it.
For these reasons I dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court, expressing no opinion of the other
propositions in the cases.
I am authorized to say that, the CHIEF JUSTICE and MR.
JUSTICE CLARKE concur

in this dissent.

VON BAUMBACH, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. SARGENT LAND COMPANY.
VON BAUMBACH, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. SUTTON LAND COMPANY.
VON BAUMBACH, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. KEARSARGE LAND COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 286, 287, 288.

Argued December 13,14, 1916.-Decided January 15,
1917.

Corporations organized under the laws of Minnesota, not for charitable
or eleemosynary purposes but for the pecuniary advantage of their
shareholders, held, "organized for profit" within the meaning of the
Corporation Tax Law of August 5,.1909.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Petitioner.

242 U. S.

The decision whether a corporation is carrying on business within the
meaning of the Corporation Tax Law must depend in each instance
upon the particular facts before the court; no particular amount of
business is required.
A corporation which has not reduced its activities to owning and holding property -and the distribution of its avails, but maintains its
organization for continued efforts in pursuit of profit and for such
activities as are therein essential, is carrying on business within the
meaning of the act.
Respondent corporations, besides receiving and distributing among
their shareholders the royalties from a number of outstanding long
term "mining leases," employed another company to inspect the
lessees' operations and keep them to their contracts, made some
mining explorations at expense on other parts of their properties,
sold or leased other parcels and sold some timber, held, that they were
carrying on business within the meaning of the Corporation Tax
Law.
Qucere: Whether this court, in determining whether royalties under
mining leases are income subject to the Corporation Tax Law, is
constrained t6 follow the decisions of the highest court of the State
in which the leased property is situate holding that such royalties
are rents and profits.
Th. "mining leases" involved in these cases, were not equivalent to
sales of property; and the moneys paid by the lessees to the respondents were not converted capital, but rents or royalties, and as
such were income, proper to be included in measuring their taxes
under the Corporation Tax Law. Stratton's Independence v. Howbert, 231 U. S. 399; Stanton v. Baltic Mining Co., 240 U. S. 103.
The depletion of a mine resulting from the removal of ore in the course
of its operation is not a "depreciation of property" for which a
deduction may be made under the Corporation Tax Law.
219 Fed. Rep. 31, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Wallace for petitioner:

The respondents were "doing business" within the
meaning of the Corporation Tax Act. The cases fall
within Mitchell v. Clark Iron Co., 220 U. S. 107, 170; not
within United States v. Emery, Bird, Thayer Realty Co.,
237 U. S. 28.

In the cases at bar the companies were

VON BAUMBACH v. SARGENT LAND CO.
242 U. S.

505

Argument for Petitioner.

incorporated, for the very purpose of getting, in the
operation and management of mining leases, the advantage of a legal person over minors and undivided
interests. The corporations supplied the main capitalthe land. The lessees supplied the labor and, so to speak,
the working capital. The product was divided between
them. This arrangement constituted a community of
interest between lessors and lessees and required the
corporations to do what they did-namely, exercise a
constant supervision over the business to see that 'they
obtained their just royalties. This shows that the object
of a mining lease is to divide up the mining business, the
lessor furnishing most of the capital.
A mining lease is not a sale on installments, and the
royalties thereon are income. See the full remarks of
Lord Blackburn in Coltness Iron Co. v. Black, 6 App.
Cas. 315, 335. As for the Pennsylvania cases relied on by
the court below (219 Fed. Rep. 38, 39), see Denniston v.
Haddock, 200 Pa. St. 426, 428; they oppose all the other
authorities. Before the rights of the United States accrued, the Supreme Court of Minnesota had decided, in
State v. Evans, 99 Minnesota, 220, that a mining.lease is
not a sale but a lease, and that the royalties on it are true
rents or profits accruing from the land, and this was
affirmed in Boeing v. Owsley, 122 Minnesota, 190, and in
Minnesota v. Royal Mineral Association, 156 N. W. Rep.
128, notwithstanding the decision below. The decision in
State v. Evans made a rule of property in Minnesota, and
the Court of Appeals was bound to follow it.
The royalties or rentals, when received, constituted
gross income of the lessors. Mitchell v. Clark Iron Co.,
supra. Whether these "royalties" are called payments by
installment of a debt, or conversion of capital from one
form to another, they were, nevertheless, received by the
companies during the taxing years from the business done
by them with the advantages inherent in a corporate

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Petitioner.

242 U. S.

organization. They were the gross income of the companies from such business, since gross income is nothing
but gross money receipts or revenue. They are therefore
within the very language of the act. Anderson v. Fortytwo Broadway Co., 239 U. S. 69. The distinction is plain
between a asual conversion of capital, Secretary of State v.
Scoble (1903), 1 K. B. 494 (1903) A. C. 299; Stevens v.
Hudson's Bay Co., 101 Law Times Rep. 96; Gray v. Darlington, 15 Wall. 63, 66, and a conversion occurring in the
regular course of business. Stratton's Independence, Ltd.,
v. Howbert, 231 U. S. 399, 414, 415; Stanton v. Baltic
Mining Co., 240 U. S. 103, 114.
"Depreciation" cannot be "allowed" under the act
unless, and only to the extent that, actual deductions or
payments have been made on account of it. Just as
"income" must be an actual, not a hypothetical, receipt,
so "outgo" must be an actual, not a hypothetical, payment... It seems clear that "depreciation," as defined by
the act, is within the class "losses actually sustained
within the year;" and it seems equally clear that a loss to
be "actually sustained" must have caused some actual
disservice or damage to the person concerned. Baldwin
Locomotive Works v. McCoach, 215 Fed. Rep. 967, 969; 221
Fed. Rep. 59.
Depletion of capital cannot be deducted as "depreciation." The latter term does not naturally include the
former. In the case of a mine the machinery, shafts, etc.,
depreciate, but we do not say that the deposit of mineral
depreciates by being sold. The English decisions all seem
to maintain, or, at least, countenance the view that depletion oLcapital cannot be deducted as depreciation. Lee v.
Neuchatel Asphalt Co., 41 Ch. Div. 1; Wilmer v. McNamara & Co., Ltd. (1895), 2 Ch. 245; Coltness Iroh Co. v.
Black, 6 App. Cas. 315; Alianza Co. v. Bell (1904), 2 K. B.
666 (1905), 1 K. B. 184 (1906), A. C. 18; Kauri Timber
Co., Ltd., v. Commr. of Taxes (1913), A. C. 771, 777. See

VON BAUMBACH v. SARGENT LAND CO_
242 U. S.

507

Argument for Respondents.

Boutwell on the direct and excise tax system of the
United States, pp. 273, 274; Stratton's Independence v.
Howbert, 207 Fed. Rep. 419, 421, 422; Commonwealth v.
Ocean Oil Co., 59 Pa. St.. 61; Commonwealth v. Penn Gas
Coal Co., 62 Pa. St. 241; Van Dyke v. Milwaukee, 159
Wisconsin, 460. We know of no authority holding depletion of capital equivalent to " depreciation" other than the
decision of the court below and that in the Nipissing Mines
Case, 202 Fed. Rep. 803.
Mr. John R. Van Derlip, with whom Mr. Burt F. Lum
and Mr. Kenneth Taylor were on the brief, for respondents.
The respondents were not corporations "organized for
profit." The sole purpose of their organization was the
liquidation of the assets contributed, in undivided portions, by the owners, with a view to the partition of the
whole and to enable them to realize the money equivalent
of their respective contributions, but with no view to
dealing, speculating, trading, or gain. The act means that
a corporation, to be subject to taxation, must be organized
to make profit from the carrying on or doing of business.
Lewellyn v. Pittsburgh,B. & L. E. Ry. Co., 222 Fed. Rep.
177, 183, 184; Smith v. Anderson, L. R., 15 Ch.Div. 247.
The words "organized for profit," do not merely distinguish between charitable corporations and all others.
The suggestion that any corporation organized by private
persons for their own advantage or interest is organized for
profit is untenable. Such an interpretation is opposed to
the common acceptation of the words, and renders them
idle. For it is not sensibly conceivable that any persons
would organize a corporation, unless it would be of some
advantage to them. The tax is not a tax on incomes, nor
on corporations which merely receive incomes from property. Zonne v. Minneapolis Syndicate, 220 U. S. 187;
McCoach v. Minehill &c. R. R. Co., 228 U. S.295; Flint v.
Stone-Tracy Co., 220 U. S.149, 152. The receipt of inter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Respondents.

242 U. S.

est, rent, or other income is simply a concomitant of
property ownership. Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust
Co., 158 U. S. 601, 625, 626. "Profit" in this act signifies
the gain from a commercial or other active business, involving "ordinary and necessary expenses" in the way of
rentals, salaries and other outgoes and obligations. Gray
v. Darlington, 15 Wall. 63; People v. Board of Supervisors,
4 Hill, 20. If the words" organized for profit" be ignored,
the act would apply to every corporation carrying on or
doing business, which, concededly, it does not.
Respondents were not "carrying on or doing business"
during the years for which the tax was assessed. There
was no substantial activity other than the receipt of
moneys payable to them under the outstanding mining
contracts and the distrioution of such moneys to their
stockholders. It was only because the act was limited to
corporations doing business that its .constitutionality was
sustained. Flint v. Stone-Tracy Co., supra.
In Mitchell v. Clark Iron Co., 220 U. S. 107, 170, the
question whether the Clark Iron Company was "doing
business" within the meaning of the statute was not an
issue. This court assumed that the company was continuing, after the passage and approval of the act, to
make leases from time to time, an activity, which, if it
existed, may be conceded to be doing business within the
statute.
The amendment of the articles of incorporation in
these cases conforms completely in its effect to the amendment made by the Minneapolis Syndicate in the Zonne
Case, supra, and also in Abrast Realty Co. v. Maxwell, 206
Fed. Rep. 333; s. c., 218 Fed. Rep. 457.
In every case the question is determined not by the
power to act, but by the activities engaged in by the
corporation. Flint v. Stone-Tracy Co., 220 U. S.107, 145,
151; United States v. Emery, Bird, Thayer Realty Co., 237
U. S. 28, 32; Minehill &c. R. R. Co. v. McCoach, 192

VON BAUMBACH v. SARGENT LAND CO.
242 U. S.

509

Argument for Respondents.

Fed. Rep. 670, 672; Public Service Ry. Co. v. Herold, 227
Fed. Rep. 500; State Line Co. v. Davis, 228 Fed. Rep.
246, 249.
Owning and caring for property and division of the
income from it is not "doing business." Business must be
actually done. So far as concerns the mining property, the
contracts disqualified respondents from "doing business."
The business was all done by the lessees. The petty
licenses to squatters and the two or three sales of burned
timber to save its value from destruction were of course
merely incidental and negligible. So were the sales of
land, which were trivial, incidental to ownership and made
under a contract antedating respondents' ownership.
Sales, or receipts of principal, interest or rents, as incidents of ownership, are not doing business.
Since the receipts of money under the mining contracts represented merely a conversion of capital assets
without gain or profit, they were not "gross income."
Respondents took and held the legal title, subject to the
outstanding contracts, pursuant to which they could receive, and anticipate receiving, nothing except the moneys
which should become payable thereunder. Even if the
contracts were not sales of the ore, it does not follow that
the receipts were income. Counsel here distinguished
English cases, and cited Caldwell v. Fulton, 31 Pa. St. 475;
Harlanv. Lehigh C. & N. Co., 35 Pa. St. 287; Citizens' Gas
Co. v. Whitney, 232 Pa. St. 592, and many other Pennsylvania decisions, and Hook v. Garfield Coal Co., 112
Iowa, 210; Wilson v, Youst,"43 W. Va. 826; Selvey V-.
Grafton Coal Co., 72 W. Va. 680; Manning v. Frazier, 96
Illinois, 279. The contracts are analogous to executory
contracts of sale. Genet v. D. & H. Canal Co., 136 N. Y.
593; Browning v. Boswell, 215 Fed. Rep. 826; Kansas
Natural Gas Co. v. Board, 75 Kansas, 335.
The decisions of the Minnesota Supreme Court on the
nature of such "mining leases" are not binding as a rule of

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Respondents.

242 U. S.

property or otherwise. All the cases cited to the contrary concerned private, disputes in most instances governed by local laws or rules of property, and in none of
them was the construction of a federal statute involved.

The law in question is a federal taxing law which under the
Constitution must operate with uniformity to be valid,
and in applying it the federal courts must follow their own
judgment.

Gross income and gross receipts are different things.
There is no tax unless there are net profits. Flint v.
Stone-Tracy Co., .220 U. S. 145. If the receipts from the
leases were income there would be no distinction under the
act between income and "property or invested capital."
That proceeds of sales of capital are not income, see:
Stevens v. Hudson's Bay Co., 101 L. T. Rep. 96; Secretary
of State for India v. Scoble, 89 L.'T. Rep. 1; Baldwin
Locomotive Works v. McCoach, 215. Fed. Rep. 967, 969.
That is capital which is owned by a taxpayer at the
time of the incidence of the tax, and to the extent of its
value at that time, money into which the property is
afterward converted, is not to be considered as income
which can form the basis of taxation.
The respondents were entitled to deduct the amount of
the royalties as "a reasonable allowance for depreciation
of property," under the act. Omission to enter them in a
depreciation account was not material, and the Commissioner's regulation to the contrary was an unlawful
extension of the act. The question of depreciation was one
of fact. Bailey v. Railroad Company, 106 U. S. 109. As a
fact the capital value of the contracts, as it was when the
act took effect, was diminished by the amount of the
subsequent payments. This was "depreciation," under
,the act. See the Income Tax Law of September 8, 1916,.
§§ 10 and 12, 39 Stat. 756.
Stratton's Independewe v. Howbert is consistent with the
foregoing propositions.

VON BAUMBACH v. SARGENT LAND CO.
242 U. S.

511

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
These three cases were argued and submitted together
and involve practically the same facts. Suits were brought
by the corporations named in the United States District
Court for the District of Minnesota against the Collector
of Internal Revenue, to recover certain taxes, paid under
protest, assessed under the Corporation Tax Law of 1909,
36 Stat. 11, 112, for the years 1909, 1910 and 1911. The
judgments inthe District Court were for the respondents
(207 Fed.Rep.423), which judgments were affirmed inthe
Circuit Court of Appeals. 219 Fed. Rep.31.
In 1890, John S. Pillsbury, George A. Pillsbury and
Charles A. Pillsbury, doing business together as John S.
Pillsbury & Company, were the owners of large tracts of
lands innorthern Minnesota,which had been acquired for
the timber and from which the'timber had been cut, being
valuable after such severance of the timber for the mineral
deposits contained therein. In the year named, the Pillsburys entered into an arrangement with John M. Longyear and Russell M. Bennett, authorizing the latter two to
explore the lands for iron deposits. In 1892, Longyear
and Bennett having discovered valuable deposits of iron
ore, a half interest in something over ten thousand acres
of the lands was conveyed to them, the lands thereafter
being owned by the Pillsburys, John, George and Charles,
each an undivided sixth, and John M. Longyear and
Russell M. Bennett each an undivided fourth. In the
year 1901, the Pillsburys having died, these corporations
were formed under the laws of Minnesota. In 1906, the
ownership of these leased lands was vested in the three
corporations named as respondents in the proceedings.
As originally organized, the nature of the business was
stated to be "the buying, owning, exploring and developing, leasing, improving, selling and dealing in, lands,
tenements 'and hereditaments, and the doing of all things

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

necessary or incidental to the things above specified."
In December, 1909, the articles of incorporation were
amended to read as follows: "The general purpose of the
corporation is to unite in one ownership the undivided
fractional interests of its various stockholders in lands,
tenements and hereditaments, and to own such property,
and, for the convenience of its stockholders, to receive,
and distribute to them, the proceeds of any disposition
of such property at such times, in such amounts, and
in such manner, as the board of directors may determine."
All of the mining leases, hereinafter mentioned, with
the exception of a contract with the Van Buren Mining
Company, were executed before the organization- of the
corporations. Each of these instruments provided that
the owners of the property demised to the lessees, exclusively, all the lands covered by the descriptions for the
purpose of exploring for, mining and removing the merchantable iron ore which might be found therein for and
during the period named, usually fifty years. The lessees
were given exclusive right to occupy and control the
demised premises and to erect all necessary buildings,
structures and improvements thereon. Right was reserved to the lessors to enter for the purpose of measuring
the amount of ore mined and removed and making observations of the operations in the mines. The lessees
agreed to pay, in most cases, twenty-five cents per ton for
all ore mined and removed, and to make such payments
monthly for ore mined and shipped during the preceding
month. The lessees agreed to mine and ship a specified
quantity of ore'in each year, and, in default of this, to pay
the lessors for the minimum amount specified, and take
credit therefor and apply such sums upon ore mined and
shipped thereafter in excess of such minimum. The
lessees were to pay the taxes and to keep the property free
from encumbrances and liens. Right was reserved to

VON BAUMBACH v. SARGENT LAND CO.
242 U. S.

513

Opinion of the Court.

terminate the contract upon the failure of the lessees to
comply with the terms thereof.
The form of the leases is shown in Exhibits 15 and 16,
which were not in the printed record, owing to their
length, but copies of which, pursuant to stipulation, have
been sent to this court. An examination of Exhibit 16
shows that the lessees had the right to terminate and
surrender the lease by giving the lessors, or those having
their estate in the premises, sixty days' written notice, and
executing sufficient conveyances releasing all interest and
right of the lessees in the premises with any improvements
thereon, and surrendering the same in good order and
condition, etc., and that thereupon all liability of the
lessees to taxes subsequently assessed on the demised
premises or for rent thereof thereafter to accrue, or royalty
on ores therefrom except on account of ores removed,
should cease and determine; the lessees to be liable for all
ores removed from the premises not theretofore paid
for,. and to pay for the premises rent or royalty for the
year in which termination should be made, or the portion thereof which should have expired, at the rate of
$12,500.00 per annum.
Since their organization the corporations have disposed
of certain lands and have also disposed of the stumpage
on some timber lands. Certain parcels were rented and
leased, and a village was allowed to use part of the land for
schoolhouse purposes, as well as another part for a public
park.
To insure the proper carrying on of the mining operations, the companies employed another corporation, engaged in engineering and inspection of ore properties, to
provide supervision and inspection of the work upon the
respondents' properties, for which the inspecting company
was paid from month to month, as statements were
rendered.
The companies were assessed upon their gross income,

OCTOBER TERM, 1916. Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

being the entire receipts of the companies :from royalties
on the leases collected in the years 1909, 1910, and 1911,
and some sums received from the sales of lots, lands and
stumpage, from which expenses and taxes were deducted,
but no deduction was made upon account of the depletion
of the ore in the properties, or on account of such sales.
The brief for the respondents states that these cases
present for consideration four questions, which are:
"1. Are the respondents corporations organized for
profit?
"2. Were the respondents carrying on or doing business
during the years 1909, 1910, 1911?
"3. Were moneys :received by the respondents during
those years in payment for iron ore, under the contracts
covering their mineral lands, gross income, or did they
represent, in whole or in part, the conversion of the investment of the corporations from ore into money?
"4. If such moneys were gross income, are the respondents entitled to make any deduction therefrom on account
of the depletion of their capital investment?"
As to the first question, whether these corporations were
organized for profit, there can be no difficulty. They certainly do not come within the exceptional character of
charitable or eleemosynary organizations excepted from
the operation of the act. We need not dwell upon the
obvious purpose of these corporations, organized under
the provisions of the Minnesota statute concerning companies organized for profit, to pursue gain and to profit
because (if their operations.
As to the second question: werp the respondents carrying on business, within the meaning of the Corporation
Tax Act? This question was de!lt with by this court in
the first of the Corporation Tax Cases, Flint v. StoneTracy Company, 220 U. S. 107. As the tax was there held
to be assessed upon the privilege of doing business in a
corporate capacity, it became necessary to inquire what

VON BAUMBACH v. SARGENT LAND CO.
242 U. S.

515

Opinion of the Court.

it was to do business, and this court adopted with approval
the definition, judicially approved in other cases, which
included within the comprehensive term "business "
"that which occupies the time, attention and labor of
men for the purpose of a livelihood or profit."
. In that case a number of realty and mining companies
were dealt with, and the Park Realty Company, organized
to deal in real estate, and engaged at the time in the management and leasing of a certain hotel, was held to be
engaged in business. It was also held that the Clark Iron
Company, organized under the laws of Minnesota, and
owning and leasing ore lands for the purpose of carrying
on mining operations, and receiving a royalty depending
upon the quantity of ore mined, was engaged in business.
At. the same time, and decided with the main Corporation Tax Case, this court held, in the case of Zonne v.
Minneapolis Syndicate, 220 U. S. 187, that a corporation
which owned a piece of real estate which had been leased
for 130 years, at an annual rental of $61,000, and which
had amended its articles of incorporation so as to limit its
purposes to holding the title to the property mentioned,
and, for the convenience of its stockholders, to receiving
and distributing from time to time the rentals that accrued under the lease and the proceeds of any disposition
of the land, was not engaged in doing business within the
meaning of the act, by reason of the fact that the corporation had practically gone out of business and had disqualified itself from any activity in respect thereto.
The act next came before this court in the case of McCoach, Collector, v. Minehill & Schuylkill Haven R. R. Co.,
228 U. S. 295, in which it was held, distinguishing the case
of the Park Realty Company, supra, and applying the case
of Zonne v. Minneapolis Syndicate, supra, to the facts
before the court, that a corporation which had leased all
its property to another, and was doing only what was
necessary to receive and distribute the income therefrom

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

among stockholders, was not doing business within the
meaning of the act.
In United States v. Emery, Bird, Thayer Realty Co., 237
U. S. 28, this court held that a corporation which merely
kept up its organization, distributing rent received from a
single lessee, was not doing business within the meaning of
the act.
It is evident, from what this court has said in dealing
with the former .cases, that the decision in each instance
must depend upon the particular facts before the court.
The fair test to be derived from a consideration of all of
them is between a corporation which has reduced its
activities to the owning and holding of property and the
distribution of its avails and doing only the acts necessary
to continue that status, and one which is still active and is
maintaining its organization for the purpose of continued
efforts in the pursuit of profit and gain and such activities
as are essential to those purposes.
From the facts clearly established in these cases, we
think these corporations were doing business, within the
meaning of the act. They were organized for the purposes
stated, and their activities included something more than
the mere holding of property and the distribution of the
receipts thereof. As was found by the District Court, the
evidence shows that these three companies sold, during
each of the years named, quantities of real estate, and the
same were not small. They sold stumpage from some of
the properties which had been burned over, leased certain
properties in the village of Hibbing, and granted leases to
squatters. One of the companies made explorations and
incurred expenses in the matter of test pits. They employed another company to see that the mining operations
were properly carried on, and that the lessees lived up to
the engagements of their contracts. "All these things
indicate," said the learned District Judge, "the doing of
and engaging in bliess, It [the corporation] was doing

VON BAUMBACH v. SARGENT LAND CO.
242 U. S.

517

Opinion of the Court.

the business of handling a large property, selling lots, and
seeing that the lessees lived up to their contracts. If that
is not engaging in business, I do not know what is." We
agree that it certainly was doing business, and, as the
Corporation Tax Act requires no particular amount of
business in order to bring a company within its terms, we
think these activities brought the corporations in question
within that line of decisions in this court which have held
such corporations were doing business in a corporate
capacity within the meaning of the law.
Next, is it true, as contended by the Government, that
the payments for ore mined, under the contracts covering
the mineral lands, are income, within the meaning of the
act; or do they represent the conversion of the investment
of the corporations from ore into money?
The nature of these mining leases has been the subject
of some difference of opinion in the courts. The Circuit
Court of Appeals in this case took the view announced in
some of the earlier cases, notably in Pennsylvania, that
the leases were such in name only, and were in fact conveyances of the ore in place as part of the realty, and that
the so-called royalties merely represented payments for
so much of the land and were in no just sense income, but
mere conversions*of the capital.
These lands are situated in Minnesota, and this character of lease has long been familiar in that State, as a
means of securing the development and operation of
mining properties. Some years before the passage of the
Corporation Tax Act, the Supreme Court of Minnesota
had dealt with the character of such instruments. In the
case of State v. Evans, 99 Minnesota, 220, that court, after
a review of the English and American cases, said (p. 227):
"The propriety of a lease for the purpose of developing
and working mines is recognized by all of the cases, and
the rule established by the great weight of authority that
such leases do not constitute a sale of any part of the land,

518

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

Opinion of the Court.

242 U..S.

and, further, that iron or other materials derived from the
usual operation of open mines, or quarries, constitute the
rents and profits of the land, and belong to the tenant for
life or years, and to the mortgagor after sale on foreclosure,
and before the expiration of the time for redemption. The
rule, however, has no application to unopened mines in the
absence of a contract, express or implied, for opening and
leasing them."
The same doctrine was held in Boeing v. Owsiey, 122
Minnesota, 190, and in the late case of State v. Royal
Mineral Association, 132 Minnesota, 232, in which the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals in this case, that such
leases were merely conveyances of the ore in place, was
brought to the attention of the-court, and that conclusion
expressly denied, the Supreme Court of Minnesota saying:
"We adhere to the doctrine of the Evans and Boeing
Cases, and hold these instruments leases. It follows
logically that the amounts stipulated to be paid by the
lessees are rents, and they were expressly held by this court
to be rents in the Boeing Case, supra, a case which involved
a construction of the very leases now before the court.
They are 'the compensation which tl~e occupier pays the
landlord for that species of occupation which the contract
between them allows.' Lord Dennison, in Queen v. Westbrook, 10 Q. B. 178, 205."
These conclusions of the Supreme Court of Minnesota
are not only made concerning contracts in that State, such
as are here involved, but are supported by many authorities.' Ordinarily, and as between private parties, there
Raynolds v. Hanna,55 Fed. Rep. 783, 800,801; Tennessee Oil &c. Co.
v. Brown, 131 Fed. Rep. 696, 700 (opinion by Lurton, J.); Browning v.
Boswell, 215 Fed. Rep. 826, 834; Backer v. Penn Lubricating Co., 162
Fed. Rep. 627; Young v. Ellis, 91 Va. 297; Gartside v. Outley, 58 Ill.
210; Genet v. Delaware and Hudson Canal Co., 136 N. Y. 593, 602;
Lacey v. Newcomb, 95 Iowa, 287; Austin v. Huntsville Coal & Mining
Co., 72 Mo. 535; Brown v. Fowler, 65 Ohio St. 507, 521; Queen v. Westbrook, 10 Q. B. 178, 205.

VON BAUMBACH v.'SARGENT LAND CO.
242 U. S.

519

Opinion of the Court.

is no question of the duty of the federal court to follow
these decisions of the Minnesota Supreme Court, as a rule
of real property long established by state decisions., Kuhn
v. Fairmont Coal Company, 215 U. S.349, 360. Whether
in considering this federal statute we should be constrained
to follow the established law of the State, as is contended
by the Government, we do not need to determine. The
decisive question in this case is whether the payments
made as so-called royalties amount to income so as to
bring such payments within the scope of the Corporation
Tax Act of 1909. The prior decisions' of this court in
Stratton's Independence v. Howbert, 231 U. S. 399, and
Stanton v. Baltic Mining Company, 240 U. S.103, in which
the Stratton Case was followed and approved, are decisive
of this question. In the Stratton Case, certain questions
were certified to this court from the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. The case was tried upon
an agreed statement of facts, from which it appeared, "'as
to the year 1909, that the company extracted from its
lands during the year certain ores bearing gold and other
precious metals, which were sold by it for sums largely in
excess of the cost of mininRg, extracting, and marketing the
same, that the gross sales amounted to $284,682.85, the
cost of extracting, mining and marketing amounted to
$190,939.42, and 'the value of said ores so extracted in the
year 1909, when in place in said mine and before extraction thereof, was $93,743.43.' With respectto the operations of the company for the year 1910, the agreed facts
were practically the same, except as.to dates and amounts.
It does not appear that the so-called 'value of the ore in
place,' or any other sum, was actually charged off upon
the books of the company as depreciation." The Circuit
Court of Appeals certified three questions to this court:
"I. Does Section 38 of the Act of Congress, entitled 'An
Act to provide revenue, equalize duties, and encourage the
industries of the United States, and for other purposes,'

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

approved August 5, 1909 (36 Stat., p. 11), apply to mining
corporations? II. Are the proceeds of ores mined by a
corporation from its own premises income within the
meaning of the aforementioned Act of Congress? III. If
the proceeds from ore sales are to be treated as income, is
such a corporation entitled to deduct the value of such ore
in place and before it is mined as depreciation within the
meaning of Section 38 of said Act of Congress?" This
court answered the first and second questions certified in
the affirmative, and the third question in the negative.
In that case, as here, it was contended that the proceeds
of the mining operations resulting from a conversion of
the capital represented by real estate into capital represented by cash are in no true sense income. As to this
contention, this court said:
"The peculiar character of mining property is sufficiently obvious. Prior to development it may present
to the naked eye a mere tract of land with barren surface,
and of no practical value except for what may be found
beneath. Then follow excavation, discovery, development, extraction of ores, resulting eventually, if the process be thorough, in the complete exhaustion of the mineral
contents so far as they are worth removing. Theoretically,
and according to the argument, the entire value of the
mine, as ultimately developed, existed from the beginning.
Practically, however, and from the commercial standpoint, the value-that is; the exchangeable or market
value-depends upon different considerations. Beginning
from little, when the existence, character and extent of the
ore deposits are problematical, it may increase steadily
or rapidly so long as discovery and development outrun
depletion, and the wiping out of the value by the practical
exhaustion of the mine may be deferred for a long term of
years. While not ignoring the importance of such considerations, we do not think they afford the sole test for
determining the legislative intent."

VON BAUMBACH v. SARGENT LAND CO.
242 U. S.

521

Opinion of the Court.

This court held that it was not correct to say that a
mining corporation was not engaged in business, but was
merely occupied in converting its capital assets from one
form to another, and that while a sale outright of a mining
property might be fairly described as a conversion of the
capital from land into money, the process of mining is, in a
sense, equivalent to a manufacturing process, and however
the operation shall be described, the transaction is indubitably "business" within the meaning of the Act of
1909, and the gains derived from it are properly the income
from business, derived from capital, from labor, or from
both combined. Further, "as to the alleged inequality
of operation between mining corporations and others, it is
of course true that the revenues derived from the working
of mines result to some extent in the exhaustion of the
capital. But the same is true of the earnings of the human brain and hand when unaided by capital, yet such
earnings are commonly dealt with in legislation as income.
So it may be said of many manufacturing corporations
that are clearly subject to the act of 1909, especially of
those that have to do with the production of patented
articles; although it may be foretold from the beginning that the manufacture will be profitable only for a
limited time, at the end of which the capital value of
the plant must be subject to material depletion, the
annual gains. of such corporations are certainly to be
taken as income for the purpose of measuring the amount
of the tax."
It is contended that this case is inapplicable, because
the facts disclose that the ores were being mined by a
corporation upon its own premises. In our view, this
makes no difference in the application of the principles
upon which the case was decided. We think that the
payments made by the lessees to the corporations now
before the court were not in substance the proceeds of an
outright sale of a mining property, but, in view of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

terms of these instruments, were in fact rents or royalties
to be paid upon entering into the premises and discovering,
developing and removing the mineral resources thereof,
and as such must be held now as then, to come fairly
within the term income as intended to be reached and
taxed under the terms of the Corporation Tax Act.
In Stanton v. Baltic Mining Company, supra,the Income
Tax Law of :1913 was before the court, and it was contended that the clause in that act, limiting the mines to a
maximum depreciation allowance of five per cent. of their
annual gross receipts or output of ore deposits, was unconstitutional, or, if that provision was inseparable from
the rest of the act, the entire Income Tax Law, as applied
to mining companies, was unconstitutional. Replying to
the argument advanced by the mining company in that
case, this court said that it rested upon the wholly fallacious assumption that, looked at from the point of view of
substance, a tax on the product of a mine was necessarily
a tax upon the property because of its ownership unless
adequate allowance be made for the exhaustion of the ore
body resulting from the working of the mine; and, further,
"We say wholly fallacious assumption because independently of the effect of the operation of the Sixteenth
Amendment it was settled in Stratton's Independence v.
Howbert, 231 U. S. 399, that such a tax is not a tax upon
property as such because of its ownership, but a true excise
levied on the results of the business of carrying on mining
operations."
We think it results from the principles announced in
these decisions that in such cases as are now under consideration, the corporation being within the meaning of
the act organized for profit and doing business, it is subject to the tax upon its income derived from the royalties
under these leases.
This brings us to the fourth and last question in the
case, as to whether allowance should be made for deprecia-

VON BAUMBACH v. SARGENT LAND CO.
242 U. S.

523

Opinion of the.Court.

tion on account of the depletion of the property by removing the ores from the mines in question.
The contention of respondents in this behalf is, that if
the court shall find that the moneys received by them
under their mining contracts can be deemed gross income,
in whole or in part, they are entitled to deduct therefrom,
as a reasonable allowance for depreciation, the full amount
of the money so received, for the reason that they represent a mere transmutation of capital assets, being, in
legal effect, the selling price of their rights in the mineral
deposits on or before January 1, 1909, and which, by
virtue of the mining contracts then outstanding, had been
previously sold for the exact amounts of such receipts.
The statement of facts in the case of Stratton's Independence, supra, as the court states on pages 418 and
419, developed from the certificate, was:
"From that certificate it appears that the case was submitted to the trial court and a verdict directed upon an
agreed statement of facts, and in that statement the gross
proceeds of the sale of the ores during the year were
diminished by the moneys expended in extracting, mining,
and marketing the ores, and the precise difference was
taken to be the value of the ores when in place in the
mine. .
"It is clear that a definition of the 'value of the ore in
place' has been intentionally adopted that excludes all
allowance of profit upon the process of mining, and attributes the entire profit upon the mining operations to
the mine itself. In short, the parties propose to estimate
the depreciation of the mining property attributable to the
extraction of ores according to principles that would be applicable if the ores had been removed by a trespasser."
It is true that in the case of Stratton's Independence,
supra, the decision upon the question of depreciaiion was
predicated upon the facts stated in the certificate presented to the court, and it was said, at page 422:

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

"It would therefore be improper for us at this time to
enter into the question whether the clause, 'a reasonable
allowance for depreciation of property, if any,' calls for an
allowance on that account in making up the tax, where no
depreciation is charged in practical bookkeeping; or the
question whether depreciation, when allowable, may properly be based upon the depletion of the ore supply estimated otherwise than in the mode shown by the agreed
statement of facts herein; for to do this wotild be to
attribute a different meaning to the term 'value of the ore
in place' than the parties have put upon it, and to instruct
the Circuit Court of Appeals respecting a question about
which instruction has not been requested, and concerning
which it does not appear that any issue is dependihg
before that court."
It therefore follows that we have the question of depreciation in this case presented under somewhat different
circumstances than were outlined in the opinion in the
case of Stratton's Independence.
The statute permits deduction of "all losses actually
sustained within the year . . . including a reasonable
allowance for depreciation of property." What was here
meant by "depreciation of property"? We think Congress used the expression in its ordinary and usual sense as
understood by business men. It is common knowledge
that business concerns usually keep a depreciation account, in which is charged off the annual losses for wear
and tear, and obsolescence of structures, machinery and
personalty in use in the business. We do not think Congress intended to cover the necessary depreciation of a
mine by exhaustion of the ores in determining the income
to be assessed under the statute by including such exhaustion within the allowance made for depreciation. It
would be a strained use of the term depreciation to say
that, where ore is taken from a mine in the operation of
the property, depreciation, as generally understood in

VON BAUMBACH v. SARGENT LAND CO.
242 U. S.

525

Opinion of the Court.

business circles, follows. True, the value of the mine is
lessened from the partial exhaustion of the property, and,
owing to its peculiar character, cannot be replaced. But
in no accurate sense can such exhaustion of the body of the
ore be deemed depreciation. It is equally true that there
seems to be a hardship in taxing such receipts as income,
without some deduction arising from the fact that the
mining property is being continually reduced by the
removal of the minerals. But such consideration will not
justify this court *in attributing to depreciation a sense
which we do not believe Congress intended to give to it
in the Act of 1909.
It may be admitted that a fair argument arises from
equitable considerations that, owing to the nature of
mining property, an allowance in assessing taxes upon
income should be made for the removal of the ore deposits
from time to time. Congress recognized this fact in passing the Income Tax section of the Tariff Act of 1913,
§ II, 38 Stat. 166, 167, when it permitted "a reasonable
allowance for the exhaustion, wear and tear of property
arising out of its use or employment in the business, not to
exceed, in the case of mines, 5 per centum of the gross value
at the mine of the output for the year for which the computation is made; " and in the Income Tax Law of September 8, 1916, 39 Stat. 756, 769, a reasonable allowance is
made in the cases of mines for depletion thereof, "not to
exceed the market value in the mine of the product thereof
which has been mined and sold during the year for which
the return and computation are made." These provisions
were not in the Act of 1909, and, as we have said, we think
that Congress, in that act, used the term "depreciation"
in its ordinary and usual significance. We therefore reach
the conclusion that no allowance can be made of the character contended for as an item of depreciation.
No contention is made in the brief for an allowance
because of sales of stumpage, lots and lands belonging to

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

242 U. S.

the companies, as an exhaustion of the capital assets, and
evidently the case was brought for the purpose of testing
the right of the companies to deduct the royalties agreed
to be~pid to them upon the removal of the minerals from
the lands from the sums for- which they were severally
assessed.
For the reasons stated, we think the Circuit Court of
Appeals and the District Court erred in the judgments
rendered, and the same will be reversed and the cases remanded to the District Court for further proceedings, if
any are sought, upon claim of right to deduct the value of
the lands, lots and stumpage sold from the assessments
made.
Judgments reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the con-

sideration and decision of these cases.

THOMAS CUSACK COMPANY v. CITY OF CHICAGO ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TH
No. 126.

STATE OF ILLINOIS.

Argued December 20, 21, 1916.-Decided January 15, 1917.

The Fifth Amendment relates to national action only.
A city ordinance, which has been upheld by the highest court of the
State as valid under the state legislation, is to be regarded by this
court as a law of the State and is to be tested accordingly.
Such an ordinance, when dealing with a subject within the police
power, must be upheld unless shown to be clearly unreasonable,
arbitrary or discrirainatory.
A city, exercising the police power, may prohibit the erection of billboards in residence districts, in the interest of the safety, morality,
health and decency of the community.

