OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

242 U. S.

the companies, as an exhaustion of the capital assets, and
evidently the case was brought for the purpose of testing
the right of the companies to deduct the royalties agreed
to be~pid to them upon the removal of the minerals from
the lands from the sums for- which they were severally
assessed.
For the reasons stated, we think the Circuit Court of
Appeals and the District Court erred in the judgments
rendered, and the same will be reversed and the cases remanded to the District Court for further proceedings, if
any are sought, upon claim of right to deduct the value of
the lands, lots and stumpage sold from the assessments
made.
Judgments reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the con-

sideration and decision of these cases.

THOMAS CUSACK COMPANY v. CITY OF CHICAGO ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TH
No. 126.

STATE OF ILLINOIS.

Argued December 20, 21, 1916.-Decided January 15, 1917.

The Fifth Amendment relates to national action only.
A city ordinance, which has been upheld by the highest court of the
State as valid under the state legislation, is to be regarded by this
court as a law of the State and is to be tested accordingly.
Such an ordinance, when dealing with a subject within the police
power, must be upheld unless shown to be clearly unreasonable,
arbitrary or discrirainatory.
A city, exercising the police power, may prohibit the erection of billboards in residence districts, in the interest of the safety, morality,
health and decency of the community.

CUSACK CO. v. CITY OF CHICAGO.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Such a prohibition is not to be deemed unduly discriminatory because
not including fences and other structures, found less likely to become
a source of public injury.
An ordinance prohibiting billboards is not invalidated by a provision
which removes the prohibition as to any billboard the erection of
which is first consented to by the owners of a majority of the frontage
on both sides of the street in the block in which it is to be erected.
Eubank v. Richmond, 226 U. S. 137, distinguished.
He who is not injured by the operation of a law or ordinance can not
be said to be depived by it of either constitutional right or of property.
,67 Illinois, 344, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. John S. Hummer, with whom Mr. James E. McGrath was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Loring R. Hoover and Mr. Chester E. Cleveland, with
whom Mt. Samuel A. Ettelson was on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE

delivered the opinion of the court.

In this proceeding the plaintiff in error, a corporation
engaged in "outdoor advertising," claims that ยง 707 of
article 23 of an ordinance of the City of Chicago, governing the erection and maintenance of billboards in that
city, is unconstitutional.
This section is as follows:
"707. Frontage consents required. It shall be unlawful
for any person, firm or corporation to erect or construct
any billboard or signboard in any block on any public
street in which one-half of the buildings on both sides of
the street are used exclusively for residence purposes
without first obtaining the consent in writing of the
owners or duly authorized agents of said owners owning a
majority of the frontage of the property on both sides of
the street in the block in which such billboard or sign-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

board is to be erected, constructed or located. Such
written consents shall be filed with the Commissioner of
Buildings before a permit shall be issued for the erection,
construction or location of such billboard or signboard."
The plaintiff in error expressly concedes in this court
that it is within the police power of the City of Chicago
to exercise within the city limits a reasonable regulation
and control over the construction and maintenance of
bil boards and other similar structures. But it is contended that the section quoted is in terms " an arbitrary,
unrestrained" exercise of power which, if given effect,
could be used without any regard "to the safety,, health,
morals, comfort or welfare of the public" and that it
therefore offends against the Fifth and Fourteenth
Amendments to the Constitution of the United States.
Obviously, claims made under the Fifth Amendment
need not be considered, Livingston v. Moore, 7 Pet. 469,
551; Lloyd v. Dollison, 194 U. S. 445, and there remains
only the question whether the ordinance, if enforced,
would work "a denial to the plaintiff in error of the equal
protection of the laws" or would "deprive it of its property without due process of law."
The claimed infirmity in the ordinance consists in the
requirement that before any billboard or signboard of
over twelve square feet in area may be erected in any
block in which one-half of the buildings are used exclusively for residence purposes the owners of a majority of
the frontage of the property on both sides of the street in
such block shall consent in writing thereto. This, it is
claimed, is not an exercise by the city of power to regulate
or control the construction and maintenance of billboards,
but is a delegation of legislative power to the owners of a
majority of the frontage of the property in the block "to
subject the use to be made of their property by the minority owners of property in such block to the whims and
caprices of their neighbors,"

CUSACK CO. v. CITY OF CHICAGO.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The Supreme Court of the State of Illinois sustained the
validity of the ordinance in an opinion (267 Illinois, 344)
which declares that the act of the legislature of that State,
passed in 1912, Hurd's Stat. 1913, c. 24, par. 696, is a
clear legislative declaration that the subject of billboard
advertising shall be subject to municipal control.
It is settled for this court by this decision that the
ordinance assailed is within the scope of the power conferred on the City of Chicago by the legislature, that it is
to be treated as proceeding from the law-making power of
the State, and that, therefore, it is a valid ordinance
unless the record shows it to be clearly unreasonable and
arbitrary. Reinman v. Little Rock, 237 U. S. 171.
Upon the question of the reasonableness of the ordinance, much evidence was introduced upon the trial
of the case, from which the Supreme Court finds that fires
had been started in the accumulation of combustible
material which gathered about such billboards; that
offensive and insanitary accumulations are habitually
found about them, and that they afford a convenient
concealment and shield for immoral practices, and for
loiterers and criminals. As bearing upon the limitation of
the requirement of the section to blocks "used exclusively
-for residence purposes," the court finds that the trial
court erroneously refused to allow testimony to be introduced tending to show that residence sections of the city
did not have as full police or fire protection as other sections have, and that the streets of such sections are more
frequented by unprotected women and children than, and
are not so well lighted as, other sections of the city are,
and that most of the crimes against women and children
are offenses against their persons.
Neglecting the testimony, which was excluded by the
trial court, there remains sufficient to convincingly show
the propriety of putting billboards, as distinguished from
buildings and fences, in a class by themselves, St. Louis

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

Gunning Advertising Co. v. St. Louis, 235 Missouri, 99,
and to justify the prohibition against their erection in
residence districts of a city in the interest of the safety,
morality, health and decency of the community.
The claim is palpably frivolous that the validity of the
ordinance is impaired by the provision that such billboards
may be erected in such districts as are described if the
consent in writing is obtained of the owners of a majority
of the frontage on both sides of the street in any block in
which such billboard is to be erected. The plaintiff in
error cannot be injured, but obviously may be benefited
by this provision, for without it the prohibition of the
erection of such billboards in such residence sections is
absolute. He who is not injured by the operation of a law
or ordinance cannot be said to be deprived by it of either
constitutional right or of property. Tyler v. Judges of
Registration, 179 U. S. 405; Plymouth Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 531. To this we may add that such a
reference to a neighborhood of the propriety of having
carried on within it trades or occupations, which are
properly the subject of regulation in the exercise of the
police power, is not uncommon in laws which have been
sustained against every possible claim of unconstitutionality, such as the right to maintain saloons, Swift v. People,
162 Illinois, 534, and as to the location of garages, People
v. Ericsson, 263 Illinois, 368. Such treatment is plainly
applicable to offensive structures.
The principles governing the exercise
of the police
power have received such frequent application and have
been so elaborated upon in recent decisions of this court,
concluding with Armour & Company v. North Dakota, 240
U. S. 510, 514, that further discussion of them would not
be profitable, especially in a case falling as clearly as this
one does within their scope. We therefore content ourselves with saying that while this court has refrained from
any attempt to define with precision the limits of the police

CUSACK CO. v. CITY OF CHICAGO.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

power, yet its disposition is to favor the validity of laws
relating to matters completely within the territory of the
State enacting them and it so reluctantly disagrees with
the local legislative authority, primarily the judge of the
public welfare, especially when its action is. approved by
the highest court of the State whose people are directly
concerned, that it will interfere with the action of such
authority only when it is plain and palpable that it has no
real or substantial relation to the public health, safety,
morals, or to the general welfare. Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11, 30. And this, for the reasons stated,
cannot be said of the ordinance which we have here.
The plaintiff in error relies chiefly upon Eubank v.
Richmond, 226 U. S. 137. A sufficient distinction between
the ordinance there considered and the one at bar is plain.
The former left the establishment of the building line untouched until the lot owners should act and then made
the street committee the mere automatic register of
that action and gave to it the effect of law. The ordinance in the case at bar absolutely prohibits the erection
of any billboards in the blocks designated, but permits
this prohibition to be modified with the consent of the
persons who are to be most affected by such modification.
The one ordinance permits two-thirds of the lot owners to
impose restrictions upon the other property in the block,
while the other permits one-half of the lot owners to remove a restriction from the other property owners. This
is not a delegation of legislative power, but is, as we have
seen, a familiar provision affecting the enforcement of
laws and ordinances.
It results that the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Illinois will be
Affirmed.

Dissenting: MR.

JUSTICE MCKENNA.

