OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

242 U. S.

SETON HALL COLLEGE v. VILLAGE OF SOUTH
ORANGE ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW
JERSEY.
No. 74. Submitted November 3, 1916.-Decided December 4, 1916.
Nine years after the incorporation and establishment of a college under
special charter, a supplemental act declared that its property should
be exempt from taxation. Long afterward, a general tax law was
passed repealing all general-and special acts inconsistent with its
terms, and thereunder a-portion of the college property, consisting
of farm buildings and pasture land, necessary for its use but not
productive of income, was assessed for taxation. No previous attempt had been made to tax any part of its property. The collage,
however, entered upon no new undertaking when the exemption
was given, nor promised nor parted, with anything because of it.
Furthermore, there was in force at that time a law providing that
every charter to be granted should be subject to alteration, suspension or repeal in the discretion of the legislature.
Held: (1) That it was reasonable to assume that the exemption was
extended subject to the right of alteration and repeal. New Jersey
v. Yard, 95 U. S. 104, distinguished.
(2) That, in view of this and the apparent absence of any promise made
or burden assumed in reliance on the exemption, this court was not
prepared to hold that the state court erred in holding the exemption
a revocable privilege. Home of the Friendless v. Rbuse, 8 Wall. 430,
and University v. People, 99 U. S. 309, distinguished.
In determining whether there is a contract which has been impaired
by subsequent legislation, this court, though exercising its right of
independent examination, accords much consideration and respect
to the decision of the state court construing the state statutes involved in the inquiry.
To all claims of contract exemption from taxation must be applied the
well settled rule that, as the power to tax is an exercise of the sovereign authority of the State, essential to its existence, the fact of its
surrender in favor of a corporation or an individual must be shown
in language which cannot be otherwise reasonably construed, and

SETON HALL COLLEGE v. SOUTH ORANGE. 101
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

all doubts which arise as to the intent to make such contract are to
be resolved in favor of the State.
86 N. J. L. 365, affirmed.

Tm case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. William J. Kearns for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Adrian Riker for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of New
Jersey, seeking to reverse a judgment of that court, which
judgment was affirmed, by the Court of Errors and Appeals of New Jersey (86 N. J. L. 365) and the record remitted to the Supreme Court. The case involves the
validity of a tax levied by the assessor of the Village of
South Orange, for the year 1911, the contention being
that the act of the legislature of New Jersey of March 16th,
1870, hereinafter referred to, constituted a contract which
could not be repealed by subsequent legislation without
doing violence to the contract clause of the Constitution
of the United States.
The case was heard by the Board of Equalization of
Taxes of New Jersey, and by the Supreme Court of that
State, upon a stipulation of facts:
"(1) Seton Hall College was incorporated under an
act of the Legislature of the State of New Jersey entitled
'An Act to incorporate Seton Hall College,' Chapter 86
of the Laws of 1861, pages 198 and 199, approved March 8,
1861.
"(2) A supplement to said act was passed, being Chapter 167 of the Laws of 1870, entitled 'Supplement to an Act
to Incorporate Seton Hall College', approved March 8th,
1861, which supplement was approved March 16th, 1870.
"(3) The act incorporating Drew Theological Semi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

nary of the Methodist Episcopal Church, referred to in
the supplement above mentioned, was approved February 12th, 1868 (Laws of 1868, Chap. 2, p. 4).
"(4) That Seton Hall College accepted its charter contained in the Laws of 1861 aforesaid, and thereafter purchased real and personal property from time to time,
erected college buildings thereon and continuously since
has been and still is actively engaged in carrying out the
purposes of'its creation and fulfilling its obligations imposed by its said charter, and has been and is exercising
all the powers granted by said charter.
"(5) After the supplement to its charter was passed in
.1870, Seton Hall College accepted the same, and purchased further lands and erected further buildings, and
has continued ever since to live up to the terms of both
acts and carry out the purposes of its creation, and has
been and is exercising all the powers granted thereby.
"(6) That the lands in question with other lands were
acquired by the College by a conveyance dated the 17th
day of October, Eighteen Hundred and Sixty-four, and
recorded in the office of the Register of the County of
Essex on the 21st day of February, Eighteen Hundred
and Sixty-five, in Book M-12 of Deeds for said County
on page 343.
"(7) That no assessment or tax has been levied br imposed upon the property, real and personal, of Seton Hall
College from the date of its original charter in 1861, down
to the year 1911; and the tax in question, imposed in the
year 1911, is the first tax imposed or attempted to be imposed upon the property of said Seton Hall College, real
or personal."
From the act of 1861, under which Seton Hall College
was incorporated, it appears that the object of the incorporation is the advancement of education, and that
the corporation was given the right to have and possess
the authority to confer academic and other degrees granted

.

SETON HALL COLLEGE v. SOUTH ORANGE. 103

242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

by other colleges in the State. The act of 1870, referred
to in the stipulation, extended to Seton Hall College the
privileges which were granted to Drew Theological Seminary, in relation to the exemption of real and personal
property of the corporation from assessment and taxation. The act incorporating the Drew Theological Seminary provided that the property of the corporation, real
and personal, should be exempt from assessment, and
taxation. In 1875 the constitution of New Jersey was
amended so as to provide that property should be assessed
for taxation under general laws and uniform rules, according to its true value. In 1903, the legislature passed a
taxation law (4 N. J. Comp. Stat. 5079), which provided that all property not therein expressly exempted
should be subject to taxation, and that all acts, general
and special, inconsistent with its provisions, were repealed.
It appears that the lands so assessed axe not those upon
which the college buildings are erected, but are used for
pasture lands for cows and the dwellings of the help on
the farm, and that the same axe essential and necessary
to the use of the college, and that the college derives no
pecuniary profit from the lands in question.
Upon the hearing before the Board of Equalization,
the president of that body delivered an opinion, in which
it was held that the act relied upon did not purport an
intention to impose upon the State an irrepealable contract obligation, but was a privilege extended to the corporation by the State; and therefore subject to revocation. This opinion was adopted.' and affirmed by the
Supreme Court of New Jersey, and also by the Court of
Errors and Appeals.
This court has the right to determine for itself whether
there is a contract which has been impaired by subsequent legislation of the State. This principle has often
been recognized and stated in decisions of this court.
While this is true, the decision of the state- court, con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 ;U. S.

struing its own statutes, is entitled to much consideration and respect. Milwaukee Electric Railway & Light
Co. v. R. R. Commission, 238 U. S. 174, 182; Interborough
Transit Co. v. Sohmer, 237 U. S. 276, 284.
In this case, the stipulation of facts shows that Seton
Hall College was incorporated under an act of the legislature and entered upon the discharge of its charter obligations without reliance upon any legislative authority
exempting it from taxation upon its property. When the
subsequent legislation was enacted,-nine years after,extending to Seton Hall College the same exemption as
was given to the Drew Theological Seminary, it entered
upon no.new undertaking, and made no agreement by
which it promised to do something, nor did it part with
anything because of the immunity thus extended to it
by the State.
It is true that this court has held that a charter contract,
express in its character, may arise from the acceptance of
and action under the teims of a charter which grants
such exemption. In this connection, much reliance is
placed by the plaintiff in error upon certain rulings of this
court; among others, in Home of the Friendless v. Rouse,
8 Wall. 430. In that case the corporation is shown to
have entered upon its duties and expended its money in
reliance upon the grant of the charter, which declared
that the property of the corporation should be exempt from
taxation, and that that grant was made for the purpose of
encouraging such undertaking and enabling the parties
engaged therein more fully and effectually to accomplish
their purpose; and it was, moreover, provided that the
sections of the act concerning corporations, which provided that the charter of every incorporation should be
subject to alteration, suspension and repeal at the discretion of the legislature, should not apply to the act
creating the Home of the Friendless. This court held
that the corporation was thus expressly Withdrawn from

SETON HALL COLLEGE v. SOUTH ORANGE. 105
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the authority of the general act of the legislature giving
a right to alter, suspend and repeal, and that, under such
circumstances, the acceptance of the charter, and the
action under it and in reliance upon its terms, constituted
an express contact,
So, in University v. People, 99 U. S. 309, the act of the
legislature declared that the property of the Northwestern
University should be forever free from taxation, and this
court, differing from the Supreme Court of Illinois in that
respect, held that the exemption applied, in view of the
language used in the statute, not only to lots and lands
directly used for the purposes of the institution as a school,
but .also to other lots,, lands and property, the annual
profits of which were applied to school purposes, and
that the exempting authority of the legislature was not
limited to real estate occupied, or in immediate use, by
the university.
Furthermore, when the alleged contract exempting
.Seton Hall College from taxation was made, the New
Jersey act of 1846 was in force, providing that;
"The charter of every corporation which shall hereafter be granted by the legislature, shall be subject to
alteration, suspension, and repeal, in the discretion of
the legislature."
It is true that this act of the legislature was held by this
court, in the case of New Jersey v. Yard, 95 U. S. 104,
not to apply to a case where it appeared, from a subsequent act of the legislature, that a contract was made by
requiring of the benefited company the performance of
certain acts and a formal acceptance within sixty days,
otherwise the act to become wholly inoperative. In that
case, the company was obligated, in consideration of the
tax limitation stated in the act, to commence and do certain work within a year; in consideration whereof the tax
was fixed at the rate of one-half of one per cent. This,
said this court, had been a subject of disagreement, which

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

was adjusted, additional rights were granted, and the
tax fixed as to its rate and time of commencement, and,
in view of these circumstances, it did appear that it was
the legislative intention to make such contract in the same
manner and on the same terms of equal obligation as other
contracts are made, and not to pass a statute which it
could repeal under another act of the legislature. But
here there being no such express obligation shown it is
only reasonable, to assume that the legislature extended
the
nimmunity from taxation to Seton Hall College subject to the right of alteration and repeal reserved in the act
of 1846.
To all claims of contract exemption from taxation must
be applied the well settled rule that, as the power to tax
is an exercise of the sovereign authority of the State, essential to its existence, the fact of its surrender in favor
of a corporation or an individual must be shown in language which cannot be otherwise reasonably construed,
and all doubts which arise as to the intent to make such
contract are to be resolved in favor of the State. Hoge v.
Railroad Co., 99 U. S. 348, 354; New Orleans City and Lake
Railroad Co. v. New Orleans, 143 U. S. 192, 195; Wilmington & Weldon Railroad Co. v. Alsbrook, 146 U. S.
279, 294; Phoenix Insurance Co. v. Tennessee, 161 U. S.
174, 179; Yazoo &c. Railway Co. v. Adams, 180 U. S.
1, 22.
Applying these principles, we are unable to conclude
that the state court was wrong in finding no binding contract here. As we have said, the college was incorporated under no promise of such exemption, and could not
have relied upon it in undertaking the work for which it
was organized. After the privilege of the act in favor of
the Drew Seminary was extended to it, it made no new
promises and assumed no new burdens. It is true it has
been kept in operation, and has doubtless continued and
expanded its usefulness, but we fail to discover from any-

SWIFT & CO. v. HOOVER.
242 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

thing in this record that it would not have done so except
in reliance upon the tax exemption extended to it by the
legislature. By the terms of that act, the state court has
held a revocable privilege was extended and no irrepealable contract was entered into. Bearing in mind our own
right of independent examination of questions of this
character, we are unable to say that the conclusion reached
is not well founded in law and in fact.
It follows that the judgment of the state court must be
Affirmed.

SWIFT & COMPANY ET AL. v. HOOVER.
ERROR TO AND APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 101.

Submitted November 14, 1916.-Decided December 4, 1916.

A decree of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia refusing to
adjudicate defendant a bankrupt is not directly reviewable in this
court.
Under ยง 24 of the Bankruptcy Act and ยง 252 of the Judicial Code, only
controversies arising in bankruptcy proceedings, and not the steps
taken in the proceedings themselves, afford basis for direct appeal to
this court from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
Quwre: Whether Congress has omitted to provide for appellate review
of bankruptcy adjudications of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Arthur A. Birney, Mr. H. W. Wheatley and Mr.
Lucas P. Loving for plaintiffs in error and appellants.
Mr. E. F. Colladay for defendant in error and appellee.

