SAVINGS BANK OF DANBURY v. LOEWE.
242 U. S.

357

Counsel for Parties.

be interstate or confined to Iowa, as it should happen..
At the moment it was not engaged in either. Its character
as an instrument of commerce depended on its employment at the time not upon remote probabilities or upon
accidental later events.
Judgment affirmed.

SAVINGS BANK OF DANBURY, OF DANBURY,
CONNECTICUT, v. LOEWE, AS SURVIVING
PARTNER OF THE FIRM OF D. E. LOEWE &
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.

No. 713. Argued December 11, 1916.-Decided January 8, 1917.

Under the statutes of Connecticut, a garnishment of deposits in an
ordinary savings bank without stockholders which is subject to a
fiduciary duty to hold and invest for the benefit of its depositors all
funds that it receives and to pay over to them the net income beyond
enough to constitute a small safety fund, Gen. Stats., §§ 3440, 3441,
reaches not only the principal of the deposits but also the dividends
that accrue after service of the writ.
The lien is not affected by an assignment of the savings accounts made
after the service.
236 Fed. Rep. 444, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. William F. Tammany, with whom Mr. John H.
Light was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Walter Gordon Merritt and Mr. Daniel Davenport.
for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE

HOLMES

242 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is scire facias, where the statutes of Connecticut
provide a similar remedy, to recover savings bank accounts
attached by trustee process in the hands of the plaintiff
in error, judgment having been recovered in the original
suit by the defendant in error and execution taken out.
The garnishee submitted itself to the judgment of the
court, admitting deposits, but setting up that after the
attachment the accounts had been assigned to the United
Hatters of North America and that the assignee claimed
the dividends that had accrued since the writ was served.
The assignee was cited, appeared and made the claim.
The principal, except an item of $428.52, now has been
paid, and the right to the dividends is the only question in
the case. The Circuit Court of Appeals decided that the
attaching creditor had the better right. 236 Fed. Rep. 444.
There is no doubt that under the statutes of Connecticut, as usual elsewhere, a garnishment reaches only effects
of the defendant in the hands of the garnishee at the time
of service upon the latter, as distinguished from contingent
liabilities that do not become effects in the garnishee's
hands until a later time. Gen. Stats. 1902, §§ 880, 931.
But the commonest object of such attachments is a right,
regarded as a thing within reach of the process because
of the power of the court over the person subject to the
corresponding obligation. Barber v. Morgan, 84 Connecticut, 618, 623; Osborn v. Lloyd, 1 Root, 447; Harris
v. Balk, 198 U. S. 215, 222. If the right is vested the attachment reaches the whole of it, and therefore, there being no doubt that a debitum in prcesenti solvendum in
futuro could be attached, Gen. Stats., § 936, it was admitted at the argument that in the case of an interestbearing debt the subsequently accruing interest was held
as well as the principal. The obligation to pay the one
stands on the same footing as the obligation to pay the

SAVINGS BANK OF DANBURY v. L.OEWE.
242 U. S.

359

Opinion of the Court.

other; the two are one, they are limbs of the same contract, and there is no reason for splitting them up. Adams
v. Cordis, 8 Pick. 260, 269. It may be true that apart
from statute the attachment of stock in a corporation
would not hold subsequently declared dividends, but, if
so, that is because the stockholders have no right to the
dividends until they are declared, which may never be
if the directors see fit to convert earnings into capital.
Gibbons v. .ahon, 136 U. S. 549. Compare Norton v.
Norton, 43 Ohio St. 509, 525. The question then narrows
itself to whether the so-called dividends of savings banks
are analogous to dividends of a corporation or to interest
due by contract upon a. debt.
The plaintiff in error is an ordinary savings bank without stockholders. It is subject to a fiduciary duty to hold
and invest for the benefit of its depositors all the funds
that it receives and to pay over to them all the net income
earned, after the retention of 'enough to constitute a small
safety fund. Gen. Stats., §§ 3440, 3441. This duty
certainly is no less because created by statute rather than
by contract. It is guarded by other statutes limiting the
investments allowed and requiring inspection, with the
object of making principal and income secure rather than
large. Gen. Stats., §§ 3428, 3457. The minimum amount
of the dividends generally is as fixed in practice as if it
were written in a bond. The practical certainty that. a
savings bank will pay is greater, in short, than that an
average debtor will pay six per cent. according to his
promise in a note. The only element of uncertainty other
than that conditioning all future conduct, is the possibility
that the dividend may be greater than that which experience has led the depositor to expect. He has a vested
right to the dividends, a vested right that the corporation
should take the most prudent steps to secure them, with
an identified fund devoted to the result. We do not perceive why the possibility of there being no earnings because

360.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

of fraud or a cataclysm, or a possibility of the earnings
being greater than was- expected, should make the right
less a present one, subject to and covered by the attachment, than the right to the capital, which runs the same
risks, Bunnell v. Collinsville Savings Society, 38 Connecticut, 203, or than that arising from the promise of a debtor
who may fail or abscond, or, if a corporation, may have
no assets.
The case certainly is not weakened, it rather seems to
us to be strengthened by the fact that the statutes of
Connecticut provide that the levy of attachments and
executions upon even the shares of a corporation shall
include dividends growing due thereon. The provision
indicates a policy, and although of course the words do
not include dividends from savings banks, as in our opinion they did not need to, it is only by imagining unreal
distinctions that the policy embodied in the statute, and
extending by the common law to interest due upon contract, can be held to exclude the claim to subsequently
earned income of ordinary savings banks, when that claim
as we have tried to show is a vested right. Middletown
Savings Bank v. Jarvis, 33 Connecticut, 372, 379. See
Norton v. Norton, 43 Ohio St. 509, 525.
No argument against our conclusion can be based on
the right to release the attachment by giving a bond equal
to the value of the effects attached. Gen. Stats., §§ 849,
852. We presume that ordinarily a plaintiff would be
satisfied with a bond for the principal of a debt or deposit.
If he should, raise a question we will wait for the Connecticut courts to decide whether he might or might not be
entitled to more.
Finally, the assignment of course has no effect upon the
rights of the defendant in error. If the attachment would
have held dividends as against the original defendant it
holds them as against the assignee.
Judgment affirmed.

