MINNEAPOLIS & ST. LOUIS R. R. CO. v. WINTERS. 353.
242 U. S.

Syllabus.

mentioning that a dray ticket relied upon as fixing that
date appears to have been open to grave suspicion from
its character, marking and other details. Considering that
a patent has been granted to the plaintiff the case is preeminently one for the application of the practical rule
that so far as the finding of the master or judge who saw
the witnesses "depends upon conflicting testimony, or
upon the credibility of witnesses, or so far as there is any
testimony consistent with the finding, it must be treated
as unassailable." Davis v. Schwartz, 155 U. S. 631, 636.
The reasons for requiring the defendant to prove his case
beyond a reasonable doubt are stated in the case of The
Barbed Wire Patent, 143 U. S. 275, 284. Upon these considerations and a review of the evidence we are of opinion
that the decree must be reversed.
Decree reversed.

MINNEAPOLIS & ST. LOUIS RAILROAD COMPANY
v. WINTERS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.
No. 420. Argued December 5, 1916.-Decided January 8, 1917.

When a state court applies the Federal Employers' Liability Act to
an action governed by the state law, the error is not ground for
reversing the judgment upon the complaint of a party who did not
oppose but invoked and relied upon the application of the federal
statute.
In such circumstances, however, this court will not pass upon questions
concerning negligence and assumption of risk if the facts touching
the plaintiff's employment are stated and agreed and fail to make a
case within the federal act.
The injury occurred while plaintiff was repairing an engine. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

engine had been used in interstate commerce before the injury and
was so used afterwards, but there was nothing to show that it was
permanently or specially devoted to such commerce, or assigned
to it at the time. Held, not a case within the Federal Employers'
Liability Act.
131 Minnesota, 181; id. 496, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frederick M. Miner, with whom Mr. William H.
Bremner was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Humphrey Barton, with whom Mr. John H. Kay
was on the briefs, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an action for personal injuries suffered by the
plaintiff, the defendant in error, at Marshalltown, Iowa,
on October 21, 1912. The decisions below will be found
in 126 Minnesota, 260 and 131 Minnesota, 181; id. 496.
The declaration alleged that at the time the plaintiff was
employed by the defendant in interstate commerce, although it went on to set forth laws of the, State of Iowa
concerning the. liability of railroads and contributory
negligence. It alleged .that the injury was caused by the
negligence of the defendant in failing to furnish a reasonably safe instrument for the work that the plaintiff was
set to do. The answer denied among other things that the
plaintiff was employed in interstate commerce and set up
the plaintiff's negligence and assumption of the risk. In
the course of the trial, the facts touching the employment
having been agreed, the counsel for the defendant intimated that he might want to take the question whether
the commerce was interstate to this court, but said no
more about it and lter moved to dismiss the suit upon

MINNEAPOLIS & ST. LOUIS R.'R. CO. v. WINTERS. 355
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the ground, among others, that the plaintiff assumed the
risk, adverting to a decision that that defence was open
under the federal act. Later still the presiding judge in
his charge, without objection, told the jury that the action was tried under the law of the United States; and in
the assignment of errors to the Supreme Court of the
State one error assigned was that the jury was instructed
that they might find a less than unanimous verdict in a
suit founded upon the Federal Employers' Liability Acta proposition disposed of since the trial by a decision of
this court. Minneapolis & St. Louis R. R. Co. v. Bombolis,
241 U. S.211.
It is true that error .is assigned because the court affirmed its opinion rendered after a former trial. But in
the assignment of errors to the state court no such error
is alleged, and beyond judicial recitals that the evidence
with some exceptions was the same at both trials and quotations from the decision as to negligence, the record shows
nothing but a casual statement of counsel as to what was
done or ruled before. In short, at the trial the defendant
in no way saved its rights to deny that the parties were
engaged in interstate commerce at the time of the accident
or to object to the application of the federal statute. On
the contrary without qualification it invoked and relied
upon that statute and the rights that because of that
statute it supposed itself to possess. There is an ambiguous assignment of error that the Supreme Court of the
State erred in holding as matter of law that the plaintiff
was engaged in interstate commerce and in holding that
the question of the plaintiff's assumption of the risk was
for the jury "thereby depriving the appellant of a right
guaranteed to it under the provisions of" the Federal
Employers' Liability Act. But if the first clause is more
than an introduction to and reason for the second, then,
as we have indicated, no foundation for such an assignment was laid in the proceedings before the state courts.

.356

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

Therefore even if the courts and parties were wrong about
the proper basis for the suit that fact does not entitle the
defendat to have the judgment reversed. It cannot
complain of a course to which it assented below.
The defendant, however, as has been seen, did save the
questions concerning its right to a unanimous verdict and
the assumption of risk under the act of Congress and also
concerning the evidence of its negligence, all of which, of
course, in a case arising under the act could be brought
to this court. In the present case the facts upon which
the act of Congress was supposed to apply are stated and
were agreed, so that although, for the reasons that we
have stated, an error on that point would not entitle the
defendant to a new trial, it necessarily must be determined whether they show a foundation for the attempt to
come here upon the questions that were reserved. The
agreed statement is embraced in a few words. The plaintiff
was making repairs upon an engine. This engine "had
been used in the hauling of freight trains over defendant's
line . . . which, freight trains hauled both intrastate
and interstate commerce, and
it was so used
after the plaintiff's injury." The last time before the injury on which the engine was used was on October 1
when it pulled a freight train into, Marshalltown, and it
was used again on October 21, after the accident, to pull a
freight train out from the same place. That is all that
we have, and is not sufficient to bring the case under the
act. This is not like the matter of repairs upon a road
permanently devoted to commerce among the States. An
engine as such is not permanently devoted to any kind of
traffic and it does not appear that this engine was destined
especially to anything more definite than such business
as it might be needed for. It-was not interrupted in an
interstate haul to be repaired and go on. It simply had
finished some interstate business and had not yet begun
upowi any other, Its nect work, so far as appears, might

SAVINGS BANK OF DANBURY v. LOEWE.
242 U. S.

357

Counsel for Parties.

be interstate or confined to Iowa, as it should happen..
At the moment it was not engaged in either. Its character
as an instrument of commerce depended on its employment at the time not upon remote probabilities or upon
accidental later events.
Judgment affirmed.

SAVINGS BANK OF DANBURY, OF DANBURY,
CONNECTICUT, v. LOEWE, AS SURVIVING
PARTNER OF THE FIRM OF D. E. LOEWE &
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.

No. 713. Argued December 11, 1916.-Decided January 8, 1917.

Under the statutes of Connecticut, a garnishment of deposits in an
ordinary savings bank without stockholders which is subject to a
fiduciary duty to hold and invest for the benefit of its depositors all
funds that it receives and to pay over to them the net income beyond
enough to constitute a small safety fund, Gen. Stats., §§ 3440, 3441,
reaches not only the principal of the deposits but also the dividends
that accrue after service of the writ.
The lien is not affected by an assignment of the savings accounts made
after the service.
236 Fed. Rep. 444, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. William F. Tammany, with whom Mr. John H.
Light was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Walter Gordon Merritt and Mr. Daniel Davenport.
for defendant in error.

