OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

242 U. S.

any resistance to a request or notice not deemed reasonable
or to shipments not deemed normal it must exercise this
right at the risk of a penalty of $5,000 a day against all
of its responsible Qfficers and agents. These considerations
are very serious (InternationalHarvester Co. v. Kentucky,
234 U. S. 216; Collins v. Kentucky, 234 U. S. 634), but the
view we have taken of the power of the Commission to
make the order, however definite and circumscribed it
might have been made, renders it unnecessary to pass
upon the contentions.
Decree affirmed.
DETROIT UNITED RAILWAY v. PEOPLE OF THE
STATE OF MICHIGAN.
DETROIT UNITED RAILWAY v. CITY OF
DETROIT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.

Nos. 1, 4.

Argued October 20, 1916.-Decided December 11, 1916.

Plaintiff in error, in 1900, under the Michigan Street Railway law (Laws
1867, vol. 1, p. 46; Comp. Laws 1897, c. 168), acquired by purchase
certain street railway lines in the City of Detroit, with their franchises, and, soon afterwards, certain suburban lines, with their
franchises. The latter lines connected with the former at the city
boundary, but lay wholly within adjacent village and township
territory. The franchises for the city lines had arisen through ordinances of the city, among them ordinances passed in 1889, which
placed special restrictions on fares, and were accepted by the then
owners of the city properties. The franchises for the suburban
lines had arisen through village and township ordinances which
fixed the fares upon a basis more favorable to the respective grantees.
Until all were acquired by the plaintiff in error, the city properties
had been owned and held independently of the suburban properties.
Plaintiff in error united the properties thus acquired under one organization. Thereafter, by acts of the legislature passed in 1905
and 1907, the limits of the city were so extended that portions of
the two outlying railways were embraced thein. These acts

DETROIT UNITED RY. v MICHIGAN.
242 U. S.

Syllabus.

contained no reference to existing contracts nor specific mention
of street railway rights, but each provided that the territory annexed
should be subject to all the laws of the State applicable to the city
* and to all the ordinances and regulations of the city, with exceptions
not here material. This litigation resulted from the contention of
the city, (which the state court sustained), that the outlying lines,
in so far as they had come within the city through its, extension,
came also within the fare restrictions of the city ordinances of 1889.
Held, (1) Upon consideration of the village and township grants and
the law under which they were made (Act of 1867, §§ 13, 14 and 20),
that the right to charge fare as therein permitted, upon the lines
covered by those grants, was a valid right of contract whose obligation could not constitutionally be impaired by subsequent state
legislation.
(2) That, conceding the validity of the Acts of 1905 and 1907 as annexation acts, yet an impairment of this contractual right, resulting
from the effect given to them by the decision of the state court
combined with the construction of the city ordinances as contractually binding the plaintiff in error to submit to their fare restrictions on all of its lines within the city as so extended, was an
impairment attributable to the annexation acts as well as to the
construction of the city ordinances.
(3) Therefore, whether the agreements imported by the ordinances of
1889, when properly construed, were operative in the added city
territory, was a question touching the merits of the case and not the
jurisdiction of this court.
(4) That, read with the other city ordinances under which the franchises for the city lines were granted, the ordinances of 1889, in
requiring one of the predecessors of plaintiff in error to carry passengers at reduced rates "over any of its lines in said city" and in
requiring another to apply single fares and reduced rates "over
the entire route of said company" were not intended to apply prospectively to lines which those companies might afterwards own
within subsequent additions to the city.
(5) Even if such extended construction were allowable in respect of
lines subsequently built under the actual or assumed authority of
the ordinances of 1889, it could not be allowed in derogation of rights,
privileges, and franchises-especially as to fare-arising independently under the township and village ordinances and acquired
by plaintiff in error by purchase before the city was extended.
Michigan Street Railway Act of 1867, § 15; Comp. Laws, 1897,
§ 6648, applied.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

242 U. S.

A grantee of a public grant may not be compelled to suffer the ills of a
strict construction in one aspect without being accorded the benefits
necessarily flowing from that construction in others.
Notwithstanding statements in Henderson Bridge Co. v. Henderson
City, 141 U. S. 679, 689; 173 U. S. 592, 602, it is settled that when
called upon to exercise jurisdiction under the contract clause this
court must determine upon its independent judgment these questions: (1) Was there a contract? (2) If so, what obligation arose
from it? and (3) Has that obligation been impaired by subsequent
legislation?
162 Michigan, 460; 173 Michigan, 314, reversed.

Tm case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Elihu Root, with whom Mr. John C. Donnelly, Mr.
William L. Carpenter, Mr. Fred A. Baker and Mr. Henry
L. Lyster were on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. P. J. M. Hally, with whom Mr. Harry J. Dingeman
was on the brief, for defendants in error:
The Michigan Supreme Court bases its judgments solely
on the meaning of the contracts existing between the
parties. People v. Detroit United Railway, 162 Michigan,
460, 463;, 465; City of Detroit v. Detroit United Railway,
173 Michigan, 314, 326, 327, 328.
The decision of a state court defining the meaning of a
contract, without reference to a subsequent law, raises no
federal question. Detroit City Railway v. Guthard, 114
U. S. 133; Henderson Bridge Co. v. City of Henderson, 141
U. S. 679; Henderson Bridge Co. v. City of Henderson, 173
U. S. 592, 608; New Orleans Water Works Co. v. Louisiana
Sugar Refining Co., 125 U. S. 18, 39.
In the present cases, the court below gave no effect to
a subsequent law, but based its decision on the independent
ground that the rights claimed by the plaintiff in error
were not conferred by the contracts made with the villages
and townships surrounding Detroit, because of other and
previous obligations which had been contracted through
its predecessors with the City of Detroit. The annexation

DETROIT UNITED RY. v. MICHIGAN.
242 U. S.

241

Argument for Defendants in Error.

acts being unquestionably valid, the impairment, if any
exists, of the contract obligations arises not from the acts,
but comes as a mere incident of the legislation due to the
agreements made by the parties.
The litigants are bound by the state court's construction of the contracts. Henderson Bridge Co. v. City of
Henderson, 173 U. S. 592, 602. The only impairment
conferring jurisdiction on this court is impairment by
state law or constitution. Knox v. Exchange Bank of
Virginia, 12 Wall. 379; Lehigh Water Co. v. Easton, 121
U. S. 388, 392. It is only where subsequent legislation
intervenes that this court will construe the contract for
itself. Yazoo & M. V. R. Co. v. Adams, 180 U. S. 41, 45;
Missouri & K. I. R. Co. v. Olathe, 222 U. S. 187; Southern Wisconsin R. Co. v. Madison, 240 U. S. 457, 460, 461.
There is no denial of due process where, without denying
any fundamental principle of law, a lawful tribunal in a
regular way hears the parties and determines their rights.
Morley v. Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Ry., 146 U. S.
162; Central Land Co. v. Laidley, 159 U. S. 103, 112.
The court below correctly interpreted the contracts. In
succeeding to their property, franchises, etc., plaintiff in
error obligated itself to carry out the contracts made by
its predecessors. The decisions of the court 'below, in
interpreting these obligations, merely followed the established rule that public grants or franchises must be construed strictly against the grantee and in favor of the public-a principle established by many decisions of this court.
The continued expansion of Detroit was of common
knowledge, evidenced by many acts of annexation, enacted
before the plaintiff in error purchased the properties in
question, and all prior to the contract of 1889. The contracting parties must have had in view the certainty that
the city limits would go further. The term "city limits"
in a contract to run for thirty years means the city limits
as they will become, The obligations of the parties under

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

the contract of 1889 were intended to expand territorially
as the limits grew.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

These two cases involve identical questions, were argued
together, and may be disposed of in a single opinion. They
concern the rates of fare that may be charged by plaintiff
in error upon certain street railway lines within the present
limits of the City of Detroit, and in both cases it is insisted
that the state court of last resort has given such an effect
to statutes enacted in the years 1905 and 1907 for extending the corporate limits as to impair the obligation of the
contracts contained in franchises thoretofore granted by
the governing authorities of the annexed territory to the
predecessors in title of plaintiff in error.
Plaintiff in error was incorporated December 28, 1900,
under the Street Railway Act of 1867 and amendments
thereto (Mich. Laws 1867, vol. 1, p. 46; Comp. Laws 1897,
c. 168), for the purpose, as its corporate name indicates,
of acquiring, maintaining, and operating various lines
theretofore constructed by other companies. Section 15
of the act (§ 6448, Comp. Laws) provides that any street
railway company may purchase and acquire any street
railway in any city, village, or township owned by another
corporation, together with the rights, privileges, and franchises thereof, "and may use and enjoy the rights, privileges and franchises of such company, the same, and upon
the same terms as the company whose road and franchises
were so acquired might have done." Under this authority
it shortly thereafter acquired and united under one organization certain lines previously constructed and operated
independently throughout the city and its suburbs under
different and distinct franchises, of which the following is
a summary:
In November, 1862, the city, by ordinance, granted to
the incorporators of the Detroit City Railway the right

DETROIT UNITED RY. v. MICHIGAN.
242 U. S.

Opinion.of the Court.

to construct railways in certain streets, including Jefferson
Avenue, which extends from the centre of the city in a
northeasterly direction to and beyond the city limits. All
the lines authorized were to commence at Campus Martius,
and run thence on their several courses to the city limits,
and the route along JeffersonAvenue to the eastern limits
was to be completed within six months after March 31,
1863. In 1873 a section was added authorizing the construction of a second track along Jefferson Avenue. In
1862 the city limits on Jefferson Avenue were at Mt.
Elliott Avenue. In 1885 they were extended to a point
200 feet east of Baldwin Avenue, and while they remained
as thus fixed, and in the year 1889, a supplemental ordinance was passed granting to the Detroit City Railway,
among other things, the right to extend its double track
along Jefferson Avenue from its then present easterly
terminus to the easterly city limits, and fixing a time
within which the same should be constructed. There
was a provision that the additional lines should be operated in connection with and as parts of the then present
system of the Detroit City Railway, and that the company
should agree, among other things, to make arrangements
for carrying passengers between the hours of 5.30 and 7.00
a. m., and between 5.15 aiid 6.15 p. m., over any of its lines
in the city for a single fare upon tickets sold at the rate of
eight for twenty-five cents, with specified transfer rights.
In 1891 the city limits were further extended along Jefferson Avenue to Hurlburt Avenue, which was the easterly line
of the Township of Hamtramck. The railroad on Jefferson
Avenue in the territory covered by this extensionwas constructed under franchises granted by the.authorities of
that township, respecting which no question is now raised.
From Hurlburt Avenue eastwardly to the Country Club
in the Township of Grosse Pointe-a distance of about
four and one-half miles-the railroad on Jefferson Avenue
was constructed under several. grants made by the Town-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

ship and Village of Grosse Pointe, and the Village of Fairview, in the years 1891, 1893, and 1895, and further powers
were conferred upon plaintiff in error, after its acquisition
of these lines, by ordinance of the Village of Fairview
passed May 16, 1905. These several village and township
grants were for terms that have not yet expired, and contain provisions for five-cent fares within the territory
covered by them.
The Jefferson Avenue lines are operated together as a
single system in connection with lines leading from the
city northwestwardly on Grand River Avenue to and
beyond the city limits, constructed under rights derived
by predecessors in title of plaintiff in error as follows:
By ordinance of May 1, 1868, the city granted to the
incorporators of the Grand River Street Railway Company the right to construct lines on certain streets, ineluding Grand River Avenue to its intersection with the
Michigan Southern Railway at or near the then present
city limits, with the right to build a second track within
five years after the completion of the first. By § 8 this
line was to be completed to a specified point contemporaneously with the paving of the street, and thence to
the western city limits whenever public necessity, as determined by the common council, should require. By
Acts of 1875 and 1885 the limits were extended from the
railroad intersection to a point just beyond the Boulevard.
By ordinance of August 3, 1888, there was granted the
right to construct single tracks on Grand River Avenue
from its then present terminus to the westerly city limits,
and by ordinance of January 3, 1889, the city granted the
right, among others, to construct a double track railway
on Grand River Avenue from Woodward Avenue to the
city limits, and under this authority tracks were built to
the limits just beyond the Boulevard. The latter ordinance required the company to stipulate that it would sell
tickets eight for twenty-five cents, good over the entire

DETROIT UNITED RY. v. MICHIGAN.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

route of the company, when offered during the morning
and afternoon hours specified in the ordinance passed on
the same date respecting the Detroit City lines and already
referred to.
In 1897 the Township of Greenfield granted to the incorporators of the Grand River Electric Railway, (a different corporation from that last mentioned), a franchise
for tracks along the Grand River Road from the westerly
line of the township to the then present city limits of
Detroit, with a right to charge not exceeding five cents as
the fare for any distance in Greenfield, or six tickets for
twenty-five cents, with school tickets at ten for thirty
cents. Under this franchise a railroad was built along
the Grand River Road from the then city limits near the
Boulevard throughout the Township of Greenfield.
As already indicated, all of these lines of railway, with
the appurtenant rights, privileges, and franchises, were
acquired by plaintiff in error shortly after its incorporation, under the authority of § 15 of the Act of 1867.
Afterwards, by an act of the legislature approved October 24, 1907 (Mich. Laws, Ex. Sess. 1907, p. 55), a part of
the former Village of Fairview, including Jefferson Avenue
for a distance of about 12,500 feet northeastwardly from
Hurlburt Avenue, was annexed to the City of Detroit.
And by Acts of June 16, 1905, and June 19, 1907 (Mich.
* Local Acts 1905, p. 1144; Local Acts 1907, p. 940), the
city limits were extended northwestwardly along Grand
River Avenue for a distance of about one-half mile in
territory previously part of Greenfield Township. Each
of these acts provided that the annexed territory should
be subject to all the laws of the State applicable to the
city and to all the ordinances and regulations of the city,
with exceptions not now material.
It is the contention of defendants in error that the provisions respecting fares in the two ordinances of January 3,
1889, assented to by the predecessors of plaintiff in error

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

in the ownership of the city lines on Jefferson and Grand
River Avenues, were intended to be applicable throughout the city as it might from time to time be enlarged, and
that plaintiff in error is bound by the limitations of those
ordinances as to all its lines within the city, not only as
its limits existed in 1889, but also including the territory
annexed in 1905 and 1907.
In case No. 1, the Supreme Court of the State sustained
the imposition of a fine for failure to accept workingmen's
tickets, so called, within the hours prescribed by the ordinance of 1889 upon the Jefferson Avenue line within the
territory formerly part of the Village of Fairview but
annexed to the city by the Act of October 24, 1907. 162
Michigan, 460.
In No. 4, the court sustained a judgment awarding a
mandamus requiring plaintiff in error to observe the
provisions of the ordinances of 1889 upon the entire
Jefferson Avenue-Grand River Avenue route, so far as
included within the' city limits as extended in 1907. 173
Michigan, 314.
In each case plaifntiff in error seasonably and expressly
insisted that. the several township and village grants above
referred to were subsisting and valid contracts when the
legislature of Michigan passed the acts extending the city
limits, and that those acts, if so construed or applied as
to affect or modify the contracts, were in conflict with
§ 10 of Article I of the Constitution of the United States.
And it is upon the overruling of these contentions that the
cases are brought here, under § 237, Jud. Code.
Defendants in error challenge our jurisdiction, upon the
ground that the judgments of the state court of last resort
were based solely upon the meaning that it attributed to
the ordinances of January 3, 1889, without reference to
any subsequent legislation.
It is true, as this court has many times decided, that the
"contract clause" of the Constitution is not addressed to

DETROIT UNITED RY. v. MICHIGAN.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

such impairment of contract obligations, if any, as may
arise by mere judicial decisions in the state courts without
action by the legislative authority of the State. Cross
Lake Shooting and Fishing Club v. Louisiana, 224 U. S.
632, 639; Frank v. Mangum, 237 U. S. 309, 344.
But in this case there were state laws passed subsequent
to the making of the alleged contracts in question, in the
form of the legislation of 1905 and 1907 extending the
corporate limits of the city. And it is not correct to say
that the decisions of the state court turned upon the mere
meaning of the contracts without reference to these subsequent laws. Assuming what in effect is conceded, that
the village and township franchises constituted contracts
within the protection of the Federal Constitution, the force
of the decisions was to abrogate the rights acquired by
plaintiff in error through its acquisition of the suburban
lines, not merely because of the assent of the owners of the
city lines to the ordinances of January 3, 1889, but because of the combined effect of those ordinances and the
acts of the legislature of Michigan that thereafter extended the city limits. It is true that no question is or
can be here made respecting the authority of the legislature to add new territory to the city; and it is likewise true
that the annexation acts contain no reference to existing
contracts, nor any specific mention of the subject-matter
of street railway rights. But, in cases of this character, the
jurisdiction of this court does not depend upon the form
in which the ,legislative action is expressed, but rather
upon its practical effect and operation as construed and
applied by the state court of last resort, and this irrespective of the process of reasoning by which the decision is
reached, or the precise extent to which reliance is placed
upon the subsequent legislation. McCullough v. Virginia,
172 U. S. 102, 116, 117; Houston & Texas Central R. R.
Co. v. Texas, 177 U. S. 66, 77; Terre Haute &c. R. R. Co. v.
Indiana, 194 U. S. 579, 589; Hubert v. New Orleans, 215

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

U. S. 170, 175; Fisher v. New Orleans, 218 U. S. 438, 440;
Carondelet Canal Co. v. Louisiana, 233 U. S. 362, 376;
Louisiana Ry. & Nay. Co. v. New Orleans, 235 U. S. 164,
170. The necessary operation of the decisions under review is to give an effect to the annexation acts that substantially impairs the alleged contract rights of plaintiff in
error as they theretofore stood; and it makes no difference
that that result was reached in part by invoking the provisions of another agreement supposed to be binding upon
plaintiff in error. Whether the agreement thus invoked,
when properly construed, has the effect attributed to it, is
a question that touches upon the merits, and not upon the
jurisdiction of this court.
Coming, then, to the merits: Not only is it not disputed,
but it is not open to serious dispute, that the original village and township grants were contractual in their nature.
It appears that the recipients of those grants, like their
successor, the plaintiff in error, became incorporated under
the Street Railway Act of 1867, of which § 13 provides
that consent for the construction and maintenance of a
street railway is to be given by the corporate authorities in
an ordinance to be enacted for the purpose, and under
such rules, regulations, and conditions as may be prescribed by such ordinance, but that no such railway shall
be constructed until the company shall have accepted in
writing the terms and conditions upon which they are permitted'to use the streets. By § 14, after any city, village,
or township shall thus have consented to the construction
and maintenance of street railways, or granted rights and
privileges to the company, and such consent and grant
shall have been accepted by the company, the consent
shall not be revoked or the company deprived of the
rights and privileges conferred. And by § 20 the rates of
toll or fare to be charged by the company are to be established by agreement between it and the corporate authorities, and are not to be increased without consent of

DETROIT UNITED RY. v. MICHIGAN.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

such authorities. It is plain, as was pointed out by this
court in Detroit v. Detroit Citizens St. Ry. Co., 184 U. S.
368, 385, that the legislature regarded the fixing of the
rate of fare as a subject for agreement between the municipality and the company. And in these cases, as in that,
the terms of the several ordinances are such as clearly to
import a purpose to contract under the legislative authority thus conferred.
But it is insisted-,and to this effect was the decision of
the state court-that the terms of these contracts were in
effect modified by the assent of the owners of the city lines
on Jefferson and Grand River avenues to the ordinances of
January 3, 1889, and the subsequent acquisition of these
lines by plaintiff in error followed by its acquisition of the
suburban lines. It is, indeed, argued that the construction
placed by the state court upon the ordinances of 1889 as
contracts is not subject to the review of this court, and a
declaration to this effect is cited from Henderson Bridge
Co. v. Henderson City, 141 U. S. 679, 689, quoted in a
subsequent case of the same title in 173 U. S. 592, 602.
But, notwithstanding what was there said, it is too well
-settled to be open to further debate, that where this court
is called upon in the exercise of its jurisdiction to decide
whether state legislation impairs the obligation of a contract, we are required to determine upon our independent
judgment these questions: (1) Was there a contract?
(2) If so, what obligation arose from it? and (3) Has that
obligation been impaired by subsequent legislation?
Houston & Texas Central R. R. Co. v. Texas, 177 U. S. 66,
77; St. Paul Gas Light Co. v. St. Paul, 181 U. S. 142, 147;
Terre Haute &c. R. R. Co. v: Indiana, 194 U. S. 579, 589.
But of course in the present cases the crucial question is,
what were the obligations of the contracts as they stood
at the time of the subsequent legislation? And therefore
it becomes material to determine whether, by voluntary
action of the parties between the making of the suburban

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion. of the Court.

242 U. S.

grants and the passage of the annexation acts, the obligations arising out of those grants had been modified. The
state court deemed that the assent of the Detroit City
Railway to that provision of the first-mentioned ordinance
of January 3, 1889, which required it to carry passengers
at reduced rates "over any of its lines in said city" applied to any and all lines it either then owned or might
thereafter acquire, and comprehended all territory within
the limits of the city, including any extension of the
municipal boundaries or of the company's lines within
those boundaries; and that by the acquisition of the
lines of the Detroit City Railway plaintiff in error became
bound by this agreement, and was obliged to observe it,.
even with respect to the lines that it afterwards acquired
as assignee of the Grosse Pointe and Fairview franchises,
so far as those lines were included in the extended city
limits. It was said (162 Michigan, 462) that there were
two methods of extending street railways, one by construction, the other by purchase under § 6448 (2 Comp.
Laws 1897), being § 15 of the Act of 1867; that "the purchased railway beccimes as much a part of the system as
does the railroad as constructed;" and that the ordinance
of 1889 was made in view of the power of the legislature
to increase or diminish the territory within the city, and
the real intent was to provide for single fares within the
city limits as they should from time to time be fixed. In
173 Michigan, 314, similar reasoning was applied to the
ordinance of 1889 respecting the Grand River Avenue line
and the obligation imposed upon the owner of that line
to apply the single fare and the reduced rates "over the
entire route of said company." The court considered
(173 Michigan, 325, 326) that certain of the language used
in the original ordinance of 1862 to the Detroit City Railway and in that of 1868 to the Grand River Street Railway
Company showed that the probable growth of the city and
development of its public utilities were anticipated, and

DETROIT UNITED RY. v. MICHIGAN.
242 U. S.

251

Opinion of the Court.

indicated a purpose that the grants should apply as far as
the citymight be extended.
Notwithstanding our disposition, to lean towards concurrence with the view of the state court of last resort in a
matter of this nature, we are unable, t6 accept its construction of the ordinances of 1889. In the first place, we'
are unable to view the original ordinances as intended to.
extend the rights of the respective grantees, beyond the
then existing city limits and a far as the limits should be
extended in 'the future. Their language does not seem to
us to admit of 'this interpretation, and the practical Con-,
struction placed Upon them by the parties was to the
contrary. As the city limits on Jefferson Avenue und on
Gran4 River Avenue were extended, the respective conpanies obtained, and presumably were required to obtain,
new grants authorizing an extension of the railways from
their then present termini to the new city limits. Both of
the ordinances of 1889 contained express grants to this
effect with respect to Jeffe-son Avenue and Grand River
Avenue respectively. Each. of the original city grants,
and each of the ordinances of 1889, contained particular
and comparatively brief limitations of time within which
the authorized lines of railway were to be constructed and
placed in operation. For these reasons, and because in
other respects the grants are quite specific in their terms,
and because the city at that time had no authority to
extend its corporate limits nor to make a grant of street
railway rights beyond them, we are compelled to conclude
that the ordinances of 1889 had no such extensive meaning
as that attributed to them by the state court.
Defendants in error invoke the established rule that the
terms of a municipal grant or franchise should be construed strictly as against the grantee, and as favorably to
the grantor as its terms permit. The state court deemed
the rule to be applicable. 162 Michigan, 465; 173 Michigan, 323. It is at least doubtful, however, whether the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

rule, properly applied to the facts of these cases, does not
bear altogether in favor of plaintiff in error. For of course
it is not possible to adopt an extensive construction of the
obligations imposed upon the city companies by the ordinances without adopting a like construction as to the
extent of the franchises thereby conferred upon the companies. And can it be supposed that, if either of these
companies had claimed the right to lay down tracks and
operate railways in the annexed territory by virtue of the
ordinances of 1889, they would not have been met with
the rule that municipal grants are to be construed strictly
against the grantee, and cannot be extended beyond their
express terms? In any view, the ordinances, just because
they were intended to be contracts, and not merely legislative enactments, ought to be regarded as having reference to a specific subject-matter.
But were we in error about the construction of these
ordinances, we still think that the acquisition of the city
lines by plaintiff in error, and its subsequent acquisition
of the suburban lines, did not bind it to put the reduced
fare provisions in effect upon the suburban lines if and
when the city limits should thereafter be extended to
include any parts of the latter. If the city lines had been
extended into the annexed territory by either of the city
railway companies under any authority conferred by or
assumed under the ordinances of 1889, a very different
question would be presented. But such is not the case.
And although we may follow the state court to the extent
of considering the acquisition of the suburban lines under
§ 6448, Comp. Laws,as being in effect an extension of the
city railways, we cannot, without doing violence to the
provisions of that section, regard such acquisition as
abrogating any part of the franchise rights that pertained
to the suburban lines; for the section itself declares that
upon such purchase being made, the purchasing company
"may use and enjoy the rights, privileges and franchises

DETROIT UNITED RY. v. MICHIGAN.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of such company, the same, and upon the same terms as
the company whose road and franchises were so acquired
might have done." The rate of fare being among the
most material and important of the terms and conditions
referred to (Detroitv. Detroit Citizens St. Ry. Co., 184 U. S.
368, 384; Minneapolis v. Minneapolis Street Railway Co.,
215 U. S.417, 434), we find it impossible to regard the
purchase of the suburban lines, with their rights, privileges, and franchises, as being in effect an extension of the
city lines, but at the same time an abrogation of an essential part of the rights and privileges appurtenant to
the acquired lines.
The state court cited and relied upon Indiana Ry. Co.
v. Hoffman, 161 Indiana, 593, and Peterson v. Tacoma Ry.
& Power Co., 60 Washington, 406. In their particular
facts and circumstances those cases differ somewhat from
the cases now before us; and, without stopping here to
analyze them, we deem it sufficient to say that we are
unable to accept their reasoning so far as it is inconsistent
with the views we have expressed.
It results that the provisions of the township and village
ordinances respecting the rates of fare remained in full
force and effect after the acquisition of the suburban
lines by plaintiff in error, notwithstanding its previous
acquisition of the city lines or the previous assent of the
city railway companies to the ordinances of 1889. Because of the provision of § 10 of Article I of the Constitution of the United States, it was not within the power of
the State of Michigan by any subsequent legislation to
impair the obligations of those contracts, and since the
judgments of the Supreme Court of that State gave such
an effect to the annexation Acts of 1905 and 1907, in conjunction with the ordinances of 1889, as to impair those
obligations, the judgments must be reversed.
We have made no particular mention of an agreement
entered into between the city and plaintiff in error in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
CLARKE and BRANDEIS, JJ.; dissenting.

242 U. S.

year 1909, because we agree with the state court (173
Michigan, 321) that it was no more than a temporary
provision for a modus operandi, and had not the effect of
waiving any of the rights of either party.
Judgments reversed, and the causes remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE,

dissenting:

I greatly regret that I cannot concur in the decision just
announced. The opinion of the majority of the court
plainly regards the act of the legislature of the State of
Michigan, extending the corporate limits of the City of
Detroit, as a valid law, passed in the exercise of an undoubted power in the legislature to deal as it does with
the municipal corporations of that State, and its validity
for the purposes for which it was intended is not questioned. It will remain a valid law after this decision as it
was before. In substance the decision of this court is
that the Supreme Court of Michigan, in deciding that
there is an implied condition in the contract between the
City of Detroit and the railway company that the rates
of fare therein provided for shall apply within the city
limits when extended, and in requiring the railway company to accept the same fares throughout the new city
limits as were accepted throughout the former limits,
gives an effect to the extension act which impairs the
railway company's contract with the city. I am of the
opinion that for the state Supreme Court thus to interpret
the terms of the contract of the railway company with
the city is not to give an effect to the valid extension act
of the legislature which violates the provision of the Constitution prohibiting a State from passing any "law impairing the obligation of contracts." The passing of the
valid extension act merely created a situation under which
the implied condition, existing in the fare .contractfrom its

VANDALIA R. R. v. PUBLIC SERVICE COMM.
242 U. S.

255

Syllabus.

beginning, finds an application to the new territory. This
is giving effect not to the terms of the act of the legislature
but to the terms of the contract with the city, and the
most that can be said against the decision of the Supreme
Court of Michigan is that it gives an erroneous construction to the contract. But since it is settled by many decisions of this court that the contract clause of the Federal
Constitution does not protect contracts against impairment by the decisions of courts except where such decisions give effect to constitutions adopted or laws passed
subsequent to the date of such contracts (Cross LWake
Shooting and Fishing Club v. Louisiana, 224 U. S. 632),
I am of opinion that there is no federal question before
this court in this case and that the writ of error should be
dismissed. This is a high and delicate power which the
court is exercising in this case and it should be resorted
to only in cases which are clear, and, for the reasons thus
briefly stated, I am convinced that this is not such a case.
I am authorized to state that MR. JusTIcE BRANDEIS
concurs in this dissent.

VANDALIA RAILROAD COMPANY v. PUBLIC
SERVICE COMMISSION OF INDIANA, AS THE
SUCCESSOR OF THE RAILROAD COMMISSION
OF INDIANA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
No. 81. Submitted November 6, 1916.-Decided December 11, 1916.
Prior to the Act of March 4, 1915, c. 169, 38 Stat. 1192, and after the
Act of February 17, 1911, c. 103, 36 Stat. 913, the state police power
extended to the regulation of the character of headlights used on

