OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

ATLANTIC COAST LINE RAILROAD COMPANY
v. MIMS, ADMINISTRATRIX OF MIMS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
CAROLINA.

No. 242. Argued December 4, 1916.-Decided January 15, 1917.
This court is without jurisdiction to review a judgment of a state court
under Rev. Stats., ยง 709, Jud. Code, ยง 237, upon the ground that a
federal right was denied, when the claim of federal right relied on was
refused consideration in that court because it was not asserted at a
proper time or in a proper manner under the established state system
of pleading and practice.
The decision of the state court that a claim of federal right was not so
presented is binding on this court when not rendered in a spirit of
evasion for the purpose of defeating the federal right.
In accordance with the foregoing principles, a party desiring to secure
the benefits of the Federal Employers' Liability Act in an action in a
state court, must claim them in apt time and in an appropriate manner under the state rules of pleading and practice.
Writ of error to review 100 S. Car. 375, dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frederic D. McKenney, with whom Mr. P. A.
Willcox, Mr. L. W. McLemore and Mr. Douglas McKay
were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. William S. Nelson, with whom Mr. J. Team Gettys,
Mr. John H. Clifton and Mr. Jo-,Berry Sloan Lyles were
on the briefs, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.

On December 10th, 1910, John J. Mims, a car inspector
in the employ of the plaintiff in error, when attempting to
cross a track to inspect a train of cars which had just

ATLANTIC COAST LINE R. R. CO. v. MIMS. 533
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

arrived, was run down and killed by a switching engine at a
public crossing in the City of Sumter, South Carolina.
In April following this suit was commenced by the
filing of a complaint, which charges actionable negligence
and alleges that the defendant owned and operated a line
of railway described as wholly within the State of South
Carolina. There is nothing in the complaint tending to
state a cause of action under the federal law. To this
complaint the defendant filed an answer which is a specific
denial under the South Carolina Code of Civil Procedure
and which contains two separate defenses. The first
defense admits that Mims was killed at the time alleged,
admits the paragraph alleging that the defendant, at the
time of the accident complained of, owned and operated
the line of railroad described as being wholly within the
State of South Carolina, and 'denies all the other allegations of the complaint. The second defense is one of
contributory negligence.
Upon this complaint and answer the case went to trial
and when the testimony was all introduced the trial court
granted a non-suit, which was reversed by the Supreme
Court of the State with an order remanding the case for a
new trial.
When the case was called for the second trial the defendant asked leave to amend its answer by pleading
"gross and wilful contributory negligence" on the part of
deceased, which was granted, and the trial proceeded until
plaintiff rested her case.
Up to this time no claim had been made by defendant
and no facts had been pleaded or evidence offered by either
party from which it could be inferred that the deceased at
the time of his death was engaged in interstate commerce,
or that the Federal Employers' Liability Act was in any
-manner applicable to the case.
When the plaintiff rested her case on the second trial,
the defendant for the first time offered to introduce

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

testimony which it is claimed, if admitted, would have
tended to prove that the train which the deceased was in
the act of approaching to inspect when he was killed "was
engaged in interstate commerce and that the deceased
was in this respect and otherwise engaged in interstate
commerce." The trial court rejected this proffer of
testimony on the ground that it came too late and
was not relevant to any issue tendered by the pleadings in the case. No application was made for leave to
amend the answer by adding the claim under the federal
law.
The practice differs in the courts of the various States
as to what testimony may be introduced under "a specific
denial," such as was filed in this case, and the Supreme
Court of South Carolina, while recognizing fully the ruling
character of the Federal Employers' Liability Act when
the facts making it applicable are properly pleaded, yet,
upon full and obviously candid and competent consideration, decided, as we have seen, that under the settled rules
of pleading in that State the evidence tendered was not
admissible. The essential justice of this decision, which is
the fundamental thing, commends it to our favor. The
evidence admitted in the case shows that the train which
the deceased was about to inspect when he was killed was
a local freight train, with a run habitually, and on the
morning of the accident complained of, wholly within the
State of South Carolina. If the relation of the deceased
to the traffic which this intrastate train carried was such
as to give an interstate character to his service, that fact
must have been known to the defendant from the day the
accident occurred, and it could not possibly have been
known to the plaintiff, and therefore surprise and delay
certainly, and possibly defeat of plaintiff's claim under
statutes of limitation, must have been the inevitable
result of permitting the introduction of the proffered
testimony late in the second trial, without the federal

ATLANTIC COAST LINE R. R. CO. v. MIMS. 535
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

right claimed from it having been "specially set up and
claimed" in the answer of the defendant.
The plaintiff recovered a judgment, which the Supreme
Court affirmed.
This epitome of the action of the state court shows that
the claim under the federal statute now made was not
presented until after the plaintiff had rested in the second
trial of the case after it had been to the Supreme Court,
and after the defendant, upon the opening of this second
trial, had amended its answer by adding a third defense, without mentioning or in any manner attempting
to plead the federal claim. Even at this stage of the
trial the assertion of the claim consisted only in a tender
of testimony, without any application to amend the
answer.
To become the basis of a proceeding in error from this
court to the Supreme Court of a State "a right, privilege
or .immunity" claimed under a statute of the United
States must be "especially set up or claimed," and must be
denied by the state court. Rev. Stats., ยง 709; Judicial
Code, ยง 237. This means that the claim must be asserted
at the proper time and in the proper manner by pleading,
motion or other appropriate action under the state system
of pleading and practice, Mutual Life Insurance Co. v.
McGrew, 188 U. S. 291, 308, and upon the question
whether or not such a claim has been so asserted the
decision of the state court is binding upon this court, when
it is clear, as it is in this case, that such decision is not
rendered in a spirit of evasion for the purpose of defeating
the claim of federal right. Central Vermont Railway Co.
v. White, 238 U. S. 507; John, Guardian,v. Paullin, 231
U. S.583; Erie R. R. Co. v. Purdy, 185 U. S.148; Layton v.
Missouri, 187 U. S.356.
The plaintiff in error mistakenly argues that under
recent decisions of this court it is not necessary to claim
the benefits of the Federal Employers' Liability Act in a

OCTOBER TERM, 1916;
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

pleading in a state court in order to obtain a review here
of a decision denying or refusing to consider such a claim.
Reference to the decisions relied upon shows that the
federal right was in terms claimed in the petition in
Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v. Wulf, 226 U. S, 570,
and Grand Trunk Western Ry. Co. v. Lindsay, 233 U. S.
42; and that in St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry.
Co. v. Hesterly, 228 U. S. 702, the decision proceeds upon
the statement that, since the Supreme Court of the State
held the federal question sufficiently raised and decided it,
the objection that it was not saved was not open in this
court. While it is true that the reports show that in St.
Louis, San Francisco & Texas Ry. Co. v. Seale, 229 U. S.
156, and in Toledo, St. Louis & Western R. R. Co. v. Slavin,
236 U. S. 454, the federal act was not specially referred to
in the pleadings, yet they were in such form that the trial
court, either without objection or over objection which the
Supreme Court of the State refused to sustain, admitted
testimony making it necessary to apply the federal act in
deciding each case. This, of course, was equivalent to
holding that the pleadings in the trial court were in a
form to justify the introduction of testimony in support
of the federal claim, under the system of practice and
pleading prevailing in the courts of the two States in
which the cases were decided. This brings these decisions
clearly within the principle of the conclusion we are announcing in this case.
While it is true that a substantive federal right or
defense duly asserted cannot be lessened or destroyed by a
state rule of practice, yet the claim of the plaintiff in error
to a federal right not having been asserted at a time and
in a manner calling for the consideration of it by the state
Supreme Court under its established system of practice
and pleading, the refusal of the trial court and of the
Supreme Court to admit the testimony tendered in support of such claim is not a denial of a federal right which

UNITED STATES v. AMER.-ASIATIC S. S. CO.
242 U. S.

537

Opinion of the Court.

this court can review, Baldwin v. Kansas, 129 U. S. 52,
Oxley Stave Co. v. Butler County, 166 U. S. 648, and therefore, for want of jurisdiction, the writ of error is
Dismissed.

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN-ASIATIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY ET AL.
UNITED STATES v. PRINCE LINE, LIMITED,
ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Nos. 138, 169.

Motions to reverse and remand with instructions to dis-

miss petitions without prejudice. Submitted December 4, 1916.-Decided January 22, 1917.
The agreements between British, German and American steamship
companies which were assailed as contrary to the Anti-Trust Act of
July 2, 1890, having necessarily been dissolved by the European
War, and the questions raised by the bills having thereby become
moot when the decrees of the court below were entered, the decrees
are reversed and the cases remanded with directions to dismiss the
bills without prejudice--as in United States v. Hamburg-American
Co., 239 U. S. 466.
220 Fed. Rep. 230, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
The Solicitor General and Mr. Assistant to the Attorney
General Todd for the United States, in support of the
motions.
Memorandum opinion by MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE,
by direction of the court.
The United States sued to restrain the carrying out of
agreements between British, German and American steam-

