LOUISVILLE PRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES.

409

Syllabus.

.242 U. S.

Plaintiff in error has failed to show that the ordinance
has the effect of depriving it of property without due
process of law within the meaning of the Fourteenth
Amenchnent, and the judgment under review is
Affirmed.

LOUISVILLE

BRIDGE COMPANY
STATES.

v.

UNITED

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 540.

Argued December 8, 11, 1916.-Decided January 8, 1917.

The Acts of July 14, 1862, c. 167, 12 Stat. 569, and February 17, 1865,
c. 38, 13 Stat. 431, under which appellant's bridge was built across

the Ohio River, were not intended and did not operate to confer an
irrepealable franchise to maintain the bridge as authorized and
originally constructed, nor did they create a vested right demanding
compensation under the Fifth Amendment when changes were
subsequently required by Congress in the interest of navigation.
United States v. Parkersburg Branch R. Co., 134 Fed. Rep. 969;
143 Fed. Rep. 224, overruled. MonongahelaNavigation Co. v. United
States, 148 U. S. 312, and United States v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R.
Co., 229 U. S. 244, distinguished.
When indefeasible private rights are sought to be derived from regulatory provisions made in the exercise of the power to regulate commerce, the case is peculiarly one for the application of the universal
rule that grants of special franchises and privileges are to be strictly
construed in favor of the public right, and nothing is to be taken
as granted concerning which any reasonable doubt may be raised.
In construing the acts above cited, the court judicially notices their
coincidence in time with the Civil War, the lack of bridges over the
Ohio at Cincinnati, Louisville, and points west, the natural difficulties of crossing the stream, the urgent need of a bridge to transfer
troops and supplies south, and the fact that financial disturbances
made it difficult to secure capital for large undertakings.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Appellant.

242 U. S.

The absence of an express reservation of the right to alter or repeal
has not the same significance in acts of Congress as in state legislation, and in the acts above cited is without conclusive effect.
Acts like those here in question, being passed in the regulation of
commerce for the guidance of future conduct, carry the suggestion of
future changes; and, in their construction, it should be presumed
that Congress intended to preserve its power to make future adjustments, in pace with commercial developments-assuming, but
not deciding, that such power could be shackled or surrendered.
The Act of March 3, 1899, c. 425, 30 Stat. 1121, 1153, so repealed or
modified the Acts of 1862 and 1865 as to include appellant's bridge
within its operation.
The authority of the Secretary of War under the Act of 1899, to require
changes, involves no unlawful delegation of legislative or judicial
power,
233 Fed. Rep. 270, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr.Willidm W. Crawford and Mr. Lawrence Maxwell,
with whom Mr. Charles H. Gibson was on the brief, for

appellant:
The power of C6ngress to regulate bridges is derived
solely from the commerce clause, Bridge Company v.
United States, 105 U. S. 475, 489; it is subject to the
, limitation of the Fifth Amendment that private property
rshall not be taken without compensation.
Monongahela
Navigation Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 312, 366.
The bridge in question was constructed under an irrevocable franchise. The Acts of 1862 and 1865 contain
no reservation of the right to alter or amend, nor any
suggestion that the property of the bridge builders is

beyond the protection of the Fifth Amendment.

They

declare that the bridge shall be a lawful structure and a
post route of the United States, and the 1862 Act provides
that boats shall not "interfere with the elevation, construction or use of any of the bridges erected or legalized"
thereunder. These facts clearly indicate that Congress

LOUISVILLE BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES. 411
242 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

fully appreciated the permanency of the grant. In the
absence of a reservation of the right to alter or amend,
the grant of a corporate franchise is beyond' the power
of the State to impair. Dartmouth College v. Woodward,
4 Wheat. 518; Owensboro v. Cumberland Telephone Co.,
230 U. S. 65. The construction of the Ohio Falls Bridge
in accordance with the terms of the Acts of 1862 and
1865 constituted, therefore, an irrevocable contract between appellant and the United States,. and vested in the
former a property right of which it could not be deprived
without payment of just compensation.
The claim made in the opinion of the court below that
one Congress must transmit unfettered all constitutional
powers to a succeeding Congress is without foundation.
Congress may, if it sees fit, wholly destroy appellant's
bridge under the power of eminent domain if the interests
of navigation so require, but compensation must be paid.
Compliance with the order of the Secretary of War
involves the destruction of appellant's bridge and its
replacement with other property at an increased cost of
over $400,000, and constitutes a "taking" within the
purview of the Fifth Amendment. Pumpelly v. Green Bay
Co., 13 Wall. 166, 177; United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S.
445, 468, 470; Missouri Pacific R. R. Co. v. Nebraska, 217
U. S. 205; United States v. Welsh, 217 U. S.333; Peabody
v. United States, 231 U. S. 531. See also Monongahela
Natvigation Co. v. United States, 148 U. S.377.
The basis of the decision in Bridge Company v. United
States, supra,was that if the exercise of the reserved power
incidentally destroys property, it is a risk which the
grantees assume in accepting the grant. Both that case
and Hannibal Bridge Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 194,
involved structures built under acts of Congress which
expressly reserved the power to alter or amend, and are
not in point. Nor are Union Bridge Co. v. United States,
204 U. S. 364, and Monongahela Bridge Co. V. United

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Appellant.

242 U. S.

States, 216 U. S. 177, controlling here. Those cases concerned bridges built under state authority and without
congressional sanction, and if, as stated in Bridge Company
v. United States, the builders of a bridge "who act on state
authority alone necessarily assume all the risk of legitimate
congressional interference," it is obvious that when Congress has granted a right to construct bridges that are
"lawful structures," without reserving the right to withdraw its assent thereafter, it is estopped to do so.
The Act of 1899, being a general act, is not to be construed as affecting appellant's special rights acquired
under the Acts of 1862 and 1865. See Washington v.
Miller, 235 U. S. 422, 428; McChord v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 183 U. S. 483; Southwestern Coal Co. v.
McBride, 185 U. S. 499. It does not, in terms, repeal
the earlier acts.
Congress, by the Acts of 1862 and 1865, made a legislative finding that the bridge, as built, was not an "unreasonable" or "unlawful," but a "lawful" obstruction,
if an obstruction at all. Wheeling Bridge Case, 18 How.
421, 432. The record shows that the bridge is really less
of an obstruction to navigation at the falls than when it
was built. The physical situation in 1914, then, not being
materiaUy different from what it was at the time of the
passage of the Acts of 1862 and 1865, there is no justification for a reversal of the legislative decree. To apply
§ 18 of the 1899 Act to the Ohio Falls Bridge is to effect a
reversal by the Secretary of the judgment of Congress on
the fact, found by it in 1862 and 1865 on exactly the same
evidence. If the Secretary's finding is sufficient to destroy
the bridge, it is not the ascertainment of a fact which
can be legally delegated to him, but the reversal of the
legislative discretion vested in Congress alone.
The act applies to "any railroad or other bridge now
constructed, or which may hereafter be constructed." In
1899 there were two classes of bridges to which the word

LOUISVILLE BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES. 413
242 U. S.

"now"

Argument for Appellant.

could properly apply without affecting vested

rights: (1) bridges theretofore built under state authority
only, and (2) bridges theretofore built under congressional
authority with a power of amendment or repeal reserved.
The power of the Secretary to order alterations in
bridges constructed under the Act of 1862, without compensation, was denied in 22 Ops. A. G. 343, in which § 4
of the Act of 1890, similar to § 18 of the Act of 1899, was
held to apply only to bridges built under acts of Congress
in which the right to require changes was expressly reserved. With knowledge of this opinion, Congress did
not see fit to change the wording of the authority given
to the Secretary in § 18 of the Act of 1899, and presumably
did not intend that the section should apply to bridges
built under the Act of 1862. Not content with the opinion
of the Attorney General, the government sought to enjoin
the reconstruction of the bridge involved, but the bill was
dismissed. United States v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co.,
unreported decision, referred to in 134 Fed. Rep. at
p. 973. In 25 Ops. A. G. 194, § 18 of the 1899 Act was
considered in connection with the Ohio Falls Bridge, and
the section held inapplicable. It was also held inapplicable to bridges constructed under the 1862 Act in United
States v. ParkersburgBranch R. Co., 134 Fed. Rep. 969;
affirmed in 143 Fed. Rep. 224, and other unreported
cases referred to in 134 Fed. Rep. 9t p. 973, and United
States v. Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Chicago & St. Louis Ry.
Co., (Southern District of Ohio), decided February 18,
1911, and the right 'to direct changes without compensation denied and the franchise rights of the company
sustained.
United States v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 229 U. S.
244, in essence, supports the proposition that the Act of
1899 through the power of the Secretary under § 18 was
not intended to apply to the "lawful structure" created
under the Act of 1862. For though rested on the doctrine

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

of res judicata, the decision necessarily implied that the
action of the Secretary taken under the 1899 Act after
the former judgment was not tantamount to exercise of
the discretion of Congress to make the lawful structure
unlawful.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Wallace for the United
States.
MR.JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

Appellant is the owner of a bridge across the Ohio River
at Louisville, Kentucky, known as the "Ohio Falls
Bridge," which was built under an act of Congress approved February 17, 1865, c. 38, 13 Stat. 431, supplementary to an act approved July 14, 1862, c. 167, 12 Stat.
569. The 1862 Act as amended allowed the bridge to be
built under one of several plans detailed, and with a prescribed minimum width for spans and a minimum clearance height above the water. This act, in its fifth section,
declared "That any bridge or bridges erected under the
provisions of this act shall be lawful structures, and shall
be recognized and known as post-routes, . . . and
the officers and crews of all vessels, boats, or rafts navigating the said Ohio River are required to regulate the use
of the said vessels and of any pipes or chimneys belonging
thereto, so as not to interfere with the elevation, construction, or use of any of the bridges erected or legalized under
the provisions of this act." The first section of the 1865
Act contained a proviso "that said bridge and draws shall
be so constructed as not to interrupt the navigation of the
Ohio River;" the second section declared" that the bridge
erected under the provisions of this act shall be a lawful
structure, and shall be recognized and known as a postroute."
The Ohio Falls Bridge was built in all respects in ac-

LOUISVILLE BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES. 415
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cordance with the requirements of these acts,- except that,
instead of the minimum channel span of 300 feet prescribed, the builders made spans of 380 feet and 352%
feet, respectively, and exceeded, the clearance height of the
highest of the authorized plans, thus expending $150,000
more than was necessary to comply with the letter of the
law. The bridge was completed in: the year 1870, and
since then has been continuously in use as a railroad bridge,
furnishing one of the principal thoroughfares across the
Ohio River from north to south. Its superstructure now
requires renewal, but this can be done without obstructing
navigation any further than the bridge does at present
and has done ever since its construction.
In the year 1914 the Secretary of War, proceeding
under § 18 of an act of Congress approved March 3, 1899,
c. 425, 30 Stat. 1121, 1153, gave notice to appellant that
he had good reason to believe the bridge was an obstruction to navigation because of insufficient horizontal clearance of the channel span crossing the main navigable
channel of the river and insufficient width of opening in
the existing swing-span crossing the Louisville and Portland Canal, and appointed a time and place for a hearing
upon this question. Appellant introduced no evidence
at the hearing, but filed a protest against any action by
the Secretary under the Act of 1899, on the ground that
this act did not affect bridges constructed under the Acts
of 1862 and 1865, or that, if it attempted to do so, it was
unconstitutional. After the hearing the Secretary made
an order 'notifying appellant to alter the bridge within
three years, so as to provide an enlarged horizontal opening for the main navigable channel, and to change the
swing-span across the canal to a lift-span having a prescribed horizontal clearance, and a prescribed vertical
clearance when open. A further hearing and some correspondence having led to no result, appellant notified the
Secretary of War in writing that it insisted on the right

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

to renew its superstructure on the existing masonry without, changing the length of any of the existing spans, "so
that when completed, it will not interfere with navigation
any more than it does now," and that it intended to commence the work of renewal at once. Shortly thereafter
the Attorney General filed a bill for an injunction in the
District Court; appellant'answered setting up its claims
as above indicated; and the case was brought to a hearing
upon stipulated facts presenting, as the sole question to be
determined, the legality of the order of the Secretary of
War as applied to the bridge in question. A final decree
was made restraining appellant from reconstructing the
superstructure of the bridge in a manner inconsistent with
the provisions of the Secretary's order (233 Fed. Rep.
270), and the case comes here by direct appeal as permitted by § 18 of the 1$99 Act.
Concisely stated, the position of appellant is that the
Ohio Falls Bridge was constructed under an irrevocable
franchise, and became upon its completion a lawful structure and the private property of appellant; that Congress
had no power to require its removal except in the exercise
of the federal authority to regulate commerce, and subject to the provision of the Fifth Amendment that private
property shall not be taken for public use without just
compensation; and that the Act of 1899, being a general
act, does not by fair construction operate to repeal the
special franchise conferred by the Acts of 1862 and 1865,
and if it does it is unconstitutional because it fails to make
provision for compensation.
The first and fundamental contention is rested in part
upon facts of which we may take judicial notice, that
when the Acts of 1862 and 1865 were passed the Civil
War was in progress, and there was urgent need of a bridge
over the Ohio River west of the Big Sandy (the eastern
boundary of Kentucky) to provide for the transfer of
troops and supplies from the north to the south; that there

LOUISVILLE BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
242 U. S.

417

Opinion of the Court.

were no bridges crossing the Ohio at either of the cities
of Cincinnati or Louisville, or at any point west of them,
and that the movement of troops and supplies was thereby
greatly hampered; that the river at Louisville is approximately a mile wide, the current quite rapid on account
of the Falls, and in winter frequently filled with ice, so
as to render a bridge a pressing necessity; and that the
war had disturbed somewhat the finances of the country,
and capital for large undertakings was difficult to secure.
But the argument lays especial stress upon the declaration
that the bridge in question should be a lawful structure
and recognized and known as a post route, and the fact
that neither the original nor the supplemental acts contained any reservation of the right to alter, or amend,
or revoke the franchise.
These are no doubt weighty considerations, and raise
a grave question, but they do not necessarily dispose of it.
Clearly, the acts were passed under the power of Congress
to regulate commerce. That power is a very great power,
and in its nature continuing, not being exhausted by any
particular exercise. We need not go so far as to say that
Congress could not in any case by contract or estoppel
prevent itself from modifying or revoking a regulation
once made and substituting another in its place without
compensation. But when private rights of an indefeasible
nature are sought to be derived from regulatory provisions
established in the exercise of this power, the case is peculiarly one for the application of the universal rule that
grants of special franchises and privileges are to be strictly
construed in favor of the public right, and nothing is to
be taken as granted concerning which any reasonable
doubt may be raised. As this court, speaking through
Mr. Chief Justice- Waite, declared in Bridge Company v.
United States, 105 U. S. 470, 480: "Congress, which alone
exercise-, the legislative power of the government, is the
constititional protector of foreign and inter-state con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

merce. Its supervision of this subject is continuing in its
nature, and all grants of special privileges, affecting so
important a branch, of governmental power, ought certainly to be strictly construed. Nothing will be presumed
to have been surrendered unless it was manifestly so
intended. Every doubt should be resolved in favor of
the government."
The absence of an express reservation of the right to
alter or amend is not conclusive. As is well understood,
reservations of this kind have a peculiar fitness in state
legislation, being traceable historically to the decision of
this court in Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat.
518, that a corporate charter is a contract within the
meaning of that clause of Article I, § 10, of the Constitution, which declares that no State shall pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts, so that a state law
altering such a charter in a material respect without the
consent of the corporation is unconstitutional and void;
and the suggestion in the concurring opinion of Mr. Justice Story (p. 675) that the reservation of a power to alteror amend the charter would leave the State free to enact
subsequent amendatory legislation. Miller v. State, 15
Wall. 478, 494; Greenwood v. Freight Company, 105 U. S.
13, 20; Spring Valley Water Works v. Schottler, 110 U. S.
347, 352. Congress is not prevented by the Constitution
from passing laws that impair the obligation of contracts,
and in its enactments the presence or absence of such a
reservation has not the same peculiar significance that it
has in state legislation. It is no doubt a circumstance, but
not by any means conclusive.
At the time the Acts of 1862 and 1865 were passed it
was not customary for Congress to include in legislation
of this character an express reservation of a power of future
control or repeal. In an act of August 31, 1852, §§ 6 and
7, c. 111, 10 Stat. 110, 112, certain bridges already in existence across the Ohio River were declared to be lawful

LOUISVILLE BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES. 419
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

structures. The next acts of a similar character appear
to have been those now under consideration. Contemporaneously with the second of these, an act was passed
(c. 39, 13 Stat. 431) declaring a bridge then under construction across the Ohio between Cincinnati and Covington to be a lawful structure. In neither of these was there
any express reservation of future control. In succeeding
years numerous bridge acts were passed containing in
one form or another a reservation of the power to alter or
amend the act or to withdraw the assent given. These
provisions may well have been inserted from abundant
caution, and because provisions of like character had become familiar in state legislation. But obviously they
throw no direct light upon the intent of Congress in preceding legislation.
While scrutinizing the Acts of 1862 and 1865 in the
effort to determine the legislative intent as therein expressed, we should primarily consider the fact that they
were exertions of a power to regulate commerce. Such
a regulation, designed as it is to furnish a guiding rule for
future conduct, carries with it the suggestion that it may
not always remain unchanged. And since our interstate
and foreign commerce is a thing that grows with the
growth of the people, and its instrumentalities change
with the development and progress of the country, it was
not natural that Congress, in enacting a regulation of
such commerce, should intend to put shackles upon its
own power in respect of future regulation. The act
declared that the bridge when erected should be "a lawful
structure"; but there are no words of perpetuity, nor any
express covenant against a change in the law. There is a
1 Acts of July 25, 1866, § 13, c. 246, 14 Stat. 244; February 27, 1867,
c. 98, 14 Stat. 412; February 21, 1868, c. 10, 15 Stat. 37; July 6, 1868,
c. 134, 15 Stat. 82; July 20, 1868, c. 179, 15 Stat. 121; February 19,
1869, c. 37, 15 Stat. 272; March 3, 1869, c. 139, 15 Stat. 336; Joint

Resolution of March 3, 1869, 15 Stat. 347.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

proviso in the 1865 Act that the bridge and draws shall
be so constructed as not to interrupt the navigation of
the river; an evident modification of that clause of the
1862 Act which required vessels to be so regulated as not
to interfere with the bridge. It is possible to construe
the proviso as referring solely to the time of original
construction, and as satisfied if the bridge and draws did
not then obstruct navigation; but this would disregard
the fundamental rule that requires strict construction of
such grants as against the private right. In the light of
that rule, the true meaning rather is that the bridge and
draws should be so constructed as not at any time to interrupt navigation. See West Chicago Street R. R. Co. v.
Chicago, 201 U. S. 506, 515, 521. Indeed, the proviso
seems to have been so interpreted by the recipients of
the grant, for, as appears from the stipulation, the original
builders of the bridge did not limit themselves to giving
only what they were compelled by law to give, but at large
expense to themselves exceeded 'the heights and widths
that the act required.
It is true that Congress must have contemplated that
a large investment of private capital, would be necessary,
and that the bridge when once constructed could not be
abandoned or materially changed without a total or partial
loss of value. This is a very grave consideration, and we
have not at all overlooked it; but we cannot deem it controlling of the question presented. It may be assumed
that the parties foresaw, what experience since has demonstrated, that it would be many years before changing
conditions of navigation would render the bridge out of
date, and that the investors were satified with the prospect of the profit to be gained from the use of the bridge
in the meantime.
A circumstance perhaps bearing in the same direction
is that appellant is a Kentucky corporation, chartered by
an act of the legislature approved March 10, 1856 (Acts

LOUISVILLE BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES. 421
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

1855-6, vol. 2, p. 426), which contains a proviso, "that
said bridge shall be constructed so as not to obstruct
navigation, further than the laws of the United States
and the decisions of the Supreme Court of the United
States shall hold to be legal."
Reviewing the entire question, bearing in mind the
nature of the subject-matter, the circumstances of the
period of the enactments, and the language employed
by Congress, and construing this, strictly against the
grantee as the familiar rule requires, we are constrained
to hold that the Acts of 1862 and 1865 conferred upon
appellant no irrepealable franchise to maintain its bridge
precisely as it was originally constructed, and created no
vested right entitling appellant to compensation under
the Fifth Amendment in case Congress should thereafter,
in the exercise of its power to regulate commerce, require
changes to be made in the interest of navigation.
This being so, the authority of Congress to compel
changes was precisely the same as if the bridge had been
constructed under state legislation without license from
Congress, as in Union Bridge Co. v. United States, 204
U. S. 364, 388, 400; Monongahela Bridge Co. v. United
States, 216 U. S. 177, 193; or had been constructed under
congressional consent or authorization coupled with an
express reservation of the right of revocation or amendment, as in Bridge Company v. United States, 105 U. S.
470, 481; HannibalBridge Co. v. United States, 221 U. S.
194, 207. We are aware that a different result was reached
by the Circuit Court and Circuit Court of Appeals in
United States v. ParkersburgBranch R. Co., 134 Fed. Rep.
969; 143 Fed. Rep. 224; and by the Circuit Court in some
previous cases referred to in 134 Fed. Rep. 973. But,
upon mature consideration, we have concluded that these
decisions must be overruled.
Appellant cites Monongahela Navigation Co. v. United
States, 148 U. S. 312, but it is plainly distinguishable.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

There the Navigation Company under a state charter
had constructed locks and dams in the Monongahela
River, to the great improvement of its navigation, and by
a supplement to its charter had been required to commence
the construction of lock and dam No. 7 in such manner
and on such plan as would extend the navigation from its
then present terminus to the state line. This work was to
complete the company's improvements in the State of
Pennsylvania. Thereafter Congress, in 1881, appropriated $25,000 for improving the Monongahela River in
West Virginia and Pennsylvania, with the proviso that
the money should not be expended until the Navigation
Company had undertaken in good faith the building of
lock and dam No. 7 and had given assurance to the Secretary of War of its ability and purpose to complete the
same. The company gave satisfactory assurance to the
Secretary, commenced the work in 1882, and completed
it in 1884. By Act of August 11, 1888, c. 860, 251Stat.
400, 411, Congress authorized the Secretary of War to
purchase this lock and dam from the company, and in
the event of his inability to make a voluntary purchase
within a specified limit of expense then to take proceedings
for their condemnation, with a proviso that in estimating
the sum to be paid by the United States the franchise of
the corporation to collect tolls should not be considered
or estimated. It appeared that the tolls received by the
company for the use of its works including lock and dam
No. 7 averaged $240,000 per annum, that the money
value of the entire works and franchise was not less than
$4,000,000, and that the actual toll receipts of lock and
dam No. 7 were in excess of $2,800 per annum, and would
probably increase in the near future. This court held the
proviso excluding the franchise to collect tolls from consideration in the condemnation proceedings to be inconsistent with the Fifth Amendment (p. 336). But it will
be observed that this was not a case of removing a struc-

LOUISVILLE BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES. 423
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ture from the river on the ground that it interfered with
navigation, b't a taking over of a structure and employing it in the public use as an instrumentality of navigation.

In short, there was a clear taking of the property of the
company for public use as property, and an attempt at
the same time to exclude from consideration an essential
element of its value when ascertaining the compensation
to be paid. The case has no bearing upon the one at bar.
Reference is made also to our recent decision in United
States v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 229 U. S. 244; and
although this court merely affirmed the Circuit Court on
the ground that the matter was res judicata, it is argued
,that we necessarily decided the questions raised in the
present case in order to come to the conclusion that the
question was one of resjudicata.' In view of the very plain
language employed in the opinion (pp. 251, 254), the
argument is baseless.
There remains only the contention that the Act of 1899,
being a general act, does not by fair construction operate
to repeal or modify the special rights conferred upon appellant by the Acts of 1862 ahd 1865. We deem this point'
likewise untenable.

In terms the act applies without

qualification to "any railroad or other bridge now constructed, or which may hereafter be constructed, over any
of the navigable waterways of the United States." It is
argued that at the time of its passage there were two
classes of bridges to which the term "now constructed"
would properly apply without affecting any vested right,
namely (1) bridges theretofore built under state authority
only, and (2) bridges theretofore built under congressional
authority with a power of amendment or repeal expressly
reserved; and that full effect can be given to the language

of § 18 without holding that it is a repeal by implication
of the declaration of Congress in the Act of 1865 that the
Ohio Falls Bridge as constructed was a lawful structure
and a post route of the United States. But the 1899 Act

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

is not only unqualified in its terms, but from the nature
of the subject-matter there is every reason for giving it a
universal application. As we have seen, appellant had
no indefeasible right to maintain its bridge as originally
constructed, and the absence of an express right of repeal
from the Acts of 1862 and 1865 has as little bearing upon
the question of the practical justice or injustice of requiring an alteration in the bridge as it has upon the question of constitutional right. And of course, from the point
of view of the requirements of navigation, the particular
phraseology of the acts by which the construction of the
different bridges was authorized is altogether insignificant.
It may be conceded that the declaration of Congress in
the Act of 1865 that the bridge was a lawful structure
was conclusive upon the question until Congress passed
some inconsistent enactment. As was said by Mr. Justice
Nelson, speaking for the court in the Wheeling Bridge Case,
18 How. at p. 430, although it may have been an obstruction in fact, it was not such in the contemplation of the
law. But § 18 of the 1899 Act wrought a change in the
law. (There were similar provisions in an act of August 11,
1888, § 9, c. 860, 25 Stat. 400, 424; and in an act of September 19, 1890, § 4, c. 907, 26 Stat. 426, 453; but we pass
them by.) Congress thereby declared that whenever the
Secretary of War should find any bridge theretofore or
thereafter constructed over any of the navigable waterways of the United States to be an unreasonable obstruction to the free navigation of such waters on account of
insufficient height, width of span, or otherwise, it should
be the duty of the Secretary, after hearing the parties
'concerned, to take action looking to the removal or alteration of the bridge, so as to render navigation through or
under it reasonably free, easy, and unobstructed. As this
court repeatedly has held, this is not an unconstitutional
delegation of legislative or judicial power to the Secretary.
Union Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. 364, 385;

LOUISVILLE BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES. 425
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Monongahela Bridge Co. v. United States, 216 U. S. 177,
192; Hannibal Bridge Co., v. - United States, 221 U. S.194,
205. The statute itself prescribed the general rule applicable to all navigable waters, and merely charged the
Secretary of War with the duty of ascertaining in each
case, upon notice to the parties concerned, whether the
particular bridge came within the general rule. Of course
the Secretary's finding must be based upon the conditions
as they exist at the time he acts. But the law imposing
this duty upon him speaks from the time of its enactment.
And there is no real inconsistency between a declaration
by Congress in 1865 that a certain bridge was a lawful
structure and not an improper impediment to navigation,
and a contrary finding by th6 Secretary of War in the
year 1914.
Since we are constrained to hold that none of appellant's
contentions is well founded, it results that the decree under
review must be
Affirmed.

