OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

of this court to the end that the burden on its docket
might be lightened, we cannot construe that amendment
as frustrating the purpose which it was adopted to accomplish. American Security Co. v. District of Columbia, 224
U. S. 491, 495.
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

CROSS v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 78.

Submitted October 23, 1916.-Decided November 13, 1916.

Under the Naturalization Act of June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 596, c. 3592,
fees may not rightfully be charged against the United States by a
clerk of a federal court for making triplicate copies of declarations
of intention, or for attaching the seal of the court thereto, pursuant
to the direction of the Bureau of Immigration and Naturalization.
The Naturalization Act, by the affirmative provisions of §§ 12 and 13
defining duties and fees, and by the express prohibition against ad-

ditional charges, contained in § 21, precludes any right of the clerk
which might otherwise exist under Revised Statutes, § 828, to charge
fees against the United States for the services here in question.
50 Ct. Chms. 413, affirmed.

The case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frank B. Crosthwaite and Mr. E. F. Colladay for
appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Thompson for the United
States.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the

opinion of

the court.
The question for decision is, did the court below err
in rejecting the claim of the plaintiff, who is the appellant,

CROSS v. UNITED STATES.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to recover an amount based upon his asserted right as
clerk of the United States District and Circuit Courts
for the District of Rhode Island to be paid fees for making
on the direcion of the Bureau of Immigration and Naturalization triplicate copies of original declarations of
intention for naturalization and attaching the seal of
the court to the same?
The solution of the inquiry depends upon a consideration of §§ 12, 13 and 21 of the Naturalization Act of
June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 596, c. 3592, and the relation to
those provisions of § 828, Rev. Stat.
By § 12 it is provided that it shall be the duty of the
clerk of every court exercising jurisdiction in naturalization matters "to keep and file a duplicate of each declaration of intention made before him and to send to the
Bureau of immigration and Naturalization at Washington,
within thirty days after the issuance of a certificate of
citizenship, a duplicate of such certificate, and to make
and keep on file in his office a stub for each certificate
so issued by him. . . . It shall also be the duty of
the clerk of each of said courts to report to the said Bureau,
within thirty days after the final hearing and decision
of the court, the name of each and every alien who shall
be denied naturalization, and to furnish to said Bureai
duplicates of all petitions within thirty days after the
filing of the same, and certified copies of such other proceedings and orders instituted in or issued out of said
court affecting or relating to the naturalization of aliens
as may be required from time to time by the said
Bureau.'?
By § 13 provision is made for the following fees: "For
receiving and filing a declaration of intention and issuing
a duplicate thereof, one dollar. For making, filing, and
docketing the petition of an alien for admission as a citizen
of the United States and for the final hearing thereon,
two dollars; and for entering the final order and the issu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

ance of the certificate of citizenship thereunder, if granted,
two dollars."
In their ultimate analysis all the arguments for reversal
must come to one or the other or both of the following
propositions: (a) That the declarations of intention were
not proceedings in naturalization covered by § 12 and
therefore the services rendered were outside of that section and governed, not by the enumeration of fees in
§ 13, but by the general provisions of § 828, Rev. Stat.,
authorizing a charge by clerks of ten, cents per folio "for
a copy of any entry or record, or of any paper on file"
and a fee of twenty cents "for affixing the seal of the
court to any instrument, when required." Or (b) if the
declarations of intention of which triplicate copies were
furnished were proceedings in naturalization and within
the requirements of § 12, payment for such copies was
not embraced by the fees enumerated in § 13 and therefore the charge for them must be considered as being
provided for in § 828, Rev. Stat.
But we are of opinion that both of these propositions
are incompatible with §§ 12 and 13 and moreover that
to sanction them would disregard the express prohibition
of § 21, which is as follows:
"That it shall be unlawful for any clerk of any court
or his authorized deputy or assistant exercising jurisdiction in naturalization proceedings, to demand, charge,
collect, or receive any other or additional fees or moneys
in naturalization proceedings save the fees and moneys
herein specified."
We are of opinion the conclusion stated clearly follows
from the prohibition of this section for the following reasons: First, if on the one hand it be assumed that the
duty to furnish the copies. charged for was expressly
commanded by § 12, the right to charge for them would
be clearly prohibited by § 21 even if no provision for
payment was embraced in the fees enumerated in § 13,

PORTUGUESE-AMERICAN BANK v. WELLES.
242 U. S.

7

Syllabus.

since it is apparent from the text that the purpose of the
statute was to permit fees to be charged for the services
expressly provided for in § 12 only when such fees were
enumerated and authorized by § 13,-a conclusion which
is additionally apparent since § 12 unmistakably imposes
duties for which no fees are provided in § 13, but which
are covered by the prohibition of § 21. Second: If on
the other hand it be assumed that, there is no express
provision for furnishing the copies in § 12, but that such
duty only arose in consequence of the general provision
of that section requiring clerks to furnish "certified copies
of such other proceedings and orders instituted in or
issued out of said court affecting or relating to the naturalization of aliens as may be required from time to time by
the said Bureau," it is equally clear that the prohibition
of § 21 would be applicable, since it was plainly intended
to prevent resort to extraneous legislation for the purpose
of supporting the right to charge a fee for services embraced within the general terms of § 12 when no fee was
provided for such services by § 13.
Affirmed.

PORTUGUESE-AMERICAN BANK OF SAN
FRANCISCO v. WELLES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 45.

Argued October 27, 1916.-Decided November 13, 1916.

A provision in a contract between the City of San Francisco and a
construction company declaring that the company shall not, either
legally or equitably, assign any moneys payable thereunder or its
claim thereto, unless with the consent of the Board of Public Works,

