CHES. & OHIO RY. v. PUB. SERVICE COMM.
242 U. S.

603

Syllabus.

Reference to the record in this case shows that the Court
of Appeals ordered "that a special mandate be sent to the
Superior Court of Cincinnati to carry this judgment into
execution;" that is, to carry into effect the judgment of
the Court of Appeals. There was no direction that the
Superior Court enter any judgment in the case; on the
contrary, its judgment was specifically affirmed upon the
record sent to the Court of Appeals, and the only mandate
directed was to carry into effect in the Superior Court, by
execution, the judgment of the Court of Appeals.
In this state of the record, it is clear that the writ of
error in this case, when allowed, should have been directed
to -the Court of Appeals, requiring it to certify to this
court its proceeding and judgment for review here, that
court being the highest court of the State in which a judgment in the case could be rendered.
It follows that the writ of error in this case must be dismissed.
Dismissed.

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY v.
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE STATE
OF WEST VIRGINIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF WEST VIRGINIA.

No. 64.

Argued November 3, 1916.-Decided February 5, 1917.

Following the court below, it is held, that a law-of West Virginia, viz.,
Acts 1881, c. 17, §§ 69, 71; Code 1913, c. 54, §§ 2983, 2995, in declaring that "railroads" shall be public highways "free to all persons

for the transportation of their persons and property," embraces a
branch line constructed and operated under it, and imposes on the
carrier with respect to such line a continuing franchise obligation to

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

transport passengers as well as freight; and that such obligation
may be enforced by state action although the carrier has long operated the branch in freight traffic only and never in any other.
The duty to provide adequate transportation facilities for the public,
which arises with the acceptance and accompanies the enjoyment
of the privileges which a railroad company receives from a State,
cannot be avoided merely upon the ground that performance will
be attended by. some pecuniary loss.
In passing upon the reasonableness of a state order requiring transportation service, the fact that a pecuniary loss will result to the
carrier is not the only circumstance to be considered; the nature and
extent of the carrier's intrastate business, its productiveness, the
character of service required, the public need for it, and its effect
upon the service already being rendered, are to be considered also.
75 W. Va. 100, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. F. B. Enslow, with whom Mr. H. Fitzpatrickwas on
the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. S. B. Avis and Mr. F. C. Pifer for defendant in error,
submitted.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This was a proceeding under the laws of West Virginia
(Acts 1913, c. 9, §_16) to suspend and vicate an order of
the Public Service Commission of that State requiring the
Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Company to install and maintain upon a branch line in that State a passenger service
consisting of two passenger trains daily each way. The order was assailed on several grounds, one of these being that
it was violative of the due process and equal protection
clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States. The Supreme Court of Appeals of
the State held that none of the objections was tenable, 75

CHES. & OHIO RY. v. PUB. SERVICE COMM.
242 U. S.

605

Opinion of the Court.

W. Va. 100, and the railway company brought the case
here.
In so fax as the decision turned upon questions of state
law it is controlling, our power of review being restricted
to the federal question. Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic
Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61, 75.
The order was made after a full hearing wherein the
railway company was permitted to present all the evidence
which it regarded as helpful. There was but little conflict
in the evidence and the facts which must here be regarded
as proved are these: The railway company is a Virginia
corporation and owns and operates several lines of railroad
in West Virginia, including a main line along the Kanawha
River. This line consists of two tracks, one on the north
side of the river for west-bound trains and one on the south
side for trains that are east-bound. Among the stations
on the north side is one called Hawks Nest, and across the
river is another called MacDougal, the two being connected by a railroad bridge. The main line and these
stations are used for both freight and passenger traffic.
The company also owns and operates a standard gauge
branch line extending from MacDougal and Hawks Nest
to the town of Ansted, a little more than two miles, and
thence another mile to some extensively operated coal
mines. This is the branch line to which the order in question relates. Ansted has a population of twelve hundred or
more and is the trading center for a population of six
thousand. The branch line was constructed in 1890 and
has been used for freight traffic only, that is to say, for
hauling empty cars to the coal mines and loaded cars from
the mines to the main line, and for carrying other freight
between the main line and Ansted. The railway company
has a freight station at Ansted in charge of an agent and
helper, and also maintains a telegraph service there.
There is no other railroad at that place and the nearest
passenger stations are Hawks Nest and MacDougal. In

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

the year preceding the order the number of passengers
taking the main line passenger trains at these stations was
12,714, and of this number ninety per cent. came from
Ansted. In the same year the shipments of coal and other
freight over the branch line aggregated 242,280 tons.
From an operating standpoint there is no serious obstacle to installing upon the branch line the sei-vice which
the order requires, but the curves and grades are such that
particular attention must be given to making the road-bed
secure and to providing suitable devices for controlling
the trains. Isolatedly considered, such a passenger serivice would not presently be remunerative but would entail a pecuniary loss, and how long this would continue
to be true can only be conjectured. But beyond this the
effect from a revenue standpoint of installing such a
scrvice is not shown. It does not appear either that the
company's intrastate passenger business in that State
would not yield a reasonable return, or that the traffic,
freight and passenger, passing over the branch line to and
from points on the main line would not do so.
In support of its position that the order is essentially
unreasonable and arbitrary, and therefore repugnant to
the due process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment, the railway company contends that
the order requires a passenger service to be ifistalled and
maintained upon the branch line when that line never has
been devoted to anything other than the transportation
of freight and when the service ordered, if separately considered, cannot be rendered without pecuniary loss.
It well may be that the power of regulation which a
State possesses over private property devoted to public
use gives' no warrant for requiring that an existing line of
railroad lawfully devoted to a particular public use, such
as carrying freight, shall be devoted to a further public
use, such as carrying passengers, Northern Pacific Ry. Co.
v. North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585, 595; but, even if this

CHES. & OHIO RY. v. PUB. SERVICE COMM.
242 U. S.

607

Opinion of the Court.

be so, it has no bearing on the validity of the order in
question.
As the opinion of the state court shows, the act whereby
the railway company was granted the right to construct
and operate the branch line did not leave the company free
to devote it to freight service only or to passenger service
only, but declared that it should be a public highway and
"free to all persons for the transportation of their persons
and property," subject to the payment of the lawful
charges for such transportation. Acts 1881, c. 17, §§ 69,
71; Code 1913, c. 54, §§ 2983, 2995. True, the section containing this declaration speaks of "railroads" without
particularly mentioning branch lines, but that it embraces
the latter is shown by the state court's opinion, which
says that this branch line, when constructed, "became an
integral part of the extensive Chesapeake & Ohio system,
and must be treated and controlled as such, and not merely
as a segregated part of it." Thus, in legal contemplation,
the branch line was devoted to the transportation of
passengers as well as of freight, even though actually used
only for the latter. An obligation to use it for both was
imposed by law, and so could not be thrown off or extinguished by any act or omission of the railway company.
It follows that the order, instead of enlarging the public
purpose to which the line was devoted, does no more than
to prevent a part of that purpose from being neglected.
One of the duties of a railroad company doing business
as a common carrier is that of providing reasonably
adequate facilities for serving the public. This duty arises
out of the acceptance and enjoyment of the powers and
privileges granted by the State and endures so long as they
are retained. It represents a part of what the company
undertakes to do in return for them, and its performance
cannot be avoided merely because it will be attended by
some pecuniary loss. Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Co. v.
North Carolina Corporation Commission, 206 U. S. 1, 26;

608

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 262, 279;
Oregon Railroad & Navigation Co. v. Fairchild, 224 U. S.
510, 529; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. Wisconsin Railroad Commission, 237 U. S. 220, 229. That

there will be such a loss is, of course, a circumstance to be
considered in passing upon the reasonableness of the order,
but it is not the only one. The nature and extent of the
carrier's business, its productiveness, the character of
service required, the public need for it, and its effect upon
the service already being rendered, are also to be considered. Cases supra. Applying these criteria to the order
in question, we think it is not shown to be unreasonable.
Judgment affirmed.

