OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

242 U. S.

of the Supreme Court of New York. That court had
jurisdiction because the plaintiff and his property were in
New York; and the essentials of due process of law were
met. The orders, consequently, are not void; and they
are not subject to this collateral attack. See United
States v. Throckmorton, 98 U. S. 61; Hilton v. Guyot, 159
U. S. 113, 207. If it be true that the orders ought to be
set aside either because they were, as alleged, entered
corruptly, irregularly, or inadvertently, or because owing
to a change in plaintiff's condition a committee is no
longer required, the remedy must be sought by a direct
proceeding to that end. Matter of Curtiss, 137 App. Div.
584; 199 N. Y. 36. No evidence was introduced to Drove
that even an attempt was made to vacate or modify the
orders. In this action of trover which seeks merely damages for alleged wrongful withhdlding of plaintiff's property, the existing orders constitute a complete defense.
The evidence offered was properly excluded, and there
was no error in directing a verdict for the defendant.
Judgment affirmed.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY ET
AL. v. WILLIAMS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MISSISSIPPI.
No. 637.

Argued December 6, 1916.-Decided January 8, 1917.

Section 2 of the supplementary Safety Appliance Act of April 14, 1910.
c. 160, 36 Stat. 298, requiring interstate railway carriers to equip
their cars with secure running-boards, ladders, and hand-holds or
grab-irons, became effective July 1, 1911.
The purpose of § 3 of the act is to standardize the appliances required
by § 2, and the purpose of the proviso in it is to confer authority

ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. R. CO. v. WILLIAMS.
242 U. S.

463

Opinion of the Court.

on the Interstate Commerce Commission to extend the time within
which the carriers may conform to the established standards, but
it does not authorize the Commission to change the date upon which
§ 2 became effective.
72 So. Rep. 158, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles C. LeForgee, with whom Mr. Blewett Lee,
Mr. Charles N. Burch and Mr. Robert B. Mayes were on
the briefs, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. M. F. Harringtonand Mr. William H. Watkins for
defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.
It will contribute to brevity in this opinion to designate
the parties as they were in the state circuit court; the defendant in error as plaintiff and the railroad companies as
defendants.
The plaintiff, a switchman in the employ of the defendants, was in the act of mounting, by means of a ladder, to
the top of a box car to set the brake, when the hand hold
or grab iron placed at the top of the ladder, and intended
to be fastened securely to the roof of the car, gave way,
causing him to fall to the ground and sustain injuries, for
which he instituted suit in a circuit court of Mississippi,
and recovered a judgment, which was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the State. This judgment is now here
for review on writ of error.
Counsel for the defendants concede that the plaintiff
pleaded and proved a case which entitles him to recover
under the provisions of the supplement to the Federal
Safety Appliance Act, approved April 14, 1910, if § 2 of
that act was in effect at the time the accident to the plaintiff occurred on the night of March 15th, 1913; but they

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

claim that this section of the act was not in effect at that
time, because it had been-suspended until July 1st, 1916,
by an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission,
issued on March 13th, 1911, under the authority contained
in the proviso of § 3 of the act.
Thus the sole question presented for decision is, Does
the order issued by the Interstate Commerce Commission
on March 13th, 1911, suspend the provisions of § 2 of the
act under discussion until July 1sty 1916?
To answer this question requires an examination of
§§ 2 and 3 of the Act of April 14, 1910, and of the order of
the Interstate Commerce Commission of March 13th,
1911.
Section 2 of the act provides that on and after July 1st,
1911, "All cars" used by any common carrier subject to
the act, "requiring secure ladders and secure running
boards shall be equipped with such ladders and running
boards, and all cars having ladders shall also be equipped
with secure hand holds or grab irons on their roofs at the
tops of such ladders," and it makes it unlawful to use cars
not so equipped.
A box car could not.properly be used without a secure
ladder and since, by its-terms, all cars having ladders must
be equipped with secure hand holds, the application of
this section (if it was not suspended) to the case at bar,
the neglect of its requirements, and the liability of the
defendants to the plaintiff for the result to him of such
neglect are too clear for discussion. Texas & Pacific Ry.
Co. v. Rigsby, 241 U. S. 33.
Section 3 of the act provides that within six months
from the passage of the act the Interstate Commerce
Commission "shall designate the number, dimensions,
location, and manner of application of the appliances
provided for by section two of this Act" and shall give notice
of such designation to all common carriers subject to the
provisions of the act by such means as the Commission

ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. R. CO. v. WILLIAMS. 465
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

may deem proper, and "thereafter said number, location,
dimensions, and manner of application as designated by
said commission, shall remain as the standards of equipment to be used on all cars subject to the provisions of
this Act;" and failure to conform its equipment to such
standards shall subject the neglecting carrier to like
penalty as failure to comply with any requirements of the
act. Then follows this proviso, upon which the defendants rely, viz:
"Provided, That the Interstate Commerce Commission
may, upon full hearing and for good cause, extend the
period within which any common carrier shall comply with
the provisions of this section with respect to the equipment
of cars actually in service upon the date of the passage
of this act."
Pursuant to the command of this third section, the
Interstate Commerce Commission, on March 13th, 1911,
issued an order designating "the number, dimensions,
location, and manner of application of the appliances provided for by section 2 of the act," and specifically describing the size, character, and location of ladders on
"freight-train cars" and of hand holds to be maintained
at the tops of such ladders. By the terms of this order
carriers were granted an extension of five years from
July 1st, 1911, in which to bring such safety appliances
into compliance with the standards by it prescribed.
The claim of the defendant railway companies with
respect to these two sections is built up wholly upon the
assertion, it cannot properly be called argument, that
because, in the part of § 3 just quoted, reference is made to
§ 2 for a description of the safety appliances to be standardized, therefore the whole of § 2 must be treated as so
incorporated into § 3 as to be comprehended within the
expression of the proviso giving power to the Interstate
Commerce Commission to extend the period within which
any common carrier "shall comply with the provisions of

OCTOBER TEAM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

this (the third) section," etc., and that § 2 was therefore
suspended until July 1st, 1916, by the Commission's order
of March 13th, 1911.
That this strained and artificial construction of the
section cannot be allowed, may be made clear by a brief
consideration of the terms and purposes of the two sections
of the act.
The congressional purpose in enacting § 2 of the act is
very plain. At the time the act was passed railroad carriers had in service many box cars, requiring for their
proper use secure ladders and secure hand holds or grab
irons on their roofs at the tops of such ladders, and the
purpose of this section clearly is to convert the general
legal duty of exercising ordinary care to provide such
safety appliances and to keep them in repair, into a
statutory, an absolute and imperative duty, of making
them "secure" and to enforce this duty by appropriately
severe penalties. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Ry. Co.
v. United States, 220 U. S. 559.
It is equally clear that the purpose of the third section
is to require that the safety appliances "provided for by
section two of this Act" shall ultimately conform to a
standard to be prescribed by the Interstate Commerce
Commission, that is, that they shall be standardized, shall
be of uniform size and character, and so far as ladders and
hand holds are concerned, shall be placed as nearly as
possible at a corresponding place on every car so that
employees who work always in haste, and often in darkness and storm, may not be betrayed, to their injury or
death, when they instinctively reach for the only protection which can avail them when confronted by such a
crisis as often arises in their dangerous service. It is for
such emergencies that these safety appliances are provided,-for service in those instant decisions upon which
the safety of life or limb of a man so often depends in this
perilous employment,-and therefore this law requires

ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. R. CO. v. WILLIAMS.
242 U. S.

467'

Opinion of the Court.

that ultimately the location of these ladders and hahndt
holds shall be absolutely fixed so that the employee will
know certainly that night or day he will find them in like
place and of like size and usefulness on all cars,'from whatever line of railway or section of the country they may
come. This highly important and humane purpose must
not be defeated by finesse of construction such as is pressed
upon our attention in the argument of this case.
To this primary purpose of protecting the life and limb
of employees is added the purpose of protecting the lives of
passengers and of securing the safety of property by requiring uniform standards as to other equipment'of cars,
such as coupling appliances, brakes and the like.
To change these safety appliances on all the cars in the
country from what they were as contemplated by § 2,"secure " but differing "in number, dimensions, location,
and manner of application,"-to what they must be when
standardized to meet the requirements provided for in
§ 3, was regarded by Congress as a work so great and so
expensive that it wisely committed to the informed discretion of the Interstate Commerce Commission the power
and duty of determining the length of time which the
carriers should be allowed in which to accomplish it. To
give this discretion to the Commission is the function, and
the only function, of the proviso of § 3 and the claim
that, by construction, power may be found in it to suspend § 2 is too forced and unnatural to be seriously considered.
This reading of the two sections makes them stand
together as an expression of a consistent congressional
purpose "to promote the safety of employees and travelers
on railroads" on and after July 1st, 1911, by requiring
that the safety appliances described in § 2 of the act shall
be secure and efficient from that date, and by requiring as
§ 3 provides that these appliances shall be brought as.
speedily as may be to a uniform standard of location, size

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

242 U. S.

and usefulness, to be prescribed by the Interstate Commerce Commission.
While the question we have considered has not been
presented to this court before in precisely the form in
which we have it here, yet § 2 of the act was treated by
this court as in full force as of September 4, 1912, in Texas
& Pacific Ry. Co. v. Rigsby, 241 U. S. 33, and the Supreme
Court of the State of Minnesota in Coleman v. Illinois
Central R. R. Co., 132 Minnesota, 22, and the Supreme
Court of Iowa in Cook v. Union Pacific Ry. Co., 158 N. W.
Rep. 521, while arriving at their conclusions by somewhat
different analyses of the sections of the Act of April 14,
1910, have given to them precisely the meaning and
effect which we are giving to them in this decision. It
results that the judgment of the Supreme Court of Mississippi is

Affirmed.

BERRY ET AL., CONSTITUTING THE BOARD OF
PAROLE OF IOWA, ET AL. v. DAVIS.'
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
No. 47.

Submitted October 26, 1916.-Decided January 15, 1917.

When injunctive relief against action by state officials granted in
the court below becomes superfluous and the case moot because of
subsequent state legislation passed while the case is here pending, this
1 On December 4, 1916, the Chief Justice made the following announcement:
"Attention is directed to the fact that the statute of Iowa of April 19,
1913, Supplement to Iowa Code, 1913, p. 1082, concerning which the
appellee complained and the enforcement of which by the board of
parole he sought by his suit to enjoin, has been repealed during the
pendency of the case in this court (see Act of 1915, Supplemental

