LAKE SHORE & MICH. SO. RY. CO. v. CLOUGH.
242 U. S.

37.5

Syllabus.

We conclude,, therefore, that the administrative finding
which this patent imports was not to be taken as decisive
of the allottee's age for any purpose other than that of
fixing his right to receive the full title freed from all the
restrictions upon its disposal which Congress had imposed.
With those restrictions entirely removed and the fee
simple patent issued it would seem that the situation was
one in which all questions pertaining to the disposal of
the lands naturally would fall within .the scope and operation of the laws of the State. And that Congress so intended is shown by the Act of May 8, 1906, c. 2348, 34
Stat. 182, which provides that when an Indian allottee
is given a patent in fee for his allotment he "shall have
the benefit of and be subject to the laws, both civil and
criminal, of the State." Among the laws to which the
allottee became subject, and to the benefit of which he
became entitled, under this enactment were those governing the transfer of real property, fixing the age of majority
and declaring the disability of minors.
Judgment affirmed.

LAKE SHORE & MICHIGAN SOUTHERN RAILWAY
COMPANY ET AL. v. CLOUGH ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
No. 87.

Argued November 9, 10, 1916.-Decided January 8, 1917.

By the terms of the Indiana Railway Law of May 11, 1852, and amendments (1 Ind: Rev. Stats. 1852, p. 409, § 13; 2 Bums' Ann. Ind.
Stats. 1914, §§ 5176 et seq., § 5195), as construed by the Supreme
Court of the State, the obligation assumed by companies deriving
their franchises thereunder to construct their railways over streams,
water-courses and canals "so as not to interfere with the free use
of the same," etc., is a continuing obligation, under which such

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

companies must bear without compensation the burden of repairing
and adjusting their roads and bridges when canals are made across
their rights of way,*or natural streams intersecting them are deepened, in the execution of public drainage projects, pursuant to the
Drainage Act of March 11, 1907 (Laws 1907, p. 508; 3 Burns' Ann.
Ind. Stats. 1914, § 6140).
Due process is not denied by refusing compensation for the temporary
inconvenience, or the cost of railway reconstruction, resulting from
the making of a drainage improvement across the rights of way of
railway companies, when the improvement is made for the public
benefit in the proper exercise of the state police power, and neither
wantonly nor arbitrarily, when no land of the companies is taken,
but their easements merely crossed, and when the duty of accommodating their railroads to such improvements is part of the obligation assumed in accepting their franchises from the State.
The state drainage law, § 3, as construed by the state court, allows
compensation for damages to the roads and bridges of public corporations, viz., counties, which have not agreed to bear such damages themselves, but no compensation for like damages to private
railway corporations which have made, such agreements in advance,
through their charter undertakings. Held, a substantial distinction,
satisfying the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
182 Indiana, 178, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. John B. Peterson and Mr. J. A. Gavit, with whom
Mr. Addison C. Harris and Mr. Robert J. Cary were on

the briefs, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. John H. Gillett and Mr. Frank B. Pattee, with whom
Mr. Randall W. Burns was on the briefs, for defendants
in error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The Little Calumet River rises in LaPorte County,
Indiana, flows westerly across that and the adjoining
counties of Porter and Lake into the State of Illinois, and,
after continuing its course for some distance in that State,

LAKE SHORE & MICH. SO. RY. CO. v. CLOUGH.
242 U. S.

377

Opinion of the Court.

empties into the*Big Grand Calumet, which in turn
empties into Lake Michigan. In Indiana the river runs
approximately parallel to the south shore of the lake. Intervening is a ridge of sandy land about one mile in width,
30 feet higher than the water level of the lake, and 10 feet
higher than the river. The Lake Shore & Michigan
Southern and the Chicago, Indiana & Southern companies
own parallel railroad lines running along this ridge. Neitier of these roads crosses the river in Indiana. The
Michigan Central Railroad crosses the river in that State
upon a steel bridge resting on abutments and piers. The
Calumet Valley, in Porter and Lake counties, is a mile or
more in width,. lying between the ridge on the north and
low hills 'on the south. The watershed drained by the
river in Indiana is about 350 square miles. At times the
river fails to carry within its banks all the water, and the
overflows produce a marsh having an area of 14,000 acres.
,Under "An Act concerning drainage," approved March 11,
1907.(Laws 1907, p. 508; 3 Burns Ann. Ind. Statsi 1914,
§ 6140), application was made by defendants in error,
owners of lands affected by the overflows, to the Porter
Circuit Court, for the establishment of a proposed plan
of drainage, its essential features being the cutting of an
artificial channel for a considerable distance along the
course of the Little Calumet and at such a gradient as to
reverse the direction of its flow, and the construction of
an outlet for its waters in the form of an open ditch to run
northwardly, cutting through the sandy ridge and emptying into the lake. Pursuant to the provisions of the act,
the petition was referred to the drainage comm.issioners.
They made a report in favor of the proposed plan, and
assessed substantial damages, .in excess of benefits, in favor
of the Chicago, Indiana & Southern and the Lake Shore
& Michigan Southern companies with respect to their
rights of way. No benefits or damages were appraised to
the Michigan 'Central. Uhder § 4 of the act certain land-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

owners assessed with benefits filed remonstrances against
the awards of damages to the former two companies.
Each of the three companies filed remonstrances: the
Lake Shore & Michigan Southern and the Chicago, Indiana & Southern upon the ground that the damages
awarded to them were inadequate because the new ditch,
where it was to cross their rights of way, would be 70 feet
wide at the bottom, about 30 feet deep, and about 200
feet wide at the top, and the expense of bridging it, with
the tracks, would in each instance be upwards of $100,000;
the Michigan Central, because no damages were assessed
in its favor although by the deepening of the channel of
the river at its crossing it would be required to take out
the present piers and abutments and erect new ones to
support the bridge at a cost of about $60,000. Upon the
commissioners' report and the remonstrances the matter
came on for hearing before the Circuit Court, where findings were made setting forth the necessity for the drainage,
stating the plan in detail, finding that it would be practicable to accomplish the proposed drainage without an
expense exceeding the aggregate benefits; that the proposed work would benefit the public health, would improve the public highways in several townships specified,
and would be of public utility. It was further found
that the Chicago, Indiana & Southern an:l Lake Shore &
Michigan Southern companies, whose roads were to be
crossed by the main ditch, had no property other than
their right of way that would be affected or -interfered
with or touched by the drainage, proceeding, and these
companies would not be damaged by the construction
of the proposed drain; and that at the point where the
ditch was to pass under the bridge of the Michigan Central
the natural channel of the stream would have to be deepened, and this would necessitate the rebuilding of the
abutments and piers upon which the bridge rested, but
that this company would neither be damaged nor benefited

LAKE SHORE & MICH. SO. RY. CO. v. CLOUGH.
242 U. S.

379

Opinion of the Court.

by the proposed drain. A motion for a new trial having
been overruled, a judgment was rendered confirming the
report of the commissioners as modified by the court and
ordering that the proposed work of drainage be established.
The three companies appealed to the Supreme Court of
Indiana, where the judgment was affirmed (182 Indiana,
178), and they bring the case here upon questions raised
under the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution.
The principal contention of the Lake Shore & Michigan
Southern and the Chicago, Indiana & Southern companies
is that since their railroads are not within the area to be
drained, and neither contribute to the formation of the
marsh nor are to be in anywise benefited by its drainage,
their lands can be taken only through the exercise of the
power of eminent domain, 'with appropriate compensation, and that a denial of such compensation is a taking of
their property without due process of law. A right to
compensation is asserted in behalf of the Michigan Central
on the ground that its present bridge and abutments form
no obstruction to the natural flow of the Little Calumet
River.
It will be observed that none of the lands of any plaintiff
in error is expropriated. The damage they suffer is confined to a temporary inconvenience in the use of their
rights of way pending the construction of the drain and
the necessity for making substantial expenditures of money
in order to pass their railroads over the new watercourse.
But the record shows that each of the companies was
organized and had its existence under the general laws of
the State for the incorporation of railroad companies, that
is to say, an act approved May 11, 1852, and amendments
thereto. 1 Ind. Rev. Stats. 1852, p. 409; 2 Burns' Ann.
Ind. Stats. 1914, §§ 5176 et seq. By § 13 of this act (as
found in Burns, § 5195) it is declared: "Every such corporation shall possess the general 'powers, and be subject

O

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

to the liabilities and restrictions expressed in the special
powers following: . . . Fifth: To construct its road
upon or across any stream of water, water-course, highway,
railroad or canal, so as not to interfere with the free use
of the same, which the route of its road shall intersect,
in such manner as to afford security for life and property;
but the corporation shall restore the stream or watercourse, road or highway, thus intersected, to its former
state, or in a sufficient manner not to unnecessarily impair
its usefulness or injure its franchises."
Concerning the duty thus imposed upon railroad companies with respect to highway crossings, it has been held
by the Supreme Court of Indiana in a long line of cases
that the duty is applicable not only to, the original construction of a railroad across highways then in existence,
but also where highways are laid out and opened across a
railroad after its construction; that it is a continuing duty,
requiring the railroad to keep pace with the times, with
the increase of public travel, the change of methods and
improvements of highways, and the public desire for the
increased ease and convenience of the traveling public.
Louisville, New Albany & Chicago Ry. Co. v. Smith, 91
Indiana, 119, 121; Evansville &c. R. R. Co. v. Crist, 116
Indiana, 446, 454; Chicago &c. Ry. Co. v. State, 158 Indiana, 189, 191; Chicago &c. Ry. Co. v. State, 159
Indiana, 237, 240; Baltimore &c. R. R. Co. v. State, 159
Indiana, 510, 519; Lake Erie &c. R. R. Co. v. Shelley, 163
Indiana, 36, 41; Southern Indiana Ry. Co. v. McCarrell,
i63 Indiana, 469, 473; Vandalia R. R. Co. v. State, 166
Indiana, 219, 223; Cincinnati &c. Ry. Co. v. Connersville,
170 Indiana, 316, 323, affirmed by- this court 218 U. S.
336; New York &c. R. R. Co. v. Rhodes, 171 Indiana, 521,
525; Pittsburgh &c. Ry. Co. v. Gregg, 181 Indiana, 42, 53.
But in the Railroad Act streams, watercourses, and
canals are mentioned along with roads and highways.
The terms employed are broad enough to include artificial

LAKE SHORE & MICH. SO. RY. CO. v. CLOUG I. 381
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

watercourses, whether employed for traffic, for irrigation,
or for drainage. And accordingly it has been held by the
Supreme Court of the State that with respect to a public
ditch constructed under the drainage act of 1907 railroad
companies are under the same duty as with respect to
highways, and that the company acquires its right of way
subject to the right of the State to extend such ditches
across it, without compensation to the company for the
interruption and inconvenience, if any, or for' increased
expense or risk, or for the cost of accommodating the
railroad line to the crossing. Chicago & Erie R. R. Co. v.
Luddington, 175 Indiana, 35, 38-40; Wabash R. R. Co. v.
Jackson, 176 Indiana, 487, 490.
No question is made but that the settled law of the
State is as we have stated it, and that the charter obligations of plaintiffs in error are such as we have defined.
An attempt is made to distinguish the Luddington Case
upon the ground that the railroad there in question was
within the drainage district, and the Jackson Case upon
the ground that the railroad had built an embankment
across a valley without providing sufficient culverts to
carry off the water of the creek in time of heavy rains.
It is contended that since in the present case the Lake
Shore & Michigan Southern and the Chicago, Indiana &
Southern roads lie upon the top of the ridge between the
Little Calumet River and Lake Michigan, and do not in
anywise cause or contribute to the marsh, and are not
benefited by the proposed drainage, they cannot lawfully
be included within the drainage district. And as to the
Michigan Central, it is argued that, since its bridge as
heretofore constructed does not obstruct the natural flow
of the stream, it cannot be subjected to any part of the
cost of the drainage system. These distinctions, and a
reference made in the same connection to Myles Salt Co.
v. Iberia Drainage District, 239 U. S. 478, are aside from
the real point of the case. The State is not proposing to

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

assess plaintiffs in error for benefits with respect to the
drainage project, nor to tax them for its support. It is
requiring them merely to bear the cost of constructing
crossings for their railroad lines over the proposed new
channel and outlet, "so as not to interfere with the free
use of the same," and "in a sufficient manner not to unnecessarily impair its usefulness." With respect to this
duty, if. the State has a right to impose it in aid of the
drainage project, the remoteness or proximity of the area
to be drained is wholly immaterial.
In view of the obligations assumed by the respective
companies when they accepted their franchises at the
hands of the State, it is very clear that the State may
exercise its police power in laying out an artificial watercourse across the rights of way without making compensation to the companies for the inconvenience and expense
to which they are thereby subjected, unless, indeed, it
be made to appear that the power is being exerted arbitrarily, or WArantonly, or for private as distinguished from
public benefit, or otherwise in disregard of the fundamental rights of the companies concerned, in either of
which cases there would be an abuse rather than an
exercise of the power, and the project could not lawfully
be carried out against their opposition, with or without
compensation.
In Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R R. Co. v. Chicago,
166 U. S. 226, 252, where the city was condemning certain
parts of the right of way of the railroad for the opening
and widening of a street across it, and only nominal compensation was awarded, it was contended among other
things that the company was deprived of its property
without due process of law, because in ascertaining the
compensation the cost of constructing gates and a tower
for operating them, planking the crossing, filling between
the rails, putting in an extra rail, and the annual expense
of depreciations, maintenance, etc.; were disregarded.

LAKE SHORE & MICH. SO. RY. CO. v. CLOUGH.
242 U.S.

383

Opinion of the Court.

But the court held that since the company took its charter
and laid its tracks subject to the condition that their use
might be regulated by the State so as to insure the public
safety, the exercise of that authority by the State was
not subject to a condition that the company should be
indemnified for the damage resulting from its exercise.
In Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Ry. Co. v. DrainageCommissioners, 200 U. S. 561, 582, 595, a plan of drainage
required the enlarging and deepening of a natural watercourse over which the railway crossed by a bridge, and
the plan could not be carried out without the removal of
certain timbers and stones placed in the creek by the
company when it constructed the foundation for the
bridge, and these could not be removed without destroying the foundation and rendering it necessary to construct
another bridge with an opening wide enough to carry the
increased flow of the creek under the drainage system
adopted. The court held it to be the duty of the railway
company at its own expense to remove from the creek
the bridge, culvert, timbers and stones placed there by it,
and at its own expense to erect and maintain a new bridge
to conform to the regulations established by the drainage
commissioners under the authority of the State, and that
the enforcement of such a requirement would not amount
to a taking of private property for public use within the
meaning of the Constitution. In Cincinnati, Indianapolis
& Western Ry. Co. v. Connersville, 218 U. S. 336, 344, it
was held that since the railway company accepted its
'franchise from the State subject to the condition that it
would conform at its own expense to any regulations, not
arbitrary in their character, as to the opening or use of
streets which had for their object the safety of the public
or the promotion of the public convenience, the company
had no right to be reimbursed for the moneys necessarily
expended in constructing a bridge over a public street
laid out through its embankment. In Chicago, Milwaukee

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

& St. PaulRy. Co. v. Minneapolis, 232 U. S. 430, the same
doctrine was applied, and held to sustain the refusal of
compensation for the cost of constructing and niaintaining
a railroad bridge across a gap in the right of way made
by the construction under the authority of the State of a
canal to unite two lakes that formed a part of a public
park.
It requires no argument to show that the establishment
of a system of public drainage in the interest of the health
and general welfare of the people is likewise an object that
legitimately invokes the exercise of the police power of
the State. New Orleans-Gas Light Co. v. Drainage Commission, 197 U. S.453, 460; -Chicago, Burlington & Quincy
Ry. Co. v. Drainage Commissioners, 200 U. S. 561, 592;
Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. y. Goldsboro, 232 U. S. 548,
561.
In the present case it is not and could not reasonably be
contended that the State is exercising its power arbitrarily, or wantonly, or for a private -benefit. It. cannot
be doubted that the general object of the drainage act of
1907 is to subserve the public interest. Its 2d section
requires that petitioners for the establishment of a drainage project shall declare their opinion "that the public
health will be improved, or that one or -more public highWays of the county, or street or streets of, or within the
,orporate limits of a city or town, will be benefited by the
proposed drainage, or that the proposed work will be of
public utility." By the 3d section the commissioners are
required to consider whether this is true, and if not th~e
petition is to be dismissed; and by § 4 it is made a suffi[ient ground of remonstrance, resulting if sustained in the
dismissal of the proceedings, "that the proposed work
will neither improve -the public health nor benefit any
public highway of the county, nor be of public utility."
As to the particular project under consideration, it is
specifically found, as we have seen, that a public benefit

LAKE SHORE & MICH. SO. RY. CO. v. CLOUGH.
-242 U. S.

385

Opinion of the Court.

will result. In the Luddington Case, 175 Indiana, 38, it
was expressly declared that ditches established under this
law axe public ditches of the State whose construction
and repair axe matters of public or state concern. Therep
exists, therefore, no basis for holding that by the judgment
under review the property of any of the plaintiffs in error
is taken without due process of law within the meaning
of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The "equal protection" clause of the same Amendment
is invoked upon the ground that whereas by § 3 ot' the
drainage act (Laws 1907, p. 513; 3 Burns 1914, § 6142,
p. 135) the commissioners are required to "assess the
benefits or damages as the case may be to each separate
tract of land to be affected thereby, and to easements
held by railway or other corporations, as well as to cities,
towns, or other public or private corporations, including
any land, rights, easements or water power, injuriously or
beneficially affected," there is discrimination in the judgment, in that an award is made in favor of Lake County
for damage to bridges and highways, while compensation
to plaintiffs in error for damages to their respective roads,
and to the Michigan Central for damages to its bridge, is
denied. But as has been held many times, the "equal
protection" clause does not deprive the States of power
to resort to classification for purposes of legislation; and
unless it appears that a state law as construed and applied
by the state court of last resort bases discriminations upon
arbitrary distinctions, we cannot judicially declare that
the State has refused to give equal protection of the laws.
Singer Sewing Machine Co. v. Brickell, 233 U. S. 304, 315;
Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Co., v. Cade, 233 U. S. 642,
650. In the present case the Supreme Court of Indiana
in effect held that § 3 of the drainage act did not entitle
a railway company to damages in respect of its right of
way which was not affected by the proposed drainage in
any manner otherwise than by acceptance of its charter

386

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

242 U. S.

it had agreed to submit to. There is a very evident and
substantial basis for a distinction that denies compensation to a private corporation in such a case while at the
same. time allowing compensation to a public corporation
that has made no such agreement.
Judgment affirmed.

HARNAGE ET AL. v. MARTIN ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE STATE OF

OKLAHROMA.

No. 112. Argued December 19, 1916.--Decided January 8, 1917.
Of two qualified applicants for anallotment under § 11 of the Cherokee
Agreement of 1902 (Act of July 1, 1902, c. 1375, 32 Stat. 716), the
.one owning the improvements on the tract in question, though junior
in time of application, is entitled to prevail.
In such case a substantial equity in the improvements will suffice to
hold the tract against a claimant whose interest in them is nil.
A decision of the Secretary of the Interior that one of two contesting
claimants of an allotment under § 11 of the Cherokee Agreement,
supra, was the owner of the improvements on the land, is conclusive,
unless made without evidence to support it or otherwise the result
of an error of law.
Where a community of interest in the possession and improvements
of a tract of land existed among several members of a Cherokee
family, an agreement among them that one should have a specific
part of the land for her allotment, held, operative to pass an interest
in the improvements on that parcel sufficient to give a preferential
right to select it under § 1.1 of the Cherokee Agreement of 1902.
Section 18 of the Cherokee Agreement of 1902 recognized in terms
the right of a tribal member to hold possession by his agent as well
as by himself of land not exceeding the allottable quantity.
Certain proceedings before the Commissioner to the Five Civilized
Tribes, and others in the United States Court for the Indian Territory, for the sale of the improvements upon the allotment here in

