HALL v. GEIGER-JONES CO.
242 U. S.

Syllabus.

HALL, SUPERINTENDENT OF BANKS AND
BANKING OF THE STATE OF OHIO v. GEIGERJONES COMPANY. 1
HALL, SUPERINTENDENT OF BANKS AND
BANKING OF THE STATE OF OHIO v. COULTRAP.
HALL, SUPERINTENDENT OF BANKS AND
BANKING OF THE STATE OF OHIO ET AL. v.
ROSE ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Nos. 438, 439, 440.

Argued October 16, 17, 1916.-Decided January 22,
1917.

The Ohio "Blue Sky Law," Supplement to Page & Adams' Ann. Gen.
Code of Ohio, 1916, vol. 2, §§ 6373-1 to 6373-24, examined as to its
constitutionality and upheld.
In the exercise of the power to prevent fraud and imposition, Hutchinson Ice Cream Co. v. Iowa, ante, 153, a State may forbid dealing in
stocks and other securities within its borders without a license, and
subject the business to executive supervision.
The liability of a business to regulation is not necessarily dependent
upon its liability to be abolished under the police power.
Under the so-called "Blue Sky Law" of Ohio, dealers within its provisions (including companies floating their own issues) are not licensed
to sell stocks and other securities unless an executive officer designated is satisfied of the good business repute of the applicants and
their agents, and licenses, when issued, may be revoked by him upon
ascertaining that the licensees are of bad business repute, have violated any provision of the act, or have engaged, or are about to engage, under favor of their licenses, in illegitimate business or frauduThese cases, together with Caldwell et al. v. Sioux Falls Stock Yards
Co. et al., post, 559, involving the "Blue Sky Law" of South Dakota,
and Merrick et al. v. Halsey & Co. et al., post, 568, involving the "Blue
Sky Law" of Michigan, have been styled for convenience "The Blue
Sky Cases."

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Statement of the Case.

242 U. S.

lent transactions; his findings, however, are made subject to judicial
review. Held, that the powers thus conferred are not arbitrary but
consistent with due process under the Fourteenth Amendment.
Gundling v. Chicago, 177 U. S. 183.
The fact that the statute designates a particular court to review the
executive findings does not affect its validity.
It is to be presumed that the executive officer will act properly in
the public interest, and not wantonly or arbitrarily.
Whether there is a constitutional liberty to buy securities on one's
own judgment of value without governmental interposition to protect from bad bargains-will not be determined at the suit of parties
whose rights are involved only from the standpoint of sellers; but
Qwxre: Whether the state power does not extend to such guardianship over buyers.
The equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment leaves
the States at liberty to regulate those activities which they deem
conspicuous sources of existing evils, without embracing others
which, but for this distinction, would fall in the same class.
A state law designed to prevent fraud in the selling of securities, which
affects securities coming from other States only in requiring that
persons dealing in them within the State shall be first licensed, shall
file information concerning them and be subject in such dealing to
executive supervision, is not invalid as a direct burden on interstate
commerce.
Qucre: As to when and under what circumstances securities transported
into a State may be held to have lost their interstate character?
230 Fed. Rep. 233, reversed.

THESE cases were heard together in the District Court
and there disposed of in one opinion. They were argued
and submitted together here. The bills of complaint
attacked from different angles the so-called Blue Sky Law
of the State of Ohio, which provides:
"Sec. 6373-1. Except as otherwise provided in this
act, no dealer shall, within this state, dispose or offer to
dispose of any stock, stock certificates, bonds, debentures,
collateral trust certificates or other similar instruments
(all hereinafter termed 'securities') evidencing title to or
interest in property, issued or executed by any private or

quasi-public corporation, co-partnership or association

HALL v. GEIGER-JONES CO.
242 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

(except corporations not for profit,) or by any taxing subdivision of any other state, territory, province or foreign
government, without first being licensed so to do as hereinafter provided .
..
"Sec. 6373-2. .
The'term 'dealer,' as used in
this act, shall be deemed to include any person or company, except national banks, disposing, or offering to
dispose, of any such security, through agents or otherwise,
and any company engaged in the marketing or flotation of
its own securities either directly or through agents or
underwriters or any stock promotion scheme whatsoever,
except:
"(a) An owner, not the issuer of the security, who disposes of his own property, for his own account; when such
disposal is not made in the course of repeated and successive transactions of a similar character by such owner; or a
natural person, other than the underwriter of the security,
who is a bona fide owner of the security and disposes of his
own property for his own account;
"As used in this act, the term 'company' shall include
any corporation, co-partnership or association, incorporated or unincorporated, and whenever and wherever
organized;
The Geiger-Jones Company is an Ohio corporation,
licensed to do the business of buying and selling investment securities and of buying and selling the stocks and
bonds of industrial corporations. It has a regularly established clientage, it alleges, of about 11,000 persons residing
in the State of Ohio and other States and has sold and
there are now outstanding in the hands of persons to whom
it has sold securities of about twenty to twenty-five million
dollars, par value, and has stockholders in Ohio and other
States. That the securities above referred to consist of
securities of over twenty corporations of Ohio and other
States and foreign countries. That it is still selling such

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Statement of the Case.

242 U. S.

securities and is and has been engaged in intrastate, interstate and foreign commerce.
The appellee, Don C. Coultrap, in No. 439 repeats the
allegations made by Geiger-Jones Company, with enumeration of some of the companies in whose stocks and
securities that corporation is engaged in dealing, and
alleges that he is the owner and holder of its stocks and
of the stocks of other companies and is engaged in buying
and selling and offering to sell such stocks in the State of
Ohio and in the State of Pennsylvania, and in the course
of such transactions travels back and forth between those
States and conducts a correspondence from Pennsylvania
to Ohio and receives certificates evidencing the ownership
of stock from the State of Ohio and sends them from
Pennsylvania to Ohio.
William R. Rose, one of the appellees in No. 440, alleges
himself to be a citizen of Ohio and engaged in that State
in the business of buying and selling investment securities
and particularly the stocks and bonds of industrial corporations and that he has built up and maintained a large and
profitable business and an enviable reputation.
The RiChard Auto Manufacturing Company, the other
appellee, is a corporation of West Virginia but has its
principal place of business in Cleveland, Ohio, and has a
contract to manufacture and is ready to manufacture
automobiles under certain patents obtained by Francois
RiChard as soon as and not until the stock of the company
can be put upon the market and a sufficient amount realized therefrom for such purposes.
That on September 25, 1914, and prior thereto, Rose
was actively engaged in buying and selling stocks and
bonds of industrial corporations and investment securities
in general, and particularly the stock of the RiChard Auto
Manufacturing Company, of which company he was the
secretary, and for which business he had unusual
aptitude
and was -able to prosecute more successfully "than any

HALL v. GEIGER-JONES CO.
242 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

other man Whose services were available to said corporation."
That on September 25th he was arrested upon an affidavit filed by one H. R. Young, a subordinate and deputy
of the state superintendent of banks and banking for the
State of Ohio, under whose immediate direction and control he was then acting. Rose, upon being taken before a
magistrate, waived examination and was "bound over to
the grand jury" of Cuyahoga County, which jury subsequently returned an indictment against him for violation
of the law.
The grievance alleged in Nos. 438 and 439 is that urder
the laws of the State the Attorney General is threatening
to give an opinion to Hall, the superintendent of banks
and banking, that the law is valid and that it is the duty
of Hall to cancel appellees' license and that this will result
in irreparable injury to appellees and to their security
holders from the publicity they will obtain. And it is
apprehended that Hall will act on such advice, believing
that he is bound by the opinion of the Attorney General.
The statute is attached to the bills and is asserted to be
unconstitutional, invalid and void and the particulars are
enumerated to be that it will deprive appellees of their
property without due process of law, deny them the equal
protection of the laws, impose burdens on interstate commerce, confer executive powers, delegate such powers and
legislative powers in violation of the constitution of Ohio.
Appellees consider themselves remediless except in equity
and pray injunctions interlocutory and permanent.
The complaint of Rose and the Auto Company is that
Hall, superintendent of banks and banking, is actively
engaged in the prosecution of the proceedings against Rose
and has, together with the prosecuting attorney, interfered with, interrupted and completely prevented Rose
from carrying on his business in the State of Ohio and
especially in attempting upon his part to dispose of and

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Appellees.

242 U. S.

sell the stock of the Auto Company, and that the prosecuting attorney and the sheriff of Cuyahoga County, unless restrained, will assist and actively co6perate with
Hall, to the great and irreparable injury of both Rose and
the Auto Company.
The charge is amplified by details which it is unnecessary to give and the law is charged to be unconstitutional
in the same particulars as those etnumerated by the
Geiger-Jones Company.
Injunctions temporary and perpetual are prayed.
The District Court in the Geiger-Jones case considered
that it was without power to enjoin the Attorney General
but decided that it could and should under the charges of
the bill restrain Hall from further action under the law,
the restraint to continue until the hearing and determination of the applications of the respective complainants for
interlocutory injunctions.
The applications subsequently came to be heard before
three judges, and Hall and all of his employees and subordinates were enjoined from attempting to enforce the
provisions of the law. There was an exception in No. 440
as follows: "
except such proceedings as may
be deemed proper in any criminal action pending against
said complainants or either of them when the complaint
in this cause was filed." The injunctions in all the cases
were to continue until final decision or further order of the
court. The court declared the law to be obnoxious to all
of the charges made by the respective complainants
against it. 230 Fed. Rep. 233.
Mr. Edward C. Turner, Attorney General of the State
of Ohio, for appellants.
Mr. John A. Shauck and Mr. Timothy S. Hogan, with
whom Mr. A. M. McCarty, Mr. E. N. Huggins, Mr. M. B.
Johnson, Mr. H. H. Johnson and Mr. Francis R. Marvin
were on the briefs, for appellees:

HALL v. GEIGER-JONES CO.
242 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

Cases of the type of German Alliance Insurance Co. v.
Lewis, 233 U. S. 389, involving insurance and other kinds
of business upon which the public is peculiarly dependent
and which are not made up of ordinary commercial transactions, and cases like Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis Co.,
240 U. S. 342, involving methods of business which by
their very nature are harmful, have no application to a
law like this which assumes to regulate and forbid the
normal contracts of commerce.
The act is clearly void (1) because it permits the commissioner arbitrarily, by granting or refusing licenses, to
tolerate or destroy the right to carry on an ordinary calling
and to exercise a guaranteed right of contract, (2) because
it authorizes him to place forbidden restrictions and burdens on the conduct of business after a license has been
obtained, and (3) because of the provisions which invest
him with arbitrary power to revoke licenses.
Another vice which pervades the entire act is the requiremenit that before obtaining a license an applicant
shall consent to be sued in a particular county and file
an irrevocable authority with a state officer to accept service of process. This denies the equal protection of the
state laws which, as to other defendants, make a different
and more favorable provision as to both venue and
service.
There is no attempt to exercise legislative power in
prescribing the qualifications of the person who may be
entitled to receive a license to exercise dominion over his
own property or to engage in interstate commerce. Both
standards of qualification in a licensee and compliance
with them are left to the exclusive and arbitrary will of
the commissioner. Whether the act is condemned as a
forbidden attempt to delegate legislative power, as has
been done in some cases, or as an attempt to confer arbitrary power, as in others, it is in this respect violative of
all the guarantees which we invoke.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Appellees.

242 U. S.

The applicant for a license has no right to a hearing
upon his application, nor has the holder of a license a right
to be heard upon notice looking to its revocation.
The applicant must submit to the commissioner the
particulars of his business and business agencies. The
commissioner may make such further investigation as he
may deem necessary concerning good repute, and then, if he
be satisfied in that regard and the fees and expenses demanded are paid, the applicant may have a license to deal
in the securities, and not otherwise. Less flagrant legislation has been condemned in numerous cases, among
which are Harmon v. State, 66 Ohio St. 249; City of Richmond v. Dudley, 129 Indiana, 112; Bills v. City of Goshen,
117 Indiana, 221; Mayor v. Radecke, 49 Maryland, 217;
State v. Tenent, 110 N. Car. 609; Gambad v. Deering, 84
Wisconsin, 585; Cicero Lumber Co. v. Town of Cicero, 176
Illinois, 9; Noel v. People, 187 Illinois, 587; Yick Wo v.
Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356; Butchers' Union Co. v. Crescent
City Co., 111 U. S. 746; Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S.
578; Moskowitz v. Jenkins, 202 N. Y. 53.
The proclaimed virtue of the act is its vice. While in
form it conditions and, under circumstances which are
likely to arise, it prohibits sales, at the same time it necessarily prevents purchases, and thereby shields contemplating purchasers from the exercise of their own defective
judgments. For it is to be borne in mind that the terms
of the act operate upon honest sales as well as those which
are fraudulent. In all transactions within its purview it
places the citizens of the State under guardianship and
deprives them of dominion over their property which is
an essential element of its ownership. See Smith v. Burlingame, 4 Mason, 121.
The act is also objectionable for the very numerpus discriminations which deny the equal protection of the laws
under the Fourteenth -Amendment.
The prevention of fraud is within the power of the legis-

HALL v. GEIGER-JONES CO.
242 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

lature without interfering with the freedom of normal
commerce.
Bearing in mind the principles announced in Hannibal
& St. Joseph R. R. Co. v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465, and in
Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 275, it is plain that the act
contravenes the commerce clause. InternationalTextbook
Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91; Buck Stove & Range Co. v.
Vickers, 226 U. S. 205, 213-216; Lottery Case, 188 U. S.
321; Butler Bros. Shoe Co. v. U. S. Rubber Co., 156 Fed.
Rep. 1.
Nathan v. Louisiana, 8 How. 73, and Paul v. Virginia,
8 Wall. 168, are not opposed to this contention.
Transportation is by. no means the only element of
commerce. Lyng v. Michigan, 135 U. S. 161; Story on
the Constitution, § 1072. Commerce is intercourse and
traffic. When an order comes from another State to a
dealer in Ohio for stocks and bonds, the sale occurs at
his place of business, and this sale is one of the ingredients
of the transaction, which is interstate commerce. The
act regulates and conditions the right to effect such sale.
Thus it' appears that the very first element of interstate
commerce is prohibited unless permitted by the State.
Also, if the dealer is prohibited from selling, the result is
to prohibit him from importing securities for sale. The
act, therefore, forbids all traffic in articles of interstate
commerce so long as sales are to be effected in Ohio.
Buck Stove & Range Co. v. Vickers, supra.
The business being predominantly private and therefore
not subject to the police power of the State in any instance, the latter cannot afford a justification for this
interference with interstate commerce. Adams Express
Co. v. New York, 232 U. S. 314; Haskell v. Cowham, 109
C. C. A. 235; Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Kaw Valley
Drainage District, 233 U. S. 75.
The amendment of the constitution of Ohio is without
effect in this case,

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

Mr. George Cosson, Attorney General of the State of
Iowa, and Mr. Walter C. Owen, Attorney General of the
State of Wisconsin, by leavb of court, filed a brief as amici
curie on behalf of the National Association of Attorneys
General of the United States.
Mr. George W. Wickersham, Mr. Robert R. Reed and
Mr. Charles K. Allen, by leave of court, filed a brief as
amici curice Ion behalf of the Investment Bankers Association of America.
after stating the case as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA,

It will be observed that these cases bring here for judgment an asserted conflict between national power and
state power, and bring, besides, power of the State as
limited or forbidden by the National Constitution.
The assertion of such conflict and limitation is an everrecurring one; and yet it is approached as if it were a new
thing under the sun. The primary postulate of the State
is that the law under review is an exercise of the police
power of the State, and that power, we have said, is the
least limitable of the exercises of government. Sligh v.
Kirkwood, 237 U. S. 52. We get no accurate idea of its
limitations by opposing to it the declarations of the
Fourteenth Amendment that no person shall be deprived
of his life, liberty or property without due process of law or
denied the equal protection of the laws. Noble State Bank
v. Haskell, 219 U. S. 104, 110. A stricter inquiry is necessary, and we must consider what it is of life, liberty and
property that the Constitution protects.
What life is and what may or may not affect it, we have
quite accurate tests; and what liberty is in its outside
sense, and, in like sense, what property is. We know that
it is of the essence of liberty-indeed, we may say, of life-

that tbgre shall be freedom of conduct, and yet there may

HALL v. GEIGER-JONES CO.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be limitations upon such freedom. We know that in the
concept of property there are the rights of its acquisition,
disposition and enjoyment-in a word, dominion over it.
Yet all of these rights may be regulated. Such are the
declarations of the cases, become platitudes by frequent
repetition and many instances of application.
The question then is, Is the statute of Ohio within the
principles declared? The statute is a restraint upon the
disposition of certain property, and requires dealers in
securities evidencing title to or interest in such property
to obtain a license-a requirement simple enough in itself
and yet of itself asserted to be an illegal control of a private
business, made especially so by the conditions which are
imposed. These conditions, summarized, are as follows:
To obtain the license there must be filed with the
superintendent of banks and banking (termed in the act
"commissioner") application for such license, together
with information in such form as the commissioner shall
determine, setting forth:
"(a) The names and addresses of the directors and
officers if such applicant be a corporation or association
and of all partners if it be a partnership, and of the person
if the applicant be an individual, together with names
and addresses of all agents of such applicant assisting in
the disposal of such securities;
"(b) Location of the applicant's principal office and of
his principal office in the state, if any;
"(c) The general plan and character of the business of
said applicant, together with references which the 'commissioner' shall confirm by such investigation as he may
deem necessary, establishing the good repute in business of
such applicant, directors, officers, partners and agents.
"If the applicant be a corporation organized under the
laws of any other state, territory or government, or have
its principal place of business therein, it shall also file a
copy of its articles of incorporation, certified by the proper

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

officer of such state, territory or government, and of its
regulations and by-laws; and if it be an unincorporated
association, a certified copy of its articles of association, or
deed of settlement."
The applicant is also required to file a written instrument irrevocably consenting to be sued in a particular
county and, if personal service there cannot be had, consenting to service upon the sheriff of the county.
It is also provided that all of the applications shall be
published in a daily newspaper and if the commissioner be
satisfied that the applicant is of good business repute, he
shall, upon payment of certain fees, register the applicant
as a licensed dealer in securities. Pending disposition of the
application temporary permission to transact business may
be given. Yearly renewals of the licenses are provided for.
The commissioner may revoke a license upon ascertaining that the licensee: (a) is of bad business repute; (b) has
violated any provision of the act; or (c) has engaged, or is
about to engage, under favor of such license, in illegitimate
business or fraudulent transactions.
It will be observed, therefore, that the law is a regulation of business, constrairs conduct only to that end, the
purpose being to protect the public against the imposition
of unsubstantial schemes and the securities based upon
them. Whatever prohibition there is, is a means to the
same purpose, made necessary, it may be supposed, by
the persistence of evil and its insidious forms and the experience of the inadequacy of penalties or other repressive
measures. The name that is given to the law indicates the
evil at which it is aimed, that is" to use the language of a
cited case, "speculative schemes which have no more
basis than so many feet of 'blue sky"'; or, as stated by
counsel in another case, "to stop the sale of stock in fly-bynight concerns, visionary oil wells, distant gold mines and
other like fraudulent exploitations." Even if the de-

scriptions be regarded as rhetorical, the existence of evil is

HALL v. GEIGER-JONES CO.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

indicated, and a belief of its detriment; and we shall not
pause to do more than state that the prevention of deception is within the competency of government and that the
appreciation of the consequences of it is not open for our
review. The Trading Stamp Cases, 240 U. S. 342, 391.
Therefore, the purpose being legal, the question only remains whether the manner in which it is accomplished is
illegal. This is contended, and the provisions which render
the law void are found, it is stated, in: (1) Power conferred
upon the commissioner to grant or refuse licenses; (2) the
authority given the commissioner to place forbidden restrictions and burdens on the conduct of the business of
one who has obtained a license.
The basis of these contentions is that the law confers
arbitrary power upon the commissioner.- In considering
the contentions we must keep in mind that the law is
addressed to a complex situation. Its purpose is, as we
have seen, to give a basis for judgment of the securities
offered the purchasing public; assure credit where it is
deserved and confidence to investment and trading; prevent deception and save credulity and ignorance from
imposition, as far as this can be done by the approved
reputation of the seller of the securities and authoritative
information.
It may, however, be said that character establishes
itself and neither needs nor-can be compelled to accept the
stamp of government, and it is asserted that the "normal
investment business of the country" and its "individual
transactions" are not subject to "executive control," the
broad contention being made that as such business cannot
be prohibited it cannot be regulated. This, indeed, is the
basic principle of the opposition to the statute. It is expressed in many ways, and the various provisions of the
statute-those that are explicit in direction to the commissioner and those that commit discretion to him-are
said to so burden and complicate "normal business as to

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

make it difficult if not impossible to carry it on in a normal
way, if at all."
As broadly made, we. cannot assent to these propositions. The reason and extent of the law we have indicated
and the control to which individual transactions are subjected, and we think both are within the competency of
the State. It is to be remembered that the value of
securities consists in what they represent, and to determine such value is a complex problem even to the most
skillful and informed.
We have very lately decided a case upon the principle
of the power of the State to prevent frauds and impositions. Hutchinson Ice Cream Co. v. Iowa, ante, p. 153.
The principle applies as well to securities as to material
products, the provisions of the law necessarily varying
with the objects. As to material products the purpose
may be accomplished by a requirement of inherent purity.
The intangibility of securities, they being representatives
or purporting to be representatives of something else, of
property, it may be, in distant states and countries,
schemes of plausible pretensions, requires a difference of
provision and the integrity of the securities can only be
,assured by the probity of the dealers in them and the information which may be given of them. This assurance
the State has deemed necessary for its welfare to require;
and the requirement is not unreasonable or inappropriate.
It extends to the general market something of the safeguards that are given to trading upon the exchanges and
stock boards of the country, safeguards that experience
has adopted as advantageous. Inconvenience may be
caused and supervision and surveillance, but this must
yield to the public welfare; and against counsel's alarm of
consequences, we set the judgment of the State.
We turn back, therefore, to consider the more specific
objections to the law. The basis of them is, as we have
seen, the power conferred upon the commissioner, which is

HALL v. GEIGER-JONES CO.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

asserted to be arbitrary. The objection is somewhat
difficult to handle. It centers in the provision that requires the commissioner, as a condition of a license, to
"be satisfied of the good repute in business of such applicant and named agents," and in the power given him to
revoke the license or refuse to renew it upon ascertaining
that the licensee "is of bad business repute; has violated
any provision of this act or has engaged, or is about to
engage, under favor of such license, in illegitimate business or in fraudulent transactions." It is especially objected that as to these requirements no standard is given
to guide or determine the decision of the commissioner.
Therefore, it is contended that the discretion thus vested
in the commissioner leaves "room for the play and action
of purely personal and arbitrary power.
We are a little surprised that it should be implied that
there is anything recondite in a business reputation or its
existence as a fact which should require much investigation. If in special cases there may, be controversy, those
cases the statute takes care of; an adverse judgment by
the commissioner is reviewable by the courts. Section
6373-8. So also as to the other judgments.
Besides it is certainly apparent that if the conditions are
within the power of the State to impose, they can only be
ascertained by an executive officer. Reputation and
character are quite tangible attributes, but there can be
no legislative definition of them that can automatically
attach to or identify individuals possessing them, and
necessarily the aid of some executive agency must be
invoked. The contention of appellees would take from
government one of its most essential instrumentalities, of
which the various national and state commissions are
instances. But the contention may be answered by authority. In Gundling v. Chicago, 177 U. S. 183, an ordinance of the City of Chicago was passed on which required a license of dealers in cigarettes and as a condition

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

of the license that the applicant, if a single individual, all
of the members of the firm, if a co-partnership, and any
person or persons in charge of the business, if a corporation, should be of good character and reputation, and the
duty was delegated to the mayor of the city to determine
the existence of the conditions. The ordinance was sustained. To this case may be added Red "C" Oil Manufacturing Co.. v. North Carolina, 222 U. S. 380, 394, and
cases cited; Mutual Film Corporation v. Industrial Commission of Ohio, 236 U. S. 230; Brazee v. Michigan, 241
U. S. 340, 341. See also Reetz v. Michigan, 188 U. S.505;
Lieberman v. Van De Carr, 199 U. S. 552.
The discretion of. the commissioner is qualified by his
duty, and besides, as we have seen, the statute gives
judicial review of his action. Pending such review we
must accord to the commissioner a proper sense of duty
and the presumption that the functions entrusted to him
will be executed in ihe public interest, not wantonly or
arbitrarily to deny a license to or take one away from a
reputable dealer (Plymouth Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania, 232
U. S. 531, 545); and, as we have said, in cases where there
can be a dispute of fact, the statute provides for judicial
review, and we see no legal objection to the designation of
a particular court for such review.
We are not disposed to give serious attention to the
contention that while the statute in form prohibits sales
"it at the same time necessarily prevents purchases, and
thereby shields contemplating purchasers from loss of
property by the exercise of their own defective judgment," and puts them as well as the sellers under guardianship. If we may suppose that such purchasers would
assert a liberty to form a "defective judgment" and
resent means of information as a limitation of their freedom, we must wait until they themselves appear to do so.
Besides, there are examples in legislation of unsolicited
protection, and there is much in the business we are con-

HALL v. GEIGER-JONES CO.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sidering which urges to an imitation of the examples. It
is not wise to put out of view the tendencies of the business and that it tempts to and facilitates speculative
judgments, if the purpose be trading, improvident judgments, if the purpose be investment. Whatever detriment
may come from such judgments the law may be powerless
to prevent; but against counterfeits of value the law can
give protection, and such is the purpose of the statute
under review. It must be judged of upon that consideration, not upon the assertion of an absolute liberty of
conduct which does not exist.
Discriminations are asserted against the statute which
extend, it is contended, to denying appellees the equal
protection of the laws. Counsel enumerates them as follows:
"Prominent among such discriminations are between
the cases where more or less than fifty per cent. of an issue
of bonds is included in the sale to one person; between
securities which have and which have not been authorized by the public service commission of this state; between the securities issued by a bank, trust company, a
building and loan association organized under the laws
of this state and those which are not; between an owner
who sells his securities in a single transaction and one who
disposes of them in successive transactions; between a
bank or trust company who sells at a commission of not
more than two per cent. and one which sells at a higher
commission; against securities when any part of the proceeds to be derived from the sale are to be applied in payment for patents, services, good will or for property not
located in this state; in providing for such delays in the
issuance of a license and in the subsequent conduct, of
business thereunder as to substantially hinder, and in
many cases naturally arising, to utterly prevent sales; in
discriminating between securities which have and which
have not been published in regular market reports; be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

tween sales where in a single transaction the sale is for
five thousand dollars or more; in discriminations against
securities -issued by taxing subdivisions of other states;
between securities upon which there has and has not been
a default as to principal or interest; against securities
which have not from time to time for six months been
published in the regular market reports or the news
columns of a daily newspaper of general circulation in the
state; where the securities are or are not of manufacturing
or transportation companies in the hands of bonafide purchasers prior to March 1st, 1914, where such companies
were, on that date and shall be at the time of the proposed
sale, going concerns; between cases where the information
contemplated is or is not contained in a standard manual
of information approved by the commissioner; where the
disposal is or is not made for a commission of less than one
per cent. of the par value thereof by a licensee who is a

member of a regularly organized and recognized stock
exchange and who has an established and lawfully conducted business in this state regularly open for public
patronage as such; between cases in which the vendor
proposes to sell securities for-which he has and those for
which he has not paid ninety per cent. of the price at
which they are to be sold by him; where the securities are
or are not those of a common carrier or of a company
organized under the laws of' this state and engaged principally in the business of manufacturing, transportation,
etc., and the whole or a part of the property upon which
such securities are predicated are located within this
state."
We cannot give separate attention to the asserted discriminations. It is enough to say that they axe within the
power of classification which a State has. A State "may
direct its law against what it deems the evil as it actually
exists without covering the whole field of possible abuses,
and it may do so none the less that the forbidden act does

HALL v. GEIGER-JONES CO.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

not differ in kind from those that are allowed.
If a class is deemed to present a conspicuous example of
what the legislature seeks to prevent, the Fourteenth
Amendment allows it to be dealt with although otherwise
and merely logically not distinguishable from others not
embraced in the law." Central Lumber Co. v. South
Dakota, 226 U. S. 157, 160. The cases were cited from
which those propositions were deduced. To the same
effect is Armour & Company v. North Dakota, 240 U. S.
510, 517.
The next contention of appellees is that the law under
review is a burden on interstate commerce, and therefore
contravenes the commerce clause of the Constitution of
the United States. There is no doubt of the supremacy of
the national power over interstate commerce. Its inaction, it is true, may imply prohibition of state legislation
but it may imply permission of such legislation. In other
words, the burden of the legislation, if it be a burden, may
be indirect and valid in the absence of the assertion of the
national power. So much is a truism; there can only be
controversy about its application. The language of the
statute is: "Except as otherwise provided in this act, no
dealer shall, within this state, dispose" of certain securities
"issued or executed by any private or quasi-public corporation, co-partnership or association (except corporations
not for profit)

.

.

.

without first being licensed so to

do as hereinafter provided."
The provisions of the law, it will be observed, apply to
dispositions of securities within the State and while information of those issued in other States and foreign
countries is required to be filed (§§ 6373-9), they are only
affected by the requirement of a license of one who deals
in them within the State. Upon their transportation into
the State there is no impediment-no regulation of them
or interference with them after they get there. There is
the exaction only that he who disposes of them there shall

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

be licensed to do so and this only that they may not appear
in false character and impose an appearance of a value
which they may not possess-and this certainly is only an
indirect burden upon them as objects of interstate commerce, if they may be regarded as such. 'It is a police
regulation strictly, not affecting them until there is an
attempt to make disposition of them within the State. To
give them more immunity than this is to give them more
immunity than more tangible articles are given, they
having no exemption from regulations the purpose of
which is to prevent fraud or deception. Such regulations
affect interstate commerce in them only incidentally.
Hatch v. Reardon, 204 U. S. 152; Ware & Leland v. Mobile
County, 209 U. S. 405; Engel v. O'Malley, 219 U. S. 128;
Brodnax v. Missouri, id. 285; Banker Brothers Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 222 U. S. 210; Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S.
501; Standard Stock Food Co. v. Wright, id. 540; Trading
Stamp Cases, supra. With these, cases InternationalTextbook Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91; Buck Stove & Range Co. v.
Vickers, 226 U. S. 205, and the Lottery Case, 188 U. S. 321,
are not in discordance.
We might, indeed, ask, When do the designated securities cease migration in interstate commerce and settle to
the jurisdiction of the State? Material things, choses in
possession, pass out of interstate commerce when they
emerge from the original package. Do choses in action
have a longer immunity? It is to be remembered that
though they may differ in manner of transfer, they are
in the same form in the hands of the purchaser as they are
in the hands of the seller, and in the hands of both as they
are brought into the State. We ask again, Do they never
pass out of interstate commerce? Have they always the
freedom of the State? Is there no point of time at which
the State can expose the evil that they may mask? Is
anything more necessary for the supremacy of the national
power than that they be kept free when in actual trans-

CALDWELL v. SIOUX FALLS STOCK YARDS CO.
242 U. S.

559

Syllabus.

portation, subjected to the jurisdiction of the State only
when they are attempted to be sold to the individual
purchaser? The questions are pertinent, the answer to
them one way or the other, of consequence; but we may
pass them, for regarding the securities as still in interstate commerce after their transportation to the State
is ended and they have reached the hands of dealers in
them, their interstate character is only incidentally affected by the statute.
Decree reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS dissents.

CALDWELL, AS ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR THE
STATE OF SOUTH DAKOTA AND EX OFFICIO
MEMBER OF THE STATE SECURITIES COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF SOUTH DAKOTA,
ET AL. v. SIOUX FALLS STOCK YARDS COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH DAKOTA.
No. 386.

Argued October 16, 17, 1916.-Decided January 22, 1917.

The South Dakota "Blue Sky Law," Laws of 1915, c. 275, is the sange
in principle as the laws of Ohio and Michigan involved in Hall v.
Geiger-Jones Co., ante, 539, and Merrick v. Halsey & Co., post, 568,
and is sustained over constitutional objections, for the reasons assigned in those cases, as applied to a Colorado corporation seeking
to raise capital by sales of its own shares, and to individuals dealing in such shares.
When a statute regulating complainant's business is alleged to be un-

