EX PARTE INDIANA TRANSPORTATION CO. 281
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

EX PARTE INDIANA TRANSPORTATION
COMPANY, PETITIONER.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF PROHIBITION.

No. 25, Original. Motion for permission to intervene and to make return
to rule to show cause. Submitted December 4, 1916.-Decided December 18, 1916.
In a proceeding in prohibition, wherein a District Judge had been
ruled to show cause why the execution of an order should not be
restrained for want of jurisdiction, a request was made on the return
day, by the persons interested in upholding the order, that a return
tendered by them be accepted as the return to the rule and that
they be treated as the respondents. Held, that the judge is the
essential party respondent and the request must therefore be denied.
No return having been made by the respondent on the return day,
the time for his return is, under the circumstances, extended.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Harry W. Standidge on behalf of the moving
parties.
Memorandum opinion by MR.
by direction of the court.

CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE,

Speaking in a general sense, on the ground that in an
admiralty cause pending in the District Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Illinois, one
of the judges of that court had, by an order which he was
absolutely devoid of jurisdiction to make, permitted more
than 270 persons to become co-libelants, an application
by the defendant in the cause was made on the sixteenth
day of October, 1916, for leave to file a petition for prohibition directed to the judge in question, to prevent the
carrying out of the order. On the twenty-third of October

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

permission to file the petition for prohibition was granted
and a rule to show cause was directed to be issued to the
Honorable Kenesaw M. Landis, the judge by whom the
order complained of was made. On the day upon which
this rule was returnable, December 4, there was no response to the rule made on behalf of the respondent judge,
but by oral motion a request was made on behalf of the
parties who it was asserted had been mistakenly permitted
to become co-libelants, that they be treated as the respondents to the rule and be permitted in that capacity
to file a return to the rule, a copy of which return was
prepared to be filed and presented for filing in case the
permission asked was granted, and that request is the
matter now before us for consideration.
We are of opinion, however, that the substitution of
respondents asked for cannot be granted, since it is apparent that the judge who rendered the order and against
whom the writ prayed for, if allowed, is to be directed, is
the essential party respondent, however much when his
return to the rule is made either by his authority or because of their interest in the result or as friends of the
court, the persons to be adversely affected by the granting
of the relief prayed may be heard to sustain the sufficiency
of the return when that subject arises for consideration.
We therefore transfer the date fixed for the return in the
original rule to show cause from the fourth day of December, 1916, to the fifteenth day of January, 1917, in
order to afford ample opportunity for the making by the
respondent judge of the return which the original order
calls for.
And it is so ordered.

