ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY v. WELSH.
242 U. S..

303

Opinion of the Court.

upon the ground that more cars were not delivered to it
under a rule which was unreasonable, because unduly discriminatory in its favor. Consistently with the act this
cannot be done.
Judgment reversed.

ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY v. WELSH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 29.

Argued October 25, 1916.-Decided December 18, 1916.

That a case may be within the Federal Employers' Liability Act
(c. 149, 35 Stat. 65), it is essential that the person injured be employed at the'time of injury in some task of interstate commerce;
mere expectation of such employment is not enough. So held where
the employee, subject to be employed in either interstate or intrastate conunerce as directed by a superior, was injured while in quest
of orders, and, but for the injury, would have received orders requiring him immediately to make up an interstate train.
In cases brought here under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, the
rule obtains that, in the absence of manifest error, this court will
not disturb concurrent findings of state trial and appellate courts
that the evidence of employment in interstate commerce was, insufficient to go to the jury.
89 Ohio St. 81, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Leroy A. Manchester, with whom Mr. C. D. Hine,
Mr. James B. Kennedy and Mr. John W. Ford were on

the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. William R. Stewart for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The Supreme Court of Ohio (89 Ohio St. 81) affirmed a
circuit court judgment which sustained a judgment re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

covered in a court of common pleas by Welsh against the
Erie Railroad Company for damages on account of personal injuries suffered by him while in its employ as a yard
conductor in the Brier Hill yard, near Youngstown, Ohio;
overruling the contention of the defendant (now plaintiff
in error) that by certain rulings of the trial court defendant
had been deprived of rights secured to it by the Federal Employers' Liability Act of April 22, 1908, c. 149, 35 Stat. 65.
Plaintiff's case was that on March 7, 1911, about 11
o'clock p. m., while in the performance of his duties, 'he
attempted to alight from the footboard of a slowly moving
locomotive; that in so doing he stepped upon a pulley
wheel of an interlocking mechanism situate between the
tracks and then covered with snow, and the turning of
the wheel -under his weight caused his foot to become entangled in the interlocking wires, as a result of which he
fell partly under the locomotive and sustained serious
injuries. The negligence attributed to defendant was the
failure properly to guard or cover the wires and the pulley
wheel. There was evidence tending to show such a knowledge on plaintiff's part of the nature and character of the
interlocking apparatus and its location between the tracks,
and such a knowledge and appreciation of the dangers
incident thereto, as to bring into play the defense of
assumption of risk (Seaboard Air Line Ry. v. Horton, 233
U. S. 492, 503; Jacobs v. Southern Railway Co., 241 U. S.
229, 234), if the case came within the federal act; and this
depended upon whether plaintiff was employed by defendant in interstate commerce at the time he received
his injuries. Defendant's Fourth Request was for the
submission to the jury of the question whether plaintiff
was employed in such commerce, with an appropriate instruction embodying the rule as to assumption of risk in
case they should find him to have been so employed. This
request, which in terms invoked the protection of the act
of Congress, was refused, and the trial court, in the in-

ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY v. WELSH.
242 U. S.

305

Opinion of the Court.

structions given, declined to follow that act or the common
law, and on the contrary instructed the jury that under a
state statute held to be applicable the assumption of risk
was not a defense.
The rulings of the trial court were sustained by the
Supreme Court (and presumably by the Circuit .Court)
upon the ground that, upon the undisputed ,evidence,
plaintiff was not at the time employed in interstate commerce. As to this question, there was testimony tending
to show that defendant was a common carrier by rail
engaged in commerce between the States, and that plaintiff was and for some time had been a yard conductor
engaged in night duty at its Brier Hill yard, a mile or
more west of Youngstown; that he performed iniscellaneous services in the way of shifting cars and breaking
up and making up trains, under orders of the yardmaster,
and had to apply frequently to the latter for such orders;
that when any orders thus given had been performed, or
had "run out," he usually reported at the yardmaster's
office for further orders; that on the night in question
plaintiff, with a yard crew, took a freight car loaded with
merchandise destined to a point without the State, and
a caboose which so far as appears was not to go beyond
the limits of the State, from the Brier Hill yard eastwardly
to the "F. D. yard" in Youngstown, where the freight
car was placed upon a siding, so that it might be made up
into a train by another crew; that they then took the caboose a short distance farther and placed it upon another
siding; that they next took the engine to a water plug
and took on water, and then returned with it to the Brier
Hill yard; that on this return journey the engine was
slowed down near the yardmaster's office, which is at the
easterly end of that yard, so as to enable Welsh to report
for further orders, all previous orders having been executed; and that the injury was received while he was
attempting to alight for that purpose.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

It was in evidence, also, that the orders plaintiff would
have received, had he not been injured on his way to the
yardmaster's office, would have required him immediately
to make up an interstate train. Upon the strength of
this it is argued that his act at the moment of his injury
partook of the nature of the work that, but for the accidental interruption, he would have been called upon to
perform. In our opinion, this view is untenable. By the
terms of the Employers' Liability Act the true test is the
nature of the work being done at the time of the injury,
and the mere expectation that plaintiff would presently
be called upon to perform a task in interstate commerce
is not sufficient to bring the case within the act. Illinois
Central R. R. Co. v. Behrens, 233 U. S. 473, 478.
There remains the contention that plaintiff's act in
stepping from the yard engine was in completion of his
trip to the "F. D. yard" with the interstate car, and hence
was itself an act in furtherance of interstate commerce.
This cannot be answered by saying, in the words used
arguendo by the state Supreme Court (89 Ohio St. 88),
that "he was not then and there employed in moving or
handling cars engaged in interstate commerce." The
question remains whether he was performing an act so
directly and immediately connected with his previous act
of placing the interstate car in the "F. D. yard" as to be
a part of it or a necessary incident thereto. New York
Central & Hudson River R. R. Co. v. Carr, 238 U. S. 260,
264; Shanks v. Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R.
Co., 239 U. S. 556, 559. And this depends upon whether
the series of acts that he had last peformed was properly
to be regarded as a succession of separate tasks or as a
single and indivisible task. It turns upon no interpretation of the act of Congress, but involves simply an appreciation of the testimony and admissible inferences therefrom in order to determine whether there was a question
to be submitted to the jury as to the fact of employment

WILLIAMS v. COBB.
242 U. S.

Syllabus.

in interstate commerce. The state courts held there was
no such question, and we cannot say that in so concluding
they committed manifest error. It results that in the.
proper exercise of the jurisdiction of this court in cases
of this character, the decision ought not to be disturbed.
Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Knapp, 240 U. S. 464, 466.
Judgment atfirmed.

WILLIAMS, AS RECEIVER OF THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF MINERAL POINT, WISCONSIN, v. COBB.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND

No. 125.

CIROUIT.

Submitted November 17, 1916.-Decided December 18, 1916.

Defendant and another, executors, seeking in good faith to follow a
testamentary diiection to invest a sum in "interest bearing securities," on certain trusts, caused to be transferred to themselves as
trustees certain National Bank shares belonging to the estate.
Thereafter, their final account as executors, explaining this transaction and reporting the estate wlolly distributed except for these
shares, was approved by the proper court of Wisconsin. The bank
afterwards becoming insolvent, suit was brought by the receiver to
recover the amount of an assessment levied upon the shares by the
Comptroller of the Currency, the bill seeking to hold the defendant,
(who had received a larger amount as legatee), under a Wisconsin
law making distributees liable for debts of estates in certain cases.
Held, (1) That whether or not the shares were "interest bearing securities,", the transfer'was not void.
(2) Title being in the trustees, the estate was not liable for the assessment, and consequently defendant could not be held as a distributee
under the Wisconsin statute.
At common law executors have implied authority to pass title to
personal assets of the estate-a rule which has not been modified
in Wisconsin.

