OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

242 U. S.

going opinion and action, proceeded to issue a preliminary
injunction as prayed in the bill. 216 Fed. Rep. 413.
An appeal was taken to this court in 1914. In 1915 the
Act of 1913 was repealed, and the substituted act does not
apply to the plaintiff. Supplemental Supplement to the
Code of Iowa, 1915, c. 19-B, § 2600-sl. All possibility or
threat of the operation has disappeared now, if not before,
by the act of the State. Therefore upon the precedents we
are not called upon to consider the propriety of the action
of the District Court, but the proper course is to reverse
the decree and remand the cause with directions that the
bill be dismissed without costs to either party. United
States v. Hamburg-AmerikanischePacketfahrt-ActienGesellschaft, 239 U. S. 466, 475, 478; Jones v. Montague, 194
U. S. 147, 153; Dinsmore v. Southern Express Co., 183
U. S. 115, 120; Mills v. Green, 159 U. S. 651, 658.
Decree reversed. Bill to be dismissed without costs to
either party.

CAMINETTI v. UNITED STATES.
DIGGS v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

HAYS v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COUItT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 139, 163, 464. Argued November 13, 14,1916.-Decided January 15,
1917.

The White Slave Traffic Act of June 25, 1910, c. 395, 36 Stat. 825,
applies to any case in which a woman is transported in interstate
commerce for the purpose of prostitution or concubinage; pecuniary

CAMINETTI v. UNITED STATES.
242 U. S.

Syllabus.

gain, either as a motive for the transportation or as aii attendant of
its object, is not an element in the offenses defined.
As so read the act is constitutional.
When the language of a statute is plain and does not lead to absurd or
impracticable results, there is no occasion or excuse for judicial
construction; the language must then be accepted by the courts as
the sole evidence of the ultimate legislative intent, and the courts
have no function but to apply and enforce the statute accordingly.
Statutory words are presumed, unless the contrary appears, to be used
in their ordinary sense, with the meaning commonly attributed to
them.
When an act provides that it shall be known and referred to by a
designated name, the name can not be made the means of overriding
the plain meaning of its other provisions.
The reports of congressional committees may be resorted to by the
courts when the legislation to which they relate is doubtful and requires interpretation.
The meaning which this court had attributed to the words "any other
immoral purpose" as used in the act concerning the importation of
alien women, Act of February 20, 1907, c. 1134, 34 Stat. 898, 899,
Congress must be presumed to have known when it employed the
same words in a similar association in the White Slave Traffic Act.
The 1Oower of Congress under the commerce clause, including as it does
authority to regulate the interstate transportation of passengers and
to keep the channels of interstate commerce free from immoral and
injurious uses, enables it to forbid the interstate transportation of
women and girls for the immoral purposes of which the petitioners
were convicted in these cases.
When an accused person voluntarily testifies in his.own behalf and
omits to deny or explain incriminating circumstances and events
already in evidence in which he participated and concerning which
he is fully informed, his silence subjects him to the inferences naturally to be drawn from it, and an instruction to that effect does not
violate his rights under the Fifth Amendment or the Act of March 16,
1878, c. 37, 20 Stat. 30.
While it is the better practice in criminal cases for courts' to caution
juries against .too much reliance on the testimony of accomplices and
against believing such testimony without corroboration, mere failure
to give such an instruction is not reversible error.
220 Fed. Rep. 545; 231 Fed. Rep. 106, affirmed.
THE

cases are stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Petitioner in No. 163.

242 U. S.

Mr. Joseph W. Bailey, with whom Mr. Marshall B.
Woodworth and Mr. Robert T. Devlin were on the brief, for
petitioner in No. 163:
It was error to charge the jury that they might draw
inferences against the defendant Diggs, from his failure
to deny or explain incriminating acts in evidence. Constitution, Article V; Act of March 15, 1878, c. 37, 20 Stat.
30; Balliet v. United States, 129 Fed. Rep. 689, 696; Myrick v. United States and Cunningham v. United States,
219 Fed. Rep. 1; Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616. In
the United States courts and in the courts of some of the
States, independently of statute, and especially in California, the right of cross-examination is restricted to matters
inquired of in chief. Where a defendant does not go into a
subject, but leaves it as the prosecution left it, the case as
made against him derives no support from his silence. The
fact, therefore, that defendant went upon the stand in this
case did not justify the instructions complained of.
The practical effect was erroneously to contradict the
presumption of innocence and shift the burden of proof.
The evidence authorized the jury to conclude that the
women wer-e accomplices. Cyc., vol. 12, pp. 447, 448, and
cases cited; People v. Coffey, 161 California, 433, 447;
United States v. Holte, 236 U. S. 140. It was the duty of
the trial court to submit that question and to caution the
jury. Cyc., vol. 12, p. 453; Crawford v. United States, 212
U. S. 183, 204, and numerous other cases. A refusal so to
instruct is ground for reversal. Solander v. People, 2
Colorado, 48; Cheatham v. State, 67 Mississippi, 335;
People v. Sternberg, 111 California, 11; People v. Strybe,
36 Pac. Rep. 3; Pe9 ple v. Bonney, 98 California, 278;
Penal Code of California, § 1111; Martin v. State, 36 S. W.
Rep. 587; Cyc., vol. 12, pp. 458, 459, and cases cited.
Th6 issue should have been confined to the specific
allegation of purpose, viz., that the woman was to become
the defendant's concubine or mistress, which controls the

CAMINETTI v. UNITED STATES.
242 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner in No. 163.

general terms "debauchery" and "other immoral purposes," in the indictment. For the meaning of "debauchery" see State v. Reeves, 97 Missouri, 668; Suslak v. United
States, 213 Fed. Rep. 913, 917; Athanasaw v. United
States, 227 U. S. 326. It is unnecessary for us to particularize the many indecent practices that come under the
head of "debauchery" and "other immoral practices."
It was for the purpose of reaching these that the act
was passed:
See: "The Battle with the Slums," pp. 69-75, by
Jacob A. Riis, N. Y., The Macmillan Company, 1902.
The case should be reversed for introduction of improper
evidence and misconduct of counsel at the trial.
The trial court erred in compelling the defendant on
cross-examination to go beyond his direct examination.
The White Slave Traffic Act is unconstitutional if
extended to cases where no element of profit exists.
New York v. Miln, 11 Pet. 102; License Cases, 5 How. 599;
Bowman v. Chicago &c. R. Co., 125 U. S. 489; Lemon v.
People, 26 Barbour (N. Y.), 270, affirmed in 20 N. Y. 562;
Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 275; Hall v. DeCuir, 95 U. S.
485; Weber v. Virginia, 103 U. S. 344; Passenger Cases, 7
How. 283; King v. American TransportationCo., 14 Fed.
Cases, 512; Boyse v. Anderson, 2 Pet. 150. All cases heretofore upholding the law have involved actual traffic in
women for gain. This traffic, as the court knows judicially,
became so menacing that a conference of nations was
convened at Paris, July 25, 1902, to concert measures of
suppression. The resulting agreement was proclaimed by
the President June 18, 1908, 35 Stat. pt. 2, 1979-1984.
This the act of Congress was intended to effectuate. The
nature of the white slave traffic and the meanings of the
term are generally and judicially known. See New Standard Dictionary; United States v. Hoke, 187 Fed. Rep. 992,
1002. The court should take cognizance of the evil aimed
at by the act. The Paris agreement, the proclamation, the

474

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Petitioner in No. 139.

242 U. S.

act itself in the title and §§ 6 and 8, and the cQmmittee's
report all demonstrate that commercial traffic alone was
in view. Commerce in the Constitution implies traffic
and gain. Congress'cannot regulate morals and thus
usurp the state police power by forbidding the mere
passage or transportation of-passengers.
The following is a condensation of Mr. Bailey's petition
for rehearing in the Caminetti Case.
The White Slave Traffic Act does not apply to the uncontested facts of this case. The question here is whether
the purpose of Caminetti, being free from every element of coercion and commercialism, is within the prohibition of the statute. It is a question of classification,
rather than of words. An act might be clearly within
the language of a statute directed against voluntary vice,
and yet that identical act would not be within precisely the same words in a statute directed against involuntary vice. Before we can decide whether a particular
act is within the words of a statute, we must first decide
whether the class of acts to which the particular act belongs is within the purpose of the statute. This principle
of construction was sanctioned by this court in Holy
Trinity Church v. United States, 143 U. S. 457, and the
rule there announced has been received by the bench and
bar as the law of the land for more than twenty years.
In that case the court held that although the contract of
employment was within the letter of the law, emphasized
by particular expression, as well as by certain exceptions,
Congress intended only to legislate against the importation of manual laborers under contract, and intellectual
laborers were not within the statute. Here we say that
Congress intended to legislate only against commercialized vice, and no conduct, however immoral, which is
free from. coercion and commercialism, is within the
statute.

CAMINETTI v. UNITED STATES.
242 U. S.

Argument. for Petitioner in No. 13P.

How did this court reach the conclusion that the Contract Labor Law includes only those who work with their
hands, and not those who work with their brain? It did
so by. taking into account the title of the act, the evils
which it was sought to remedy, the circumstances surrounding the appeal to Congress, and the report of the
committee recommending its enactmet. If it was proper
to consider such matters in ascertaining the scope of a law
which enforces its prohibitions by moderate fines, certainly the same course is even more proper with respect to
a law which makes the citizen who violates it a felon; and
as this court consulted the committee report in construing
the Contract Labor Law, a fortiori it ought to adopt the
same method in construing the White Slave Traffic Act,
which, as it has been construed in this case, is the most
drastic criminal law ever enacted by the American Congress. If there be any difference, the language was
plainer in that case than in this. As there are no exceptions to accentuate the inclusion of all classes not specially
excepted, we are justified In thinking that, even more
than in the other case, the court ought to consider the
report of the committee which prepared the White Slave
Traffic Act.
The rule for construing statutes as announced in the
Holy Trinity Church Case was not modified by the decision
in United States v. Bitty, 208 U. S. 391. There was a
difference in the facts of the two cases, and not any difference in the logic of the court. in the first case the court
held that the contract was not within the statute, because,
.although within the letter of it, it was not within the
purpose of it; and in the second case the court held that
the offense was within the statute, because it was within
both the letter and the purpose of it.
The court did not, in United States v. Bitty, consider the
report of a congressional committee, for the very sufficient reason that there was no report from which the court

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Petitioner in No. 139.

242 U. S.

could have extracted the real meaning of the later law.
If this court gathered the intention of Congress from the
words of the statute in the Bitty case, it nevertheless
sought the meaning of those words in the history of that
statute. Mr. Justice Harlan devoted the first part of his
opinion to a review of the- legislation, which began with
the Act of March 3, 1875-that being the first law which
prohibited the importation of alien prostitutes-was followed by the Act of March 3, 1903, which still further enlarged the prohibitions, and culminated in the Act of
February 20, 1907, where the words "or for any other
immoral purpose" first appear. Those previous acts were
reproduced in order to show by the successive changes in
the law the purpose which Congress had in mind. I cannot perceive any difference in principle between investigating the histpry of a law and examining the report of a
committee for the purpose of ascertaining whether Congress intended that the statute should include a certain
class of persons or offenses.
Section 1 must be read in connection with § 8. Congress had some purpose in giving the statute a name, and
the only imaginable purpose was to indicate the character
of offenses which it was intended to punish. We must,
therefore, so read the entire act as to give effect to that
purpose, or we must find some other purpose which we
can reasonably ascribe to Congress. If we are not able to
discover any other purpose-and I cannot imagine any
other-then it follows necessarily that the language of
§ 1 is limited by § 8 to cases within "the designation or
description" of the latter. Certainly we cannot suppose
that Congress, even though its only purpose was to give
a name to this act, intended it to include offenses which
the name clearly excludes. If Congress intended to include
in this act cases of naked immorality, without any element
of commerce or coercion, then to call it the "White Slave
Traffic Act" was a misnomer; and we can hardly assume

CAMINETTI v. UNITED STATES.
242 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner in No. 139.

that Congress would take the trouble of formally bestowing a name upon a statute and then misname it.
But while § 8, if regarded only as giving a name to the
statute, must confine the language of § 1 to cases within
the "designation or description" of the name thus given,
I think it does more than merely christen the law. Its
form and its phraseology combine to denote an office more
important than that, and its incorporation in the statute
was such an extraordinary legislative procedure that we
must attach a more than ordinary significance to it.
When Congress said "that this Act shall be known and referred to as the 'White Slave Traffic Act,"' it meant, if it
meant anything, that it should be understood and construed as an act for the suppression of the white slave
trade. But we must understand the true import of those
words before we Can classify cases as within or without
them. We cannot, of course, expect to find their definition in the older dictionaries, for the vicious practices
which have introduced them into our language are of
recent origin; but we do find, in a modern dictionary of
accepted authority, definitions of a "white slave" and of
"white slavery," in both of which the sale of young and
innocent girls for immoral purposes is an essential element.
Congress has not, however, used those words in a sense
which restricts them to young girls; but it has used them
in a sense which makes gain or restraint a necessary part
of their definition, and that is made manifest by the report
of the committee which prepared the bill and recommended its passage. This definition is authoritative, and
controls the act.
Such is the view expressed by the Attorney General of
the United States in an official communication to one of
his subordinates; and by Mr. Justice Lamar in United
States v. Holte, 236 U. S.140, 146, in his dissenting opinion.
We have a right to say that the meaning of the statute is,
to say the least, so doubtful that this court ought to em-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Petiti6ner in No. 139.

242 U. S.

ploy every known and approved method of ascertaining
exactly what it means.
We are clearly within the rule which permits, and even
requires, the court to take into consideration the results
which must ensue, if that question be decided one way
rather than the other. To hold that the act includes mere
escapades transforms into a felony what all of the States
have regarded as a misdemeanor for many years, and
renders men infamous for conduct which, at its worst,
might be no more than a transgression of the moral law.
Our humanity revolts at the thought of punishing a moral
lapse as a felony, and no law which does so can be properly
enforced. The punishments provided in this statute when
applied to cases of fornication or adultery may not be
deemed cruel and unusual within the 8th Amendment, but
they are so nearly such in fact as to engage the benevolence
of judges, peace officers, and juries .against its strict enforcement. It has long been a maxim with us that in order
to insure the due enforcement of any statute its penalties
must bear some fair relation to the offenses which it seeks
to prevent, and we must assume that our federal lawmakers understood it.
We cannot suppose that those who drafted this law, or
that those who enacted it upon a full consideration, could
not foresee its consequences, and we must, therefore, suppose that the Congress of the United States knew that it
was arming blackmailers, both male and female, with
such an effective instrument as this act furnishes them, if
construed to embrace mere escapades. It is a part of the
history of our time that the Department of Justice is even
now covering this Republic with a dragnet in an effort to
apprehend those who have been preying upon the weaknesses and vices of men and women.
If the act must be construed to inplude cases of mere
immorality, free from all element of commerce or coercion,
then Congress had no constitutional power to enact it.

CAMINETTI v. UNITED STATES.
242 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner in No. 139.

In each of the decisions which have heretofore sustained
the constitutionality of the act, some element of commerce
or coercion was involved. Much as we may abhor the
idea that women are bought and sold, or transported from
State to State for the purpose of hiring or exploiting them
for, immoral purposes, such a traffic is as much interstate
commerce as the shipment of horses or cattle. In those
cases the women were .actually the subject of interstate
commerce, and those who transported them were therefore within the regulatory power of Congress; but in this
case the woman accompanied'the man without any such
purpose on his part, and she was not, therefore, the
subject of interstate commerce. She was undoubtedly
engaged in interstate commerce, and Congress could
regulate her conduct so far as it related to or affected interstate commerce; but as she was not the subject of interstate commerce, Congress had no jurisdiction over any
person simply because she traveled from California to
Nevada. I do not forget that this court has said that
persons may be the subject of interstate commerce, but
that expression was used in declaring the power of Congress to regulate common carriers in the transportation
of persons, or in declaring the power of Congress to
regulate the conduct of persons engaged in interstate
commerce; and in no case will it be found that this court
has ever intimated that a person may, as to himself or
herself, be the subject of interstate commerce. In the
case of interstate travel the power of Congress is over the
traveler, and not over any other person or thing; but in
the case. of an interstate shipment the power of Congress
is over the subject-matter, as well as over the shipper.
I think we may safely say that as every person passing
from State to State has a right to go without molestation,
insult, or injury, Congress could pass a law prohibiting
affrays, or the use of obscene language, on any coach
carrying interstate passengers; but beyond the safety and

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Petitioner in No. 464.

242 U. S.

comfort of interstate passengers Congress cannot regulate
the personal conduct of those who travel. The power is
one over commerce, and is restrained by the very nature
of it to commerce, in some substantial form.
How can a man violate an interstate commerce law
when he does not travel himself, and does not send or
receive anything from another State? It will not answer
to say that he received the woman, because his interest in
her was of that personal kind which is not reducible to
commerce. The case would be entirely different if the
woman whose transportation he had furnished was taken
by him on the journey against her will or for the purpose
of selling or exploiting her; for in that case she would be
"the subject" of interstate commerce, and in transporting
her from State to State he would be as much amenable
to the commerce power of Congress as if he shipped a
horse.
I will not insult the intelligence of the court by asking
whether this law, if intended to apply to other than the
real white slave traffic, is designed to regulate commerce or
to regulate morals. If the law means that all immorality
connected in any way with interstate transportation is
within this act, then it is designed to regulate morals, not
commerce; and if the Congress of the United States can,
under the pretense of regulating commerce, take the
morals of the people under federal control, it can, under
the same pretense, gradually usurp the police powers of
these States and finally destroy the States themselves.
Mr. Harry 0. Glasser for petitioner in No. 464:
The word "prostitution" implies indiscriminate intercourse with men, People v. Demousset, 71 California, 611;
State v. Goodwin, 33 Kansas, 538; Carpenter v. People, 8
Barbour (N. Y.), 603; Van Dalsen v. Commonwealth, 89
S. W. Rep. 255; United States v. Smith, 35 Fed. Rep. 490,
and has been defined as involving the ideas of hire. ane

CAMINETTI v. UNITED STATES.
242 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner in No. 464.

gain. Munfill v. People, 154 Illinois, 640; State v. Gibson,
111 Missouri, 97.
"Debauchery" signified originally an enticing away
from employment or duty; later, a corruption of one's
manners or morals, and as applied to women, merely
seduction. Koenig v. Nott, 2 Hilt. (N. Y.) 323; Scott's
Edition of Bailey's Dictionary (1755); McKenzie English
Synonyms (London, 1854).
The words "other immoral practice" depend on the
words preceding, embracing merely immoral acts which
are analogous to prostitution and debauchery. As used
in the statute, .they apply to action which directly or
indirectly involves gain. The true meaning is evidenced
clearly by the definition of the act as the White Slave
Traffic Act in § 8, which could have had no other purpose
than to indicate the character of the offenses intended.
All doubt on this subject is entirely removed by the report
of the House Committee. Among other things the report
makes very evident that the act was intended to combat
an intolerable condition of affairs of recent origin due to
modern transportation facilities. It could not, therefore,
have been aimed at the practices of adultery and fornication.
Congress having no power to forbid these practices, the
act must be construed within its power, that is, as relating
to commerce or traffic in prostitutes. United States v.
Bitty, 208 U. S. 393, related to an act passed to regulate
the introduction of aliens into the country, which, as the
court said, sought to keep out immigrants "whose per.manent residence here would not be desirable, or for the
common good." This was not necessarily based upon the
commerce clause; the regulation of traffic and travel
among citizens between different States is quite another
thing, and so the intent of Congress in the alien act cannot
be said to be the same as its intent in the White Slave
Traffic Act, even though similar words are employed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

'A definite evil was aimed at; not a general condition.
Holy Trinity Church v. United States, 143 U. S. 457.
The conviction was not sustained by the indictment.
The charges that the objects of the transactions com-

plained of were prostitution and debauchery being in no
respect made out, the conviction could only be sustained
upon the charge that "other immoral practices" were in
view. This allegation, merely following the generality of
the statute, was insufficient. A conviction based on such
a generality could not be pleaded against another indictment involving the same transaction.
The court should have warned the jury against the
testimony of the woman as an accomplice, as requested by
the petitioner.
That the woman transported is an accomplice, see Holte
v. United States, 236 U. S. 140; Reed v. State, 63 Arkansas,
457; People v. Collum, 122 California, 186; State v. Jones,
115 Iowa, 113.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Wallace for the United
States.
MR. JuSTIcE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

These three cases were argued together, and may be
disposed of in a single opinion. In each of the cases there
was a conviction and sentence for violation of the so-called
White Slave Traffic Act of June 25, 1910, 36 Stat. 825, the
judgments were affirmed by the Circuit Courts of Appeals,
and writs of certiorari bring the cases here.
In the Caminetti c se,'the petitioner was indicted in the
United States District Court for the Northern District of
California, upon the sixth day of May, 1913, kr alleged
violations of the act. The indictment was in four counts,
the first of which charged him with transporting and
causing to be transported and aiding and assisting in

CAMINETTI v. UNITED STATES.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

obtaining transportation for a certain woman from Sacramento, California, to Reno, Nevada, i'n interstate commerce for the purpose of debauchery, and for an immoral
purpose, to wit, that the aforesaid woman should be and
become his mistress and concubine. A verdict of not
guilty was returned as to the other three counts of this
indictment. As to the first count defendant was found
guilty and sentenced to imprisonment for eighteen months
and to pay a fine of $1,500.00. Upon Writ of error to the
United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit, that judgment was affirmed. 220 Fed. Rep.
545.
Diggs was indicted at the same time as was Caminetti,
upon six counts, with only four of which are we concerned,
inasmuch as there was no verdict upon the last two. The
first count charged the defendant with transporting and
causing to be transported and aiding and assisting in
obtaining transportation for a certain woman from Sacramento, California, to Reno, Nevada, for the purpose of
debauchery, and for an immoral purpose, to wit, that the
aforesaid woman should be and become his concubine and
mistress. The second count charged him with a like
offense as to another woman (the companion of Caminetti)
in transportation, etc., from Sacramento to Reno that she
might become the mistress and concubine of Caminetti.
The third count charged him (Diggs) with procuring a
ticket for the first mentioned woman from Sacramento to
Reno in interstate commerce, with the intent that she
should become his concubine and mistress. The fourth
count made a like charge as to the girl companion of
Caminetti. Upon trial and verdict of guilty on these
-four counts, he was sentenced to imprisonment for two
years and to pay a fine of $2,000.00. As in the Caminetti
case, that judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals. 220 Fed, Rep. 545,
In the Hays case, uon June 20th, 1914, an indictmaent

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

was returned in the United States District Court for the
Western District of Oklahoma against Hays and another,
chargingviolations of the act. The first count charged the
said defendants with having, on March 17th, 1914, persuaded, induced, enticed and coerced a certain woman,
unmarried and under the age of eighteen years, from
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, to the City of Wichita, Kansas, in interstate commerce and travel, for the purpose and
with intent then and there to induce and coerce the said
woman, and intending that she should be induced and
coerced to engage in prostitution, debauchery and other
immoral practices, and did then and there, in furtherance
of such patrposes, procure and furnish a railway ticket
entitling her to passage over a line of railway, to wit, the
Atchison, Topeka and Santa F6 Railway, and did then and
there and thereby knowingly entice, and cause the said
woman to go and to be carried and transported as a passenger in interstate commerce upon said line of railway.
The second count charged that on the same date the
defendants persuaded, induced, enticed and coerced the
same woman to be transported from Oklahoma City to
Wichita, Kansas, with the purpose and intent to induce
and coerce her to engage in prostitution, debauchery and
other immoral practices at and within the State of Kansas,
and that they enticed her and caused her to go and be
carried and transported as a passenger in interstate cornmerce from Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, to Wichita, Kansas, upon a line and route of a common carrier, to-wit, the
Atchison, Topeka and Santa F6 Railway. Defendants
were found guilty by a jury upon both counts, and Hays
was sentenced to imprisonment for eighteen months.
Upon writ of error to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit, judgment was affirmed. 231 Fed. Rep.
106.
It is contended that the act of Congress is intended to
reach only "commercialized vice," or the traffic in women

CAMINETTI v. UNITED STATES.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for gain, and that the conduct for which the several petitioners were indicted and convicted, however reprehensible in morals, is not within the purview of the statute
when properly construed in the light of its history and
the purposes intended to be accomplished by its enactment. In none of the cases was it charged or proved that
the transportation was for gain or for the purpose of furnishing women for prostitution for hire, and it is insisted
that, such' being the case, the acts charged and proved,
upon which conviction was had, do not come within the
statute.
It is elementary that the meaning of a statute must, in
the first instance, be sought in the language in which the
act is framed, and if that is plain, and if the law is within
the constitutional authority of the law-making body which
passed it, the sole function of the courts is to enforce it
according to its terms. Lake County v. Rollins, 130 U. S.
662, 670, 671; Bate Refrigerating Co. v. Sulzberger, 157
U. S. 1, 33; United States v. Lexington Mill and Elevator
Co., 2.32 U. S. 399, 409; United States v. Bank, 234 U. S.
245, 258.
Where the language is plain and admits of no more
than one meaning the duty of interpretation does not arise
and the rules which are to aid doubtful meanings need no
discussion. Hamilton v. Rathbone, 175 U. S. 414, 421.
There is no ambiguity in the terms of this act. It is
specifically made an offense to knowingly transport or
cause to be transported, etc., in interstate commerce,
any woman or girl for the purposeof prostitution or debauchery, or for "any other immoral purpose," or with
the intent and purpose to induce any such woman or
girl to become a prostitute or to give herself up to debauchery, or to engage in any other immoral practice.
Statutory words are uiniformly presumed, unless the
contrary appears, to be used in their ordinary and usual
sense, and with the meaning commonly attributed to

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

them. To cause a woman or girl to be transported for the
purposes of debauchery, and for an immoral purpose, towit, becoming a concubine or mistress, for which Caminetti
and Diggs were convicted; or to transport an unmarried
woman, under eighteen years of age, with the intent to
induce her to engage in prostitution, debauchery and
other immoral practices, for which Hays was convicted,
would seem by the very statement of the facts to embrace
transportation for purposes denounced by the act, and
therefore fairly within its meaning.
While such immoral purpose would be more culpable
in morals and attributed to baser motives if accompanied
with the expectation of pecuniary gain, such considerations
do not prevent the lesser offense against morals of furnishing transportation in order that a woman may be debauched, or become a mistress or a concubine from being the, execution of purposes within the meaning of
this law. To say the contrary would shock the common understanding of what constitutes an immoral purpose when those terms are applied, as here, to sexual
relations.
In United States v. Bitty, 208 U. S. 393, it was held that
the aft of Congress against the importation of alien
women and girls for the purpose of prostitution "and any
other immoral purpose" included the importation of an
alien woman to live in concubinage with the person importing her. In that case this court said:
"All will admit that full effect must be given to the
intention of Congress as gathered from the words of the,
statute. There can be no doubt as to what class was
aimed at by the clause forbidding the importation of alien
women for purposes of 'prostitution.' It refers to women
who for hire or without hire offer their bodies to indiscriminate intercourse with men. The lives and example
of such persons are in hostility to 'the idea of the family, as
consisting in and springing from the union for life of one

CAMINETTI v. UNITED STATIES.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

man and one woman in the holy estate of matrimony; the
sure foundation of all that is stable and noble in our

civilization; the best guaranty of that reverent morality
which is the source of all beneficent progress in social and
political improvement.' Murphy v. Ramsey, 114 U. S.
15, 45.

Now the addition in the last statute of

the words, 'or for any other immoral purpose,' after the
word 'prostitution,' must have been made for some practical object. Those added words show beyond question
that Congress had in view the protection of society against
another class-of alien women other than those who might
be brought here merely for purposes of 'prostitution.' In
forbidding the importation of alien women 'for any other
immoral purpose,' Congress evidently thought that there
were purposes in connection with the importations of alien
women which, as in the case of importations for prostitution, were to be deemed immoral. It may be admitted
that in accordance with the familiar rule of ejusdem generis,
the immoral purpose referred to by the words 'any other
immoral purpose,' must be one of the same general class or
kind as the particular purpose of 'prostitution' specified in
the same clause of the statute. 2 Lewis' Sutherland Stat.
Const., §423, and authorities cited. But that rule cannot
avail the accused in this case; for, the immoral purpose
charged in the indictment is of the same general class or
kind as the one that controls in the importation of an alien
woman for the purpose strictly of prostitution. The
prostitute may, in the popular sense, be more degraded in
character than the concubine, but the latter none the less
must be held to lead an immoral life, if any regard whatever be had to the views that are almost universally held
in this country as to the relations which may rightfully,
from the standpoint of morality, exist between man and
woman in the matter of sexual intercourse."
This definition of an immoral purpose was given prior
to the enactment of the act now under consideration, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

must be presumed to have been known to Congress When
it enacted the law here involved. (See the sections of the
act I set forth in the margin.)
1 Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the act are as follows:

"Sec. 2. That any person who shall knowingly transport or cause to
be transported, or aid or assist in obtaining transportation for, or in
transporting, in interstate or foreign commerce, or in any Territory or
in the District of Columbia, any woman or girl for the purpose of
prostitution or debauchery, or for any other immoral purpose, or with
the intent and purpose to induce, entice, or compel such woman or
girl to become a prostitute or to give herself up to debauchery, or to
engage in any other immoral practice; or who shall knowingly procure
or obtain, or cause to be procured or obtained, or aid or assist in procuring or obtaining, any ticket or tickets, or any form of transportation
or evidence of the right thereto, to be used by any woman or girl in
interstate or foreign commerce, or in any Territory or the District of
Columbia,. in going to any place for the purpose of prostitution or
debauchery, or for any other immoral purpose, or with the intent or
purpose on the part of such person to induce, entice, or compel her to
give herself up to the practice of prostitution, or to give herself up to
debauchery, or any other immoral practice, whereby any such woman
or girl shall be transported in interstate or foreign commerce, or in any
Territory or the District of Columbia, shall be deemed guilty of a
felony, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine not
exceeding five thousand dollars, or by imprisonment of not more than
five years, or by both such fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of
the court.
"Sec. 3. That any person who shall knowingly persuade, induce,
entice, or coerce, or cause to be persuaded, induced, enticed, or coerced,
or aid or assist in persuading, inducing, enticing, or coercing any woman
or girl to go from one place to another in interstate or foreign commerce,
or in any Territory or the District of Columbia, for the purpose of
prostitution or debauchery, or for any other immoral purpose, or with
the intent and purpose on the part of such person that such woman or
girl shall engage in the practice of prostitution or debauchery, or any
other immoral practice,, whether with or without her consent, and who
shall thereby knowingly cause or aid or assist in causing such woman
or girl to go and to be carried or transported as a passenger upon the
line or route of any common carrier or carriers in interstate or foreign
commerce, or any Territory or the District of Columbia, shall be
deemed guilty of a felony and on conviction thereof shall be punished

CAMINETTI v. UNITED STATES.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

But it is contended that though the words are so plain
that they cannot be misapprehended when given their
usual and ordinary interpretation, and although the sections in which they appear do not in terms limit the
offense defined and punished to acts of "commercialized
vice," or the furnishing or procuring of transportation of
women for debauchery, prostitution or immoral practices
for hire, such limited purpose is to be attributed to Congress and engrafted upon the act in view of the language
of § 8 and the report which accompanied the law upon its
introduction into and subsequent passage by the House of
Representatives.
In this connection, it may be observed that while the
title of an act cannot overcome the meaning of plain and
unambiguous words used in its body, United States v.
Fisher, 2 Cranch, 358, 386; Goodlett v. Louisville and Nashville Railroad,122 U. S. 391, 408; Pattersonv. Bark Eudora,
190 U. S. 169, 172; Cornell v. Coyne, 192 U. S. 418, 430;
Lapina v. Williams, 232 U. S. 78, 92, the title of this act
embraces the regulation of interstate commerce "by prohibiting the transportation therein for immoral purposes of
women and girls, and for other purposes." It is true that
by a fine of not more than five thousand dollars, or by imprisonment for
a term not exceeding five years, or by both such fine and imprisonment,
in the discretion of the court.
"Sec. 4. That any person who shall knowingly persuade, induce,
entice, or coerce any woman or girl under the age of eighteen years,
from any State or Territory or the District of Columbia, to any other
State or Territory or the District of Columbia, with the purpose and
intent to induce or coerce her, or that she shall be induced or coerced to
engage in prostitution or debauchery, or any other immoral practice,
and shall in furtherance of such purpose knowingly induce or cause her
to go and to be carried or transported as a passenger in interstate commerce upon the line or route of any common carrier or carriers, shall be
deemed guilty of a felony, and on conviction thereof shall be punished
by a fine of not more than ten thousand dollars, or by imprisonment for
a term not exceeding ten years, or by both such fine and imprisonment,
in the discretion of the court."

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

§ 8 of the act provides that it shall be known and referred
to as the "White-slave traffic Act," and the report accompanying the introduction of the same into the House of
Representatives set forth the fact that a material portion
of the legislation suggested was to meet conditions which
had arisen in the past few years, and that the legislation
was needed to put a stop to a villainous interstate and
international, traffic in women and girls. Still, the name
given to an act by way of designation or description, or the
report which accompanies it, cannot change the plain
import of its words. If the words are plain, they give
meaning to the -act, and it is neither the duty nor the
privilege of the courts to enter speculative fields in search
of Reports
a different meaning.
to Congress accompanying the introduction
of
the
true
the
courts
in
reaching
proposed laws may aid
meaning of the legislature in cases of doubtful interpretation, Blake v. National Banks, 23 Wall. 307, 319; Bate
Refrigerating Co. v. Sulzberger, 157 U. S. 1, 42; Chesapeake
and Potomac Telephone Co. v. Manning, 186 U. S. 238, 246;
Binns v. United States, 194 U. S. 486, 495. But, as we have
already said, and it has been so often affirmed as to become a recognized rule, when words are free from doubt
they must be taken as the final expression of the legislative
intent, and are not to be added to or subtracted from by
considerations drawn from titles or. designating names or
reports accompanying their introduction, or from any
extraneous source. In other words, the language being
plain, and not leading to absurd or wholly impracticable
consequences, it is the sole evidence of the ultimate legislative intent. See Mackenzie v. Hare, 239 U. S. 299, 308.
The fact, if it be so, that the act as it is written opens
the door to blackmailing operations upon a large scale, is
no reason why the courts should refuse to Ienforce it ac-'
cording to its terms, if within the constitutional authority
of Congress. Such considerations are more appropriately

CAMINETTI v. UNITED STATES.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

addressed to the legislative branch of the government,
which alone had authority to enact and may if it sees fit
amend the law. Lake County v. Rollins, supra, p. 673.
It is further insisted that a different construction of the
act than is to be gathered from reading it is necessary in
order to save it from constitutional objections, fatal to its
validity. The act has its constitutional sanction in the
power of Congress over interstate commerce. Thd broad
character of that authority was declared once for all in the
judgment pronounced by this court, speaking by Chief
Justice Marshall, in Gibbons v. Odgen,.9 Wheat. 1, and has
since been steadily adhered to and applied to a variety of
new conditions as they have arisen.
It may be conceded, for the purpose of the argument,
that Congress has no power to punish one who travels in
interstate commerce merely because he has the intention
of committing an illegal or immoral act at the conclusion
of the journey. But this act is not concerned with such
instances. It seeks to reach and punish the movement in
interstate commerce of women and girls with a view to the
accomplishment of the unlawful purposes prohibited.
The transportation of passengers in interstate commerce, it has long been settled, is within the regulatory
power of Congress, under the commerce clause of the
Constitution, and the iauthority of Congress to keep the
channels of interstate commerce free from immoral and
injurious uses has been frequently sustained, and is no
longer open to question.
Moreover, this act has been sustained against objections
affecting its constitutionality of the character now urged.
Hoke v. United States, 227 U. S. 308; Athanasaw v. United
States, 227 U. S. 326; Wilson v. United States, 232 U. S.
563. In the Hoke -Case, the constitutional objections were
given consideration and denied upon grounds fully stated
in the opinion (pp. 308 et seq.). It is trVe that the particular case arose from a prosecution of'one charged with

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion Of the Court.

242 U. S.

transporting a woman for the purposes of prostittion in
violation of the act. But, holding as we do, that the purposes and practices for which the transportqtion in these
cases was procured are equally within the denunciation of
the act, what was said in the Hoke Case as to the power of
Congress over the subject is as applicable now as it was
then.
After reviewing the Lottery Case, 188 U. S. 321, 357, and
other cases in this court decided since the decision of that.
case,. it was said in the Hoke Case (p. 323):
"The principle established by the cases is the simple one,
when rid of confusing and distracting considerations, that
Congress has power over transportation 'among the
several States'; that the power is complete in itself, and
that Congress, as an incident to it, may adopt not only
means necessary but convenient to its exercise, and the
means may have the quality of police regulations. Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196, 215; Cooley,
Constitutional Limitations, 7th ed. 856. We have no
hesitation, therefore, in pronouncing the act of June 25,
1910, a legal exercise of the power of Congress."
Notwithstanding this disposition of the questions concerning the construction and constitutionality of the act,
certain of the questions made are of sufficient gravity to
require further consideration.
In the Diggs case, after referring to the fact that the
defendant had taken the stand in his own behalf and that
his testimony differed somewhat from that of the girls who
had testified in the case, and instructing the jury that it
was their province to ascertain the truth of the matter, the
court further said: "After testifying to the relations between himself and Caminetti and these girls down to the
Sunday night on which the evidence of the Government
tends to show the trip to Reno was taken, he stops short
and has given none of the details or incidents of that trip
nor any direct statement of the intent or purpose with

CAMINETTI v. UNITED STATES.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

which that trip was taken, contenting himself with merely
referring to it as having been taken, and by testifying to
his state of mind for some days previous to the taking of
that trip. Now this was the defendant's privilege, and,
being a defendant, he could not be required to say more
if he did not desire to do so; nor could he be cross-examined
as to matters not covered by his direct testimony. But in
passing upon the evidence in the case for the purpose of
finding the facts you have a right to take this omission of
the defendant into consideration. A defendant is not required under the law to take the witness-stand. He cannot be compelled to testify at all, and if he fails to do so no
inference unfavorable to him may be drawn from that
fact, nor is the prosecution permitted in that case to comment unfavorably upon the defendant's silence; but where
a defendant elects to go upon the witness-stand and testify,
he then subjects himself to the same rule as that applying
to any other witness, and if he has failed to deny or ex
plain acts of an incriminating nature that the evidence of
the prosecution tends to establish against him, such failure
may not only be commented upon, but may be considered
by the jury with all the other circumstances in reaching
their conclusion as to his guilt or innocence; since it is a
legitimate inference that, could he have truthfully denied
or explained the incriminating evidence against him, he
would have done so."
This instruction, it is contended, was error in that it
permitted the jury to draw inferences against the accused
from failure to explain incriminating circumstances when
it was within his power to do so, and thus operated to his
prejudice and virtually made him a witness against himself in derogation of rights secured by the Fifth Amendment to the Federal Constitution.
There is a difference of opinion expressed in the cases
upon this subject, the Circuit Court of Appeals in the
Eighth Circuit holding a contrary view, as also did the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

Circuit Court of Appeals in the First Circuit. See Balliet
v. United States, 129 Fed. Rep. 689; Myrick v. United
States, 219 Fed. Rep. 1. We think: the better reasoning
supports the view sustained in the Court of Appeals in
this case, which is that where the accused takes the
stand in his own behalf and voluntarily testifies for
himself (Act of March 16, 1878, c. 37, 20 Stat. 30,) he
may not stop short in his testimony by omitting and
failing to explain iqcriminating circumstances and events
already in evidence, in which he participated and concerning which he is fully informed, without subjecting his silence to the inferences to be naturally drawn
from it.
The accused of all persons had it within his power to
meet, by his own account of the facts, the incriminating
testimony of the girls. When he took the witness stand
in his own behalf he voluntarily relinquished his privilege
of silence, and ought not to be heard to speak alone of
those things deemed to be for his interest and be silent
where he or his counsel regarded it for his interest to
remain so, without the fair inference which would naturally spring from his speaking only of those things which
would exculpate him and refraining to speak upon matters
within his knowledge which might incriminate him. The
instruction to the jury concerning the failure of the accused to explain acts- of an incriminating nature which
the evidence for the prosecution tended to establish against
him, and the inference to be drawn from his silence must
be read in connection with the statement made in this
part of the charge which clearly shovvs that the court was
speaking with reference to the defendant's silence as to the
trip to Reno with the girls named in the indictment, and
as to the facts, circumstances and intent with which that
trip was taken, and the jupry was told that it had a right
to take into consideration that omission.
The court did not put upon the defendant the burden

CAMINETTI v. UNITED STATES.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of explaining every inculpatory fact shown or claimed to
be established by the prosecution. The ilference was to
be drawn from the failure of the accused to meet evidence
as to these matters within his own knowledge and as to
events in which he was an activeparticipant and fully able
to speak when he voluntarily took the stand in his own
behalf. We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals that
it was the privilege of the trial court to call the attention of
the jury in such manner as it did to this omission of the
accused when he took the stand in his own behalf.
See in this connection Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591,
597; Sawyer v. United States, 202 U. S. 150, 165; Powers v.
United States, 223 U. S. 303, 314.
It is urged as a further ground of reversal of the judgments below that the trial court did not instruct the jury
that the testimony of the two girls was that of accomplices,
and to be received with great caution and believed only
when corroborated by other testimony adduced in the
case. We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals that
the requests in the form made should not have been given.
In Holmgren v. United States, 217 U. S. 509, this court
refused to reverse a judgment for failure to give an instruction of this general character, while saying that it was
the better practice for courts to caution juries against too
much reliance upon the testimony of accomplices and to
require corroborating testimony before giving credence to
such evidence. While this is so, there is no absolute rule of
law'preventing convictions on the testimony of accomplices if juries believe them. I Bishop's Criminal Procedure, 2nd ed., § 1081, and cases cited in the note.
Much is said about the character of the testimony adduced and as to certain facts tending to establish the
guilt or innocence of the accused. This court does not
weigh the evidence in a proceeding of this character, and
it is enough to say that there was substantial testimony
tending to support the verdicts rendered in the trial

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
MCKENNA, J., WHITE,

C. J., and

CLARKE,

J., dissenting.

242 U. S.

courts. Other objections are urged upon our attention,
but we find in none of them a sufficient reason for reversing
the judgments of the Circuit Courts of Appeals in these
cases.
The judgment in each of the cases is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or decision of these cases.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, with whom concurred the
CHIEF JUSTICE

and MR.

JUSTICE CLARKE,

dissenting.

Undbubtedly in the investigation of the meaning of a
statute wu resort first to its words, and when clear they
are decisive. The principle has attractive and seemingly
disposing simplicity, but that it is not easy of application
or, at least, encounters other principles, many cases demonstrate. The words of a statute may be uncertain in their
signification or in their application. If the words be ambiguous, the problem they present is to be resolved by
be-"
their definition; the subject-matter and the lexicons
come our guides. But here, even, we are not exempt from
putting ourselves in the place of the legislators. If the
words be clear in meaning but the objects to which they
are addressed be uncertain, the problem then is to determine the uncertainty. And for this a realization of conditions that provoked the statute must inform our judgment. Let us apply these observations to the present case.
The transportation which is made unlawful is of a
woman or girl "to become a prostitute or to give herself
up to debauchery, or to engage in any other immoral practice." Our present concern is with the words "any other
immoral practice," which, it is asserted, have a special
office. The words are clear enough as general descriptions;
they fail in particular designation; they are class words,
not specifications. Are they controlled by those which

CAMINETTI v. UNITED STATES.
242 U. S. McKENNA, J., WHITE, C. J., and

CLARKE,

J., dissenting.

precede them? If not, they are broader in generalization
and include those that precede them, making them unnecessary and confusing. To what conclusion would this
lead us? "Immoral" is a very comprehensive word. It
means a dereliction of morals. In such sense it covers
every form of vice, every form of conduct that is contrary to good order. It will hardly be contended that in
this sweeping sense it is used in the statute. But if not
used in such sense, to what is it limited and by what
limited? If it be admitted that it is limited at all, that
ends the imperative effect assigned to it in the opinion of
the court. But not insisting quite on that, we ask again,
By what is it limited? By its context, necessarily, and the
purpose of the statute.
For the context I must refer to the statute; of the purpose of the statute Congress itself has given us illumination. It devotes a section to the declaration that the
"Act shall be known and referred to as the 'White-slave
traffic Act."' And its prominence gives it prevalence in
the construction of the statute. It cannot be pushed aside
or subordinated by indefinite words in other sentences,
limited even there by the context. It is a peremptory rule
of construction that all parts of a statute must be taken
into account in ascertaining its meaning, *andit cannot be
said that § 8 has no object. Even if it gives only a title
to the act it has especial weight. United States v. Union
PacificR. R. Co., 91 U. S. 72, 82. But it gives more than a
title; it makes distinctive the purpose of the statute. The
designation" White-slave traffic" has the sufficiency of an
axiom. If apprehended, there is no uncertainty as to the
conduct it describes. It is commercialized vice, immoralities having a mercenary purpose, and this is confirmed by
other circumstances.
The author of the bill was Mr. Mann, and in reporting
it from the House Conifnittee on Interstate and Foreign
Commerce he declared for the Committee that it was not

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
MCKENNA, J., WHITE, C. J., and CLARKE, J., dissenting.

242 U. S.

the purpose of the bill to interfere with or usurp in any
way the police power of the States, and further that it
was not the intention of the bill to regulate prostitution
or the places where prostitution or immorality was practiced, which were said to be matters wholly within the
power of the States and over which the federal government had no jurisdiction. And further explaining the
bill, it was said that the sections of the act had been "so
drawn that they are limited to cases in which there is the
act of transportation in interstate commerce of women
for purposes of prostitution." And again:
"The White Slave Trade. A material portion of the
legislation suggested and proposed is necessary to meet
conditions which have arisen within the past few years.
The legislation is needed t9 put a stop to a villainous
interstate and international traffic in women and girls.
The legislation is not needed or intended as an aid to
the States in the exercise of their police powers in the
suppression or regulationjof immorality in general. It
does not attempt to regulate the practice of voluntary
prostitution, but aims solely to prevent panderers and
procurers from compelling thousands of women and girls
against their will and desire to enter and continue in a
life of prostitution." House Report No. 47, 61st Cong.,
2d sess., pp. 9, 10.
In other words, it is vice as a business at which the law
is directed, using interstate commerce as a facility to
procure or distribute its victims.
In 1912 the sense of the Department of Justice was
taken of the act in a case where a woman of 24 years went
from Illinois, where she lived, to Minnesota at the solicitation and expense of a man. She was there met by him and
engaged with him in immoral practices like those for which
petitioners were convicted. The district attorney forwarded her statement to the Attorney General, with the
comment thAt the element of tr~fc was absent frm h.e

CAMINETTI v. UNITED STATES.
242 U. S.

McKENNA,

J.,

WHiTE,

C. J., and

CLARKE,

499

J., dissenting.

transaction and that therefore, in his opinion, it was not
"within the spirit and intent of the Mann Act." I Replying, the Attorney General expressed his concdrrence in the
view of his subordinate.'
Of course, neither the declarations of the report of the
Committee on Interstate Commerce of the House nor the
opinion of the Attorney General are conclusive of the
meaning of the law, but they are highly persuasive. The
opinion was by one skilled in the rules and methods employed in the miterpretation or construction of laws, and
informed besides of the conditions to which the act was
addressed. The report was by the committee charged
with the duty of investigating the necessity for the act
and to inform the House of the results of that investigation, both of evil and remedy. The report of the coinmittee has, therefore, a higher quality than debates on the
floor of the House. The representations of the latter may
indeed be ascribed to the exaggerations of advocacy or
opposition. The report of a committee. is the execution of
a duty and has the sanction of duty. There is a presumption, therefore, that the measure it recommends has the
purpose it declares and will. accomplish it as declared.
1 "Careful consideration of the facts and circumstances as related by
Miss Cox fails to convince me that her case came within the spirit and
intent of the Mann act. The element of traffic is entirely absent from
this transaction. It is not a case of prostitution or debauchery and the
general words 'or other immoral practice' should be qualified by the
particular preceding words and be read in the light of the rule of
Ejusdem Generis. This view of the statute is the more reasonable when
considered in connection with Section 8 where Congress employs the
terms 'slave' and 'traffic' as indicative of its purpose to suppress certain forms of abominable practice connected with the degradation of
women for gain."
2 "1 agree with your conclusion that the facts and circumstances set
forth in your letter and its enclosure do not bring the matter within the
true intent of the White Slave Traffic Act, and that no prosecution
against Edwards should be instituted in the federal courts unless other
and different facts are presented to you."

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
MCKENNA,

J., WHITE, C. J., and

CLARKE,

J., dissenting. 242 U. S.

This being the purpose, the words of the statute should
be construed to execute it, and they may be so construed
even if their literal meaning be otherwise. In Holy Trinity
Church v. United States, 143 U. S. 457, there came to this
court for construction an act of Congress which made it unlawful for any one in any of the United States "to prepay
the transportation, or in any way assist or encourage the
importation or migration of any alien or aliens, any foreigner or foreigners, into the United States . . . under
contract or agreement . . . to perform labor or service
of any kind [italics mine] in the United States, its Territories
or the District of Columbia." The Trinity Church made a
contract with one E. W. Warren, a resident of England, to
remove to the City of New York and enter its service as
rector and pastor. The church was proceeded against
under the act and the Circuit Court held that it applied
and rendered judgment accordingly. 36 Fed. Rep. 303.
It will be observed that the language of6h' statute is
very comprehensive, fully as much .so ao _th language of
the act under review, having no limitvjgn. whatever from
the context; and th6 Circuit Court,.i 9Sbmission to what
the court considered its imperative qft,1ity, rendered judgment against the church. This court reversed the judgment, and, in an elaborate opinion by Mr. Justice Brewer,
declared that "It is a familiar rule, that a thing may be
within the letter of the statute and yet not within the
statute, because not within its spirit, nor within the intention of its makers." And the learned Justice further said:
"This has been often asserted, and the reports are full of
cases illustrating its application."
It is hardly necessary to say that the application of the
rule does not depend upon the objects of the legislation, to
be applied or not applied as it may exclude or include good
things or bad things. Its principle is the simple one that
the words of a statute will be extended or restricted to
execute its purpose.

CAMINETTI v. UNITED STATES.
242 U. S.

MCKENNA, J., WmT,

C. J., and CLARKE, J., dissenting.

Another pertinent illustration of the rule is Reiche v.
Smythe, 13 Wall. 162, in which the court declared that if
at times it was its duty to regard the words.of a statute, at
times it was also its duty to disregard them, limit or extend them, in order to execute the purpose of the statute.
And applying the principle, it decided that in a tariff act
the provision that a duty should be imposed on horses,
etc., and other live animalS imported from foreign countries should not include canary birds, ignoring the classification of nature. And so again in Silver v. Ladd, 7 Wall.
219, where the benefit of the Oregon Donation Act was
extended by making the words "single man" used in the
statute mean an unmarried woman, disregarding a difference of genders clearly expressed in the law.
The rule that these cases illustrate is a valuable one and
in varying degrees has daily practice. It not only rescues
legislation from absurdity (so far the :opinion of the court
admits its application), but it often rescues it from invalidity, a useful result in our dual form of governments
and conflicting jurisdictions. It is the dictate of common
sense. Language, even when most masterfully used, may
miss sufficiency and give room for dispute. Is it a wonder
therefore, that when used in the haste of legislation, in
view of conditions perhaps only partly seen or not seen at
all, the consequences, it may be, beyond present foresight,
it often becomes necessary to apply the rule? And it is a
rule of prudence and highest sense. It rescues from
crudities, excesses and deficiencies, making legislation
adequate to its special purpose, rendering unnecessary.
repeated qualifications and leaving the simple and best
exposition of a law the mischief it was intended to redress.
Nor is this judicial legislation. It is seeking and enforcing
the true sense of a law notwithstanding its imperfection or
generality of expression.
There is much in the present case to tempt to a violation
of the rule. Any measure that protects the purity of

,OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
MCKENNA, J., WmTi, C.

J., and CLARKE, J., dissenting.

242 U. S.

women from assault or enticement to degradation finds an
instant advocate in our best emotions; but the judicial
function cannot yield to emotion-it must, with poise of
mind, consider and decide. It should not shut its eyes to
the facts of the world and assume not to know what everybody else knows. And everybody knows that there is a
difference between the occasional immoralities of men and
women and that systematized and mercenary immorality
epitomized in the statute's graphic phrase "White-slave
traffic." And it was such immorality that was in the
legislative mind and not the other. The other is occasional, not habitual-inconspicuous-does not offensively
obtrude upon public .notice. Interstate commerce is not
its instrument as it is of the other, nor is prostitution its
object or its end. It may, indeed, in instances, find a
convenience in crossing state lines, but this is its accident,
not its aid.There is danger in extending a statute beyond its purpose, even if justified by a strict adherence to its words.
The purpose is studied, all effects measured, not left at
random-one evil practice prevented, opportunity given
to another. The present case warns against ascribing such
improvidence to the statute under review. Blackmailers
of both sexes have arisen, using the terrors of the construction now sanctioned by this court as a help-indeed,
the means-for their brigandage. The "result is grave and
should give us pause. It certainly will not be denied that
legal authority justifies the rejection of a construction
which leads to mischievous consequences, if the statute be
susceptible of another construction.
United States v. Bitty, 208 U. S. 393, is not in opposition.
The statute passed upon was a prohibition against the
importation of alien women or girls, a statute, therefore, of
broader purpose than the one under review. Besides, the
statute finally passed upon was an amendment to a prior
statute and the words construed were an addition to the

VON BAUMBACH v. SARGENT LAND CO.
242 U. S.

503

Syllabus.

prior statute and necessarily, therefore, had an added
effect. The first statute prohibited the importation of any
alien woman or girl into the United States "for the purposes of prostitution." The second statute repeated the
words and added "or for any other immoral purpose"
(italics mine). 'Necessarily there was an enlargement of
purpose, and besides the act was directed against the
importation of foreign corruption and was construed
accordingly. The case, therefore, does not contradict the
rule; it is an example of it.
For these reasons I dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court, expressing no opinion of the other
propositions in the cases.
I am authorized to say that, the CHIEF JUSTICE and MR.
JUSTICE CLARKE concur

in this dissent.

VON BAUMBACH, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. SARGENT LAND COMPANY.
VON BAUMBACH, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. SUTTON LAND COMPANY.
VON BAUMBACH, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. KEARSARGE LAND COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 286, 287, 288.

Argued December 13,14, 1916.-Decided January 15,
1917.

Corporations organized under the laws of Minnesota, not for charitable
or eleemosynary purposes but for the pecuniary advantage of their
shareholders, held, "organized for profit" within the meaning of the
Corporation Tax Law of August 5,.1909.

