CALDWELL v. SIOUX FALLS STOCK YARDS CO.
242 U. S.

559

Syllabus.

portation, subjected to the jurisdiction of the State only
when they are attempted to be sold to the individual
purchaser? The questions are pertinent, the answer to
them one way or the other, of consequence; but we may
pass them, for regarding the securities as still in interstate commerce after their transportation to the State
is ended and they have reached the hands of dealers in
them, their interstate character is only incidentally affected by the statute.
Decree reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS dissents.

CALDWELL, AS ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR THE
STATE OF SOUTH DAKOTA AND EX OFFICIO
MEMBER OF THE STATE SECURITIES COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF SOUTH DAKOTA,
ET AL. v. SIOUX FALLS STOCK YARDS COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH DAKOTA.
No. 386.

Argued October 16, 17, 1916.-Decided January 22, 1917.

The South Dakota "Blue Sky Law," Laws of 1915, c. 275, is the sange
in principle as the laws of Ohio and Michigan involved in Hall v.
Geiger-Jones Co., ante, 539, and Merrick v. Halsey & Co., post, 568,
and is sustained over constitutional objections, for the reasons assigned in those cases, as applied to a Colorado corporation seeking
to raise capital by sales of its own shares, and to individuals dealing in such shares.
When a statute regulating complainant's business is alleged to be un-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Appellees.

242 U. S.

constitutional and its effect, if the business be continued in disregard of it, will be to visit him with repeated criminal prosecutions
involving heavy fines and imprisonment, the remedy at law is not
adequate.
A suit to enjoin state officials from instituting criminal proceedings in

enforcement of such a statute is not a suit against the State.
Reversed. For decree below see 230 Fed. Rep. 236, note.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Clarence C. Caldwell, Attorney General of the State
of South Dakota, with whom Mr. Byron S. Payne, Assistant Attorney General of the State of South Dakota,
was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. GeorgeJ. Danforth,with whom Mr. Hugh S. Gamble,
Mr. Frank McLaughlin and Mr. Edward E. Wagner were
on the brief, for appellees:
The act denies to the appellees due process of law, in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment and the South
Dakota constitution, § 2, Article 6.
A complete analysis of its provisions shows that this
is not a law to prevent fraud in the sale of stocks and
bonds. It is a law designed for the sole purpose of regulating the control of the sale of stocks and bonds to a point
of absolute prohibition. The stocks and bonds that are
sold under the permit given by the commission are no
more protected against the fraud and deceit of the agent
in selling them than are those that are sold without a
permit: The law is purely an attempt to regulate profit
and loss and to try to guarantee the citizens of South
Dakota against a possible mistake in judgment. It is
simply an effort to prevent the citizens of this State from
entering into a legitimate enterprise for gain, if they so
desire, and to guard their pocketbooks. The law does not
provide any penalty for fraud, but simply contains a
prohibition against and provides a penalty for tendering
for sale an article of commerce, however honestly it may

CALDWELL v. SIOUX FALLS STOCK YARDS CO. 561
242 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

be tendered. Herein lies the vice of the statute, and
herein does it differ from all laws regulating commercial
transactions, which have been upheld by the court under
the guise of police regulations.
The State Securities Commission is not merely an ad-.
ministrative board vested with certain discretionary
powers, but is rather a court before which evidence must
be taken, examined and weighed, and with authority
greater than was ever conferred upon any judicial tribunal
in this country.
The very right to make a contract is taken away from
the individual unless the individual or corporation or association receives the stamp of approval of the commission
upon the contract.
For a century or more the business of trading in horses
has been recognized as a line of business in which fraud
was frequently practiced. There would be just as much
sense in having the State Securities Commission put its
stamp of approval upon every horse trade as there would
be to have it set up its judgment against the skilled investor, simply because an occasional person has lost his
money by reason of a stock transaction. Ex parte Hawley,
22 S. Dak. 23.
The act is an unlawful interference with interstate commerce. Catlin & Powell v. Schuppert, 110 N. W. Rep. 818;
Hatch v. Reardon, 204 U. S. 152; International Textbook
Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91.
The statute denies to the appellees the equal protection
of the law. It exempts state and national banks and loan
associations and certain other classes.
The act attempts to delegate both legislative and judicial power to the State Securities Commission, and is not
an inspection law. Phnix Insurance Co. v. Perkins, 101
N. W. Rep. 1110; Sioux Falls v. Kirby, 6 S. Dak. 62;
Hewitt v. Board of Medical Examiners, 84 Pac. Rep. 39;
Mathews v. Murphy, 63 S. W. Rep. 785.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

In the case at bar, the law distinctly provides that all
that is necessary for the Securities Commission to find is
that in its opinion the sale of stocks, bonds, etc., might
work fraud upon the purchaser. A pure and absolute
discretionary power is given to the commission. First,
as to the granting of the permit, and, Second, as to the
revocation of the permit after it is granted. There is no
standard fixed to guide the commission in granting the
permit, nor is there any standard prescribed as the reason
for the revocation of the permit.
Mr. George Cosson, Attorney General of the State of
Iowa, and Mr. Walter C. Owen, Attorney General of the
State of Wisconsin, by leave of court, filed a brief as amici
curioe on behalf of the National Association of Attorneys
General of the United States.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This case was argued and submitted with Nos. 438, 439
and 440, just decided, ante, 539, and with No. 413, post,
568, which concerns a statute of Michigan of like kind, the
opinion in which is to follow. It involves the same general
questions as those cases and is presented to review a decree
of the District Court enjoining appellants from enforcing a
statute of the State of South Dakota relating to the sale of
securities. The act (§ 23) makes violations of its provisions a misdemeanor and criminal prosecutions under the
act were the particular actions of the officers of the State
that the appellees prayed to be enjoined.
. After a consideration of the pleadings and argument the
court, consisting of three judges, expressed the view that
the statute violated the Constitution of the United States,
and cited in confirmation Alabama & N. 0. Transportation
Co. v. Doyle, 210 Fed. Rep. 173; Win. R. Compton Co. v,

CALDWELL v. SIOUX FALLS STOCK YARDS CO. 563
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Allen, 216 Fed. Rep. 537, and Bracey v. Darst, 218 Fed.
Rep. 482.
The court decreed that the appellants be enjoined from
instituting and prosecuting any actions, civil or criminal,
against complainants (appellees) under the statute for
alleged violations thereof, and from taking any proceedings for its enforcement except such as might be deemed
proper by them in the criminal actions already pending.
The Sioux Falls Stock Yards Company is a Colorado
corporation, having its principal place of business at the
City of Denver, and the Morleys are residents and citizens
of Iowa.
The Stock Yards Company was at the times mentioned
in the bill engaged in building and constructing a stock
yard in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, and in selling a certain
amount of its capital stock for raising sufficient capital for
that purpose. The Morleys, at such time, were engaged in
the buying and selling of stock and especially in selling the
stock of the Stock Yards Company to various farmers and
other purchasers, such sales being necessary to complete
the construction of the stock yard and also necessary to
enable the Morleys to earn a livelihood.
Six informations were filed against appellees at the
instigation of appellants for violations of the -statute and
it is alleged that appellees will be prosecuted immediately
under such informations and will be further prosecuted.
The statute, it is alleged, is an infraction of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States and imposes a burden upon and practically amounts
to a prohibition of interstate commerce and h~nce offends
the commerce clause of the Constitution of the United
States; and "that it attempts to vest in and delegate to
the said so-called State Securities Commission judicial
powers unauthorized by law."
Against the bill appellants urge, besides asserting the
validity of the statute, three defenses: (1) That com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

plainants have a plain, speedy and adequate remedy at
law; (2) the suit is one against the State; (3) that the plea
of the unconstitutionality of the statute was made in the
criminal actions.
The three defenses are without merit. Six informations
have already been filed against appellees and as many
more may be brought as there may be violations of the
statute, and a conviction of each may bear a fine of $1000
or imprisonment, or both.
The suit manifestly is not one against the State, and
the decree appealed from does not enjoin criminal actions
commenced before the filing of the bill. We therefore
pass to the merits.
A summary of the statute is all that is necessary. Its
purpose as declared in its title is to prevent fraud in the
sale and disposition of stocks, bonds or other securities
sold or offered for sale within the State. It creates a commission called the State Securities Commission, of which
the appellants-except Hanson, who is prosecuting attorney of Turner County-are members.
Those dealing in 'securities-and they may be persons,
corporations, co-partnerships, companies or associations,
incorporated or unincorporated-shall be known, it is
provided, "as a domestic investment company." Those
resident of or organized in any other State, Territory or
government shall be known "as a foreign investment
company."
Certain securities are exempt from the provisions of the
act and information as to those to which it applies must
be furnished to the commission as follows: If the securities
are of the dealer's own issue a statement must be filed with
the commission showing in full detail (1) the plan upon
which it proposes to transact business, (2) a copy of all
contracts, stocks and bonds which it proposes to make with
or sell to contributors or customers, togethe with a copy
of its prospectus and of the proposed advertisements of its

CALDWELL v. SIOUX FALLS STOCK YARDS CO.
242 U. S.

565

Opinion of the Court.

securities; which statement shall also show its name and
location and main office; (3) the names and addresses of
its officers and an itemized account of its financial condition and the amount of its assets and liabilities; (4) such
other information as the commission may require; (5) if a
foreign corporation, a copy of the law under which it was
incorporated; (6) a copy of its charter and certain other
papers relating to its constitution and organization. A
filing fee is provided for of not less than $10 nor more than
$100. The described papers are to be verified and, if of
record, certified to. If a foreign corporation, the applicant
must file its irievocable consent to suits against it by service of summons upon the public examiner.
The commission is authorized to require further information than that mentioned above and to make an
appraisal of the property of the applicant at the expense of
the applicant.
If the commission find from the statements filed and the
reports of the investigations conducted by it that the
securities or investment contracts offered for sale would
in its opinion work a fraud upon the purchaser, the commission shall disapprove of their sale and notify the company by registered mail of its findings and disapproval,
and it shall be unlawful for the company to sell such
securities and they shall not be sold in the State. If, however, the proposed plan of business and the securities are
not of that character their sale shall be approved and a
certificate issued of permission to sell.
The person who is authorized to sell the securities
designated in the act is termed a "dealer" in them, and
he shall not sell or offer them for sale until he shall have
filed a list of the same in the office of the commission. The
term "dealer," it is provided, shall not include an owner
nor issuer of securities when the sale of them is not made
in the course of continued and successive transactions of
a similar nature, nor one who in a trust capacity created

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

by law lawfully sells securities "impressed with such
trust." A "dealer" is required to furnish practically the
same information as that required of corporations. All
authorized agents of a "dealer" or investment company
shall be registered with the commission and if the "dealer"
be a nonresident or a corporation other than a domestic
corporation he shall at the time he registers with the commission file with it a written, duly authenticated appointment of the public examiner of the State as his or its agent
in the State upon whom process or pleadings may be
served for or on behalf of the "dealer," which appointment
shall be irrevocable. Upon compliance with the terms of
the act the commission shall issue to such "dealer" a
license which shall be good until revoked by the commission for good cause upon notice to the "dealer" and after a
hearing duly had.
There is a provision for keeping accounts, payment of
fines and other details, and it is provided that if, after
permission has been issued authorizing the sale of the
designated securities it shall be made to appear to the
commission from ait examination of an investment company that the further sale of the securities would work a
fraud upon the purchaser, the commission may make an
order revoking the license of the company and, pending
the hearing, suspend the right of the company.
It is unlawful for a dealer or investment company to sell
or offer for sale securities other than those approved by the
commission or to transact business on any other plan than
that set forth in the statements and papers required to be
filed with the commission; or to circulate advertisements
or other documents in the State differing in any way from
the copy filed with the commission; or until the same has
been approved by the commission. And no dealer shall
sell or offer for sale securities of an investment company until such company has complied with the act.
He may, however, if such investment company has not

CALDWELL, v. SIOUX FALLS STOCK YARDS CO. 567
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

itself complied with the act, make application for a
license.
Records of the commission shall be public records and
they shall be so arranged and preserved as to facilitate
their examination, except that the commission may in its
discretion withhold information relating to the private
affairs of persons or corporations when in its judgment the
same shall not be required for the public welfare, or any
information relative to any matter that may be at issue
in any court, unless upon an order of the court. Except as
so provided the commission may furnish to those who may
apply therefor any information regarding any investment
company or its affairs.
Annual statements are required to be filed by investment companies, domestic or foreign, in such form and
containing such information as the commission may demand; and failure to do so forfeits its permit.
The Supreme Court of the State upon petition of any
person aggrieved may review by ceitiorari any final order
or determination of the commission. The issue of the writ
shall not, however, unless specifically ordered by the
court, operate as a stay of proceedings.
Violations of the act are made misdemeanors punishable
by a fine of not more than $1000 or imprisonment for not
more than one year,, or both fine and imprisonment. And
it is provided that if any section of the act be declared unconstitutional or unauthorized the other sections shall not
be vacated thereby.
The statute of South Dakota differs in some details
from the statute of Ohio, but in its purpose and general
provisions it is the same. There is urged against it, as was
urged against the Ohio statute, that it violates the Fourteenth Amendment and the commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States. The argument to support
these contentions, while affluent in citation of cases, is
not so circumstantial as that which is presenfed against

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

°
242 U. S.

the Michigan statute. Therefore, we shall rest this case
upon our opinion in Nos. 438, 439 and 440, reserving to the
Michigan case our reply'to the more specific objections.
Decree reversed and cause remandedfor further proceedings
in conformity with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS dissents.

MERRICK ET AL. v. N. W. HALSEY & COMPANY
ET AL., AND THE WEIS FIBRE CONTAINER
CORPORATION.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 413.

Argued October 16, 17, 1916.-Decided January 22, 1917.

The Michigan "Blue Sky Law," Act No. 46, Public Acts, 1915, p. 63,
is the same in principle as the laws of Ohio and South Dakota, involved in lail v. Geiger-Jones Co., ante, 539, and Caldwell v. Sioux
Falls Stock Yards Co., ante, 559, and is sustained over constitutional
objections for the same reasons.
Whether the dealing in stocks and other securities, or sale of their
own issues by corporations, require governmental regulation for
the prevention of fraud, and whether svch regulation should be by
executive control or otherwise, are questions for the state legislature,
and unless its judgment in these regards, or the execution of it, be
palpably arbitrary, the courts will not interfere.
,Tt is not a function of this court to pass upon the expediency or adequacy of legislation.
The purpose of the Michigan statute is to protect investors in securities
not from financial loss generally but from fraud.
In prevention of fraud, the regulatory power of a State is not necessarily confined to those classes of business which by their nature
or as generally conducted involve or encourage fraud; it may extend
to those in which fraud usually, when it arises, is occasional and

