OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

242 U. S.

the filing of her application for allotment, they can have
no effect as against her.
Since we are convinced that the decision of the Supreme
Court of Oklahoma deprived plaintiffs in error of no right
to which they were entitled under the laws of the United
States, it results that the judgment must be and it is
A jflrmed.

BAKER, INDIVIDUALLY AND AS ADMINISTRATRIX OF BAKER, v. BAKER, ECCLES & COMPANY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.
No. 115.

Argued December 19, 1916.-Decided January 8, 1917.

The rule that the personal estate of an intestate has its situs at his
domicile, and is subject to be administered and distributed according to the domiciliary laws, is merely a rule of the common law,
which the States may adopt, modify or reject, as their policies

dictate.
Each State has the power to control and administer the personal assets
qf an intestate found within her borders, such as debts due from a
local corporation or the shares of its stock, to satisfy the rights of
her own citizens in the distribution of such assets.
No State, therefore, has the power, by probate or other proceedings
in rem, to fix the status as to .administration, pnd determine the
course of devolution, of personal property of an intestate situate
beyond her borders and within the domain of another State.
Under the Fourteenth Amendment, the courts of one State are without
power to determine by an action in personam the domicile of a decedent or the devolution of his personal assets situate in another
State, as against persons, residents of the latter, who do not appear
in the proceedings and are notified by publication only.
The full faith and credit clause of the Constitution and the act of
Congress passed pursuant to it do not entitle a judgment in personam

BAKER v. BAKER, ECCLES & COMPANY.
242 U. S.

395

Opinion of the Court.

to extra-territorial effect, if it be shown that it was rendered without
jurisdiction over the person sought to be bound.

162 Kentucky, 683, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. John A. Pitts, with whom Mr. E. W. Ross was on
the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Charles K. Wheeler, with whom Mr. Daniel Henry
Hughes and Mr. James Guthrie Wheeler were on the briefs,
for defendants in error.

MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The federal question presented in this record is whether
the Court of Appeals of Kentucky gave such faith and
credit to certain judicial proceedings of the State of Tennessee as were required by Article IV, ยง 1, of the Constitution, and the act of Congress passed in pursuance thereof.
Act of May 26, 1790, c. 11, 1 Stat. 122; Rev. Stats., ยง 905.
The facts are as follows: Charles Baker died in September, 1912, the owner of certain real and personal property
in Hardin County, Tennessee, and of 270 shares of stock
of Baker, Eccles & Company, a Kentucky corporation, of
the par value of $27,000, and a claim of several thousand
dollars against that corporation for surplus profits. He
left a widow, Josie C. Baker, now plaintiff in error, and
a mother, Augusta H. Baker, one of the defendants in
error. He appears to have left no children or descendants,
nor any considerable indebtedness, and the personal estate, if distributable according to the laws of Tennessee,
would go entirely to the widow; if distributable according
to the laws of Kentucky, it would go one-half to the widow,
the other half to the mother. The place of his domicile,
admittedly determinative of the, law of distribution, was
in controversy.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

Shortly after his death the widow applied to the County
Court of Hardin County, Tennessee, for letters of administration. The proceedings were ex parte, and her application was granted, the order of the court appointing her
administratrix reciting that at the time of his death the
residence of Charles Baker was in that county. Afterwards, and in December, 1912, the widow presented to
the same court a settlement of her accounts as administratrix, and an order was made reciting that it appeared
from proof that Charles Baker died intestate, and at the
time of his death was a resident of Hardin County,
Tennessee, and that he left no children or descendants of
such surviving, but left surviving his widow, the said
Josie C. Baker, and under the laws of Tennessee she, as
widow, was entitled to all of the surplus personal property;
whereupon it was ordered that she as administratrix transfer and deliver to herself as the widow of the deceased all
of the personal estate in her possession, including the stock
in the Kentucky corporation, the certificates for which
she held. Subsequently, and on December 28, 1912, the
widow individually and as administratrix filed in the
Chancery Court of Hardin County, Tennessee, her bill of
complaint against Mrs. Augusta H. Baker, the mother,
as a non-resident of Tennessee and a resident of the State
of Kentucky, and also against several persons who were
residents of Tennessee, setting up her appointment as
administratrix, averring that her husband died intestate
a resident of and domiciled in Tennessee, leaving his widow
as his sole heir and distributee, and his mother and a
brother his only heirs at law. The bill further set up
the widow's ownership of the stock in Baker, Eccles &
Company, and averred that the mother was asserting an
interest in one-half of the personal estate left by the intestate, upon the theory that he died a resident of Kentucky and that under the laws of that State the mother
was entitled to one-half of his surplus personal estate,

BAKER v. BAKER, ECCLES & COMPANY.
242 U. S.

397

Opinion of the Court.

The prayer was (inter alia) that the mother be brought
before the court in the manner provided for non-residents
and be required to assert whatever claim she might have
to the estate left by the deceased; and that it might be
adjudged that Charles Baker died a resident of Tennessee,
and that complainant as his widow was the sole distributee
and entitled to all of his personal estate. Upon the filing
of the bill an order of publication was made citing Augusta
H. Baker as a non-resident to make defense upon a day
named, and, she having failed to appear, the bill was
taken for confessed against her, and eventually a decree
was made "that the said Charles Baker at the time of his
death was a citizen of and had his domicile at Savannah,
Tennessee, and that the complainant as his widow is his
sole distributee, and as such entitled to all of the personal
estate of the said Charles Baker, after payment of such
debts as were owed by him at the time of his death," and
also that the title to the stock of Baker, Eccles & Company
was in complainant, and that she was entitled to have a
new certificate or certificates in her own name issued by
the corporation in lieu of the certificates issued to said
Charles Baker, and was entitled to receive from the corporation the amount of the accumulated profits and
surplus and other amounts due from it to the decedent.
Meanwhile, the County Court of McCracken County,
Kentucky, had granted letters of administration to Mrs.
Augusta H. Baker, the mother, and she as such administratrix filed a petition in the McCracken Circuit Court
for a settlement of the estate, making the widow and
Baker, Eccles & Company defendants. The widow did
not appear, and a judgment was rendered that Charles
Baker died a resident of McCracken County, Kentucky,
and that under the law of that State the mother and the
widow were each entitled to one-half of the surplus of the
personal estate. The corporation was directed to cancel
the 270 shares of stock issued to decedent and reissue

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

one-half of these to the widow, the other half to the
mother. This judgment has only historical importance,
since the Kentucky Court of Appeals in the present case
held it invalid as against the widow because of failure to
comply with the local law respecting notice to her.
In June, 1913, the widow, individually and as administratrix of Charles Baker, began a suit in equity in the McCracken Circuit Court, which resulted in the judgment
now under review. Baker, Eccles & Company was made
defendant. The widow's petition, after setting up the
orders and judgments of the Tennessee courts and alleging
her sole ownership of the personal estate of the deceased
.byvirtue thereof, prayed that the corporation be required
to transfer to her individually the 270 shares of stock
adjudged to her by the Tennessee chancery decree, and
also prayed judgment for $11,429.17, the alleged indebtedness due from the corporation to her husband at the time
of his death. Baker, Eccles & Company filed an answer
putting in issue all the averments of the petition. Mrs.
Augusta H. Baker, the mother, came' into the suit by an
intervening petition, in which she averred that Charles
Baker died a resident of the State of Kentucky, and that
under the laws of that State she was entitled to one-half of
the shares of stock and of the debt sued for, invoking the
McCracken Circuit Court judgment as an adjudication
to that effect.. She further put in issue the validity of
the orders and judgments in both the Tennessee courts,
averring that so far as they determined that Charles Baker
died a resident of that State and that his widow was entitled to the whole of his personalty after payment of his
debts, they were void, because neither of the Tennessee
courts had jurisdiction to make such orders or-judgments.
The pleadings having been made up, evidence was taken
on .the issue of fact as to the domicile of Charles Baker
at the time of his death. Upon this evidence, the records
of the judicial proceedings above mentioned, and a show-

13AKER v. BAKER, ECCLES & COMPANY.
242 U.'S.

399

Opinion of the Court.

ing of the pertinent Tennessee law, the case was submitted for hearing, and it was adjudged that the widow's
petition be dismissed. The widow appealed to the Kentucky Court of Appeals, and that court, having determined the judgment of the McCracken Circuit Court in
the mother's administration suit to be invalid as against
the widow, held that the judgments of both Tennessee
courts were invalid as against the mother because entered
without process of law as against her; and then, passing
upon the question of fact as to the domicile of Charles
Baker; found upon the evidence that he was domiciled in
the State of Kentucky and his personalty was distributable
according to the laws of that State, and affirmed the judgment, with a modification directing the lower court to
enter a judgment that Charles Baker died a resident of
Kentucky, that his mother and his widow were each entitled to one-half of his personal estate situate in Kentucky
at the time of his death after the payment of his debts,
that Baker, Eccles & Company should cancel all certificates of stock issued to Charles Baker, and reissue onehalf of these to the widow and the other half to the mother,
and that the lower court embody in the judgment such
other matters as would, after the payment of debts,
distribute equally between the widow and the mother all
other personal estate situate in Kentucky of which Charles
Baker died possessed. 162 Kentucky, 683. To review
this judgment upon the federal question, the widow
brings the case here upon writ of error.
No question is made by defendants in error but that the
Tennessee courts had general jurisdiction over the subjectmatter, nor that the proceedings were in conformity with
the Tennessee statutes respecting practice. The sole
question is whether they were entitled uader the Constitution of the United States and the act of Congress to recognition in the ourts of Kentucky as adjudicating adversely
the mother's asserted right to share as distributee in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

personal property situate in Kentucky, or as conclusively
determining the fact of the domicile of the decedent as
affecting that right, in view of the failure of the Tennessee
courts to acquire jurisdiction over her person or over the
corporation, Baker, Eccles & Company.
It is the fundamental contention of plaintiff in error
that the personal estate of an intestate decedent is a legal
unit, having its situs at the owner's domicile, that the title
to the whole of it, wherever situate, is vested in the duly
qualified domiciliary administrator, and not in the distributees, and that its distribution is governed by the
law of the domicile of the deceased owner. Wilkin& v.
Ellett, 9 Wall. 740; 108 U. S. 256. Conceding that such
is the general rule of law, it is so not because of any provision of the Federal Constitution, but only because the
several States, or most of them, have adopted it from the
common law into their respective systems. And the
question remains, How is the fact of decedent's domicile
to be judicially ascertained as a step in determining what
law is to govern the distribution? Obviously, if fundamental principles of justice are to be observed, the ascertainment must be according to due process of law, that is,
either by a proceeding in rem in a court having control of
the estate, or by a proceeding in personam after service
of process upon the parties to be affected by the judgment.
We have no concern with the effect of the Tennessee
judgments upon the distribution of so much of decedent's
personalty as was situate within that State. The present
action affects only the ownership of shares of stock in a
Kentucky corporation having no situs outside of its own
State so far as appears, and a claim of indebtedness against
the same corporation. For the purpose of founding administration, it is commonly held that simple contract
debts are assets at the domicile of the debtor, even where a
bill of exchange or promissory note has been given as
evidence. Wyman v. Halstead, 109 U. S. 654, 656. The

BAKER v. BAKER, ECCLES & COMPANY.
242 U. S.

401

Opinion of the Court.

State of the debtor's domicile may impose a succession tax.
Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S. 189, 205. It is equally
clear that the State which has created a corporation has
such control over the transfer of its shares of stock that it
may administer upon the shares of a deceased owner and
tax the succession. See Matter of Bronson, 150 N. Y. 1,
9; Matter of Fitch, 160 N. Y. 87, 90; Greves v. Shaw, 173
Massachusetts, 205, 208; Kingsbury v. Chapin, 196 Massachusetts, 533, 535; Dixon v. Russell, 79 N. J. L. 490, 492;
Hopper v. Edwards, 88 N. J. L. 471; People v. Griffith, 245
Illinois, 532. The rule generally adopted throughout the
States is that an administrator appointed in one State
has no power virtute officii over property in another. No
State need allow property of a decedent to be taken
without its borders until debts due to its own citizens
have been satisfied; and there is nothing in the Constitution of the United States aside from the full faith and credit
clause to prevent a State from giving a like protection to
its own citizens or residents who are interested in the surplus after payments of debts. All of which goes to show,
what plaintiff in error in effect acknowledged when she
brought her present action in a Kentucky court, that the
Tennessee judgments had no effect in rem upon the Kentucky assets now in controversy. She invokes the aid of
those judgments as judgments in personam. But it is now
too well settled to be open to further dispute that the
"full faith and credit" clause and the act of Congress
passed pursuant to it do not entitle a judgment in personam to extra-territorial effect if it be made to appear
that it was rendered without jurisdiction over the person
sought to be bound.
This rule beca. _e established long before the adoption
of the Fourteenth Amendment, as the result of applying
fundamental principles of justice and the rules of international law as they existed among the States at the inception of the Government. Notwithstanding that Mills v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

Duryee (1813), 7 Cranch, 481, 484,-where) as the opinion
shows, the defendant had full notice of thQ suit, was arrested, and gave bail,-was by some courts interpreted
as holding that irrespective of such notice the act of Congress required a judgment under all circumstances to
receive the same faith and credit in every other State as
it had in the State of its origin (Field v. Gibbs [1815], Pet.
C. C. 155, 158; Fed. Cas. No. 4766, 9 Fed. Cas. 15, 16;
Commonwealth v. Green [1822], 17 Massachusetts, 515,
546), the view soon came to prevail in the state courts
that the case was not authority for so broad a proposition,
and that whenever a judgment of a state court was produced as evidence, the jurisdiction of the court rendering
it 1.ras open to inquiry, and if it appeared that the court
had no jurisdiction the judgment was entitled to no faith
or credit.1
Mr. Justice Story, who wrote the opinion in Mills v.
Duryee, in his treatise on the Conflict of the Laws, published in 1834 (ยง 609), declared that, the "full faith and
credit" clause and the act of Congress did not prevent an
inquiry into the jurisdiction of the court to pronounce
the judgment, and this view was adopted and made the
basis of decision by this court in D'Arcy v. Ketchum (1850),
11 Hgw. 165, which was followed by Thompson v. Whitman, 18 Wall. 457, 459, with a review of many cases.
During the same period, however, it occasionally was
1 Borden v. Fitch (1818), 15 Johns. (N. Y.) 121, 143, 144; Aldrich v.
Kinney (1822), 4 Conn. 380, 383; Hall v. Williams (1828), 6 Pick.
(Mass.) 232, 242-245; Miller v. Miller (1829), 1 Bail. (S. C.) 242, 248;
Hall v. Williams (1833), 10 Me. (1 Fairf.) 278, 287; Wernwag v. Pawling
(1833), 5 Gill & Johns. (Md.) 500, 507. See alsoPhelps v. Holker (1788),
1 Dall. 261, 264; Curtis v. Martin (1805), 2 N. J. L. (Pen.) 399, 405,
406e; Rogers v. Coleman (1808), 3 Ky. (Hard.) 413, 415; Kilburn v.
Woodworth (1809), 5 Johns. 37, 41; Fenton v. Garlick (1811), 8 Johns.
194,197; Shumway v. Stillman (1825, 1831), 4 Cow. 292, 294; 6 Wend.
447, 449, 453; Starbuck v. Murray (1830), 5 Wend. 148, 156; Bissell v.
Briggs (1813), 9 Mass. 462, 468; Whittier v. Wendell (1834), 7 N. H. 257.

BAKER v. BAKER, ECCLES & COMPANY.
242 U. S.

403

Opinion of the Court.

intimated, if not held, by some of the state courts, that a
personal judgment effective within the territory of the
State could be rendered against a non-resident defendant
who did not appear and submit himself to the jurisdiction,
provided notice of the suit had been served upon him iri
the State of his residence, or had been published in the
State within which the court was situate, pursuant to the
provisions of a local statute. See Smith v. Colloty, 69
N. J. L. 365, 371. As was said by Mr. Justice Field, speaking for this court in Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S.714, 732,
it is difficult to see how such a judgment could legitimately
have force even within the State. But until the adoption
of the Fourteenth Amendment (1868) this remained a
question of state law; the effect of the "due process"
clause of that Amendment being, as was held in the case
just mentioned, to establish it as the law for all the States
that a judgment rendered against a non-resident who had
neither been served with process nor appeared in the suit
was devoid of validity within as well as without the territory of the State whose court had rendered it, and to make
the assertion of its invalidity a matter of federal right.
The fundamental requisite of due process of law in
judicial proceedings is the opportunity to be heard. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Schmidt, 177 U. S.230, 236;
Simon v. Craft, 182 U. S. 427, 436; Grannis v. Ordean,
234 U. S.385, 394. To hold one bound by the judgment
who has not had such opportunity is contrary to the first
principles of justice. And to assume that a party resident
beyond the confines of a State is required to come within
its borders and submit his personal controversy to its
tribunals upon receiving notice of the suit at the place of
his residence is a futile attempt to extend the authority
and control of a State beyond its own territory.
.So far as the case for plaintiff in error depends upon the
adjudication of domicile by the County Court of Hardin
County, Tennessee, for the mere purpose of appointing

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

an adminiStratrix, it is controlled by Thormann v. Frame,
.176 U. S. 350, and Overby v. Gordon, 177 U. S. 214, 227.
But, it is pointed out, in this case the county court went
beyond the bare appointment of an administratrix, and
proceeded to a settlement and distribution of the estate.
Moreover, plaintiff in error relies not merely upon this
judgment, but upon the decree in the chancery court of
the same county, which in form specifically determined
her exclusive right to the Kentucky personalty. It results, however, from what we have already said that this
right could not be conclusively established by any Tennessee court as against a resident of Kentucky who was
not served with process and did not appear therein, and
that the Kentucky courts did not go counter to the Federal
Constitution and the act of Congress in refusing to give
faith and credit to the Tennessee judgments.
In many forms, and with much emphasis, the plaintiff
in error presses the argument ab inconvenienti. Starting
from the proposition that the entire personalty of an intestate decedent wherever in fact located is a unit, having
its legal situs at the bwner's domicile, and that its distribution ought to be in accordance with the law of that domicile, it is argued: How is it possible to judicially determine
that domicile under the theory of the Kentucky Court of
Appeals in the case of an intestate entitled to personalty
in several States having different laws of distribution, and
with parties claiming to be distributees residing in different jurisdictions? Assuming a lawful grant of administration in each State wherein part of the personalty is
located and some of the possible distributees reside, how,
it is asked, is any one of these administrators, or any one
of the claimants of a share in the whole estate, to have
the place of the intestate's domicile settled authoritatively
and the lawful distributees ascertained? The answer is
clear: Unless all possible distributees can be brought
within the jurisdiction of a single court having authority

NEWARK NATURAL GAS & FUEL CO. v. NEWARK. 405
242 U.'S.

Syllabus.

to pass upon the subject-matter, either by service of
process or by their voluntary appearance, it must in
many cases be impossible to have a single controlling
decision upon the question. In some cases, the ideal distribution of the entire personal estate as a unit may thus
be interfered with; but whatever inconvenience may result
is a necessary incident of the operation of the fundamental
rule that a court of justice may not determine the personal
rights of parties without giving them an opportunity to
be heard.
Judgment agrmed.

NEWARK NATURAL GAS & FUEL COMPANY v.
CITY OF NEWARK, OHIO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 232. Argued December 4, 1916.-Decided January 8, 1917.
A city ordinance fixing the maximum rate chargeable by a gas company will not be adjudged confiscatory if at the time of the judicial
inquiry the net profits derivable under the ordinance will give a
fair return upon the then value of the company's property.
Plaintiff, a gas distributing company, whose rates were fixed by an
ordinance, purchased its gas under a contract, which measured the
vendor's compensation by a percentage of plaintiff's gross receipts.
The contract antedated the ordinance and had several years to run
.when suit was commenced. Plaintiff contended that under the
ordinance rate the contract was no longer profitable to its vendor.
Held, that the effect of the ordinance upon the constitutional rights
of the vendor.was immaterial to plaintiff's case..
The contract expired before the evidence ,was closed. Held, that, for
the purposes of this case, plaintiff not having shown what it paid
afterwards, the contract might be assumed to measure plaintiff's
probable expense for gas during the life of the ordinance.
92 Ohio St. 393, affirmed.

