434

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

242 U. S.

sulted in unfortunate delay and needless consumption of
time.
During the last term one hundred fifty-four petitions for
certiorari were presented and acted upon. Because of
recent legislation-Act of September 6, 1916, c. 448, 39
Stat. 726-their number hereafter may greatly increase.
Such petitions go first to every member of the court for
examination, and are then separately considered in conference. This duty must be promptly discharged. We are
not aided by oral arguments and necessarily rely in an
especial way upon petitions, replies and supporting
briefs. Unless these are carefully prepared, contain
appropriate references to the record and present with
studied accuracy, brevity and clearness whatever is essential
to ready and adequate understanding of points requiring
our attention, the rights of interested parties may be
prejudiced and, the court will be impeded in its efforts
properly to dispose of the causes which constantly crowd
its docket.
Dismissed.

WILLIAMS, CHIEF, ET AL. v. CITY OF CHICAGO
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 128. Argued December 22, 1916.-Decided January 8,1917.

At the date of the Treaty of Greenville, August 3, 1795, 7 Stat. 49, the
right of the Pottawatomie Nation in lands on and near the shore of
Lake Michigan now in Illinois was no more than a right of occupation.
If the occupancy ever extended to lands formerly submerged in the
lake such as are the subject of this litigation, the. court notices his-

WILLIAMS v. CITY OF CHICAGO.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

torically that it was long ago abandoned and that for more than half a
century no pretense of such occupancy has been made by the tribe.
The treaty did no more than'confirm the tribal right of occupancy, and
when that was abandoned all interest of the tribe and its members
was terminated.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. J. G. Grossberg, witi whom Mr. W. W. DeArmond
was on the briefs, for appellants.
Mr. Chester E. Cleveland, with whom Mr. Samuel A.
Ettelson was on the brief, for the City of Chicago.
Mr. W. S. Horton, with whom Mr. Robert Redfield, Mr.
W. D. McKenzie and Mr. Francis O'Shaughnessy were on
the brief, for the Illinois Central Railroad Co. et al.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
court.
The claim set up in this cause is without merit and the
amended bill was properly dismissed, upon motion, for
want of equity.
Complainants are eight Pottawatomie Indians, members of the Pokagon Band and residents of Michigan.
They undertake to sue "on behalf of themselves and of all
members of the Pokagon Band of Pottawatomie Indians,
and of all other members of the Pottawatomie Nation of
Indians, if any are entitled to join herein with them, and
of all others, if any, who are entitled to join herein with
them."
Defendants are the City of Chicago and certain corporations now occupying valuable lands within the geographical limits of Illinois, which have been reclaimed from
Lake Michigan.
The bill proceeds upon this theoryThat from time immem9rial, on August 3, 1795 and

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the CourtC

242 U. S.

thereafter, the Pottawatomie Indians were the owners and
in possession as a sovereign nation, as their country, of
large tracts of land around and along the shores of Lake
Michigan, south of a line running from Milwaukee River,
Wisconsin, to Grand River, Michigan, and extending,
"east and west ,of said two points and including all of
Lake Michigan which is south of said line "-astretch of a
hundred miles.
That by the Treaty of Peace entered into at Greenville,
Ohio, August 3, 1795, the United States relinquished to
the Pottawatomie and other tribes their claims to Indian
lands westward of a designated line passing through the
State of Ohio and lying, "northward of the river Ohio,
eastward of the Mississippi, and westward and southward
of the Great Lakes and the waters uniting them, according
to the boundary line agreed on by the United States and
the king of Great-Britain, in the treaty of peace made
between them in the year of 1783."
That by later treaties the Pottawatomie Nation receded
to the United States all such lands up to the shores of
Lake Michigan, but those within the geographical limits
of Illinois which were formerly beneath the waters of Lake
Michigan, "whether reclaimed, artificially made, or now
or formerly submerged . . ...
have remained and still
are the property of these complainants . . . and

any attempts on the part of any persons, firms, and corporations to appropriate the same, or any part thereof were
and are in violation of said treaties and of the rights of
these complainants."
That in 1833, with the exception of the Pokagon Band,
in pursuance of a treaty with the United States, the
Pottawatomie Nation migrated west of the Mississippi
River leaving that band in possession, occupation, control
and sovereignty of so much of the nation's original country as remained unceded.
That the United States has refused to purchase the re-

WILLIAMS v. CITY OF CHICAGO.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

claimed lands and consequently complainants are at
liberty to occupy, sell, lease, or dispose of the same as
their own in fee simple.
The bill prays that defendants be enjoined from occupying or building upon the specified land or from asserting
any claim, title, or interest therein; that they be required
to pay a reasonable compensation for its use; and that the
complainants' title thereto be quieted; established and
confirmed.
The only possible immemorial right which the Pottawatomie Nation had in the country claimed as their own in
1795 was that of occupancy. Johnson v. McIntosh, 8
Wheat. 543. If in any view it ever held possession of the
property here in question we know historically that this
was abandoned long ago and that fdr more than a half
century it has not even pretended to occupy either the
shores or waters of Lake Michigan within the confines of
Illinois.
By the Treaty of Greenville the United States stipulated with the Pottawatomies and other Indians that
generally in respect of a large territory westward of a line
passing through Ohio, -'The Indian tribes who have a
right to those lands , are quietly to enjoy them, hunting,,
planting, and dwelling thereon so long as they please,
without any molestation from the United States; but when
those tribes, or any of them, shall be disposed to sell their
lands, or any part of them, they are to be sold only to the
United States; and untill such sale, the United States will
protectall the said Indian tribes in the quiet enjoyment of
their lands against all citizens of the United States, and
against all other white persons who intrude upon the
same." We think it entirely clear that this treaty did not
convey a fee simple title to the Indians; that under it no
tribe could claim more than the right of continued occupancy; and that when this was abandoned all legal right
or interest which both tribe and its members had in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

242 U. S.

territory came to an end. Johnson v. McIntosh, 8 Wheat.
543, 584, 586, 588; Mitchel v. United States, 9 Pet. 711,
745 ' United States v. Cook, 19 Wall. 591, 592; Beecher v.
Wetherby, 95 U. S. 517, 525.
It is unnecessary to consider other reasons suggested by
counsel in support of the decree below.
Affirmed.

DEAN v. DAVIS, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF
JONES, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 70.

Argued November 6, 7, 1916.-Decided January 8, 1917.

A transfer of property by an insolvent, made to secure a contemporaneous loan of money which the lender advances, and the insolvent
obtains and uses, for the discharge of a preexisting debt of the
insolvent to a third party, in which the lender has no interest, is not a
preference of the lender within ยง 60b of the Bankruptcy Act, as
amended February 5, 1903, 32 Stat. 797, 800.
A transfer, the intent or obviously necessary effect of which is to deprive creditors of the benefits sought to be secured by the Bankruptcy Act, "hinders, delays, or defrauds creditors" within the
meaning of ยง 67e.
An insolvent borrowed money of a relative and secured it by a contemporaneous mortgage of all his property, which was recorded.
The money was sought, advanced and used to satisfy one of his preexisting debts and thus cnable him to escape a criminal prosecution. Mortgagee and insolvent both knew of the insolvency, and
the circumstances were such that both must, have anticipated
the suspension of business and bankruptcy which followed the
recording of the mortgage. Held, that these facts warranted the
District Court and Circuit Court of Appeals in concluding that the
ins6lvent intended to defraud his creditors within the meaning of
ยง 67e and that the mortgagee was not a purchaser or lienor in good

