GASQUET v. LAPEYRE.
242 U. S.

Syllabus.

that Reynolds succeeded to the rights of Blassingame and
that Hill took nothing by his purchase from the Campbells, made after Blassingame had been in possession almost four years, because they were then without any
interest in the lands or the improvements.
But it is urged that §§ 19 to 21 of the supplemental
agreement set forth in the Act of July 1, 1902, supra, permitted excessive enclosures or holdings to be reduced or
corrected at any time within ninety days after its final
ratification, which was on September 25, 1902, when
Blassingame had been in undisturbed possession for considerably more than three years. Upon this point the
Secretary of the Interior was of opinion that the agreement of 1902 "was certainly not intended to permit Indian
citizens to revive and reassert claims long dormant, after
others had entered into possession of and highly improved
the lands." We concur in that view.
What we have said sufficiently covers the rulings of the
Secretary of the Interior upon the questions of law which
were material to the contest in hand. Criticism is made
of some observations in his opinion upon other questions,
but they need not be noticed here.
Judgment affirmed.

GASQUET v. LAPEYRE ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.

No. 116.

Argued November 16, 1916.-Decided January 8, 1917.

The provision in § 9 of Article I of the Constitution guaranteeing the
privilege of habeas corpus is not a limitation upon state action.
A decision of a state Supreme Court, involving only the construction
of the state constitution and statutes respecting thc jurisdiction of

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

state courts, can raise no question under the due process or equal
protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment.
To invoke the full faith and credit clause and the act of Congress passed
to carry it into effect, Article IV, § 1; Rev. Stats., § 905, on behalf
of a judgment of one State in a court of another, it is necessary by
allegation or proof, or in some other recognized mode, to bring to
the attention of that court the law or usage which defines the effect
of the judgment in the State of its rendition.
Assignments of error contrary to the foregoing propositions are frivolous.
Writ of error to review 136 Louisiana, 957, dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. William Winans Wall, with whom Mr. J. C. Gilmore, Mr. Thos. Gilmore and Mr. Edward N. Pugh were
on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. George Denegre, Mr. Victor Leovy and Mr. Henry
H. Chaffe for defendants in error, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of'

the court.
In a proceeding against the plaintiff in error, wherein
he was fully heard, the civil district court of the parish of
his residence and domicile pronounced a judgment of interdiction against him. He appealed to the Supreme Court
of the State, which affirmed the judgment (136 Louisiana,
957), and thereafter he sued out this writ of error. Our
jurisdiction is challenged by a motion to dismiss.
There are three assignments of error, and the facts
essential to an understanding of two of them are these:
After the judgment of interdiction and before -the hearing
upon the appeal the plaintiff in error, who was in custody
under an order of the criminal district court of the parish
committing him to an asylum as a dangerous insane
person, secured his release from such custody through an

GASQUET v. LAPEYRE.
242 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

original proceeding in habeas corpus in the court of appeal
of the parish, which adjudged that he had recovered his
sanity. He then called the attention of the Supreme Court
to this judgment and insisted that it was decisive of his
sanity at a time subsequent to the judgment of interdiction and was res judicata of the issue presented on the
appeal. But the Supreme Court held that under the state
constitution and statutes the court of appeal was without
jurisdiction and therefore its judgment was no.t res judicata. In the assignments of error it is said of this ruling,
first that it practically suspended the privilege of the writ
of habeas corpus contrary to § 9 of Article I of the Constitution of the United States, and, second, that it denied the
plaintiff in error the due process and equal protection
guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment, in that it did
not give proper effect to certain provisions of the constitution and statutes of the State bearing upon the jurisdiction of the court of appeal and the Supreme Court. Both
claims, in so far as the Federal Constitution is concerned,
are so obviously ill founded and so certainly foreclosed by
prior decisions that they afford no basis for invoking our
jurisdiction. Section 9 of Article I, as has long been settled, is not restrictive of state, but only of national, action.
Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113, 135; Morgan v. Louisiana,
118 U. S. 455, 467; Johnson v. Chicago & Pacific Elevator
Co., 119 U. S. 388, 400. This is also true of the Fifth
Amendment. Barron v. Baltimore, 7 Pet. 243; Booth v.
Indiana, 237 U. S. 391, 394; Hunter v. Pittsburgh, 207
U. S. 161, 176. And, as our decisions show, there is
nothing in the clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment
guaranteeing due process and equal protection which converts an issue respecting the jurisdiction of a state court
under the constitution and statutes of the State into anything other than a question of state law, the decision of
which by the state court of last resort is binding upon this
court. Iowa Central Ry. Co. v. Iowa, 160 U. S. 389, 393;

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

Castillo v. McConnico, 168 U. S. 674, 683; Rawlins v.
Georgia, 201 U. S. 638; Burt v. Smith, 203 U. S. 129, 135;
Standard Oil Co. v. Missouri, 224 U. S. 270, 280-281; de
Bearn.V. Safe Deposit Co.,, 233 U. S. 24, 34; McDonald v.
Oregon R. R. & Navigation Co., ibid., 665, 669-670; Missouri v. Lewis, 101 U. S. 22, 30.
The facts bearing upon the remaining assignment are
as follows: After the judgment of affirmance by the' Supreme Court and during the pendency of a petition for rehearing, the plaintiff in error, claiming that upon his release from custody by habeas corpus he had removed to,
and become a resident and citizen of, Shelby County,
Tennessee, petitioned the probate court of that county
for an inquisition respecting his sanity. The court entertained the petition and within a day or two rendered a
jtidgment thereon finding that the plaintiff in error had
become a resident and citizen of Tennessee, adjudging
that he was sane and able to control his person and property and declaring that any disability arising from the
proceedings in Louisiana was thereby removed. He then
brought the proceedings in Tennessee-all certified conformably to the law of Congress-to the attention of the
Louisiana Supreme Court by a motion wherein he insisted
that under the Constitution of the United States, Article IV, § 1, and the law passed by Congress to carry it into
effect, Rev. Stats., § 905, the judgment in Tennessee was
conclusive of his residence and citizenship in that State
and of his sanity and ability to care for his person and
property, and that in consequence the interdiction proceeding should be abated. But the motion was denied,
along with the petition for a rehearing, and in the assignments of error it is said that in denying the motion the
court declined to give the judgment in Tennessee the full
faith and credit required by the Constitution and the law
of Congress.
There are several reasons why this assignment affords

DICKSON v. LUCK LAND COMPANY.
242 U. S.

Syllabus.

no basis for a review here, but the statement of one will
suffice. What the Constitution and the congressional
enactment require is that a judgment of a court of one
State, if founded upon adequate jurisdiction of the parties
and subject-matter, shall be given the same faith and
credit in a court of another State that it has by law or
usage in the courts of the State of its rendition. This presupposes that the law or usage in the latter State will be
brdught to the attention of the court in the other State
by appropriate allegation and proof, or in some other
recognized mode; for the courts of one State are not presumed to know, and therefore not bound to take judicial
notice of, the laws or usage of another State. Hanley v.
Donoghue, 116 U. S. 1; Chicago & Alton Railroadv. Wiggins Ferry Co., 119 U. S. 615; Lloyd v. Matthews, 155 U. S.
222, 227; Western Indemnity Co. v. Rupp, 235 U. S. 261,
.275. Here the law or usage in Tennessee where the judgment was rendered was not in any way brought to the
attention of the Louisiana court, and therefore an essential step in invoking the full faith and credit clause was
omitted. In this situation the claim that the Louisiana
court refused to give effect to that clause is so devoid of
merit as to be frivolous.
Writ of error dismissed.

DICKSON v. LUCK LAND COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.
No. 600.

Submitted December 6, 1916.-Decided January 8, 1917.

Issuance of a fee simple patent for an allotment in the White Earth
Indian Reservation, Minnesota, under the clause of the Act of
March 1, 1907, c. 2285, 34 Stat. 1015, 1034, which declares that

