OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

ILLINOIS

1
242 U. S.

CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v.
PEERY.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.
No. 77.

Argued November 7, 8, 1916.-Decided December 18, 1916.

Plaintiff was a conductoT in charge of a train-service south and north
between two stations in. Kentucky, established chiefly because of
southbound traffic which was more certain than the northbound
and generally included freight bound beyond the State. The trips
south and back were, however, distinct, and all freight obtainable
was taken, either way. Having made the southward journey, carrying interstate freight, plaintiff was injured while returning with the
same engine, caboose and crew, and with local freight only, and while
writing his report for the round trip. Held, that the plaintiff was
not employed in interstate commerce when injured, and the case,
therefore, was not within the Federal Employers' Liability Act.
128 Minnesota, 119, reversed.
THE

case is,-tated in the opinion.

Mr. Blewett Lee, with whom Mr. W. S. Horton was on
the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Samuel A. Anderson for defendant in error, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action brought under the Federal Employers'
Liability Act to recover for personal injuries caused by a
rear end collision in Kentucky. The Railroad Company
denied that the case was governed by the federal act,
contending that the train upon which the plaintiff was
moving was engaged in local business only, between two

ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. R. CO. v. PEERY.
242 U. S.

293

Opinion of the Court.

points within the State. The issue was important as affecting the rules of law to be applied. At a second trial
the judge intending to follow the previous decision of the
Supreme Court of the State, 123 Minnesota, 264, ruled
that the accident happened in interstate commerce and
that the act of Congress governed the case. The defendant excepted and assigned as error that the court determined the matter of fact instead of leaving it to the jury
in accordance with the intimation of the former decision,
123 Minnesota, 266, but the judgment was affirmed by
the Supreme Court of the State. 128 Minnesota, 119.
We are of opinion that the ruling was wrong, as, we
think, will be seen from a short statement of the facts.
The plaintiff was a freight conductor on the defendant's
road having his principal run from Paducah, south, to
Fulton, both in Kentucky, and the same day back from
Fulton, north, to Paducah. According to his testimony
he took back the engine, caboose and crew with which
he started and was allowed one hundred miles of mileage
in compensation for the trip out and back. The train out
generally and on this occasion had freight destined to beyond the limits of the State. That on the return depended
on what could be picked up, the engine and caboose sometimes coming back alone. The accident happened when
the engine was returning to Paducah, after having taken
up a switch engine from the Fulton yards seemingly in
need of repairs at the Paducah shops, and a pile driver
and outfit on three flat cars, and having in the rear behind
the last the plaintiff's caboose. The pile driver was
dropped on the way, at Mayfield, and the train thereafter
consisted of the two engines and the caboose. The plaintiff was sitting in the caboose making up a report of his
trip out and'back, when the collision occurred.
Of course the plaintiff treats the round trip as one, and
the return as merely the necessary complement of the
trip out. The conclusion is drawn that the plaintiff still

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

was engaged in interstate commerce because the train
out had cars destined to .Tennessee. But on the other
hand the trips out and back were distinct, in opposite
directions, with different trains. The plaintiff's journey
was confined wholly to Kentucky. Only the circumstance
that the southbound train from Paducah carried freight
destined to beyond Fulton caused him to be engaged in
interstate commerce while on that trip. On the return
when he was injured all the freight had domestic destinations. It is true that the greater certainty of getting traffic
going south probably was the chief reason for the establishment of the circuit; but they got what they could
coming back, generally a train or a part of a train. J,
seems to us extravagant to subordinate the northerly to
the southerly journey so completely that if on the latter
there happened to be a parcel destined beyond the State;
the conductor should be regarded as still engaged in commerce among the States when going from Fulton to
Paducah even though he had a full train devoted solely
to domestic commerce. For it must be remembered that
if the northerly movement is regarded as the incident of
the southerly, that subordination is independent of the
character of the commerce, and depends solely on the
fact that southerly moving business, no matter what,
induced establishing the route. Therefore it does not
matter that the interstate traffic moving south was greater
than, for purposes of illustration, we have supposed.
Judgment reversed.

