CRANE v. JOHNSON.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

CRANE v. JOHNSON, GOVERNOR OF THE STATE
QF CALIFORNIA, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 493.

Argued December. 12, 1916.-Decided January 8, 1917.

The distinction made in the law of. California '(Laws 1913, c. 354; as
amended by Laws 1915, c. 105), passed for the regulation of the
practice of medicine and other modes of healing, between treatment
employing prayer and religious faith only and a species of treatment
which, while reliant upon the creation of mental states and processes
in the patient, involves for its proper application special skill and
experience and ability to diagnose diseases-is not necessarily an
arbitrary distinction denying equal protection of the laws under the
Fourteenth Amefidment.
When a party assails a state law upon the ground that itviolates his
rights under the Fourteenth Amendment, the law will be considered
only in its application to his situation as revealed in the record, and
all uncertainties of fact will be resolved against the complainant
and in favor of the law.
233 Fed. Rep. 334, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Tom L. Johnston for appellant.
Mr. Robert M. Clarke and Mr. Thomas Lee Woolwine,
with whom Mr. U. S. Webb, Attorney General of the
State of California, and Mr. George E. Cryer were on the
briefs, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Appeal from an order denying an interlocutory injunc-

tion, three judges sitting.

The court took jurisdiction of

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

the action, citing Raich v. Truax, 219 Fed. Rep. 273, 283;
Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33; but denied the injunction on
the ground that the averments of the complaint did not
justify it.
Complainant is a drugless practitioner, he avers (we state
the facts averred narratively), and has practiced his pro-.
fession in the City and County of Los Angeles for the last
seven years and is dependent upon it for making a living.
He does not employ either medicine, drugs or surgery in
his practice, nor is there anything harmful in it to the individual or dangerous to society; but he does employ in
practice faith, hope, and the processes of mental suggestion
and mental adaptation.
Under a statute of the State that went into effect August 10, 1913, amended in 1915, a board of medical examiners was created which was empowered to prescribe
a course of study and examination for those practicing
medicille (using this word in a broad sense for convenience)
and to issue certificates of qualifications and licenses.
Three forms of certificates were required to be issued,
first, a certificate authorizing the holder thereof to use
drugs, or what are known as medicinal preparations, in
or upon human beings and to perform surgical operations,
which certificate shall be designated "physician and surgeon certificate." Second, a certificate authorizing an
opposite treatment to that which the first certificate authorized (we are using general descriptions), which certificate shall be designated "drugless practitioner certificate." Third, a certificate authorizing the holder to
practice chiropody. And the statute also provides for
the issuance of what it designates as a "reciprocity certificate." Any of these certificates, on being recorded in the
office of the county clerk, as provided in the act, shall constitute the holder thereof a duly licensed practitioner in
accordance with the provisions of his certificate.
Applicants must file with the board testimonials of good

CRANE v. JOHNSON.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

moral character and diplomas of a school or schools
and, in addition, each applicant for a "physician and
surgeon certificate" must show that he has attended
four courses of study, each to have been not less than
32 weeks' duration, with some other additions; and
each applicant *for a "drugless practitioner certificate"
must show that he has attended two courses of study,
each of such courses to have been of not less than 32 weeks'
duration, but not necessarily pursued continuously or consecutively; and at least ten months shall have intervened
between the beginning of any course and the beginning
of the preceding course; and the course in chiropody is to
be of not less than 39 weeks' duration consisting of not
less than 664 hours. There is a provision that, in lieu of a
diploma or diplomas and preliminary requirements in the
other courses, if the applicant can show to the board that
he has taken the courses required by the statute in a
school or schools approved by the board totaling not less
than 64 weeks' study of not less than 2,000 hours for a
"drugless practitioner certificate" or 128 weeks' study of
not less than 4,000 hours for a "physician and surgeon
certificate," he shall be admitted to examination for his
form of certificate.
The statute sets out the course of instruction which the
respective applicants must have pursued, giving the course
that is necessary for a "physician and surgeon certificate"
and the course for a "drugless practitioner certificate."
The descriptions are very elaborate and technical. The
statute also prescribes the manner of examination, states
the exemptions from its provisions, the penalties for its
violation, and for what conduct and upon what conditions
the certificates may be revoked. Among the latter is the
following:
"Ninth. The use, by the holder of a 'drugless practitioner certificate,' of drugs or what are known as medicinal preparations, in or upon any human being, or the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

severing or penetrating by the holder of said 'drugless
practitioner certificate' of the tissues of any human being
in the treatment of any disease, injury, deformity, or
other physical or mental condition of such human being,
excepting the severing of the umbilical cord."
By ยง 22 of the original act (unaffected by the Act of
1915) it is provided: "Nor shall this act be construed so
as to discriminate against any particular school of medicine or surgery, or any other treatment, nor to regulate,
prohibit or apply to, any kind of treatment by prayer,
nor to interfere in any way with the practice of religion."
It is alleged that the statute violates the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States,
especially the equal protection clause thereof, in that it
imposes greater burdens upon complainant than upon
others in the same calling and position. That it discriminates in favor of the, Christian Science drugless practitioner, distinguishes between the treatment of the sick
by prayer, the treatment of the sick by faith, mental suggestion and mental adaptation, and treatment by laying
on of bands, annoihting with Holy oil or other kindred
treatment.
Complainant does not employ prayer in the treatment
of disease and is, therefore, not exempt from examination
by the medical board, and is subject, therefore, to the
penalties of the act if he practices his profession for which
he has fitted himself by study and practice, and upon
which he is dependent and by reason of his age he is in
large measure unable to take up any new branch of work.
That defendants, appellees here, are threatening prosecutions under the act and he is without remedy at
law.
There is an allegation that the Supreme Court of the
State of California has decided that the statute is not
offensive to the Fourteenth Amendment, in habeas corpus
proceedings prosecuted by one Chow Juyan, who was

CRANE v. JOHNSON.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

convicted of practicing some form of Chinese healing
which was adjudged a violation of the act.
The allegations of the bill set forth complainant's particular grievance to be that the statute discriminates between forms of healing the sick by the use of prayer and
other drugless methods, and invoke the equal protection
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution
of the United States. In other words, he attacks the
classification of the statute as having no relation to the
purpose of the legislation. Of course, complainant is confined to the special discrimination against him; he cannot
get assistance from the discrimination, if any exist, against
other drugless practitioners. The case, therefore, is
brought to the short point of the distinction made between
his practice artd certain forms of practice, or, more specifically, between his practice of drugless healing and the
use of prayer.
The principle of decision needs no exposition and the
only question is whether it was competent for the State
to recognize a distinction in its legislation between drugless
healing as practiced by complainant and such healing by
prayer. That there is a distinction between his practice
and that of prayer, complainant himself, it seems to us,
has charged in his bill. He has not only charged that he
does not employ either medicine, drugs or surgery in his
practice but that he does employ faith, hope and the processes of mental suggestion and mental adaptation. These
processes he does not describe. Presumably they are different from healing by prayer, different from the treatment by Christian Science. But he alleges that for his
practice he has become "particularly fitted, . . . by
many years of study and practice therein." In other
words, the treatment is one in which skill is to be exercised and the skill can be enhanced by practice, and the
objects of the treatment are diseased human beings whose
condition is to be diagnosed. To treat a disease there

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

242 U. S.

mus* be an appreciation of it, a distinction between it
and other diseases, and special knowledge is therefore
required. And this was the determination of the State;
but it determined otherwise as to prayer, the use of which,
it decided, was a practice of religion. We cannot say that
the State's estimate of the practices and of their differences is arbitrary and therefore beyond the power of government. And this we should have to say to sustain the
contentions of complainant, and say besides, possibly
against the 'judgment of the State, that there was not
greater opportunity for deception in complainant's practice than in other forms of drugless healing.
Because of our very recent opinions we omit extended
reply to the argument of counsel and the cases cited by
hin, not only of the general scope of the police power of
the State but also of the distinctions which may be made
in classifying the objects of legislation. And for like
reason we do not review or comment upon the cases cited
in opposition to complainant's contentions.
It is to be observed that the order of the court was put
upon the narrow giound of the averments of the complaint, no opinion beyond such averments being expressed.
Decree affirmed.

McNAUGHTON v. JOHNSON, GOVERNOR OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 494.

Argued December 12, 1916.-Decided January 8, 1917.

The practice of fitting glasses to the human eye, and treating ocular
inflammation, without the use of drugs' or surgery, is subject to
supervision and regulation under the state police power.

