KANSAS CITY &c. R. R. CO. v. STILES.
242 U. S.

111

Syllabus.

It may be true that Congress has failed to give an appellate review in proceedings in bankruptcy from the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia from a decree
with reference to an adjudication in bankruptcy, but, as
observed in the Tefft, Weller & Company Case, that does
not give this court authority to assume jurisdiction not
given to it by law.
It follows that the appeal and writ of error must be
dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
Dismissed.

KANSAS CITY, MEMPHIS & BIRMINGHAM
RAILROAD COMPANY v. STILES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA.

No. 212.

Submitted October 17, 1916.-Decided December 4, 1916.

Three corporations, formed, and .operating railways, in Alabama,
Tennessee and Mississippi, respectively, consolidated themselves
under the laws of each of those States. The consolidated company
succeeded to all the property of the constituents and issued its
shares in lieu of theirs. As construed by the court below, the law
of Alabama, under which the consolidation was there effected, constituted the new company a d9mestic corporation of that State;
and, treating it as such, the State has imposed a franchise tax, not'
unreasonable in amount, based upon its entire paid-up capitalization.
Held: (1) That, subject to the limitations of the Federal Constitution,
the existence and status of the consolidated corporation in Alabama
were dependent on the Alabama laws.
(2) That the tax being a franchise tax, imposed equally upon all corporations of the State, consolidated or otherwise, and based in each
instance on the entire paid-up capitalization, no arbitrary classification emerges either (a) because the consolidated corporation has,
and a purely intrastate corporation might not have, property outside
of the State; or (b) because foreign corporations are taxed only on

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

the basis of their property within the State. Southern Railway Co.
v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400, distinguished.
A State may tax foreign corporations for the privilege of doing business
within her limits at a different rate than that which she applies to
her own corporations in taxing the franchises by which she creates
them.
While a State may not tax property beyond her borders, she may
measure a franchise tax within her authority by capital stock which
stands in part for property beyond her taxing power. Kansas City
&c. Railway Co. v. Kansas, 240 U. S. 227, applied; and Western
Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1, distinguished.
Whether a tax is a burden on interstate commerce depends on the
nature of the tax; a tax which in kind is within the state authority
may properly be measured by capital which in part is used for
interstate commerce, where the circumstances do not indicate a
purpose to burden such commerce or that such will be the necessary
effect.
182 Alabama, 138, affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Forney Johnston and Mr. W. F. Evans for plaintiff

in error.
Mr. William L. Martin, Attorney General of the State of
Alabama, and Mr. Lawrence E. Brown, Assistant Attorney

General of the State of Alabama, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

The Kansas City, Memphis & Birmingham Railroad
Company, plaintiff in error herein (hereinafter called the
Railroad Company), filed its complaint, in the City Court

of Birmingh~am, Alabama, against James P. Stiles, Probate
Judge of Jefferson County, Alabama, whereby it sought
to recover sundry sums of money, aggregating $2,434.40,

paid to Stiles by virtue of the provisions of § 12 of an act
of the Alabama Legislature, entitled "An Act to further
provide for the revenues of the State of Alabama." By

this act it is provided that corporations organized under

KANSAS CITY &c. R. R. CO. v. STILES.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the laws of Alabama shall pay an annual franchise tax
as follows: where the paid-up capital stock doesnot exceed
$50,000, one dollar per thousand of such paid-up capital
stock; where paid-up capital stock is more than $50,000
and up to $1,000,000, one dollar per thousand on the first
$50,000, and fifty cents for eachthousand of the remainder;
where paid-up capital stock is more than $1,000,000 and
up to $5,000,000, one dollar per thousand on the first
$50,000, and fifty cents per thousand for the next $950,000,
and twenty-five cents per thousand for the remainder;
where the paid-up capital stock exceeds $5,000,000, one
dollar per thousand on the first $50,000, fifty cents per
thousand on the next $950,000, twenty-five cents per
thousand on the next $4,000,000, and ten cents per thousand on the remainder; and that corporations organized
under the laws of any other State and doing business within
the State of Alabama shall pay annually franchise tax as
above, based, however, on the actual amount of capital
employed in the State of Alabama. The act also contains
provisions not relevant to this action and not necessary
to be set forth here.
The Railroad Company is a consolidated corporation,
existing by virtue of the consolidation, under concurrent
acts of the States of Tennessee, Mississippi, and Alabama,
of three independent and distinct railroad corporations
created by and formerly operating solely within the respective States named. As regards this consolidation,
plaintiff avers"that it is a consolidated corporation, made up and
consisting of the consolidation of three distinct and separate corporations, under the following circumstances:
A railroad corporation organized and existing solely under
the laws of the State of Tennessee, acquired, constructed,
owned and operated all of that part of plaintiff's line and
railway situated within the State of Tennessee; a separate
and distinct railroad corporation, organized and existing

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

shlely under the laws of the State of Mississippi, acquired,
constructed, owned and operated all that part of plaintiff's
line and railway situated within the State of Mississippi;
and a separate and distinct railroad corporation, organized
and existing solely under the laws of the State of Alabama,
acquired, constructed, owned and operated all that part
of plaintiff's line and railway situated within the State of
Alabama. Plaintiff avers that said separate railroad corporations, being desirous of operating said distinct and
separately owned properties as a single system, for the
tconduct of the business of a common carrier in interstate
commerce, as well as the continuation of intrastate commerce within said several States, before the period mentioned or involved herein, and by virtue of concurrent or
contemporaneous laws or special acts of said several States,
including the States of Tennessee and Mississippi, as
well as the State of Alabama, consolidated themselves
into a corporation known as Kansas City, Memphis &
Birmingham Railroad Company, the plaintiff herein, and,
in pursuance of the laws of each of said States, duly filed
therein agreements and instruments consolidating said
companies, and complying with the laws of each of said
States authorizing the same. And plaintiff avers that by
said consolidation the shares of stock of said several companies were surrendered by the holders thereof and in lieu
thereof there were issued the shares of stock of said consolidated company, the plaintiff herein-being the capital
stock of plaintiff issued and outstanding as aforesaid.
Plaintiff further avers that the capital stock on which said
franchise tax was estimated and exacted as aforesaid was
and is the capital stock issued and outstanding under
the circumstances aforesaid, although less than one-half
thereof was issued in lieu of the stock of or represents the
property or assets or business of the Alabama corporation
which became a constituent of the plaintiff by consolidation as aforesaid."

KANSAS CITY &c. R. R. CO. v. STILES.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The entire capital stock of the consolidated Railroad
Company amounted to $5,976,000.00, and it was upon
this entire amount that the Company was assessed. By
this action the Railroad Company seeks to recover the
full amount of the franchise tax exacted upon that basis,
and contends that in any event it should have been assessed only upon that part of the capital employed by it
in the State of Alabama.
The Railroad Company averred, if it was required to
pay the franchise tax in question upon its entire capital,
that it would be paying another and different rate of taxation, or another and different amount of franchise tax,
from that which is required of like corporations doing
business in Alabama, contrary to the provision of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution that
no State shall deny to any person within its jurisdiction
the equal protection of its laws; that the enforcement of
the act by subjecting to its operation the Railroad Company's property in other States constituted a taking of
its property without due process of law; and that said
act imposed a direct burden upon interstate commerce in
requiring it to pay, in addition to all other fees and taxes
provided by law, a tax upon its capital stock for the right
and privilege of transacting and carrying on its interstate
business as a common carrier, in violation of clause three
of § 8, Article I of the Federal Constitution.
A demurrer was filed to this complaint, which demurrer
was sustained. Upon appeal to the Supreme Court of
Alabama, this judgment was affirmed, 182 Alabama, 138,
and a writ of error brings the action tothis court.
The consolidated Company was formed, so far as the
State of Alabama is concerned, under § 1583 of the Alabama Code of 1887, which provides in substance, as follows: That whenever the lines of any two or more railroads
chartered under the laws of that or any other State, which,
when completed, may admit the passage of burden or

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

passenger cars over any two or more of such roads continuously without break or interruption, such companies
are authorized before or after completion to consolidate
themselves into a single corporation, in the manner following: The directors of such corporations may enter into
an agreement, prescribing the terms and conditions
thereof, mode of carrying into effect, name, number of
directors, etc., and such new corporation shall possess all.
the powers, rights and franchises conferred upon the two
or more corporations, and shall be subject to all the restrictions, and perform all the duties imposed by such
statute. Provision is also made for ratification of such
consolidation by the stockholders, after which ratification
the agreement is deemed completed, as to each corporation.
It is also provided that "every such new corporation so
formed shall keep an office in the State of Alabama, and
be in all respects subject to the.laws of the State of Alabama as a domestic corporation." The corporation is to
be deemed consolidated when a copy of the agreement is
filed with the Secretary of State, and after the election
of the first board of'directors the property and franchises
of each corporation shall be vested in the new corporation,
and it shall be subject to the liabilities of its integral parts,
as if such debts had been incurred by it.
It will be noted that this statute, which is a grant of
corporate rights from the State of Alabama to the consolidated company, contains the express provision that
such company shall in all respects be subject to the laws
of the State of Alabama as a domestic corporation. Applying §12 of the statute, the Alabama Supreme Court
has held that the Railroad Company is a corporation organized under the laws of that State, and as such subject
to the franchise tax imposed by that section of the statute.
The federal questions (which are alone within the jurisdiction of this court) are to be determined upon this construction of the state statute by its highest court.

KANSAS CITY, &c. R. R. CO. v. STILES.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

When the companies comprised in this consolidation
sought to avail themselves of the laws of Alabama, they
were asking a privilege and right which, subject to the
limitations of the Federal Constitution, was within the
authority of the State. This principle was succinctly
stated in Ashley'v. Ryan, 153 U. S.436, 442:
"Nor is the question at issue affected by the fact that
some of the constituent elements which entered into the
consolidated company -were corporations owning and
operating property in -another State. The power of corporations of other States to become corporations, or to
constitute themselves a consolidated corporation under
the Ohio statutes, and thus avail of the rights given
thereby, is as completely dependent on the will of that
State as is the power of its individual citizens to become a
corporate. body; or the power of corporations of its own
creation t-6 donsolidate under its laws. Bank of Augusta
v. Earle, 13 Pet. 519; Lafayette Insurance Co. v. French,
18 How. 404; Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168, 181."
This doctrine has been affirmed since. Louisville &
Nashville Railroad Co. v. Kentucky, 161 U. S. 677, 703,
and previous cases in this court therein cited; Interstate
Railway Co. v. Massachusetts, 207 U. S.79, 84.
The railroads comprising this consolidation entered
upon it with the Alabama statute before them and under
its conditions, and, subject to constitutional objections
as to its enforcement, they cannot be heard to complain
of the terms under which they voluntarily invoked and
received the grant of corporate existence from the State
of Alabama.
The specific objections based upon the Federal Constitution remain to be noticed. It is said that the Company
is deprived of the equal protection of the laws, this contention being based upon the fact that domestic corporations, operating only within the State, are required to pay
the tax upon property within the State, and foreign cor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

porations are taxed only upon the basis of property within
the State. To support this contention as to denial of equal
protection of the laws, the Company relies principally
upon the decision of this court in Southern Railway Company v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400. In that case, a foreign corporation, complying with the laws of Alabama, entered
upon business within the State, paid both license and property taxes imposed by the laws of the State, and when it
was attempted to impose upon it another tax for the
privilege of doing business in the State, a business in all
respects like that done by domestic corporations of a similar character who were not subjected to the additional tax
ccmplained of, it contended that it was denied equal
protection of the law, and this court so held.
That case is readily distinguishable from the one now
under consideration. Here the State imposes the franchise
tax equally upon all of its corporations, consolidated and
otherwise. The fact that a wholly intrastate corporation
may own no property outside of the State while the consolidated Company does presents no case of arbitrary
classification. In both cases, the franchise tax is based
upon a percentage of the capital stock. There is no denial
of equal protection of the laws because a State may impose a different rate of taxation upon a foreign corporation
for the privilege of doing business within the State than
it applies to its own corporations upon the franchise which
the State grants in creating them.
It is urged that this tax is void because it undertakes to
tax property beyond the jurisdiction of the State, and
imposes a direct burden upon interstate commerce. Objections of this character were so recently discussed, and
the previous cases in this court considered, in Kansas City
&c. Railway Co. v. Kansas, 240 U. S. 227, that it would
be superfluous to undertake extended discussion of the
subject now. In that case, after a full review of the previous decisions in this court,, it was held that each case

KANSAS CITY &c. R. R. CO. v. STILES.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

must depend upon its own circumstances, and that while
the State could not tax property beyond its borders, it
might measure a tax within its authority by capital stock
which in part represented property without the taxing
power of the State. As to the objection based upon the
due process clause of the Constitution, we think that
principle cbntioling here. There is no attempt in this
case to levy a property tax; a franchise tax within
the authority of the State is in part measured by the
capital stock representing property owned in other
States.
The tax is not of the character condemned in Western
Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1, and kindred
cases. In the latter case, a tax of large amount was imposed upon a foreign corporation engaged in interstate
commerce for the privilege of doing local business within
the State. Under the circumstances therein disclosed
and the character of the business involved, this court held
that the statute was in substance an attempt to tax the
right to do interstate business, and to tax property beyond
the confines of the State, and was therefore void. Here,
a franchise tax is levied upon a corporation consolidated
under the laws of the State by its own acceptance of that
law in incorporating under it.
So of the objection that the tax imposes a burden upon
interstate commerce, the test of validity recognized in
previous cases and repeated in Kansas City &c. Railway
Co. v. Kansas, supra, is the nature and character of the
tax imposed. The State may not regulate interstate commerce or impose burdens upon it; but it is authorized to
levy a tax within its authority, measured by capital in
part used in the conduct of such commerce, where the
circumstances aresuch as to indicate no purpose or necessary effect in the tax imposed to burden commerce of
that character. In the prts'ent case, the franchise tax is
imposed upon the capital stock of a: corporation consoli-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

242 U. S.

dated under the state law, and engaged in both interstate
and intrastate commerce.
We find nothing in the amount or character of the tax
which makes it a burden upon interstate commerce, and
so beyohd the authority of the State to impose. It results that the judgment of the Supreme Court of Alabama
must be
Affirmed.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY v.
SONMAN SHAFT COAL COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF

PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 10. Argued May 14, 1915; restored to docket for reargument June 14,
1915; reargued October 25, 1915.-Decided December 4, 1916.
The duty of a carrier to furnish cars for coal to be loaded at the mine
and forwarded promptly for delivery to purchasers in other States
is a duty in interstate commerce, notwithstanding the sale of the
coal is f. o. b. at the mine.
If no administrative question is involved, a claim for damages for
failure, upon reasonable request, to furnish to a shipper in interstate
commerce cars sufficient to meet his needs may be enforced in a
state as well as a federal court, and without preliminary finding by
the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Such remedy is preserved by § 22 of the Interstate Commerce Act.
The modes of redress provided by §§ 8 and 9 are not exclusive.
Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Puritan Coal Co., 237 U. S. 121.
Where relevant conditions of trade and transportation are normal, it
is the duty of the carrier, upon reasonable demand, to furnish a
shipper in interstate commerce sufficient cars to satisfy the actual
needs of his business. That duty, in this case, existed under the
common law until the date of the Hepburn Act, and continued thereafter under a provision of that act which, so far as concerns this case,
amounts to an adoption of the common law. Act of June 29, 1906,
§ 1, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584.

