OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

242 U. S.

mus* be an appreciation of it, a distinction between it
and other diseases, and special knowledge is therefore
required. And this was the determination of the State;
but it determined otherwise as to prayer, the use of which,
it decided, was a practice of religion. We cannot say that
the State's estimate of the practices and of their differences is arbitrary and therefore beyond the power of government. And this we should have to say to sustain the
contentions of complainant, and say besides, possibly
against the 'judgment of the State, that there was not
greater opportunity for deception in complainant's practice than in other forms of drugless healing.
Because of our very recent opinions we omit extended
reply to the argument of counsel and the cases cited by
hin, not only of the general scope of the police power of
the State but also of the distinctions which may be made
in classifying the objects of legislation. And for like
reason we do not review or comment upon the cases cited
in opposition to complainant's contentions.
It is to be observed that the order of the court was put
upon the narrow giound of the averments of the complaint, no opinion beyond such averments being expressed.
Decree affirmed.

McNAUGHTON v. JOHNSON, GOVERNOR OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 494.

Argued December 12, 1916.-Decided January 8, 1917.

The practice of fitting glasses to the human eye, and treating ocular
inflammation, without the use of drugs' or surgery, is subject to
supervision and regulation under the state police power.

McNAUGHTON v. JOHNSON.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

No discrimination violative of the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment is deducible from the fact that a state law (Laws
of California, 1913, c. 598i requiring persons treating inflammation
of the eye and fitting glasses without the use of drugs to be licensed
under the name of "optometrists" and subjecting their practice to
regulation excepts persons who employ drugs in their practice, it appearing that the latter, through another statute, are subject to similar
supervision and regulation under another name.
233 Fed. Rep. 334, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Tom L. Johnston for appellant.
Mr. Robert M. Clarke and Mr. Thomas Lee Woolwine,
with whom Mr. U. S. Wbb, Attorney General of the
State of California, Mr. George E. Cryer and Mr. Ray E.
Nimmo were on. the brief, 'for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
This case was submitted with Crane v. Johnson, ante,
339. It was considered in the District Court with that
case, three judges sitting as in that case. It comes here
on appeal from an order denying an interlocutory injunction. The court entertained jurisdiction upon the authority of Raich v. Truax,.219 Fed. Rep. 273, 283; Truax
V. Raich, 239 U. S. 33.
The court in denying the injunction said "that the
granting of such orders is within the sound discretion of
the court, and in the exercise of such discretion, based
upon the averments of the bills, we are of opinion that
the application should be denied." The court did not
pass upon the merits, expressing a doubt of its authority
to do so as the court'said it was composed of three judges
"under statutory requirement."
Appellant-we shall call her complainant, and state

OCTOBER TERM, 1916,
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

narratively the facts she alleged-is a regularly graduated
opthalmologist, which is a school of scientific learning and
practice confined to the treatment of the inflammation of
the eye and its membranes and in fitting glasses to the
human eye. She has practiced her profession in the City
and County of Los Angeles for the past three years and
is dependent upon the proceeds of her labor and services.
She does not employ either medicine, drugs or surgery,
nor is there anything in her practice hurtful to the individual or dangerous to society.
In her practice it is absolutely necessary and indispensable that she measure the powers and range of human
vision without the use 6f drugs and there is no law in the
State of California prescribing an examination for and
regulating the practice of opthalmology.
At its 40th session the legislature of California enacted
a statute by which it provided that it should be unlawful
for any,person to engage in the practice of optometry without first having obtained a certificate of registration from
the State Board of Optometry under an act to regulate
that practice apprdved March 20, 1903, and the acts
amendatory thereof.
The practice of optometry is defined to be "the employment of any means other than the use of drugs for the
measurement of the powers or range of human vision or
the determination of the accommodative and refractive
states of the human eye or the scope of its functions in
general or the adaptation of lenses or frames for the aid
thereof."
The board is given the power, among others, to visit
schools where the science of optometry is taught and accredit such as the board finds.give a sufficient course of
study for the preparation of optometrists; to keep a
register of all persons to whom certificates of registration have been issued and of all itinerant licenses, and
to grant or refuse or revoke such certificates. The act

McNAUGHTON v. JOHNSON.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

prescribes a course of examination, describes the particulars of the examinations, and provides that every applicant
for an examination upon passing it shall be entitled to
be registered in the board's register of optometrists and
a certificate of registration shall be issued to him.
"At such examinations the board shall examine applicants in the anatomy of the eye, .in normal and abnormal
refractive and accommodative and muscular conditions
.and co-ordination of the eye, in subjective and objective
optometry, including the fitting of glasses, the principles
of lens grinding and frame adjusting, and in such other
subjects as pertain to the science and practice of optometry, such subjects to be enumerated in publication
by the board. . . . All such applicants without discrimination, who shall satisfactorily pass such examination shall thereupon be registered in the board's register
of optometrists and a certificate of registration shall be
issued to them, under the seal and signature of the members of said board upon payment of a fee of five dollars.
Such certificate shall continue in force until the first day
of August in the year next succeeding."
Before engaging in practice it shall be the duty of each
registered optometrist to notify the board in writing of
the place or places where he is to engage or intends to
engage in practice and of changes in such places.
There are other provisions intended to fortify those
above mentioned, and violations of the act are made misdemeanors, with fines and imprisonment, increasing with
repetition of the offense.
It is provided that the act shall not be construed to
prevent duly licensed physicians and surgeons from treating the human eye nor to prohibit the sale of complete
ready-to-wear eyeglasses as merchandise from a permanent place of business in good faith and not in evasion of
the act by any person not holding hlmself out as competent to examine and prescribe for the human eye.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

Registry certificates may be revoked for certain specified
causes.
Complainant charges that the act offends the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States in that it deprives her of her property without due
process of law and denies her the equal protection of the
laws, and as specifications of the last she instances the
exemption from the provisions of the act of licensed physicians and surgeons; the appropriation to the sole use of
registered optometrists of the right to employ any means
other than the use of drugs in the measurement of the
powers or range of vision; the denial to all other schools
of scientific learning and practice the right to measure the
range of human vision other than by'th6 use of drugs on
equal terms with the physician and surgeon, and contends
generally that her occupation .'being a lawful one, not
hurtful to the individual or dangerous to the community,
the State, has no power to impose discriminatory regulations upon it.
She alleges her competency to practice her profession
and apply its treatment, that appellees are threateniig toenforce the law, and hence prays temporary and permanent injunctions.
These specific objections are brought down to the general objection that the statute discriminates against those
who employ any other means than the use of drugs and,
therefore, "creates a monopoly favored and ptotected by
law, in the interest of practitioners who employ drugs in
determining the accommodative and refractive states of
the human eye."
To sustain the statute appellees adduce the police power
of the State; against the statute complainant urges the
Fourteenth Amendment and its prohibition of discrimination. The case requires, under the averments of the bill,
adjustment of these contentions.
It is established that. a State may regulate the'practice

McNAUGHTON v. JOHNSON.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of medicine, using this word in its most general sense:,
Dent v. West Virginia, 129 U. S. 114; Hawker v. New York,
170 U. S. 189; Reetz v. Michigan, 188 U. S. 505; Watson
v. Maryland, 218 U. S. 173; Collins v. Texas, 223 U. S. 288.
Complainant tries to escape from the rulings in those
cases by asserting a discrimination against her. She is an
opthalmologist, she avers, "which is a school of scientific
learning and practice confined to the treatment of the inflammation of the eye and its membranes and in fitting
glasses to the human eye," and that she has practiced her
profession for the past three years, and does not employ
medicine, drugs or surgery. She, however, attacks the
statute because, to use the language of her counsel, it
"arbitrarily discriminates against every other school of
scientific knowledge and practice in favor of the school
employing drugs in determining the accommodative and
refractive states of the human eye." It undoubtedly does,
but gives the name of the school that of "optometry"
and its practitioners "optometrists." We cannot suppose
that any injury is done her by the difference in names,
and yet she gives no other tangible ground of complaint.
Whether they are different and whether the difference is
of substantial or unsubstantial degree she does not inform
us. She practices one of them in preference to the other,
and for the practice of that one the State has declared
that its certificate of competency is necessary. The cases
cited above establish that the State has such power and it
requires no more of complainant than it requires of any
other opthalmologist, to use her word, or of any other
optometrist, to use the word of the statute.
The District Court was, therefore, right when it decided
that on the averments of the bill complainant was not
entitled to an injunction.
Decree affirried.

