OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Statement of the Case.

242 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 44.

Argued October 27, 1916.-Decided December 4, 1916.

A railroad company which, being required by order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission to report all instances in which its employees
have been kept on duty longer than the period provided by the
Hours of Service Act, 34 Stat. 1415, omits from its report as filed
certain instances of excessive service, under the honest but mistaken belief that they did not come within that act, is not liable to
the penalties prescribed by ยง 20 of the Act to Regulate Commerce,
as amended June 18, 1910, 36 Stat. 539, 556, where it appears that
the mistake was not only honest but was rhade in a genuinely doubtful case.
Section 20 in its penal features should be applied only to cases coming
plainly within its terms. Semble, that the'oply sanction securing the
correctness of such reports is the penalty for the perjury committed
when the oath under which they are made is violated.
In construing a penal provision, the court will be slow to attribute to
Congress an intention to exact punishment which the Government
itself has conceded would be greatly disproportionate to the offence.
Statutes should be construed, if possible, so that their requirements
shall be apparent in their own terms rather than dependent upon
the discretion of executive officers.
213 Fed. Rep. 162, affirmed.

THIS is a civil proceeding brought by the United States
in the United States' District Court for the District of
North Dakota, to recover $500 from the Northern Pacific
Railway Company for the claimed failure to file, for five
successive days, with the Interstate Commerce Commission, a report of violations of the Hours of Service Act, as
required by an order of the Commission issued June 28,
1911. The order was made under authority of ยง 20 of
the Act to Regulate Commerce, as amended June 18th,

UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO.
242 U. S.

191

Statement of the Case.

1910, 36 Stat. 539, 556, and has the force of statute law.
It requires the carrier. to report "under oath" within
thirty days after the end of each month, all instances
where employees have been on duty for a longer period
than that provided in said act, which in this case was six-,
teen hours.
The District Court rendered judgment for the Government, which was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Eighth Circuit (213 Fed. Rep. 162). The case is
here for decision on writ of certiorari.
The judgment of the District Court was rendered on
the pleadings, the admitted facts of the case being as
follows:
Five employees of the defendant were called to take
charge of a wrecking train at 8.10 o'clock p. m. October 29,
1911, but, before they reported at the place of duty, it
was ascertained that such train would not be needed and
when they arrived they were notified that their services
would not then be required, but that they should report
for duty at 10.35 o'clock p. m. the same evening. From
8.10 to 10.35 o'clock they did not render any service "save
that they kept alive the fire in the engine during said
period." At 10.35 o'clock the five men entered upon a
freight train run, which, because of hot boxes, was delayed
so that it did not arrive at destination until 1.15 o'clock
p. m. the next day.
If the service of the men were considered as beginning
at 8.10 o'clock, the hour for which they were called, they
were on duty for 17 hours and 5 minutes, but if the time
were reckoned from 10.35 p. m., when the men actually
took charge of the freight train, they were on duty less
than sixteen hours. It is admitted that the officials of
the railway company believed in good faith that the time
of the men should be reckoned from 10.35 p. m., and not
from 8.10 p. m., and that, for that reason, when next after
October 30th, 1911, they filed their report of employees

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

subject to the act who had been kept on duty for a longer
period than sixteen hours, the names of the members of
this crew were omitted, although the names of many
other employees who had been kept on duty longer than
the statutory limit were stated in that report.
It was conceded at the hearing in the Circuit Court of
Appeals that the United States had sued the company
for the "forfeitures" prescribed for these excessive services under discussion in this case, and had secured a judgment which had been paid, and that thereby it was
determined, for the purposes of this suit, that these employees were on duty from 8.10 o'clock p. m., and therefore for more than sixteen hours.
The Government's claim in the case is for the omission
for five days to file the report and it prays judgment for
"forfeitures" aggregating $500, although when the complaint was filed the report claimed to be defective had
been on file from November 30th, 1911, to September 14th,
1912, and if the "forfeitures" of $100 per day prescribed
by the law for each day of failure to file a proper report
were allowed, the amount of recovery by the Government
would be $28,900, and it is only by grace of the public
officials that the claim in the suit was not for this amount
instead of for $500.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Underwood for the
United States.
Mr. Emerson Hadley, with whom Mr. Charles W. Bunn
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

It will be seen from the foregoing statement of facts
that the question presented by the record in this case for
decision is: Assuming that the law required that in the

UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO.
242 U. S.

193

Opinion of the Court.

report of the company filed on November 30th, 1911, the
names of these five employees of the defendant should
have been included as having been on duty for more than
sixteen hours, and that their names were omitted from
that report because it was in good faith believed that their
hours of service should be computed from 10.35 o'clock
p. m., and that, therefore, they had not been on duty in
excess of sixteen hours, is the company liable for the
"forfeitures" prescribed by the statute, judgment for
which was prayed for in the complaint?
Section 20 of the Act to Regulate Commerce of February 4, 1887, as amended June 18, 1910, 36 Stat. 556, requires the filing of elaborate annual reports by carriers
and also the filing of such special reports as the Commission may, by general or special order, require. On the
twenty-eighth day of June, 1911, the Commission ordered
that all carriers subject to the provisions of the act should
report "under oath" within thirty days after the end of
each month all instances of employees who had been on
duty for a longer time than that required by the act.
It is for violation of this order, which has the effect of
statute law, that this suit was instituted, it being admitted
by the Government that the failure to mention these five
men in the report by the defendant, filed at the proper
time, and which contained a report of many men kept on
duty for a period longer than the time allowed by law,
was due to the fact that it in good faith believed that
these men commenced their time of service at 10.35 instead of at 8.10 o'clock, and that therefore they were not
on duty more than the sixteen hours prescribed by the
statute. The defendant in erro" contends that judgment
is asked for an omissiou caused by an honest mistake with
respect to a genuinely doubtful case in a report which was
properly fied and this, it is claimed, is not a violation of
the law. The statute is a penal one and should be applied
only to cases coming plainly within its terms. Steam

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Qpinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

Engine Co. v. Hubbard, 101 U. S. 188. While the reports
filed must be truthful reports (Yates v. Jones National
Bank, 206 U. S..158), yet, since they must be made under
oath, the penalties for perjury would seem to be the direct
and sufficient sanction relied upon by the law-making
power to secure their correctness.
We are confirmed in this conclusion by the fact that
the annual report required of carriers by this same ยง 20
of the act calls for so great an amount of detailed information that it would be difficult, if not impossible, for any
one to prepare such a report without making some unintentional omission or mistake, and we cannot bring ourselves to think that Congress intended to punish such an
innocent mistake or omission with a penalty of $100 a day.
There are, to be sure, many statutes which punish violations of their requirements regardless of the intent of the
persons violating them, but innocent mistakes, made in
reporting facts, where the circumstances are such that
candid minded men may well differ in their conclusions
with respect to them, should not be punished by exacting
penalties, exceptwhere the express letter of the statute so
requires, and we conclude that the section under discussion contains no such requirement. In reports in which a
mistake is much more likely to prove harmful than in such
a report as we have here, the national banking laws punish
mistakes only where "knowingly" made.
It is argued that if good faith will excuse an omission
or a mistaken statement in this report, it will be widely
taken advantage of as a cover for making false and fraudulent statements in such reports in the future. Such a
prospect seems quite groundless, since many, if not most,
criminal laws imposing penalties are made applicable only
in cases where corrupt intent or purpose is established to
the satisfaction of a court or jury, yet such requirement
has not been found in practice to be an encouragement
to wrongdoing.

CISSNA v. TENNESSEE.

242 U. S.

Syllabus.

The fact that the Government sues for only one fiftyseventh part of the forfeitures which had accrued under
the construction of the rule and statute contended for
by it, should make us slow to attribute to Congress a
purpose to exact what is thus admitted to be a punishment
greatly disproportionate to the offense. Statutes should
be construed, as far as possible, so that those subject to
their control may, by reference to their terms, ascertain
the measure of their duty and obligation, rather than
that such measure should be dependent upon the discretion of executive officers, to the end that ours may continue to be a Government of written laws rather than
one of official grace.
It being very clear that it is not the purpose of the law
under discussion to punish honest mistakes, made in a
genuinely doubtful case, the decision of the Circuit Court
of Appeals is
Afflrmed.

CISSNA v. STATE OF TENNESSEE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
TENNESSEE.
No. 89. Argued November 10, 1916.-Reargument ordered December 11,
1916.
The jurisdiction of this court being here challenged; and it appearing
that the facts presented are identical with those on which depends
a suit over boundary, brought by the State of Arkansas against the
State of Tennessee (defendant in error herein) while this case was
pending in the courts of the latter State; that a decision of this case
upon the merits will be equivalent to a decision of the boundary
controversy and that an affirmance of the judgment will dispose of
the avails of nearly or quite all the lands involved in that case and
this; Ordered, that this case be restored to the docket and be assigned

