PORTUGUESE-AMERICAN BANK v. WELLES.
242 U. S.

7

Syllabus.

since it is apparent from the text that the purpose of the
statute was to permit fees to be charged for the services
expressly provided for in § 12 only when such fees were
enumerated and authorized by § 13,-a conclusion which
is additionally apparent since § 12 unmistakably imposes
duties for which no fees are provided in § 13, but which
are covered by the prohibition of § 21. Second: If on
the other hand it be assumed that, there is no express
provision for furnishing the copies in § 12, but that such
duty only arose in consequence of the general provision
of that section requiring clerks to furnish "certified copies
of such other proceedings and orders instituted in or
issued out of said court affecting or relating to the naturalization of aliens as may be required from time to time by
the said Bureau," it is equally clear that the prohibition
of § 21 would be applicable, since it was plainly intended
to prevent resort to extraneous legislation for the purpose
of supporting the right to charge a fee for services embraced within the general terms of § 12 when no fee was
provided for such services by § 13.
Affirmed.

PORTUGUESE-AMERICAN BANK OF SAN
FRANCISCO v. WELLES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 45.

Argued October 27, 1916.-Decided November 13, 1916.

A provision in a contract between the City of San Francisco and a
construction company declaring that the company shall not, either
legally or equitably, assign any moneys payable thereunder or its
claim thereto, unless with the consent of the Board of Public Works,

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Appellees.

242 U. S.

does not render absolutely void an assignment of money due and
payable under the contract, made by the contractor to a bank for
valuable consideration but without such consent; nor prevent the
passing of a prior title as against the right of a subcontractor who
subsequently took the steps prescribed by § 1184 of the California
Code of Civil Procedure for the sequestration of the same indebtedness-it appearing that the city did not object to the assignment or
favor either claimant. Burck v. Taylor, 152 U. S. 634, distinguished.
211 Fed. Rep. 561; 215 Fed. Rep. 81, reversed.

The case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. William R. Harr, with whom Mr. George A. Knight,
Mr. CharlesJ. Heggerty, Mr. James B. Feehan, Mr. Joseph
W. Beretta and Mr. Charles H. Bates were on the briefs,
for appellant.
Mr. Harold Remington, with whom Mr. F. H. Dam,
Mr. R. T. Devlin, Mr. W. H. Devlin, Mr. A. F. Morrison,
Mr. P. F. Dunne, Mr. W. I. Brobeck, Mr. Milton J. Green
and Mr. 'George J. Hatfield were on the brief, for appellees:
I. The provision in the contract to control assignments
of moneys due was valid. Burck v. Taylor, 152 U. S. 634,
and many other cases were cited to the general proposition
that parties to contracts may prohibit assignment. The
prohibition may extend to the assignment of moneys
due under the contract. Tabler v. Sheffield Land, Iron &
Coal Co., 79 Alabama, 377; Stanley v. Sheffield Land, Iron
& Coal Co., 83 Alabama, 261; Barringerv. Bes Line Construction Co., 23 Oklahoma, 131; Zetterlund v. Texas Land
&c. Co., 55 Nebraska, 355; Omaha v. Standard Oil Co.,
55 Nebraska, 337; Murphy v. Plattsmouth, 78 Nebraska,
163; State ex rel. Kansas City Loan Guarantee Co. v. Kent,
98 Mo. App. 281. The assignment, when so forbidden,
merely creates a personal obligation between assignor
and assignee.
Such provisions are not invalid as restraining alienation.

PORTUGUESE-AMERICAN BANK v. WELLES.
242 U. S.

9

Opinion of the Court.

California Civil Code, § 711, which is but declaratory of
the common law (Murray v. Green, 64 California, 363),
merely discountenances such restraints as are inconsistent
with the interest created. The restraints which are obnoxious concern real estate (Murray v. Green, supra), or
other tangible property (Bradley v. Piexotto, 3 Ves. Jr.
324). The rule against restraint is never applied to avoid
provisions against assigning contracts 'contained in the
contracts themselves. La Rue v. Groezinger, .84 California, 281. Cases in which claims against insurance companies after loss have been held assignable despite stipulations to the contrary are to be distinguished upon the
ground that insurance .contracts are in a peculiar way
construed in favor of the insured. Otherwise, such decisions are clearly contrary to the general rule and great
weight of authority.
There are especial reasons for upholding such prohibitions in favor of municipalities. On grounds of public
policy they are exempted from garnishment and judicial
seizure of municipal revenues for debts, 1 Dillon Municipal Corporations, 5th ed., §§ 248, 249; with equal or
better reason should they be exempted from suits on assigned obligations. Omaha v. Standard Oil Co., supra;
Murphy v. Plattsmouth, supra; State ex rel. Kansas City
Loan Guarantee Co. v. Kent, supra.
II. The provision against assignment was not merely
for the benefit of the city, but rendered the assignment
absolutely void unless the city consented, Burck v.
Taylor, supra.
The interest of the municipality demands that subcontractors be protected against assignments.
MR. JUSTICE HoLMEs delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit brought by the appellee Welles to establish
a lien upon a debt of $6,830.85 due under a construction

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

contract from the City of San Francisco, represented by
the appellee Boyle, to the bankrupt, Metropolis Construction Company. The District Court approved the
report of the referee against the claim and in favor of the
appellant, but this decree was reversed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. 211 Fed. Rep. 561. 215 Fed. Rep. 81.
128 C. C. A. 161. 131 C. C. A. 389. The subject-matter
is the fourth progress payment, which on December 5,
1910, had been authorized by the Board of Public Works
of the city. On that day the Construction Company
applied to the appellant bank for a loan of $30,000 secured
by an order on the "auditor of the city authorizing the
bank to draw from the city for the above and other
amounts not in controversy here. The bank declined
until the order should be accepted by the auditor whereupon on the next day the order was presented to the
auditor's office and stamped as received on December 6.
The order was intended and taken as an assignment and
after it had been stamped was accepted by the bank as
security and the money was advanced. The next day
$5,000 more was advanced on the same security, notes
being given for each sum. The appellee Welles was a subcontractor, and on December 12 and 16 served notice on
the city to withhold payment, as permitted by § 1184 of
the Code of Civil Procedure of the State of California*
It is admitted by Welles that if the assignment was valid
his rights are subordinate to it, Newport Wharf & Lumber
Co. v. Drew, 125 California, 585, and the only question
argued on his behalf is whether the terms of the contract
between the bankrupt and the city made the assignment
void.
The contract provided that the contractor should keep
the work under his personal control and should not assign
or sublet the whole or any part thereof without the consent of the Board of Public Works. It further declared
that no subcontract should relieve the contractor of any

PORTUGUESE-AMERICAN BANK v. WELLES.
242 U. S.

11

Opinion of the Court.

of his obligations and that he should not "either legally
or equitably, assign any of the moneys payable under
this contract or his claim thereto unless with the like consent." The city has made no objection to the assignment
to the bank and the money now awaits the decision of
this court as between the claimant of the lien and the
prior assignee.
There is a logical difficulty in putting another man into
the relation of the covenantee to the covenantor, because
the facts that give rise to the obligation are true only of
the covenantee-a difficulty that has been met by the
fiction of identity of person and in other ways not material
here. Of course a covenantor is not to be held beyond
his undertaking and he may make that as narrow as he
likes. Arkansas Valley Smelting Co. v. Belden Mining Co.,
127 U. S. 379. But when he has incurred a debt, which
is property in the hands of the creditor, it is a different
thing to say that as between the creditor and a third person the debtor can restrain his alienation of that, although
he could not forbid the sale or pledge of other chattels.
When a man sells a horse, what he does, from the point
of view of the law, is to transfer a right, and a right being
regarded by the law as a thing, even though a res incorporalis, it is not illogical to apply the same rule to a debt
that would be applied to a horse. It is not illogical to say
that the debt is as liable to sale as it is to the acquisition
of a lien. To be sure the lien is allowed by a statute subject to which the contract was made, but the contract
was made subject also to the common law, and if the
common law applies the principle recognized by the
statute of California that a debt is to be regarded
as a thing and therefore subjects it to the ordinary
rules in determining the relative rights of an assignee
and the claimant of a lien, it does nothing of which
the debtor can complain. See further, Cal. Civil Code,
§§ 954, 711. The debtor does not complain, but stands

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

indifferent, willing that the common law should take its
course.
The Circuit Court of Appeals relied largely upon Burck
v. Taylor, 152 U. S. 634, some expressions in which, at
least, seem to warrant the conclusion reached. But that
case as understood by the majority of the court was quite
different from this. A contract for the building of the
Capitol of Texas was made not assignable without the
consent of the Governor and certain others. The contractor assigned an undivided three-fourths interest to
Taylor, Babcock & Co., with the required assent and then
three-sixteenths without assent to three others severally,
one of whom conveyed one thirty-second to the plaintiff.
The contractor made another conveyance of all his rights
under the contract to Taylor, Babcock & Co., and Taylor,
Babcock & Co. made what purported to be a transfer of
the entire contract to Abner Taylor, the defendant. Both
of these transfers were assented to. In the latter Taylor
purported to bind himself to the State to perform the
original contract and in the assent to the same the Governor and other authorities stated that they recognized
Taylor as the contractor, bound as the original contractor
was bound. The court held that there was a novation,
p. 650, and that Taylor acted without notice of the plaintiff's claim, p. 653. Upon those facts it would be hard to
make out any right of the plaintiff to proceeds of the newcontract that Taylor had performed.
The assignability of a debt incurred under a contract
like the present sometimes is sustained on the ground that
the provision against assignment is inserted only for the
benefit of the city. Whether that form of expression is
accurate or merely is an indirect recognition of the principle that we have stated, hardly is material here. It is
enough to say that we are of opinion that upon the facts
stated the assignment was not absolutely void, that therefore the bank got'a title prior to that of Welles and con-

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. CO. v. PARKER.
242 U. S.

13

Syllabus.

sequently that the decree must be reversed. See Hobbs v.
McLean, 117 U. S. 567. Burnett v. Jersey City, 31 N. J.
Eq. 341. Fortunato v. Patten, 147 N. Y. 277.
Decree reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA dissents for the reasons stated

by the Circuit Court of Appeals.

LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY v. PARKER, ADMINISTRATOR OF PARKER.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.
No. 330. Submitted November 1, 1916.-Decided November 13, 1916.
Plaintiff's intestate was killed while moving an engine with attached
intrastate car. There was evidence, strong but not conclusive, that
the purpose of the movement was to reach and move another car
in interstate commerce. i Not asking to have this considered by the
jury, defendant unsuccessfully insisted that the trial judge deal with
the case as a case of interstate commerce governed by the Federal
Employers' Liability Act. The case went to the jury as one dependent on the state law, and there was a money -verdict which
admittedly could not be sustained if the federal act applied.
Held that not the intrastate character of the moving car, as erroneously
held by the court below, but the purpose of the operation involving
the movement, must determine whether deceased was engaged in
interstate commerce.
That the purpose was for the jury to determine; and defendant, not
having sought the jury, or made any request or objection in the
trial court which was not rightly overruled, could not complain of
the verdict.
165 Kentucky, 658, affirmed.

