OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

°
242 U. S.

the Michigan statute. Therefore, we shall rest this case
upon our opinion in Nos. 438, 439 and 440, reserving to the
Michigan case our reply'to the more specific objections.
Decree reversed and cause remandedfor further proceedings
in conformity with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS dissents.

MERRICK ET AL. v. N. W. HALSEY & COMPANY
ET AL., AND THE WEIS FIBRE CONTAINER
CORPORATION.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 413.

Argued October 16, 17, 1916.-Decided January 22, 1917.

The Michigan "Blue Sky Law," Act No. 46, Public Acts, 1915, p. 63,
is the same in principle as the laws of Ohio and South Dakota, involved in lail v. Geiger-Jones Co., ante, 539, and Caldwell v. Sioux
Falls Stock Yards Co., ante, 559, and is sustained over constitutional
objections for the same reasons.
Whether the dealing in stocks and other securities, or sale of their
own issues by corporations, require governmental regulation for
the prevention of fraud, and whether svch regulation should be by
executive control or otherwise, are questions for the state legislature,
and unless its judgment in these regards, or the execution of it, be
palpably arbitrary, the courts will not interfere.
,Tt is not a function of this court to pass upon the expediency or adequacy of legislation.
The purpose of the Michigan statute is to protect investors in securities
not from financial loss generally but from fraud.
In prevention of fraud, the regulatory power of a State is not necessarily confined to those classes of business which by their nature
or as generally conducted involve or encourage fraud; it may extend
to those in which fraud usually, when it arises, is occasional and

MERRICK v. HALSEY & CO.
242 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

confined to individual transactions, but which may nevertheless be
conducted for fraudulent purposes.
The limitations of the Constitution are not so rigid as to render state
legislation inadequate to the changing conditions of life.
Section 3 of the Michigan act, which exempts from its operation securities "listed in any standard manual of information" approved by
the securities commission, held, not to render the act unduly discriminatory or involve unlawful delegation of power.
The act complies with the requirement of the Michigan constitution
that no law shall embrace more than one object, which shall be
expressed in its title.
228 Fed. Rep. 805, reversed.

THE question in the case is the validity of the Blue Sky
Law (using this designation for convenience) of the State
of Michigan. The law is almost identical with that of
South Dakota, which is the subject of tho decision in
No. 386, ante, 559. The pleadings are elaborate and
practically defy synopsis. There are direct complainants
and intervening complainants, expressing the grievances of
dealers in the State and outside of the State, and of persons
who would like to be dealers in the State but are deterred,
they allege, by the expense of the undertaking. The law,
therefore, is assailed from all points and in all aspects.
The original bill includes in it as parties corporations,
individuals, co-partnerships, residents and citizens of
different States, all engaged in the investment banking
business and in the business of buying and selling stocks,
bonds and other securities, and offering them for sale in
Michigan and who have contracted from time to time to
sell such securities for the owners thereof and for the
issuers thereof. They have expended large sums of money
in advertising their business and have a valuable good
will and an extensive clientele and have acquired valuable
information as to the conduct of their business and as to
the names and addresses of persons, firms and corporations
who buy the designated securities in Michigan. They
send into the State their agents and employees, who there

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Statement of the Case.

242 U. S.

solicit orders for the securities and transmit such orders to
complainants, at Chicago, Illinois, which orders are accepted and the securities so purchased are transmitted to
Michigan. Their representations of the securities are
true representations, they allege, and that they have been
solicited to sell and have contracted to sell them, but have
been informed that they cannot be permitted to sell them
without complying with the Michigan statute.
The various provisions of the statute are set out, with
details as to the manner of its operation; the irrelevancy of
it is asserted, the useless labor of it-in some cases the
impossibility of it-and in other cases its unreasonableness; and it is further asserted that its exaction of matters
of confidence and its requirements invade and destroy
property rights, curtail freedom of coitract and otherwise
seriously damage complainants' business and property.
All of this is alleged with industrious and elaborate detail.
The, other charges of invalidity against the act are:
(1) It is in violation of the constitution of Michigan, which
provides that no law shall embrace more than one object,
which shall be exptessed in its title, with specifications.
(2) It offends against the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States, especial stress being
put upon the exceptions of the statute, which are asserted
to be discriminations in violation of the equal protection
of the laws -guaranteed by that amendment. (3) It imposes a burden on interstate commerce in violation of § 8,
Article I, of the Constitution of the United States.
Under the latter objection there is elaborate specification of particulars which exhibit, with the specifications
under the other objections, every shade of meaning, purpose or effect that ingenuity can ascribe to the statuteindeed, every provision of the statute is reviewed and
charged with some form of illegality. However, the
attacks may be condensed in the charge that the statute
is a violation of the prohibitions of the Fourteenth Amend-

MERRICK v. HALSEY & CO.
242 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

ment of state action because of its restrictions or prohibitions of a lawful business; and a violation of the commerce
clause of the Constitution because the designated securities
are articles of commerce and as such entitled to unmolested
transportation between the States, and that the statute
is a direct burden upon them in many cases, prohibitive
in others-with the addition that the statute delegates
legislative power to the commission created by it, inflicts
cruel and unusual punishments and imposes penalties
whose object is to deter from a test of its validity; and
inflicts cruel and unusual punishments in violation of the
constitution of Michigan.
It is also alleged that in a suit entitled Alabama & N. 0.
TransportationCo. v. Doyle, in the District Court for the
Eastern District of Michigan, the statute, of which the
statute under review is an amendment, was declared unconstitutional and void, the opinion in which case is reported in 210 Fed. Rep. 173, and that the statute there
passed upon is similar in all illegal particulars to the present statute. A remedy in equity is asserted because of
alleged irreparable injury and on account of the penalties
imposed, and an injunction is prayed against the enforcement of the act.
At the same time that the bill outlined above was filed
another bill was filed by the Weis Fibre Container Corporation, a corporation of South Dakota, whose purpose is
to manufacture, buy and sell paper or fibre containers and
similar products. It is not an investment company but a
manufacturing company. Its securities are not supervised or regulated by any public service board or commission and the proceeds from the sale of its stocks and
securities are employed in the prosecution of its business
and are not otherwise invested. The corporation is duly
authorized to do business in Michigan; its stock is valuable,
and, it has offered it for sale in Michigan directly and
through agents and employees; and it is alleged that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Statement of the Case.

242 U. S.

representations made in regard thereto are true. It has
solicited various persons in Michigan to offer its stock for
sale and they have informed it that its stocks cannot be
sold in Michigan unless full compliance is made with the
statute.
The bill attacks the statute for the illegalities detailed
in the other bill and, considering that the only remedy is
in equity, prays an injunction against the enforcement of
the act.
A restraining order was issued entitled in both cases.
Subsequently, on September 16, 1915, a partnership, organized and existing under the laws of the State of Ohio,
having the name of Otis & Company and composed of citizens of Colorado and Ohio, filed a petition in intervention.
That company is a dealer in bonds and other securities
in Michigan and such bonds and securities are of the kind
which the statute of the State regulates. It also sends
agents into the State to solicit orders for such securities
and transmits orders to its offices in Cleveland, Ohio.
It asserts identity of situation with the complainants in
the other bills and adopts their charges against the statute
and prays to be made a party complainant to the cause and
for the benefit of the restraining order issued therein and
for such other relief as the court may deem meet.
A demurrer was filed to the bills and a motion made for
injunction. The company was given the benefit of the
restraining' order and a like benefit was given to all others
who might petition to intervene, the restraining order
to continue until the disposition of the motion which had
been made for injunction. The injunction was subsequently granted (228 Fed. Rep. 805) and to review it this
appeal is prosecuted.
There was a partnership under the name of Remick,
Hodges & Company, Remick and Hodges being residents
of New York and March a resident of New Jersey, having
their office at the City of New York and engaged in buying

MERRICK v. HALSEY & CO.
242 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

and selling stocks, bonds and other securities. Their
business is known as investment banking and is carried
on in New York and by their agents there and elsewhere
and by mail with various corporations, associations and
persons throughout the United States and in the State of
Michigan. They own many of such securities which they
have offered and are offering for sale and desire to continue to offer to their customers in the State of Michigan.
They have no place of business in the State and are not
at the present time sending agents into the State but are
endeavoring to sell securities there; but the volume of.
such business is not sufficient to justify them to attempt
to comply with the statute of the State and the statute, if
enforced against them, will have the effect of preventing
them from making any further offers in the State and
from attempting to establish or develop any business
therein, and they are excluded thereby from interstate
commerce in such securities which they have heretofore
enjoyed.
They allege themselves to be in like situation with complainants and adopt the allegations of complainants' bills,
and especially complain of the penalties which may be enforced against them and their agents and pray to come
into the suit as parties.
The causes were subsequently consolidated by a nunc
pro tunc order.
The injunctions restrained the defendants from enforcing the act and from beginning or instituting any action,
civil or criminal, against complainants "based upon or
pursuant to such act."
Mr. Grant Fellows, Attorney General of the State of
Michigan, for appellants..
Mr. George W. Wickersham and Mr. Robert R. Reed,
with whom Mr. Charles K. Allen was on the briefs, for

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Appellees.

242 U. S.

appellees other than the Weis Fibre Container Corporation et al.:
One who "in the course of continued or successive transactions of a similar nature" offers or sells stocks, bonds or
other securities owned by him, cannot be prohibited from
continuing such "business" except under executive license,
subject to revocation. In its every act and aspect, the
business represents simply a varying number of transactions, each of which is an individual transaction and a
matter of individual right. This business, and the issuing
of stocks and bonds by corporations, is no more "affected
by a public interest" than the business of buying and
selling groceries. Alabama & N. 0. TransportationCo. v.
Doyle, 210 Fed. Rep. 173, 179. The professed aim of
"blue-sky" legislation is to eliminate the" get-iich-quick"
fakirs. The present act by its terms is directed against
the great normal business and the bulk of individual
transactions involving the sale and re-sale of outstanding
securities amounting to billions of dollars in amount. No
effort whatever has been made to confine its operation to
securities involving elements suggestive of fraud and
danger. It includes the "get-rich-quick" promoter in the
same way that an act directed against the purchase and
sale of any wearing apparel would include the street
peddler in paper collars.
There has nowhere at any time been any suggestion of
any wide-spread fraud in the sale or distribution of socalled investment securities. There are in fact many
businesses where fraud is supposed to be more prevalent,
including as instances horse trading and the automobile
business. In practically every contractual transaction
fraud is possible, and its prevention a proper subject for
legislative action. If, upon a legislative assumption of
the prevalence of fraud in any general business (as distinguished from a limited or special method of doing business) the entire business and the right to carry it on may

MERRICK v. HALSEY & CO.
242 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

be made the subject of discretionary executive license,
then no business can be judicially protected from the
assertion of this power.
So far as we have been able to discover, no case has
ever reached this court where the power of executive
license was asserted except against a business clearly
subject to the power of prohibition. Many such cases
have, however, been before the state courts and the acts
held unconstitutional. People v. Berrien, 124 Michigan,
664, 666; People v. Warden, 157 N. Y. 116, 123; People v.
Jenkins, 202 N. Y. 53, 57; Chaddock v. Day, 75 Michigan,
527; Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S. 45, 63; Bessette v.
People, 193 Illinois, 334.
In a special sense "police power" relates only to "great
public needs," represented by "public peace, health,
morals and safety." The term has also been more broadly
used as synonymous with governmental power. Its use
in the different classes of cases by no means implies that
legislation to promote the public convenience may authorize the executive to seize the person or property of the
individual in the same way as is permitted to legislation
relating to public health; nor, that legislation to prevent
fraud in individual transactions of purchase and sale may
take the form of subjecting the right to engage in such
transactions to discretionary executive license. In Powell
v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678, the act was rested primarily on the protection of the public health. See also Plumley v. Massachusetts, 155 U. S. 461. Rast v. Van Deman,
240 U. S. 342, dealt with a prohibition of a particular and
novel method of doing business, conceivably pregnant
with a special danger to the public. In the present case
we have a prohibition of an entire business consisting
primarily of a succession of normal individual transactions. The right is asserted, not to prohibit specific
methods of carrying on this business nor of requiring
specific safeguards against fraud, but of prohibiting the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Appellees.

242 U. S.

whole business, unless in the first instance the right to
engage in it is granted by an administrative officer or
board upon its determination of the essentially administrative question as to the character of the individual.
Unless we start with the proposition that the right to
sell securities owned by individuals as a business is n~t
an inherent right, it is difficult to conceive of any other
principle upon which such power may be upheld. -The
determination as to the character of the individual must
be essentially an individual determination of the particular
officer or board. It applies not alone against local dealers
known in the community, but against dealers of other
States and remote cities. Once such a jurisdiction is held
to be legally vested in an administrative officer, its exercise
becomes potentially arbitrary beyond the power of real
protection in the courts-a power of complete control over
a business which is essentially individual and competitive.
Such a power once asserted and exercised is bound to
destroy the normal interstate business in the sale of securities.
Leaving aside some of the smaller and exceptional
classes of business and local nuisances subject to municipal
regulation, and dealing with the important businesses
which have been held subject to discretionary administrative control, such as the railroads, banks, insurance, and
liquor business, it is, we believe, correct to say that they
are subject to complete power of prohibition against the
individual; that they may be confined to corporations; and
that they may be taken over and operated by the State.

Each is susceptible to administrative control, and if
necessary of complete ownership and operation by the
State.

The business of dealing in the stocks and bonds of corporations is not within the principle laid down in German
Alliance Insurance Co. v. Lewis, 233 U. S. 389, and the

cases upon which it was decided.

Munn v. Illinois, 94

MERRICK v. HALSEY & CO.
242 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

U. S. 113; Budd v. New York, 143 U. S. 517; Brass v.
Stoeser, 153 U. S. 391; People v. Budd, 117 N. Y. 1, 27.
The facts submitted in the present case show that there
is no mature universal sense of the people regarding the
regulation of the sales of stocks and bonds. The legislation flared up suddenly under popular agitation and has
died down as rapidly. An equally widespread clamor
easily might be cultivated regarding the management of
department stores, or of any of the other manifold activities of business life which the Constitution and free
institutions protect from the meddlesome interference of
governmental bureaucracy. See American Surety Co. v.
Shallenberger, 183 Fed. Rep. 636, 639; German Alliance
Insurance Co. v. Barnes, .189 Fed. Rep. 769, 778; German
Alliance Insurance Co. v. Hale, 219 U. S. 307.
The prohibition against making a particular offering or
sale except upon a "certificate of authority" from a state
commission is invalid. Even though a fraudulent intent
cannot justly be ascribed to the promoter, yet if in the
opinion of the commission he has deceived himself and is
deceiving others as to the merits and prospects of his
scheme, which is in its opinion unsafe, then it would in
its opinion "work a fraud on the purchaser," deceive him
and cause him loss. This deception and this loss, though
unintended, the act plans to prevent. This is the crux
of the act. The purpose is to protect a minority of "investors," looking for vast gains, against a danger existing
in a small minority of transactions. It prohibits a hundred
transactions, because, one of them may be fraudulent,
and compels the ninety-nine innocent parties to get a
permit and pay a fee, and to establish their honesty and
the sound basis of their proposition before they can sell
a share of stock. Where not completely prohibitive in the
first instance, it will become so as to any normal offering
of investment securities the moment the commission exercises its uncontrolled discretion of conducting an ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Appellees.

242 U. S.

tended investigation of the property and business at the
expense of the applicant.
Dealing with the substance, we have a delegation of
complete power, including the legislative and the judicial.
The thing prohibited is not fraud. It is the transaction.
It is made a matter of license, instead of a matter of right
without a license. A whole field of ordinary legislation is
abandoned to the actual government and control of an
administrative commission. This field is the prevention
of fraud or improvidence in the sale or purchase of securities.
This deprives the person both of liberty and property
without due process of law. It is not within the police
power. Chicago v. Netcher, 183 Illinois, 104, 110; State v.
Indiana Oil Co., 120 Indiana, 575, 583; People v. Jenkins,
202 N. Y. 53, 57. The case is not like the case of banks,
which invite the savings of whole communities and perform quasi-public service. The investments are essentially individual, and the fraud, if practiced, is individual.
The losses sustained by fraud, as distinguished from losses
due to wide-spread depressions and panics, are individual.
The evil in its essence is simply an important one of the
many individual wrongs which should be the subject of
effective remedial legislation. See People v. Vandell, 146
N. Y. Supp. 992, 994.
Over quasi-public businesses and matters of public right,
the tendency of modern decisions is to re-assert, rather
than to create, the full power necessary to their effective
control. There axe also, of course, other subjects of prohibition and administrative control, distinct from any
business, such as the control over the use of streets and
public places, and the far-reaching control necessary at
times for the protection of the public health, peace and
safety, to which may be added the control over foreign
commerce and over aliens which has been vested in the
President, and the control given various officials or boards

MERRICK v. HALSEY & CO.
242 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

over governmental agencies, such as the post office, and
governmental property, including public parks and reservations. As to each and all of these subjects, the control
rests solely on the original principle of necessity on which
it was first asserted, and is historically and constitutionally an administrative power, the vesting and conditions
of which are subject to law, that is to legislative grant
and control. Such control not being legislative in its
nature, an act vesting it in an administrator is in no sense
a delegation of legislative power. Upon this principle we
explain Lieberman v. Van De Carr, 199 U. S. 552; Gundling
v. Chicago, 177 U. S. 183; Engel v. O'Malley, 219 U. S.
128; German Alliance Insurance Co. v. Lewis, 233 U. S.
389; Locke's Appeal, 72 Pa. St. 491; Field v. Clark, 143
U. S. 649; Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470; Union
Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S* 364; United States
v. Grimaud, 220 U. S. 506; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Goodrich Transit Co., 224 U. S. 194; Fong Yue Ting
v. United States, 149 U. S. 698, and like cases, as distinguished from Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 370.
In all these cases, though we think and speak of a
delegation of legislative power, it is a vesting of administrative power not within either the letter or spirit of the
constitutional rule of prohibition against the delegation
of such power. See also Public Clearing House v. Coyne,
194 U. S. 497; Ekiu v. United States, 142 U. S. 65, citing
United States v. Jung Ah Lung, 124 U. S. 621. This broad
power cannot exist, it cannot be judicially recognized as
it has been recognized, if the principle and precedents on
which it rests are to be held applicable to the entire field
of remedial legislation.
The so-called standard manual feature of the act is unconstitutional and void. The act is utterly unreasonablean unnecessary and arbitrary interference with private
rights, in violation of due process of law. Gundliig v.
Chicago, supra. Section 8 prohibits the sale of stock in

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Appellees.

242 U. S.

Michigan if upon investigation the commission disagrees
with the value which has been placed upon the property
by the authorities of the issuing State. This and the
power given the commission to make detailed examination
of investment companies' property and affairs at the
expense of such company and to make an appraisal at the
like expense of its properties, is utterly unreasonable, and,
as applied to. the normal business, potentially prohibitive.
The act impairs the freedom of commerce between the
States. There would be no question on this point but for
the forced construction attempted to be placed upon
Nathan v. Louisiana, 8 How. 73, and Paul v. Virginia, 8
Wall. 168. So far as the latter case goes, the distinction
is plain between a policy of insurance, which is a contract
between the parties having nothing to do with interstate
commerce, except that the parties may reside in different
States, and the case of stocks and bonds as subjects of
interstate sale. The former case depended on the right
of a State to tax its own citizens for the prosecution of
any particular business or profession within the State.
It is negligible as applied to the present statute. The
interstate sale of securities falls clearly within the opinion
of Chief Justice Marshall in Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat.
1, 189. The sale of stocks and bonds when issued and
offered for sale by a dealer in New York or Chicago to an
investor in Michigan, represents something more than the
contract of insurance dealt with in Paul v. Virginia. It
is a "subject of trade and barter offered in the market
as something having existence in value independent of the
parties to them," that is, of the parties to the transaction
of purchase and sale. "They are not commodities," but
it is not necessary that a thing be a "commodity" in
order to be a subject of sale or commerce. International
Textbook Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91; Darnell v. Indiana,226
U. S. 390,Lottery Case, 188 U. S. 321. The attempt to
rely upon the inspection cases is hardly serious enough

MERRICK v. HALSEY & CO.
242 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

to require an answer. Generally speaking, a defect in
personal property may be discovered by inspection. A
fraud in the issuance of sale of stocks cannot be so discovered. What is here attempted is investigation of all
questions relating to the soundness of enterprises and
values of securities. See People v. Compagnie Gen. Transatlantique, 107 U. S. 59, 62; Turner v. Maryland, 107
U. S. 38; Patapsco Guano Co. v. North Carolina,171 U. S.
345.
Laws like this have been condemned by fourteen federal judges in the following cases. Alabama & N. 0.
TransportationCo. v. Doyle, 210 Fed. Rep. 173; Compton
Co. v. Allen, 216 Fed. Rep. 537; Bracey v. Darst, 218 Fed.
Rep. 482; Sioux Falls Stock Yards Co. v. Caldwell (before
this court), 230 Fed. Rep. 236; Halsey & Co. v. Merrick
(this case), 228 Fed. Rep. 805; Sater v. Hollister (before
this court), 230 Fed. Rep. 233.
Nowhere in the lower federal courts or in the supreme
court of any of the States has there been any dissent by
even a single judge to the principle announced in the first
Michigan case, holding the act void as applied to ordinary
dealers in investment securities.
Mr. Hal H. Smith filed a brief for the Weis Fibre Container Corporation et al., appellees:
The regulation of the dealer and his calling is incidental
to the main purpose of the act which is the regulation and
prohibition, unless in compliance with the act, of the issue
of stock and bonds by corporations and the making of
loans in certain forms by individuals, co-partnerships and
associations. The burden of the law falls somewhat upon
the dealer but its heaviest load rests upon the issuer of
the stocks, bonds or securities and the issuer may be any
person, corporate or otherwise, engaged in any business
whatever, except only the exempted classes.
The issue and sale of securities is a part of the freedom

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Appellees.

242 U. S.

guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal
Constitution and by the constitution of Michigan. It is
in effect the making of contracts "proper, necessary and
essential" to the pursuit of lawful livelihoods or avocations. Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578; Kuhn v.
Detroit, 70 Michigan, 537; Valentine v. Circuit Judge, 124
Michigan, 664.
The right to issue stock, to execute bonds and to secure
their payment by the pledge of property is of no value
unless the stock and bonds can thereafter be negotiated.
This the law prevents except under heavy restrictions.
The law lays its burden uot only upon the specific transaction and the particular investment company. By its
sweeping definition of investment companies, it regulates
all mninner of business enterprises and all kinds of manufacturing and mercantile pursuits. Moredock v. Kirby,
118 Fed. Rep. 180; Valentine v. Circuit Judge, supra.
The purpose of the statute is not to regulate fraud, but
rather to prevent financial loss. But even if it were
otherwise, regulation of all business for the purpose of
reaching the occasional fraud is clearly not justified. The
fraud must be a necessary incident to the particular
business, or the business must lend itself with peculiar
ease to deception, else the business cannot be regulatedonly the fraud. Tyroler v. Warden, 157 N. Y. 116.
This law subjects to the commission's authority all
secured commercial paper. It regulates the issue and sale
of corporate securities. To say now that all corporate
business and these securities are so frequently the vehicles
of fraud and lend themselves so easily to deception that
their entire issue and all their sale must be regulated as
this law regulates them, is to declare the very basis of
modern business to be fraudulent. Valentine v. Circuit
Judge, supra.
The court has power to determine for itself that no necessity exists for this statute. People v. Smith, 108 Michi-

MERRICK v. HALSEY & CO.
242 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

gan, 527. We insist that its very basis is "unreasonable
and purely arbitrary." Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis Co.,
240 U. S. 342. Even if some law would be justified, we
submit that the restrictions and burdens of this one do
arbitrarily and unnecessarily interfere with constitutional
rights; it absolutely suspends the issue, negotiation and
sale of the securities for a period limited only by the whim
of the commission. The provision of § 8 for an appraisal
is another requirement so unreasonable and drastic as to
be beyond the power of the State.
The requirement that all foreign investment companies
must consent to the jurisdiction of all the courts of the
State is another unreasonable restriction. It is settled
that a corporation cannot be required so to submit itself.
Sioux Remedy Co. v. Cope, 235 U. S. 197; Buck Stove &
Range Co. v. Vickers, 226 U. S. 205. It violates the constitutional right of nonresident individuals by depriving
them of the immunity allowed to citizens of this State,
since citizens of Michigan must be sued by personal
service. Moredock v. Kirby, supra; Caldwell v. Armour,
1 Penn. (Del.) 545; see 9 Fed. Statutes Ann., p. 176.
The law cannot be defended as a licensing law. It deals
with individual transactions. A new application must be
made on each new security. The test of the permission
is not the character of the dealer or his solvency. It is
the character of the security. The dealer is not licensed.
The dealer who is licensed can only sell approved securities.
Nor is it an inspection statute.. People v. Compagnie
Gen. Transatlantique, 107 U. S. 59; Sligh v. Kirkwood,
237 U. S. 52, 59, and other cases.
The act is in conflict with the commerce clause; vests
arbitrary power in the commission; its title covers more
than one subject, and does not express the object, in
violation of § 21, Article 5, of the Michigan constitution;
it is class legislation; delegates legislative authority; and

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

attempts to confer judicial powers, in violation of the
Michigan constitution.
Mr. George Cosson, Attorney General of the State of
Iowa, and Mr. Walter C. Owen, Attorney General of the
State of Wisconsin, by leave of court, filed a brief as amici
curice on behalf of the National Association of Attorneys
General of the United States.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, after stating the case as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The statute of Michigan is the same as the statutes of
South Dakota and Ohio, and our reply to the attacks
made upon it might be rested upon our discussion of those
statutes.
But in the present case, as we have said elsewhere, the
arguments, while fundamentally the same, are in some
respects more circumstantial. All the supposed consequences of the law are dilated upon-wherein, as it is
contended, it meddles with or burdens a business asserted
to be legitimate, wherein it prohibits or gives power to an
executive officer to arbitrarily prohibit such business, and
wherein it confuses legislative and executive powers, and
in these ways and other ways, as it is further contended,
transgresses the Constitution of the United States. Many
cases are cited to support the contentions and publicists
are avouched to the same end. In our discussion we cannot be as elaborate in details as counsel, nor is it necessary.
There are certain outside propositions upon which all
others may be regarded as dependent. These propositions
were considered in the other cases and we need now only
supplement what was there said.
The appellants justify the law by the police power of the
State and its comprehensive reach. Replying, appellees
urge against it the limitations of the Fourteenth Amend-

MERRICK v. HALSEY & CO.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ment and the national supremacy over interstate commerce; and applying the Fourteenth Amendment, assert
in many ways (we select one and upon it the changes are
rung) that the issue of the securities" is in effect the making of contracts 'proper and necessary and essential' to
the pursuit of lawful livelihoods or avocations," and cannot be "made the subject of discretionary executive
license," controlling thereby individual transactions.
The assertion encounters immediately many cases in
which laws have been sustained limiting the making of
contracts and regulating business through executive
agencies and necessarily controlling individual transactions. Indeed, there are too many for even marginal
citation. They, however, are attempted to be distinguished or restricted. It is said by counsel that they "deal
with administrative control over matters of public right or
public grant or existing at public sufferance." And it is
admitted that "the Legislature may deal drAstically with
many matters of private right, to prevent or redress
individual wrongs." It is further admitted that "drastic
remedies may be prescribed by law [italics ours] for evils
deemed by the Legislature to require them." Excluding
the proposition so expressed from application to the
Michigan law, it is insisted that the business to which it
applies "neither requires nor justifies, nor is susceptible
of, administrative or executive control for the purpose of
preventing a wrong or injury by one individual to another." Of course, the implication, if not the direct assertion, is that the business of dealing in securities has not
that character. Neither the principle nor the assertion is
very tangible. The first incidence of any evil from a
business or conduct is upon some individual and through
the individual (let us say individuals, for necessarily there
are more than one) upon the community, nor can it be
affected in any other way. Besides, it is for the State to
judge in such circumstances and the judgment and its

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

execution would have to be palpably arbitrary to justify
the. interference of the courts. Counsel, indeed, frankly
concedes the evil of "get-rich-quick" schemes and quotes
the banking commissioner of the State of Kansas for the
statement that the "Blue Sky" law of that State had
saved the people of the State $6,000,000 since its enactment and that between 1400 and 1500 companies had
been investigated by the department and less than 400 of
the number granted permits to sell securities in the State.
Counsel also quotes the confidence of the commissioner in
the efficacy of the law and that it will "eventually result
in the regulation and supervision of all kinds of companies
in the same manner as banks are now regulated and supervised."
Against this statement, however, counsel cites the view
expressed by the British Board of Trade of the inexpediency of an official investigation "into the soundness,
good faith, *and prospects" of companies. Upon this
difference in views we are not called upon to express an
opinion for, as we have said, the judgment is for the State
to make, and in the belief of evils and the necessity for
their remedy and the manner of their remedy the State has
determined that the business of dealing in securities shall
have administrative supervision, and 26 States have
expressed like judgments.
Much may be said against these judgments, as much
has been said, and decisions of the courts have been cited
against them. We are not insensible to the strength of
both, but we cannot stay the hands of government upon a
consideration of the impolicy of its legislation. Every
new regulation of business or conduct meets challenge and,
of course, must sustain itself against challenge and the
limitations that the Constitution imposes. But it is to be
borne in mind that the policy of a State and its expression
in laws must vary with circumstances. And this capacity
for growth and adaptation we said, through Mr. Justice

MERRICK v. HALSEY & CO.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Matthews, in Hurtado v. California, 110 U. S. 516, 530,
is the "peculiar boast and excellence of the common law."
It may be that constitutional law must have a more fixed
quality than customary law, or, as was said by Mr. Justice
Brewer, in Muller v. Oregon, 208 U. S. 412, 420, that "it is
the peculiar value of a written constitution that it places
in unchanging form limitations upon legislative action."
This, however, does not mean that the form is so rigid as to
make government inadequate to the changing conditions
of life, preventing its exertion except by amendments to
the organic law. We may feel the difficulties of the new
applications which are invoked, the strength of the contentions and the arguments which support or oppose them,
but our surest recourse is in what has been done, and in the
pending case we have analogies if not exact examples to
guide us. So guided and so informed, we think the statute
under review is within the power of the State. It burdens
honest business, it is true, but burdens it only that under
its forms dishonest business may not be done. This
manifestly cannot be accomplished by mere declaration;.
there must be conditions imposed and provision made for
their performance. Expense may thereby be caused and
inconvenience, but to arrest the power of the State by such
considerations would make it impotent to discharge its
function. It costs something to be governed.
But counsel say that the conditions imposed either are
not adequate to such purpose or transcend what is necessary for it. Indeed, it is asserted that the statute has not
that purpose, "but rather to prevent financial loss." The
assertion is against the declaration of the title of the statute and against the words of its body, and cannot be
justified by assigning to it the purpose of the law which it
amends; nor can we assent to the contention that such
purpose must be inferred from § 8 or other provisions
which point, it is said, to the probability of financial loss,
not fraud. The act must be considered from its declared

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

purpose and as a whole, not from detached portions which
can be easily overwhelmed when assigned a false character.
It is, however, said that, assuming the statute have
such purpose, the fraud referred to is not a proper object
for the police power, and it is asked, "Can the occasional
fraud, -that fraud which arises in the individual transaction, justify a law regulating the business of which the
single transaction is a part? Or must it be fraud which
is incidental to the business, a fraud which the business
itself, from its character and the manner in which it is
And,
generally conducted, invites and encourages?"
quoting from People ex rel. Tyroler v. Warden, 157
N. Y. 116, 123, "It is a novel legislation indeed that
attempts to take away from all the people the right to
conduct a business because there are wrongdoers in it."
To the latter we say the right to do business is not taken
away; the other we have already answered and need only
add that we cannot upon such consideratiohs limit the
power of the State. The State must adapt its legislation
to evils as they appear and is not helpless because of their
forms.
Engel v. O'Malley, 219 U. S. 128, was not decided because fraud was incidental to the business of banking by
individuals or partnerships but because fraud could be
practiced in it and that hence it could be licensed. Nor
was it decided in Allen v. Riley, 203 U. S. 347, that the
transfer of patent rights was of itself illegal or that any
particular transfer would be deceptive, but that some
transfers might be; and so a statute of Kansas which required any person selling or offering to sell such rights to
conform to certain requirements was declared valid. •Nor
did we hesitate to hold valid the regulation of the business
of employment agencies. It was a lawful business and
would not in instances be injuriously conducted; but in instances it might be, and because it might be, with injurious
consequences, its regulation was provided. This court sus-

MERRICK v. HALSEY & CO.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tained the regulation and the condition that it was to be
enforced according to the legal discretion of a commissioner. Brazee, v. Michigan, 241 U. S. 340. See also
Brodnax v. Missouri,219 U. S. 285. Other cases might be
cited of similar import.
It may be that there are better ways to meet the evils at
which the statute is directed and counsel have felt it
incumbent upon them to suggest a better way. We can
only reply that it is not our function to decide between
measures and upon a comparison of their utility and
adequacy determine their legality.
The contentions upon the discriminations of the statute
we rest upon the comment made on like contentions in the
other cases. A special emphasis, however, is put by appellees upon the adoption by the commission of "so-called
'standard manuals of investment."' The adoption of
these manuals, it is said, is justified by the commission
under § 3 which enumerates the securities that are exempt
from the law, among others, "(h) securities which are
listed in any standard manual of information approved by
said commission." The provision is attacked as "'the
Michigan idea' of providing an easy way out, of the act at
all times." And further, "It is not so much an exemption
of existing standard securities as a working exemption
available for new offerings to be listed as issued." And
again, "It is to be a permanent means of exempting new
securities from the act." Even this, it is asserted, is not all
of the power that is given for discrimination, for it is
pointed out that the commission may call for additional
information than that contained in the manuals and may,
pending the filing, of the information, suspend the sale of
the securities and may also suspend, either temporarily or
permanently, the sale of any securities listed in such
manuals after a hearing upon notice, if the commission
shall find that the sale of such securities would work a
fraud upon the purchasers thereof.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

The exemption and the provision are declared to be
unconstitutional and it seems to be intimated that in the
flexibility of what is considered their subterfuge a vicious
character is not only given to the act but constituted its
inducement, and therefore brings the act down with it,
for without it, it is insisted, the statute would not have
been enacted. We cannot agree either to the characterization of the provision or its effect. The first would
attribute a sinister purpose to the legislation of which
there is no indication, the second would give too much
importance to a subordinate provision, one that is only
ancillary or convenient to the main purpose.
The contentions based on the exemption and provision
are a part of that which accuses the law of conferring
arbitrary discretion upon the commission and committing
to its will the existence or extinction of the business. The
accusation is formidable in words bu it is the same that
has been made many times. It is answered by the comment and the cases cited in the opinion in the other cases.
Besides, we repeat, there is a presumption against wanton
action by the commission, and if there should be such disregard of duty a remedy in the courts is explicitly given,
and if it were not given it would necessarily be implied.
Objection is made that the title of the act does not indicate its provisions and that the act hence violates the
constitution of Michigan. The objection is untenable and
does not call for particular notice.
Answer to the contention that the statute is an interference with interstate commerce we leave to our opinion
in Nos. 438, 439 and 440, ante, 539.
Decree reversed and cause remandedfor further proceedings
in conformity with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS dissents.

