OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

242 U. S.

United States v. Perez, 9 Wheat. 579, 580; Dreyer v.
Illinois, 187 U. S. 71, 85-86. See United-States v. Riley,
5 Blatchf. 204, in which the facts were in substance identical with those here presented.
As to the contention concerning the denial of due process
and the right to jury trial, it is not disputed that in the
first instance a jury was legally impanelled. The argument is, however, that constitutional rights of the accused
were violated because after the order of dismissal and the
plea of not guilty there was a failure to impanel a jury,
although the same jury previously drawn was at once
sworn and tried the case. But we think the absolute
want of merit in the proposition is manifest from its mere
statement and is additionally demonstrated by what we
have previously said.
Affirmed.

GOSHEN MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. HUBERT A. MYERS MANUFACTURING COMPANY
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 60. Argued November 1, 2, 1916.-Decided December 11, 1916.
When patent rights have been infringed and sound reason exists for
believing that the infringement may be resumed in the future, the
case is remediable in equity by an injunction, with an accounting
for past profits.
Evidence to the effect that defendant company, as a result of plaintiff's
published claim of infringement, became financially embarrassed,
decided to cease manufacturing the device in question, sold all its
property (except its patent), and went out of business six months
before this suit was begun, held, insufficient to remove the menace

GOSHEN MFG. CO. v. MYERS MFG. CO.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of future injury arising from the facts that defendant retained the
junior patent under which the alleged infringements were practiced
and justified, did not disclaim intention to proceed under it, denied
infringement, put in issue plaintiff's patent and title, and shortly
before this bill was filed brought an action for damages based on
the published notice of infringement, averring that it was still in
the business of manufacturing the articles in question.
215 Fed. Rep. 594, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Fred L. Chappell, with whom Mr. Otis A. Earl was
on the briefs, for petitioner.
Mr. V. H. Lockwood for the respondent company, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Suit for infringement of a patent brought by petitioner,
whom we shall call complainant; against the respondents,
whom we shall call defendants, in the Circuit Court for the
District of Indiana, October 3, 1910.
The device of the controversy is a new and useful improvement in hoisting pulleys. It is alleged to have been
invented by Hubert A. Myers, one of the defendants, who,
after his application for a patent but before the issue
thereof, assigned all of his right and title to one Allen P.
Boyer, to whom a patent was issued January 21, 1908.
Boyer, on the twenty-eighth of September, 1910, sold and
assigned his right and title to the patent to complainant,
"together with all rights and choses in action which had
accrued to him, as well as those which might accrue for
infringement thereof, and all rights to sue for and recover
damages or profits for the same."
It is alleged that after the issue of the patent and before
the commencement of the suit defendants infringed the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

invention by constructing and selling a large number of
the pulleys, the exact number not known, and discovery is
therefore prayed; and it is alleged that defendants have a
large number on hand which they are offering for sale.
It is further alleged that large profits have been realized
by defendants which might have been obtained by complainant; how much exactly, however, is unknown, and
discovery is prayed. An accounting is also prayed and
preliminary and final injunctions.
It is alleged that Myers took part in promoting and
organizing the defendant corporation, that he is a large
stockholder and is actively engaged in directing and
managing the affairs of the company, being its general
manager.
It is also alleged that the trade and public have recognized the value and validity of the patent.
The defendants answered separately. Myers' answer is
not in the record. The defendant company's is, and denies
that the company had in any manner infringed the rights
of the complainant under the patent or that any great loss
or injury had accrued or will accrue to complainant by
reason of anything theretofore done by defendant or that
complainant had been or is being deprived of any gains or
profits to which it is lawfully entitled, by reason of any
act or any manufacture, use or sale of hoisting devices by
defendant.
And defendant alleges that it has not manufactured any
hoisting device of any kind since October, 1909, or sold or
had for sale any hoisting device since March, 1910, and
that complainant had knowledge of such facts before
bringing this suit; and denies that it was receiving or enjoying great gains or profits or had avowed its determination to continue manufacturing and selling any such devices.
It admits that Myers took part in organizing the defendant corporation, but denies that he is a stockholder or

GOSHEN MFG. CO. v. MYERS MFG. CO.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in management of its affairs; alleges that he has not been
a director or other officer since November 18th, 1909, and
that he ceased to be a stockholder on December 17th, 1909,
or connected with the company or interested therein.
The answer denies the other allegations of the bill, including the novelty of the device, specifically alleging that
it was not the result of invention but merely of mechanical
skill in bringing together parts of hoisting devices long
previously well known and described and published in
prior patents, a list of which is given, and that hoisting
devices in all substantial and patentable respects similar
to the alleged invention were known and publicly sold and
used in the United States, the instances of which are
related.
Abandonment of the alleged invention by Myers is
alleged, that complainant is estopped by reason of actions
had in the Patent Office from claiming a device other than
in the specific form shown and described in the patent,
that Myers was not the first inventor or discoverer of a
material and substantial part of the device of the patent
and that neither he nor the complainant has ever made or
filed a disclaimer thereof, to the great injury of defendants.
There was a replication filed to the answer.
Upon the issues thus formed by the pleadings proofs
were taken and a decree was entered that the suit be dismissed for want of equity. The decree gives no information upon which it was based.
The complainant took the case to the Circuit Court of
Appeals and that court affirmed the decree. Stating the
question presented, the court said: "The first and decisive
question in this appeal from a decree dismissing a bill in
equity after a full hearing is whether a court of equity or a
court of law is the proper forum in which to determine
complainant's rights."
It will be observed that defendant puts in issue the title
of complainant, the novelty of the device described in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

patent, alleges anticipation and precludes or narrows it by
the condition of the prior art. It denies infringement and
also irreparable loss or injury to complainant by anything
theretofore done by defendant or that complainant was
deprived or is being deprived of any great gains or profits
to which it is lawfully entitled by reason of any act or any
manufacture, use or sale of hoisting devices by defendant.
It appears from the facts found that Myers was the
inventor of complainant's device and that he subsequently
claimed to have invented another, different from and
superior to that of complainant which he assigned to
Boyer, and that the defendant company which Myers had
helped to organize began to manufacture the device of the
alleged second invention of Myers and made 25 in the
Spring of 1908, and the following Fall prepared to make
500 more, 300 of which were sold and the rest not completed. In August, 1909, the defendant company contracted to manufacture and sell to one Diedrich 500 additional carriers for the season of 1910. It was in testimony
that the 300 carriers sold by defendant were sold through
Diedrich as its agent.
In October, 1909, complainant published a newspaper
advertisement declaring defendant company to be an infringer of complainant's device and also sent a direct
notice to defendant to the same effect. In consequence of
this it is testified that the defendant company was unable
to proceed and it fulfilled its contract with Diedrich by
giving him permission to use its shop and materials to
finish the 200 uncompleted carriers and to manufacture the
300 more called for by his contract.
In December, 1909, Myers sold his stock to the other
stockholders and thereafter had no connection with the
company, and it is testified that the company neither
manufactured nor sold carriers after the notice of infringement, except as stated above, and that its president and
general manager notified complainants in February, 1910,

GOSHEN MFG. CO. v. MYERS MFG. CO.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that the company was practically dead. In March, 1910,
it is further testified, it sold its entire plant and all of its
property except only the letters patent No. 942,735, that
is, the patent for the second invention of Myers, since
which time it has been out of business and without factory
or office. It is also testified that in the latter part of 1909,
after notice of infringement, it had decided not to manufacture any more carriers.
From this testimony the Circuit Court of Appeals deduced that clearly as to Myers, after December, 1909, and
as to the defendant company, after March, 1910, at the
latest, no infringement of complainant's rights had been
committed or threatened.
We are unable to concur in the conclusion as to the
company. It sold its plant in March, 1910, but it retained
the patent under which prior alleged infringements had
been practiced and justified, and the right to proceed
under it is neither given up nor the intention to do so
denied. Besides, in September, 1910, the company sued
Boyer in the state court for the injury to its business by the
advertisement of infringement published a year before, and
in that suit the company made the following allegation:
That it "is a corporation duly organized under the laws of
the State of Indiana and is now and has been for more
than five years last past engaged in the business of manufacturing hay cars." We cannot ascribe this to the inadvertence or improvidence of counsel, for which the company was not responsible, as an expression of its intention.
It had infringed (we assume this for the sake of argument
only), it retained the patent under which it asserted the
right to infringe; there was injury inflicted, therefore, and
the means retained of further infringement; a denial of
complainant's right, and the assertion of a countervailing
right subrritted for legal judgment in the case under
review and besides in an independent action. We must
regard this conduct as a continuing menace, and we think

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

242 U. S.

complainant had a right to arrest its execution and recover
as well the profits of which it had been deprived, if any.
The case, therefore, does not fall within the rules of the
cases cited by the Circuit Court of Appeals and those
cited by defendants. In other words, further infringement was in effect threatened and could be reasonably
apprehended.
We have assumed that there was infringing done and
threatened, and, of course, both assumptions are based on
the validity and novelty of the device and that the defendant company's device-that is, the device of patent
No. 942,735-is an unsubstantial variation of it. Whether
the assumption is justified is yet to be decided and, in the
first instance, should be decided by the Circuit Court of
Appeals.
Its decree dismising the case is reversed and the case is
remanded for further proceedings in accordance with this
opinion.
Reversed.

UNITED STATES AND INTERSTATE COMMERCE
COMMISSION v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD
COMPANY.
UNITED STATES, INTERSTATE COMMERCE
COMMISSION, ET AL. v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Nos. 340, 341. Argued October 18, 19, 1916.-Decided December 11, 1916.

'rhe powers conferred on the Interstate Commerce Commission by the
Act to Regulate Commerce, as amended (Acts of February 4, 1887,
24 Stat. 379; March 2, 1889, 25 Stat. 855; June 29, 1906, 34 Stat.

