UNITED STATES v. NAVARRE.
Opinion of the Court.

discussed in the opinion of the Court of Claims, and we do
not feel called on to recapitulate them here.
Judgment ajffrmed.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN, MR. JUSTICE WHITE, MR. JUSTICE PEckHAm and MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, dissented.

UNITED STATES v. NAVARRE.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 393. Submitted January 9, 1899.-Decided February 20, 1S99.

Claims for depredations on the Pottawatomie Indians committed by Indians
were properly allowed by the Secretary of the. Interior under the treaty
of August 7, 1868, and are valid claims.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

-Mr. Charles C. B'inney and Xr. Assistant Attorney General
Pradt for the United States.
AMr. J. H. McGowan and Mr. John 'Wharton Clark for
Navarre.

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.
Claims for depredations committed on members of the
Pottawatomie tribe of Indians were referred to the Court of
Claims for adjudication by the acts of Congress hereafter
quoted..
The appellees in pursuance of said acts of Congress filed a
-petition setting forth claims for depredations committed on
them by white men, and prayed judgment therefor.
The proof showed depredations committed by Indians as
well as by white men, and the Court of Claims gave judgoment accordingly, and the United States appealed.
Only the claims allowed for property taken by Indians are
contested. They amount. to the sum of $5890.

OCTOBER TERAI, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

The right to recover was based on the tenth article of the
treaty with the Pottawatomie Indians, proclaimed August 7,
1868. 15 Stat. 531, 533. It provided as follows: "It is
further agreed that upon the presentation to the Department
of the Interior of the claims of said tribe for depredations
committed by others upon their stock, timber or other property, accompanied by evidence thereof, examination and report shall be made to Congress of the amount found to be
equitably due, in order that such action may be taken as shall
be just in the premises."
The court below found that "under said treaty these claims
were by the Secretary of the Interior transmitted, with the
evidence in support thereof, to Congress for its action thereon;
and by Congress, under the acts of March 3, 1885, c. 341, and
March 3, 1891, c. 543, said claims, with all evidence, documents, reports and other papers pertaining to same, were referred to this court to be adjudicated and determined." 23
Stat. 362, 372; 26 Stat. 989, 1011.
Nothing was done under the act of M arch 3, 1885. It
seems to be conceded that the reason was because the act required strictly legal evidence of the claims.
The act of M arch 3, 1891, is as follows:
"That the claims of certain individual members of the
Pottawatomie Nation of Indians, their heirs or legal representatives, for the depredations committed by others upon
their stock, timber or other property, reported to Congress
under the tenth article of the treaty of August 7, 1868, be,
and the same are hereby, referred to the Court of Claims for
adjudication. And said court shall, in determining said cause,
ascertain the amounts due and to whom due by reason of
actual damage sustained.
"And all papers, reports, evidence, records and proceedings
relating in any way to said claims now on file or of record in
the Department of the Interior or any other Department, or
on file or of record in the office of the secretary of the Senate
or the office of the clerk of the House of Representatives,
shall be delivered to said court, and in considering the merits
of the claims presented to the court all testimony and reports

COLLIER v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

of special agents or other officers and other papers now on file
or of record in the departments of Congress shall be considered by the court, and such value awarded thereto as in its
judgment is right and proper."
The contention of the United States depends on the meaning of the words in the act, "for the depredations committed
by others." Exactly the same words are used in article 10 of
the treaty, and the Secretary of the Interior, exercising his
duty, reported claims for depredations, by both Indians and
white men, to Congress for its action. They were, therefore,
claims for depredations "reported to Congress under the tenth
article of the treaty of August 7, 1868." But it is argued, and
ably so, that claims for depredations by other Indians were
improperly reported.
We do not think it necessary to review the argument in
detail. It is sufficient to say that Congress had before it when
it legislated all the claims, and did not discriminate between
them. If the meaning of the treaty was doubtful, it was competent for Congress to resolve the doubt and accept responsibility for all claims. It was natural enough for it to adopt
the interpretation of the Interior Department. At any rate,
it did not distinguish between the claims. Its language covers
those which came from the acts of Indians as well as those
-which came from the acts of white men.
Judgment afflirmed.

COLLIER v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIS.
No. 252. Submitted January 9,1899.-Decided February 20, 1S99.
rule that the
There is nothing in this case to take it out of the settled
all matters
determine
law
at
action
an
in
Claims
of
Court
the
of
findings
of fact.
a
Marks v. United States, 164 U. S. 297, followed to the point that when
was
depredation
a
that
alleges
Claims,
petition, filed in the Court of
with the
committed by an Indian or Indians belonging to a tribe in amity

