HENR IETTA MINING & 'ILLING

CO. v. GARDNER. "123

Syllabus.

The Court of Appeals seems to have been of opinion that
after the cattle arrived in Colorado, Congress had no power to
regulate their disposition, and hence that the regulations were
not binding. And the question of power involved the construction of a provision of the Constitution of the United
States. At the same time its judgment may fairly be said to
have rested on the view that the statutes did not assert the
authority of the United States, but conceded that of the State,
in this regard; and that the regulations were not within the
tepms of the statutes. But, if the case had reached the Supreme
Court, that tribunal might have ruled that the judgment could
not be sustained on these grounds, and then have considered
the grave constitutional question thereupon arising.
And although the Supreme Court might have applied the
rule that where a judgment rests on grounds not involving a
constitutional question it will not interfere, we cannot assume
that that court would not have taken jurisdiction, since it has
not so decided in this case, nor had any opportunity to do so.
We must decline to hold that it affirmatively appears from
the record that a decision could not have been had in the
highest court of the State, and, this being so, the writ of error
cannot be sustained. _Fisher v. Perkins, 122 U. S. 522.
Writ of error dismissed.

HENRIETTA MINING AND MILLING COMPANY v.
GARDNER.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF ARIZONA.
No. 140. Argued January 16, 1899.-Decided February 20, 1699.
The provisions in the Revised Statutes of Arizona of 1887, c. 42, ยง 3, concerning the commencement of process for attachment, are inconsistent
with those concerning the same subject contained in the act of March 6,
1891; and although chapter 42 is not expressly repealed by the act of
1891, it must be held to be repealed by the later act on the principle laid

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.
down in United States v. Tynen, 11 Wall. 88, 92, that "when there are two
acts on the same subject the rule is to give effect to both if possible;
but if the two are repugnant in any of their provisions, the latter act
without any repealing clause operates, to the extent of the repugnancy,
as a repeal of the first."

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Alb'. ,1'2'ank-A. Johnson for appellant.
Barnes filed a brief for same.
Air. S. 3.1. Stockslager for appellee.
was on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE MOIENNA

Mrt. William H1.

Mr. George C. Heard

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court
of the Territory of Arizona, affirming a judgment of the district court of the fourth judicial district, in and for Yavapai
County, for $12,332.08 in favor of appellee and against appellant, who was plaintiff in error below. The action was upon
an open account and a large number of assigned accounts.
An attachment was sued out and the mines and mining property of appellant company were seized. Judgment was rendered by default, and the property attached ordered sold.
The judgment is attacked on two grounds: (1) That there
was no personal service on appellant; (2) that the attachment
was void because the writ was issued before the issuance of
summons.
It is conceded that the appellant is an Illinois corporation,
and that there was no personal service upon it. Was the
attachment issued in accordance with the statutes of Arizona?
If it was not, the judgment must be reversed. Pe2noyer v.
ffef, 95 U. S. 714.
The record shows that the complaint was filed December 4,
1894; that on the 24th of that month affidavit and bond for
attachment were filed and the writ was issued. The return
shows the seizure of the property on the 26th of December,
the day summons was issued.

HENRIETTA MINING & MILLING CO. v. GARDNER. 125
Opinion of the Court.

The Revised Statutes of Arizona of 1887, chapter 1 of title
IV, provided for attachments and garnishments as follows:
"40 (Sec. 1). The judges and clerks of the district courts
and justices of the peace may issue writs of original attachment returnable to their respective courts, upon the plaintiff,
his agent or attorney, making an affidavit in writing, stating
one or more of the following grounds:
"1. That the defendant is justly indebted to the plaintiff,
and the amount of the demand; and,
"2. That the defendant is not a resident of the Territory,
or is a foreign corporation, or is acting as such ; or,
"3. That he is about to remove permanently out of the
Territory, and has refused to pay or secure the debt due
the plaintiff; or,
"4. That he secretes himself, so that the ordinary process
of law cannot be served on him ; or,
"5. That he has secreted his property, for the purpose of
defrauding his creditors; or,
"6. That he is about to secrete his property for the purpose
of defrauding his creditors; or,
"7. That he is about to remove his property out of the
Territory, without leaving sufficient remaining for the payment of his debts; or,
"8. That he is about to remove his property, or a part
thereof, out of the county where the suit is brought, with
intent to defraud his creditors; or,
"9. That he has disposed of his property, in whole or in
part, with intent to defraud his creditors; or,
"10. That he is about to dispose of his property with intent
to defraud his creditors; or,
"11. That he is about to convert his property, or a part
thereof, into money, for the purpose of placing it beyond
the reach of his creditors; or,
"12. That the debt is due for property obtained under false
pretences.
"141 (Sec. 2). The affidavit shall further state:
"1. That the attachment is not sued out for the purpose of
injuring or harassing the defendant; and,

OCTOBER TERf, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

"2. That the plaintiff will probably lose his debt unless
such attachment is issued.
"42 (See. 3). No such attachment shall issue until the suit
has been duly instituted, but it may be issued in a proper
case either at the commencement of the suit or at any time
during its progress.
"43 (See. 4). The writ of attachment above provided for
may issue, although the plaintiff's debt or demand be not due,
and the same proceeding shall be had thereon as in other
cases, except that no final judgment shall be rendered against
the defendant until such debt or demand shall become due."
Paragraph 649 provides that "all civil suits in courts of
record shall be commenced by complaint filed in the office
of the clerk of such court." Therefore, if paragraph 42 (section 3) was in force at the time the writ of attachment was
issued, to wit, on the 24th of December, 1S94, there is no
doubt of the validity of the writ. But it is contended that
the paragraph was not in force, because, it is claimed, it had
been repcaled by an act passed by the legislative assembly of
the Territory, approved March 6, 1891.
This act is entitled "An act to amend chapter 1, title 4,
entitled 'Attachments and garnishments,' Revised Statutes of
Arizona, 1887." Section 1 is as follows:
"SecTioN 1. Paragraph 40, being section 1, chapter 1, title
4, Revised Statutes of Arizona, 1887, is hereby amended so as
to read as follows:
1The plaintiff at the time of issuing the summons, or at
any time afterward, may have the property of the defendant
attached, as security for the satisfaction of any judgment
that may be recovered, unless the defendant gives security to
pay such judgment as in this act provided in the following
cases

"First. In an action upon a contract, express or implied,
for the direct payment of money where the contract is made
or is payable in this Territory, and is not secured by any
mortgage or lien upon real or personal property, or any pledge
of personal property.

"Second. When any suit be pending for damages, and the

HENRIETTA M.INING & MILLING CO. v. GARDNER.

127

Opinion of the Court.

defendant is about to dispose of or remove his property
beyond the jurisdiction of the court in which the action is
pending, for the purpose of defeating the collection of the
judgment.
"Third. In any action upon a contract, express or implied,
against the defendant not residing in this Territory or a foreign .corporation doing business in this Territory.
"SEC. 2. Paragraph 41, being section 2, chapter 1, title 4,
Revised Statutes of Arizona, 1887, is hereby amended so as to
read as follows:
"Section 2. The clerk of the court or justice of the peace
must issue the writ of attachment upon receiving an affidavit
by or on behalf of the plaintiff, showing"First. That the defendant is indebted to the plaintiff
upon a contract, express or implied, for the direct payment of
money, and that such contract was made or is payable in this
Territory, and that the payment of the same has not been
secured as provided in section 1 of this act, and shall specify
the character of the indebtedness, that the same is due to
plaintiff over and above all legal set-offs or counter claims,
and that demand has been made for the payment of the
amount due; or,
"Second. That the defendant is indebted to the plaintiff,
stating the amount and character of the debt; that the same
is due over and above all legal set-offs and counter claims;
and that the defendant is a non-resident of this Territory or
is a foreign corporation doing business in this Territory; or,
"Third. That an action is pending between the parties, and
that defendant is about to remove his property beyond the
jurisdiction of the court to avoid payment of the judgment;
and,
"Fourth. That the attachment is not sought for. wrongful
or malicious purpose, and the action is not prosecuted to hinder or delay any creditor of the defendant.
"SEC. 3. Paragraph 43, being section 4, chapter 1, title 4,
Revised Statutes of Arizona, 1887, is hereby repealed.
"SEc. 4. Paragraph 47, being section 8, chapter 1, title 4,
Revised Statutes of Arizona, 1887, is hereby amended by

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.

.

Opinion of the Court.

striking out the word 'original' where it occurs in the first
line of said section.
"SEC. 5. Paragraph 50, being section 11, chapter 1, title 4,
Revised Statutes of Arizona, 1887, is hereby amended by
striking out the word 'repleviable' where it occurs in line five
of said section.
"SEC. 6. All acts and parts of acts in conflict with this act
are hereby repealed, and this act shall take effect and be in
force from and after its passage.
"Approved March 6, 1891."
The amending act is more than a revision of the provisions
of the statute of 1887 : it is a substitute for them. It, however, does not expressly repeal paragraph 42. Does it do so
by implication . Expressing the rule of repeal by implication,
r. Justice Strong, in flenderson's Tobacco Company, 11
Wall. 657, said:
"Statutes are indeed sometimes held to be repealed by subsequent enactments, though the latter contain no repealing
clauses. This is always the rule when the provisions of the
latter acts are repugnant to those of the former, so far as they
are repugnant. The enactment of provisions inconsistent with
those previously existing manifests a clear intent to abolish
the old law. In United States v. Tynen it was said by Mr.
Justice Field, that 'when there are two acts upon the same
subject, the rule is to give effect to both, if possible. But if
the two are repugnant in any of their provisions the latter
act, without any repealing clause, operates to the extent of
the repugnancy as a repeal of the first; and even where two
acts are not, in express terms, repugnant, yet, if the latter act
covers the whole subject of the first, and embraces new provisions, plainly showing that it was intended as a substitute
for the first act, it will operate as a repeal of that act.' For
this several authorities were cited, some of which have been
cited on the present argument. This is, undoubtedly, a sound
exposition of the law. But it must be observed that the doctrine asserts no more than that the former statute is impliedly
repealed, so far as the provisions of the subsequent statute are
repugnant to it, or so far as the latter statute, making new

HENRIETTA MINING &

ILLING CO. v. GARDNER.

129

Opinion of the Court.

provisions, is plainly intended as a substitute for it. Where
the powers or directions under several acts are such as may
well subsist together, an implication of repeal cannot be
allowed."
May paragraph 40, as amended, subsist with paragraph 42?
Certainly not, if the former prescribes the time when the
writ of attachment may be issued, and not the time when
it may be levied. Its identical language was section 120
of the Practice Act of California, and was continued as 537 of
the Code of Civil Procedure of said State, and was such at
the time the act of 1891 of Arizona was passed. When part
of the Practice Act, it was construed by the Supreme Court
of California in the case of Low v. Henry, 9 California, 538.
Mr. Justice Burnett, speaking for the court, said:
"The twenty-second section of the Practice Act provides
that a suit shall be commenced by the filing of a complaint
and the issuance of a summons; and the one hundred and
twentieth section allows the plaintiff, ' at the time of issuing
the summons, or at any time afterwards,' to have the property of the defendants attached. These provisions must be
strictly followed, and the attachment, if issued before the
summons, is a nullity. Ex parte Cohen, 6 California, 3i8.
The issuance of the summons afterwards cannot cure that
which was void from the beginning."
Counsel for appellee, however, urges that this decision is
explained by the fact that by the California laws a suit was
commenced by filing a comilaint and the issuance of a summons, and that the decision of the court was that the attachment having been issued before summons was issued, it was
issued before the commencement of suit, and hence was void
on that ground. We think not. "To have the property of
the defendant attached" was construed to mean the issuance
of the attachment, and it was held to be a nullity if done
before the summons was issued. If, however, ambiguity could
arise under the Practice Act and the Code of Civil Procedure
as originally passed, it could not arise after the code was
amended in 1874, and as it existed at the time of the Arizona
enactment of 1891. At that time the issuance of summons
VOL. CLXXnlI-9

OCTOBER TERI, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

was not the commencement of the action. The amendment
of 1874 (Amendment of the Codes 1873-4, 296) provided that
"civil actions in the courts of the State are commenced by
filing a complaint," (section 405,) and summons may be issued
at any time within one year thereafter (section 406). Section
537, which provided for the issuance of an attachment and
which was adopted by the Arizona statute, was not changed.
Notwithstanding the amendment of 1874, we have been cited
to no case reversing or modifying -Low v. Henry, nor is it
claimed that the practice did not continue in accordance with
the ruling in that case. Indeed, how could there be change?
The provisions of the code did not need further interpretation. The procedure was clearly defined. An action was
commenced by filing a complaint. Within a year summons
might be issued, and when issued the plaintiff might have
the property of the defendant attached, that is, have an
attachment issued.
The language of paragraph 40, as amended in 1891, having
been taken from the California code, it is presumed that it
was taken with the meaning it had there, and hence we hold
it worked a repeal of paragraph 42 of the Revised Statutes
of Arizona of 1S87; and the judgment of the Supreme Court
of the Territory is
Reversed and the cause remandedforfurther proceedings in
accordancewith this opinion.

