OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

was not the producer of the cane, since the two are distinct
and separate articles of production.
It results from this that the decree of the Supreme Court of
Louisiana must be reversed, and the cases remanded to
that court for further proceedings in consonance with
this opinion.

ST.

LOUIS, IRON MOUNTAIN AND ST.
RAILWAY COMPANY v. PAUL.

PAUL

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.

No. 120. Submitted January 10, 1899. -Decided

March 6, 1899.

The act of the legislature of Arkansas of March 25, 1889, entitled an act to
provide for the protection of servants and employ~s of railroads, is not
in conflict with the provisions of the Constitution of the United States.

THIS action was commenced in a justice's court in Saline
Township, Saline County, Arkansas, by Charles Paul against
the St. Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern Railway Company,
a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Arkansas, and owning and operating a railroad within that State, to
recover $21.80 due him as a laborer, and a penalty of $1.25 per
day for failure to pay him what was due him when he was
discharged. The case was carried by appeal to the Circuit
Court of Saline County and there tried de novo. Defendant
demurred to so much of the complaint as sought to recover
the penalty on the ground that the act of the general assembly of Arkansas entitled "An act to provide for the protection
of servants and employ~s of railroads," approved March 25,
1889, Acts Ark. 1889, 76, which provided therefor, was in
violation of articles five and fourteen of the Amendments to
the Constitution of the United States, and also in violation of
the constitution of the State of Arkansas. The demurrer was
overruled, and defendant answered, setting up certain matters
not material here, and reiterating in its third paragraph the

ST. LOUIS, IRON MOUNTAIN &c. RAILWAY v. PAUL. 405
Statement of the Case.

objection that the act was unconstitutional and void. To this
paragraph plaintiff demurred, and the demurrer was sustained.
The case was then heard by the court, the parties having
waived a trial by jury, and the court found that the plaintiff
was entitled to recover the sum claimed and the penalty at
the rate of daily wages from the date of the discharge until
the date of the commencement of the suit, and entered judgment accordingly. Defendant appealed to the Supreme Court
of the State of Arkansas, which affirmed the judgment, 64:
Arkansas, 83, and this writ of error was then brought.
The act in question is as follows:
" SECTION 1. Whenever any railroad company or any company, corporation or person engaged in the business of operating or constructing any railroad or railroad bridge, or any
contractor or subcontractor engaged in the construction of
any such road or bridge, shall discharge, with or without cause,
or refuse to further employ any servant or employs thereof,
the unpaid wages of any such servant or employ6, then earned
at the contract rate, without abatement or deduction, shall be,
and become due and payable on the day of such discharge, or
refusal to longer employ; and if the same be not paid on such
day then, as a penalty for such non-payment, the wages of
such servant or employs shall continue at the same rate until
paid. Provided, Such wages shall not continue more than
sixty days, unless an action therefor shall be commenced within
that time.
"SEC. 2. That no such servant or employs who secretes or
absents himself to avoid payment to him, or refuses to receive
the same when fully tendered, shall be entitled to any benefit
under this act for such time as he so avoids payment.
"SEc. 3. That any such servant or employs whose employment is for a definite period of time, and who is discharged
without cause before the expiration of such time may, in
addition to the penalties' prescribed by this act, have an
action against any such employer for any damages he may
have sustained by reason of such wrongful discharge, and
such action may be joined with an action for unpaid wages
and penalty.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

"SEc. 4. That this act shall take effect and be in force from
and after its passage."

AMr. John F. Dillon, M'tr. Winslow S. Pierce and M r. David
D. IDuncan for plaintiff in error.
AMr. A. ff. Garland and Aff.
in error.
AIR. CHIEF JUSTICE

1?. C. Garlandfor defendant

FULLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
Plaintiff in error was a corporation duly organized under
the laws of Arkansas and engaged in operating a railroad in
that State.
The state constitution provided: "Corporations may be
formed under general laws; which laws may, from time to
time, be altered or repealed. The general assembly shall have
the power to alter, revoke or annul any charter of incorporation now existing and revocable at the adoption of this constitution, or any that may hereafter be created, whenever, in
their opinion, it may be injurious to the citizens of this State;
in such manner, however, that no injustice shall be dane to the
corporators."
Art. XII, ยง 6. This constitution was adopted
in 1874, but, prior to that, the constitution of 1868 had declared: "The general assembly shall pass no special act conferring corporate powers. Corporations may be formed under
general laws; and all such laws may, from time to time, be
altered or repealed." Art. V, ยง 48.
In Leep v. Railway Co., 58 Arkansas, 407, section one of
the act of March 25, 1889, was considered by the Supreme
Court of Arkansas, and was held unconstitutional so far as
affecting natural persons, but sustained in respect of corporations as a valid exercise of the right reserved by the
constitution "to alter, revoke or annul any charter of incorporation."
The court conceded that the legislature could not under the
power to amend take from corporations the right to contract,

ST. LOUIS, IRON MOUNTAIN &c. RAILWAY v. PAUL. 407
Opinion of the Court.

but adjudged that it could regulate that right by amendment
when demanded by the public interest, though not to such an
extent as to render it ineffectual, or substantially impair the
object of incorporation.
As the constitution expressly provided that the power to
amend might be exercised whenever in the opinion of the legislature the charter might "be injurious to the citizens," and
as railroad corporations were organized for a public purpose;
their roads were public highways; and they were common
carriers; it was held that whenever their charters became
obstacles to such legislative regulations as would make their
roads subserve the public interest to the fullest extent practicable, they would be in that respect injurious, and might be
amended; and as it was the duty of the companies to serve
the public as common carriers in the most efficient manner.
practicable, the legislature might so change their charters as
to secure that result. And the court said: "If the legislature, in its wisdom, seeing that their employ~s are and will
be persons dependent on their labor for a livelihood, and unable to work on a credit, should find that better servants and
service could be secured by the prompt payment of their wages
on the termination of their employment, and that the purpose
of their creation would thereby be more nearly accomplished,
it might require them to pay for the labor of their employis
when the same is fully performed, at the end of their employment. If it be true that in doing so it would interfere with
contracts which are purely and exclusively private, and thereby
limit their right to contract with individuals, it would nevertheless, under such circumstances, have the right to do so under
the reserved power to amend." But the court added that it
did not follow that the legislature could by amendment fix or
limit the compensation of employ~s, and particularly not as
the right to amend was to be exercised so "that no injustice
shall be done to the corporators;" that, however, this act was
not obnoxious to that objection, as it left "to the corporations the right of making contracts with their employ6s on
advantageous terms."
In respect of the provision that the unpaid wages then

OCTOBER TERMI, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

earned at the contract rate were to become due and payable
on the cessation of the employment, "without abatement or
deduction," the court held that that did not "require the corporation to pay the employ6 all the wages to which he would
have been entitled had he fully performed his contract up to
the time of his discharge, notwithstanding he had failed to do so,
and had damaged the corporation thereby;" but that it meant
"that the unpaid wages earned at the contract rate at the
time of the discharge shall be paid without discount on account
of the payment thereof before the time they were payable
according to the terms of the contract of employment."
Construing the statute thus, and, by elimination, confining
it to the corporations described, its validity was sustained as
within the reserved power of amendment; and the case was
approved and followed in that before us.
The scope of the power to amend, and the general subject
of the lawfulness of limitations on the right to contract were
considered at length, with full citation of authority, in both
these decisions.
The contention is that as to railroad corporations organized
prior to its passage, the act was void because in violation of
the Fourteenth Amendment. Corporations are the creations
of the State, endowed with such faculties as the State bestows
and subject to such conditions as the State imposes, and if
the power to modify their charters is reserved, that reservation is a part of the contract, and no change within the legitimate exercise of the power can be said to impair its obligation;
and as this amendment rested on reasons deduced from the
peculiar character of the business of the corporations affected
and the public nature of their functions, and applied to all
alike, the equal protection of the law was not denied. _Missouri PacVfic Railway v. Mackey, 127 U. S. 205.
The question then is whether the amendment should have
been held unauthorized because amounting to a deprivation of
property forbidden by the Federal Constitution.
The power to amend "cannot be used to take away property already acquired under the operation of the charter, or
to deprive the corporation of the fruits actually reduced to

ST. LOUIS, IRON MOUNTAIN &c. RAILWAY v. PAUL. 409
Opinion of the Court.

possession of contracts lawfully made," Waite, 0. J., Sinking
Fund cases, 99 U. S. 700; but any alteration or amendment
may be made "that will not defeat or substantially impair
the object of the grant, or any rights which have vested under it, and that the legislature may deem necessary to secure
either that object or other public or private rights," Gray, J.,
Commissioners v. Holyoke Mater Power Company, 104 Mass.
446, 451; Greenwood v. Freight Co., 105 U. S. 13; Spring
Valley Water Works v. Schottler, 110 U. S. 347.
This act was purely prospective in its operation. It did
not interfere with vested rights, or existing contracts, or
destroy, or sensibly encroach upon, the right to contract,
although it did impose a duty in reference to the payment of
wages actually earned, which restricted future contracts in
the particular named.
In view of the fact that these corporations were clothed
with a public trust, and discharged duties of public consequence, affecting the community at large, the Supreme Court
held the regulation, as promoting the public interest in the
protection of employ~s to the limited extent stated, to be
properly within the power to amend reserved under the state
constitution.
Inasmuch as the right to contract is not absolute, but may
be subjected to the restraints demanded by the safety and
welfare of the State, we do not think that conclusion in its
application to the power to amend can be disputed on the
ground of infraction of the Fourteenth Amendment. Orient
-InsuranceCompany v. Daggs, 172 U. S. 557; Jlolden v. Hardy,
169 U. S. 366; St. Louis & San Francisco Railway v. 3Iatthews, 165 U. S.1.
Gulf, Coloradoand Santa F6 Railway v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150,
159, is not to the contrary, and was properly distinguished
from this case by the Supreme Court of Arkansas. There a
state statute provided for the assessment of an attorney's fee
of not exceeding ten dollars against railroad companies for failure to pay certain debts, and the exaction was held to be a
penalty, although no specific duty wa imposed for the nonperformance of which it was inflicted. This court said-: "The

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

statute arbitrarily singles out one class of debtors and punishes
it for a failure to perform certain duties -duties which are
equally obligatory upon all debtors; a punishment not visited
by reason of the failure to comply with any proper police regulations, or for the protection of the laboring classes, or to prevent litigation about trifling matters, or in consequence of any
special corporate privileges bestowed by the State." The conclusion was that the subjection of railroad companies only, to
the penalty, was purely arbitrary, not justifiable on any reasonable theory of classification, and that the statute denied
the equal protection of the law demanded by the Fourteenth
Amendment. In this case the act was passed "for the protection of servants and employ~s of railroads," and was upheld
as an amendment of railroad charters, such exercise of the
power reserved being justified on public considerations, and a
duty was specially imposed for the failure to discharge which
the penalty was inflicted. The penalty was sustained because
the requirement was valid.
J-udgmaent adffirmed.

PRICE v. FORREST.
ERROR TO THE COURT

OF ERRORS

AND

APPEALS

OF

THE STATE

OF N1EW JERSEY.

No. 105. Argued January 3, 4, 1899. -Decided March 6, 1S99.
In 1850 Price, a purser in the Navy and fiscal agent for that Department,
advanced $75,000 to the Government, from his private fortune, to meet
emergencies. His right to receive it back was questioned, and was not
settled until 1891, when Congress passed an act directing the Secretary
of the Treasury to adjust his account " on principles of equity and jus;
tice," and to pay to him ' or to his heirs" the sum found due him on such
adjustment. It was adjusted by the Secretary, and in August, 1892, it was
decided that there was due to Price from the United States $76,204.08.
Meanwhile Forrest had recovered in the courts of New Jersey, of which
Price was a citizen and resident, a judgment against him for $17,000.
Forrest died in 1860 without having collected the amount of this judgment. *In 1874 his widow, having been appointed administratrix of his

