CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.

PIERCE v. TENNESSEE COAL, IRON AND RAILROAD COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR

THE FIFTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 174. Argued and submitted January 19, 20, 1899.-Decided February 20, 1899.

An agreement in writing between a mining company and a machinist stated
that while in its employ he was seriously hurt under circumstances which
he claimed, and it denied, made it liable to him in damages; that six months
after the injury, both parties being desirous of settling his claim for
damages, the company agreed to pay him regular wages and to furnish
him with certain supplies while he was disabled, and carried out that
agreement for six months, at the end of which, after he had resumed
work, it was agreed that the company should give him such work as
he could do, and pay him wages as before his injury, and this agreement
was kept by both parties for a year; and then, in lieu of the previous
agreements, a new agreement was made that his wages "from this date"
should be a certain sum monthly, and he should receive certain supplies,
and he on his part released the company from all liability for his injury,
and agreed that this should be a full settlement of all his claims against
the company. Held, that the last agreement was not terminable at the
end of any month at the pleasure of the company, but bound it to pay
him the wages stipulated, and to furnish him the supplies agreed, so
long as his disability to do full work continued; and that, if the compan discharged him from its service without cause, he was entitled to
VOL. CLXXIII-

1

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.
elect to treat the contract as absolutely and finally broken by the company, and, in an action against it upon the contract, to introduce evidence of his age, health and expectancy of life, and, if his disability
was permanent, to recover the full value of the contract to him at the
time of the breach, including all that he would have received in the
future as well as in the past if the contract had been kept, deducting
however any sum that he might have earned already or might thereafter
earn, as well as the amount of any loss that the defendant sustained by
the loss of his services without its fault.

Tins was an action brought January 22, 1892, in the circuit court of Jefferson County in the State of Alabama, by
Frank H. Pierce, a citizen of the State of Alabama, against
the Tennessee Coal, Iron and Railroad Company, a corporation of the State of Tennessee, doing business in the State
of Alabama, upon a written contract, signed by the parties,
and in the following terms:
"Pratt M ines, Ala. 4th June, 1890. Whereas I, F. I. Pierce,
while in the employ of the Tennessee Iron, Coal and Railroad
Company, Pratt Mines Division, as a machinist, was seriously
hurt by a trip of train cars on the main slope of the mine
known as Slope No. 2, and operated by the Tennessee Coal,
Iron and Railroad Company, under circumstances which I
claim render the said company liable to me for damages; but
whereas they disclaim any liability for said accident or the
injuries to me resulting from same; and both parties being desirous of settling and compromising said matter; and
whereas the said Tennessee Coal, Iron and Railroad Company
day of November,
did make me a proposition on the
21st day of May,
on
the
occurred
having
accident
1888, said
1888, that they would furnish me such supplies from the commissary at No. 2 prison, as I might choose to take, pay me
regular wages while I was disabled, and give me my coal and
wood for fuel at my dwelling, and the benefit of the convict
garden at No. 2; and whereas said proposition was accepted
by me, and carried out by the said company; and whereas in
May, 1889, after I had resumed work, a further proposition
was made to me to give me work, such as I could do, paying
me therefor the wages paid me before said accident, that is,
$60 per month, and in addition free house rent, [or in lieu of

PIERCE v. TENNEgSEE COAL &c. RAILROAD CO.

3

Statement of the Case.

house rent a certain amount of supplies from the convict commissary at No. 2 prison, which supplies were to amount to
about the sum paid by me for house rent;] and whereas said
agreement has been faithfully kept by both parties; and
whereas on the 4th day of June, 1890, it is mutually agreed
between myself and the said company that it will be better
to give me ihe house rent than the supplies of about equal
amount from the commissary; now therefore it is agreed, in
view of the above propositions, which have been faithfully
carried out, that my wages from this date are to be $65 a
month, and in addition I am to have, free of charge, my coal
and wood necessary for my household use at my dwelling,
and the same benefit from the garden as is had by others who
are allowed the garden privilege; and I on my part agree and
bind myself to release the said company from any and all
liability for said accident, or from the injuries resulting to me
from it or from the effects of it, and agree that this is to be a
full and satisfactory settlement of any and all claims which I
might have against said company."
The complaint set out the contract, except the clause above
printed in brackets; and alleged that by this contract the
defendant became liable to pay the plaintiff monthly during
his life the wages therein stipulated, and to furnish him with
coal and wood and allow him the privilege of the garden, as
therein agreed; that the plaintiff had always been ready and
offered to do for the defendant such work given to him as he
was able to do, and had labored at the same for such reasonable time as he was able to work and bound to work under
this contract; that by the injuries received by him from the
accident mentioned therein he was permanently disabled in
the use of his legs and hands, and otherwise so injured as to
be incapacitated to do more work than he had done and had
offered to do; but that the defendant, without any reasonable
ground for so doing, abandoned the contract and refused to
carry it out, claiming that the defendant was under no obligation to pay to the plaintiff the wages therein stipulated longer
than suited its pleasure; and had wholly and purposely disregarded and refused to abide by the obligations of the contract

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

for the period of six months next before the commencement
of the suit, and had entirely abandoned the contract and discharged the plaintiff from its service. The plaintiff claimed
damages, in the sum of $50,000, for the defendant's breach
and abandonment of the contract.
The defendant demurred to the complaint, upon the ground
that the contract set out therein was one of hiring, terminable
at the will of either party, and not one of hiring for life, as
alleged in the complaint; and that it appeared, from the obligations of the complaint, that the defendant, in terminating
the contract of hiring, had only exercised its legal right under
the contract. The court sustained the demurrer, and, the
plaintiff declining to amend his complaint, rendered judgment
for the defendant; and the plaintiff on February 21, 1894, appealed from that judgment to the Supreme Court of Alabama.
The record transmitted to this court does not show any further proceedings in the Supreme Court of Alabama. But the
official reports of its decisions show that at November term,
1895, it reversed that judgment, and remanded the case to the
county court. Pierce v. Tennessee Coal Co., 110 Alabama,
533. And the record before this court necessarily implies
that fact, by setting forth that in Mlarch, 1896, on motion of
the defendant, suggesting that from prejudice and local influence it would not be able to obtain justice in the state courts,
the case was removed from the county court into the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern Division of the
Northern District of Alabama; and a motion to remand the
case to the state court was made by the plaintiff (on what
ground did not appear in the record) and was overruled.
In the Circuit Court of the United States, on January 4,
1897, the following proceedings took place: The demurrer to
the complaint was renewed by the defendant, and overruled
by the court. The plaintiff then amended his complaint by
inserting, in the copy of the contract set forth therein, the
words above printed in brackets; and a demurrer to the
amended complaint was filed and overruled. In answer to
this complaint the defendant filed two pleas: 1st. A denial
of each and every allegation of the complaint; 2d. "The de-

CO.
PIERCE v. TENN1ESSEE COAL &c. RAILROAD

5

Statement of the Case.

that the
fendant, for further answer to the complaint, says
in the
out
set
plaintiff, under and by the terms of the contract
during
defendant
complaint, contracted to perform for the
in conthe term thereof such service as he was able to perform,
and
therein;
sideration for the promises made by the defendant
able
became
the defendant avers that the plaintiff thereafter
perform
to perform service for the defendant, and did in fact
engaged
such service for some time thereafter, and that, while
'voluntarily
in the performance of such service, the plaintiff
such
perform
further
to
refused
and without excuse therefor
performing
fact
in
was
and
perform
service as he was able to
the defor the defendant, as required by said contract, and
service;
its
from
plaintiff
the
fendant thereupon discharged
to comply
and the defendant avers that the plaintiff failed
contract."
said
by
him
with the conditions imposed upon
to
demurred
and
plea;
The plaintiff joined issue on the first
the
to
go
not
did
it
the second plea, upon the ground that
to the
whole consideration of the contract, and was no answer
deThe
entire action; and the court sustained his demurrer.
fendant, for further answer, and by way of recoupment,
and
pleaded that on May 3, 1891, the plaintiff, voluntarily
able
was
he
without excuse, refused to perform such labor as
as
defendant,
the
for
performing
fact
in
to perform and was
continued
required by the contract; and since that time had
such serperiformed
fact
in
not
had
to refuse to perform and
in
defendant
the
of
damage
the
to
vice, or any part thereof ;
the sum of $50,000.
allowed
A bill of exceptions, tendered by the plaintiff and
the foljury
the
before
trial
by the court, showed that at the
lowing proceedings were had:
contract
The plaintiff introduced and read in evidence the
allegathe
prove
sued on, and introduced evidence tending to
at the
that,
tions of the complaint. He also offered evidence
employment
time of his discharge by the defendant from its
he was
in May, 1891, he was fifty-five years of age, and that
to no
then and had since been in good health, and addicted
and expecthabits of drinking or otherwise, affecting his health
mortality
of
tables
American
the
ancy of life; and introduced

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

used by insurance companies, showing his expectancy of life
at the time of his discharge, and at the time of the trial.
But the court ruled that no recovery could be allowed on
the contract, beyond the instalments of wages due and in
default up to the date of the trial; and, upon the defendant's
motion, excluded all evidence of the plaintiff's age, health and
expectancy of life, "on the ground that it was immaterial and
irrelevant, and because damages for the expectancy of life was
a matter too vague and uncertain to be allowed."
The plaintiff duly excepted to the ruling and to the exclusion of evidence; and, to present the same point, asked the
court to give, and duly excepted to its refusal to give, the
following instruction to the jury: "If the defendant, after
making the contract sued on, and before the suit, refused
further to pay the plaintiff and to furnish the articles stipulated to be furnished, and refused to employ the plaintiff, and
discharged him, the plaintiff is entitled to the full benefit of
his contract, which is the present value of the money agreed
to be paid and the articles to be furnished under the contract
for the period of his life, if his disability is permanent, less
such sum as the jury may find the plaintiff may be able to
earn in the future, and may have been able heretofore to earn,
and less such loss as the defendant may have sustained from
the loss of the plaintiff's service without the defendant's
fault."
The defendant also tendered and was allowed a bill of
exceptions, presenting substantially, though in different form,
the questions involved in the plaintiff's case, and the contents
of which therefore need not be particularly stated.
The jury returned a verdict for the plaintiff in the sum of
$5893, upon which judgment was rendered. Each party sued
out a writ of error from the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Fifth Circuit.
That court was of opinion that the contract sued on was
for "an employment by the month, and therefore, like every
other such employment, subject to be discontinued, at the will
of either party, at the expiration of any month, or at any time
for adequate cause;" and consequently that there was error

PIERCE v. TENNESSEE COAL &c. RAILROAD CO.

7

Opinion of the Court.

in overruling the demurrer to the complaint; and upon that
ground, without passing upon any other question in the case,
reversed the judgment of the Circuit Court of the United
States, and remanded the case to that court for further proceedings, Judge Pardee dissenting. 52 U. S. App. 355, 365.
The plaintiff thereupon applied for and obtained a writ of
certiorari from this court. 168 U. S. 709.
.r. FIalker Percy for the Tennessee Coal, Iron and Railroad Company. .r. William I. Grubb was on his brief.
-Mr. W. A. Gunter, for Pierce, submitted on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.

In the Circuit Court of the United States, a verdict and
judgment were rendered for the plaintiff for a less amount
of damages than he claimed; and each party alleged exceptions to rulings and instructions of the judge, and sued out
That
a writ of error from the Circuit Court of Appeals.
complaint
the
to
court held that the defendant's demurrer
should have been sustained, and therefore reversed the judgment of the Circuit Court, .and remanded the case for further
proceedings. A writ of certiorari to review the judgment of
the Circuit Court of Appeals was thereupon applied for by the
court. •
plaintiff, and was granted by this
The fundamental question in this case is whether the contract in suit, made by the parties on June 4, 1890, is a contract
intended to last during the plaintiff's life, or is a mere contract
of hiring from month to month, terminable at the pleasure of
either party at the end of any month.
The facts bearing upon this question, as appearing upon the
face of this contract, are as follows: In May, 1888, the plaintiff, while employed as a machinist in the defendant's coal
mine in Alabama, was seriously hurt by a trip of tram cars
on the main slope of the mine, under circumstances which the
plaintiff claimed, and the defendant denied, rendered it liable
to him in damages. The parties were desirous of settling and

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

compromisir.- the plaintiff's claim for damages for the injuries,
and had repeated negotiations with that object. In Novemher, 1888, they made an agreement (which does not appear
to have been reduced to writing) by which the defendant was
to pay the plaintiff regular wages while he was disabled, and
also to furnish him with such supplies as he might choose to
get from a commissary, and to give him coal and wood for
fuel at his dwelling house, and the benefit of a garden belonging to the defendant. The agreement was carried out by the
defendant until May, 1889, and was then, after the plaintiff
had resumed work, modified by stipulating that the defendant
should give the plaintiff such work as he could do, should pay
him therefor wages of $60 a month, as before the accident, and
should give him the rent of his house, or, in lieu of house rent,
an equivalent amount of supplies from the commissary; and
the agreement, as so modified, was faithfully kept by both
parties until June 4, 1890. Finally, on that day, the parties
entered into the written contract sued on, by which, after
reciting the plaintiff's claim for damages and the earlier
agreements, it was agreed "in view [evidently a misprint for
" in lieu"] of the above propositions, which have been faithfully carried out," that the plaintiff's "wages from this date
are to be $65 a month," (the increase of wages being apparently intended as an equivalent for the provision, now omitted,
for house rent or supplies from the commissary,) and that he
was to have, free of charge, his fuel and the benefit of the
garden; and the plaintiff, on his part, agreed to release the
defendant from any and all liability for the accident, or for
the injuries resulting to him from it or from the effects of it,
and that this should be a full and satisfactory settlement of
all claims which he might have against the defendant.
The effect of the provisions and recitals of the contract
sued on may be summed up thus: The successive agreements
between the parties were all made with a view to settle and
compromise the plaintiff's claim against the defendant for
personal injuries, caused to him by the defendant's cars while
he was in its service as a machinist, and seriously impairing
his ability to work. By each agreement, the defendant was

PIERCE v. TENNESSEE COAL &c. RAILROAD CO.

9

Opinion of the Court.

to pay him certain wages, and to furnish him with certain
supplies. The supplies to be furnished were evidently a
minor consideration, and require no particular discussion.
The more important matter is the wages. The defendant,
at first, agreed to pay the plaintiff "regular wages while he
was disabled." The agreement, in that form, would clearly
last so long as he continued to be disabled, and could not
have been put an end to by the defendant without the plaintiff's consent. By the next succeeding agreement, made after
the plaintiff had resumed work, the defendant was "to give
him work, such as he could do, paying him therefor the wages
paid before said accident, that is, $60 a month." That agreement must be considered as a mere modification of the first,
requiring the plaintiff to do such work as he could do, but
showing that he was still much disabled by his injuries. By
the final agreement in writing of June 4, 1890, after reciting
the plaintiff's claim for damages for these injuries, as well
as the earlier agreements, his wages were increased by a
stipulation that his "wages from this date are to be $65 a
month," and he expressly released the defendant from all
liability for the injuries resulting to him from the accident
or from the effects thereof, and agreed that this should be
a full and satisfactory settlement of all his claims against
the defendant.
The only reasonable interpretation of this contract is that
the defendant promised to pay the plaintiff wages at the rate
of $65 a month, and to allow him his fuel and the benefit of
the garden so long as his disability to do full work continued;
and that, in consideration of these promises of the defendant,
the plaintiff agreed to do such work as he could, and to release
the defendant from all liability upon his claim for damages
for his personal injuries. An intention of the parties that,
while the plaintiff absolutely released the defendant from
that claim, the defendant might at its own will and pleasure
cease to perform all the obligations which were the consideration of that release, finds no support in the terms of the contract, and is too unlikely to be presumed. Carnigv. Carr,167
Mass. 544, 547.

OCTOBER TERV1, 1898.
Opinion of the Cour.

The Supreme Court of Alabama, when the case at bar was
before it on appeal from the county court, and before the
removal of the case into the Circuit Court of the United
States, expressed the opinion that "the contract is sufficiently
definite as to time, and bound the defendant to its performance, so long as the plaintiff should be disabled by reason of
the injuries he received, which, under the averment that he
was permanently disabled, will be for life;" and upon that
ground reversed the judgment of the county cou-rt sustaining
the demurrer to the complaint, and remanded the case to that
court. 110 Alabama, 533, 536. As we concur in that opinion,
it is unnecessary to consider how far it should be considered
as binding upon us in this case. See Williams v. Conger,
125 U. S. 397, 418; Gardner v. Xichigan Central Railroad,
150 U. S. 349; Great Wfesterm Tel. Co. v. Burnham, 162 U. S.
339, 344, and cases cited; -toulton, v. Reid, 54 Alabama, 320.
It follows that the judgment of the United States Circuit
Court of Appeals in this case was erroneous, and must be
reversed.
It appears to us to be equally clear that the Circuit Court
of the United States erred in excluding the evidence offered
by the plaintiff, in restricting his damages to the wages due
and unpaid at the time of the trial, and in declining to instruct
the jury as he requested.
Upon this point, the authorities are somewhat conflicting;
and there is little to be found in the decisions of this court,
having any bearing upon it, beyond the affirmance of the
general propositions that "in an action for a personal injury
the plaintiff is entitled to recover compensation, so far as it
is susceptible of an estimate in money, for the loss and damage caused to him by the defendant's negligence, including
not only expenses incurred for medical attendance, and a
reasonable sum for his pain and suffering, but also a fair
recompense for the loss of what he would otherwise have
earned in his trade or profession, and has been deprived of
the capacity of earning, by the wrongful act of the defendant,"
and, "in order to assist the jury in making such an estimate,
standard life and annuity tables, showing at any age the

PIERCE v. TENNESSEE COAL &c. RAILROAD CO. 11
Opinion of the Court.

probable duration of life, and the present value of a life annuity, are competent evidence;" Ficeksbut'g &~o.Rail'oad v.
Putnam, 118 U. S. 545, 554; and that in an action for breach
of contract "the amount which would have been received, if
the contract had been kept, is the measure of damages if the
Benjamin v. -Hilliard,23 How. 149,
contract is broken."
167.
But the recent tendency of judicial decisions in this country,
in actions of contract, as well as in actions of tort, has been
towards allowing entire damages to be recovered, once for
all, in a single action, and thus avoiding the embarrassment
and annoyance of repeated litigation. This especially appears
by well considered opinions in cases of agreements to furnish
support or to pay wages, a few only of which need be referred
to.
In Parkerv. Russell, 133 Mass. 74, the declaration alleged
that, in consideration of a conveyance by the plaintiff to the
defendant of certain real estate, the defendant agreed to support him during his natural life; and that the defendant
accepted the conveyance, and occupied the real estate, but
neglected and refused to perform the agreement. The plaintiff proved the contract; and introduced evidence that the
defendant did support him in the defendant's house for five
years, and until the house was destroyed by fire, and had
since furnished him no aid or support. The jury were instructed that "if the defendant, for a period of about two
years, neglected to furnish aid or support to the plaintiff,
without any fault of the plaintiff, the plaintiff might treat
the contract as at an end, and recover damages for the breach
of the contract as a whole; and that the plaintiff would be
entitled to recover compensation for the past failure of the
defendant to furnish him aid and support, and full indemnity
for his future support." Exceptions taken by the defendant
to this instruction were overruled by the Supreme Judicial
Mr. Justice Field, in delivering
Court of Massachusetts.
judgment, said: "In an action for the breach of a contract
to support the plaintiff during his life, if the contract is regarded as still subsisting, the damages are assessed up to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

date of the writ, and not up to the time when the verdict is
rendered. But if the breach has been such that the plaintiff
has the right to treat the contract as absolutely and finally
broken by the defendant, and he so elects to treat it, the
damages are assessed as of a total breach of an entire contract. Such damages are not special or prospective damages,
but are the damages naturally resulting from a total breach
of the contract, and are suffered when the contract is broken,
and are assessed as of that time. From the nature of the
contract, they include damages for not performing the contract in the future, as well as in the past. The value of the
contract to the plaintiff at the time it is broken may be somewhat indefinite, because the duration of the life of the plaintiff is uncertain; but uncertainty in the duration of a life has
not, since the adoption of life tables, been regarded as a reason
why full relief in damages should not be afforded for a failure
to perform a contract which by its terms was to continue during life. When the defendant, for example, absolutely refuses
to perform such a contract, after the time for entering upon
the performance has begun, it would be a great hardship to
compel the plaintiff to be ready, at all times during his life,
to be supported by the defendant, if the defendant should at
any time change his mind; and to hold that he must resort
to successive actions from time to time to obtain his damages
piecemeal, or else leave them to be recovered as an entirety
by his personal representatives after his death. Daniels v.
.Newton, 114 Mass. 530, decides that an absolute refusal to
perform a contract, before the performance is due by the
terms of the contract, is not a present breach of the contract
for which any action can be maintained; but it does not decide that an absolute refusal to perform a contract, after the
time and under the conditions in which the plaintiff is entitled
to require performance, is not a breach of the contract, even
although the contract is by its terms to continue in the future."
133 Mass. 75, 76. It is proper to remark that the point decided in Daniels v. Newton was left open in Dingley v. Oler,
117 U. S. 490, 503, and has never been brought into judgment
in this court.

PIERCE v. TENNESSEE COAL &c. RAILR OAD CO. 13
Opinion of the Court.

So in Schell v. Plumb, 55 N. Y. 592, the action was by a
woman, for a breach of an oral contract, by which the defendant's testator agreed to support the plaintiff during her
life, and she agreed to render what services she could towards
paying for her support. The contract was carried out for some
years; and the defendant then turned her away, and refused
to support her. At the trial the judge, against the defendant's
objection, admitted in evidence the Northampton tables of life
annuities, to show the probabilities of life at the plaintiff's
age; and instructed the jury that, if the plaintiff was turned
out in violation of the contract, without any misconduct on
her part, she was entitled to recover damages from the breach
of the contract to the time of trial, deducting what wages she
might have earned during that time; and also to recover for
her future support and maintenance, as to which the jury were
instructed as follows: "Your verdict is all she can ever recover,
no matter how long she may live. That ends the contract between these parties; and you will decide, considering her age,
her health, her condition in life, and the circumstances under
which she is placed, how long she will probably live, and how
much services she can probably perform in the future, and say
how much more it will cost her to support herself than she
will be able to earn, and allow her to recover for such sum."
The verdict was for the plaintiff, and judgment was rendered thereon. The defendant appealed, contending that, if
the plaintiff was entitled to recover at all, she could only recover for the time prior to the commencement of the action,
or, at most, to the time of trial; and that, as to the future,
it was impossible to ascertain the damages, as the duration of
life was uncertain, and a further uncertainty arose from the
future physical condition of the person. But the Court of
Appeals, in an opinion delivered by Judge Grover, affirmed
the judgment, saying: "Here the contract of the testator
was to support the plaintiff during her life. That was a continuing contract during that period; but the contract was
entire, and a total breach put an end to it, and gave the plaintiff a right to recover an equivalent in damages, which equivalent was the present value of her contract." "It may be

OCTOBER TERMI, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

further remarked that in actions for personal injuries the
constant practice is to allow a recovery for such prospective
damages as the jury are satisfied the party will sustain, notwithstanding the uncertainty of the duration of his life and
other contingencies which may possibly affect the amount."
55 N. Y. 597, 598. See also Reemelee v. iall, 31 Vermont,
582; Sutherland v. Wyer, 67 Maine, 64.
In Eastern Tennessee &c. Railroad v. Staub, 7 Lea, 397, the
facts were singularly like those in the case at bar. The plaintiff, having, while in the employ of the defendant railroad company as an engineer, and in the discharge of his duties as such,
received serious injuries by a collision between his locomotive
engine and another train, and having brought an action to
recover damages for those injuries, an agreement, by way
of compromise, was entered into, by which, in consideration
of the plaintiff's agreeing to dismiss his suit, the defendant
agreed to pay the costs thereof and the plaintiff's attorney's
fee and physician's bills; and further agreed to retain him in
its employ, the plaintiff working when, in his own opinion, he
was able to do so, and performing only such services as in his
disabled condition he might be able to perform; the defendant agreed to pay him a certain specified sum per day, regular
wages paid to machinists, whether he labored or not; and the
contract was to continue as long as the injuries should last.
For some time after this agreement, the plaintiff continued,
at intervals, to perform light work for the defendant, receiving pay, however, only for the time he actually worked; and
the defendant then denied any liability under the agreement,
and refused to allow the plaintiff to continue the service under
it. The Supreme Court of Tennessee held that the plaintiff
was entitled to recover in dne action the entire damages, not
only for wages already due and unpaid, but also damages to
the extent of the benefit that he would probably have realized
under the contract; and, speaking by Judge McFarland, said:
"It is a mistake to suppose, as has been done in argument,
that because, in estimating the damages, we look to the
probable course of events after the suit is brought, we are
therefore allowing damages that accrue after the action is

PIERCE v. TENNESSEE COAL &c. RAILROAD CO. 15
Opinion of the Court.

brought. The right to recover damages accrues upon the
breach of the contract. But the rule of damages in such
cases is what would have come to the plaintiff under the contract had it continued, less whatever the plaintiff might earn
by the exercise of reasonable and proper diligence on his part;
and, of course, in ascertaining this, we must look to a time subsequent to the breach, and in some cases to a time subsequent
to the bringing of the suit. Nor is it any objection to the
recovery, that in this case the damages are difficult to ascertain, depending upon contingent and uncertain events. There
are many cases in which the damages are uncertain and difficult to ascertain, and, in fact, cannot be ascertained with certainty, but this has never been regarded as a sufficient reason
for denying all relief." 7 Lea, 406.
These cases appear to this court to rest upon sound principles, and to afford correct rules for the assessment of the
plaintiff's damages in the case at bar.
The legal effect of the contract sued on, as has been seen,
was that the defendant promised to pay the plaintiff certain
wages, and to furnish him with certain supplies, so long, at
least, as his disability to work should continue; and the consideration of these promises of the defendant was the plaintiff's agreement to do for the defendant such work as he was
able to do, and his release of the defendant from all liability
in damages for the personal injuries which had caused his
disability.
The complaint alleged, and .the plaintiff at the trial introduced evidence tending to prove, that by those injuries he
was permanently disabled; that he was always ready and
offered to do for the defendant such work as he was able to
do, and labored at that work for such reasonable time as he
was able to work and bound to work under the contract; and
that the defendant, without any reasonable ground therefor,
denied its obligation to pay the plaintiff the stipulated wages
longer than suited its pleasure, and, for six months before the
commencement of the action, disregarded the contract, and
refused to abide by it, and entirely abandoned the contract,
and dismissed the plaintiff from its services.

OCTOBER TERIM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

If these facts were proved to the satisfaction of the jury,
the case would stand thus: The defendant committed an
absolute breach of the contract, at a time when the plaintiff
was entitled to require performance. The plaintiff was not
bound to wait to see if the defendant would change its decision, and take him back into its service; or to resort to successive actions for damages from time to time; or to leave the
-whole of his damages to be recovered by his personal representative after his death. But he had the right to elect to
treat the contract as absolutely and finally broken by the defendant; to maintain this action, once for all, as for a total
breach of the entire contract; and to recover all that he would
have received in the future, as well as in the past, if the contract had been kept. In so doing, he would simply recover
the value of the contract to him at the time of the breach,
including all the damages, past or future, resulting from the
total breach of the contract. The difficulty and uncertainty
of estimating damages that the plaintiff may suffer in the
future is no greater in this action of contract, than they
would have been if he had sued the defendant, in an action of
tort, to recover damages for the personal injuries sustained in
its service, instead of settling and releasing those damages by
the contract now sued on.
In assessing the plaintiff's damages, deduction should, of
course, be made of any sum that the plaintiff might have
earned in the past or might earn in the future, as well as
the amount of any loss that the defendant had sustained by
the loss of the plaintiff's services without the defendant's fault.
And such deduction was provided for in the instruction asked
by the plaintiff and refused by the judge.
The questions of law presented by the defendant's bill of
exceptions, allowed by the Circuit Court of the United States,
are substantially like those above considered, and require no
further notice.
The result is, that the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, sustaining the demurrer to the complaint, and reversing
the judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States, must
be reversed; that the judgment of the Circuit Court of the

TOWSON v. MOORE.
Opinion of'the Court.

United States must also be reversed, because of the ruling excepted to by the plaintiff; and that the case must be remanded
to that court, with directions to set aside the verdict and to
order a new trial.
Judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals and of the
Circuit Court of,the United States reversed, and case
remanded to said Circuit Court for further proceedings
in cownformity with the opinion of this court.

TOWSON v. IMOORE.
APPEAL

FROM THE COURT OF

APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT

OF

COLUMBIA.
No.198. Argued January 25, 26, 1899. -Decided

February 20, 1699.

In the case of a child's gift of its property to a parent, the circumstances
attending the transaction should be vigilantly and carefully scrutinized
by the court, in order to ascertain whether there has been undue influence
in procuring it; but it cannot be deemed prima.facie void: the presumDtion is in favor of its validity; and, in order to set it aside, the court must
be satisfied that it was not the voluntary act of the donor.
The same rule as to the burden of proof applies with equal, if not greater,
force to the case of a gift from a parent to a child, even if the effect of
the gift is to confer upon a child, with whom the parent makes his home
and is in peculiarly close relations, a larger share of the parent's estate
than will be received by other children or grandchildren.
The rule, that successive and concurrent decisions of two courts in the same
case upon a mere question of fact are not to be reversed unless clearly
shown to be erroneous, is equally applicable in equity and in admiralty.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Yr. .Fanklin .Mackey and -Y. A. H. Garlandfor appelA
M,. 1. C. Garlandwas on their brief.
lants.'
31r. Charles ff. Craginfor appellees.

YR. JUsTIcE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.
1 See Vol. 172, p. 651.
VOL. cLxxm-2

