BLYTHE v. IHNCKLEY.
Statement of the Case.

BLYTHE v. HINCKLEY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT
OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 367. Submitted January 30, 1899. -Decided

April 3,1899.

It appearing from the opinion of the Circuit Judge that the various bills
in this case were dismissed on the grounds: (1) That the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court could not be maintained because the state court, in the
exercise of its general jurisdiction, determined the eligibility of the defendant Florence Blythe to inherit an estate which that court was called
upon to distribute under the laws of the State, and that other propositions contended for by the complainants were for the same reason
deemed insufficient to take this case out of the general rule that after
a court of a State, with full jurisdiction over property in its possession,
has fnally determined all rights to that property, a court of the United
States will not entertain jurisdiction to annul such decree and disturb
rights once definitely determined; and (2) That the remedy of complainants, if any, was at law, and not in equity. Held, As neither ground
went to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court as a court of the United
States, the appeal could not be sustained as within any class mentioned
in ยง 5 of the Judiciary Act of 1891; and, if error was committed this was
not the proper mode for correcting it.

THIs was a "complaint to quiet title," brought in accordance with the Code of Civil Procedure of California by John
W. Blythe and Henry T. Blythe, citizens of the States of
Kentucky and Arkansas, respectively, against Florence Blythe
Hfinckley, Frederick W. Hinckley and the Blythe Company,
all citizens of California, which alleged that complainants
were owners as tenants in common of the real property described therein, and that the defendants, "and each of them,
claim that they have or own adversely to plaintiffs some estate,
title or interest in said lands; but plaintiffs allege that said
claims of defendants are false and groundless and without
warrant of law, and their claims to said lands are a cloud
upon plaintiffs' title thereto." Then followed an amended
complaint, which repeated the allegations of the original complaint, with some other averments, among them, "that at the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

time of the commencement of this suit neither one of the
parties was in possession of said lands nor any part thereof."
Thereafter a "second amended and supplemental bill in equity"
was filed, which, among other things, set forth that Thomas H.
Blythe was the owner of the real estate described at the time
of his death; that he died in the city and county of San Francisco, April 4, 1883, being a citizen of the United States, and
of the State of California, and a resident of said city and
county; and that "after the death of said Thomas H. Blythe,
as hereinbefore alleged, the public administrator of the city
and county of San Francisco took charge of the estate of
said Blythe and entered upon the administration of the
same;" that Florence Blythe Hinckley was born in England, the child of an unmarried woman; that the mother was a
British subject; that Florence remained in England until after
the death of Thomas H. Blythe, when and in 1883, she came
to California, being then an infant ten years old, and "ineligible to become a citizen of the United States;" and that she
was "when she arrived in California a non-resident alien."
It was then averred that the laws in force in California in
1883 relating to the rights of foreigners and aliens to take
real estate by succession as heirs at law of a deceased citizen
of the State of California, were the treaty of 1794 between
His Britannic Majesty and the United States, the naturalization laws of the United States, and section seventeen of article
one of the constitution of California of 1879, which was made
mandatory and prohibitory by section twenty-two; that there
were at the death of Blythe certain laws in force in said State,
to wit, sections 230 and 1387 of the Civil Code, providing for
the adoption and legitimation, and institution of heirship, of
illegitimate children; that there was not at any time during
Blythe's lifetime any law in force in England under or by
force of which he could 'have legitimated the said Florence or
made her his heir at law, or under which he could have absolved
the said Florence from allegiance to her sovereign, or, without
bringing said Florence into California, have changed her status
from a subject of England to that of a bona fi9de resident of
California.

BLYTHE v. HINCKLEY.
Statement of the Case.

It was further alleged that on a direct proceeding in the
Superior Court of San Francisco, sitting in probate, brought
on behalf of said Florence to determine the question of heirship, and to which action and proceeding complainants appeared, denying and contesting her application, that court
adjudged in favor of Florence, and "decided, in substance
and effect, that said Thomas H. Blythe had in his lifetime
adopted and legitimated the said Florence;" that from that
decree complainants appealed to the- Supreme Court of the
State, and that court "in substance and effect, decided that
said Thomas H. Blythe did not adopt or legitimate the said
Florence under or in conformity with said section 230 of the
Civil Code, but that he had constituted her his heir under and
pursuant to the provisions of section 1387 of said Civil Code."
And it was charged that neither the Superior Court nor the
Supreme Court had jurisdiction to render judgment in the
matter, and that the decision of the Supreme Court was in
violation of the constitution of the State of California, and
inconsistent with numerous former decisions of that court.
The bill then set forth that said Florence filed in the Superior Court in the matter of the estate of Thomas IH.Blythe
a petition for distribution, to which complainants appeared,
and the court on hearing granted a decree of partial distribution, which complainants charged was void for want of
jurisdiction; that thereafter and after the marriage of said
Florence to defendant Hinekley, she filed in the Superior
Court her petition for final distribution of the estate, which
was resisted by complainants, but the court entered thereon
a decree of final distribution, which complainants charged was
void for want of jurisdiction.
It was further stated that when the original bill was filed
neither party was in possession of the land described, but that
the same was in the possession of the public administrator of
said city and county of San Francisco, and that since then
Florence had secured and was now in possession of the property. The bill prayed for a decree quieting complainants'
alleged title; for an accounting as to rents and profits; for a
receiver; and for general relief.

OCTOBER TEIh\T, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

After the filing of the second amended and supplemental
bill, Mrs. Hinckley moved to dismiss the suit for want of jurisdiction, which motion was sustained by the Circuit Judge, for
reasons given in an opinion filed December 6, 1897. 84 Fed.
Rep. 246.
After the court ordered the dismissal of the suit, the record
shows that leave was given to complainants "to amend their
bill upon the understanding that it would not necessitate any
further argument, but should be subject to the prior motion
to dismiss the second amended and supplemental bill and to
the order for a final decree entered thereon." Accordingly on
December 22, 1897, complainants filed their "third amended
and supplemental bill in equity." This bill was substantially
the same as that immediately preceding, though it set up reasons why an action at law would not be an adequate remedy,
and amplified certain matters alleged to bear on the jurisdiction
of the state courts. It averred that section 671 of the Civil
Code of California, providing that "any person, whether citizen or alien, may take, hold and dispose of property, real or
personal, within this State;" and section 672, providing: "If
a non-resident alien takes by succession, he must appear and
claim the property within five years from the time of succession, or be barred;" were void as to aliens, because encroachments upon the treaty making power of the United States, and
in conflict with section ten of article one of the Constitution
of the United States, and with section 1978 of the Revised
Statutes, and that therefore those courts were without jurisdiction; and also that when the state courts adjudged in favor
of Florence because of Blythe's action under section 1387 of
the Code, reading "every illegitimate child is an heir of any
person who, in writing, signed in the presence of a competent
witness, acknowledges himself to be the father of such child,"
that section was made to operate in favor of Florence outside
of the geographical jurisdiction and boundaries of California,
and, as thus applied, was in violation of section ten, article
one, of the Federal Constitution, and of section 1978 of the
Revised Statutes, and an invasion of the jurisdiction of international intercourse, wherefore the adjudication was without

BLYTHE v. HINCKLEY.
Statement of the Case.

jurisdiction; and complainants further said that sections 671,
672 and 1387 of the Code were in conflict with treaties between the United States and Russia, France, Switzerland and
England, and with the Constitution of the United States; and
hence that the Circuit Court had jurisdiction "on the ground
that the construction and application of the Federal Constitution are involved as well as on the ground of diverse citizenship of the parties, and because said section of said Civil Code
violated the Federal Constitution as herein stated." On the
same day, December 22, 1897, the final decree was entered in
the case, the third paragraph of which was as follows: "That
the original ' complaint' of the complainants, John W. Blythe
and Henry T. Blythe, filed December 3, 1895, and also the
'amended complaint' of said complainants, filed December 12,
1895, and also the 'second amended and supplemental bill in
equity' of said complainants, filed January 14, 1897, and also
the complainants' third amended and supplemental bill, filed
by leave of court this 22d day of December, 1897, after the
rendition of the decision of the court upon the matters determined herein, but before the signing of this decree, be, and the
same are each hereby, finally dismissed as against each and all
of the parties named therein respectively as defendants, and in
all respects and in every particular, for want of either Federal
or equity jurisdiction and without prejudice to complainants'
right to bring or maintain an action at law."
From this decree John W. Blythe and Henry T. Blythe
prayed an appeal to this court, which was allowed and bond
given March 2, 1898, and on the same -day the Circuit Judge
filed a certificate, certifying "to the Supreme Court of the
United States pursuant to the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891,"
fifteen questions of law, which it was stated arose "upon the
face of said third amended and supplemental bill and upon
said motion," namely, the motion to dismiss.
The first ten of these questions set forth that the Circuit
Court sustained the motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction
to entertain the suit, and ordered it to be dismissed accordingly.
The remaining five contained no statement as to their disposition.

OCTOBER TERAM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

It appears from the opinion of the Circuit Judge that the

various bills were dismissed on the grounds: First, that the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court could not "be maintained because the state court, in the exercise of its general jurisdiction,
determined the eligibility of the defendant Florence to inherit
an estate which that court was called upon to distribute under
the laws of the State;" and that "the other propositions contended for by complainants are for the same reason deemed
insufficient to take this case out of the general rule that after

a court of a State, with full jurisdiction over property in its
possession, has finally determined all rights to that property,
a court of the United States will not entertain jurisdiction to
annul such decree and disturb rights once definitely determined."
Second, that the remedy of complainants, if any, was at law,
and not in equity.
A motion was made to dismiss or affirm the appeal.
AXr. Frederic JD. AfcKenney, Xr. TV. II. Il [fart, 3Yr. John
Garber and 31rf'. Robert . Hfayne for the motion.
Mr. S. IT' Holladay, -Mr. E. B. Holladay, .r.
CYandler and .1Lr. 1. D. 11c.fCisick opposing.

Jefferson

AIR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
We have heretofore determined that review by certificate is
limited by the act of March 3, 1891, to certificates by the Circuit Courts, made after final judgment, of a question in issue
as to their own jurisdiction ; and to certificates by the Circuit
Courts of Appeal of questions of law in relation to which the
advice of this court is sought. United States v. Rider, 163
U. S. 132.
Appeals or writs of error may be taken directly from the
Circuit Courts to this court in cases in which the jurisdiction
of those courts is in issue, that is, their jurisdiction as Federal
courts, the question alone of jurisdiction being certified to this

BLYTHE v. HINCKLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

court. The Circuit Court held that the remedy was at law
and not in equity. That conclusion was not a decision that
the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction as a court of the United
States. Smith v. .McKay, 161 U. S. 355; Blythe Company v.
Blythe, 172 U. S. 64,4.
The Circuit Court dismissed the bills on another ground,
namely, that the judgments of the state courts could not be
reviewed by that court on the reasons put forward. This,
also, was not in itself a decision of want of jurisdiction because
the Circuit Court was a Federal court, but a decision that the
Circuit Court was unable to grant relief because of the judgments rendered by those other courts.
If we were to take jurisdiction on this certificate, we could
only determine whether the Circuit Court had jurisdiction as
a court of the United States, and as the decree rested on no
denial of its jurisdiction as such, but was rendered in the exercise of that jurisdiction, it is obvious that this appeal cannot
be maintained in that aspect.
Nor can we take jurisdiction on the ground that the case
involved the construction or application of the Constitution of
the United States, or that the validity or construction of a
treaty was drawn in question, or that the constitution or law
of a State was claimed to be in contravention of the Constitution of the United States, within the meaning of the Judiciary
Act of March 3, 1891.
The Circuit Court by its decree passed on none of these
matters, unless it might be said that they were indirectly
involved in holding the judgments of the state courts to be
a bar; and, moreover, the decree rested on the independent
ground that the remedy was at law.
Even if the decree had been based solely on the binding
force of the state judgments, still we cannot hold that an appeal directly to this court would lie.
The Superior Court of San Francisco was a court of general
jurisdiction, and authorized to take original jurisdiction "of
all matters of probate," and the bill averred that Thomas H.
Blythe died a resident of the city and county of San Francisco
and left an estate therein; and that court repeatedly decreed

OCTOBER TERAI,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

that Florence was the heir of Thomas I. Blythe, and its decrees were repeatedly affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
State. So far as the construction of the state statutes and
state constitution in this behalf by the state courts was concerned, it was not the province of the Circuit Court to reixamine their conclusions. As to the question of the capacity
of an alien to inherit, that was necessarily involved in the determination by the decrees that Florence did inherit, and that
judgment covered the various objections in respect of section
1978 of the Revised Statutes, and the tenth section of article
one of the Constitution of the United States, and any treaty
relating to the subject.
We are not to be understood as intimating in the least degree that the provisions of the California Code amounted to
an invasion of the treaty-making power, or were in conflict
with the Constitution or laws of the United States, or any
treaty with the United States; but it is enough for the present purpose that the state courts had concurrent jurisdiction
with the Circuit Courts of the United States, to pass on the
Federal questions thus intimated, for the Constitution, laws
and treaties of the United States are as much a part of the
laws of every State as its own local laws and constitution, and
if the state courts erred in judgment, it was mere error, and
not to be corrected through the medium of bills such as those
under consideration.
Appeal disnded.

