OCTOBER TERAI, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

held in the prior case, (p. 316,) such approval was retroactive,
and operated as if it had been endorsed upon the deed when
originally given, and enured to the benefit of Horton and his
grantee, "not as a new title acquired by a warrantor subsequent to his deed enures to the benefit of the grantee, but as
a deed imperfect when executed, may be made perfect as of
the date when it was delivered."
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Illinois is therefore
Affirmed.

WILSON v. EUREKA CITY.
ERROR TO THE SUPEEME cOURT OF THE STATE OF UTAH.
No. 142.

Submitted January 17, 1699. -Decided

February 20,1899.

l
Section 12 of ordinance No. 10, of Eureka City, providing that "1No
person
shall move any building or frame of any building, into or upon any of
the public streets, lots or squares of the city, or cause the same to be
upon, or otherwise to obstruct the free passage of the streets, without
the written permission of the mayor, or president of the city council, or
in their absence a councillor. A violation of this section shall on conviction, subject the offender to a fine of not to exceed twenty-five dollars,"
is not in conflict with the provisions of the Constitution of the United
States.

SECTION 12 of ordinance number 10 of Eureka City, Utah,
provided as follows:
"No person shall move any building or frame of any building, into or upon any of the public streets, lots or squares of
the city, or cause the same to be upon, or otherwise to obstruct
the free passage of the streets, without the written permission
of the mayor, or president of the city council, or in their absence a councillor. A violation of this section shall on conviction, subject the offender to a fine of not to exceed twenty-five
dollars."
The plaintiff in error was tried for a violation of the ordinance in the justice's court of the city. He was convicted and

WILSON v. EUREKA CITY.
Statement of the Case.

sentenced to pay a fine of twenty-five dollars. He appealed
to the district court of the first judicial district of the Territory of Utah.
On the admission of Utah into the Union the case was
transferred to the fifth district court of Juab County, and
there tried on the 24th of October, 1896, by the court without
a jury, by consent of the parties.
Section 12, supra, was offered and admitted in evidence.
Plaintiff in error objected to it on the ground that it was repugnant to section 1 of article 14 of the Constitution of the
United States, in that it delegated an authority to the mayor
of the city, or in his absence to a councillor.
There was also introduced in evidence an ordinance establishing fire limits within the city, providing that no wooden
buildings should be erected within such limits except by
the permission of the committee on building, and providing
further for the alteration and repair of wooden buildings already erected. The ordinance is inserted in the margin.'
I SEcTioN 1. That the following boundaries are hereby established as the
fire limits of Eureka City, to wit: Commencing at a point on Main street of
said city, where said street crosses the Union Pacific Railway track, and
opposite or nearly opposite, the Keystone hoisting works, thence running
in an easterly direction along said Main street to a point where said street
intersects the road or street easterly of the site now occupied by the M. E.
Church building; the northerly and southerly boundaries of said fire limits
to be two hundred feet on each side of said Main street for said distance.
SEC. 2. Every building hereafter within the fire limits of said city shall
be of brick, stone, iron or other substantial and incombustible material,
and only the following wooden buildings shall be allowed to be erected, except as hereinafter provided, viz.: Sheds to facilitate the erection of authorized buildings, coal sheds not exceeding ten feet in height, and not to
exceed one hundred feet in area, and privies not to exceed thirty feet in
area and ten feet in height, and all such sheds and privies shall be separate
structures: Provided, That any person desiring to erect a building of other
material than those above specified within said fire limits, shall first apply
to the committee on building within said fire limits of the city for permission so to do, and if the consent of the committee on building within said
fire limits shall be given, they shall issue a permit, and it shall thereupon
be lawful to erect such building under such regulations and restrictions as
the committee on building within said fire limits may provide.
SC. 3. Any wooden building already within said fire limits shall only be
altered or repaired in such a manner that neither area nor height be inVOL. cLxxIii-3

OCTOBER TERIM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

The evidence showed that the plaintiff in error was the
owner of a wooden building of the dimensions of twenty by
sixteen feet, which was used as a dwelling house. It was constructed prior to the enactment of the ordinances above mentioned. The evidence further showed that plaintiff in error
applied to the mayor for permission to move the building
along and across Main street in the city, to another place
within the fire limits. The mayor refused the permission,
stating that if the desire was to move it outside of the fire
limits permission would be granted. Notwithstanding the
refusal, the plaintiff in error moved the building, using blocks
and tackle and rollers, and in doing so occupied the time between eleven A.M. and three P.m. At the place where the
building stood originally the street was fifty feet from the
houses on one side to those on the other -part of the space
being occupied by sidewalks, and the balance by the travelled
highway. The distance of removal was two hundred and six
feet long and across Main street. Eureka City was and is
a mining town, and had and has a population of about two
thousand. It was admitted that the building was moved with
reasonable diligence.
The plaintiff in error was again convicted. From the judgcreased without the consent of the said committee on building within said
fire limits.
SEC. 4. The said committee on building within said fire limits shall have
the power to stop the construction of any building, or the making of alterations or repairs on any building where the same is being done in violation
of the provisions of this ordinance, and any owner, architect or builder,
or others who may be employed, who shall assist in violation of non-compliance with the provisions of this ordinance shall be subject to a fine for
every such violation or non-compliance, of not less than ten nor more than
one hundred dollars.
SEC. 5. That there shall be a committee consisting of three members
of the council appointed by the mayor and confirmed by the council, to
be known as the " committee on building within the fire limits of Eureka
City," and that said committee be appointed immediately upon the taking
effect of this ordinance.
SEC. 6. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its
first publication in the Tintic Miner.
r'assed and approved June 4, 1894.

WILSON v. EUREKA CITY.
Opinion of the Court.

mert of conviction he appealed to the Supreme Court of the
State, which court affirmed the judgment, and to the judgment of affirmance this writ of error is directed.
Eureka City has no special charter, but was incorporated
under the general incorporation act of March 8, 1888, and
among the powers conferred by it on city councils are the
following :
"10. To regulate the use of streets, alleys, avenues, sidewalks, crosswalks, parks and public grounds.
"11. To prevent and remove obstructions and encroachments upon the same."
The error assigned is that the ordinance is repugnant to
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, because "thereby the citizen is -deprived of his property without due process of law," and "the citizen is thereby
denied the equal protection of the law."
.Jr. J.. TT _.

Whitecotton for plaintiff in error.

P. .L. Williams for defendant in error.
.Xr.
MR. JUSTICE MoKENNA, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

Whether the provisions of the charter enabled the council
to delegate any power to the mayor is not within our competency to decide.. That is necessarily a state question, and we
are confiied to a consideration of whether the power conferred does or does not violate the Constitution of the United
States.
It is contended that it does, because the ordinance commits
the rights of the plaintiff in error to the unrestrained discretion of a single individual, and thereby, it is claimed, removes
them from the domain of law. To support the contention the
following cases are cited: .Matterof .Prazee,63 Michigan, 396;
State ex rel. Garrabadv. Dering,.84: Wisconsin, 585 ; Anderson v. Wellington, 40 Kansas, 173; Baltimore v. Padeke, 49
Maryland, 217; Oicago v. Trotter, 136 Illinois, 430.

OCTOBER TER-I,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

With the exception of Baltimore v. JRadecke, these cases
passed on the validity of city ordinances prohibiting persons
parading streets with banners, musical instruments, etc., without first obtaining permission of the mayor or common council
or police department. Funeral and military processions were
excepted, although in some respects they were subjected to
regulation. This discrimination was made the basis of the decision in State ex 'el. Garrabadv. Dering, but the other cases
seem to have proceeded upon the principle that the right of
persons to assemble and parade was a well-established and
inherent right, which could be regulated but not prohibited
or made dependent upon any officer or officers, and that its
regulation must be by well-defined conditions.
This view has not been entertained by other courts or has
not been extended to other instances of administration. The
cases were reviewed by Mr. Justice McFarland of the Supreme Court of California in In 'e Flaherty, 105 California,
558, in which an ordinance which prohibited the beating of
drums on the streets of one of the towns of that State "without special permit in writing so to do first had and obtained
from the president of the board of trustees," was passed on
and sustained.
Summarizing the cascs the learned justice
said:
"Statutes and ordinances have been sustained prohibiting
awnings without the consent of the mayor and aldermen
(Pedri-ck v. Bailey, 12 Gray, 161); forbidding orations,
harangues, etc., in a park without the prior consent of the
park commissioners (Commonwealth v. Abrahams, 156 Mass.
57), or upon the common or other grounds, except by the permission of the city government and committee (Commonwealth
v. Davis, 140 Mass. 485); 'beating any drum or tambourine,
or making any noise with any instrument for any purpose
whatever, without written permission of the president of the
village,' on any street or sidewalk (Vance v. Jladfteld, 22 N. Y.
858, 1003; 4 N. Y. Supp. 112); giving the right to manufacturers and others to ring bells and blow whistles in such
manner and at such hours as the board of aldermen or selectmen may in writing designate (Sawyer v. Davis, 136 Mass.

WILSON v. EUREKA CITY.
Opinion of the Court.

239; 49 Amer. Rep. 27); prohibiting the erecting or repairing
of a wooden building without the permission of the board of
aldermen (Hine v. The City of New -Laven, 40 Conn. 478);
authorizing harbor masters to station vessels and to assign
tc each its place (Vanderbilt v. Adams, 7 Cow. 349); forbidding the occupancy of a place on the street for a stand without
the permission of the clerk of Faneril Hall Market (2ig/tingale,petitioner,11 Pick. 168); forbidding the keeping of swine
without a permit in writing from the board of health (Quincy
v. .Kennard,151 Mass. 563) ; forbidding the erection of any
kind of a building without a permit from the commissioners
of the town through their clerk (Commissioners &a. v. Covey,
74 Md. 262); forbidding any person from remaining within the
limits of the market more than twenty minutes unless permitted so to do by the superintendent or his deputy (Commonwealth v. Brooks, 109 Mass. 355)."
In all of these cases the discretion upon which the right
depended was not that of a single individual. It was not in
all of the cases cited by plaintiff in error, nor was their principle based on that. It was based on the necessity of the
regulation of rights by uniform and general laws -a necessity
which is no better observed by a discretion in a board of aldermen or council of a city than in a mayor, and the cases, therefore, are authority against the contention of plaintiff in error.
Besides, it is opposed by Davis v. Massachusetts, 167 U. S. 43.
Davis was convicted of violating an ordinance of the city
of Boston by making a public address on the "Common,"
without obtaining a permit from the mayor. The conviction
was sustained by the Supreme Judicial Court of the Commonwealth, 162 Mass. 510, and then brought here for review.
The ordinance was objected to, as that in the case at bar is
objected to, because it was "in conflict with the Constitution
of the United States, and the first section of the Fourteenth
Amendment thereof." The ordinance was sustained.
It follows from these views that the judgment of the Supreme Court of Utah should be and it is
Affirmed.

