ALLEN v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO.

479

Syllabus.

notice was not given; that all parties in interest were not fully
heard, or that the adjudication of the administrative department of the Government was not justified by the facts as presented. The naked proposition upon which the plaintiff relies
is that upon the creation of an equitable right or title in the
State the power of the land department to inquire into the
validity of that right or title ceases. That proposition cannot
be sustained. Whatever rights, equitable or otherwise, may
have passed to the State by the approval of List No. 5 by
Secretary Teller, can be determined, and should be determined,
in the courts of Oregon, state or Federal, after the legal title
has passed from the Government. The decree of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia, sustained by the opinion of

the Court of Appeals of the District, was right, and is
Affirined.
MR. JUSTICE MOKENNA took no part in the consideration and
decision of this case.

ALLEN v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COM-

PANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 144. Argued January 17, 1899. -Decided

April 3, 1S99.

The sixth section of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, did not change the
limit of two years as regards cases which could be taken from Circuit
and District Courts of the United States to this court, and that act did
not operate to reduce the time in which writs of error could issue from
this court to state courts.
As a reference to the opinion of the Supreme Court of California makes
patent the fact that that court rested its decision solely upon the construction of the contract between the parties to this action which forms
its subject, and decided the case wholly independent of the Federal questions now set up; and as the decree of the court below was adequately
sustained by such independent, non-Federal question, it follows that no
issue is presented on the record which this court has power to review.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

THis suit, commenced by the Southern Pacific Railroad
Company, (the defendant in error here,) against Darwin C.
Allen, who is plaintiff in error, was based on eighty-four
written contracts entered into on the first day of February,
1888. All these contracts were made exhibits to the complaint and were exactly alike, except that each contained a
description of the particular piece of land to which it related.
By the contracts the Southern Pacific Company agreed to sell
and Darwin C. Allen to buy the land described in each contract upon the following conditions: Allen paid in cash a
stipulated portion of the purchase price and interest at seven
per cent in advance for one year on the remainder. He agreed
to pay the balance in five years from the date of the contracts. The deferred payment bore interest at seven per centum per annum, which was to be paid at the end of each
year. He moreover bound himself to pay any taxes or assessments which might be levied on the property. The contracts
provided:
"It is further agreed that upon the punctual payment of
said purchase money, interest, taxes and assessments, and the
strict and faithful performance by the party of the second part,
[Allen, the purchaser,] his lawful representatives or assigns,
of all the agreements herein contained, the party of the first
part [the Southern Pacific Company] will, after the receipt
of a patent therefor from the United States, upon demand
and the surrender of this instrument, execute and deliver to
the party of the second part, his heirs and assigns, a grant,
bargain and sale deed of said premises, reserving all claim of
the United States to the same as mineral land."
There was a stipulation that the purchaser should have a
right to enter into possession of the land at once, .and by
which he bound himself until the final deed was executed
not to injure the property by denuding it of its timber. The
contracts contained the following:
"The party of the first part [the Southern Pacific Company] claims all the tracts hereinbefore described, as part of
a grant of lands to it by the Congress of the United States ;
that patent has not yet issued to it for said tracts; that it will

ALLEN v. SOUTRERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO.

481

Statement of the Case.

use ordinary diligence to procure patents for them; that, as
in consequence of circumstances beyond its control, it sometimes fails to obtain patent for lands that seem to be legally
a portion of its said grant, therefore nothing in this instrument shall be considered a guarantee or assurance that patent
or title will be procured; that in case it be finally determined
that patent shall not issue to said party of the first part for
all, or any of the tracts herein described, it will, upon demand,
repay [without interest] to the party of the second part all
moneys that may have been paid to it by him on account of
any of such tracts as it shall fail to procure patent for, the
amount of repayment to be calculated at the rate and price
per acre, fixed at this date for such tracts by said party of the
first part, as per schedule on page 3 hereof ; that said lands
being unpatented, the party of the first part does not guarantee the possession of them to the party of the second part,
and will not be responsible to him for damages, or costs, in
case of his failure to obtain and keep such possession."
It was averred that after the execution of the contracts
Allen, the purchaser, had entered into possession of the various tracts of land, and so continued up to the time of the
commencement of the suit. The amount claimed was three
annual instalments of interest on the deferred price which it
was alleged had become due in February, 1889, 1890 and 1891.
The prayer of the complaint was that the defendant be condemned to pay the amount of these respective instalments
within thirty days from the date of decree, and in the event
of his failure to do so that himself, his representatives and
assigns, "be forever barred and foreclosed of all claim, right
or interest in said lands and premises under and by virtue of
said agreements, and be forever barred and foreclosed of all
right to conveyance thereof, and that said contracts be declared null and void."
The defendant, whilst admitting the execution of the contracts, denied that he had ever taken possession of any of the
land, and charged that the contracts were void because at the
time they were entered into and up to the time of the institution of the suit the seller had no ownership or interest of any
VOL. cLxxm-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

kind in the land, and therefore that no obligation resulted to
the buyer from the contracts. By way of cross-complaint it
was alleged that the defendant had been induced to enter into
the contracts by the false and fraudulent representations of the
complainant that it had a title to or interest in the property;
that, in consequence of the error of fact produced by these misrepresentations of the plaintiff, the defendant had paid the
cash portion of the price and the interest in advance for one
year on the deferred instalment; that, owing to the want of
all title to or interest in the land on the part of the complainant, the defendant had been unable to take possession thereof,
and that some time after the contracts were entered into the
defendant had an opportunity to sell the land for a large advance over the amount which he had agreed to pay for it,
which opportunity was lost in consequence of the discovery
of the fact that the complainant had no title whatever to the
property. The prayer of the cross-complaint was that the
moneyed demand of the plaintiff be rejected; that the contracts be rescinded, and that there be a judgment against
the plaintiff for the amount paid on account of the purchase
price and for the damage which the defendant had suffered
by reason of his failure to sell the property at an advanced
price. The complainant put the cross-complaint at issue by
denying that it had made any representations as to its title
to or interest in the land except as stated in the contracts. It
denied that at the time of the contracts it had no interest in
the land, or that the defendant had been prevented from taking possession or had been prevented from selling at an advanced price because of a want of title.
Upon these issues the case was heard by the trial court,
which made a specific finding of fact embracing, among other
matters, the following: That the contracts sued on had been
entered into as alleged and the instalments claimed thereunder
were due despite demand; that no representations had been
made by the plaintiff as to its title other than those which
were recited in the contract; that the defendant had not
lost the opportunity to sell at an advanced price, as alleged
in the cross-complaint.

ALLEN v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO.

483

Statement of the Case.

As to the title to the land embraced in the contracts, the
facts were found to be as follows:
"That the lands and premises therein described were portions of the public domain of the United States and were
granted to plaintiff by an act of the Congress of the United
States, entitled 'An act granting lands to aid in the construction of a railroad and telegraph line from the States of Missouri and Arkansas to the Pacific coast,' approved July 27,
1866. That all of said lands, save sec. 5, in township 23 south,
range 19 east, M. D. M., are situated within a belt more than
20 miles and less than 30 miles from plaintiff's railroad, generally known as the indemnity belt; the said see. 5 being
within 20 miles of said railroad.
"That the loss to plaintiff of odd-numbered sections within
said granted limits, i.e., within 20 miles of said railroad,
because of the various exceptions and reservations in said act
provided for, is fully equal to all the odd-numbered sections
within said indemnity belt.
"That on March 19, 1867, an order was made by the Secretary of the Interior of the United States withdrawing or pur-porting to withdraw from sale or settlement under the laws
of the United States, all of said lands situated in said indemnity belt; and that on August 15, 1887, another order was
made by said Secretary of the Interior, revoking, or purporting to revoke, said first named order, and restoring said lands
to the public domain for the usual sale and settlement thereof.
The first said order of withdrawal is set forth in vol. - of
'Decisions of the Secretary of the Interior' at p. -, and the
said second order in vol. 6 of said 'Decisions' at pp. 84-92;
and which said orders as so set forth are here referred to, and
made a part of this finding. That plaintiff is the owner of said
lands in fee under the provisions of said act of Congress; that
patents or a patent therefor have not yet been issued to plaintiff by the Government of the United States; that it has not
been finally determined that patents or a patent shall not issue
therefor, or for any part thereof, but proceedings are now
pending before the proper Department of the Government of
the United States, instituted by plaintiff, to obtain patents or

OCTOBER TERWI, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

a patent for said lands and premises, and the whole thereof.
That plaintiff has not been guilty of any want of ordinary
diligence in instituting or prosecuting said proceedings to
obtain said patents or patent."
There was a decree allowing the prayer of the complaint
and rejecting that of the cross-complaint. On appeal the
case was first heard in Department No. 1 of the Supreme
Court of California, and the decree of the trial court was in
part reversed. In accordance with the California practice
the cause was transferred from the court in department to
the court in bane, where the decree of the trial court was
affirmed. 112 California, 455. To this decree of affirmance
this writ of error is prosecuted.
3ib'. Wilbur F. Zeigler for plaintiff in error.
R?. Taylor filed briefs for same.

-Mr. Edward

ALr. Jlaxwell var'ts for defendant in error.
F. Herrin was on his brief.

Xr'. William

MR. JUSTIcE WriTE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

It is asserted that the record is not legally in this court
because the writ of error was allowed by the Chief Justice
of the State after the expiration of the time when it could
have been lawfully granted. It was allowed within two years
of the decree by the state court, but after more than one year
had expired. The contention is that writs of error from this
court to the courts of the several States cannot now be lawfully taken after the lapse of one year from the final entry of
the decree or judgment to which the writ of error is directed.
This rests on the assumption that the act of March 3, 1891,
c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, not only provides that writs of error or
appeals in cases taken to the Supreme Court from the Circuit
Courts of Appeals created by the act of 1891, shall be limited
to one year, but also fixes the same limit of time for writs of
error or appeal in cases taken to the Supreme Court from the

ALLEN v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO.

485

Opinion of the Court.

Circuit and District Courts of the United States, thereby repealing the two years' limitation as to such Circuit and District
Courts previously established by law. Rev. Stat. ยง 1008. As
this asserted operation of the act of 1891 produces a uniform
limit of one year for writs of error or appeals as to all the
courts of the United States, in so far as review in the Supreme
Court is concerned, the deduction is made that a like limit
necessarily applies to writs of error from the Supreme Court
to state courts, since such state courts are, Rev. Stat. ยง 1003,
subject to the limitation governing judgments or decrees of "a
court of the United States." The portion of the act of 1891
from which it is claimed the one year limitation as to writs
of error and appeal from the Supreme Court to all courts of
the United States arises is the last paragraph of section 6
of that act. The section of the act in question in the portions which precede the sentences relied upon, among other
things, defines the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of Appeals established by the act of 1891, and determines in what
classes of cases the jurisdiction of such courts is to be final.
After making these provisions the concluding part of section
6 provides as follows:
"In all cases not hereinbefore, in this section, made final,
there shall be of right an appeal or writ of error or review of
the case by the Supreme Court of the United States where
the matter in controversy shall exceed one thousand dollars
besides costs. But no such appeal .shall be taken or writ of
error sued out unless within one year after the entry of the
order, judgment or decree sought to be reviewed."
It is apparent that the language just quoted relates exclusively to writs of error or appeal in cases taken to the Supreme
Court from the Circuit Courts of Appeals. The statute, in the
section in question, having dealt with the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Courts of Appeals and defined in what classes of cases
their judgments or decrees should be final and not subject to
review, follows J hese provisions by conferring on the Supreme
Court the power to review the judgments or decrees of the
Circuit Courts of Appeals, not made final by the act. To construe the section as relating to or controlling the review by

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

error or appeal, by the Supreme Court, of the judgments or
decrees of Circuit or District Courts of the United States,
would not only disregard its plain letter but do violence to its
obvious intent. Relating only, then, to writs of error or appeal from the Supreme Court to the Circuit Courts of Appeals,
it follows that the limitation of time, as to appeals or writs of
error, found in the concluding sentence, refers only to the
writs of error or appeal dealt with by the section and not to
such remedies when applied to the District or Circuit Courts
of the United States, which are not referred to in the section
in question. This is made manifest by the statement, not that
all appeals or writs of error to the Supreme Court from all
the courts of the United States shall be taken in one year,
but that "no such appeal shall be taken unless within one
year," etc. If these words of limitation were an independent
and separate provision of the act of 1891, thereby giving rise
to the implication that the words "no such appeal or writ of
error" qualified and limited every such proceeding anywhere
referred to in the act of 1891, the contention advanced would
have more apparent force. As, however, this is not the case,
and as, on the contrary, the words "no such appeal or writ
of error" are clearly but a portion of section 6, it would be
an act of the broadest judicial legislation to sever them from
their connection in the act in order to give them a scope and
significance which their plain import refutes, and which would
be in conflict with the meaning naturally begotten by the provision of the act with which the limitation as to time is associated. Nor is there anything in section 4 of the act of 1891,
destroying the plain meaning of the words "such appeal or
writ of error," found in the concluding sentence of section 6.
The language of section 4 is as follows:
"All appeals by writ of error or otherwise, from said District Courts, shall only be subject to review in the Supreme
Court of the United States or in the Circuit Court of Appeals
hereby established, as is hereinafter provided,.and the review,
by appeal, by writ of error or otherwise, from the existing
Circuit Courts shall be had only in the Supreme Court of the
United States or in the Circuit Courts of Appeals hereby es-

ALLEN v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO.

487

Opinion of the Court.
tablished according to the provisions of this act regulating
the same."
This section refers to the jurisdiction of the courts created
by the act of 1891, and to the changes in the distribution of
judicial power made necessary thereby. If the concluding
words of section 4, "according to the provisions of this act
regulating the same," were held to govern the time for writs
of error or appeal to the Supreme Court from the District or
Circuit Courts of the United States, the argument would not
be strengthened, since there is no provision in the act governing the time for such writs of error or appeal. The contention
that Congress cannot be supposed to have intended to fix two
distinct and different limitations for review by the Supreme
Court, one of two years as to the Circuit and District Courts of
the United States, and the other of one year as to the Circuit
Courts of Appeals, affords no ground for disregarding the
statute as enacted, and departing from its unambiguous provisions upon the theory of a presumed intent of Congress. Indeed, if it were conceded that the provisions of section 4:
referred to the procedure or limit of time in which appeals or
writs of error could be taken, in cases brought to the Supreme
Court, from the Circuit or District Courts of the United States,
such concession would be fatal to the contention which we are
considering, for this reason. The concluding portion of section 5 of the act of 1891 is as follows:
":Nothing in this act shall affect the jurisdiction of the
Supreme Court in cases appealed from the highest court of a
State, nor the construction of the statute providing for review
of such cases."
Whilst this language clearly relates to jurisdictional power
and not to the mere time in which writs of error may be taken,
yet the same reasoning which would impel the concession
that section 4 related to procedure and not to jurisdictional
authority would give rise to a like conclusion as to the provision in section 5 just quoted. It follows, therefore, that the
only reasoning by which it is possible to conclude that the act
of 1891 was intended to change the limit of time in which
writs of error could issue from the Supreme Court to the Cir-

OCTOBER TERM\,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

cuit or District Courts, or in which appeals could be taken from
such courts to the Supreme Court, would compel to the conclusion that the act of 1891 had expressly preserved the two
years' limitation of time then existing as to writs of error from
state courts to the Supreme Court.
From the conclusion that the sixth section of the act of 1891
did not change the limit of two years as regards the cases
which could be taken from the Circuit and District Courts of
the United States to the Supreme Court, it follows that the
act of 1891 did not operate to reduce the time in which writs
of error could issue from the Supreme Court to the state courts.
That period was two years, in analogy to the time limit established by statute with reference to writs of error to the District
and Circuit Courts of the United States, which courts, at the
time of the passage of the act of 1891, answered to the designation of "a court of the United States" contained in section
1003 of the Revised Statutes, regulating the subject of writs
of error to state courts. The circumstance that Congress, in
creating a new court of the United States, affixed a different
limitation as to the time for prosecuting error to such court
and left unchanged the limitation as to the time within which
error might be prosecuted to the courts whose practice in
this particular governed the practice in state courts, irresistibly
warrants the inference that it was intended that the practice
in the state courts as to the time of suing out writs of error
should continue unaltered. The writ of error in this case
having been allowed within two years from the final decree,
was therefore seasonably taken.
We are brought, then, to consider whether there arises
on the record a Federal question, within the intendment of
Rev. Stat. ยง 709. The claim is that two distinct Federal
issues are presented by the record or are necessarily involved
therein. They are: First. That by a proper construction of
the act of Congress granting land to the railroad, 14 Stat.
292, no title to lands which were beyond the place limits, but
in the indemnity limits, passed to the railroad until approved
selections of such lands had taken place, hence that it was not
only drawing in question the validity of an authority exercised

ALLEN v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO.

489

Opinion of the Court.

under the United States, but also denying a privilege or immunity claimed under the statute of the United States to
decide that the railroad had, before such approved selection,
any right to contract to sell the lands in question. Second.
That it was drawing in question the validity of an authority
exercised under a law of the United States, and denying a
privilege or immunity claimed under such law to hold that
the right of the railroad to the lands in question had not
been irrecoverably adversely determined by the action of the
Secretary of the Interior, revoking his previous action withdrawing such lands, even although, at the time of such cancellation of the prior general withdrawal, there were pending in
the Land Department claims of the railroad to the land in
question which at that time were not finally disposed of.
Conceding arguendo only that the contentions thus advanced
would give rise to the Federal questions as claimed, it becomes
wholly unnecessary to consider them if it be disclosed by the
record that the state court rested its decision upon grounds
wholly independent of these contentions, and which grounds
are entirely adequate to sustain the judgment rendered by the
state court without considering the Federal questions asserted
to arise on the record. -McQuadev. Trenton, 172 U. S. 636;
CapitalBank v. Cadiz Bank, 172 U. S. 425.
In inquiring whether this is the case we are unconcerned
with the conclusions of the trial court, or with those of a
department of the Supreme Court of California, and consider
only the final action of the Supreme Court of the State in
disposing of the controversy now before us. A reference to
the opinion of the Supreme Court of California makes patent
the fact that that court rested its decision solely upon a construction of the contract, and therefore that it decided the
case upon grounds wholly independent of the Federal questions now claimed to be involved. The court held that the
contract disclosed that both parties dealt with reference to
the existing state of the title to the lands, the vendor selling
his hope of obtaining title and the vendee buying such expectation; that the result of the contract was that the vendor
in advance agreed to sell such title, if any, as he might obtain

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

in the future, and that the vendee agreed for the sake of obtaining in advance the right to the title, if the vendor could
procure it, to pay the amount agreed upon, subject to the
return of the price in the event it should be finally determined that the hope of title in the vendor, as to which both
parties were fully informed, should prove to be illusory. On
these subjects the court said:
"The defendant further contends that the contracts were
void ab initio, for want of mutuality or consideration, or
amounted at most to mere offers to purchase on his part.
This contention cannot be sustained. Plaintiff claimed title
to these lands, but its title had not been perfected by patent.
Defendant had the same opportunity as plaintiff of knowing
the nature and probable validity of that claim. Under these
circumstances plaintiff agreed to convey to defendant when it
should obtain a patent, and to permit defendant to enter into
possession of the land at once. In consideration of these
premises defendant agreed to purchase when a patent should
be issued, paid at once one fifth of the purchase price and
one year's interest on the balance, and agreed to pay the remainder (with interest thereon annually in advance) on or
before a given date, with the right to a repayment without
interest in the event of an ultimate failure to obtain a patent.
These promises were strictly mutual, and each constituted a
sufficient consideration for the other. Plaintiff by its contract
surrendered its right to contract with or sell to any one else,
and yielded to defendant the present right to possession which
it claimed. These concessions were clearly a detriment to
plaintiff, and, in a legal sense, an advantage to defendant;
and they, therefore, furnish a consideration for defendant's
promise to pay."
Upon the question of the final determination of the hope of
title upon which the return of the price was by the contract
made to depend, the court concluded as follows:
"The only question really involved in the case is as to the
construction of the contracts sued upon. It is contended by
the defendant that he was under no obligation to purchase the
land or to pay the remainder of the purchase price, unless the

ALLEN v. SOUTHERN 'PACIFIC RAILROAD 00.

491

Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff should, within the five years, obtain a patent for
the ]and; and that, as the plaintiff had failed to obtain a patent within that time, and as the action was not tried until
after the expiration of that time, the defendant was entitled
to a rescission of the contract. But clearly the contracts will
not bear any such construction. The defendant contracted
unconditionally to pay the remainder of the purchase price
'on or before' a certain day named, and to pay interest annually in advance on the remainder; but the plaintiff contracted to convey to defendant only 'upon the receipt of a
patent,' and was to repay the money only 'in case it be fnally
determined that patent shall not issue.' The defendant, therefore, was not entitled to terminate the contract or to require
a repayment of the moneys paid, until the question of the issue
of a patent to the plaintiff should be ' finally determined.' The
findings state that proceedings are now pending in the United
States Land Department for the issue of patent to the plaintiff, and that it has not been finally determined that such
patent shall not issue. At the time, therefoTe, at which defendant contracted to pay the balance of the purchase price,
plaintiff was not in default, nor was it in default at the time
of the trial."
We cannot say that the state court has erroneously construed the act of Congress, since its decree rests alone upon
the conclusion reached by it, that by the contracts between
the parties there existed a right to recover whatever may
have been the existing state of the title. The conclusion that
the parties were competent to contract with reference to an
expectancy of title involved no Federal question. The decision
that the final determination of title, referred to in the contracts, related to the proceedings in the Land Department
which were pending at the time the contracts were entered
into and not to the cancellation by the Secretary of the Interior of the withdrawal order, which had been made by that
officer before the date of the contracts, precludes the conception that the state court erroneously denied the legal consequence flowing from the order of withdrawal. It follows
then that as the decree of the court below was adequately

OCTOBER TERMI, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

sustained by an independent non-Federal question, there is no
issue presented on the record which we have the power to review, and the cause is therefore
Dismissedfor wan of jurisdiction.

MEDBURY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Igo. 225. Argued March 1, 1899.--Decided April 3, 1899.

Under the act of June 16, 1880, c. 244, the Court of Claims has jurisdiction
of an action to recover an excess of payment for lands within the limits
of a railroad grant, which grant was, after the payment, forfeited by
act of Congress for nonconstruction of the road.
When in such case, by reason of the negligence of the railroad company
for many years to construct its road, Congress enacts a forfeiture of the
grant, the Government is under no obligation to repay the excess of
price paid by the purchaser of such lands in consequence of their being
within the limits of the forfeited grant.

THE appellant herein fied her petition in the Court of
Claims and sought to recover judgment by virtue of the
provisions of the act approved June 16, 1880, c. 244, 21
Stat. 287.
The Attorney General denied all the allegations of the
-petition, and the case was tried by the court upon the following agreed statement of facts: Congress made a grant of
lands to the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company by the
act of May 5, 1864, c. 80, 13 Stat. 66, which contained the
condition that the railroad should be built as therein provided.
After the grant the price of the lands reserved within its place
limits was raised from $1.25 per acre to $2.50 per acre under
the authority of law and by the direction of the Secretary of
the Interior. In 1872, one Samuel Mledbury made an entry
of more than seven thousand acres of land, within the place
limits of that grant and at the double minimum price of $2.50

