TOWSON v. MOORE.
Opinion of'the Court.

United States must also be reversed, because of the ruling excepted to by the plaintiff; and that the case must be remanded
to that court, with directions to set aside the verdict and to
order a new trial.
Judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals and of the
Circuit Court of,the United States reversed, and case
remanded to said Circuit Court for further proceedings
in cownformity with the opinion of this court.

TOWSON v. IMOORE.
APPEAL

FROM THE COURT OF

APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT

OF

COLUMBIA.
No.198. Argued January 25, 26, 1899. -Decided

February 20, 1699.

In the case of a child's gift of its property to a parent, the circumstances
attending the transaction should be vigilantly and carefully scrutinized
by the court, in order to ascertain whether there has been undue influence
in procuring it; but it cannot be deemed prima.facie void: the presumDtion is in favor of its validity; and, in order to set it aside, the court must
be satisfied that it was not the voluntary act of the donor.
The same rule as to the burden of proof applies with equal, if not greater,
force to the case of a gift from a parent to a child, even if the effect of
the gift is to confer upon a child, with whom the parent makes his home
and is in peculiarly close relations, a larger share of the parent's estate
than will be received by other children or grandchildren.
The rule, that successive and concurrent decisions of two courts in the same
case upon a mere question of fact are not to be reversed unless clearly
shown to be erroneous, is equally applicable in equity and in admiralty.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Yr. .Fanklin .Mackey and -Y. A. H. Garlandfor appelA
M,. 1. C. Garlandwas on their brief.
lants.'
31r. Charles ff. Craginfor appellees.

YR. JUsTIcE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.
1 See Vol. 172, p. 651.
VOL. cLxxm-2

OCTOBER TERMA,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

This was a bill in equity, filed April 16, 1896, in the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia, by children of Leonidas C.
Campbell, the son of William H. Campbell, against the two
daughters of William HI. Campbell, and against their husbands,
who were also executors of the wills of William. H. Campbell
and of Mary I. Campbell, his widow and residuary devisee
and legatee, to set aside a gift made by her to their two
daughters, of thirteen United States bonds for $1000 each,
(five bearing interest at four and a half per cent, and eight at
four per cent,) as having been obtained from her by undue influence of themselves and their husbands; and for an account,
and for further relief.
After the filing of answers fully and absolutely denying
the undue influence charged in the bill, and of a general replication, the case was heard upon pleadings and proofs; and a
decree was entered dismissing'the bill. The plaintiffs appealed
to the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, which
affirmed the decree. 11 App. D. C. 377. The plaintiffs then
appealed to this court. The leading and undisputed facts of
the case were as follows:
William H. Campbell, an old resident of the city of Washington, died May 21, 1881, leaving a will, dated March 16,
1878, and duly admitted to probate, by which, after reciting
that he had provided for his son, Leonidas C. Campbell, by
establishing him in business, he gave a legacy of $5000 to each
of his two daughters, Julia, wife of Alexander W. Russell,
and Christiana, wife of Frederick L. Moore, and an annuity
of $500 for life to his sister, Eloise A. Campbell; and devised
and bequeathed all the rest and residue of his estate in fee to
his wife, Mary I. Campbell, or, if she should not survive him,
to his three children as tenants in common, the children of
any child dying before him to take their parent's share; and
appointed his son and his son in law Moore executors of his
will. His son died August 15, ] 878; and the testator, by a
codicil dated September 7, 1878, and likewise admitted to
probate, ratified and confirmed his will in all respects, except
in appointing both his sons in law and one Maury executors
thereof.

TOwSONY

v. MOORE.

Opinion of the Court.

His wife and daughters survived him. His son had died
intestate, and leaving a widow, Mary K. Campbell, and seven
children, sixof whom were the plaintiffs in this bill. The seventh
child had died, leaving two children, who were made defendants, but were never served with, process or otherwise brought
into the case.
Upon the death of William H. Campbell, his executors, for
the purpose of paying the annuity bequeathed by him to his
sister, set apart the aforesaid United States bonds, of the par
value of $13)000, and kept them intact during the life of the
annuitant. She died October 1, 1885, and the bonds then
became part of the residue of the estate bequeathed to his
widow, Mary I. Campbell. On October 5,1885, the bonds
were transferred to her on the books of the Treasury Department; and on the next day, October 6, 1885, their market
value then being about $15,000, she made a gift of them in
equal shares to her two daughters, Mrs. Russell and Mrs.
Moore.
After the death of her husband in 1881, Moore was her
business agent; and she resided alternately with one or the
other of her two daughters, living on affectionate and confidential terms with them and. their husbands; and at the times
of the gift in question, and of her death, was at the house of
Mr. and Mrs. Moore in Georgetown. She died August 6,
1893, aged ninety-one years, and leaving a will, dated May 26,
1882, and duly admitted to probate, by which, after some small
legacies, she devised and bequeathed all the residue of her
estate, in equal thirds, to her two daughters and the seven
children of her deceased son; and appointed her sons in law
Russell and Moore executors of her will.
It was contended by the plaintiffs that the Court of Appeals erred in holding that the burden of proving undue influence was upon them; and it was argued that, by reason of the
confidential relations between the donor and the donees, the
burden of proof was shifted upon the latter to prove the validity of. the gift of the bonds. But the ruling of the Court of
Appeals in this respect is supported by the decisions of this
court, as will appear by an examination of those decisions.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

In the leading case of Jenkins v. Pye,12 Pet. 241, in which
this court, at January term 1838, declined to set aside, for
undue influence, a deed of real estate made by a daughter,
shortly after coming of age, to her father, the court, speaking
by Mr. Justice Thompson, said: "The grounds mainly relied
upon to invalidate the deed were, that being from a daughter
to a father rendered it, at least p)rimafacie, void; and if not
void on this ground, it was so because it was obtained by the
undue influence of paternal authority. The first ground of
objection seeks to establish the broad principle that a deed
from a child to a parent, conveying the real estate of the
child, ought, upon considerations of public policy growing out
of the relations of the parties, to be deemed void; and numerous cases in the English chancery have been referred to, which
are supposed to establish this principle." "It becomes the
less necessary for us to go into a critical examination of the
English chancery doctrine on this subject, for, should the cases
be found to countenance it, we should not be dispose.d to
adopt or sanction the broad principle contended for, that the
deed of a child to a parent is to be deemed yrimafacie void.
It is undoubtedly the duty of courts carefully to watch and
examine the circumstances attending transactions of this kind,
when brought under review before them, to discover if any
undue influence has been exercised in obtaining the conveyance. But to consider a parent disqualified to take a voluntary deed from his child without consideration, on account of
their relationship, is assuming a principle at war with all filial,
as well as parental, duty and affection; and acting on the
presumption that a parent, instead of wishing to promote the
interest and welfare [of], would be seeking to overreach and
defraud his child. Whereas the presumption ought to be, in
the absence of all proof tending to a contrary conclusion, that
the advancement of the interest of the child was the object in
view; and to presume the existence of circumstances conducing to that result." 12 Pet. 253, 254.
Mir. Justice Story (who had concurred in that judgment)
in the last edition of his Commentaries on Equity Jurisprudence which underwent his revision, and which was published

TOWSON v. MOORE.
Opinion of the Court.

in 1846, after his death, stated the doctrine on the subject as
follows: "The natural and just influence which a parent has
over a child renders it peculiarly important for courts of justice to watch over and protect the interests of the latter; and
therefore all contracts and conveyances, whereby benefits are
secured by children to their parents, are objects of jealousy,
and if they are not entered into with scrupulous good faith,
and are not reasonable under the circumstances, they will be
set aside, unless third persons have acquired an interest under
them; especially where the original purposes for which they
have been obtained are perverted, or used as a mere cover.
But we are not to indulge undue suspicions of jealousy, or to
make unfavorable presumptions as a matter of course in cases
of this sort." And he supported this statement by large quotations from the opinion of Mr. Justice Thompson in Jenkins v.
Pye. 1 Story Eq. Jur. (4th ed.) ยง 309.
In Taylor v. Taylor, 8 How. 183, decided at January term
1850, after the deaths of Justices Thompson and Story, the
opinion of Mr. Justice Thompson in Jenkins v. Pye and the
passage in Mr. Justice Story's Commentaries (omitting the last
clause, which was not in the earlier editions,) were quoted by Mr.
Justice Daniel as laying clown the true rule upon the subject.
While some expressions of that learned judge might seem to
construe those authorities too strongly in favor of presuming
undue influence, the decision in that case, setting aside a deed
made by a daughter to her father soon after her coming of
age, ultimately proceeded upon overwhelming proof of undue
influence, derived in part from the testimony of witnesses to
significant facts; in part from evidence conclusively showing
that nearly all the statements in the deed itself were utterly
false; and in part from a letter, written to the father by the
daughter, a few days before executing the deed, and while
they were living under the same roof, which, as the court de-.
clared, clearly appeared .upon its face to be "a fabrication,
designed to conceal the very facts and circumstances which it
palpably betrays," and "not the production of an inexperienced
girl, but of a far more practised and deliberate author."
It has since, more than once, been recognized by this court

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

that "the influence for which a will or deed will be annulled
must be such as that the party making it has no free will, but
stands in vinculis." Conley v. N ailor, (1886) 118 IT. S. 127,
134; 'Ralston v. Tu2pin, (1889) 129 U. S. 663, 670. See also
.Xackall v. Mfackall, (1890) 135 U. S. 167, 172, 173.
In Ralston v. Tu?pin, just cited, in which the object of the
bill was to set aside deeds made to an agent by his principal,
this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Harlan, recognized the
rule of law that "gifts procured by agents, and purchases
made by them, from their principals, should be scrutinized
with a close and vigilant suspicion;" and conceded that in the
case then before the court the agent held such relations, personal and otherwise, to the principal, as would enable him to
exercise great influence over the latter in respect to the mode
in which his property should be managed ; that the principal
trusted the agent's judgment as to matters of business more
than the judgment of any other man; and that he had an
abiding confidence in the agent's integrity, as well as in his
desire to protect his interests. Notwithstanding all this, the
bill was dismissed, because the plaintiff had failed to show
that the deeds were obtained by undue influence, but, on the
contrary, it appeared by the great preponderance of the evidence that "although their execution may have been induced,
not unnaturally, by feelings of friendship for, and gratitude
to, the defendant Turpin, the grantor acted upon his own independent, deliberate judgment, with full knowledge of the
nature and effect of the deeds. It was for the donor, who
had sufficient capacity to take a survey of his estate, and to
dispose of it according to an intelligent, fixed purpose of his
own, regardless of the wishes of others, to determine how far
such feelings should control him when selecting the objects of
his bounty." 129 U. S. 675-677.
In fackall v. Xlackall, above cited, in which it was attempted to set aside a deed from a father to his son, it appeared that for twenty years the father and mother had been
separated, and this son had remained with the father, taking
his part, and assisting him in his affairs, and the other children had gone with the mother and taken her part in the

TOWSON v. MOORE.
Opinion of the Court.

family differences. This court, in the opinion delivered by
Mr. Justice Brewer, speaking of the contention that the execution of the deed was induced by undue influence, said: "In
this respect, reference was made to the long intimacy between
father and son, the alleged usurpation by the latter of absolute
control over the life, habits and property of the former, efforts
to prevent others during the last sickness of the father from
seeing him, and the subjection of the will of the father to
that of the son, manifest in times of health, naturally stronger
in hours of sickness. A confidential relation between father
and son is thus deduced, which, resembling that between client
and attorney, principal and agent, parishioner and priest, compels proof of valuable consideration and bonafides in order to
sustain a deed from one to the other. But while the relationships between the two suggest influence, do they prove undue
influence?" In giving a negative answer to that question,
the court- affirmed the following propositions: "Influence
gained by kindness and affection will not be regarded as
undue, if no imposition or fraud be practised, even though
it induce the testator to make an unequal and unjust disposition of his property in favor of those who have contributed
to his comfort and ministered to his wants, if such. disposition
is voluntarily made. Confidential relations existing between
the testator and beneficiary do not alone furnish any presumption of undue influence." "That the relations between
this father and his several children, during the score of years
preceding his death, naturally inclined him towards the one
and against the others is evident, and to have been expected.
It would have been strange if such a result had not followed;
but such partiality towards the one, and influence resulting
therefrom, are not only natural, but just and reasonable, and
come far short of presenting the undue influence which the
law denounces. Right or wrong, it is to be expected that a
parent will favor the child who stands by him, and give to
him, rather than the others, his property. To defeat a conveyance under those circumstances, something more than the
natural influence springing from such relationship must be
shown; imposition, fraud, importunity, duress, or something

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

of that nature, must appear; otherwise, that disposition of
property which accords with the natural inclinations of the
human heart must be sustained." 135 U. S. 171-173.
The principles established by these authorities may be
summed up as follows: In the case of a child's gift of its
property to a parent, the circumstances attending the transaction should be vigilantly and carefully scrutinized by the
court, in order to ascertain whether there has been undue
influence in procuring it; but it cannot be deemed yrina
facie void; the presumption is in favor of its validity; and,
in order to set it aside, the court must be satisfied that it was
not the voluntary act of the donor. The same rule as to the
burden of proof applies with equal, if not greater force to the
case of a gift from a parent to a child, even if the effect of
the gift is to confer upon a child, with whom the parent
makes his home and is in peculiarly close relations, a larger
share of the parent's estate than will be received by other
children or grandchildren.
Applying these principles to the case at bar, it is beyond
doubt that the relations in which -Mary I. Campbell stood
to her daughters and their husbands afford no ground for
putting upon them the burden of disproving undue influence.
Upon the question whether undue influence was in fact
exercised, the record contains a mass of conflicting testimony,
which is satisfactorily considered in the opinion of the Court
of Appeals, and which it would serve no useful purpose to discuss anew.
A series of decisions of this court has established the rule,
that successive and concurrent decisions of two courts in the
same case, upon a mere question of fact, are not to be reversed, unless clearly shown to be erroneous. This rule, more
often invoked in admiralty cases, is yet equally applicable to
appeals in equity. Dravo v. .Fabel,132 U. S. 487, 490; Stuart
v. ilayden, 169 U. S. 1, 14; Baker v. Cummings, 169 U. S.
189, 198.
There is one document, however, in the record, which was
the subject of so much argument at the bar, that a brief notice

TOWSON v. MOORE.
Opinion of the Court.

of it, and of the circumstances under which it was drawn up,
will not be out of place.
The defendants, at the hearing, introduced in evidence a
writing signed by Mary I. Campbell, and in the following
terms: "Georgetown, D. C., October 6, 1885. I have to-day
voluntarily, without suggestion from any one, given to my two
daughters the 432 and 4 per cent United States bonds coming
to me from the estate of my husband, amounting to thirteen
thousand dollars at par, thus equalling their share with the
amount received by their brother and his family." There
was evidence tending to show that this writing was drawn up
and signed at the request of Mrs. Moore, and delivered to her,
on the day of its date, and had since been kept by her.
It was argued, in behalf of the plaintiffs, that the procuring
of this paper, containing the unusual and suspicious declaration that the gift of the bonds was made "voluntarily,
without. suggestion from any one," together with the long
concealment of the paper from the plaintiffs, was strong evidence of an intent to back up a fraudulent transaction.
But this argument is fully met by evidence that the reason
for the execution of this paper was that, three or four years
before, Mary K. Campbell, the mother of the plaintiffs, had
made an unfounded charge that Mrs. Moore had by undue influence procured the insertion of the legacies to herself and
her sister in their father's will; and had 'only desisted from
that charge upon receiving from Mary. I. Campbell a written
statement that it was "false in every particular." Under
such circumstances, no suspicion of undue influence can arise
out of the execution of the writing of October 6, 1885; or out
of its not having been disclosed to the plaintiffs, which may
well have been in order to prevent stirring up anew a family
quarrel. In this respect, as in most others, the case wholly
differs from that of Taylor v. Taylor, 8 How. 183, on which
the plaintiffs rely.
Upon a careful examination of the whole evidence, aided
by the able and thorough arguments of counsel, no sufficient
ground appears for reversing the decree dismissing the bill.
Decree affirmed.

