HENRIETTA MINING & MILLING CO. v. JOHNSON. 221
Statement of the Case.

" HENRIETTA

MINING AND MILLING
v. JOHNSON.

COMPANY

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF ARIZONA.
No. 189. Submitted January 16, 1899. -Decided

February 27, 1899.

Personal service of a summons, made in the Territory of Arizona upon the
general manager of a foreign corporation doing business in that Territory, is sufficient service under the laws of the Territory to give its
courts jurisdiction of the case.

Tins was an action instituted by Johnson in the district court
of Yavapai County, Arizona, to obtain a judgment against, and
to establish a lien upon, the property of the Mining Company, an Illinois corporation, for work and labor done and
material furnished, and to fix- the priority of such lien over
certain other lienholders who were also made defendants. The
plaintiff, in an affidavit annexed to the complaint, made oath
that "H. N. Palmer is the general manager of the said Henrietta Mining and Milling Company, and in charge of the property of the said company in the said county of Yavapai," and
that said company "has no resident agent in the said county
of Yavapai and Territory of Arizona, as is required by law,
and this affiant causes a copy of this notice of lien to be served
upon the said H. N. Palmer, as the general manager of said
company."
A summons was issued, and a return made by the sheriff
that he had "personally served the same on the 9th day of
July, 1894, on the Henrietta Mining and Milling Company, by
delivering to H. N. Palmer, superintendent and general manager of said company, . . . being the defendants named
in said summons, by delivering to each of said defendants personally, in the city of Prescott, county of Yavapai, a copy of
summons, and a true copy of the complaint in the action named
in said summons, attached to said summons."
Default having been made, judgment was entered against the
company personally, with a further clause that plaintiff have
a lien upon its property in the sum of $5748.57. The case

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

was taken to the Supreme Court of the Territory by writ of
error, where the judgment was modified by striking out the
lien upon the property, and in all other respects was affirmed,
and a new judgment entered against the sureties upon the
supersedeas bond.
Whereupon the Mining and Milling Company sued out a
writ of error from this court, insisting, in its assignments of
error, that "the said court below did not have jurisdiction of
the person of defendant for the reason that no service had
been had upon said defendant, either personal or constructive."
XJr. William 1.

Barnes and X/r?. Frank Asbury Johnson

for appellant.
M'.

. X1. Sanford and .2rkb. Robert E. _forrison for appellee.

Mr. JusTioE BROWN, *after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The affidavit of the plaintiff, and the return of the sheriff,
each stated that Palmer was the general manager of the company. No evidence to the contrary was introduced, and the
fact must therefore be assumed upon this record.
As the judgment of the district court was modified by the
Supreme Court, it became simply a personal judgment against
the company, and the only question presented is whether the
service of a summons upon the general manager of the company was, under the laws of Arizona, a sufficient service upon
the company itself.
Our attention is called to several sections of the Revised
Statutes of Arizona, (1887) the first of which is part of a chapter entitled "Foreign Corporation" and provides: "Sec. 348.
It shall be the duty of any association, company or corporation
organized or incorporated under the laws of any other State
or Territory . . . to file with the secretary of this Territory and the county recorder of the county in which such
enterprise, business, pursuit or occupation is proposed to be
located, or is located, the lawful appointment of an agent, upon

HENRIETTA MINING & MILLING CO. v. JOHNSON. 223
Opinion of the Court.

whom all notices and processes, including service of summons,
may be served, and when so served shall be deemed taken and
held to be a lawful, personal service," etc. There is no penalty
provided for a failure to file such appointment, though in the
next section, 34-9, it is declared that "every act done by it,
prior to the filing thereof, shall be utterly void." Beyond
this disability, it is left optional with the corporation to file
such appointment, and the record of this case shows that none
such was filed by the plaintiff in error.
The second section is taken from that chapter of the Code
of Civil Procedure entitled "Process and Returns": "Sec.
704. In suits against any incorporated company or joint stock
association the summons may be served on the president, secretary or treasurer of such company or association, or upon
the local agent representing such company or association, in
the county in which suit is brought, or by leaving a copy
of the same at the principal office cf the company during
office hours," etc.
There is a further provision in the same chapter, Sec. 712,
that when it is made to appear by affidavit that the defendant
"is a corporation incorporated under the laws of any other
State or Territory or foreign country, and doing business in
this Territory, or having property therein, but having no legally appointed or constituted agent in this Territory,
the clerk shall issue a summons, . . . and said sheriff shall
serve the same by making publication thereof in some newspaper," etc.; and by section 713, when the residence of defendant is known, the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, shall
forthwith deposit a copy of the summons and complaint in
the post office, postage prepaid, directed to the defendant at
his place of residence.
It is insisted by the plaintiff in error that the service in this
case upon its manager was ineffectual to bind the corporation,
and that a personal judgment under it could-only be obtained
by complying with section 348 and serving upon an agent
appointed in pursuance of that section; and that this position
holds good notwithstanding such appointment had never been
made. We are of opinion, however, that sections 348, 712

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

and 713, providing specially for service upon foreign corporations, were not intended to be exclusive, and were merely
designed to secure a special mode of service in case the corporation had ceased to do business in the Territory, or had
no local or official agent appointed in pursuance of section
348. Not only is the language of section 348 permissive in
the use of the words "may be served" upon the agent appointed under the statute, but the general language of section
'704, taken in connection with the general subject of the statute, "Process and Returns," indicates that no restriction was
intended to domestic corporations; and that the words "any
incorporated company or joint stock association" are as applicable to foreign as to domestic companies. No penalty is
imposed upon foreign corporations for failure to file the appointment of an agent under section 348, and the only disability which such failure entails is its incompetence to enforce
its rights by suit. If, as contended by the plaintiff in error,
the remedy against the foreign corporation be confined to
service of process upon such appointed agent, it results that,
if the corporation does not choose to file such appointment,
intending suitors are confined to the remedy by publication
provided by section 712, which, under the decisions of this
court, would be ineffectual to sustain a personal judgment.
Pennoyer v. iYef, 95 U. S. 714.
It is incredible that the legislature should have intended to
limit its own citizens to such an insufficient remedy, when the
corporation is actually doing business in the Territory and is
represented there by a manager or local agent.
The cases cited by the plaintiff in error do not sustain its
contention. In the Southern Building and Loan Association
v. iallum, 28 S. W. Rep. 420, it was held by the Supreme
Court of Arkansas, under a statute similar to section 348, that
a service made on an agent in a county other than that in
which the action was begun, and which failed to show that
he had been designated as prescribed, was insufficient to
authorize a judgment by default. Obviously, by section 348,
it is intended that service may be begun in any county and
served upon the appointed agent, and all for which this case

HENRIETTA MINING & MILLING CO. v. JOHNSON. 225
Opinion of the Court.

is authority is that, if it be served upon any other agent, the action must be brought in the county where such agent is served.
The opinion of the court was put upon this ground. In the
case under consideration, Palmer, the superintendent, was
served in the county of Yavapai, where the suit was begun.
The case of the State v. United States -Yutual Accident
Association, 67 Wisconsin, 624:, is against the proposition for
which it is cited. In that case service of a summons upon
an unlicensed foreign insurance company, by delivering a
copy to an agent of the company, was held to be sufficient,
the defendant never having made an appointment of an agent
under the statute. Said the court: "If the argument of counsel, to the effect that section 1977 on]y relates to agents
of such foreign insurance companies as are duly licensed to
do business within this State, is sound, then there would be
no possible way of commencing an action against an unlicensed
foreign insurance company doing business in this State in violation of the law. In other words, such construction would
reward such foreign insurance companies as refused to pay
the requisite license, by enabling them to retain the license
money and then shielding them from the enforcement of all
liability, whether on their contracts or otherwise, in the courts
of Wisconsin. Such construction would defeat the whole purpose and scope of the statute."
The cases from Michigan are too imperfectly reported to
be of any practical value. In Desper v. The Continental
Water -leter Company, 137 Mass. 252, the service of a bill
in equity by subpcena upon the treasurer of a foreign corpora,
tion, was held to be unauthorized by any statute, and also that
there was no method of bringing it in except by means of an
attachment of its property. Neither this nor that of Lewis
v. NVorthern Railroad,139 Mass. 294, is in point.
We are of opinion that the service upon Palmer was sufficient, and the judgment of the Supreme Court of Arizona is
therefore ,
Affirmed.
No. 138. HENRIETTA MINING AND MILLING COmpAY V. HILL.
Appeal from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Arizona. The
VOL. cLxI-15

OCTOBER TERI,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

facts in this case, so far as they bear upon the question in controversy, are precisely similar to the one just decided, and the judgment of the Supreme Court of Arizona is therefore
Affirmed.

BALTIMORE AND OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY v.
JOY.
,,a

2

iCERTIFICATE

FROM THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF APPEALS

FOR

THE

SIXTH CIRCUIT.
1051 2liI

is,

226
9d 677
2612
10161

No. 129.

Submitted Jamnary NS, 1899.-Decided February 20,

169D.

An action, pending in the Circuit Court of the United States sitting in
Ohio, brought by an injured person as plaintiff, to recover damages for
injuries sustained by the negligence of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
Company in operating its road in Indiana, does not finally abate upon
the death of the plaintiff before trial and judgment, but may be revived
and prosecuted to judgment by his executor or administrator, duly
appointed by the proper court in Ohio.
A right given by a statute of a State to revive a pending action for personal injuries in the name of the personal representative of a deceased
plaintiff is not lost upon the removal of the case into a. Federal court.
Whether a pending action may be revived in a Federal court upon the death
of. either party, and proceed to judgment, depends primarily upon the
laws of the jurisdiction in which the action was commenced, and in the
present case is not affected in any degree by the fact that the deceased
received his injuries in Indiana.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Hugh E. Bond, Jr., and -Mr.J R. Collins for the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.

No appearance for Joy.
MR.

JUSTICE HARLAw

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is before us upon a question of law certified by
the Judges of the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Sixth Circuit under the sixth section of the act of March
3, 1891, c. 517, 96 Stat. 826.

