OCTOBER TERM;, 1898.
Counsel for Parties.

LOMAX v. PICKERING.
ERROR TO THE SUPREMJE COURT OF THE STATE
OF ILLINOIS.
No. 123.

Submitted January 12, 1899.-

Decided February 20, 1899.

record in the Department at Washington of the approval by
the President of a deed made by an Indian to convey lands held by him
subject to
the provision in the treaty of Prairie du Chien that it was never
to be
leased or conveyed without the permission of the President,
is notice to
all concerned from the time it was made, and is similar, in
effect, to a
patent issued by the President for lands that belong to
the Government,

whicl is not required to be recorded in the county where the
land is

located.

The recording of a deed of such land, made without previous
approval of
the President, is notice of the grantee's title to subsequent purchasers;
and, when approved, operates to divest the title of the grantor
as against
a subsequent grantee.

THIS was an action of ejectment brought by Aquila IT.
Pickering against John A. Lomax and William Kolze to
recover possession of two parcels of land in Cook County,
Illinois, which had originally been granted by the United
States to certain Indians under the treaty of Prairie du Chien,
of July 29, 1829.
This case was before this court upon a former hearing, Pick-

ering v. Lomax, 145 U. S. 310, the report of which contains
a full statement of the facts, which need not be here repeated.
Upon that hearing the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Illinois was reversed, and the case remanded for a new trial,
which resulted in a judgment for Pickering, the plaintiff, and
in an affirmance of that judgment by the Supreme Court of
Illinois. Lomax v. Pickering, 165 Illinois, 431. To review
this judgment a second writ of error was sued out from this
court.
1-r. John 3T . Burgett for plaintiff in error.
2Laher and .fr. A. T. Browne were on his brief.

-11fr. John P. Ahrens for defendant in error.

.211>. James

LOMAX v. PICKERING.
Opinion of the Court.

S

R. JUSTiCE BRowN, after making the above statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The common source of title in this case was Alexander
Robinson, an Indian, to whom the lands were patented by
President Tyler, December 28, 1843, under the provisions of
Art. IV of the treaty of Prairie du Chien, 7 Stat. 320, subject
to the following proviso: "But never to be leased or conveyed
by him," (the grantee,) "them, his or their heirs, to any person
whatever, without the permission of the President of the
United States." The lands were subsequently allotted and
set off to Joseph Robinson, one of the patentee's children, by
a decree in partition of the Cook County Court of Common
Pleas.
Pickering claimed title through a deed from Joseph Robinson and wife to John F. Horton, dated August 3, 1858,
recorded July 16, 1861, but without the approval of the President endorsed thereon. The deed was, however, submitted
to and approved by the President, January 21, 1871, and a
certified copy of the deed with such approval recorded M arch
12, 1873.
Lomax's title was by deed from Joseph Robinson to Alexander McClure, dated November 22, 1870, submitted to and
approved by the President, February 24, 1871, and recorded
March 11, 1871, in Cook County.
Upon the first trial, plaintiff's chain of title being proved
the defendant Lomax introduced no evidence, but at the close
of plaintiff's testimony moved that the case be dismissed upon
the ground that the deed of August 3, 1858, from Joseph Robinson and wife to Horton was made in direct violation of the
terms of the patent, which required the approval of the President to the conveyance. This motion was granted, the court
being of opinion that Robinson had no authority to convey
without obtaining prior perniission of the President, and that
the subsequent approval of the deed was invalid. Thereupon
judgment was rendered for the defendant, which was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of Illinois. 120 Illinois, 289, 293.
The case was reversed by this court upon the ground that

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

the approval subsequently given by the President to the conveyance was retroactive, and was equivalent to permission
before execution and delivery. The case went back for a
new trial, when Lomax put in evidence the title above stated,
relying upon a sentence in the opinion of this court to the
effect that "if, after executing this deed, Robinson had given
another to another person with the permission of the President, a wholly different question would have arisen." Judgment having been rendered for the plaintiff, the case was
again taken to the Supreme Court of the State, which was of
opinion that the defendant did not stand in the relation of a
bonaficle purchaser to the property.
It will be observed that the deed to Horton of August 3,
1858, antedated the deed to McClure of February 22, 1870, by
more than twelve years, and was recorded July 16, 1861, while
the deed to McClure was recorded March 11, 1871, nearly ten
years thereafter. The deed to Horton also antedated the deed
to McClure in the approval of the President by about a month,
viz.: Horton, January 21, 1871; McClure, February 24, 1871.
Defendant, however, relies upon the fact that the McClure
deed was recorded with the approval of the President endorsed thereon March 11, 1871, while plaintiff's deed with
such approval was not recorded until March 12, 1873. The
real question then is whether the recording of the Horton
deed of July 16, 1861, without the approval of the President
endorsed thereon, was notice of plaintiff's title to subsequent
purchasers.
By section 30 of the conveyancing act of Illinois, it is provided that "all deeds, mortgages and other instruments in
writing which are authorized to be recorded shall take effect
and be in force from and after the time of filing the same for
record, and not before, as to all creditors and subsequent purchasers, without notice, and all such deeds and title papers
shall be adjudged void as to all such creditors and subsequent
purchasers without notice until the same shall be filed for
record."
The Supreme Court of Illinois was of opinion that the deed
to Horton was entitled to record, although it had not received

IOMAX v. PICKERLhNG.
Opinion of the Court.

the approval of the President. In delivering the opinion of
the court Mr. Justice Craig observed: "As respects the approval of the President, required by the treaty and the provision in the patent to render the deed effectual, we do not
think the recording laws have any bearing upon it. There
was a record of the approval of the President in the Department at Washington, and that record was notice to all concerned from the time it was made, and we do not think the
recording laws of the State require a copy of that record to
be recorded in the recorder's office where the land is located.
A record of that character is similar to a patent issued by the
President for lands that belong to the Government, which is
not required to be recorded in the county where the land is
located."
Even if this be not a construction of the state statute binding upon us, and decisive of the case, we regard it as a correct
exposition of the law.
The deed is an ordinary warranty deed upon its face, signed
by the parties, and regularly acknowledged before a justice
of the peace. There was nothing to apprise the recorder of
any want of authority to convey, or to justify him in refusing
to put the deed on record. Whether the grantors had authority to make the deed as between themselves and the
grantees, or subsequent purchasers, is a matter which did not
concern him. Though the deed might be impeached by showing that the grantor had no such authority, the record was
atnotice to subsequent purchasers that they had at least
interests.
their
tempted to convey
A deed may be void by reason of the infancy or coverture of
the grantors, and yet may be, under the laws of the State,
entitled to record and notice 'to subsequent purchasers. While
the record of a void deed is of no greater effect than the deed
itself, and is not such notice as will give protection to a bona
be a
,ide purchaser, yet it may, under certain circumstances,
the
that
notice to intending purchasers, or third persons,
title.
his
grantor has intended and undertaken to convey
Thus, in iMorm'ison, v. Brown, 83 Illinois, 562, a deed of trust
executed *bya married woman, her husband not uniting therein,

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

to secure the purchase money of the property, though void as a

conveyance, was nevertheless held to be an instrument in writ-

ing relating to real estate within the statute of Illinois, and,
when recorded, constructive notice to all subsequent purchasers of the lien of the original vendor upon the same for
the unpaid price. The court took the ground that while married women had no force or power to create a lien, subsequent
purchasers occupied the same position as they would have
(lone had the instrument been read to them before they became interested in the question.
So, in Teft v. fflunson, 57 N. Y. 97, the record of a mort-

gage prior to the acquisition of title by the grantor was held
to be constructive notice to a subsequent purchaser in good
faith, and under the recording act, giving it priority to the
title. See also United States Is.
Co. v. Sriver, 3 Md.
Ch. 381; Alderson v. Ames, 6 Maryland, 52; Stevens v.
Hlamyton, 46 Missouri, 404.
In this case however, it appears from McClure's own statement that when Robinson came to him in 1870 to sell him his
right to the land, he told him that he had already sold the
premises, but without the approval of the President, and that
McClure sent his own attorneys to examine the record. He
thus had not only constructive but actual notice of the Horton
deed.
The approval of the President was no proper part of the
deed. The language of the restriction in the original patent
was "but never to be leased or conveyed by him, [the grantee,]
them, his or their heirs, to any person whatever, without the
permission of the President of the United States." How that
permission should be obtained or expressed is left undetermined by the proviso. We see no reason why it might not
have been by a memorandum at the foot of the petition for
approval, or even by a letter to that effect. The essential fact
was that permission should be obtained and expressed in some
form, of which, in all probability, a record was kept in the
Department.
. Indeed, we think it sufficiently appears
that at the time .the
deed to McClure was approved by the President, February 24,

LOMAX v. PICKERING.
Opinion of the Court.

1871, there was on file in Washington the approval of the
President of the prior deed to Horton. There was put in
evidence a certificate of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs,
signed March 7, 1896, to a certified copy of the Horton deed,
with an affidavit as to the loss of the original, a further affidavit that the sale was an advantageous one for Robinson, and
the approval of the President, dated January 21, 1871. It
does not directly appear when the approval of the President
was put on file in the office of the Commissioner, but we think
the presumption is that it was filed as of its date. There was
nothing requiring that this approval should be filed in the
recorder's office in Cook County, and when McClure took his
deed of November 22, 1870, and obtained the approval of the
President of February 24, 1871, he took it with the chance
that the Horton deed had already been approved, and that the
power of the President had been exhausted. The approval
by the President of his deed was doubtless an inadvertence,
and, in view of the fact that he had already approved the
Horton deed, a nullity. By his approval of the first deed the
title of Robinson was wholly divested, and there was nothing
left upon which a subsequent approval could operate, unless
we are to assume that such subsequent approval in some way
revested the title in Robinson and passed it to McClure. No
new delivery was necessary to pass the title to Horton. United
States v. Schurz, 102 U. S. 378; Bicknell v. Comstock, 113 U. S.
149; Gilmore v. Scpp, 100 Illinois, 297; B runer v. .fanlove,
1 Scam. 156. No injustice was done to McClure, since he
already had notice, both by the record and by Robinson's
statement, that he had conveyed the land, and an examination
of the record in Washington would doubtless have shown that
the prior deed had received the approval of the President.
The- two deeds stand in the relation of two patents for the
same land, the second of which is uniformly held to be void.
There is nothing in the fact that the partition proceedings,
under which Robinson obtained title to the land in dispute,
were not approved by the 'President. Not only were these
partition proceedings set forth as a part of the record of the
case at the time he approved the Horton deed, but as already

OCTOBER TERAI, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

held in the prior case, (p. 316,) such approval was retroactive,
and operated as if it had been endorsed upon the deed when
originally given, and enured to the benefit of Horton and his
grantee, "not as a new title acquired by a warrantor subsequent to his deed enures to the benefit of the grantee, but as
a deed imperfect when executed, may be made perfect as of
the date when it was delivered."
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Illinois is therefore
Affirmed.

WILSON v. EUREKA CITY.
ERROR TO THE SUPEEME cOURT OF THE STATE OF UTAH.
No. 142.

Submitted January 17, 1699. -Decided

February 20,1899.

l
Section 12 of ordinance No. 10, of Eureka City, providing that "1No
person
shall move any building or frame of any building, into or upon any of
the public streets, lots or squares of the city, or cause the same to be
upon, or otherwise to obstruct the free passage of the streets, without
the written permission of the mayor, or president of the city council, or
in their absence a councillor. A violation of this section shall on conviction, subject the offender to a fine of not to exceed twenty-five dollars,"
is not in conflict with the provisions of the Constitution of the United
States.

SECTION 12 of ordinance number 10 of Eureka City, Utah,
provided as follows:
"No person shall move any building or frame of any building, into or upon any of the public streets, lots or squares of
the city, or cause the same to be upon, or otherwise to obstruct
the free passage of the streets, without the written permission
of the mayor, or president of the city council, or in their absence a councillor. A violation of this section shall on conviction, subject the offender to a fine of not to exceed twenty-five
dollars."
The plaintiff in error was tried for a violation of the ordinance in the justice's court of the city. He was convicted and

