ALLEN v. SMITH.
Syllabus.

In justice to the Attorney General it ought to be said that
his offer of $500 for the arrest and delivery of McNeil was a
general one; and that he did not assume to say that any officer of the Government, who was forbidden by law from receiving extra compensation, should receive any portion of the
reward. There was no attempt on his part to disregard the
previous limitation or to offer it to any one who was forbidden by law from receiving it. The subsequent action of the
Acting Attorney General in refusing to pay Matthews the reward upon the ground that the arrest of McNeil was performed in the line of his duty is a still clearer intimation that
no such construction as is put by the court upon the offer of
reward was intended by the Attorney General.
For these reasons I cannot concur in the opinion, though I
do not dissent from the result.
MR.JUSTICE HARLAN and MR. JUSTICE PEcKHAm dissented,

upon the ground that the offering or payment of a reward to
a public officer, for the performance of what was at all events
nothing more than his official duty, was against public policy,
and the act of Congress authorizing the Attorney General to
offer and pay rewards, did not include or authorize the offer
or payment of any reward to a public officer under such circumstances.

ALLEN v. SMITH.
SMITH v. ALLEN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
Nos. 168,176. Argued January 19, 1S99. -Decided

March 6, 1899.

The manufacturer of the sugar, and not the producer of the sugar cane,
is the person entitled to the "bounty on sugar" granted by the act of
MIarch 2, 1895, c. 189, to "producers and manufacturers of sugar in the
United States."

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

THIS was a controversy arising over the distribution of the
estate of Richard I. Allen, a large sugar planter of La Fourche
Parish, Louisiana, who died September 14, 1894, leaving a will
of which the following clauses only are material to the disposition of this case:
"I give to my wife, Bettie Allen, one half of my Rienzi
plantation and one half of all tools, mules, etc. The names of
my executors, etc., will be named hereafter. My executors
shall have from one to five years to sell and close up the estate,
as I fear property will be very low and dull. They can sell
part cash, part on time, eight per cent interest with vendor's
lien. I will that my wife do have one half of everything belonging to Rienzi, except the claim due me by the United States;
that and other property I will speak of further on. I appoint
as my executors, Ogden Smith and W. F. Collins, residing on
Rienzi plantation. I also appoint Mrs. Bettie Allen, executrix.
I give them full power to sell Rienzi plantation whenever they
find a good offer for all the property there belonging. When
it is sold half of all the proceeds, cash, notes, etc., is to belong
to my dear wife, Bettie Allen. The other half will be spoken
of hereafter. As I fear property will be very low, I give my
executors five years to work for a good price. In the meantime that they are waiting to sell, the place can be rented or
worked so as to pay all taxes and other charges; any over
that to go to Mrs. Bettie Allen's credit."
Letters testamentary were issued to William F. Collins,
Ogden Smith and LA.Elizabeth Greene, the widow, better
known as Bettie Allen, who were authorized by special order
to carry on and work the plantation, etc.
The executors did not agree as to the disposition of the estate; Mrs. Allen and Collins filing a provisional account of
their administration and praying for its approval, while. Smith
filed a separate account, prayed for its approval, and stated
that he disagreed with his coexecutors in several particulars,
-and therefore filed an account in which his coexecutors did
not concur. The principal dispute seems to have been over
the cash left by the deceased, which Mrs. Allen claimed under
the will, and Smith insisted belonged to the legal heirs wh&

ALLEN v. SMITH.
Statement of the Case.

were not cut off by the will. Mrs. Allen also claimed the crop
of the Rienzi plantation, while Smith insisted it belonged
to the legatees named in the will, to whom the realty was
Opposition to the approval of both accounts
bequeathed.
were also filed by various parties interested in the estate,
and for various reasons not necessary to be here enumerated.
Judgment was delivered by the district court, June 10, 1895,
settling the questions in dispute between the parties interested,
and an appeal was taken to the Supreme Court of Louisiana,
which rendered an opinion March 9, 1896, varying the decree
of the court below to the extent of holding Mrs. Allen entitled
to the net proceeds of the crop for the year 1894, but affirming it in other respects. 48 La. Ann. 1036. No reference,
however, was made in the proceedings up to this time to the
Government bounty upon sugar, amounting to $11,569.35,
which was collected by Mrs. Allen, and which forms the subject of the present litigation.
This suit was initiated by a petition filed August 18, 1896,
by Collins and Mrs. Allen for the approval of their final
account, and of the proposed distribution of the undistributed
assets, among which was the bounty granted by Congress for
sugar produced on the Rienzi plantation for the year 1894, the
portion received, $11,569.35, being all that the estate was
entitled to out of the appropriation made by Congress for this
purpose. "This amount the accountants proposed to turn
over to Mrs. Bettie Allen as the owner of the net proceeds of
the crop of 1894: on the Rienzi plantation, under the will of
the testator and the decree of the Supreme Court."
Smith also filed a final account and an opposition to that of
Mrs. Allen and Collins, particularly opposing giving any part
of the bounty to Mrs. Allen, stating that "this money. formed
no part of the crop of 1894, is an unwilled asset, and must
be distributed among the legal heirs who have not been cut off
by the will, in accordance with the petitioner's final account
filed herewith." These heirs, as stated by him in his account,
were (1) the estate of Thomas H. Allen, Sen., a deceased
brother of the testator, represented by J. Louis Aucoin, administrator; (2) two children of Mrs. Myra Turner, a deceased

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Counsel for Mrs. Allen.

sister; (3) five children of Mrs. Cynthia Smith, a deceased
sister. Opposition was also filed by these several classes of
heirs to the accounts of Mrs. Allen and Collins, and by certain other heirs who were not recognized by the executors, to
that of Smith. Upon consideration of these various pleadings
and the testimony introduced in connection therewith, the
district court was of opinion that the bounty formed no part
of the crop proper or the proceeds thereof. "Though based
on the crop as a means of calculation, and conditioned on the
production of the crop by the owner of the plantation, under
certain rules, it was a pure gratuity from the Government;"
that it did not therefore go to MNrs. Allen under the will, but
to the heirs as an unwilled portion.
An appeal was taken to the Supreme Court by the Smith
heirs, by Ogden Smith, executor, and by Mrs. Allen and
Collins. That court first held that the bounty was a gratuity
from the Government, though based upon an estimate of the
crop as a means of calculation; that its allowance was conditioned on the fulfilment by the deceased of certain prerequisites; that the equitable claim of the deceased to the
bounty had been created during his lifetime, the license obtained and all conditions precedent complied with; that it
formed no part of the crops of 1894 or 1895, nor of their proceeds; that the executors did nothing but make the necessary
proofs preparatory to its collection and receive payment of
the money. "It must consequently be classed as an unwilled
asset of the deceased, and not as part of the net proceeds of
the crop of 1894, passing, under the will, to Mrs. Bettie
Allen;" and that it must pass to the account of the legal
heirs. 49 La. Ann. 1096. Upon a rehearing, applied for by
both parties, that court modified its views, and adjudged that
the bounty money in controversy be divided equally; that
one half be distributed among the heirs as an unwilled portion, and that the other half be delivered to Mrs. Allen as
legatee.
From this decree both parties sued out a writ of
error from this court. 49 La. Ann. 1096, 1112.
,Mi'.J. F. Pierson for Mrs. Allen. .21r. Charlton R?. Beattie
and 21r. Taylor Beattie filed a brief for same.

ALLEN v. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

-Jr. Albert P. Fenner for Aucoin.
.Mr'. Samuel H7enderson, Jr., and -r.
were on the brief.

.Mr. Charles E. Fenner,
Charles Payne Fenner

Xr. Henry Chiapella for Turner and Smith.
Sithon filed a brief for Smith's heirs.

.Lr.L. F.

M . JUSTICE BROWN, after making the above statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

This case involves the question whether, under the act of
Congress and the will of Richard H. Allen, the bounty of
eight tenths of one per cent per pound, granted by Congress
to the "producer" of sugar, was payable to his widow or to
his heirs at law.
In the course of the litigation in the state courts a large
number of questions were raised and decided which are not
pertinent to this issue. So far as these questions depend upon
the construction of state laws or of the will of Mr. Allen,
they are beyond our cognizance. So far as the question of
bounty depends upon the construction of that law, the decision
of the Supreme Court is equally binding upon us; but so far
as it depends upon the construction of the act of Congress
awarding such bounty, it is subject to reexamination here.
The course of legislation upon the subject of the sugar
bounty is set forth at length in the opinion of this court in
United States v. Realty Co., 163 U. S. 427, and is briefly as
follows:
By the tariff act of October 1, 1890, c. 1244, 26 Stat. 567, it
was provided in paragraph 231 that on and after July 1, 1891,
and until July 1, 1905, there should be paid "to the producer
of sugar" a variable bounty, dependent upon polariscope
tests, "under such rules and regulations as the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue . . . shall prescribe." Then follow
three paragraphs requiring the producer to give notice to the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue of the place of production,
the methods employed, and an estimate of the amount to be
produced, together with an application for a license and an
accompanying bond. The Commissioner was required to issue

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

this license, and to certify to the Secretary of the Treasury
the amount of the bounty for which the Secretary was authorized to draw warrants on the Treasury. This act was
repealed August 27, 1894, c. 349, 28 Stat. 509, while the crop
of 1894 was in progress of growth, and about a fortnight
before the death of Mr. Allen. But by a subsequent act of
March 2, 1895, c. 189, 28 Stat. 910, 933, it was enacted that
there should be paid to those "producers and manufacturers
of sugar" who had complied with the provisions of the previous law a similar bounty upon sugar manufactured and produced by them previous to August 28, 1894, upon which no
bounty had been previously paid. As the sugar in question
in this case was not manufactured and produced prior to
August 28, 1894, this provision was not applicable; but there
was a further clause (under which the bounty in this case was
paid) to the effect that there should be paid to "those producers who complied with the provisions" of the previous
bounty law of 1890, by filing an application for license and
bond thereunder required, prior to July 1, 1894, and who
would have been entitled to receive a license as provided for
in said act, a bounty of eight tenths of a cent per pound on
the sugars actually manufactured and produced during that
part of the fiscal year ending June 30, 1895, comprised in the
period commencing August 20, 1894, and ending June 30,
1895, both days inclusive. The constitutionality of this act
was affirmed by this court in United States v. Realty Co., 16a
U. S.427.
At the time of Mr. Allen's death, September 19, 1894, and
for many years prior thereto, he was the owner of a valuable
sugar plantation, upon which he was engaged in the cultivation of cane and the manufacture of sugar. At this time
there was standing in his fields a large crop of cane nearly
ready for harvesting. In anticipation of this crop and of the
manufacture of sugar therefrom, Mr. Allen had complied with
all the provisions of the bounty law, and would, but for the
repeal of the act of 1894, about one month prior to his death,
have been entitled to collect the bounty. While, then, there
was no bounty provision in force at the time of his death,

ALLEN v. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

Congress, in March of the following year, enacted the bounty
law above specified in fulfilment of its moral obligation to
recompense those who had planted their cane upon the supposition that.the bounty granted by the act of 1890 would be
continued. The crop of cane upon his plantation at his death
was harvested by his executors at the expense of the funds
in their hands, which expense was deducted from the gross
proceeds of the sugar.
The material provisions of his will are as follows:
1. "I give to my wife, Bettie Allen, one half on my
Rienzi plantation and one half of all tools, mules, etc."
2. "My executors shall have from one to five years to sell
and close up the estate."
3. "I will that my wife do have one half of everything
belonging to Rienzi plantation, except the claim due me by
the United States." (This was not the claim for bounty.)
4. "When it" (the plantation) "is sold half of all the proceeds, cash, notes, etc., is to belong to my wife, Bettie Allen."
"As I fear property will 'be very low, I give my executors
five years to work for a good price."
5. "In the meantime, that they are waiting to sell, the
place can be rented or worked to pay all taxes and other
charges, any over that to go to Mrs. Bettie Allen's credit."
Under the last clause of the will the executors, while awaiting a favorable opportunity to sell the plantation, were authorized to work it so as to pay all taxes and other charges,
and to place the net proceeds to Mrs. Allen's credit. In construing this clause the Supreme Court of Louisiana held, upon
the first hearing, 48 La. Ann. 1036, that Mistress Bettie was
entitled to the net proceeds of the crop of the Rienzi plantation for the years 1894-1895. At the time of the filing of
their first account by the executors, the crop of 1894 had not
been sold by them, and the bounty granted by the act of
March 2, 1895, had not been collected; consequently these
two items were reserved to be afterwards accounted for by
the executors. A further question, however, arose, and that
was as to whether, in making up the net proceeds of the crop
of 1894, the expenses incurred prior to the death of the tes-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

tator should be deducted, as well as those incurred by the
executors after the death of the testator. Both the district
court and the Supreme Court were of opinion that the will
contemplated and dealt with the renting or cultivation of the
plantation after the death of the testator, and during such a
period of time as it might remain under the administration
of the executors pending a sale; that the date at which the
expenses were to begin was evidently that at which the
administration of the executors commenced, and only those
incurred during their administration should be deducted from
the proceeds of the crop, in order to ascertain the net proceeds thereof, including the expenses of making the sale.
49 La. Ann. 1096.
The Supreme Court was further of the opinion that the
bounty money which was collected from the Government by
the executors formed no part of the crops of 1894 and 1895,
nor of their proceeds; that it was not in esse at the time
those crops were grown and gathered; that the executors did
nothing but make the necessary proofs preparatory to its
collection and received payment of the money, and that it
should therefore be classed as an unwilled asset of the deceased, and not as part of the net proceeds of the crop of
1894, passing, under the will, to Mrs. Allen. 49 La. Ann.
1096. But, upon a rehearing of this question, 49 La. Ann.
1112, the Supreme Court modified its views to a certain
extent, treated the case as one depending upon the question
who was the producer of the crop within the meaning of the
act of Congress, and held that the producer of the cane was
to be the first to receive the benefit of the bounty on complying with certain formalities; that the act placed the manufacturer of the sugar, in the matter of the bounty laws, in a
secondary position; but that both production and manufacture
were essential in order to enable the producer to recover the
bounty; that to determine who was the producer it was
necessary to consider the questions of title and ownership;
that the crop had 'been planted and cultivated by Allen, and
all expenses to the date of his death were paid from his
funds; that he had earned the value of the crop on that date,

ALLEN v. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

and had also earned a proportionate share of the bounty, not
because the bounty was a part of the crop or its proceeds, but
because it was granted to the producer of the crop; that in
determining who was the producer, it could not exclude from
consideration the labor applied under the direction of the
owner of the plantation and the amount expended by him;
that Mistress Bettie was not the exclusive producer, and was,
therefore, not entitled to the whole bounty of the Government granted to the producer who produced the entire thing
- a crop.
In its opinion upon the rehearing the Supreme Court adjudged that under the will of Allen the proceeds of the manufacture of sugar carried on after his death were for the account
of Mrs. Allen and not for that of the estate, and that as a
consequence of this construction Mrs. Allen was the manufacturer of the sugar made in the sugar house; that is to say, that
whilst the executors may have manufactured the sugar they
did so as the agents and for the account of Mrs. Allen, and she
was therefore the producer of the sugar, in so far as the manufacture thereof was concerned. In delivering the opinion the
court used the following language: "But there are other
clauses of the will which, in our view, extend her right
and show that she was the producer after the death of Mr.
Allen. She paid all the expenses of the crop; she was to
receive the proceeds under the terms of the will; indeed,
she was the owner of the crop. She can well be considered,
as we think, the producer. We desire it to be well understood that, in our opinion, the bounty money is no part of the
crop or proceeds of the crop. The question was: Who was
the owner and producer of the crop after the death of the
testator ?"
Having thus determined that under the will of Mr. Allen
she, through the executors, was entitled to all the proceeds of
the manufacture of sugar in the sugar house, the court proceeded to take away from Mrs. Allen a part of these proceeds
upon the theory that, by the act of Congress, the bounty was
given, not to the manufacturer of the sugar, but to the producer of the cane. In doing this it necessarily took from Mrs.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Allen a part of the bounty belonging to her as manufacturer
of sugar under the act of Congress, and gave it to the legal
heirs of Allen, because they had produced the cane from
which the sugar had been manufactured. This, therefore,
necessarily raised a Federal question, since it involved a construction of the act of Congress. The theory upon which the
court did this is thus stated in the opinion: "The end of the
bounty was to encourage the production of cane. It devolved
upon us to determine by whom the cane was produced. In
our judgment, after carefully reading the act, it is evident that
the producer was to be the first to receive the benefit of the
bounty.

.

.

.

The act (although it includes the manufac-

ture of cane into sugar as one of the essentials) places the
manufacture of the sugar in matter of the bounty scheme in a
secondary position. In other words, in our view production
was a first and manufacture a secondary consideration. Each,
however, was essential in order to enable the producer to recover the bounty." The conclusion of the court was that, as
the cost of cultivation was about equal to the cost of manufacture, the heirs at law were entitled to one half of the bounty
and Mrs. Allen the other half.
The correctness of this construction is the question presented
for our consideration. In the final production of sugar there
are two distinct processes involved: (1) The raising of the cane;
(2) the manufacture of the sugar from the cane so raised. If
the cane be raised and the sugar be manufactured by the same
person, he is beyond peradventure the "producer" of the
sugar within the meaning of the statute; but if the cane be
raised by one person and the sugar manufactured by another,
which is the producer within the intent of the act? Or, if, as
in this case, the cane be raised by the testator and he die while
the crop is growing, and his executors reap it and convert it
into sugar, which is the producer and which is entitled to the
net proceeds of the crop? Conceding the question of what
are the net proceeds of the crop is one determinable by the
state courts alone, it is so commingled with the Federal question, who, under the act of Congress, was the producer of this
crop, that it is scarcely possible to give a construction to the

ALLEN v. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

one without also taking into consideration the bearing of the
other. In this particular the case is not unlike that of Briggs
v. Walker, 171 U. S. 466, in which, where certain moneys had
been collected of the United States by Briggs' executors, this
court assumed to determine who were the "legal representatives" of Briggs, and for whose benefit under the act of Congress the money had been collected.
It is quite evident that Allen himself was not the producer
of the sugar. He had planted the crop of cane upon his own
plantation. He had given notice and a bond to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, and had applied for a license; but
he had done nothing toward the production of the sugar at
the time of his death beyond raising the cane, which certainly
would not have entitled him to be considered a producer of
the sugar. The word "producer" does not differ essentially
in its legal aspects from the word "manufacturer," except that
it is more commonly used to denote a person who raises agricultural crops and puts them in a condition for the market.
In the case of sugar a process of strict manufacture is also involved in converting the cane into its final product. In a number of cases arising in this court under the revenue laws, it is
said that the word "manufacture" is ordinarily used to denote an article upon the material of which labor has been expended to make the finished product. That such product is
often the result of several processes, each one of which is a
separate and distinct manufacture, and usually receives a separate name; or, as stated in Tide Water Oil Co. v. United States,
171 U. S. 210, 216: "Raw materials may be and often are
subjectpd to successive processes of manufacture, each one of
which is complete in itself, and several of which may be required to make the final product. Thus logs are first manufactured into boards, planks, joists, scantling, etc., and then
by entirely different processes are fashioned into boxes, furniture, doors, window sashes, trimmings and the thousand and
one articles manufactured wholly or in part of wood. The
steel spring of a watch is made ultimately from iron ore, but
a large number of processes or transformations, each successive
step in which is a distinct process of manufacture, and for

OCTOBER TERMW, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

which the article so manufactured receives a different name."
So the one who raises the cane is undoubtedly entitled to be
considered the producer of the cane, but he is not the producer of the sugar. That appellation is reserved for him who
turns out the finished product.
Neither can Mrs. Allen, nor the heirs of her husband, be
said to be the direct producers of the sugar. Neither of them
was the owner of the crop, which belonged to the plantation while growing, and would, as hereinafter stated, have
passed to the purchaser, had a sale been made while the cane
was still uncut. One half of the plantation passed under the
will to Mistress Bettie, and the other half to the heirs of her
husband.
There remain only the executors who, as between the estate
of Allen and the Government, must be deemed the producers
of the sugar. By the will they were authorized to rent or
work the plantation as they pleased, to pay all taxes and
other charges, and to put the residue to the credit of Mrs.
Allen. The inchoate right to the bounty obtained by Allen before his death was a personal asset, which undoubtedly passed
to the executors, who subsequently perfected that right and
received the money.
Of course this money did not belong to the executors personally. They held it for the benefit of the estate and as
agents for all persons interested therein; and the question as
between the different heirs and legatee who shall be deemed
the producer of the sugar remains to be settled. We are all
of opinion that this question must be answered in favor of
Mistress Bettie. If the cane when cut had been sold, the proceeds, over and above all expenses incurred since her husband's
death, would have belonged to her, but not the bounty eo
homine, since the sugar had not been produced nor the bounty
earned. But if such sale had been made, the cane undoubtedly would have fetched a price largely increased by the fact
that the purchaser would receive a bounty upon the manufacture of the sugar. It is impossible to suppose that the price
of the cane would not be seriously affected by the promise of
the bounty, though perhaps not to the full amount of such

ALLEN v. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

bobnty. In this way Mrs. Allen would have received indirectly the benefit of the bounty, although she did not produce
the sugar. On the other hand, if the cane be converted into
sugar, it is equally just that she should receive the bounty.
To deny it to her would place her in a worse position than
she would have been in if the executors had sold the cane
when it was cut. Whether she received it directly or indirectly makes no difference in principle.
The difficulty with the position of the Supreme Court of
Louisiana is this: That if A should raise the cane and sell
it to B, who manufactured it into sugar, A and B would
be entitled to share in the bounty, although A may have
received a much larger price for his cane than he would have
received if there had been no bounty. Under the terms of the
will Mistress Bettie was entitled to receive the entire proceeds
of the crop, over and above the expenses, taxes and other
charges; and whether these came from a price received from
the cane increased by the offer of a bounty, or from the
bounty actually received upon the production of the sugar,
is wholly immaterial. To give to one who raises the cane and
sells it to a manufacturer any part of the bounty, is in reality
,to give him a double bounty, since he must necessarily receive
one in the enhanced price given for the cane. On the other
hand, the manufacturer of the sugar is entitled to the proceeds of his sugar and to whatever the law has annexed thereto
as an incident.
To return to the illustration of manufactures. Can it be
possible that, if a bounty were offered for the manufacture of
furniture, the manufacturer of the finished product would be
obliged to share such bounty with the owner of the trees, or
the manufacturer of the lumber cut from such trees, from
which the furniture was made? Or, under similar circumstances, would the manufacturer of watches be compelled to
share the bounty with the scores of prior manufacturers who
contributed directly or indirectly to the production of the
various articles of mechanism which go to make up the finished watch? To state this question is to answer it; and yet,
if the producer of the cane be entitled to any portion of the
VOL. cLxxUi-26

OCTOBER TERIMf, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

bounty, why are not the manufacturers of the constituent parts
of a finished product?
The Supreme Court of Louisiana held that the widow was
not chargeable with any part of the expense of the crop incurred prior to her husband's death, but that does not change
her attitude to the sugar as its actual producer, nor deprive
her of the benefit of the bounty; nor do we think that her
right to such bounty is affected by the fact that the bounty
law in existence when Allen applied for his license was repealed before his death, and another law passed in the following spring renewing the bounty applicable to the crop of the
previous year. Such act was passed, as was held by this
court, in United States v. Realty Co., 163 U. S. 427, in recognition of a moral obligation to those who had put in their
crop the previous year upon the faith of the bounty law then
in existence. It was not so much a gift by the Government
as a reward paid in consideration of expenses incurred by the
planters upon the faith of the Government's promise to pay a
bounty to the manufacturers and producers of sugar. As
applied to this case, we think the act of 1895 should be construed as a continuation of the prior bounty. To say that it
is an "unwilled asset" is practically to bold that it is a gift
from the Government "without anything in the nature of a
consideration," and that the amount of sugar produced is only
to be considered as the measure of the bounty. This dissociates the bounty altogether from the motive which actuated
Congress in granting it, and turns it into a mere donation
of so much money, which it cannot be presumed to have
made, even if it had the power. Bounties granted by a government are never pure donations, but are allowed either
in consideration of services rendered or to be rendered, objects of public interest to be obtained, production or manufacture to be stimulated, or moral obligations to be recognized.
To grant a bounty irrespective altogether of these consi.derations would be an act of pure agrarianism; and to determine who is entitled to the benefit of the bounty is but
little more than to determine who has rendered the consideration.

ALLEN v. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

The act giving the supplementary bounty to replace that
which should have been paid under the original act clearly
did not contemplate giving a bounty to any other producer
than the one designated by the original act. That act plainly
gives the bounty only to the manufacturer and not to the
grower. It follows, therefore, that the court, accepting its
construction of the will as unquestionable, declared that although Mrs. Allen was a manufacturer of the sugar and the
successor of Mr. Allen in that regard, was yet not entitled to
the whole bounty, because, under its construction of the act
of Congress, the grower of the cane was the primary.person
intended to be benefited by the act. As it is obvious that the
person intended to be benefite4 by the act of Congress was
the manufacturer, it follows that the Supreme Court of Louisiana, after finding that Mirs. Allen was the manufacturer, has
taken from her a portion of the bounty to which she was
-entitled under the act of Congress, on the erroneous theory
that that act gave the bounty to the grower of the cane instead of to the manufacturer.
We do not undertake to say that the crop of growing or
maturing cane passed to Mrs. Allen at the date of her hus,band's death, since if the executors had chosen to sell the
,plantation the next day, this cane would have passed to'the
vendee. In this the common law and the civil law agree.
-(1 Washb. on Real Prop. 5th ed.' 11; Code Napoleon, art. 520.)
'The same principle is incorporated in the Civil Code of Louisi:ana: "Art. 465. Standing crops and the fruits of trees not
.gathered, and trees before they are cut down, are likewise immovable, and are considered as part of the land to which they
;are attached. As soon as the crop is cut, and the fruits
gathered, or the trees cut down, although not yet carried off,
they are movables." But what she did own was the proceeds
of the crop; the right in case the plantation was not sold
to have this crop harvested for her benefit, and if manufactured into sugar, to have the proceeds of such sugar and all the
incidents thereto placed to her credit.
For the reasons above given, we think she must be considered
:as the producer of the sugar, and that it is immaterial that she

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

was not the producer of the cane, since the two are distinct
and separate articles of production.
It results from this that the decree of the Supreme Court of
Louisiana must be reversed, and the cases remanded to
that court for further proceedings in consonance with
this opinion.

ST.

LOUIS, IRON MOUNTAIN AND ST.
RAILWAY COMPANY v. PAUL.

PAUL

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.

No. 120. Submitted January 10, 1899. -Decided

March 6, 1899.

The act of the legislature of Arkansas of March 25, 1889, entitled an act to
provide for the protection of servants and employ~s of railroads, is not
in conflict with the provisions of the Constitution of the United States.

THIS action was commenced in a justice's court in Saline
Township, Saline County, Arkansas, by Charles Paul against
the St. Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern Railway Company,
a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Arkansas, and owning and operating a railroad within that State, to
recover $21.80 due him as a laborer, and a penalty of $1.25 per
day for failure to pay him what was due him when he was
discharged. The case was carried by appeal to the Circuit
Court of Saline County and there tried de novo. Defendant
demurred to so much of the complaint as sought to recover
the penalty on the ground that the act of the general assembly of Arkansas entitled "An act to provide for the protection
of servants and employ~s of railroads," approved March 25,
1889, Acts Ark. 1889, 76, which provided therefor, was in
violation of articles five and fourteen of the Amendments to
the Constitution of the United States, and also in violation of
the constitution of the State of Arkansas. The demurrer was
overruled, and defendant answered, setting up certain matters
not material here, and reiterating in its third paragraph the

