DUNLAP v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

contrary would compel to the conclusion that the law, whilst
allowing honorably discharged soldiers and sailors to take
advantage of its provisions, had at the same time conferred
upon them the power to violate its inhibitions. The purpose
of Congress in allowing those named in the proviso to reap
the benefits of the law-was not to confer the power to do the
very thing which the act in the most express terms sedulously
sought to prevent.
fflrmed.

________

DUNLAP v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 218. Argued November 29, 30, 1898. -Decided

February 20, 1899.

The act of August 28, 1894, c. 349, does not grant a right in prcsenti to all
persons who may, after the passage of the law, use alcohol in the arts, or
in any medicinal or other like compounds, to a rebate or repayment of
the tax paid on such alcohol, but the grant was conditioned on use, in
compliance with regulations to be prescribed, in the absence of which
regulations the right did not so vest as to create a cause of action by
reason of the unregulated use.
DUNLAP was, and had been for many years, "engaged in
the manufacture of a product of the arts known and described
as ' stiff hats,"' in Brooklyn, New York. Between August 28,
1894, and April 241, 1895, he used 7060.95 proof gallons of
domestic alcohol to dissolve the shellac required to stiffen
hats made at his factory. An internal revenue tax of ninety
cents per proof gallon had been paid upon 2604.17 gallons
before August 28, 1894, making $2344.40, and a tax of one
dollar and ten cents per proof gallon had been paid upon the
remainiatg 4456.78 gallons after Augrust 28, 1894, making
$4900.81, or $7245.21 in all. In October, 1894, Dunlap notified the Collector of Internal Revenue of the First District of
New York that he was using domestic alcohol at his factory,
and that under section 61 of the act of August 28, 1894, c. 349,
28 Stat. 509, 567, he claimed a rebate of the internal revenue
VOL. cLxxIII-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

tax paid on said alcohol, and he requested the collector to
take such official action relative to inspection and surveillance
as the law and regulations might require. Subsequently he
tendered to the collector affidavits and other evidence tending
to show that he had used the aforesaid quantity of alcohol in
his business, together with stamps showing payment of tax
thereon, and he requested the, collector to visit the factory
and satisfy himself by an examination of the books or in any
other manner, that the alcohol had been used as alleged. He
also requested payment of the amount of tax appearing from
the stamps to have been paid. The collector declined to entertain the application, and Dunlap filed a petition in the
Court of Claims to recover the full amount of the tax which
had been paid, as shown by the stamps, which, on December 6,
1897, was dismissed, whereupon he took this appeal.
The findings of fact set forth, among other things, that "in
the early part of September, 1894, the Secretary of the Treasury requested the Commissioner of Internal Revenue to have
regulations drafted for the use of alcohol in the arts, etc., and
for the presentation of claims for rebate of the tax;" and that
gsubsequently there was correspondence between these officers as follows :"
From the Commissioner to the Secretary, October 3, 1894:
"I have the honor to report that the preparation of regulations governing the use of alcohol in the arts and manufactures, with rebate of the internal revenue tax as provided by
section 61 of the revenue act of August 28, 1894, has been
and is now receiving very serious consideration from this
office, and many communications have been received from,
and personal interviews had with, manufacturers who use
alcohol in their establishments; and it is found, in every case
without exception, all agree that no regulation can be enforced without official supervision, and that without such
supervision the interests of manufacturers and of the Government alike will suffer through the perpetration of frauds.
"As it is found to be impossible to prepare these regulations in a way that will prove satisfactory without official
supervision, I have the honor to inquire whether there is any

DUNLAP v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

appropriation'or any general provision of law authorizing the
expenditure of money by this Department needed to procure
such supervision."
From the Secretary to the Commissioner, October 5, 1894:
"Yours of the 3d instant, inquiring whether there is any
appropriation or general provision of law authorizing the
expenditure of money by the Treasury Department or by
the Commissioner of the Internal Revenue to provide supervision of manufacturers using alcohol in the arts, etc., under
section 61 of the act of August 28, 1894, is received, and in
response I have the honor to state that no appropriation
whatever, either special or general, has been made by Con,
gress for the purpose mentioned, or for any other purpose
connected with the execution of the section of the statute
referred to."
From the Commissioner to the Secretary, October 5, 1894:
"I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter
of the 5th instant, in reply to my letter of the 3d instant, in
which you state that no appropriation whatever, either special
or general, has been made by Congress authorizing the expenditure of money by the Treasury Department or by the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue to provide supervision of
manufacturers using alcohol in the arts, etc., under section 61
of the act of August 28, 1894, or for any purpose connected
with the execution of the section of the statute referred to.
"In reply I would suggest that, inasmuch as I have been
unable, as stated in my letter of the 3d instant, after thorough
consideration of the matter, and upon consultation by letter
and by personal interview with a large number of the most
prominent manufacturers, to prepare any set of regulations
which would yield adequate protection to the Government
and the honest manufacturer without official supervision, which
has not been provided for by Congress, the preparation of
these regulations be delayed until Congress has opportunity
to supply this omission."
From the Secretary to the Commissioner, October 6, 1894:
"Your communication of yesterday, in reference to the
execution of section 61 of the act of August 28, 1894-, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

advising me that, for the reasons therein stated, you are unable 'to prepare any set of regulations which would yield
adequate protection to the Government and the honest manufacturer without official supervision, which has not been provided for by Congress,' is received. I have also given much
attention to the subject, and have fully considered all the
arguments and suggestions submitted by parties interested
in the execution of the section of the statute referred to, and
have arrived at the conclusion that, until further action is
taken by Congress, it is not possible to establish and enforce
such regulations as are absolutely necessary for an effective
and beneficial execution of the law.
"You are, therefore, instructed to take no further action
in the matter for the present."
In consequence of this last letter a circular was issued by
the Commissioner, November 24, 1894, stating:
"In view of the fact that this Department has been unable
to formulate effective regulations for carrying out the provisions of section 61 of the act of August 28, 1894, relating
to the rebate of tax on alcohol used in the 'arts, or in any
medicinal or other like compounds,' collectors of internal
revenue will, on receiving notice from manufacturers of the
intended use of alcohol for the purpose named, advise such
manufacturers that, in the absence of regulations on the subject, no official inspection of the alcohol so used or the articles
manufactured therefrom can be made, and that no application
for such rebate can be allowed or entertained."
Finding VIII was:
"On December 3, 1894, the Secretary of the Treasury transmitted to the Congress the annual report on the finances, containing the following statement:
"' Owing to defects in the legislation the Treasury Department has been unable to execute the provisions of section
sixty-one of the act of August 28, 1894, permitting the use of
alcohol in the arts, or in any medicinal or other like compound, without the payment of the internal tax. The act
made no appropriation to defray the expenses of its administration, or for the payment of taxes provided for; and, after

DUNLAP v. UNITED STATES.
Counsel for Parties.

full consideration of the subject and an unsuccessful attempt
to frame regulations which would, without official supervision,
protect the Government and the manufacturers, the Departinent was constrained to abandon the effort and await the
further action of Congress.
Itis estimated in the office of the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue that the drawbacks or repayments provided for in
the act will amount to not less than $10,000,000 per annum,
and that the expense of the necessary official supervision will
not be less than $500,000 per annum. For the information of
Congress, the correspondence between the -Secretary and the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue upon this subject will
accompany this report. Finance report, 1894, LXVI'
"Appended to this report was a draft of regulations proposed for carrying out section 61, copies of communications
from the Commissioner of Internal Revenue explaining, the
estimates of the appropriations required, and copies of the
official correspondence between the Secretary and the Commissioner, given in the preceding finding, showing the
action of the Department. The proposed regulations were as
follows. "
[These regulations, consisting of thirty-three articles and
including many subdivisions, were set forth at length.]
The ninth finding was to the effect that the amounts appropriated in the urgent deficiency act of January 25, 1895, 28
Stat. 636, c. 43, aggregating $245,095, were the amounts of
the Secretary's estimate transmitted -to Congress December 4,
1894, as necessitated by the income tax provisions of the act
of August 28, 1894.
The case is reported 33 0. Cl. 135.
.Mr'.George A. .ing and ./rr. Joseph HT. Coate for appelhant. -Mr. B. F. Tracy and 3'. William B. King were on
their briefMr. Ckarles C. Binney and Mr. Attorney General for
appellees.

OCTOBER TERII, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.
AIR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
Section 61 of the act of August 28, 1891, reads as follows:
"Any manufacturer finding it necessary to use alcohol in
the arts, or in any medicinal or other like compound, may
use the same under regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury, and on satisfying the collector of
internal revenue for the district wherein he resides or carries
on .business that he has complied with such regulations and
has used such alcohol therein, and exhibiting and delivering
up the stamps which show that a tax has been paid thereon,
shall be entitled to receive from the Treasury of the United
States a rebate or repayment of the tax so paid."
The Court of Claims held that as the rebate provided for
was to be paid only on alcohol used "under regulations to be
prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury ;" and as this
alcohol had not been so used, there could be no recovery;
and, speaking through Weldon, J., among other things, said:
"The right of the manufacturer to a rebate being dependent
on the regulations of the Secretary, such regulations are conditions precedent to his right of repayment, and therefore no
right of repayment can vest until in pursuance of regulations
the manufacturer uses alcohol as contemplated by the statute.
The statute having prescribed certain conditions upon which
the right of the claimant is predicated, and from which it
originates, there can be no cause of action unless it affirmatively appears that such conditions have been complied with
on the part of the claimant. This is a proceeding based upon
an alleged condition of liability upon the part of the defendants,
and'it must be shown that all the essential elements of that
condition exist before any liability can accrue. Conceding
that it was the duty of the Secretary to prescribe regulations
consistent with the purpose and requirements of the law, his
failure to do so will not supply a necessary element in the cause
of the claimant."
Alcohol had for years been used in the arts and in medicinal and other like compounds, and had been taxed and

DUNLAP v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

no rebate allowed, but by this section, manufacturers who
used alcohol in the arts, etc., under regulations prescribed by
the Secretary, were granted a rebate on proof of such regulated use and of the payment of the tax on the alcohol so used.
There were no regulations in respect to the 'use of alcohol
in the arts at the time this alcohol was used, but it is contended that the right to repayment was absolutely vested by
the statute, dependent on the mere fact of actual use in the arts,
and not on use in compliance with regulations. So that durifig such period of time as might be required for the framing
of regulations, or as might elapse, if additional legislation were
found necessary, all alcohol used in the arts would be free
from taxation, although the exemption applied only to regulated use. But if the right of the manufacturer could not
enure without regulations, and Congress had left it to the
Secretary to determirie whether any which he could prescribe
and enforce would adequately protect the revenue and the
manufacturers, and he had concluded to the contrary; or, if
lie had found that it was not practicable to enforce such as he
believed necessary, without further legislation, then it is obvious the right to the rebate would not attach; in any view
the right was not absolute but was conditioned on the performance of an executive act, and the absence-of performance
left the condition of the existence of the right unfulfilled.
The distinction between the one class of cases and the
other is clear, and has been observed in many decisions of this
court.
By the eighth section of the act of June 12, 1866, c. 114, 14
Stat. 60, it was provided, "that when the quarterly returns of
any postmaster of the third, fourth or fifth class show that
the salary allowed is ten per centum less than it would be on
the basis of commissions under the act of eighteen hundred
and fifty-four, fixing compensation, then the Postmaster General shall review and readjust under the provisions of said section," (namely, ยง 2, act of July 1, 1864, c. 197, 13 Stat. 335,
336;) and in United States v. Jec Lean, 95 U. S. 750, it was
held that the law imposed no obligation on the Government to
pay an increased salary, though warranted by the quarterly

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

returns of an office, until readjustment by the Postmaster
General. Mr. Justice Strong, delivering the opinion, after
remarking that the "readjustment was an executive act, made
necessary by the law in order to perfect any liability of the
Government,"'said:
"But courts cannot perform executive duties, nor treat
them as performed when they have been neglected. They
cannot enforce rights which are dependent for their existence
upon a prior performance by an executive officer of certain
duties he has failed to perform. The right asserted by the
claimant rests upon a condition unfulfilled." And see United
States v. 7 erdier, 164- U. S. 213.
On the other hand, in Campbell v. United States, 107 U. S.
407, it was ruled that where a statute declares that there shall
be a rebate or drawback of a tax under certain circumstances,
the amount to be determined under regulations prescribed by
the Secretary of the Treasury, the inaction of the Secretary
is immaterial, and the drawback must be paid whether ascertained under the Secretary's regulations or not, because the
right to the drawback depends on the statute, and not on the
Secretary's regulations, which relate merely to the ascertainment of the amount. The difference between the statutes in
regard to drawbacks, and the wording of section 61, is very
marked. Drawback laws relate to an article after it is manufactured. The mere use of imported materials in manufacturing does not entitle the manufacturer to a drawback, and it is
only when the manufactured goods are exported that the reason for the repayment of duty arises. In such instances the
exportation and the ascertainment of the character and quality
of the imported materials existing in the manufactured article
are subjected to regulation, but not the process of manufacture.
The case of Campbeil only concerned the ascertainment of
the amount of drawback, and it was held that inasmuch as the
amount had been proved to the satisfaction of the court as
completely as if every reasonable regulation had been complied with, a recovery could be sustained.
If we compare section 61 with the statute involved in
Campbell v. United States, (act of August 5, 1861, 12 Stat.

DUNLAP v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

292, c. 45, ยง 4,) the distinction between this case and that will
be clearly discernible.

ยง 61, act of August 28, 1894.

ยง 4, act of August 5, 1861.

"Any manufacturer finding
it necessary to use alcohol in
the arts, or in any medicinal
or other like compound, may
use the same under regulations
to be prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury, and on
satisfying the collector of internal revenue for the district
wherein he resides or carries
on business that he has complied with such regulations
and has used such alcohol
therein, and exhibiting and delivering up the stamps which
show that a tax has been paid
thereon, shall be entitled to
receive from the Treasurer of
the United States a rebate or
repayment of the tax so paid."

"From and after the passage of this act, there shall be
allowed, on all articles wholly
manufactured of materials imported, on which duties have
been paid, when exported, a
drawback, equal in amount to
the duty paid on such materials and no more, to be ascertained under such regulations
as shall be prescribed by the
Secretary of the Treasury;
Provided, that ten per centurn on the amount of all
drawbacks, so allowed, shall
be retained for the use of the
United States by the collectors paying such drawbacks
respectively."

By the act of 1894 Congress required that the thing itself
should be done under official regulations; by the act of 1861,
simply that proof of the doing of the act should be made in
the manner prescribed.
In the case before us the first condition was that the alcohol
should have been used by the manufacturer in accordance with
regulations; and as that condition was not fulfilled, it is difficult to hold that any justiciable right by action in assumpsit
arose.
This is the result of the section taken in its literal meaning, and as the rebate constituted in effect an exemption from
taxation, we perceive no ground which would justify a departure from the plain words employed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Nor are we able to see that the letter of the statute did not
fully disclose the intent.
This section was one of many relating to the taxation of
distilled spirits, which imposed a higher tax and introduced
certain new requirements in regard to regauging, general
bonded warehouses, etc., the object to derive more revenue
from spirits used as beverages being perfectly clear; and the
general intention to forego the revenue that had been pre-.
viously derived from spirits used in the arts could only be
carried out in consistency with the general tenor of the whole
body of laws regulating the tax on distilled spirits, which
undertook to guard the revenue at all points, and which required from the officers of the Government evidence that everything had been correctly done. The regulations contemplated
by section 61 were regulations to insure the bona fide use in
the arts, etc., of all alcohol on which a rebate was to be paid.
and to prevent such payment on alcohol not so used; and
these were to be specific regulations under that section, and
could not otherwise be framed than in the exercise of a
large discretion based on years of experience in the Treasury
Department.
Since, as counsel for Government argue, the peculiar nature
of alcohol itself, the materials capable of being distilled being
plentiful, the process of distillation easy, and the profit, if the
tax were evaded, necessarily great, had led in the course of
thirty years to a minute and stringent system of laws, aimed
at protecting the Government in every particular, it seems
clear that when Congress undertook to provide for refunding
the tax on alcohol when used in the arts, it manifestly regarded adequate regulations to prevent loss through fraudulent claims as absolutely an essential prerequisite; and may
reasonably be held to have left it to the Secretary to determine whether or not such regulations could be framed, and if
so, whether further legislation would be required. It is true
that the right to the rebate was derived from the statute, but
it was the statute itself which postponed the existence of. the
right until the Secretary had prescribed regulations if he found
it practicable to do so.

DUNLAP v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Without questioning the doctrine that debates in Congress
are not appropriate sources of information from which to discover the meaning of a statute passed by that body, United
States v. Trans-3itissouri Freight Association, 166 U. S. 290,
318, it is nevertheless interesting to note that efforts were
made in the Senate to amend the bill by the addition of sections which, while making alcohol used in the arts free from
'the tax, sought to secure the Government from fraud by provisions for the methylating of such spirits so as to render
them unfit for use as a beverage; that these proposed amendments were rejected, 26 Cong. Rec. 6935, 6936 ; and that subsequently section 61 was adopted as an amendment, it being
urged in its support that "if the Secretary of the Treasury
and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue think they cannot
adopt any regulations which will prevent fraud, then nothing
will be done under it; but if they conclude they can adopt
such regulations as will prevent fraud in the use of alcohol
in the manufactures and the arts, then there will be relief
under it." 26 Cong. Rec. p. 6985.
As soon as the act of August 28, 1894, became a law, without the approval of the President, Congress adjourned, and
at its first meeting thereafter the Secretary reported a draft
of the regulations he desired to prescribe, stating that their
enforcement would cost at least half a million of dollars annually, for ,which no appropriation was available, and that therefore he could not execute the section until Congress took
further action, and he transmitted the correspondence between himself and the Commissioner, including his letter of
October 6, 1894, instructing the Commissioner to take no
action regarding the matter.
Congress was thus distinctly informed that no claims for
rebate would be entertained in tha absence of farther legislation, but none such was had, and finally, on June 3, 1896,
section 61 was repealed, and the appointment of a joint select
committee was authorized to "consider all questions relating
to the use of alcohol in the manufactures and arts free of tax,
and to report their conclusions to Congress on the first Monday in December, eighteen hundred and ninety-six," with

OCTOBER TER21, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

power to "summon witnesses, administer oaths, print testimony or other information." 29 Stat. 195, c. 310.
Numerous other provisions of the act called for regulations
by the Secretary of the Treasury, such as those relating to
the collection of customs duties and the free list; to the importation or manufacture in bond or withdrawal from bond
free of tax; to drawbacks on imported merchandise; to the
collection of internal revenue, and some others; but these
related to matters for whose efficient regulation the Secretary
of the Treasury was invested with adequate power, and their
subject-matter was different from that of section 61.
If the duty of the Secretary to prescribe regulations was
merely ministerial, and a mandamus could, under circumstances, have issued to compel him to discharge it, would not
the judgment at which he arrived, the action which he took,
and his reference of the matter to Congress, have furnished
a complet3 defence? But it is insisted that by reason of the
exercise of discretionary power necessarily involved in prescribing regulations as contemplated, the Secretary could not
have been thus compelled to act. We think the argument
entitled to great weight, and that it demonstrates the intention of Congress to leave the entire matter to the Treasury
Department to ascertain what would be needed in order to
carry the section into effect. INothing could have been further from the mind of Congress than that repayment must be
made on the unregulated use of alcohol in the arts, if in the
judgment of the Department, as the matter stood, such use
could not be regulated.
All this, however, only tends to sustain the conclusion of the
Court of Claims that this was not the case of a right granted
in presenti to all persons who might, after the passage of the
law, actually use alcohol in the arts, or in any medicinal or
other like compounds, to a rebate or repayment of the tax
paid on such alcohol, but that the grant of the right was
conditioned on use in compliance with regulations to be prescribed, in the absence of which the right could not vest so
as to create a cause of action by reason of the unregulated
use. The decisions bearing on the subject are examined and

UNITED STATES v. NAVARRE.
Opinion of the Court.

discussed in the opinion of the Court of Claims, and we do
not feel called on to recapitulate them here.
Judgment ajffrmed.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN, MR. JUSTICE WHITE, MR. JUSTICE PEckHAm and MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, dissented.

UNITED STATES v. NAVARRE.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 393. Submitted January 9, 1899.-Decided February 20, 1S99.

Claims for depredations on the Pottawatomie Indians committed by Indians
were properly allowed by the Secretary of the. Interior under the treaty
of August 7, 1868, and are valid claims.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

-Mr. Charles C. B'inney and Xr. Assistant Attorney General
Pradt for the United States.
AMr. J. H. McGowan and Mr. John 'Wharton Clark for
Navarre.

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.
Claims for depredations committed on members of the
Pottawatomie tribe of Indians were referred to the Court of
Claims for adjudication by the acts of Congress hereafter
quoted..
The appellees in pursuance of said acts of Congress filed a
-petition setting forth claims for depredations committed on
them by white men, and prayed judgment therefor.
The proof showed depredations committed by Indians as
well as by white men, and the Court of Claims gave judgoment accordingly, and the United States appealed.
Only the claims allowed for property taken by Indians are
contested. They amount. to the sum of $5890.

