LAKE SHORE & MICH. SOUTH. RAILWAY v. OHIO. 285
Syllabus.

obstructed. This is such a case. In Ew pa'te Royall, it was
stated by Mr. Justice Harlan, in naming some of the exceptions to the general rule there laid down, that "When the
petitioner is in custody by state authority for an act done or
omitted to be done in pursuance of a law of the United States
or of an order, process or decree of a court or judge thereof;
or where, being a subject or citizen of a foreign State, and
domiciled therein, he is in custody, under like authority, for
an act done or omitted under any alleged right, title, authority, privilege, protection or exemption claimed under the commission or order or sanction of any foreign State or under
color thereof, the validity and effect whereof depend upon the
law of nations; in such and like cases of urgency, involving
the authority and operations of the General Government or
the obligations of this country to or its relations with foreign
nations, the courts of the United States have frequently interposed by writs of habeas eorpus and discharged prisoners who
were held in custody under state authority."
For the reasons herein given we think the order of the Circuit Court of Appeals, affirming the Circuit Court, was right,
and it must be
Affirmed.
MR. JusTIcE HARLAN concurred in the judgment, but not in
all the reasoning of the opinion.
The CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

LAKE SHORE & MICHIGAN SOUTHERN RAILWAY
COMPANY v. OHIO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 95. Argued December 18, 1898. -Decided

February 20, 1899.

The statute of Ohio relating to railroad companies, in that State which
provides that "Each company shall cause three, each way, of its regular
trains carrying passengers, if so many are run daily, Sundays excepted,
to stop at a station, city or village, containing over three thousand in-

OCTOBER TERMIV, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.
habitants, for a time sufficient to receive and let off passengers; if a company, or any agent or employ6 thereof, violate, or cause or permit to be
violated, this provision, such company, agent or employ6 shall be liable
to a forfeiture of not more than one hundred nor less than twenty-five
dollars, to be recovered in an action in the name of the State, upon the
complaint of any person, before a justice of the peace of the county in
which the violation occurs, for the benefit of the general fund of the
county; and in all cases in which a forfeiture occurs under the provisions
of this section, the company whose agent or employ6 caused or permitted such violation shall be liable for the amount of the forfeiture,
and the conductor in charge of such train shall be held, prima facie,
to have caused the violation," is not, in the absence of legislation by
Congress on the subject, repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States, when applied to interstate trains, carrying interstate commerce
through the State of Ohio on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern
Railway.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Xir. George C. Greene for plaintiff in error.
Ar. W. H. Polhamus for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSrME

HARLA-w delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was commenced before a justice of the peace
of the county of Cuyahoga, Ohio, to recover the penalty prescribed by section 3320 of the Revised Statutes of that State.
That section is a part of a chapter relating to railroad companies, and, as amended by the act of April 13, 1889, provides:
"Each company shall cause three, each way, of its regular
trains carrying passengers, if so many are run daily, Sundays
excepted, to stop at a station, city or village, containing over
three thousand inhabitants, for a time sufficient to receive and
let off passengers; if a company, or any agent or employ6
thereof, violate, or cause or permit to be violated, this provision, such company, agent or employ6 shall be liable to a
forfeiture of not more than one hundred nor less than twentyfive dollars, to be recovered in an action in the name of the
State, upon the complaint of any person, before a justice of
the peace of the county in which the violation occurs, for the
benefit of the general fund of the county; and in all cases in
which a forfeiture occurs under the provisions of this section,

LAKE SHORE & MICH. SOUTH. RAILWAY v. OHIO. 287
Opinion of the Court.

the company whose agent or employs caused or permitted
such violation shall be liable for the amount of the forfeiture,
and the conductor in charge of such train shall be held, Prima
facie, to have caused the violation." Laws of Ohio, 1889,
vol. 86, p. 291; Rev. Stat. Ohio, 1890, ยง 3320.
The case was removed for trial into the court of common
pleas of Cuyahoga County in which a judgment was rendered
against the railroad company for the sum of one hundred dollars. Upon writ of error to the Circuit Court of that county
the judgment was affirmed, and the judgment of the latter
court was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Ohio.
The facts upon which the case was determined in the state
court were as follows:
The plaintiff Lawrence is a resident of West Cleveland, a
municipal corporation of Ohio having more than three thousand inhabitants.
The defendant railway company is a corporation organized
under the respective laws of Ohio, New York, Pennsylvania,
Indiana, iichigan and Illinois, and owns and operates a railroad located partly within the village of West Cleveland. Its
line extends from Chicago through those States to Buffalo.
On the 9th day of October, 1890, as well as for some time
prior thereto and thereafter, the company caused to run daily
both ways over its road within the limits of West Cleveland
three or more regular trains carrying passengers. And on
that day (which was not Sunday) it did not stop or cause to
be stopped within that village more than one of such trains
each way long enough to receive or let off passengers.
On the day above named and after that date the company was
engaged in carrying both passengers and freight over its railroad from Chicago and other stations in Indiana and Michigan
through each of said several States to and into New York, Pennsylvania and Ohio and to Buffalo, and from Buffalo through
said States to Chicago. It did not on that day nor shortly prior
thereto nor up to the commencement of the present suit, run
daily both ways or either way over said road through the village of West Cleveland, three regular trains nor more than
one regular train each way carrying passengers "which were

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

not engaged in interstate commerce, or that did not have upon
them passengers who had paid through fare, and were entitled
to ride in said trains going in the one direction from the city
of Chicago to the city of Buffalo, through the States of Indiana,
Ohio and Pennsylvania, and those going the other direction
from the city of Buffalo

.

.

.

through said States to the

city of Chicago."
On or about the day named the company operated but one
regular train carrying passengers each way that was not engaged in carrying such through passengers, and that train did
stop at West Cleveland on that day for a time sufficient to
receive and let off passengers.
The through trains that passed westwardly through West
Cleveland on the 9th day of October, 1890, were a limited express train having two baggage and express cars, one passenger coach and three sleepers, from New York to Chicago; a
fast mail train having five mail cars, one passenger coach and
one sleeper from New York to Chicago; and a train having
one mail car, two baggage and express cars, four passenger
coaches and one sleeper from Cleveland to Chicago. The
trains running eastwardly on the same day through West
Cleveland were a limited express train having one baggage
and express car and three sleepers from Chicago to New
York; a train having one baggage and express car, three passenger coaches and two sleepers from Chicago to New York;
a train having one mail car, two baggage and express cars
and seven passenger coaches from Chicago to Buffalo; and a
train having three mail cars and one sleeper from Chicago to
New York.
The average time required to stop a train of cars and receive
and let off passengers is three minutes.
The number of villages in Ohio containing three thousand
inhabitants through which the above trains passed on the day
named was thirteen.
The trial court found as a conclusion of law that within the
meaning of the Constitution of the United States the statute of
Ohio was not a regulation of commerce among the States and
was valid until Congress acted upon the subject. This gen-

LAKE SHORE & MICH. SOUTH. RAILWAY v. OHIO. 289
Opinion of the Court.

eral view was affirmed by the circuit court of Cuyahoga
County and by the Supreme Court of Ohio.The plaintiff in error contends that as the power to regulate interstate commerce is vested in Congress the statute of
Ohio in its application to trains engaged in such commerce
is directly repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.
In support of this contention it insists that an interstate
railroad carrier has the right to start its train at any point in
one State and pass into and through another State without
taking up or setting down passengers within the limits of the
latter State. As applied to the present case, that contention
means that the defendant company, although an Ohio corporation deriving all its franchises and privileges from that State,
may, if it so wills, deprive the people along its line in Ohio of
the benefits of interstate communication by its railroad; in
short, that the company if it saw fit to do so could, beyond
the power of Ohio to prevent itrefuse to stop within that
State trains that started from points beyond its limits, or even
trains starting in Ohio destined to places in other States.
In the argument at the bar as well as in the printed brief
of counsel, reference was made to the numerous cases in this
court adjudging that what are called the police powers of the
States were not surrendered to the General Government when
the Constitution was ordained but remained with the several
States of the Union. And it was asserted with 'much confidence that while regulations adopted by competent local authority in order to protect or promote the public health, the
public morals or the public safety have been sustained where
such regulations only incidentally affected commerce among
the States, the principles announced in former adjudications
condemn as repugnant to the Constitution of the United States
all local regulations that affect interstate commerce in any
degree if established merely to subserve the public conven-

ience.
One of the cases cited in support of this position is Rennington v. Georgia, 163 U. S. 299, 303, 308, 317, which involved the validity of a statute of Georgia providing thht
"if any freight train shall be run on any railroad in this
VOL. CLxxM-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

State on the Sabbath Day (known as Sunday), the superintendent of such railroad company, or the officer having charge
of the business of that department of the railroad, shall be liable for indictment for a misdemeanor in each county through
which such trains shall pass, and on conviction shall be punovided, always, That whenever any train on
ished. .......
any railroad in this State, having in such train one or more
cars loaded with live stock, which train shall be delayed beyond schedule time, shall not be required to lay over on the
line of road or route during Sunday, but may run on to the
point where, by due course of shipment or consignment,
the next stock pen on the route may be, where said animals
may be fed and watered, according to the facilities usually
afforded for such transportation. And it shall be lawful for
the freight trains on the different railroads in this State running over said roads on Saturday night, to run through to
destination: Provided,The time of arrival, according to the
schedule by which the train or trains started on the trip, shall
not be later than eight o'clock on Sunday morning." This
court said: "The well-settled rule is, that if a statute purporting to have been enacted to protect the public health, the
public morals or the public safety has no real or substantial
relation to those objects, or is a palpable invasion of rights
secured by the fundamental law, it is the duty of courts to so
adjudge, and thereby give effect to the Constitution."
The contention in that case was that the running of railroad
cars laden with interstate freight was committed exclusively
to the control and supervision of the National Government;
and that although Congress had not taken any affirmative
action upon the subject, state legislation interrupting interstate commerce even for a limited time only, whatever might
be its object and however essential such legislation might be
for the comfort, peace or safety of the people of the State,
was a regulation of interstate commerce forbidden by the
Constitution of the United States.
After observing that the argument in behalf of the defendant rested upon the erroneous assumption that the statute of
Georgia was such a regulation of interstate commerce as was

LAKE SHORE & MvICH. SOUTH. RAILWAY v. OHIO. 291
Opinion of the Court.

forbidden by the Constitution without reference to affirmative
action by 0ongress, and not merely a statute enacted by the
State under its police power, and which, although in some
degree affecting interstate commerce, did not go beyond the
necessities of the case, and therefore was valid, at least until
Congress intervened, this court, upon a review of the adjudged
cases, said: "These authorities make it clear that the legislative enactments of the States, passed under their admitted
police powers, and having a real relation to the domestic
peace, order, health and safety of their people, but which,
by their necessary operation, affect to some extent or for a
limited time the conduct of commerce among the States, are
yet not invalid by force alone of the grant of power to Congress to regulate such commerce; and, if not obnoxious to
some other constitutional provision or destructive of some right
secured by the fundamental law, are to be respected in the
courts of the Union until they are superseded and displaced
by some act of Congress passed in execution of the power
granted to it by the Constitution. Local laws of the character mentioned have their source in the powers which the
States reserved and never surrendered to Congress, of providing for the public health, the public morals and the public
safety, and are not, within the meaning of the Constitution,
and considered in their own nature, regulations of interstate
commerce simply because, for a limited time or to a limited
extent, they cover the field occupied by those engaged in such
commerce. The statute of Georgia is not directed against
interstate commerce. It establishes a rule of civil conduct
applicable alike to all freight trains, domestic as well as interstate. It applies to the transportation of interstate freight
the same rule precisely that it applies to the transportation
of domestic freight." Again : "We are of opinion that such
a law, although in a limited degree affecting interstate commerce, is not for that reason a needless intrusion upon the
domain of Federal jurisdiction, nor strictly a regulation of
interstate commerce, but, considered in its own nature, is an
ordinary police regulation designed to secure the well-being
and to promote the general welfare of the people within the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

State by which it was established, and therefore not invalid
by force alone of the Constitution of the United States."
It is insisted by counsel that these and observations to the
same effect in different cases show that the police powers of
the States, when exerted with reference to matters more or
less connected with interstate commerce, are restricted in their
exercise, so far as the National Constitution is concerned, to
regulations pertaining to the health, morals or safety of the
public, and do not embrace regulations designed merely to
promote the public convenience.
This is an erroneous view of the adjudications of this court.
While cases to which counsel refer involved the validity of
state laws having reference directly to the public health, the
public morals or the public safety, in no one of them was
there any occasion to determine whether the police powers
of the States extended to regulations incidentally affecting
interstate commerce but which were designed only to promote the public convenience or the general welfare. There
are however numerous decisions by this court to the effect
that the States may legislate with reference simply to the
public convenience, subject of course to the condition that
such legislation be not inconsistent with the National Constitution, nor with any act of Congress passed in pursuance of
that instrument, nor in derogation of any right granted or
secured by it. As the question now presented is one of great
importance, it will be well to refer to some cases of the latter
class.
In Gilman v. Philadelphia, 3 Wall. 713, 729, which involved the validity of a state enactment authorizing the construction of a permanent bridge over the Schuylkill River
within the limits of Philadelphia, and which bridge in fact
interfered with the use of the river by vessels of a certain
size which had been long accustomed to navigate it, the court
said : "It must not be forgotten that bridges, which are connecting parts of turnpikes, streets and railroads, are means of
commercial transportation, as well as navigable waters, and
that the commerce which passes over a bridge may be much
greater than would ever be transported on the water it ob-

LAKE SHORE & MICH. SOUTH. RAILWAY v. OHIO. 293
Opinion of the Court.

structs. It is for the municipalpower to weigh the considerations qohich belong to the subject, and to decide which shall be
preferred,and how far either shall be made subservient to the
other. The States have always exercised this power, and from
the nature and objects of the two systems of government they
must always continue to exercise it, subject, however, in all
cases, to the paramount authority of Congress, when.ever the
power of the States shall be exerted within the sphere of the
commercial power which belongs to the nation."
*So, in Pound v. Turck, 95 U. S.459, 464, which was a case
where obstructions-piers and booms - had been placed under
the authority of the State of Wisconsin in the Chippewa River,
one of the navigable waters of the United States, it was said:
"There are within the State of Wisconsin, and perhaps other
States, many small streains navigable for a short distance from
their mouths in one of the great rivers of the country, by
steamboats, but whose greatest value in water carriage is as
outlets to saw-logs, sawed lumber, coal, salt, etc. In order to
develop their greatest utility in that regard, it is often essential that such structures as dams, booms, piers, etc., should be
used, which are substantial obstructions to general navigation,
and more or less so to rafts and barges. But to the legislature
of the State may be most appropriately confided the authority
to authorize these structures where their use will do more good
than harm, and to impose such regulations and limitations in
their construction and use as will best reconcile and accommodate the interest of all concerned in the matter. And since the
doctrine we have deduced from the cases recognizes the right of
Congress to interfere and control the matter whenever it may
deem it necessary to do so, the exercise of this limited power
may all the more safely be confided to the local legislatures."
The same principles were announced in Escanaba Company
v. Chicago, 107 U. S.678, 683. That case involved the validity
of a certain local ordinance regulating the opening and closing of bridges over the Chicago River within the limits of the
city of Chicago. That ordinance required the bridges to be
closed at certain hours of the day, so as not to obstruct the
passage over them of vast numbers of operatives and other

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

people going to and from their respective places of business.
It was conceded that by the closing of the bridges at those
hours vessels were obstructed in their use of the river. This
court in that case said: "The Chicago River and its branches
must, therefore, be deemed navigable waters of the United
States, over which Congress under its commercial power may
exercise control to the extent necessary to protect, preserve
and improve their free navigation. But the States have full
power to regulate within their limits matters of internal police,
including in that general designation whatever will promote
the peace, comfort, convenience andprosperity of their people.

This power embraces the construction of roads, canals and
bridges, and the establishment of ferries, and it can generally
be exercised more wisely by the States than by a distant authority. They are the first to see the importance of such
means of internal communication, and are more deeply concerned than others in their wise management. Illinois is
more immediately affected by the bridges over the Chicago
River and its branches than any other State, and is more directly concerned for the prosperity of the city of Chicago,for
the convenience and comfort of its inhabitants,and the growth

of its commerce. And nowhere could the power to control the
bridges in that city, their construction, form and strength, and
the size of their draws, and the manner and times of using
them, be better vested than with the State, or the authorities
of the city upon whom it has devolved that duty. When its
power is exercised so as to unnecessarily obstruct the navigation of the river or its branches, Congress may interfere and
remove the obstruction. If the power of the State and that
of the Federal government come in conflict, the latter must
control and the former yield. This necessarily follows from
the position given by the Constitution to legislation in pursuance of it, as the supreme law of the land. But until Congress acts on the subject the power of the State over bridges
across its navigable streams is plenary." It was consequently
adjudged that the city ordinance was not to be deemed such a
regulation of interstate commerce as, in the absence of national
legislation, should be deemed invalid.

LAKE SHORE & MICH. SOUTH. RAILWAY v. OHIO. 295
Opinion of the Court.

In Cardwell v. American Bridge Company, 113 U. S. 205,
208, it was held that a statute of California authorizing a
bridge without a draw or opening for the 1assage of vessels to
be constructed over a navigable water of the United States
within that State was not -in the absence of legislation by
Congress -to be deemed repugnant to the commerce clause
of the Constitution. The court, referring to prior cases, said:
"In these cases the control of Congress over navigable waters
within the States so as to preserve their free navigation under
the commercial clause of the Constitution, the power of the
States within which they lie to authorize the construction of
bridges over them until Congress intervenes and supersedes
their authority, and the right of private parties to interfere
with their construction or continuance, have been fully considered, and we are entirely satisfied with the soundness of the
conclusions reached. They recognize the full power of the
States to regulate within their limits matters of internal police,
which embraces among other things the construction, repair
and maintenance of roads and bridges, and the establishment
of ferries; that the States are more likely to appreciate the
importance of these means of internal communication and to
provide for their proper management, than a government at a
distance; and that, as to bridges over navigable streams, their
power is subordinate to that of Congress, as an act of the latter
body is, by the Constitution, made the supreme law of the
land; but that until Congress acts on the subject their power
is plenary. When Congress acts directly with reference to the
bridges authorized by the State, its will must control so far as
may be necessary to secure the free navigation of the streams."
The doctrines of this case were reaffirmed in Huse v. Glover,
119 U. S. 543.
In llMestern Union Telegraph Co. v. James, 162 U. S. 650,
662, the question was presented whether a state enactment
requiring telegraph companies with lines of wires wholly or
partly within the State to receive telegrams and on payment
of the charges thereon to deliver them with due diligence, was
not a regulation of interstate commerce when applied to interstate telegrams. We held that such enactments did not in any

OCTOBER. TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

just sense regulate interstate commerce. It was said in that
case: "While it is vitally important that commerce between
the States should be unembarrassed by vexatious state regulations regarding it, yet on the other hand there aie many occasions where the police power of the State can be properly
exercised to insure a faithful and prompt performance of duty
within the limits of the State upon the part of those who are
engaged in interstate commerce. We think the statute in
question is one of that class, and in the absence of any legislation by Congress, the statute is a valid exercise of the power
of the State over the subject."
So, in Rich nond d Alleghany Railroad v. Patterson Tobacco Co., 169 U. S. 311, 315, it was adjudged that a statute
of Virginia defining the obligations of carriers who accepted
for transportation anything directed to points of destination
beyond the termini of their own lines or routes, was not, in
its application to interstate business, a regulation of interstate
commerce within the meaning of the Constitution. This
court said: "Of course, in a latitudinarian sense any restriction as to the evidence of a contract, relating to interstate
commerce, may be said to be a limitation on the contract
itself. But this remote effect, resulting from the lawful exercise by a State of its power to determine the form in which
contracts may be proven, does not amount to a regulation of
interstate commerce." And the court cited in support of its
conclusion the case of Chicago, Xfilwaukee &c. Railway v.
Solan, 169 U. S. 133, 137, which involved the validity of state
regulations as to the liability of carriers of passengers, and in
which it was said: "They are not in themselves regulations of
interstate commerce, although they control in some degree
the conduct and liability of those engaged in such commerce.
So long as Congress has not legislated upon the particular
subject, they are rather to be regarded as legislation in aid of
such commerce, and as a rightful exercise of the police power
of the State to regulate the relative rights and duties of all
persons and corporations within its limits."
Now, it is evident that these cases had no reference to the
health, morals or safety of the people of the State, but only

LAKE SHORE & MICH. SOUTH. RAILWAY v. OHIO.

297

Opinion of the Court.

to the public convenience. They recognized the fundamental
principle that outside of the field directly occupied by the
General Government under the powers granted to it by the
Constitution, all questions arising within a State that relate to
its internal order, or that involve the public convenience or
the general good, are primarily for the determination of the
State, and that its legislative enactments relating to those
subjects, and which are not inconsistent with the state constitution, are to be respected and enforced in the courts of the
Union if they do not by their operation directly entrench
upon the authority of the United States or violate some right
protected by the National Constitution. The power here referred to is - to use the words of Chief Justice Shaw - the
power "to make, ordain and, establish all manner of wholesome and reasonable laws, statutes and ordinances, either with
penalties or without, not repugnant to the Constitution, as
they shall judge to be for the good and welfare of the Com.monwealth and of the subjects of the same." Commonwealth
v. Alger, 7 Cushing, 53, 85. Mr. Cooley well said: "It cannot be doubted that there is ample power in the legislative
department of the State to adopt all necessary legislation for
the purpose of enforcing the obligations of railway companies
as carriers of persons and goods to accommodate the public
impartially, and to make every reasonable provision for carrying with safety and expedition." Cooley's Const. Lim. (6th
ed.) p. 715. It may be that such legislation is not within the
"police power" of a State, as those words have been sometimes, although inaccurately, used. But in our opinion the
power, whether called police, governmental or legislative,
exists in each State, by appropriate enactments not forbidden
by its own constitution or by the Constitution of the United
States, to regulate the relative rights and duties of all persons
and corporations within its jurisdiction, and therefore to provide for the public convenience and the public good. This
power in the States is entirely distinct from any power granted
to the General Government, although when exercised it may
sometimes reach subjects over which national legislation can
be constitutionally extended. When Congress acts with ref-

OCTOBER TERMi,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

erence to a matter confided to it by the Constitution, then its
statutes displace all conflicting local regulations touching that
matter, although such regulations may have been established
in pursuance of a power not surrendered by the States to the
General Government. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 210.;
Sinnot v. Davenport, 22 How. 227, 243; il'issouri,Kansas &
Texas Railway v. fHaber, 169 U. S. 613, 626.
It is not contended that the statute in question is repugnant
to the Constitution of the United States when applied to railroad trains carrying passengers between points within the
State of Ohio. But the contention is that to require railroad
companies, even those organized under the laws of Ohio, to
stop their trains or any of them carrying interstate passengers at a particular place or places in the State for a reasonable time, so directly affects commerce among the States as
to bring the statute, whether Congress has acted or not on
the same subject, into conflict with the grant in the Constitution of power to regulate such commerce. That such a regulation may be in itself reasonable and may promote the public
convenience or subserve the general welfare is, according to
the argument made before us, of no consequence whatever;
for, it is said, a state regulation which to any extent or for
a limited time only interrupts the absolute, continuous freedom of interstate commerce is forbidden by the Constitution,
although Congress has not legislated upon the particular subject covered by the state enactment. If these broad propositions are approved, it will be difficult to sustain the numerous
judgments of this court upholding local regulations which in
some degree or only incidentally affected commerce among
the States, but which were adjudged not to be in themselves
regulations of interstate commerce, but within the police
powers of the States and to be respected so long as Congress
did not itself cover the subject by legislation. Cooley v. Philadelphia, 12 How. 299, 320; Sherlock v. Alling, 93 U. S. 99, 104;
.Morgan.v. -ouisiana, 118 U. S. 455, 463; Smith v. Alabama,
124 U. S. 465; .Nashville,Chattanooga&c. Railway v. Alabama,
128 U.S. 96,100; Bennington v. Georgia,above cited; _Missouri,
Kansas and Texas Railway v. 1taber, above cited; and N. Y.,

LAKE SHORE & MICH. SOUTH. RAILWAY v. OHIO. 299
Opinion of the Court.

N. H. &fllariford Railroadv. New York, 165 U. S. 628, 631,
632, were all cases involving state regulations more or. less
affecting interstate or foreign commerce, but which were sustained upon the ground* that they were not directed against
nor were direct burdens upon interstate or foreign commerce;
and having been enacted only to protect the public safety, the
public health or the public morals, and having a real, substantial relation to the public ends intended to be accomplished
thereby, were not to be deemed absolutely forbidden because
of the mere grant of power to Congress to regulate interstate
and foreign commerce, but to be regarded as only ificidentally
affecting such commerce and valid until superseded by legislation of Congress on the same subject.
In the case last cited -N.
-Y., N. H. & Hartford Railroad
v. New York -the question was as to the validity, when applied to interstate railroad trains, of a statute of New York
forbidding the heating of passenger cars in a particular mode.
This court said: "According to numerous decisions of this
court sustaining the validity of state regulations enacted
under the police powers of the State, and which incidentally
affected commerce among the States and with foreign nations,
it was clearly competent for the State of New York, in the
absence of national legislation covering the subject, to forbid
under penalties the heating of passengers cars in that State by
stoves or furnaces kept inside the cars or suspended therefrom,
although such cars may be employed in interstate commerce.
While the laws of the States must yield to acts of Congress
passed in execution of the powers conferred upon it by the
Constitution, Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 211, the mere
grant to Congress of the power to regulate commerce with
foreign nations and among the States did not, of itself and
without legislation by Congress, impair the authority of the
States to establish such reasonable regulations as *ere appropriate for the protection of the health, the lives and the safety
of their people. The statute in question had for its object to
protect all persons travelling in the State of New York on
passenger cars moved by the agency of steam against the
perils attending a particular mode of heating such cars.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

. . .The

statute in question is not directed against inter-

state. commerce. Nor is it within the necessary meaning of
the Constitution a regulation of commerce, although it controls, in some degree, the conduct of those engaged in such
commerce. So far as it may affect interstate commerce, it is
to be regarded as legislation in aid of commerce and enacted
under the power remaining with the State to regulate the relative rights and duties of all persons and corporations within
its limits. Until displaced by such national legislation as Congress may rightfully establish under its power to regulate
commerce with foreign nations and among the several States,
the validity of the statute, so far as the commerce clause of
the Constitution of the United States is concerned, cannot be
questioned."
Consistently with these doctrines it cannot be adjudged
that the Ohio statute is unconstitutional. The power of the
State by appropriate legislation to provide for the public convenience stands upon the same ground precisely as its power
by appropriate legislation to protect the public health, the
public morals or the public safety. Whether legislation of
either kind is inconsistent with any power granted to the
General Government is to be determined by the same rules.
In what has been said we have assumed that the statute is
not in itself unreasonable; that is, it has appropriate relation
to the public convenience, does not go beyond the necessities
of the case, and is not directed against interstate commerce.
In Railroad Co. v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465, 473, reference was
made to some decisions of state courts in relation to statutes
prohibiting the introduction into a State of cattle having infectious diseases, and in which it was contended that it was
for the legislature and not for the courts to determine whether
such legislation went beyond the danger to be apprehended
and was therefore something more than the exertion of the
police power. This court said that it could not concur in
that view; that as the police power of a State cannot obstruct either foreign or interstate commerce "beyond the
necessity for its exercise," it was the duty of the courts to
guard vigilantly against "needless intrusion" upon the field

LAKE SHORE & MICH. SOUTH. RAILWAY v. OHIO. 301
Opinion of the Court.

committed by the Constitution to Congress. As the cases
above cited show, and as appears from other cases, the reasonableness or unreasonableness of a state enactment is always
an element in the general inquiry by the court whether such
legislation encroaches upon national authority, or is to be
deemed a legitimate exertion of the power of the State to
protect the public interests or promote the public convenience.
In our judgment the assumption that the statute of Ohio
was not directed against interstate commerce but is a reasonable provision for the public convenience, is not unwarranted.
The requirement that a railroad company whose road is operated within the State shall cause three each way of its regular trains carrying passengers, if so many are run daily,
Sundays excepted, to stop at any station, city or village of
three thousand inhabitants for a time sufficient to receive and
let off passengers, so far from being unreasonable, will greatly
subserve the public convenience. The statute does not stand
in the way of the railroad company running as many trains
as it may choose between Chicago and Buffalo without stop.ping at intermediate points, or only at very large cities on the
route, if in the contingency named in the statute the required
number of trains stop at each place containing three thousand
inhabitants long enough to receive and let off passengers. It
seems from the evidence that the average time required to
stop a train and receive and let off passengers is only three
minutes. Certainly, the State of Ohio did not endow the
plaintiff in error with the rights of a corporation for the purpose simply of subserving the convenience of passengers travelling through the State between points outside of its territory.
"The question is no longer an open one," this court said in
Cherokee NlTation v. 8outhern Kansas -Railway,135 U. S.641,
657, "as to whether a railroad is a public highway, established
primarily for the convenience of the people, and to subserve
public ends, and, therefore, subject to governmental control
and regulation. It is because it is a public highway, and
subject to such control, that the corporation by which it is
constructed, and by which it is to be maintained, may be
permitted, under legislative sanction, to appropriate property

OCTOBER TERIM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

for the purpose of a right of way, upon making just compensation to the owner, in the mode prescribed by law." In the
construction and maintenance of such a highway under public sanction the corporation really performs a function of the
State. Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466, 544. The plaintiff in
error accepted its charter subject necessarily to the condition
that it would conform to such reasonable regulations as the
State might from time to time establish that were not in.violation of the supreme law of the land. In the absence of legislation by Congress, it would be going very far to hold that

such an enactment as the one before us was in itself a regulation of interstate commerce. It was for the State to take
into consideration all the circumstances affecting passenger
travel within its limits, and as far as practicable make such
regulations as were just to all who might pass over the road
in question. It was entitled of course to provide for the convenience of persons desiring to travel from one point to another in the State on domestic trains. But it was not bound
to ignore the convenience of those who desired to travel from
places in the State to places beyond its limits, or the conven-"
ience of those outside of the State who wished to come into
it. Its statute is in aid of interstate commerce of that character. It was not compelled to look only to the convenience of
those who desired to pass through the State without stopping.
Any other view of the relations between the State and the
corporation created by it would mean that the directors of
the corporation could manage its affairs solely with reference
to the interests of stockholders and without taking into consideration the interests of the general public. It would mean
not only that such directors were the exclusive judges of the
manner in which the corporation should discharge the duties
imposed upon it in the interest of the public, but that the cor-

poration could so regulate the running of its interstate trains
as to build up cities and towns at the ends of its line or at
favored points, and by that means destroy or retard the
growth and prosperity of those at intervening points. It
would mean also that beyond the power of the State to prevent it the defendant railway company could run all its trains

LAIE SHORE & MICH. SOUTH. RAILWAY v. 0HI0. 303
Opinion of the Court.

through the State without stopping at any city within its
limits however numerous its population, and could prevent
the people along its road within the State who desired to go
beyond its limits from using its interstate trains at all, or only
at such points as the company chose to designate. A principle that in its application admits of such results cannot be
sanctioned.
We perceive in the legislation of Ohio no basis for the contention that the State has invaded the domain of national
authority or impaired any right secured by the National Constitution. In the recent case of Jones v. Brim, 165 U. S. 180,
182, it was adjudged that, embraced within the police powers
of a State was the establishment, maintenance and control of
public highways, and that under such powers reasonable regulations incident to the right to establish and maintain such
highways could be established by the State. And the State
of Ohio by the statute in question has done nothing more
than to so regulate the use of a public highway established
and maintained under its authority as will reasonably promote
the public convenience. It has not unreasonably obstructed
the freedom of commerce among the States. Its regulations
apply equally to domestic and interstate railroads. Its statute
is not directed against interstate commerce, but only incidentally affects it. It has only forbidden one of its own corporations from discriminating unjustly against a large part of the
public, for whose convenience that corporation was created and
invested with authority to maintain a public highway within
the limits of the State.
It has been suggested that the conclusion reached by us is
not in accord with Hall v. De Cuir, 95 U. S. 485, 488; I alash,
St. Louis & Pacific Railway v. Illinois, 118 U. S. 556, and
Illinois Central Railroad Company v. Illinois,163 U. S. 142,
153, 154, in each of which cases certain state enactments were
adjudged to be inconsistent with the grant of power to Congress to regulate commerce among the States.
In Hall v. De Cuir a statute of Louisiana relating to carriers
of passengers within that State, and which prohibited any discrimination against passengers on account of race or color, was

OCTOBER TERAM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

held - looking at its necessary operation -to be a regulation
of and a direct burden on commerce among the States, and
therefore unconstitutional. The defendant, who was sued for
damages on account of an alleged violation of that statute, was
the master and owner of a steamboat enrolled and licensed
under the laws of the United States for the coasting trade,
and plying as a regular packet for the transportation of freight
and passengers between New Orleans, Louisiana, and Vicksburg, Mississippi, touching at the intermediate landings both
within and without Louisiana as occasion required. He insisted that it was void as to him because it directly regulated
or burdened interstate business. The court distinctly recognized the principle upon which we proceed in the present case,
that state legislation relating to commerce is not to be deemed
a regulation of interstate commerce simply because it may to
some extent or under some circumstances affect such commerce.
But, speaking by Chief Justice Waite, it said: "We think it
may be safely said that state legislation which seeks to impose
a direct burden upon interstate commerce, or to interfere
directly with its freedom, does encroach upon the exclusive
power of Congress. The statute now under consideration, in
our opinion, occupies that position. It does not act upon the
business through the local instruments to be employed after
coming within the State, but directly upon the business as it
comes into the State from without, or goes out from within.
While it purports only to control the carrier when engaged
within the State, it must necessarily influence his conduct to
some extent in the management of his business throughout
his entire voyage. His disposition of passengers taken up and
put down within the State, or taken up within to be carried
without, cannot but affect in a greater or less degree those
taken up without and brought within, and sometimes those
taken up and put down without. A passenger in the cabin
set apart for the use of whites without the State must, when
the boat comes within, share the accommodations of that cabin
with such colored persons as may come on board afterwards,
if the law is enforced. It was to meet just such a case that
the commercial clause in the Constitution was adopted. The

LAKE SHORE & I-AICH. SOUTH. RAILWAY v. OHIO. 305
Opinion of the Court.

river Mississippi passes through or along the borders of ten
different States, and its tributaries reach many more.
No carrier of passengers can conduct his business with satisfaction to himself, or comfort to those employing him, if on
one side of a state line his passengers, both white and colored,
must be permitted to occupy the same cabin, and on the other
be kept separate. Uniformity in the regulations by which he
is to be governed from 6 ne end to the other of his route is a
necessity in his business, and to secure it Congress, which is
untrammelled by state lines, has been invested with the exclusive legislative power of determining what such regulations
shall be. If this statute can be enforced against those engaged in interstate commerce, it may be as well against those
engaged in foreign; and the master of a ship" clearing from
New Orleans for Liverpool, having passengers on board, would
be compelled to carry all, white and colored, in the same cabin
duiing his passage down the river, or be subject to an action
for damages, 'exemplary as well as actual,' by any one who
felt himself aggrieved because he had been excluded on account
of his color." The import of that decision is that, in the absence of legislation by Congress, a state enactment may so
directly and materially burden interstate commerce as to be
in itself a regulation of such commerce. We cannot perceive
that there is any conflict between the decision in that case and
that now made. The Louisiana statute, as interpreted by the
court, embraced every passenger carrier coming into the State.
The Ohio statute does not interfere at all with the management of the defendant's trains outside of the State, nor does
it apply to all its trains coming into the State. It relates only
to the stopping of a given number of' its trains within the
State at certain points, and then only long enough to receive
and let off passengers. It so manifestly subserves the public
convenience, and is in itself so just and reasonable, as wholly
to preclude the idea that it was, as the Louisiana statute was
declared to be, a direct burden upon interstate commerce, or a
direct interference with its freedom.
The judgment in Tabash, &. Louis & Pacific Railway v.
Illinois is entirely consistent with the views herein expressed.
VOL. OLXXfI-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

A statute of Illinois was construed by the Supreme Court
of that State as prescribing rates not simply for railroad
transportation beginning and ending within Illinois, but for
transportation between points in Illinois and points in other
States under contracts for continuous service covering the
entire route through several States. Referring to the principle contained in the statute, this court held that if restricted
to transportation beginning and ending within the limits of
the State it might be very just and equitable, but that it
could not be applied to transportation through an entire
series of States without imposing a direct burden upon interstate commerce forbidden by the Constitution. In the case
before us there is no attempt upon the part of Ohio to regulate the movement of the defendant company's interstate
trains throughout the whole route traversed by them. It
applies only to the movement of trains while within the
State, and to the extent simply of requiring a given number,
if so many are daily run, to stop at certain places long enough
to receive and let off passengers.
Nor is Illinois Central ]ailroad v. Illinois inconsistent
with the views we have expressed. In that case a statute of
Illinois was held, in certain particulars, to be unconstitutional,
(although the legislation of Congress did not cover the subject,) as directly and unnecessarily burdening interstate commerce. The court said: "The effect of the statute of Illinois,
as construed and applied by the Supreme Court of the State,
is to require a fast mail train, carrying interstate passengers and
the United States mail, from Chicago in the State of Illinois
to places south of the Ohio River, over an interstate highway
established by authority of Congress, to delay the transportation of such passengers and mails, by turning aside from the
direct interstate route, and running to a station three miles
and a half away from a point on that route, and back again
to the same point, and thus travelling seven miles which form
no part of its course, before proceeding on its way; and to
do this for the purpose of discharging and receiving passengers at that station, for the interstate travel to and from
which, it is admitted in this case, the railway company fur-

LAKE SHORE & MICH.SOUTH. RAILWAY v. OHIO. 307
Opinion of the Court.

nishes other and ample accommodation. This court is unanimously oE opinion that this requirement is an unconstitutional
hindrance and obstruction of interstate commerce, and of the
passage of the mails of the United States." Again: "It may
well be, as held by the courts of Illinois, that the arrangement made by the company with the Post Office Department
of the United States cannot have the effect of abrogating
a reasonable police regulation of the State. But a statute
of the State, which unnecessarily interferes with the speedy
and uninterrupted carriage of the mails of the United States,
cannot be considered as a reasonable police regulation." The
statute before us does not require the defendant company
to turn any of its train from their direct interstate route.
Besides, it is clear that the particular question now presented
was not involved in Illinois Central Rail'oadv. Illinois; for
it is stated in the court's opinion that "the question whether
a statute which merely required interstate railroad trains,
without going out of their course, to stop at county seats,
would be within the constitutional power of the State, is not
presented, and cannot be decided, upon this record." The
above extracts show the full scope of that decision. Any
doubt upon the point is removed by the reference made to
that case in Gladson v. Ainnesota, 166 U. S.427, 431.
It has been suggested also that the statute of Ohio is inconsistent with section 5258 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States authorizing every railroad company in the United
States operated by steam, its successors and assigns, "to carry
upon and over its road, boats, bridges and ferries all passengers, troops, government supplies, mails, freight and
property on their way from any State to another State, and
to receive compensation therefor, and to connect with roads
of other States so as to form continuous lines for the transportation of the same to the place of destination." In .issouri, Eansas & Texas Railway v. Haber, 169 U. S. 613, 638,
above cited, it was held that the authority given by that
statute to railroad companies to carry "freight and property"
over their respective roads from one State to another State,
did not authorize a railroad company to carry into a State

OCTOBER TE RI,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

cattle known, or which by due diligence might be known, to
be in such condition as to impart or communicate disease
to the domestic cattle of such State; and that a statute of
Kansas prescribing as a rule of civil conduct that a person
or corporation should not bring into that State cattle known,
or which by proper diligence could be known, to be capable of
communicating disease to domestic cattle, could not be regarded
as beyond the necessities of the case, nor as interfering with
any right intended to be given or recognized by section 5258
of the 'Revised Statutes. And we adjudge that the above
statutory provision was not intended to interfere with the
authority of a State to enact such regulations, with respect
at least to a railroad corporation of its own creation, as
were not directed against interstate commerce, but which
only incidentally or remotely affected such commerce, and
were not in themselves regulations of interstate commerce,

but were designed reasonably to subserve the convenience of
the public.
Imaginary cases are put for the purpose of showing what
might be done by the State that would seriously interfere
with or discriminate against interstate commerce, if the statute in question be upheld as consistent with the Constitution
of the United States. Without stopping to consider whether
the illustrations referred to are apposite to the present inquiry,
it is sufficient to say that it is alxvays easy to suggest extreme
cases for the application of any principle embodied in a judicial opinion. Our present judgment has reference only to the
case before us, and when other cases arise in which local statutes are alleged not to be legitimate exertions of the police
powers of the State, but to infringe upon national authority,
it can then be determined whether they are to be controlled
by the decision now rendered. It would be impracticable, as
well as unwise, to attempt to lay down any rule that would
govern every conceivable case that might be suggested by ingenious minds.
For the reasons stated the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Ohio is
-Affig-med.

LAKE SHORE & MICH. SOUTH. RAILWAY v. OHIO. 309
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Brewer, Peekham, JJ.

iR. JUSTICE SHIR&S, with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE
BREWER and MR. JUSTICE PECKHAm, dissenting.

The Constitution of the United States, in its eighth section,
confers upon Congress the power to regulate commerce with
foreign nations, and among the several States, and with the
Indian tribes, and to establish post offices and post roads.
In pursuance of this power, Congress, on June 15, 1866,
enacted that "every railroad company in the United States,
whose road is operated by steam, its successors and assigns,
is hereby authorized to carry upon and over its road, boats,
bridges and ferries, all passengers, troops, government supplies, mails, freight and property on their way from any
State to another State, and to receive compensation therefor,
and to connect with roads of other States so as to form continuous lines for the transportation of the same to the place
of destination." Rev. Stat. ยง 5258.
By the act of February 4, 1887, c. 104, entitled "An act to
regulate commerce," 24 Stat. 379, Congress created the Interstate Commerce Commission, and enacted that the provisions
of that act should "apply to any common carrier or carriers
engaged in the transportation of passengers or property
wholly by railroad, or partly by railroad and partly by water
when both are used, under a common control, management
or arrangement, for a continuous carriage or shipment from
one State or Territory of the United States, or the District
of Columbia, to any other State or Territory of the United
States . . . ;" and that it should be unlawful for any
common carrier, subject to the provisions of the act, to enter
into any combination, contract or agreement, expressed or
implied, to prevent, by change of*time schedules, carriage in
different cars, or by other means or devices, the carriage
of freight from being continuous from the place of shipment
to the place of destination.
IIt was said by this court, in California v. Central Pacific
Railroad,127 U. S. 1, 39; that "It cannot at the present day
be doubted that Congress, under the power to regulate commerce among the several States, as well as to provide for

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Brewer, Peckham, JJ.

postal accommodations and military exigencies, had authority
to pass these laws. The power to construct, or to authorize
individuals or corporations to construct, national highways
and bridges from State to State, is essential to the complete
Without
control and regulation of interstate commerce.
authority in Congress to establish and maintain such highways and bridges, it would be without authority to regulate
one of the most important adjuncts of commerce. This power
in former times was exerted to a very limited extent -the
Cumberland or National road being the most notable instance.
Its exertion was but little called for, as commerce was then
mostly conducted by water, and many of our statesmen
entertained doubts as to the existence of the power to establish ways of communication by land. But since, in consequence of the expansion of the country, the multiplication
of its products, and the invention of railroads and locomotion by steam, land transportation has so vastly increased, a
sounder consideration of the subject has prevailed, and led
to the conclusion that Congress has plenary power over the
whole subject. Of course, the authority of Congress over the
Territories of the United States, and its power to grant franchises exercisable therein, are, and ever have been, undoubted.
But the wider power was very freely exercised, and much to
the general satisfaction, in the creation of the vast system of
railroads connecting the East with the Pacific, traversing States
as well as Territories, and employing the agency of state as
well as Federal corporations."
In the case of cincinnati, "VewOrleans and Texas Pacific
Railway v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 162 U. S. 184,
the validity of the act of February 4, 1887, was sustained, and
its provisions were held applicable even to a railroad company
whose entire road was within the limits of the State of its
creation, when, by agreeing to receive goods by virtue of foreign through bills of lading and to participate inthrough rates
and charges, it became part of a continuous line of transportation.
By an act approved February 23, 1869, the State of Louisiana forbade common carriers of passengers to, make dis-

LAKE SHORE & MICH. SOUTH. RAILWAY v. OHIO. 311
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Brewer, Peckham, JJ.

crimination on account of race or color. A person of color
took passage upon a steamboat plying between New Orleans
and Vicksburg, in the State of Mississippi, and was carried
from New Orleans to her place of destination within Louisiana, and being refused accommodations, on account of
her color, in the cabin specially set apart for white persons,
brought an action in the district court for the parish of New
Orleans, under the provisions of the act above referred to.
By way of defence it was insisted that the statute was void,
in respect to the matter complained of, because, as to the business of the steamboat, it was an attempt to regulate commerce
between the States, and therefore in conflict with the Constitution of the United States. The state court held that the
statute was valid, and the case was brought to this court,
where the judgment of the state court was reversed. Rall v.
De Cuir, 95 U. S. 485, 488. The reasoning of the court is so
closely applicable to the case before us that we quote a considerable part of the opinion :
"We think it may safely be said that state legislation which
seeks to impose a direct burden upon interstate commerce, or
to interfere directly with its freedom, does encroach upon the
exclusive power of Congress. The statute now under consideration, in our opinion, occupies that position. It does not
act upon the business through the local instruments to be employed after coming within the State, but directly upon the
business as it comes into the State from without or goes out
from within. While it purports only to control the carrier
when engaged within the State, it must necessarily influence
his conduct to some extent in the management of his business
throughout his entire voyage. His disposition of passengers
taken up and put down within the State, or taken up within
to be carried without, cannot but affect in a greater or less
degree those taken up without and brought within, and sometimes those taken up and put down without. A passenger in
the cabin set apart for the use of whites without the State
must, when the boat comes within, share the accommodations of that cabin with such colored persons as may come
on board afterwards, if the law is enforced.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Brewer, Peckham, JJ.

"It was to meet just such a case that the commercial clause
in the Constitution was adopted. The river Mississippi passes
through or along the borders of ten different 'States, and
its tributaries reach many more. The commerce upon these
waters is immense, and its regulation clearly a matter of
national concern. If each State was at liberty to regulate
the conduct of carriers while within its jurisdiction, the confusion likely to follow could not but be productive of great
inconvenience and unnecessary hardships. Each State could
provide for its own passengers and regulate the transportation
of its own freight regardless of the interests of others. Nay,
more, it could prescribe rules by which the carrier must be
governed within the State in respect to passengers and property brought from without. On one side of the river or its
tribitaries he might be required to observe one set of rules,
and on the other another. Commerce cannot flourish in the
midst of such embarrassments. No carrier of passengers can
conduct his business with satisfaction to himself, or comfort to
those employing him, if on one side of a state line his passengers, both white and colored, must be permitted to occupy the
Uniformsame cabin, and on the other be kept separate.
ity in the regulations by which he is to be governed from
one end to the other of his route is a necessity in his business,
and to secure it Congress, which is untrammelled by state lines,
has been invested with the exclusive legislative power of determining what such regulations shall be. If this statute can
be enforced against those engaged in interstate commerce, it
may as well be against those engaged in foreign; and the master of a ship clearing from New Orleans for Liverpool, having
passengers on board, would be compelled to carry all, white
and colored, in the same cabin during his passage down the
river, or be subject to an action for damages, exemplary as
well as actual, by any one who felt himself aggrieved because
he had been excluded on account of his color.
"This power of regulation may be exercised without legislation as well as with it. By refraining from action, Congress,
in effect, adopts as its own regulations those which the common law, or the civil law where that prevails, has provided

LAKE SHORE & MICH. SOUTH. RAILWAY v. OHIO. 313
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Brewer, Peckham, JJ.

for the government of each business, and those which the
States, in the regulation of their domestic concerns, have established affecting commerce, but not regulating it within the
meaning of the Constitution. In fact, congressional legislation is only necessary to cure defects in existing laws, as they
are discovered, and to adapt such laws to new developments of
trade. As was said by Mr. Justice Field, speaking for the court
in Welton v. Xissouri, 91 U. S. 275, 282: 'Inaction [by Congress] is equivalent to a declaration that interstate commerce
shall remain free and untrammelled.' Applying that principle to the circumstances of this case, congressional inaction
left Benson [the captain of the steamboat] at liberty to adopt
such reasonable rules and regulations for the disposition of
passengers upon his boat, while pursuing her voyage within
Louisiana or without, as seemed to him most for the interest
of all concerned. The statute under which this suit is brought,
as construed by the state court, seeks to take away from him
that power so long as he is within Louisiana; and while recognizing to the fullest extent the principle which sustains a
statute, unless its unconstitutionality is clearly established, we
think this statute, to the extent that it requires those engaged
in the transportation of passengers among the States to carry
colored passengers in Louisiana in the same cabin with whites,
is unconstitutional and void. If the public good requires such
legislation, it must come from Congress and not from the
States."
I am not able to think that this decision is satisfactorily
disposed of, in the principal opinion, by citing it, and then
dismissing it with the observation that it is not perceived that
there is any conflict between it and that now made.
The State of Illinois enacted that if any railroad corporation shall charge, collect or receive for the transportation of
any passenger or freight of any description upon its railroad,
for any distance within the State, the same or a greater
amount of toll or compensation than is at the same time
charged, collected or received for the transportation in the
same direction of any passenger or like quantity of freight, of
the same class over a greater distance of the same road, all

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Brewer, Peckham, JJ.

such discriminating rates, charges, collections or receipts,
whether made directly or by the means of rebate, drawback
or other shift or evasion, shall be deemed and taken against
any such railroad company as prima facie evidence of unjust
discrimination prohibited by the provisions of the act. The
act further provided a penalty of not over $5000, and also that
the party aggrieved should have a right to recover three times
the amount of damages sustained, with costs and attorneys'
fees. Rev. Stat. Ill. c. 114, ยง 126.
An action to recover penalties under this statute was brought
by Illinois against the Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Railway
Company, an Illinois corporation, in which the allegations
were that the railroad company had charged Elder & McKinney for transporting goods from Peoria, in the State of
Illinois, to New York City, at the rate of fifteen cents per
hundred pounds for a carload; that on the satne day the railroad company had charged one Bailey, for transporting similar goods from Gilman to New York City, at the rate of
twenty-five cents per hundred pounds per carload; that the
carload for Elder & icKiuinney was carried eighty-six miles
farther in the State of Illinois than the other carload of the
same weight; that this freight being of the same class in both
instances, and over the same road, except as to the difference
in the distance, made a discrimination forbidden by the statute,
whether the charge was regarded for the whole distance from
the terminal point in Illinois to New York City, or the proportionate charge for the haul within the State of Illinois.
Judgment went against the company in the courts of the State
of Illinois, and the case was brought to this court.
It was here strenuously contended that, in the absence of
congressional legislation, a state legislature has the power to
regulate the charges made by the railroads of the State for
transporting goods and passengers to and from places within
the State, when such goods and passengers are brought from,
or carried to, points without the State, and are, therefore, in
the course of transportation from any State, or to another
State. And of that view were several Justices of this court,
who, in the opinion filed on their behalf, cited the very cases

LAKE SHORE & MICH. SOUTH. RAILWAY v. OHIO. 315
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Brewer, Peckham, JJ.

that are cited and relied on in the majority opinion in the
present case.
But the court did not so hold, Wabash, St. Louis & Pacific
Railway v. Illinois,118 U. S. 557, 572; and its reasoning is
so plainly applicable to the question now before us, it may well
be quoted at some length.
After having reviewed some of the previous cases, and having quoted those passages in the opinion of the court in Hall
v. .De Cuir, 95 U. S. 485, which have hereinbefore been quoted,
Mr. Justice Miller, giving the opinion of the court, proceeded
as follows:
"The applicability of this language to the case now under
consideration, of a continuous transportation of goods from
New York to Central Illinois, or from the latter to New York,
is obvious, and it is not easy to see how any distinction can be
made. Whatever may be the instrumentalities by which this
transportation from the one point to the other is effected, it is
but one voyage, as much so as that of the steamboat on the
Mississippi River. It is not the railroads themselves that are
regulated by this act of the Illinois legislature so much as the
charge for transportation, and, in the language just cited, if
each one of the States through whose territories these goods
are transported can fix its own rules for prices, for modes of
transit, for terms and modes of delivery, and all the other incidents of transportation to which the word ' regulation' can be
applied, it is readily seen that the embarrassments upon interstate transportation, as an element of interstate commerce,
might be too oppressive to be submitted to. 'It was,' in the
language of the court cited above, 'to meet just such a case
that the commerce clause of the Constitution was adopted.'
"It cannot be too strongly insisted upon that the right of
continuous transportation from one end of the country to the
other is essential in modern times to that freedom of commerce from the restraints which the States might choose to
impose upon it, that the commerce clause was intended to
secure. This clause, giving to Congress the power to regulate
commerce among the States and with foreign nations, as this
court has said before, was among the most important of the

OCTOBER TEIRIM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Brewer, Peckham, JJ.

subjects which prompted the formation of the Constitution.
Cook v. Pennsylvania, 97 U. S. 566, 574; Brown v. laryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 446. And it would be a very feeble and
almost useless provision, but poorly adapted to secure the
entire freedom of commerce among the States which was
deemed essential to a more perfect union by the framers of
the Constitution, if, at every stage of the transportation of
goods and chattels through the country, the State within
whose limits a part of this transportation must be done could
impose regulations concerning the price, compensation or taxation, or any other restrictive regulation interfering with and
seriously embarrassing this commerce.
"The argument on this subject can never be better stated
than it is by Chief Justice Marshall in Gibbons v. Ogden, 9
Wheat. 1, 195-6. He there demonstrates that commerce
among the States, like commerce with foreign nations, is
necessarily a commerce which crosses state lines, and extends
into the States, and the power of Congress to regulate it
exists wherever that commerce is found. Speaking of navigation as an element of commerce, which it is, only, as a
means of transportation, now largely superseded by railroads,
he says: ' The power of Congress, then, comprehends navigation within the limits of every State in the Union, so far as
that navigation may be, in any manner, "connected with
commerce with foreign nations, or among the several States,
or with the Indian tribes." It may, of consequence, pass the
jurisdictional line of New York and act upon the very waters,
[the Hudson River,] to which the prohibition now under consideration applies.' So the same power may pass the line of
the State of Illinois and act upon its restriction upon the
right of transportation extending over several States including that one.
"In the case of Telegraph Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S.460, 465,
the court held that 'a telegraph company occupies the same
relation to commerce as a carrier of messages that a railroad
company does as a carrier of goods,' and that both companies
are instruments of commerce, and their business is commerce
itself. . . . In the case of ITelton v. 2fissouri, 91 U. S.

LAKE SHORE & MICH. SOUTH. RAILWAY v. OHIO. 317
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Brewer, Peckham, JJ.

275, 280, it was said: IIt will not be denied that that portion
of commerce with foreign nations and between the States
-which consists in the transportation and exchange of commodities is of national importance, and admits and requires
uniformity of regulation. The very object of investing this
power in the General Government was to insure this uniformity against discriminating state legislation.' And in County
of Jiobile v. Himball, 102 U. S. 671, 702, the same idea is very
clearly stated in the following language: 'Commerce with
foreign countries and among the States, strictly considered,
consists in intercourse and traffic, including in these terms
navigation and the transportation and transit of persons and
property, as well as the purchase, sale and exchange of commodities. For the regulation of commerce, as thus defined,
there can be only one system of rules, applicable alike to the
whole country; and the authority which can act for the whole
country can alone adopt such a system. Action upon it by
separate States is not, therefore, permissible. Language affirming the exclusiveness of the grant of power over commerce as
thus defined may not be inaccurate, when it would be so if
applied to legislation upon subjects which are merely auxiliary
to commerce.'
We must, therefore, hold that it is not,
and never has been, the deliberate opinion of a majority of this
court, that the statute of a State which attempts to regulate
the fares and charges by railroad companies within its limits,
for a transportation which constitutes a part of commerce
among the States, is a valid law.
"Let us see precisely what is the degree of interference with
the transportation of property or persons from one State to
another which this statute proposes. A citizen of New York
has goods which he desires to have transported by the railroad
companies from that city to the interior of the State of Illinois.
A continuous line of rail over which a car loaded with these
goods can be carried, and is carried habitually, connects the
place of shipment with the place of delivery. He undertakes
to make a contract with a person engaged in the carrying business at the end of this route from whence the goods are to
start, and he is told by the carrier, ' I am free to make a fair

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Brewer, Peckham, JJ.

and reasonable contract for this carriage to the line of the
State of Illinois, but when the car which carries these goods
is to cross the line of that State, pursuing at the same this
continuous track, I am met by a law of Illinois which forbids
me to make a free contract concerning this transportation
within that State, and subjects me to certain rules by which
I am to be governed as to the charges which the same railroad company in Illinois may make, or has made, with reference to other persons and other places of delivery.' So that
while that carrier might be willing to carry these goods from
the city of New York to the city of Peoria at the rate of fifteen
cents per hundred pounds, he is not permitted to do so because
the Illinois railroad company has already charged at the rate
of twenty-five cents per hundred pounds for carriage to Gilman,
in Illinois, which is eighty-six miles shorter than the distance
to Peoria.
"So also, in the present case, the owner of corn, the principal product of the country, desiring to transport it from Peoria,
in Illinois, to New York, finds a railroad company willing to
do this at the rate of fifteen cents per hundred pounds for a
carload, but he is compelled to pay at the rate of twenty-five
cents per hundred pounds, because the railroad company has
received from a person residing at Gilman twenty-five cents
per hundred pounds for the transportation of a carload of the
same class of freight over the same line of road from Gilman
to New York. This is the result of the statute of Illinois, in
its endeavor to prevent unjust discrimination, as construed by
the Supreme Court of that State. The effect of it is, that
whatever may be the rate of transportation per mile charged
by the railroad company from Gilman to Sheldon, a distance
of twenty-three miles, in which the loading and unloading of
the freight is the largest expense incurred by the railroad
company, the same rate per mile must be charged from Peoria
to the city of New York.
"The obvious injustice of such a rule as this, which railroad
companies are by heavy penalties compelled to conform to, in
regard to commerce among the States, when applied to transportation which includes Illinois in a long line of carriage

LAKE SHORE & MICH. SOUTH. RAILWAY v. OHIO. 319
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Brewer, Peckham, JJ.

through several States, shows the value of the constitutional
provision which confides the power of regulating interstate
commerce to the Congress of the United States, whose enlarged view of the interests of all the States, and of the railroads concerned, better fits it to establish just and equitable
rates.
"Of the justice or propriety of -the principle which lies at
the foundation of the Illinois statute, it is not the province of
this court to speak. As restricted to a transportation which
begins and ends within the limits of the State, it may be very
just and equitable, and it certainly is the province of the state
legislature to determine that question. But when it is attempted to apply to transportation through an entire series of
States a principle of this kind, and each one of the States shall
attempt to establish its own rates of transportation, its own
methods to prevent discrimination in rates, or to permit it, the
deleterious influence upon the freedom of commerce among
the States and upon the transit of goods through those States
cannot be overestimated. That this species of regulation is
one which must be, if established at all, of a general and national character, and cannot be safely and wisely remitted to
local rules and local regulations, we think is clear from what
has already been said. And if it be a regulation of commerce,
as we think we have demonstrated it is, and as the Illinois
court concedes it to be, it must be of that national character,
and the regulation can only appropriately exist by general
rules and principles which demand that it should be done by
the Congress of the United States under the commerce clause
of the Constitution."
This case, so recent and so elaborately considered, has not
received adequate attention in the opinion of the court in the
present case.
The legislature of Illinois, by the statute of February 10,
1851, incorporated the Illinois Central Railroad Company, and
empowered it to construct and maintain a railroad, with one
or more tracks, from the southern terminus of the Illinois and
Michigan Canal to a point at the city of Cairo, with the same
to the city of Chicago on Lake Michigan, and also a branch

OCTOBER TERMV,

1898.

Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Brewer, Peckham, JJ.

via the city
opposite the
Chicago, St.
consolidated

of Galena to a point on the Mississippi River
town of Dubuque, in the State of Iowa. The
Louis and New Orleans Railroad Company, a
company formed under the legislatures of the

States of Louisiana, Mississippi, Tennessee and Kentucky,
whose line extended from New Orleans to the Ohio River,
built a railroad bridge across the Ohio River to low-water

mark on the Illinois side, to which the jurisdiction of the
State of Kentucky extended. The north end of this bridge
was at a part of Cairo about two miles north of the station of
the Illinois Central Railroad Company in that city; and the
peculiar conformation of the land and water made it impracticable to put the bridge nearer the junction of the Ohio and
Mississippi rivers. By this bridge the road of the Illinois
Central Railroad Company was thereby connected with that

of the Chicago, St. Louis and New Orleans Railroad Company.
Thereafter the Illinois Central Railroad Company put on a
daily fast mail train, to run from Chicago to New Orleans,
carrying passengers as well as the United States mail, not going to or stopping at its station in Cairo, but local trains adequate to afford accommodations for passengers to or fromn Cairo
were run daily on that part of the railroad between the Bridge
Junction and Cairo. By a subsequent act of 1889 it was enacted by the legislature of Illinois that "every railroad corporation shall cause its passenger trains to stop upon its arrival
at each station, advertised by such corporation as a place for
receiving and discharging passengers upon and from such
trains, a sufficient length of time to receive and let off such passengers with safety: P'ovided, All regular passenger trains
shall stop a sufficient length of time, at the railroad station of
county, seats, to receive and let off passengers with safety."
In April, 1891, a petition was filed in the Circuit Court for
Alexander County, in the State of Illinois, by the county
attorney in behalf of the State, alleging that the Illinois Central Railroad Company ran its southbound fast mail train
through the city of Cairo, two miles north of its station in
that city, and over a bridge across the Ohio River, connecting
its road with other roads south of that river, without stopping

LAKE SHORE & 1MICH. SOUTH. RAILWAY v. OHIO. 321
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras; Brewer, Peckham, JJ.

at its station in Cairo, and praying for a writ of mandamus to
compel it to cause all its passenger trains, coming into Cairo, to
be brought down to that station, and there stopped a sufficient
length of time to receive and let off passengers with safety.
The railroad company contended that the statute did not
require its fast mail train to be run to and stopped at its station in Cairo, and that the statute was contrary to the Constitution of the United States, as interfering with interstate
commerce, and with the carrying of the United States mail.
The court granted the writ of mandamus, and the railroad
company appealed to the Supreme Court of the State, which
affirmed the judgment, and held that the statute of Illinois
concerning the stoppage of trains obliged the defendant to
cause its fast mail train to be taken into its station at Cairo,
and be stopped there long enough to receive and let off passengers with safety, and that the statute, so construed, was
not an unconstitutional interference with interstate commerce,
or with the carrying of the United States mails. The case
was brought to this court, where the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Illinois was reversed in a unanimous opinion delivered by Mr. Justice Gray.
Illinois Central lailroad v.
Illinois, 163 U. S. 142, 153. After reciting several statutes
of Illinois and of Congress, particularly the act of June 15,
1866, wherein Congress, for the declared purpose of facilitating commerce among the several States, and the postal and
military communications of the United States, authorized every
railroad company in the United States, whose road was operated by steam, to carry over its road, bridges and ferries, as
well passengers and freight, as government mails, troops and
supplies, from one State to another, and to connect, in any
State authorizing it to do so, with roads of other States, so
as to form a continuous line of transportation, the court proceeded to say:
"The effect of the statute of Illinois, as construed and applied by the Supreme Court of the State, is to require a fast
mail train, carrying interstate passengers and the United
States mails, from Chicago, in the State of Illinois, to places
south of the Ohio River, over an interstate highway established
VOL. CLXXM-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Brewer, Peckham, JJ.

by authority of Congress, to delay the transportation of such
passengers and mail, by turning aside from the direct interstate route, and running to a station three miles and a half
away from a point on that route, and back again to the same
point, and thus travelling seven miles which form no part of
its course, before proceeding on its way; and to do this for
the purpose of discharging and receiving passengers at that
station, for the interstate travel to and from which, as is admitted in this case, the railroad company furnishes other and
ample accommodation. This court is unanimously of opinion
that this requirement is an unconstitutional hindrance and
obstruction of interstate commerce, and of the passage of the
mails of the United States. Upon the state of facts presented
by this record, the duties of the Illinois Central Railroad Company were not confined to those which it owed to the State of
Illinois under the charter of the company and other laws of the
State; but included distinct duties imposed upon the corporation by the Constitution and laws of the United States.
"The State may doubtless compel the railroad company
to perform the duty imposed by its charter of carrying passengers and goods between its termini within the State. But
so long, at least, as that duty is adequately performed by the
company, the State cannot, under the guise of compelling its
performance, interfere with the performance of paramount
duties to which the company has been subjected by the Constitution and laws of the United States.
"The State may make reasonable regulations to secure the
safety of passengers, even on interstate trains, while within
its borders. But the State can do nothing which will directly
burden or impede the interstate traffic of the company, or
impair the usefulness of its facilities for such traffic."
Beyond the bare allegation that the case of Pllinois Central
Railroadv. Illinois is not inconsistent with the views expressed
in the present case, no attempt is made to compare or reconcile the principles involved in the two cases. It is, indeed,
said that the Ohio statute "does not require the defendant
company to turn any of its trains from their direct interstate
route;" and the remark of the court in the Illinois case is

LAKE SHORE & MICH. SOUTH. RAILWAY v. OHIO. 323
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Brewer, Peckham, JJ.

cited, in which it was said "the question whether a statute
which merely required interstate railroad trains, without going
out of their course, to stop at county seats, would be within the
constitutional power of the State, is not presented, and cannot
be decided, upon this record." Reference is also made to the
case of Gladson v. -Minnesota,166 U. S. 427, as removing any
doubt as to the scope of the decision in the Illinois case.
But an examination of that case will show that no question
was presented or decided as to the power of a State to compel
interstate railroad trains to stop at all county seats through
which they might pass. On the contrary, the court was careful to say, distinguishing it from the Illinois case: "But, in
the case at bar, the train in question ran wholly within the
State of Minnesota, and could have stopped at the county seat
of Pine County without deviating from its course;" and to
point out that the statute of Minnesota expressly provided
that " this act shall not apply to through railroadtrains entering this State from any other State, or to transcontinental
trains of any railroad.'"
On what then does the court's opinion rely to distinguish
the Illinois case from the present case? Merely that the
through train in the one case was obliged to go out of its
direct route some three or four miles, while in the other the
obligation is to stop at towns through which the trains pass.
But what was the reason why this court held that the Illinois
statute was void as an interference with interstate commerce?
Was not the delay thus caused the sole reason? And is there
any difference between a delay caused by having to go a few
miles out of a direct course in a single instance, and one caused
by having to stop at a number of unimportant towns? Probably the excursion to the Cairo station did not detain the
Illinois train more than half an hour; and it is admitted in
the present case that the number of villages in Ohio through
which the trains passed were thirteen, and that the average
time required to stop a train of cars and receive and leave off
passengers would be three minutes at each station, to say
nothing of the time expended in losing and in regaining headway. Besides the delays thus caused, there would be many

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Brewer, Peckham, JJ.

inconveniences to the railroad companies and to the travelling
public occasioned by interfering with regulations made for the
comfort and safety of through passengers.
Western Union, Telegraph Co. v. James, 162 U. S. 650, is
cited by the court as sustaining its present position. But that
was a case in which the legislation of the State was of a
nature that was in aid of the performance of the duty of the
company that would exist in the absence of any such statute,
and was in nowise obstructive of its duty as a telegraph company, and the decision of this court was expressly put upon
that ground. It was pointed out, in the opinion, that the
legislation in question could in no way affect the conduct of
the company with regard to the performance of its duties in
other States, and that such important particular distinguished
the case from Hall v. De Cuir, 95 U. S. 485, and from Western
Union Telegraph Co. v. Pendleton, 122 U. S. 347.
Richmond & Alleghany Railroad v. Patterson Tobacco Co.,
169 U. S. 311, is cited as adjudging that a statute of Virginia,
defining the obligations of carriers who accept for transportation anything directed to points of destination beyond the
termini of their own lines or routes, was not, in its application
to interstate business, a regulation of interstate commerce
within the meaning of the Constitution. But the holding in
that case simply was that the statute in question did not
attempt to substantially regulate or control interstate shipments, but merely established a rule of evidence, ordaining
the character of proof by which a carrier may show that,
although it received goods for transportation beyond its own
line, nevertheless by agreement its liability was limited to its
own line -that the lawful exercise by a State of its power to
determine the form in which contracts may be proven does
not amount to a regulation of interstate commerce. The
reasoning of the court went upon the assumption that if the
statute was not merely a rule of evidence, but an attempt to
regulate interstate commerce, it would have been void.
Reference is also made, in the principal opinion, to JXissouri,
IHansas & Texas Railway v. fIaber, 169 U. S. 613. There an
attack was made on the validity of legislation of the State

LAKE SHORE & MICH. SOUTH. RAILWAY v. OHIO. 325
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Brewer, Peckham, 33.

of Kansas, subjecting any person or persons who should bring
into that State any cattle liable or capable of communicating
"Texas or splenetic fever" to any domestic cattle of Kansas
to a civil action for damages. In such an action it was contended, on behalf of the defendant, that the Kansas statutes
were an interference with the freedom of interstate commerce,
and also covered a field of action actually occupied by Congressional legislation, known as the Animal Industry Act.
But it appeared that the Kansas act, under which the action
was brought, was passed in 1885 and amended in 1891, and
that Congress had previously invited the authorities of the
States and Territories concerned to coiperate for the extinction of contagious or communicable cattle diseases. Act of
May 29, 1881, c. 60, 23 Stat. 31. And accordingly a majority
of this court held that the statutory provisions of Kansas were
not inconsistent with the execution of the act of Congress, but
constituted an exercise of the coiperation desired. Otherwise
the case would have fallen within the ruling in Railroad Co.
v. flusen, 95 U. S. 465, where a similar statute of the State of
Missouri, passed before the legislation by Congress, and prohibiting the bringing of Texas cattle into the State of Missouri
between certain times fixed by the statute, was held to be in
conflict with the commerce clause of the Constitution, and not
a legitimate exercise of the police power of the State.
The case of llennington v. Georgia, 163 U. S. 299, demands
notice. In it was involved the validity of what is known as
the Sunday law of Georgia. That statute forbade the running
in.Georgia of railroad freight trains on the Sabbath day. The
Supreme Court of Georgia held the statute to be a regulation
of internal police and not of commerce, and that it was not in
conflict with the Constitution of the United States even as to
freight trains passing through the State from and to adjacent
States, and laden exclusively with freight received on -board
before the trains entered Georgia and consigned to points beyond its limits.
It was shown, in that case, that it had been the policy of
Georgia, from the earliest period of its history, to forbid all
persons, under penalties, from using the Sabbath as a day of

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Brewer, Peckham, JJ.

labor and for pursuing their ordinary callings, and that the
legislation in question was enacted in the exercise of that
policy. It was said in the opinion of the Supreme Court of
Georgia, which was brought to this court for review, that
"with respect to the selection of the particular day in each
week which has been set apart by our statute as the rest day
of the people, religious views and feelings may have had a controlling influence. We doubt not that they did have; and it is
notable that the same views and feelings had a very powerful
influence in dictating the policy of setting apart any day whatever as a day of enforced rest." And it was said in the opinion
of this court that "in our opinion there is nothing in the legislation in question which suggests that it was enacted with
the purpose to regulate interstate commerce, or with any other
purpose than to prescribe a rule of civil duty for all who, on
the Sabbath day, are within the territorial jurisdiction of the
State."
If, as has often been said, Christianity is part of the common
law of the several States, and if the United States, in their
legislative and executive departments throughout the country,
since the foundation of the government, have recognized Sunday as a day of rest and freedom from compulsory labor, then
such a law as that of Georgia, being based upon a public
policy common to all the States, might be sustained.
But, if put upon the ground now declared in the opinion of the
court in the present case, namely, as an exercise of the police
power of the State, and, as such, paramount to the control of
Congress in administering the commerce clause of the Constitution, then it is apparent, as I think, that the decision in Hiennington.v. Georgia was wrong, and the judges dissenting in
that case were right.
For if, as a mere matter of local policy, one State may forbid interstate trains from running on the Christian Sabbath,
an adjoining State may select the Tewish or Seventh Day
Sabbath as the day exempt from business. Another State
may choose to consecrate another day of the week in commemoration of the Latter Day Saint and Prophet who founded
such State, as the proper day for cessation from daily labor.

LAKE SHORE & MICH. SOUTH. RAILWAY v. OHIO.

327

Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Brewer, Peckham, JJ.

Or, what is more probable, one oi more of the States may think
fit to declare that one day in seven is not a sufficient portion
of the time that should be exempted from labor, and establish
two or more days of rest. The destructive effect of such inconsistent and diverse legislation upon interstate commerce,
carried on in trains running throughout the entire country, is
too obvious to require statement or illustratiQn.
But whatever may be said of the decision in Eenqnington v.
Georgia,it is, as I think, quite apparent that the Ohio legislation, now under consideration, cannot be reconciled with the
principles and conclusions of the other cases cited.

The principal facts of this case, as found by the trial court,
were: "That the defendant company is a corporation organized under the laws of the States of New York, Pennsylvania,
Ohio, Indiana, -Michigan and Illinois, and that its railroad is
operated from Chicago to Buffalo; that said defendant was
on and prior to October 9, 1890, and has been ever since, engaged in carrying passengers and freight over said railroad,
through and into each of said several States, and is and was
then engaged in the business of interstate commerce, both in
the carriage of passengers and freight from, into and through
said States; that said defendant did not on said 9th day of
October, 1890, nor shortly prior thereto, or since, up to the
time of the commencement of this suit, run daily, both ways
or either way, over said road through the village of West
Cleveland, three regular trains nor more than one regular
train each, carrying passengers, which were not engaged in
interstate commerce, and that did not have upon them passengers who had paid through fare, and were entitled to ride
on said trains going in the one direction from the city of
Chicago to the city of Buffalo, and those going in the other
direction from the city of Buffalo through said States to the
city of Chicago; that on or about the said day the defendant
operated but one regular train carrying passengers each way,
that was not engaged in carrying such through passengers;
and said train did stop at West Cleveland, on the day aforesaid, for a time sufficient to receive and let off passengers;
that the through trains that passed through West Cleveland

OCTOBER TERIVI, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Brewer, Peckham, JJ.

on the said day were train No. 1, limited express, with two
express cars, one coach and three sleepers, from New York to
Chicago; train No. 11, fast mail, with five United States mail
cars, one coach and sleeper, from New York to Chicago;
train No. 21 had one United States mail car, two baggage
and express cars, four coaches and one sleeper, from Cleveland to Chicago -these were western trains; that the eastern
trains were limited express No. 4, with one baggage and express car and three sleepers from Chicago to New York;
train No. 6, with one baggage and express car, three coaches
and two sleepers, from Chicago to New.York; train No. 24,
with one United States mail, two baggage and express cars
and seven coaches, from Chicago to Buffalo; train No. 14, with
three United States mail cars and one sleeper, from Chicago
to New York. That the average time of delay necessarily
required to stop a train of cars and sufficient time to receive
and let off passengers would be three minutes; and that the
number of cities and villages in the State of Ohio, containing
three thousand inhabitants each, through which the aforesaid
trains of the defendant passed on said day, were thirteen."
It is, therefore, a conceded fact in the case that the through
trains, which the legislature of Ohio seeks to compel to stop
at prescribed villages and towns in that State, are engaged
in carrying on interstate commerce by the transportation of
freight and passengers. It is obvious, further, that such
trains are within section 5258 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, authorizing such railroad companies "to carry
upon and over its road, boats, bridges and ferries, all passengers, troops, government supplies, mails, freight and property on their way from any State to another State, and to
receive compensation therefor, and to connect with roads of
other States so as to form continuous lines for the transportation of the same to the place of destination."
It is also plain that the defendant railroad company and
such of its trains as were engaged in interstate commerce are
within the scope and subject to the regulations contained in
the "act to regulate commerce," approved February 4, 1887,
creating the Interstate Commerce Commission.

LAKE SHORE & MICH. SOUTH. RAILWAY v. OHIO.

329

Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Brewer, Peckham, JJ.

The theory on which passenger trains to traverse several
States, or the entire continent, is prepared, is necessarily and
widely different from that followed in making up ordinary
trains to do a wayside business. There must be provision for
sleeping at night, and for furnishing meals. In order that
each and every passenger may receive the accommodation for
which he pays, the seats are sold in advance, and with reference to the number of through passengers. To enable such
trains to maintain the speed demanded, the number of the
cars for each train must be limited, and they are advertised
and known as "limited" trains. A traveller purchasing tickets on such trains has a right to expect that he will be carried
to his journey's end in the shortest possible time, consistent
with safety. The railroad companies compete for business by
holding out that they run the fastest trains and those most
certain to arrive on time. A company which, by its own
regulations or under coercion of a state legislature, stopped
its through trains at every village, would soon lose its through
business, to the loss of the company and the detriment of the
travelling public.
Nor must the necessity of the speedy transit of the United
States mails be overlooked. The Government has not thought
fit to build and operate railroads over which to transport its
mails, but relies upon the use of roads owned by state corporations operating connecting roads. And it appears, from
the findings in this case, that the defendant's through trains are
engaged by the Government in the transportation of its mails.
The business, public and private, that depends on hourly and
daily communication by mail is enormous, and it would be
intolerable if such necessary rapidity of intercourse could be
controlled and trammelled by legislation like that in question.
It was pointed out in HaZI v. De Cuir that, although the
statute of Louisiana, which sought to regulate the manner in
which white and colored passengers should be carried, was
restricted by its own terms to the limits of the State, yet
that such regulation necessarily affected steamboats running
through and beyond the State, because such regulations might
change at every state line.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Brewer, Peckham, JJ.

A similar but much greater inconvenience would be occasioned by attempting by state legislation to interfere with the
movements of through trains. If, for instance, and as is often
the case, the through trains were full of through passengers,
there would be no advantage to local travel for them to stop
at the way stations, for there would be no room or accommodation for the occasional passengers. Nor would that difficulty be obviated by attaching to each train coaches for use
at the way stat*ions. Such additional coaches would impede
the speed of the through trains, and interfere with the business of the local trains.
In lVabash Railway Company v. Illinois, it was said, replying to the argument that the state statute applied in terms
only to transportation within the State: "Whatever may be
the instrumentalities by which this transportation from the
one point to the other is effected, it is but one voyage, as
much so as that of the steamboat on the M ississippi IRiver.
It is not the railroads themselves that are regulated by this
act of the Illinois legislature so much as the charge for transportation, and if each one of the States through whose territories these goods are transported can fix its own rules for
prices, for modes of transit, for times and modes of delivery,
and all the other incidents of transportation to which the
word 'regulation' can be applied, it is readily seen that the
embarrassments upon interstate transportation, as an element
of interstate commerce, might be too oppressive to be submitted to. . . . As restricted to a transportation which
begins and ends within the limits of the State, it, the regulation, may be very just and equitable, and it certainly is the
province of the state legislature to determine that question.
But when it is attempted to apply to transportation through
an entire series a principle of this kind, and each one of the
States shall attempt to establish its own rates of transportation, its own methods to prevent discrimination in freights, or
to permit it, the deleterious influence upon the freedom of
commerce among the States and upon the transit of goods
through those States cannot be overestimated."
In Illinois Central Railroad v. Illinois, stress was justly

LAKE SHORE & MNICH.- SOUTH. RAILWAY v. OHIO. 331
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Brewer, Peckham, JJ.

laid on the manifest purpose of Congress to establish a railroad in the centre of the continent, connecting the waters of
the Great Lakes with those of the Gulf of Mexico, for the
benefit of interstate commerce, as well as of the military and
postal departments of the government.
A similar purpose has been manifested by Congress, in the
legislation hereinbefore referred to, by authorizing the formation of continuous lines of transportation, by creating a permanent commission to supervise the transactions of railroad
companies so far as they affect interstate commerce, and by
employing such continuous and connecting roads for the
transportation of its mails, troops and supplies.
These views by no means result in justifying the railroad
company defendant in failing to supply the towns and villages
through which it passes with trains adequate and proper to
transact local business. Such failure is not alleged in this
case, nor found to be a fact by the trial court. And if the
fact were otherwise, the remedy must be found in suitable
legislation or legal proceedings, not in an enactment to convert through into local trains.
Some observations may be ventured on the reasoning employed in the opinion of the court. It is said:
"In what has been said we have assumed that the statute
is not in itself unreasonable. In our judgment this assumption is not unwarranted. The requirement that a railroad
company whose road is operated within the State shall cause
three, each way, of its regular trains carrying passengers, if
so many are run daily, Sundays excepted, to stop at any station, city or village, of three thousand inhabitants, for a time
suffibient to receive and let off passengers, so far from being
unreasonable,will subserve the public convenience."
But the question of the reasonableness of a public statute is
never open to the courts. It was not open even to the Supreme
Court of the State of Ohio to say whether the act in question
was reasonable or otherwise. Much less does the power of
the legislature of Ohio to pass an act regulating a railroad
corporation depend upon the judgment or opinion of this court
as to the reasonableness of such an act.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Brewer, Peckham, JT.

And again: "It was for the State of Ohio to take into consideration all the circumstances affecting passenger travel
within its limits, and, as far as practicable, make such regulations as were just to all who might pass over the road in
question. It was not bound to ignore the convenience of its
own people, whether travelling on this road from one point
to another within the State, or from places in the State to
places beyond its limits, or the convenience of those outside
the State who wish to come into it, and look only to the convenience of those who desired to pass through the State without stopping."
It was, I respectfully submit, just such action on the part
of the State of Ohio, and just such reasoning made to support that action, that are forbidden by the Constitution of the
United States and by the decisions of this court, hereinbefore
cited. If each and every State, through which these interstate highways run, could take into consideration all the circumstances affecting passenger travel within its limits, and
make such regulations as, in the opinion of its legislature, are
"just and for the convenience of its own people," then we
should have restored the confusion that existed in commercial
transactions before the adoption of the Constitution, and thus
would be overruled those numerous decisions of this court,
nullifying state legislation proceeding on such propositions.
Again it is said:
"Any other view of the relations between the State and
the corporation created by it would mean that the directors
of the corporation could manage its affairs solely with reference to the interests of stockholders, and without taking into
consideration the interests of the general public. It would
mean not only that such directors were the exclusive directors
of the manner in which the corporation should discharge the
duties imposed upon it in the interest of the public, but that
the corporation, by reason of being engaged in interstate
commerce, could build up cities and towns at the ends of its
line, or at favored points, and by that means destroy or retard
the growth and prosperity of intervening points. It would
mean that the defendant railway company could, beyond the

LAKE SHORE & MICH. SOUTH. RAILWAY v. OHIO.

333

Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Brewer, Peckham, JJ.

power of the State to prevent it, run all of its trains through
the State without stopping at any city within its limits, however numerous the population of such cities."
I am unable to perceive, in the views that prevailed in the
Louisiana and Illinois cases, any foundation vhatever, for
such observations. In those cases it was expressly conceded"
that, in the regulation of commerce within the State and in
respect to the management of trains so engaged, the authority of the state legislature is supreme. And, in the argument
in behalf of the defendant company in this case, a similar
admission is made.
It is fallacious, as I think, to contend that the Ohio legislation in question was enacted to promote the public interest.
That can only mean the public interest of the State of Ohio,
and the reason why such legislation is pernicious and unsafe
is because it is based upon a discrimination in favor of local
interests, and is hostile to the larger public interest and convenience involved in interstate commerce. Practically there
may be no real or considerable conflict between the public
interest that is local and that which is general. But, as the
state legislatures are controlled by those who represent local
demands, their action frequently results in measures detrimental tothe interests of the greater public, and hence it is
that the people of the United States have, by their constitution and the acts of Congress, removed the control and regulation of interstate commerce from the state legislatures.
Countenance seems to be given, in the opinion of the majority, to the contention that the power of Congress over the
regulation of interstate commerce is not exclusive, by the
observation that "the plaintiff in error accepted its charter
subject necessarily to the condition that it would conform
to such reasonable regulations as the State might, from time
to time, establish, that were not in violation of the supreme
law of the land. In the absence of legislation by Congress, it
would be going very far to hold that such an enactment as the
one before us is in itself a regulation of interstate commerce
when applied to trains carrying passengers from one State
to another."

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, J.

But it has already been shown that Congress has legislated
expressly in relation to interstate trains and railroads, has
made rules and regulations for their control, and has established a tribunal to make other rules and regulations.
Besides, as was observed by Mr. Webster, in his argument
in Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 17: "The State may legislate, it is said, whenever Congress has not made a plenary
exercise of its power. But who is to judge whether Congress
has made this plenary exercise of power. It has done all that
it deemed wise; and are the States now to do whatever Congress has left undone? Congress makes such rules as in its
judgment the case requires, and those rules, whatever they
are, constitute the system. All useful regulations do not
consist in restraint; and that which Congress sees fit to
leave free is a part of the regulation as much as the rest."
Attention is called to the fact that in the cases of Hall v.
.De CQir, Wabash Railway Company v. Illinois and Illinois
Railroad v. Illinois, there were no specific regulations by
Congress as to providing separate accommodations for white
and black passengers, as to rates of freight to be charged on
interstate commerce, or as to stopping through trains at prescribed places, yet legislation by the States on those subjects
was held void by this court as a trespass on the field of interstate commerce.
"The power of Congress to regulate commerce among the
several States when the subjects of that power are national
in their nature, is also exclusive. The Constitution does not
provide that interstate commerce shall be free, but, by the
grant of this exclusive power to regulate it, it was left free,
except as Congress might impose restraint. Therefore it has
been determined that the failure of Congress to exercise this
exclusive power in any case is an expression of its will that the
subject shall be free from restrictions or impositions upon it by
the several States." In ie Ra/4rer, 140 U. S. 545.
MR. Jus'rCE WHITE dissenting.
The statute is held not to be repugnant to the Constitution
of the United States, because it is assumed to be but an exer-

LAKE SHORE & MICH. SOUTH. RAILWAY v. OHIO. 835
Dissenting Opinion: White, J.

cise of the lawful police power of the State, providing for the
local convenience of its inhabitants. On this hypothesis, the
statute is held valid, although it is conceded that it indirectly
touches interstate commerce and remotely imposes a burden
thereon. To my mind the Ohio statute, however, does not
come within the purview of the reasoning advanced to support it, and therefore such considerations become irrelevant,
and it is unnecessary to form any judgment as to their
correctness.
My conception of the statute is that it imposes, under the
guise of a police regulation for local convenience, a direct
burden on interstate commerce, and, besides, expressly discriminates against such commerce, and therefore it is in conflict with the Constitution, even by applying the rules laid
down in the authorities which are relied on as upholding its
validity. Now, what does the statute provide? Does it require all railroads within the State to operate a given number
of local trains and to stop them at designated points? INot at
all. It commands railroads, if they run three trains a day, to
cause at least three of such trains to be local trains, by compelling them to stop such trains at the places which the statute
mentions. It follows then that under the statute one railroad,
operating in the State, may be required to run only one local
train a day and to stop such train, as the statute requires, and
another railroad, reaching exactly the same territory and passing the same places, may be required to operate three trains
a day and make the exacted stops with each of such trains.
That is to say, although the same demands and the same local
interest may exist as to the two roads, upon one is imposed a
threefold heavier burden than upon the other. That this
result of the statute is a discrimination it seems to me, in
reason, is beyond question. If then the discrimination is
certain, the only question which remains is, is it a discrimination against interstate commerce? If it is, confessedly the
statute is repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.
Whence then does the discrimination arise and upon what does
it operate? It arises, alone, from the fact that the statute
bases its requirement, not upon the demands of local con-

OCTOBER TERI,

1898.

Dissenting Opinion: White, J.

venience, but upon the volume of business done by the road,
since it requires the road operating three trains to stop three
as local trains, and the road operating one train to stop only
one. But the number of trains operated is necessarily dependent upon the amount of business done, and the amount of business embraces interstate commerce as well as local business.
But making the number of local trains dependent upon the
volume of business is but to say that if a railroad has enough
interstate business, besides its local business, to cause it to run
one local and two interstate commerce trains each way each
day, the increased trains thus required for the essential purposes of interstate commerce shall be local trains, whilst another railroad, which has no interstate commerce but only
local business, requiring but one train a day, shall continue
only to operate the one local train.
Whilst the power of the State of Ohio to direct all the railroads within its territory, to operate a sufficient number of
local trains to meet the convenience of the inhabitants of the
State may be arguendo conceded - although such question
does not arise in this case and is not therefore necessary in my
opinion to be decided - that State cannot, without doing violence to the commerce clause of the Constitution of the United
States, impose upon the railroads operating within its borders
a burden based, not upon local convenience, but upon the
amount of interstate commerce business which the roads may
do, thereby causing every interstate commerce railroad to
have a burden resting upon it entirely disproportioned to local
convenience and greatly more onerous than that resting upon
roads doing a local business, and which have not a sufficient
interstate business to compel them to operate three trains. To
answer this reasoning by saying that the statute does not compel roads to operate the three trains and stop them, since it
only compels them to stop them if they operate them, is to
admit the discrimination, and to state the fact that the duty
is not made by the statute dependent upon the local convenience, but upon the whole volume of business, which of course
therefore includes interstate commerce business.
As the statute makes its exaction depend not upon a rule

LAKE SHORE & MICH. SOUTH. RAILWAY v. OHIO. 337
Dissenting Opinion: White, J.

by which the local wants are ascertained and supplied, but
upon the business done, it therefore directly operates upon the
volume of business, and only indirectly considers the possible
local convenience. Under a law which thus proceeds, my
mind refuses the conclusion that the law directly considers
local convenience and only indirectly and remotely affects
interstate commerce, when the reverse, it seems to me, is patent on the face of the statute. The repugnancy of the statute
to the Constitution of the United States is shown by the principle decided by this court in Osborn.e v. Florid,.164 U. S.
650. In that case the State of Florida imposed a license on
the business of express companies. In construing the statute,
the Supreme Court of the State held that it applied only to
business done solely within the State and not to business interstate in its character. This court, in reviewing and affirming
the decision of the state court, said that as construed by the
Florida court the statute was not repugnant to the Constitution,
because it applied to business done solely within the State, and
that the contrary would have been manifestly the case if, for the
purpose of taxation, the State had taken into consideration the
whole volume of business, including that of an interstate character. Now, if a taxing law of a State is repugnant to the Constitution because it operates upon the whole volume of business,
both state and interstate, a law of the character of that now
under consideration, which operates upon the whole volume of
business of a railroad, state and interstate, is equally repugnant
to the Constitution of the United States.
Whether in the enactment of the statute it was intended to
discriminate is not the question, for, whatever may have been
the intention of the lawmaker, if the necessary effect of the
criterion established by the law is to cause its enforcement to
produce an unlawful discrimination against interstate commerce by imposing a greater burden on the roads engaged in
such commerce than upon other roads which do a purely local
business, the statute is, I think, repugnant to the Constitution
of the United States, and should not be upheld.
For these reasons, without meaning to imply that I do not
assent to the conclusions stated by my brethren who have also,
VOL. cmxxni-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

on other grounds, dissented, I prefer to place my dissent on
what seems to me the discrimination which the statute inevitably creates.

NUGENT v. ARIZONA IMPROVEMENT
APPEAL FRO'

COMPANY.

THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.

No. 119.

Argued and submitted January 10, 11, 1599. -Decided

February 20, 1899.

Under the act of March 8, 1895, of the legislature of the Territory of Arizona, relating to convict labor and the leasing of the same, the board of
control thereby created and given charge of all charitable, penal and
reformatory institutions then existing, or which might thereafter be
created in the Territory, could not dispense with the bond required by

the statute to be given by the person or persons leasing the labor of the
convicts, for the faithful performance of their contract; and no contract

made by the board leasing the labor of the convicts could become binding upon the Territory, until a bond, such as the statute required, was
executed by the lessee and approved by the board.
In this case as it appears that no such bond was executed, the plaintiff was
not in a position to ask relief by mandamus.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

fMr. Charles F. A'insworth, Attorney General of Arizona,
and XMr. L. E. Payson for appellant, submitted on their brief.
-Mr.Eugene S. Ives for appellee.
on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

_Hr. L. H Chalmers was

delivered the opinion of the court.

By an act of the legislative assembly of the Territory of
Arizona, approved March 8, 1895, the governor and auditor
of the Territory, together with one citizen to be appointed by
the governor with the advice and consent of the council,
were constituted a board of control and given charge of all
charitable, penal and reformatory institutions then existing or
which might thereafter be created in the Territory.
It was provided by the ninth section of the act that the

