S473

BROWN v. HITCHCOCK.
Syllabus.

Wall. 253; The Lady Pike, 96 U. S. 461; Supervisors v. Kennicott, 94: U. S. 498; Stewart v. Salamon, 97 U. S. 361.
In Stewart v. Salamon, supra, Mr. Chief Justice Waite observed: 'fAn appeal will not be entbrtained by this court
from a decree entered in the Circuit or other inferior court,
in exact accordance with our mandate upon a previous appeal.
Such a decree, when entered, is in effect our decree, and the appeal would be from ourselves to ourselves. If such an appeal
is taken, however, we will, upon the application of the appellee, examine the decree entered, and if it conforms to the mandate, dismiss the case with costs. If it does not, the case will
be remanded with proper directions for the correction of the
error. The same rule applies to writs of error." Hlumphrey
v. Baker, 103 U. S. 736; Clark v. Keith, 106 U. S. 464;
Afackall v. Richards, 116 U. S. 45.
The appeal will therefore be
Dismissed.

The CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE HARLAN
BREWER dissented.

and MR. JUSTICE

BROWN v. HITCHCOCK.'
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 581. Argued February 23, 24, 1899. -Decided April 3, 1599.

Under the act of September 28, 1850, c. 84, 9 Stat. 519, known as the Swamp
Land Act, the legal title to land passes only on delivery of a patent,
and as the record in this case discloses no patent, there was no passing
of the legal title from the United States, whatever equitable rights may
have vested. Until the legal title to land passes from the Government,
inquiry as to all equitable rights comes within the cognizance of the land
department.
Although cases may arise in which a party is justified in coming into the
I The docket title of the case is Brown v. Bliss. Mr. Bliss having resigned
as Secretary of the Interior, his successor was substituted in his place.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.
courts of the District of Columbia to assert his rights as against a proceeding in the land department, or when that department refuses to act
at all, yet, as a general rule, power is vested in the department to determine all questions of equitable right and title, upon proper notice to the
parties interested, and the courts should be resorted to only when the
legal title has passed from the Government.

ON May 10, 1898, the appellant, as plaintiff, filed in the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia his bill, setting
forth, besides certain jurisdictional matters, the Swamp Land
Act of September 28, 1850, c. 84, 9 Stat. 519; the extension of
that act to all the States by the act of March 12, 1860, c. 5,
12 Stat. 3; a selection of lands thereunder by the State of
Oregon (evidenced by what is called "List No. 5,") and an
approval on September 16, 1882, of that selection by the Secretary of the Interior; a purchase in 1880 from the State by
H. C. Owen, of certain of those selected lands, and subsequent
conveyances thereof to plaintiff. Then, after showing the appointment of Hon. William F. Vilas, as Secretary of the Interior, the bill proceeds:
"That, as plaintiff is informed and believes, on the 27th day
of December, A.D. 1888, the said Secretary of the Interior, then
the said William F. Vilas, made and entered an order annulling, cancelling and revoking the said ' List number 5,' and
the approval thereof, and annulling and revoking the said judgment and determination so made by his said predecessor in said
office, the said Henry M. Teller, whereby his said predecessor
had adjudged and determined that the lands aforesaid were
swamp and overflo-ed lands within the meaning of the acts
aforesaid, and made and entered an order purporting to adjudge and determine that certain of the lands described in
said 'List number 5,' including the lands hereinbefore described, were not swamp and overflowed lands within the
meaning of the acts aforesaid.
"That thereafter, as plaintiff is informed and believes, divers
proceedings were taken before the said Secretary of the Interior and in the general land office of the United States by
the State of Oregon and by the grantors of this plaintiff to set
aside and have held for naught the orders and rulings so made

BROWN v. HITCHCOCK.
Statement of the Case.

by the said William F. Vilas as such Secretary of the Interior,
which proceedings came to an end within one year last past.
"That, as plaintiff is informed and believes, since the said
proceedings last aforesaid came to an end, the defendant, as such
Secretary of the Interior, is proceeding to put in force and to
carry out the orders and rulings so as aforesaid made by the
said William F. Vilas as such Secretary of the Interior and to
hold the lands hereinbefore described to be public lands of the
United States and subject to entry under the laws of the
United States, and threatens and intends to receive and permit
the officers of the land department of the United States to
receive applications for and allow entries of the lands aforesaid as public lands of the United States."
After alleging the invalidity of these proceedings, the bill
goes on to aver that the proceeding thus initiated by Secretary
Vilas throws a cloud upon appellant's title, "and is likely to
cause many persons to attempt to settle upon the said lands
and to enter the same in the land department of the United
States as public lands of the United States subject to such
entry, and that plaintiff will be unable to remove such persons from said lands or to quiet his title thbreto as against
them without a multiplicity of suits, and that therefore this
plaintiff is entitled in this court to an order enjoining and
restraining the defendant, as such Secretary of the Interior,
and his subordinate officers of the land department of the
United States, from in any way carrying said last mentioned
orders and rulings into effect, and from permitting any entries
upon said lands or holding the same opeh to entry, and from
in any way interfering with or embarrassing the plaintiff in
his title and ownership of the lands aforesaid."
Upon these facts plaintiff prayed a decree cancelling the
order of December 27, 1888, restraining the officers of the
land department from carrying it into effect, and forbidding
the defendant and his subordinates from holding the lands to
be public lands of the United States or subject to entry under
the general land laws. To this bill a demurrer was filed,
which was sustained, and the bill dismissed. Plaintiff appealed
to the Court of Appeals of the District, and upon an affirmance

OCTOBER TER-M, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

of the decree by that court brought the decision here for
review.
.Mr. T. B. YTreadwell for appellant.
win was on his brief.

Mr. CharlesA. ifeig-

r. Assistant Attorney General Van Devanter for appellee.
MR. JUSTME BREWER,

after stating the .case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
Under the Swamp Land Act the legal title passes only on
delivery of the patent. So the statute in terms declares. The
second section provides that the Secretary of the Interior, "at
the request of said Governor [the Governor of the State,]
cause a patent to be.issued to the State therefor; and on that
patent, the fee simple to said lands shall vest in the said State."
Rogers Locomotive Works v. American Emigrant Company,
164: U. S.559, 574; fichigan land d Lumber Go. v. Rust,
168 U. S.589, 592.
In this case the record discloses no patent, and therefore no
passing of the legal title. Whatever equitable rights or title
may have vested in the State, the legal title remained in the
United States.
Until the legal title to public land passes from the Government, inquiry as to all equitable rights comes within the cognizance of the land department. In United States v. Schurz,
102 U. S.378, 396, which was an application for a mandamus
to compel the delivery of a patent, it was said:
"Oongress has also enacted a system of laws by which rights
to these lands may be acquired, &nd the title of the Government conveyed to the citizen. This court has, with a strong
hand, upheld the doctrine that so long as the legal title to
these lands remained in the United States, and the proceedings for acquiring it were as yet infieri,the courts would not
interfere to control the exercise of the power thus vested in
that tribunal. To that doctrine we still adhere."
While a delivery of the patent was ordered, yet that was so

BROWITN v. HITCHCOCK.
Opinion of the Court.

ordered because it appeared that the patent had been duly
executed, countersigned and recorded in the proper land records of the land department and transmitted to the local land
office for delivery, and it was held that the mere manual delivery was not necessary to pass the title, but that the execution
and record of the patent were sufficient. And yet from that
conclusion Chief Justice Waite and Mr. Justice Swayne dissented. The dissent announced by the Chief Justice only emphasizes the proposition laid down in the opinion, as heretofore
quoted, that so long as the legal title remains in the Government all questions of right should be solved by appeal to the
land department and not to the courts. See in support of this
Land & Lumber Co. v. Bust,
general proposition -Michiga'supra, (which, like the present case, arose under the Swamp
Land Act,) and cases cited in the opinion. Indeed, it may
be observed that the argument in behalf of appellant was
avowedly made to secure a modification of that opinion. We
might well have disposed of this case by a simple reference to
that decision; but in view of the earnest challenge by counsel
for appellant of the views therein expressed, we have redxamined the question in the light of that argument and the authorities cited. And after such reexamination we see no reason to change, but on the contrary we reaffirm the decision in
.fichigan Land & Lumber Co. v. Rust. As a general rule no
mere matter of administration in the various Executive Departments of the Government can, pending such administration,
be taken away from such Departments and carried into the
courts; those Departments must be permitted to proceed to
the final accomplishment of all matters pending before them,
and only after that disposition may the courts be invoked to
inquire whether the outcome is in accord with the laws of the
United States. When the legal title to these lands shall have
been vested in the State of Oregon, or in some individual
claiming a right superior to that of the State, then is inquiry
permissible in the courts, and that inquiry will appropriately
be had in the courts of Oregon, state or Federal.
We do not mean to say that cases may not arise in which a
party is justified in coming into the courts of the District to

OCTOBER TERf, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

assert his rights as against a proceeding in the land department or when the department refuses to act at all. United
States v. Schurz, supra, and Noble v. Union River Logging
Railroad Co., 147 U. S. 165, are illustrative of these exceptional cases.
Neither do we affirm that the administrative right of the
departments in reference to proceedings before them justifies
action without notice to parties interested, any more than the
power of a court to determine legal and equitable rights permits action without notice to parties interested.
"The power of supervision and correction is not an unlimited
or an arbitrary power. It can be exerted only when the entry was made upon false testimony or without authority of law.
It cannot be exercised so as to deprive any person of land lawfully entered and paid for. By such entry and payment the
purchaser secures a vested interest in the property and a right
to a patent therefor, and can no more be deprived of it by
order of the Commissioner than he can be deprived by such
order of any other lawfully acquired property. Any attempted
deprivation in that way of such interest will be corrected whenever the matter is presented so that the judiciary can act upon
it." Corneliusv..Hessel, 128 U. -S. 456, 461. "The Government
holds the legal title in trust for him, and he may not be dispossessed of his equitable rights without due process of law.
Due process in such case implies notice and a hearing. But
this does not require that the hearing must be in the courts,
or forbid an inquiry and determination in the land department." Orchard v. Alexander, 157 U. S. 372, 383.
But what we do affirm and reiterate is that power is vested
in the Departments to determine all questions of equitable
right or title, upon proper notice to the parties interested, and
that the courts must, as a general rule, be resorted to only when
the legal title has passed from the Government. When it has
so passed the litigation will proceed, as it generally ought to
proceed, in the locality where the property is situate, and not
here, where the administrative functions of the Government
are carried on.
In the case before us there is nothing to show that proper

ALLEN v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO.

479

Syllabus.

notice was not given; that all parties in interest were not fully
heard, or that the adjudication of the administrative department of the Government was not justified by the facts as presented. The naked proposition upon which the plaintiff relies
is that upon the creation of an equitable right or title in the
State the power of the land department to inquire into the
validity of that right or title ceases. That proposition cannot
be sustained. Whatever rights, equitable or otherwise, may
have passed to the State by the approval of List No. 5 by
Secretary Teller, can be determined, and should be determined,
in the courts of Oregon, state or Federal, after the legal title
has passed from the Government. The decree of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia, sustained by the opinion of

the Court of Appeals of the District, was right, and is
Affirined.
MR. JUSTICE MOKENNA took no part in the consideration and
decision of this case.

ALLEN v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COM-

PANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 144. Argued January 17, 1899. -Decided

April 3, 1S99.

The sixth section of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, did not change the
limit of two years as regards cases which could be taken from Circuit
and District Courts of the United States to this court, and that act did
not operate to reduce the time in which writs of error could issue from
this court to state courts.
As a reference to the opinion of the Supreme Court of California makes
patent the fact that that court rested its decision solely upon the construction of the contract between the parties to this action which forms
its subject, and decided the case wholly independent of the Federal questions now set up; and as the decree of the court below was adequately
sustained by such independent, non-Federal question, it follows that no
issue is presented on the record which this court has power to review.

