OCTOBER TERII, 1898.
Syllabus.

in good faith. Indeed, it is entirely competent for a State to
provide by statute that all obligations, in whatever form executed by a municipality existing under its laws, shall be
subject to any defence that would be allowed in cases of
non-negotiable instruments. But for reasons that every one
understands no such statutes have been passed. Municipal
obligations executed under such a statute could not be readily
disposed of to those who invest in such securities.
It follows that the Circuit Court erred in directing the jury
to return a verdict for the defendant.
What has been said renders it unnecessary to consider various questions arising upon exceptions to specific rulings in the
Circuit Court as to the admission and exclusion of evidence,
and as to those parts of the charge to which objections were
made. Those rulings were inconsistent with the principles
herein announced.
As neither the Circuit Court nor the Circuit Court of Appeals
proceeded in accordance with the principles herein announced,
the judgment of each court is
Reversed, und the cause is rema'ndedforfurther aproceedings
consistent with this opinion.

OHIO v. THOMAS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 853.

Argued and submitted January 10, 1899.-

Decided February 27, 1899.

In making provision for feeding the inmates of the soldiers' home in Ohio,
in accordance with the legislation of Congress in that respect, and under
the direction of the board of managers, the governor of the house is engaged in the internal administration of a Federal institution, and the
state legislature has no constitutional power to interfere with the man-

agement which is provided for it by Congress, nor with the provisions
made by Congress for furnishing food to the inmates, nor does the police
power of the State enable it to prohibit or regulate the furnishing of any

OHIO v. THOMAS.
Statement of the Case.
article of food approved by the officers of the home, by the board of managers and by Congress.
Federal officers who are discharging their duties in a State, and who are
engaged in superintending the internal government and management of
a Federal institution, under the lawful direction of its board of managers
and with the approval of Congress, are not subject to the jurisdiction of
the State in regard to those very matters of administration which are
thus approved by Federal authority.
This is one of the cases in which it is proper to issue a writ of habeascorpus
from the Federal court under the rule as stated in Exparte .Royall, 117
U. S. 241, instead of awaiting the slow process of a writ of error from
this court to the highest court of the State where the decision could
be had.

Iff this case complaint was made by affidavit by the dairy
commissioner of Ohio against the appellee, alleging that on
March 2, 1897, he violated the act of the legislature of the
State of Ohio, passed in 1895, (92 Ohio State Laws, 23,) in
relation to the use of oleomargarine. Appellee was arrested
and brought before a justice of the peace, and declined to plead
to the charge on the ground that the act complained of in the
affidavit of the complainant was performed by him as governor
of the soldiers' home, located in the county of Montgomery in
the State of Ohio, and what he did was done by the authority
of the board of managers of the home. He therefore moved
to dismiss the complaint for want of jurisdiction in the magistrate. This motion was denied. He then consented to be tried
without a jury upon the following agreed statement of facts:
"1. That on the 2d day of March, 1897, Joseph E. Blackburn was and now is the food and dairy commissioner of the
State of Ohio.
"2. That on the 2d day of March, 1897, J. B. Thomas was
and now is the duly chosen and acting governor of the Central Branch of the National Home for Disabled Volunteer
Soldiers, located in the county of Montgomery, State of Ohio,
and as said governor was in charge of the eating house at the
said Central Branch of the INational Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers.
"3. Said eating house is used by said J. B. Thomas for serving and furnishing to the inmates of said Central Branch of
the tNational Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers their daily

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

food or rations, and is the only place so provided at said
National Home, and is known as the mess room of the said
Central Branch of the National Home for Disabled Volunteer
Soldiers, situate on the grounds purchased, held and used by
the United States therefor, and the acts complained of herein
consisted in causing oleomargarine to be served and furnished,
on the 2d day of Mrarch, 1897, as food and as part of the
rations furnished to the inmates thereof, under appropriations
made by the Congress of the United States for the support of
said inmates; and that no placard in size not less than 10 x 14
inches, having printed thereon in black letters not less in size
than 1 inches square, the words 'oleomargarine sold and used
here,' was displayed in said eating house.
"14. The affidavit in the cause is made in conformity with
an act of the general assembly of the State of Ohio, (Ohio
Laws, vol. 92, p. 23,) passed in 1895, and entitled 'An act
to amend section 3 of an act entitled "An act to prevent fraud
and deception in the manufacture and sale of oleomargarine
and promote public health in the State of Ohio," ' passed May
16, 1894."
Section 3 of the act, as so amended, reads as follows:
"SEc. 3. Every proprietor, keeper, manager or person in
charge of any hotel, boat, railroad car, boarding house,
restaurant, eating house, lunch counter or lunch room, who
therein sells, uses, serves, furnishes or disposes of or uses in
cooking, any oleomargarine, shall display and keep a white
placard in a conspicuous place, where the same may be easily
seen and read, in the dining room, eating house, restaurant,
lunch room or place where such substance is furnished, served,
sold or disposed of, which placard shall be in size not less than
ten by fourteen inches, upon which shall be printed in black
letters, not less in size than one and a half inches square, the
words 'oleomargarine sold and used here,' and said card shall
not contain any other words than the ones above described;
and such proprietor, keeper, manager or person in charge shall
not sell, serve or dispose of such substance as or for butter when
butter is asked for or purported to be furnished or served."
In addition to the above statement, reference was made to

OHI0

v. THOMAS.

Statement of the Case.

the following acts of Congress, providing for the creation and
government of the National Homes for Disabled Volunteer
Soldiers, viz.: act of March 3, 1865, c. 91, 13 Stat. 509; act of
March 21, 1866, c. 21, 14 Stat. 10; act of March 3, 1875,c. 129, 18
Stat. 343, 359. By the last cited statute, on page 359, it is made
the duty of the managers of the home, on or before the first
day of August in each year, "to . furnish to the Secretary of
War estimates, in detail, for the support of said home for the
fiscal year commencing on the first day of July thereafter;
and the Secretary of War shall annually include such estimates in his estimates for his Department. And no moneys
shall, after the first day of April, 1875, be drawn from the
Treasury for the use of said home, except in pursuance of
quarterly estimates, and upon quarterly requisitions by the
managers thereof upon the Secretary of War, based upon
such quarterly estimates, for the support'of said home, for
not more than three months next succeeding such requisition.

.

.

. And the managers of said home shall, at the

commencement of each quarter of the year, render the Secretary of War an account of all their receipts and expenditures
for the quarter immediately preceding, with vouchers for
such expenditures; and all such accounts and vouchers shall
be authenticated by the officers of said home thereunto duly
appointed by said managers, and audited and allowed as
required by law for the general appropriations and expenditures of the War Department."
By the act approved August 4, 1886, c. 902, 24 Stat. 222,
251, it was also provided that "hereafter the estimates for
the support of the Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers
shall be submitted by items." Also by the act approved
October 2, 1888, c. 1069, 25 Stat. 505, 543, it was "'rovided
further, That it shall be the duty of the managers of said
home, on or before the first day of October, in each year, to.
furnish to the Secretary of War estimates, in detail, for the
support of said home for the fiscal year commencing on the
first day of July thereafter, and the Secretary of War shall
annually include such estimates in his estimates for his department." Also by the act approved June 11, 1896, c. 420, 29

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

Stat. 413 445, an appropriation was made for the support of
the home at Dayton, Ohio, and for "the cost of all articles
purchased for the regular ration, their freight, preparation
and serving."
The material portions of the acts of March 3, 1865, and
Iarch 21, 1866, have been enacted in the Revised Statutes of
the United States, being sections 4825 to 4837, both inclusive.
On the third of April, 1867, the legislature of the State
of Ohio passed an act ceding jurisdiction to the United States
over the lands and their appurtenances within the State of
Ohio which might be acquired by donation or purchase by
the managers of the National Asylum for Disabled Volunteer
Soldiers within the State of Ohio, for the uses and purposes
of the asylum.
By the act, approved January 21, 1871, c. 25, 16 Stat. 399,
Congress ceded bhck to the State of Ohio jurisdiction over
the place named, and relinquished such jurisdiction on the
part of the United States, and the act contained the following: "And the United States shall claim or exercise no
jurisdiction over said place after the passage of this act:
Provided, That nothing contained in this act shall be construed to impair the powers and rights heretofore conferred
upon the board of managers of the National Asylum for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers, incorporated under said act, in and
over said territory."
Upon these facts the appellee was convicted by the magistrate
before whom he was tried, and was sentenced to pay a fine of
$50, and to be imprisoned until such fine was paid. He refused to pay the fine, and applied to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Ohio, Western
Division, for a writ of habeas coipus, on the ground that the
state tribunal before which he was tried had no jurisdiction
to try him. The writ was granted and the constable made
return thereto, setting up that he held appellee under the
mittimus from the justice of the peace before whom he was
tried. Upon the hearing the court made an order discharging appellee. 58 U. S. App. 431. The State appealed from
that order to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth

OHIO v. THOMAS.
Opinion of the Court.

Circuit, where it was affirmed, (87 Fed. Rep. 453,) and the
State then appealed to this court.
.Mr. Ohar'les H. Bosler and Mr. Otto J. Renner, for plaintiff in error, submitted on their brief.
Mr. Judson Harmon for defendant in error.
Bowman was on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM,

-Mr.

. W.

after stating the facts, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The act of the legislature of the State of Ohio, passed May
16, 1868, ceding jurisdiction to the United States, if it had
remained in force, would have prevented the state officials
from taking jurisdiction in this case. Congress, however, by
the act of January 21, 1871, ceded back and relinquished the
jurisdiction that had been granted, and provided that it would
claim or exercise no jurisdiction thereafter, except as therein
mentioned.
If we assume, what the state court decided, that the provisions of the state statute relating to the sale of oleomargarine
were intended to apply to and cover the soldiers' home, the question then arises whether the State had the power to legislate so
as to control the governor of the home, acting under the direction of the board of managers and .by the authority of Congress, in regard to the internal administration of the affairs
of the home and in respect to the conditions upon which an
article of. food might.be provided by the governor under such
directions and authority.
The home is a Federal creation, and is under the direct and
sole jurisdiction of Congress. The board of managers have
certain powers granted them, Rev. Stat. § 4825, and among
other things to make by-laws, rules and regulations not inconsistent with law for carrying on the business and government of the home.
The persons entitled to the benefits of the home are "officers
and soldiers who served in the late war for the suppression of
the rebellion," and also other soldiers and sailors. The inmates

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

are subject to the rules and articles of war, the same as if they
were in the army. Rev. Stat. §§ 4832, 4835.
Under the statutes above cited, in which it is provided that
the board of managers shall furnish to the Secretary of War,
in each year, estimates, in detail, for the support of the home
for the succeeding fiscal year, it would naturally be the duty
of the governor of each home, in order to enable the board of
managers to perform their own duty, to report to the board
the same kind of detailed estimates that the board is by law
directed to report to the Secretary of War, and which are to
be included by the Secretary in the estimates for his department. At all events, the duty is laid upon the board of managers, by the very terms of the statute, to make these estimates
in detail. It is admitted in the record that the oleomargarine
complained about herein was served and furnished by the appellee as food and as part of the rations furnished the inmates
under the appropriations made by Congress for the support of
such inmates.
From these facts the inference is plain that oleomargarine
had been included in the detailed estimates for rations to be
furnished the inmates, and that the appropriation for rations
included oleomargarine as part thereof. Otherwise we should
have to infer a dereliction of duty on the part of the board of
managers in not making out estimates in detail, and we would
adopt an inference contrary to the admission, which states that
the oleomargarine was furnished as food under an appropriation of Congress. The appropriation does not precede the
detailed estimates, but is made subsequently and is presumably enacted with reference thereto. Congress has therefore
in effect provided oleomargarine as part of the rations for the
inmates of the home. It is given them in the mess room of
the institution and under the rules and regulations for feeding
them there. In making provision for so feeding the inmates,
the governor, under the direction of the board of managers and
with the assent and approval of Congress, is engaged in the
internal administration of a Federal institution, and we think
a state legislature has no constitutional power to interfere with
such management as is provided by Congress.

OHIO v. THOMAS.
Opinion of the Court.

Whatever jurisdiction the State may have over the place
or ground where the institution is located, it can have none
to interfere with the provision made by Congress for furnishing food to the inmates of the home, nor has it power to prohibit or regulate the furnishing of any article of food which
is approved by the officers of the home, by the board of managers and by Congress. Under such circumstances the police
power of the State has no application.
We mean by this statement to say that Federal officers
who are discharging their duties in a State and who are engaged as this appellee was engaged in superintending the
internal government and management of a Federal institution, under the lawful direction of its board of managers and
with the approval of Congress, are not subject to the jurisdiction of the State in regard to those very matters of administration which are thus approved by Federal authority.
In asserting that this officer under such circumstances is
exempt from the state law, the United States are not thereby
claiming jurisdiction over this particular piece of land, in opposition to the language of the act of Congress ceding back the
jurisdiction the United States received from the State. The
government is but claiming that its own officers, when discharging duties under Federal authority pursuant to and by
virtue of valid Federal laws, are not subject to arrest or other
liability under the laws of the State in which their duties are
performed.
The claim is made that neither the board of managers nor
the governor of the home can through their officers or by
himself violate the statute law of a State having jurisdiction,
when the acts constituting the infringement are not necessary
for the government and management of the home for the
purpose for which it was incorporated, or authorized by any
act of the United States.
This claim might be conceded and still the conviction of the
appellee would be invalid, because we find in this record the
authority of the United States for the act of the governor.
The statutes above referred to, when taken in connection with
the admitted facts,.show an appropriation by Congress for the

OCTOBER TERI,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

purchase of oleomargarine as part of the regular rations of
the inmates of the home. The act of the governor in serving
it was authorized by Congress and it was therefore legal, any
act of the State to the contrary notwithstanding.
Under the facts hereihi the state court had no jurisdiction
to try the appellee for the offence charged in the written complaint made to the magistrate. See authorities cited in Tn,'e
lWaite, 81 Fed. Rep. 359.
Assuming, in accordance with the decision of the state
court, that the act of the Ohio legislature applies in terms to
the soldiers' home at Dayton, in that State, we are of opinion
that the governor was not subject to that law and the court
had no jurisdiction to hear or determine the criminal prosecution in question, because the act complained of was performed
as part of the duty of the governor as a Federal officer in and
by virtue of valid Federal authority, and in the performance
of that duty he was not subject to the direction or control of
the legislature of Ohio.
The authorities cited in the case of In re Waite, supra, and
those cited by the learned circuit judge in this case fully support the view we have taken herein. The cases of Tennessee
v. Davis, 100 U. S. 257; Expar'te Siebold, 100 U. S. 371, 394,
395; In 'e Loney, 134 U. S. 372; In i'e _eagle, 135 U. S. 1,
all concur in upholding the paramount authority of the Federal government under circumstances similar, in effect, to those
set forth in this record.
Some of the same authorities also show that this is one of
the cases where it is proper to issue a writ of habeas cortus
from the Federal court instead of awaiting the slow process of
a writ of error from this court to the highest court of the
State where a decision could be had. One of the grounds for
making such a case as this an exception to the general rule
laid down in Ex _parte Poyall,117 U. S. 241 ; Whitten v. Tomlinson, 160 U. S. 231, and Baker v. Grice, 169 U. S. 284, consists
in the fact that the Federal officer proceeded against in the
courts of the State may, upon conviction, be imprisoned as a
means of enforcing the sentence of a fine, and thus the operations of the Federal government might in the meantime be

LAKE SHORE & MICH. SOUTH. RAILWAY v. OHIO. 285
Syllabus.

obstructed. This is such a case. In Ew pa'te Royall, it was
stated by Mr. Justice Harlan, in naming some of the exceptions to the general rule there laid down, that "When the
petitioner is in custody by state authority for an act done or
omitted to be done in pursuance of a law of the United States
or of an order, process or decree of a court or judge thereof;
or where, being a subject or citizen of a foreign State, and
domiciled therein, he is in custody, under like authority, for
an act done or omitted under any alleged right, title, authority, privilege, protection or exemption claimed under the commission or order or sanction of any foreign State or under
color thereof, the validity and effect whereof depend upon the
law of nations; in such and like cases of urgency, involving
the authority and operations of the General Government or
the obligations of this country to or its relations with foreign
nations, the courts of the United States have frequently interposed by writs of habeas eorpus and discharged prisoners who
were held in custody under state authority."
For the reasons herein given we think the order of the Circuit Court of Appeals, affirming the Circuit Court, was right,
and it must be
Affirmed.
MR. JusTIcE HARLAN concurred in the judgment, but not in
all the reasoning of the opinion.
The CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

LAKE SHORE & MICHIGAN SOUTHERN RAILWAY
COMPANY v. OHIO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 95. Argued December 18, 1898. -Decided

February 20, 1899.

The statute of Ohio relating to railroad companies, in that State which
provides that "Each company shall cause three, each way, of its regular
trains carrying passengers, if so many are run daily, Sundays excepted,
to stop at a station, city or village, containing over three thousand in-

