COOPER v. IEWELL.
Syllabus.

of damage has been struck, it would seem to follow that the
:sunken vessel is not entitled to the benefit of any statute tending to lessen its liability to the other vessel, or to an increase
of the burden of such other vessel, until the amount of such
liability has been fixed upon the principle of an equal division
of damages. This is in effect extending the doctrine of the
Delaware case, wherein the question of liability for the loss of
the cargo was not in issue, to one where the vessel suffering
the greater injury is also the carrier of a cargo -in other
words, if the Harter Act was not intended to increase the liability of one vessel toward the other in a collision case, the
relations of the two colliding vessels to each other remain
unaffected by this abt, notwithstanding one or both of such
vessels be laden with a cargo.
We are therefore of opinion that the Court of Appeals did
not err in deducting half the value of the cargo from half the
value of the sunken schooner, and in limiting a recovery to the
,difference between these values. The decree is
Affirmed.
The

C=F

JUsTICE and MR. JusTicE PEcKAM dissented.

COOPER v. NEWELL.
CERTI0IATE FROM" THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 184. Argued January 12,13, 1899. -Decided

April 3, 1899.

In 1850 McGrael, a resident citizen in Brazoria County, Texas, brought an
action against Newell, who was alleged to be a citizen and resident in
that county, to recover several parcels of land. Swett, an attorney at
law, appeared for Newell and a verdict was rendered that McGrael recover the tracts, upon which verdict judgment was rendered in his,.
favor, and he went into possession. At the time when that action was
brought Newell had ceased to be a citizen of Texas, and had become a
citizen of Pennsylvania, from whence he soon removed to the city of
New York, and became a citizen of that State, and spent the remainder
of his life there and died there. He was never served with process in

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.
the action in Texas, no notice of it was given him by publication, he
never authorized Swett to appear for him, and was ignorant of the whole
proceeding. In 1890, upon the matter coming to his knowledge, he
brought this action in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Texas against persons occupying and claiming part of the
land, setting up the above facts, and asking a decree that the judgment
of 1850 was null and void, and not binding upon him. He died before
trial could be had, and the action proceeded to trial and judgment in the
name of his executors. The jury found a verdict in favor of the executors, judgment was rendered accordingly, and an appeal was taken to the
Court of Appeals. In answer to a question certified to this court by the
Court of Appeals, it is Held, that the said judgment of the district court
of Brazoria, Texas, which was a court of general jurisdiction, was, under
the circumstances stated, subject to collateral attack in the United States
Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Texas, sitting in the same territory in which said district court sat, in this suit, between a citizen of the
State of New York and a citizen of the State of Texas by evidence aliunde
the record of the state court.
The Circuit Court of the United States sitting in the State of Texas was not
bound to treat the judgment of the district court of Brazoria County as
if it were a domestic judgment drawn in question in one of the state
courts, and to therefore hold that it could not be assailed collaterally, but,
on the contrary, it was no more shut out from examining into jurisdiction
than is a Circuit Court of the United States sitting in another State, or
than are the courts of another State.

Tuis is a certificate from the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Fifth Circuit, stating that the "suit was originally brought
by Stuart Newell against Eliza Cooper and B. P. Cooper and
Fannie Westrope, as defendants, in the Circuit Court in and
for the Eastern District of Texas, sitting at Galveston, in the
ordinary form of trespass to try title, under the Texas statutes,
to recover one hundred and seventy-seven acres of land in
Harris County, Texas, described in plaintiff's petition, which
said petition was filed on the 5th day of July, 1890. The said
Stuart Newell was alleged to be a citizen of New York, and
the said defendants all citizens of Texas."
That prior to the trial Stuart Newell died, and the proper
persons were duly made parties plaintiff, as well as an additional party defendant, and plaintiffs filed their fifth amended
original petition, in which, in addition to the usual averments
required to be made by the Texas statutes in an action of
trespass to try title, plaintiffs further alleged that defendants

COOPER v. NEWELL.
Statement of the Case.

set up title to the land in controversy through a judgment
rendered May 21, 1850, in the district court of Brazoria
County, Texas, in favor of Peter McGrael and against Stuart
Newell, a certified copy of which proceedings was attached to
and made a part of said amended petition; and "that said
judgment was null and void and was not binding on the said
Stuart Newell nor plaintiffs, nor could defendants claim title
under said judgment for the following reasons, viz.:
"That at the time of the filing of said suit and the rendition of said judgment said Stuart Newell was not a resident
of Brazoria County, Texas, nor of the State of Texas, nor was
he then within said Brazoria County or the State of Texas;
that at no time did he ever reside in Brazoria County, Texas;
that on the 2d day of January, 1848, said Stuart Newell, who
then resided in Galveston County, Texas, removed from said
Galveston County to the city of Philadelphia, in the State of
Pennsylvania, and resided in said city of Philadelphia, in the
State of Pennsylvania, continuously from said date until the
year 1854, when he removed from said city of Philadelphia
to the city of New York, in the State of New York, where
he continued to reside up to the time of his death: to wit,
April 11, 1891.
"That during the time of his residence in, the city of Philadelphia he was a resident citizen of the State of Pennsylvania,
and during his -residence in the city of New York he was a
resident citizen of the State of New York, and has never at
any time been a citizen of the State of Texas, nor has he, at
any time since the year 1848, when he left Galveston County,
been anywhere in the State of Texas, but at all times since
said year 1848, up to the time of his death, had resided and
been without the limits of the said State of Texas and within the said city of Philadelphia, State of Pennsylvania, and
the said city of New York, in the State of New York; that
Stuart Newell was never served with citation, process or otherwise notified of the existence of said suit of Peter f cGrael
v. Stuart .Newell nor was he a party to said suit with his
knowledge, consent or approval; nor did he submit himself
to the jurisdiction of the said court; nor did he employ or

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

authorize any one to represent hin or enter an appearance
in said suit; nor did he know of the existence of said suit in
any manner until just prior to the institution of this suit.
"That if any attorney appeared for said Stuart Newell in
said suit he did so without any authority, permission, knowledge, or consent of or from the said Stuart Newell, and that
such appearance, if any there was, was through collusion with
said attorney and plaintiff in said suit to injure and defraud
the said Stuart Newell; and it was expressly denied that I.
A. or 5. A. Swett had any authority or permission from said
Stuart Newell to enter an appearance in said cause, nor was
such appearance on the part of the said I. A. or J. A. Swett
done with the knowledge, consent or approval of said Stuart
Newell; that at the time of the entry of said judgment said
Stuart Newell had a meritorious defence to said suit, and was
the owner in fee simple to the lands herein sued for by virtue
of a deed of conveyance to him from said Peter McGrael,
plaintiff in said suit, executed and delivered on August 9,
1848, and that at no time since said date had said Peter
McGrael any title or interest in the lands in controversy.
Attached to plaintiffs' said petition was a certified copy of the
record in the case of Peter lc Grael v. Stuart iEewell in the
district court of Brazoria County, Texas, to which was attached
the certificate of the clerk that said record contained a full,
true and correct copy of all the proceedings had in said suit,
and which record was afterwards put in evidence on the trial
by defendant.
"This record consisted of, 1st, a petition in the ordinary
form of trespass to try title, in which Peter McGrael was
plaintiff and Stuart Newell was defendant, and in which
petition it was alleged that Peter JMcGrael was a resident
citizen of the county of Brazoria, State of Texas, and that
Stuart Newell was a resident citizen of the county of Brazoria, State of Texas. A number of different tracts of land,
• one of which was situated in Brazoria County, were described
in said petition, among them the land in controversy, which
was alleged to be situated, then as now, in Harris County,
Texas. Said petition likewise contained a prayer that Stuart

COOPER v. NEWELL.
Statement of the Case.

Newell be cited to appear before the next term of the said district court of said Brazoria County, and that he be condemned
to restore to plaintiff the peaceable possession of the said lands,
and that he and all other persons be thereafter restrained
from disturbing plaintiff in the possession and use thereof,
and that defendant be condemned to pay plaintiff five thousand dollars damages for taking possession of said tracts of
.land, and also be condemned to pay a reasonable rent for
the same. Prayer was likewise made for general relief, and
that plaintiff be quieted in his title and possession of the said
land. This petition was filed on the 20th day of May, 1850,
and contained the following indorsement: 'This suit is
brought as well to try title as for damages. J. B. Jones,
att'y for plaintiff.'
"2d. The following answer, filed May 20, 1850, viz.:
"'In the Honorable District Court, May Term, A.D. 1850.
Peter McGrael 1
IV.
Stuart Newell.
"'And now comes the defendant, Stuart Newell, and says
that the matters and things in plaintiff's petition are not sufficient in law for the plaintiff to have or maintain his said action against this defendant. Wherefore he prays judgment.
J. A. Swm'T,
(Signed)
Att'y for Defendant.
"'And now, at this term of your honorable court, comes the
said defendant, Stuart Newell, and defends, etc., and says that
he denies all and singular the allegations in said plaintiff's petition contained.
J.A. SwTr,
(Signed)
Att'y for Defendant.
"'And for further answer in this behalf the said defendant
says that he is not guilty in manner and form as the said
plaintiff in his said petition hath complained against him; and
of this he puts himself upon the country.
J.A. SwFr,
(Signed)
Att'y for Defendant.'

OCTOBER TERf, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

"3d.

The following order of court:

'Peter McGrael
V.
Stuart Newell.

1

J

Eo. 1527.

MO-NDAY, MAfay 20, 1850.
present, by their attorbeing
parties
both
"'In this cause
neys, the demurrer of defendant to plaintiff's petition came on
and, being heard by the court, was overruled.'
"4th. The following decree:
"'Peter McGrael 1
No. 1527.
V.
Stuart Newell. f
TUESDAY, _May 21, 1850.
attorneys, and the detheir
by
parties,
"'This day came the
same was overruled;
the
heard,
being
murrer of the defendant
of good and lawful
jury
and thereupon came the following
who, after hearjurors),
the
of
men, to wit (here follow names
the followreturned
thereupon
ing the evidence and argument,
ing verdict:
"' We, the jury, find for the plaintiff, and that he recover
the several tracts of land mentioned and described in the
E. GIESEcOE, Foreman.
petition.

"' It is therefore ordered, adjudged and decreed by the court
that the plaintiff do have and recover of and from the defendant the several tracts of land in plaintiff's petition mentioned
and described and all thereof; that the said Stuart Newell be
forever barred from having or asserting any claim, right or
title to all or any portion of said tracts of land or any part
thereof, and that the said plaintiff be forever quieted in the
title and in the possession of all the aforesaid tracts of land.
It is further considered by the court that the plaintiff recover
of the defendant his costs of this suit, and that execution issue
for the same.'
"The defendants answered herein, demurring to the plaintiffs' fifth amended original petition upon the ground that it
appeared therefrom that the plaintiffs thereby attacked col-

COOPER v. NEWELL.
Statement of the Case.

laterally and alleged to be void the judgment of the district
court of Brazoria County, in the State of Texas, and within
the said Eastern District thereof, a court of general jurisdiction of the parties and the subject-matter connected with and
involved in said judgment, and that said judgment was a
domestic judgment, assailable only in a direct proceeding to
impeach it, and that no proceeding had ever been taken to
review, appeal from, vacate or qualify said judgment, and
that plaintiffs' right to do so is now barred by limitation
and lost by laches. Defendants also answered by plea of
not guilty and the statute of limitation of three, five and
ten years.
"Upon the trial of the case in the Circuit Court there was
evidence offered by the plaintiffs tending to prove that Peter
iMcGrael was the common source of title, and that, as alleged
in plaintiffs' petition, the land in controversy had been conveyed by said Peter MlcGrael to said Stuart Newell in fee
simple in 1848, and that said Stuart Newell was not a citizen nor a resident of the State of Texas at the time of the
institution of the aforesaid suit of Peter lVMcGrael v. said
Stuart Newell in the district court of Brazoria County, Texas;
that he was never served with any process of any character in
said suit; that he had no knowledge of the institution of the
said suit until many years thereafter; that J. A. Swett was
not his attorney in said suit and had never been employed by
him to represent him in said suit, and that any appearance
made for him by said Swett in said suit was without the
knowledge or consent of said Newell; that in said suit the
property in controversy had not been taken into the posses. sion of the court by attachment, sequestration or other process; that said Stuart Newell had never resided in Brazoria
County, Texas; that he resided in Texas, in Galveston County,
from April, 1838, to November, 1848; that he left Texas in
November, 1848, and went to the city of Philadelphia, and
resided there until 1853 or 1854, and from that time on up
to the date of his death he had resided in the city of New
York, in the State of New York, and during said years was
first a citizen of the State of Pennsylvania whilst residing
VoL. CLXxm-36

OCTOBER TERMI,

1898.

Statement of the Case.

there, and then a citizen of the State of New York whilst
residing there.
"The evidence tending to establish the above facts was all
objected to by the defendants upon the ground that said
judgment in the case of Peter 3feGrael v. Stuart lYewell was
rendered by a domestic court of general jurisdiction, and that
said Newell was sued as a citizen of said ]Brazoria County, and
that the record in said suit showed that fact and showed that
he was sued therein for the recovery of land, and that he had
appeared by his attorney, demurred, pleaded and answered
in the suit, and that his demurrer had been contested before
the court and a hearing had on the case before a jury and that
judgment Was rendered in said suit for the plaintiff, and that
said proceeding, judgment and record import absolute verity,
and that want of jurisdiction in said court could not be established outside of said record in a collateral proceeding such as
the suit at bar.
"These objections were overruled, the evidence admitted,
and defendants excepted thereto.
"The issue of the validity of said judgment in the case of
Peter XfcGrael v. Stuart Vewell was submitted to the jury by
the following charge of the court, viz.:
"' There are only two questions left to your consideration:
First, whether or not the judgment rendered in Brazoria
County May 21, 1850, in favor of Peter McGrael against
Stuart Newell was procured without service and without the
authorized appearance of Stuart Newell. If the evidence satisfies your mind that Stuart Newell was not a party to the
suit in fact-that is, was not served and did not enter his
personal appearance, and did not authorize Mr. Swett to
appear for him-you are instructed that the judgment is
a nullity and the plaintiffs are entitled to recover this land,
unless defendants have it by statute of limitations. If you
determine from the testimony in this case that Stuart Newell
was represented in that suit by Mr. Swett and he was authorized to represent him, in that event you need not consider the
plea of limitation, but return a verdict for the defendants. If
Mr. Swett was authorized to appear for Stuart Newell in the

COOPER v. NEWELL.
Statement of the Case.

litigation, you need not consider the plea of limitation, but
return a verdict for the defendants; but if you find from the
testimony that Mr. Swett was not authorized to appear for
him, then that judgment is a nullity and the title to this
property would be in the executors of Stuart Newell, plaintiffs in this case, unless you find under the plea of limitation
which I shall instruct you upon in favor of the defendants.
If you find for the plaintiffs, the form of your verdict will be,
"We, the jury, find for the plaintiffs against the defendants."
If you find for the defendants, the form of your verdict should
be, "We, the jury, find for the defendants the land described
in the plaintiffs' petition and against the plaintiffs;" and in
that event you are further directed to state whether or not
you find the Brazoria County judgment was a valid or void
judgment, and you will also state whether you find the defendants have title to the property by limitation; and, if so,
you will add, "We, the jury, find the defendants have the
title to the property by reason of the five years' limitation."
Those are two special findings, if you find for the defendants.
If you find from the evidence in this case that Stuart Newell
authorized Mr. Swett to appear for him in that case, the
judgment is valid, but if you find he was not authorized to
appear for him, then the judgment is a nullity. The burden of
proof is upon the plaintiffs to show nullity of the judgment in
Brazoria County.'
"To this charge of the court the defendants duly excepted and asked the court to give to the jury the following
instructions:
"'The judgment of the district court of Brazoria County,
rendered on May 21, 1850, in the case of Peter fo Grael v.
Stuart .Vewell, put the title to the land now sued for in said
McGrael, and McGrael's deed to Westrope on March 2, 1860,
put the title in Westrope, and defendants are entitled to your
verdict, and you will find for them.'
"This instruction the court refused to give, and to this
action of the court defendants duly excepted. The jury
brought in the following verdict: 'We, the jury, find for
the plaintiffs, as against the defendants, the lands described

OCTOBER TERAM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

in plaintiffs' petition;' which verdict was duly received and
upon it judgment rendered for plaintiffs.
"The defendants in time filed their bills of exception, and
this case was brought to this court by writ of error. Among
other assignments of error it was complained that the Circuit
Court had erred in overruling defendants' demurrer to plaintiffs' petition attacking the validity of said judgment in the
case of Peter X1aGrael v. Stuart 1LXTewell and in permitting the
introduction of the evidence hereinbefore recited and in charging the jury as hereinbefore recited and in refusing to charge
the jury as hereinbefore recited.
"Whereupon, the court desiring the instruction of the honorable Supreme Court of the United States for the proper decision of the questions arising on the record, it is ordered that
the following question be certified to the honorable the Supreme Court of the United States, in accordance with the
provisions of section 6 of the act entitled 'An act to establish
Circuit Courts of Appeals and to define and regulate in certain cases the juridiction of the Circuit Courts of the United
States, and for other purposes, approved March 3, 1891,' to wit:
"Was the judgment of the district court of Brazoria County,
Texas, (said court being a court of general jurisdiction,) in
the case of Peter _ceGraeZ v. Stuartlewell, subject to collateral attack in the United States Circuit Court for the Eastern
District of Texas, sitting in the same territory in which said
district court sat, in this suit, between a citizen of the State of
New York and a citizen of the State of Texas, by evidence aliunde, the record of the state court showing that the defendant,
Stuart Newell, in said suit in said state court was not a resident of the State of Texas at the time the suit was brought
nor a citizen of said State, but a resident citizen of another
State, and that he was not cited to appear in said suit, and
that he did not have any knowledge of said suit, and that he
did not, in fact, appear in said suit, and that he did not authorize J. A. Swett, the attorney who purported to appear for him
in said suit, to make any such appearance, and that the appearance by said attorney was made without his knowledge
or consent."

COOPER v. NEWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

.fr.F. Charles flume for Cooper and others.
No appearance for Newell.
MRB. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court:
The question is whether the judgment entered by the district court of Brazoria County, Texas, in favor of McGrael
and against Newell, was open to the attack made upon it in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Texas. The record of the suit in which that judgment was
entered showed a petition in the ordinary form of trespass to
try title, filed May 20, 1850, alleging McGrael and Newell to
be resident citizens of the county of Brazoria, Texas, and describing several different tracts of land, one of which was situated in Brazoria County, and, among the others, the tract in
controversy, which was alleged to be situated then as now in
Harris County, Texas; a demurrer and pleas signed by a person as "att'y for defendant," filed the same day; a verdict
and judgment against Newell rendered and entered -May 21,
1850. The record does not show that any process was issued
on the petition and served on Newell, or any notice given to
Newell by publication or otherwise; or affirmatively that the
person signing the demurrer and pleas was authorized to do so.
The evidence on the trial of the present case in the Circuit
Court must be taken as establishing that Newell was not a
citizen nor a resident of Texas at the time the suit was commenced in the Brazoria County district court; that he was
never served with any process in that suit and had no knowledge of its institution until many years thereafter; that the
person who signed the pleadings for defendant was not Newell's attorney and had never been employed by him to represent him, and that any appearance made for Newell in the
suit was without his knowledge or consent; that in that suit
the property in controversy was not taken into the possession
of the court by attachment, sequestration or other process;
that Newell had never resided in Brazoria County, Texas,
though he had resided in Galveston County prior to Novem-

OCTOBER TERAI, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

ber, 1848, when he went to the city of Philadelphia, and resided there until 1853 or 1854, when he removed to the city
of New York, where he resided up to the date of his death in
1891; and that during the period from November, 1848, to
1891 he was first a citizen and resident of Pennsylvania and
then a citizen and resident of -NewYork. This evidence was
objected to on the ground that the judgment was rendered by
a domestic court of general jurisdiction, and that want of
jurisdiction cannot be established aliunde the record in a
collateral proceeding.
In Thoml)son, v. Wiitman, 18 Wall. 457, a leading case in
this court, it was ruled that "neither the constitutional provision that full faith and credit shall be given in each State to
the public acts, records and judicial proceedings of every other
State, nor the act of Congress passed in pursuance thereof, prevents an inquiry into the jurisdiction of the court by which
a judgment offered in evidence was rendered;" that "the record of a judgment rendered in another State may be contradicted as to the facts necessary to give the court jurisdiction;
and if it be shown that such facts did not exist, the record will
be a nullity, notwithstanding it may recite that they did exist ;"
and that "want of jurisdiction may be shown either as to the
subject-matter or the person, or, in proceedings in rem., as to
the thing."
But while these propositions are conceded, it is insisted that
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Texas was bound to treat this judgment rendered by one of
the courts of the State of Texas as if it were strictly a domestic
judgment drawn in question in one of those courts, and to hold
that it therefore could not be assailed collaterally.
We are of opinion that this contention cannot be sustained, and that the courts of the United States sitting in
Texas are no more shut out from examining into jurisdiction
than if sitting elsewhere, or than the courts of another State.
A domestic judgment is the judgment of a domestic court, and
a domestic court is a court of a particular country or sovereignty. Undoubtedly the judgments of courts of the United
States are domestic judgments of the Nation, while in the par-

COOPER v. NEWELL.
e

Opinion of the Court.

ticular State in which rendered they are entitled to be regarded
as on the same plane in many senses as judgments of the State;
and so the judgments of the courts of the several States are
not to be treated by each other or by the courts of the United
States as in every sense foreign judgments. But the courts of
the United States are tribunals of a different sovereignty, and
exercise a distinct and independent jurisdiction from that
exercised by the state courts, and this is true in respect of the
courts of the several States as between each other. And the
courts of the United States are bound to give to the judgments of the state courts the same faith and credit that
the courts of one State are bound to give to the judgments of
the courts of her sister States.
The same rule applies to each, and the question of jurisdiction is open to inquiry even when the judgment of the court
of a State comes under consideration in a court of the United
States, sitting in the same State. Christmas v. 2ussell, 5 Wall.
290; Ga4inb v. Page, 18 Wall. 350; Pennoyer v. ]&eff, 95 U. S.
714; Fartv. Sansom, 110 U. S.151 ; Goldey v. -forning NAews,
156 U. S.518.
In Pennoyer v. efl, Mr. Justice Field, after discussing the
question how far a judgment rendered against a non-resident,
without any service upon him, or his personal appearance, was
entitled to any force in the State in which it was rendered,
said: "Be that as it may, the courts of the United States are
not required to give effect to judgments of this character when
any right is claimed under them. Whilst they are not foreign
tribunals in their relations to the state courts, they are tribunals of a different sovereignty, exercising a distinct and independent jurisdiction, and are bound to give to the judgments
of the state courts only the same faith and credit which the
courts of another State are bound to give to them." 95 U. S.
732.
And in Goldey v. .lorning. News, 156 U. S.518, 521, where
the authorities are extensively cited, Mr. Justice Gray said:
"It is an elementary principle of jurisprudence, that a court
of justice cannot acquire jurisdiction over the person of one
who has no residence within its territorial jurisdiction, except

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

0

by actual service of notice within the jurisdiction upon him or
upon some one authorized to accept service in his behalf, or by
his waiver, by general appearance or otherwise, of the want
of due service. Whatever effect a constructive service may
be allowed in the courts of the same government, it cannot
be recognized as valid by the courts of any other government.
. . . For example, under the provisions of the Constitution
of the United States and the acts of Congress, by which judgments of the courts of one State are to be given full faith and
credit in the courts of another State, or of the United States,
such a judgment is not entitled to any force or effect, unless
the defendant was duly served with notice of the action in
which the judgment was rendered, or waived the want of such
notice. . . . If a judgment is rendered in one State against
two partners jointly, after serving notice upon one of them
only, under a statute of the State providing that such service
shall be sufficient to authorize a judgment against both, yet
the judgment is of no force or effect in a court of another
State, or in a court of the United States, against the partner
who was not served with process. . . . So a judgment
rendered in a court of one State, against a corporation neither
incorporated nor doing business within the State, must be regarded as of no validity in the courts of another State, or of
the United States, unless service of process was made in the
first State upon an agent appointed to act there for the corporation, and not merely upon an officer or agent residing in
another State, and only casually within the State, and not
charged with any business of the corporation there. .
The principle which governs the effect of judgments of one
State in the courts of another State is equally. applicable in
the Circuit Courts of the United States, although sitting in
the State in which the judgment was rendered. In either
case, the court the service of whose process is in question, and
the court in which the effect of that service is to be determined, derive their jurisdiction and authority from different
governments."
It must be remembered that this action was commenced by
INewell as a citizen of New York against citizens of Texas, in

COOPER v. NEWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

the exercise of a right secured to him by the Constitution of
the United States, and it would go far to defeat that right
if it should be held that he was cut off in the Circuit Court
from proving that he was not a citizen and resident of Texas
when the controverted action was commenced, and that he
had not authorized any attorney to appear for him in that
action. As any provisions by statute for the rendition of judgment against a person not a citizen or resident of a State, and
not served with process or voluntarily appearing to an action
against him therein, would not be according to the course of
the common law, it must follow that he would be entitled
to show that he was not such citizen or resident, and had not
been served or appeared by himself or attorney.
Accordingly, it was held in _Heedham v. Thayer, 147 Mass.
536, that a defendant in an action brought in Massachusetts
on a judgment inpersonamin that State, might set up in defence that he was at the time the original action was brought
a non-resident, and neither was srved personally with process
nor appeared therein.
And so in New York, when a judgment of a court of that
State was drawn in question, which had been entered against
a non-resident, who was not during the pendency of the proceedings within the jurisdiction of the State. Tilas v. Plattsburgh and -YontrealRailroadCompany, 123 N. Y. 440. There
the rule that domestic judgments against a party not served,
but for whom an attorney appeared without authority, cannot be attacked collaterally, was adhered to; yet the Court of
Appeals declined to apply it to a case where the defendant
was a non-resident and not within the jurisdiction during the
pendency of the proceedings, such judgments being held to
be not strictly domestic but to fall Nyithin the principle applicable to judgments of the courts of other States, in respect
of which Andrews, J., delivering the opinion of the court,
said: "It is well settled that in an action brought in our courts
on a judgment of a court of a sister State the jurisdiction of
the court to render the judgment may be assailed by proof
that the defendant was not served and did not appear in the
action, or where an appearance was entered by an attorney,

OCTOBER TERMVf, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

that the appearance was unauthorized, and this even where the
proof directly contradicts the record."
We do not understand any different view to obtain in Texas.
In Fowler v. -Aforrill, 8 Texas, 153, it was held that the acceptance of service of process by an attorney is only Tprim&
facie evidence of his authority. In Parker v. Spencer, 61
Texas, 155, the court decided that a judgment did not affect
a party who had not been served, but who on the record appeared by an attorney not authorized to so appear, and it was
said: "And as he had not been made a party to the suit by
any of the modes known to the law, he could not be bound by
the judgment. But he had the option either to have it *Vacated
by direct proceeding or else to treat it as void in any collateral
proceeding where rights might be asserted against him by reason of the same."
In Bender v. Damon, 72 Texas, 92, which is much in point,
Chief Justice Stayton states the case as follows:
"The petition alleges substa'ntially the facts necessary to be
alleged in an action of trespass to try title, and the petition
was so endorsed. Had it done this and no more, there could
have been no ground for controversy in the court below as to
its jurisdiction to hear and determine the cause, nor as to the
sufficiency of the petition on general demurrer. The appellant, however, sought to remove cloud from fiis title, which a
judgment in his favor in an action of trespass to try title would
have accomplished as against the defendants, and to obtain
this relief he undertook to show that appellees were claiming
under a sheriff's sale and deed under an execution issued from
the district court for Navarro County, on a judgment rendered
by that court against him and in favor of S. J. T. Johnson, all
of which he claimed were invalid.
"Some of the facts which he alleged to show the invalidity
of that judgment, execution and sale, were such as might entitle him, by a proper proceeding, to have had them vacated,
but not such as to render them void.
"The petition, however, went further, and alleged facts
which, if true, would render the judgment void. It alleged
that the plaintiff was a non-resident of this State; that he

COOPER v. NEWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

never was cited to appear, and did not appear in person or by
attorney in the proceeding in which the judgment in favor of
Johnson and against himself was rendered; and that appellees claimed through an execution and sale made under a judgment so rendered. If these averments be true the judgment
was void, and no one could acquire rights under it."
We think the Circuit Court was clearly right in admitting
evidence to contradict the recital that Newell was a citizen
and resident of Texas, and to show that the attorney had no
authority to represent him.
Nor can this judgment be held conclusive on the theory
that the suit of 3fcGrael v. HVewell was in the nature of a
proceeding inrem. The property was not taken into custody
by attachment, or otherwise, and the suit depended entirely
on the statutes of Texas providing the procedure for the trial
of the title to real estate, which contained at that time no particular provision for bringing in non-residents of the State.
There was a statute providing generally that in suits against
non-residents service could be had by publication, and that
statute provided that if the plaintiff, or his agent, or attorney,
when the suit was instituted, or during its progress, made affidavit before the clerk of the court that defendant was not a
resident of the State of Texas, or that he was absent from the
State, or that he was a transient person, or that his residence
was unknown, then a citation should issue which should be
published in a newspaper. Acts Texas, 1848, 106, c. 95. This
statute was applicable to all suits, and so far as actions against
non-residents were personal, judgment on citation by publication would not be conclusive. And the law also required that
where any judgment was rendered on service by publication,
the court should make out and incorporate with the records
of the case a statement of the facts proven therein on which
the judgment was founded. Acts Texas, 1846, 395. It is true
that "it was within the power of the legislature of Texas to
provide for determining and quieting the title to real estate
within the limits of the State and within the jurisdiction of
the court, after actual notice to all known claimants, and
notice by publication to all other persons." Hlamilton v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Brown, 161 U. S. 256, 274; Arndt v. Griggs, 131 U. S. 316.
But it would seem that there was no such statute at the time
of the commencement of the McGrael suit, and that suit could
only be regarded as a personal action and coming within the
rule laid down in Pennoyer v. iYef, 95 U. S. 714.
M oreover, the record in .2cGraelv. Newell shows that the
suit was not brought as against a non-resident of the State,
it being alleged in plaintiff's petition that defendant resided
in Brazoria County, Texas. So that even if it were held that
the statutes of the State, taken together, authorized suits of
this character to be brought against non-residents as proceedings in, rem, this cannot be asserted as to this suit; and it
affirmatively appeared that no citation by publication could
have been had. The citation prayed for was to be addressed
to the proper officer of Brazoria County, to be served on
defendant as a resident of that county; no citation by publication was asked for, and no record of the facts on which
the case was tried was kept as required by statute, and the
whole case was tried as a case against a' resident of Brazoria
County appearing by attorney. The statute at that time provided that "any party to a suit, his agent or attorney, may
waive the necessity of the issuance or the service of any writ
or process required to be served on him in the suit, and accept
such service thereof; provided, that such waiver or acceptance
shall be made in writing, signed by such party, his agent or
attorney, and filed among the papers of the suit, as a record."
Acts Texas, 1846, 367. The record here showed no such acceptance or waiver of service.
Treated as a personal action, brought as against a resident,
when the facts appeared that defendant was not a resident of
the State of Texas and was not served in that State, and had
not appeared by attorney, then the judgment ceased to be
binding. The result is the same if the suit were regarded as
brought under a statute making provision for the bringing of
suits to settle the title to lands in Texas, since that proceeding
would have been purely statutory, and not according to the
course of the common law, and the record did not show that it
was instituted in the manner required by the statute, or ap-

POPE v. LOUISVILLE, NEW ALBA NY &c. RAILWAY.

573

Statement of the Case.

pearance had or waived as required, or that the jurisdiction
of the court in fact so attached as to authorize the court to
render the judgment. Galpin v. Page, 18 Wall. 350.
It follows that the question propounded must be
Answered in the aflrmative.

POPE v. LOUISVILLE, NEW ALBANY & CHICAGO
RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 803. Submitted January 30, 1899. -Decided April 3, 1899.
When the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of the United States depends on
diverse citizenship, its decree is made final by the act of March 3, 1891,
c. 517, 26 Stat. 826.
When an action or suit is commenced by a receiver, appointed by a Circts
Court, to accomplish the ends sought and directed by the suit in whic
the appointment was made, such action or suit is regarded as ancillary
so far as the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, as a court of the United
States, is concerned; and where the jurisdiction of the main suit is
predicated on diversity of citizenship, and the decree therein in the
Circuit Court of Appeals therefore becomes final, the judgment and
decrees in the ancillary litigation are also final.
The suits in which this receiver was appointed were in the nature of
creditors' bills, and the only ground of Federal jurisdiction set up in
them was diversity of citizenship; and as, if the decrees therein had
been passed upon by the Circuit Court of Appeals, its decision would
have been final, the same finality attaches to the decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals in this suit.

BAT.L and Pettit filed their bill in the Circuit Court of the

United States for the Northern District of Illinois alleging
that Ball was a citizen of Indiana and that Pettit was a citizen of Wisconsin, and that defendants were citizens of Indiana and Illinois, which suit was discontinued as to Ball,
leaving Pettit, a citizen of Wisconsin, the sole complainant.
Pope was appointed, in substitution for one Fish, receiver of the

