OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

It results that the plaintiffs in error, as heirs of Rodman
M. Price, were not denied by the final judgment of the state
court any right secured to them by the act of 1891.
Something was said in argument which implied that Price
had wrongly resisted the collection of the Forrest claim and
judgment. It is proper to say that so far as the record speaks
on that subject, the course of the deceased was induced by
the belief on his part that it was a claim which he was not
bound in law or justice to pay. Our conclusion does not rest
in any degree upon the character of that claim, but entirely
upon questions of law arising out of matters that were concluded, so far as this court is concerned, by the action of the
state court, and which we have no jurisdiction to review.
We find in the record no error of law in respect of the
Federal questions presented for consideration, and therefore
the decree below must be
Affrrned.

SMITH v. BURNETT.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE

DISTRICT

OF

COLUMBIA.
No.112. Argued January 6,9,1899.-Decided March 13, 1899.

Undoubtedly there was jurisdiction in admiralty in this case, in the courts
below.
Although a wharfinger does not guarantee the safety of vessels coming to
his wharves, he is bound to exercise reasonable diligence in ascertaining
the conditions of the berths thereat, and, if there is any dangerous obstruction, to remove it, or to give due notice of its existence to vessels
about to use the berths; at the same time the master is bound to use
ordinary care, and cannot carelessly run into danger.
This court is unable to decide that the Court of Appeals of the District of
Columbia was not justified in holding, on the evidence, that appellants
were liable for negligence and want of reasonable care, and that the
master was free from contributory negligence, and therefore affirms
the decree of the Court of Appeals which agreed with the trial court on
the facts.

SMITH. v. BURNETT.
Statement of the Case.

Tmis was an appeal from the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia affirming a decree of the Supreme Court of
the District, sitting in admiralty, whereby appellees, original
libellants in the cause, were awarded damages, and a cross
libel filed by appellants was dismissed. 10 D. C. App. 469.
As stated by the Court of Appeals, the libel was filed by appellees against appellants for an alleged injury to their vessel,
the schooner Ellen Tobin, while moored in berth at appellants'
wharf on the bank of the Potomac at Georgetown, for the
purpose of being loaded by and for appellants; and the injury
complained of was averred to have been occasioned by appellants negligently allowing a dangerous rock to remain in the
bed of the river within the limits of the berth at the wharf,
which the vessel was invited to take, the obstruction being
unknown to the master of the vessel, and he having been moreover assured by appellants through their agent that the depth
of water in the berth in front of the wharf was sufficient and
that the berth was safe for the loading of the vessel.
The facts, in general, found by that court were: That appellants were lessees of wharf and water rights extending to
the channel of the river, and the berth assigned to and taken
by the schooner for the purpose of loading was in front of
their wharf and within the leased premises; that appellants
were engaged in the business of crushing and shipping stone
from the wharf to different points; and that the schooner had
been brought up the river by prearrangement with a ship
broker in Georgetown in order to be loaded by appellants at
their wharf with crushed stone to be taken to Fortress Monroe, in Virginia, to be used in government work at that place.
That the vessel was stanch and in good repair; was a three
masted schooner of six hundred tons capacity; was registered
at the New York custom house as a coasting vessel of the
United States, and was owned by appellees at the time of the
injury complained of. It was further found "that the vessel
was sunk on [Sunday,] the 6th of August, 1893, as she was
moored in the berth at the wharf, while receiving her cargo of
crushed stone from the wharf, by means of a chute extended
from the wharf to the hatchway of the vessel. The vessel

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

was about two thirds loaded, having received about four hundred tons of her cargo, before signs were discovered of her
distressed condition. She was then taking water so rapidly
that the pumps could not relieve her, nor could the extra assistance employed by the master avail to save her from breaking and sinking in the berth. The work of loading was stopped
on Saturday evening, with the intention of resuming the work
of loading on the following Monday morning; and the captain of the vessel, at the time of stopping work on Saturday,
made soundings around the vessel and supposed that she was
then lying all right. But on Sunday morning it was discovered that there was so much water in her that she could not
be relieved by her pumps; and by 5 o'clock on the afternoon
of that day she had filled with water, and broke in the middle,
and sank in her berth, where she remained, with her cargo
under water, until the 1st of November, 1893, when the stone
was pumped out of her, and she was then condemned as worthless, and was afterwards sold at auction for $25 to one of the
owners." Other findings of fact appeared in the opinion.
Appellants denied all negligence, and insisted that they were
in no way responsible for the disaster; and in a cross libel asserted a claim for damages caused by the fault of appellees in
allowing the vessel to sink in the river in front of their wharf
and to remain there for an undue time. The evidence was
voluminous and conflicting.
.MXr. James S. Ed.)Ur. P. D. Benedict for appellants.
wards, _Mr. Job Barnard and .Mr. NVathaniel Wilson were
on his brief.
Mr. William G. Cioate for appellees.
FULLEE, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
AI.

CHIEF JUsTIcE

Undoubtedly there was jurisdiction in admiralty in the
courts below, and the applicable principles of law are
familiar.

SMITH v. BURNETT.
Opinion of the Court.

Although a wharfinger does not guarantee the safety of vessels coming to his wharves, he is bound to exercise reasonable
diligence in ascertaining the condition of the berths thereat,
and if there is any dangerous obstruction to remove it, or to
give due notice of its existence to vessels about to use the
berths. At the same time the master is bound to use ordinary
care, and cannot carelessly run into danger. Philadephia,
Wimington &c.Railroadv. Philadelphia&c.Steam Towboat
Co., 23 How. 209; Sawyer v. Oaman, 7 Blatchford, 290;
Thompson v. N. E. R. R. Company, 2 B. & S. 106; S. C. Exch.
(1860,) 119; .Mersey Docks TYrustees v. Gibbs, L. R. 1 H. L.
93; Carleton v. Franconia_Zro and Steel Company, 99 Mass.
216; Nickerson v. Tirrell,127 Mass. 236; Barberv. AbendrothA,
102 N. Y. 406.
Carleton v. Franconia Iron and Steel Comjany, 99 Mass.
216, is so much in point that we quote from it, as did the
Court of Appeals. The case was in tort for injury to plaintiffs' schooner by being sunk and bilged in the dock adjoining
defendants' wharf which fronted on navigable waters, where
the tide ebbed and flowed. Defendants had dredged out the
adjoining space to accommodate vessels which were accustomed to come with iron and coal for defendants' foundries,
situated on the wharf. There was in the space dredged a
large rock, sunk in the water and thereby concealed from sight,
dangerous to vessels, and so situated that a vessel of the draft
to which the water at the wharf was adapted, being placed at
high water at that part of the wharf, would lie over the rock,
and at the ebb of the tide would rest upon it. Defendants
had notice of the existence and position of the rock and of its
danger to vessels, but neglected to buoy or mark it or to give
any notice of it to plaintiffs or any one in their employment,
though their vessel came to the wharf by defendants' procurement, bringing a cargo of iron for them under a verbal charter. Mr. Justice Gray, among other things, observed:
"It does not indeed appear that the defendants owned the
soil of the dock in which the rock was embedded; but they
had excavated the dock for the purpose of accommodating vessels bringing cargoes to their wharf; and such vessels were
VOL. cLxxmI-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

accustomed to occupy it, and could not discharge at that point
Even if the wharf
of the wharf without doing so....
was not public but private, and the defendants had no title
was
in the dock, and the concealed and dangerous obstacle
still
were
they
agency,
human
any
by
or
not created by them
which
vessel
a
to
it
by
occasioned
injury
responsible for an
they had induced for their own benefit to come to the wharf,
or
and which, without negligence on the part of its owners
adapted
apparently
place
a
in
put
their agents or servants, was
unsafe.
to its reception, but known by the defendants to be
of the
that
from
principle
in
This case cannot be distinguished
there
that
knowing
who,
owner of land adjoining a highway,
of
part
travelled
the
was a large rock or a deep pit between
bringing
carrier,
a
tell
the highway and his own gate, should
him
goods to his house at night, to drive in, without warning
injury
an
for
liable
of the defect, and who would be equally
or did
sustained in acting upon his invitation, whether he did
not own the soil under the highway."
or
And as to the degree of care required of the master
rightly
vessel owner, the same court in Nickerson v. Tirrell
master
said: "The true rule was stated to the jury, that the
run
was bound to use ordinary care, and could not carelessly
was
he
into danger. We cannot say, as matter of law, that
negligent because he did not examine or measure the dock
and berth. It was for the jury to determine whether the
masconduct and conversation of the defendant excused the
did
he
than
examination
particular
more
ter from making any
care
such
used
he
evidence,
the
all
upon
make, and whether,
ciras men of ordinary prudence would use under the same
cumstances."
The cases necessarily vary with the circumstances. In The
Strom, 42 Fed. Rep. 922, the libellant sought to recover damages received by its steamer, while moored alongside respondent's pier, by settling, with the fall of the tide, on the point
of a spindle, part of a derrick attached to a sunken dredge.
Work was proceeding for the removal of the dredge, and several
buoys had been set to indicate the place of its several parts.
The agent of the steamer knew of the location of the wreck;

SMITH v. BURNETT.
Opinion of the Court.

sought permission to moor outside of it; and undertook to
put the ship in position. The liability to danger was as well
known to the steamer as to the wharfinger, who made no
representation and was free from negligence. The libel was
dismissed, and the decree was affirmed by this court. Panama Railroad Company v. Napier Shiping Company, 166
U. S. 280.
In Tke .Jfooroock, 13 P. D. 157, defendants, who were
wharfingers, agreed with plaintiff for a consideration to allow
him to discharge his vessel at their jetty which extended into
the river Thames, where the vessel would necessarily ground
at the ebb of the tide. The vessel sustained injury from the
uneven condition of the bed of the river adjoining the jetty.
Defendants had no control over the bed, and had taken no
steps to ascertain whether it was or was not a safe place for
the vessel to lie upon. It was held that, though there was no
warranty, and no express representation, there was an implied
undertaking by defendants that they had taken reasonable
care to ascertain that the bottom of the river at the jetty was
not in a condition to cause danger to a vessel, and that they
were liable. The judgment was sustained in the Court of
Appeal, 14 P. D. 64, and was approved by the House of
Lords in The Caliope, (1891) App. Cas. 11, though in the
latter case it was ruled, on the facts, that there was no sufficient evidence of any breach of duty on the part of the wharfingers, and that the injury to the vessel was caused by the
captain and pilot attempting to berth her at a time of the
tide when it was not safe. The berth was in itself safe, but
it was held that, under the particular circumstances disclosed
by the proofs, the ship owner had assumed as to the approaches the risk of reaching the berth; while the general
rule in respect of the duty of wharfingers was not questioned.
The Lord Chancellor remarked: "In this case the wharfinger, who happens to be the consignee, invites the vessel to
a particular place to unload. If, as it is said, to his knowledge the place for unloading was improper and likely to injure the vessel, he certainly ought to have adopted one of
these alternatives: either he ought not to have invited the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

vessel or he ought to have informed the vessel what the condition of things was when she was invited, so that the injury
might have been avoided." Lord Watson: "I do not doubt
that there is a duty incumbent upon wharfingers in the position of the appellants towards vessels which they invite to
use their berthage for the purpose of loading from or unloading upon their wharf; they are in a position to see, and are in
my opinion bound to use reasonable diligence in ascertaining
whether the berths themselves and the approaches to them
are in an ordinary condition of safety for vessels coming to
and lying at the wharf. If the approach to the berth is impeded by an unusual obstruction they must either remove it,
or, if that cannot be done, they must give due notice of it to
ships coming there to use their quay." And Lord Rerschell:
"I do not for a moment deny that there is a duty on the part
of the owner of the wharf to those whom he invites to come
alongside that wharf, and a duty in which the condition of
the bed of the river adjoining that wharf may be involved.
But in the present case we are not dealing, as were the
learned judges in the cases which have been cited to us, with
the condition of the bed of the river in itself dangerousthat is to say, which is such as necessarily to involve danger
to a vessel coming to use a wharf in the ordinary way; and
we are not dealing with a case of what I may call an abnormal obstruction in the river -the existence of some foreign
substance or some condition not arising from the ordinary
course of navigation."
We are remitted then to the consideration of the facts, and
as to them the rule is firmly established that successive decisions of two courts in the slame case, on questions of fact,
are not to be reversed, unless clearly shown to be erroneous. Towson v. _Moore, 173 U. S. 17; The Baltimore, 8 Wall.
377, 382; Die S. B. IMheeler, 20 Wall. 385, 386; The Richmond, 103 U. S. 540. And when the evidence is conflicting,
there being evidence to sustain the decree, this court will not
ordinarily interfere.
Tested by this rule we must assume on the record that the
vessel in question was chartered by appellants, through a ship

SMITH v. BUIRNETT.
Opinion of the Court.

broker duly authorized, for the purpose of being loaded with
a cargo of crushed stone, which would be about six hundred
tons, by appellants at their wharf, to be discharged at Fortress
Monroe; that the contract, which was oral, did not expressly
name the number of tons to be loaded, nor guarantee the
depth of water, nor the position of the vessel at the wharf,
nor embody as part thereof the representations alleged to
have been made in respect of the depth of the water; that
there was a ridge of rock in the berth assigned to the vessel
by appellants, projecting above the bottom of the river and
endangering her safety, even when only partially loaded;
and that the vessel, though stanch, strong and seaworthy, was
wrecked by grounding on that rock.
We also think that the conclusions of the Court of Appeals,
set forth in its opinion, that no ordinary skill or effort on
the part of the master or owners could have been exercised
effectively to save the vessel from total loss, and that the injury was not increased, nor the damages enhanced, by delay
in attempting to raise and remove the vessel, cannot reasonably be questioned; and that we are not required to pass on
the conflicting evidence in respect of the value of the vessel at the time of the injury. In other words, it must be
held that the cross libel was properly dismissed, and that the
amount of damages awarded is not open to inquiry.
As to knowledge or notice of the obstruction by appellants,
the evidence tended to show that they had been for some
years in the use of the wharf and of this particular berth;
that they had under lease perhaps two and a half miles of
river front, containing stone quarries, some of which they
were working; that their business was large, and that during
the year 1893, before the accident, they had loaded from fifteen to twenty vessels at the same place; that the capacity of
the crusher for loading vessels through the chute was from
one hundred and fifty to two hundred tons a day; that they
employed from one hundred and fifty to three hundred men,
and at times many more, and had bins into which they ran
crushed stone to be carried off in various ways. It further
appeared that in December, 1892, the two masted schooner

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Baird, carrying five hundred tons, and when loaded drawing
fourteen feet, grounded in the same berth, manifestly on a
rock, and that that fact and the character of her injuries were
known to appellants. There was much other evidence bearing on this point of knowledge or notice, which fully sustained the Court of Appeals in its conclusion that appellants
knew of the existence of the rock, and its dangerous nature;
or, if not, that absence of investigation amounted, under the
circumstances, to such negligence as to impute notice.
But the stress of the argument is that the master was guilty
of negligence which contributed to the injury, and chiefly in
not ascertaining the condition of the bottom of the berth
and taking precautions, as advised. Yet on this, as on other
branches of the case, the evidence was conflicting, and we
cannot say that the finding of the Court of Appeals that the
evidence failed to establish "that there was want of due care
on the part of the master, and a failure to exercise proper
supervision for the safety of the vessel, while she was moored
at the wharf for the purpose of being loaded," was clearly
erroneous. The master came to the berth on appellants' business; and there was evidence to the effect that the broker,
with whom the engagement was made, and appellants' foreman were both informed that the vessel would draw when
loaded from fourteen to fourteen and one half feet, and that
the master was assured by both that there was plenty of
water; that the berth had been dredged out to between fourteen and fifteen feet; and that there was fourteen feet "sure
at low water." The evidence also tended to show that the
foreman suggested on Friday to the master to make some
soundings for himself; that there might have been something
dropped over from a lighter that he did not know of; that
the captain did make soundings and found sufficient water as
the vessel then lay; that one of the appellants told the foreman "to tell the captain of the Tobin that he had better
sound around the vessel and make sure that it was laying all
right;" that the foreman "said the vessel was laying all right,
but he would tell the captain," as he afterwards reported he
had; that the captain sounded around the vessel on Saturday

YERKE v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

and discovered no dangerous condition; that the vessel did
not commence leaking until Sunday morning; and that the
master thereupon did all he could to save her. It does not
appear that the master was informed that the bottom was a
rock bottom, or that the fact was mentioned that the Baird
had previously got on an obstruction in the berth; and there
was nothing in what was said to lead the captain to suppose that there was danger provided there was water enough
around the vessel. He rather thought the vessel touched bottom on Saturday evening at low tide, but that, if so, did not
in itself constitute cause for alarm. In fact, the danger was
the existence of the rock in the middle of the berth under the
vessel. The evidence is voluminous in respect of the extent
and manner of the loading; of what passed between the parties; of the different soundings, and so on; but it is unnecessary to recapitulate it, as we are satisfied that no adequate
ground exists for disturbing the result reached.
At all events, we are unable to decide that the Court of
Appeals was not justified in holding on the evidence that
appellants were liable for negligence and the want of reasonable care, and that the master was free from contributory
negligence; and the decree must, therefore, be
Ajiared.

YERKE v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF OLAhiS.
No. 664. Submitted February 20, 1899.-Decided March 19, 1S99.

claims "on
Under the clause in the act of March 3, 1885, c. 341, regarding
comdepredations
of
account
on
States,
United
the
of
citizens
of
behalf
treaty
any
of
reason
by
Indians
of
mitted, chargeable against any tribe
received and
between such tribe and the United States," no claim can be
of a perbehalf
on
presented
is
considered by the Court of Claims which
was passed,
act
the
when
States
United
the
of
citizen
a
not
was
who
son
become such
but who, a foreigner, had then duly declared his intention to
citizen, and did subsequently become such.
When the language of a statute is clear, it needs no construction.

