OCTOBER TERMI, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

sustained by an independent non-Federal question, there is no
issue presented on the record which we have the power to review, and the cause is therefore
Dismissedfor wan of jurisdiction.

MEDBURY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Igo. 225. Argued March 1, 1899.--Decided April 3, 1899.

Under the act of June 16, 1880, c. 244, the Court of Claims has jurisdiction
of an action to recover an excess of payment for lands within the limits
of a railroad grant, which grant was, after the payment, forfeited by
act of Congress for nonconstruction of the road.
When in such case, by reason of the negligence of the railroad company
for many years to construct its road, Congress enacts a forfeiture of the
grant, the Government is under no obligation to repay the excess of
price paid by the purchaser of such lands in consequence of their being
within the limits of the forfeited grant.

THE appellant herein fied her petition in the Court of
Claims and sought to recover judgment by virtue of the
provisions of the act approved June 16, 1880, c. 244, 21
Stat. 287.
The Attorney General denied all the allegations of the
-petition, and the case was tried by the court upon the following agreed statement of facts: Congress made a grant of
lands to the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company by the
act of May 5, 1864, c. 80, 13 Stat. 66, which contained the
condition that the railroad should be built as therein provided.
After the grant the price of the lands reserved within its place
limits was raised from $1.25 per acre to $2.50 per acre under
the authority of law and by the direction of the Secretary of
the Interior. In 1872, one Samuel Mledbury made an entry
of more than seven thousand acres of land, within the place
limits of that grant and at the double minimum price of $2.50

MEDBURY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

per acre, and he died in 1874, leaving his widow, the appellant
herein, and a son and daughter, who subsequently conveyed to
the appellant all their interest in the claim herein made.
The conditions upon which the grant of lands was made to
that particular section of the proposed railroad were never
*complied with and the proposed railroad was never constructed, for which reason the grant was by the act of Congress of September 29, 1890, c. 1040, 26 Stat. 496, forfeited to
the United States. By reason of this failure to build the
railroad, and because of the forfeiture of the land grant by
Congress, the lands purchased by Medbury ceased to be
alternate sections of land within a railroad land grant, although they were such when he purchased them. Thereafter,
and on the 14th of November, 1894, Lucetta R. Medbury, as
the widow and heir of Samuel Medbury, made application to
the Secretary of the Interior for the repayment of the excess
of $1.25 per acre upon the seven thousand and odd acres of
land entered by her husband, the application being made
under the second section of the act of June 16, 1880, c. 244, 21
Stat. 287, and on October 5, 1897, the application was denied
by the Secretary. Upon these findings of fact the Court of
Claims decided, as a conclusion of law, that the petition should
be dismissed for want of jurisdiction. From that decision the
claimant has appealed to this court.
Mr. Russell Duane and MrM. Harvey Spalding for appellant.
.Mr. E. TF. Spalding was on the brief.
AM'. George Hines Gorman for appellees.
Attorney General Pradt was on his brief.

.Xr. Assistant

MR. JusTicE PEcKEAm, after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court.
Two questions arise in this case: (1) Whether the Court of
Claims had jurisdiction of the claim; and (2) if it had, what
is the true construction of the act of June 16, 1880, requiring
the repayment to the purchaser, of the excess of $1.25 per acre

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

where the land purchased has afterwards been found not to
be within the limits of a railroad land grant.
The ground upon which the learned Court of Claims decided
that it had no jurisdiction in the case was that the remedy
afforded by the act of 1880 to obtain the repayment of the
excess of the price was exclusive of any other. Thus if the
Secretary of the Interior erroneously construed the act and
refused payment in a case where the claimant was justly entitled thereto, under its provisions, the claimant would be
without redress, even though there were no dispute in regard
to the facts, and the decision of the Secretary was a plain
mistake in regard to the law. In this construction as to
the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims, we are unable to
agree.
The first section of the act of Tune 16, 1880, does not refer
to such a case as this. Section 2 of that act reads in full as
follows:
"In all cases where homestead or timber culture or desert
land entries or other entries of public lands have heretofore
or shall hereafter be cancelled for conflict, or where, from any
cause, the entry has been erroneously allowed and cannot be
confirmed, the Secretary of the Interior shall cause to be repaid to the person who made such entry, or to his heirs or
assigns, the fees and commissions, amount of purchase money
and excesses paid upon the same, upon the surrender of the
duplicate receipt and the execution of a proper relinquishment of all claims to said land, whenever such entry shall
have been duly cancelled by the Commissioner of the General
Land Office, and in all cases where parties have paid double
minimum pricefor land which has afterwards been found not
to be within the limits of a railroad land grant, the excess of
one dollar and twenty-five cents pver acre shall in like manner
be repaidto the purchaser thereof, or to his heirs or assigns."
Section 3 authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to make
the payments provided for in the act out of any money in the
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, and by section 4 the
Secretary is authorized to draw his warrant on the Treasury
in order to carry the provisions of the act into effect.

MEDBURY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

The portion of section 2, which is in italics, is the part of
the act upon which this claim is founded. The question is
whether the Court of Claims has jurisdiction in this case upon
the facts found.
By the act of March 3, 1887, c. 359, 24 Stat. 505, the Court
of Claims is given jurisdiction to hear and determine, among
other things, all claims founded upon any law of Congress.
As the claim in this case is founded upon the law of Congress
of 1880, it would seem that under this grant of jurisdiction
the Couit of Claims had power to hear and determine the
claim in question. The act of 1887 was not, however, the
first act giving jurisdiction to the Court of Claims in regard
to a law of Congress. It had the same power when the case
of NSichols v. United States, 7 Wall. 122, was decided, and a
question of jurisdiction arose in that case. It there appeared
that Nichols & Company were merchants in New York, and
they made in 1847 an importation from abroad upon which
duties'were imposed on the quantity invoiced. The importation consisted of casks of liquor, and a portion of the liquor
had leaked out during the voyage, and was thus lost, and consequently was never imported in fact into the United States.
Notwithstanding these circumstances Nichols & Company paid
the duties as imposed under the invoice, and without any deduction for leakage, and made no protest in the matter. An
act of Congress of February 26, 1845, provided that no action
should be maintained against any collector to recover duties
paid unless a protest had been made in writing and signed by
the claimant at the time of the payment. Where a protest
had been made the importer could thereafter bring a suit
against the collector for a recovery of the money so paid, and
the suit would be tried. in due course of law. The importers
having made no protest, and being therefore unable under
the provisions of the law to bring suit against the collector,
brought suit in the Court of Claims to recover back the overpayment, upon the ground that the court had power to hear
and determine all claims founded upon any law of Congress,
or upon any regulation of the executive department, or upon
any contract, express or implied, with the Government of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

United States. This court held that the Court of Claims had
no jurisdiction, and in the course of the opinion of the court,
which was delivered by Mr. Justice Davis, and in giving the
grounds upon which the court denied jurisdiction, it was said:
"Congress has from time to time passed laws on the subject
of the revenue, which not only provide for the manner of its
collection, but also point out a way in which errors can be corrected. These laws constitute a system which Congress has
provided for the benefit of those persons who complain of illegal assessments of taxes and illegal exactions of duties. In
the administration of the tariff laws, as we have seen, the Secretary of the Treasury decides what is due on a specific importation of goods, but if the importer is dissatisfied with this
decision, he can contest the question in a suit against the collector, if, before he pays the duties, he tells the officers of the
law, in writing, why he objects to their payment."
And again the court said:
"Can it be supposed that Congress, after having carefully
constructed a revenue system, with ample provisions to redress
wrong, intended to give to the taxpayer and importer a further and different remedy ? The mischiefs that would result,
if the aggrieved party could disregard the provisions in the
system designed expressly for his security and benefit, and sue
at any time in the Court of Claims, forbid the idea that Congress intended to allow any other modes to redress a supposed
wrong in the operation of the revenue laws, than such as are
particularly given by those laws."
The system spoken of in the opinion provided a general
scheme for the collection of the revenue, and also provided
adequate means for the correction of errors by a resort to a
suit in a court of law prosecuted in the ordinary way. While
it gave rights, it provided a special but full and ample remedy
for their infringement. It certainly could never be presumed
that Congress, while thus furnishing an adequate method for
the correction of errors, intended that the party aggrieved
might refuse to follow such remedy and resort to some other
and different mode of relief. It is quite plain that the remedy
thus specially indicated was exclusive, and that the act giving

MEDBURY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction to the Court of Claims had no application. The
principle asserted in the case cited has no application to this
case.
Although the right to recover back the excess of payment
in this proceeding is based upon the statute of 1880, we do not
think it comes within the principle of those cases which hold
that where a liability and a remedy are created by the same
statute, the remedy thus provided is special and exclusive. In
this case it is not a right and a remedy created by the same
statute. The statute creates the right to have repayment under
the facts therein stated, but it gives no remedy for a refusal
on the part of the Secretary to comply with its provisions.
The person has the right under the act to obtain a warrant
from the Secretary of the Interior for the repayment of the
excess therein mentioned, and for the purpose of obtaining it
he must make his application and prove the facts which the
statute provides, and then the Secretary is to draw his warrant on the Treasury. This constitutes the right of the appellant. Applying for the warrant is not a remedy. When application for repayment is made there is nothing to remedy.
He has not been wronged. A right of repayment of money
theretofore paid has been given by the act, but it is only under
the act that the right exists, and that right is to have the Secretary in a proper case issue his warrant in payment of the
claim, and until he refuses to do so, no wrong is done and no
case for a remedy is presented. After the refusal, the question
then arises as to the remedy, and you look in vain for any in
the act itself. We cannot suppose that Congress intended in
such case to make the decision of the Secretary final when it
was made on undisputed facts. If not, then there is a remedy
in the Court of Claims, for none is given in the act which
creates the right. The procedure for obtaining the repayment
as provided for in the act must be followed, and when the
application is erroneously refused, the party wronged has his
remedy, but that remedy is not furnished by the same statute
which gives him the right.
If there were any disputed questions of fact before the Secretary his decision in regard to those matters would probably
VOL. CLxXn-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

be conclusive, and would not be reviewed in any court. But
where, as in this case, there is no disputed question of fact, and
the decision turns exclusively upon the proper construction of
the act of Congress, the decision of the Secretary refusing to
make the payment is not final, and the Court of Claims has
jurisdiction of such a case.
We have been referred to no case in this court which holds
views contrary to those herein presented. We do not mean
by this decision to overrule or to throw doubt upon the general principle that where a special right is given by statute,
and in that statute a special remedy for its violation is provided, that in such case the statutory remedy is the only one,
but we hold that such principle has no application to this particular statute, because the statute does not, in our judgment,
within the meaning of the principle mentioned, furnish a remedy for a refusal to grant the right given by the statute.
This case bears more resemblance to United States v. Kaufman, 96 U. S. 567, and United States v. Savings Bank, 104:
U. S. 728, than it does to Nichols v. United States, 7 Wall.
122.
In United States v. American Tobacco Company, 166 U. S.
468, the statute permitted the holder of stamps which he had
paid for and not used, and which were spoiled or destroyed,
etc., to apply to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue to redeem or make allowance for such stamps. Application was
so made, but the Commissioner refused to redeem or make the
allowance because of other facts stated in the case. The
applicant filed his petition in the Court of Claims, and that
court gave him judgment which was here affirmed. It is true
that no question of jurisdiction was raised, but if the case at
bar was properly decided by the court below, the court in that
case had no jurisdiction, because the right to obtain redemption or payment was given by the same statute which provided
the procedure to secure it, and the so-called remedy would
have been exclusive in that case, as it is held to be exclusive
in this. The party had to apply to the Commissioner and to
comply with regulations, etc., all of which was but a part of
the right which was granted, and when the Commissioner

MIEDBURY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

erroneously refused to make the redemption as provided for
by the statute, the claimant, founding his claim upon a law of
Congress, pursued his only remedy in the Court of Claims,
and obtained it without any question of jurisdiction. We
think the court had jurisdiction in that case, and that it also
existed in this.
We come now to the question as to the true construction of
the act itself, and whether it is applicable to the facts in this
case.
It is conceded by the appellant that at the time the entry
was made and the double minimum price paid for the lands,
they were within the place limits of the grant to the Wisconsin Central Railroad. The payment therefore was a proper
payment, and necessary to have been made in order to obtain
the lands. There was no mistake or misunderstanding of the
facts at the time the entry was made. It was made eight
years after the passage of the land grant by Congress, March
5, 1864, and at the time the payment was made the railroad
'had not been built. The Government of course was no guarantor that the railroad ever would be built, and the party thus
ihaking an entry of lands within the place limits of a railroad
grant necessarily took his chances of the future building of
the road. That it was not certain to be built was sufficiently
apparent at the time of the entry, for eight years had then
elapsed, and no road had been built at that time. It was not
until eighteen years after the entry, viz., in 1890, that the
Government finally forfeited the lands because of the failure
of the company to build the road. With reference to these
facts, we think that the construction placed upon the act of
1880 by the Secretary of the Interior is the correct one.
The Secretary decided that the act does not apply to a case
such as this, where at the time of the entry the lands were
within the limits of the railroad land grant, and so continued
for eighteen years, and where it was only by the failure of the
railroad company to build the road and the forfeiture of the
land grant by the Government consequent upon such failure
that the land then ceased to be within such limits.
Whatever may have been the reason of Congress in making

OCTOBER TER-M, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

the charge of $2.50 per acre the minimum price for alternate
sections along the line of railroads within the place limits of
the grant, the meaning of the act of 1880 is not in anywise
affected thereby. That act plainly referred to the case of a
mistake in location at the time when the entry was made.
Where the parties supposed that the land entered was within
the limits of the land grant, and where subsequently it is discovered that the lands were not within those limits, that a
mistake had been made, and that the party had not obtained
the lands which he thought he kvas obtaining by virtue of his
entry, then the act of 1880 applies.
Here no mistake whatever has been made. The lands were
within the limits of the land grant at the time of the entry,
and so remained for many years and up to the time of the act
of forfeiture by Congress. Whether the railroad would fulfil
its obligations and in good time build its road through the
land grant was a matter which the future alone could determine, was a matter which the entryman could judge of as
well as the Government, and was a matter in regard to which
the Government gave no guaranty, express or implied. Hence,
when in subsequent years the company failed to build its railroad within the limits of the land grant at this point, and the
same was forfeited, the Government was under no obligations
whatever by virtue of the act of 1880 or otherwise to repay
the difference in price for these lands.
While we agree with the Court of Claims in the dismissal
of the petition, it is for a different reason. The petition
should have been dismissed upon the merits, but we do not
think it necessary to reverse the judgment on that account,
as we can modify it so that it shall provide for dismissing the
petition on that ground.
Judgment modified, and as modifled affirmed.

