REMINGTON PAPER COMPANY v. WATSON.

443

Opinion of the Court.

REMINGTON PAPER COMPANY ,v. WATSON.
OF LOUISIAiNA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE
No. 146. Argued January IT, 18, 1899.-

Decided March 13, 1899.

plaintiff in error,
On the facts stated in the opinion, the court holds that the
to litigate
sought
motion,
own
its
of
having,
a New York corporation,
the opporits rights in a state court of Louisiana, and having been given
the litithat
fact
the
of
out
arises
question
Federal
no
so,
tunity to do
a Fedof
decision
the
without
gation there resulted unsuccessfully, and
Eusti
following
jurisdiction;
court
this
give
might
which
eral question
its
based
has
court
state
a
when
v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 370, in holding that
to dismiss
is
here
course
logical
the
question,
state
or
local
a
on
decision
the writ of error.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.Xr.-. T. 7Jferrick for plaintiff in error.
hies filed a brief for same.

_Mr. Albert 'oor-

3Xr. Alexander Porter.Xorse for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.
It is objected that the record presents no Federal question.
In an action brought in the civil district court for the parish
of Orleans, State of Louisiana, John Watson, one of the defendants in error, was appointed, on the 17th day of May, 1893,
receiver of the property and assets of the Louisiana Printing
and Publishing Company, a corporation created under the laws
of the State of Louisiana. As such receiver he took possession
of such assets and property. There was no appeal taken from
the order of appointment.
The plaintiff in error, a corporation created under the laws
of New York, and having its residence in that State, brought
an action in the United States Circuit Court for the District
of Louisiana against the Louisiana Printing and Publishing
Company, to recover $3863.55, for paper furnished the company, and sued out writs of sequestration and attachment, by

OCTOBER TER-A, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

authority of which, on the 29th day of May, 1893, the United
States marshal seized certain property of the company and
took the same from the possession of Watson.
On Mlay 30, 1893, Watson as receiver filed a motion in said
Circuit Court to quash the attachment and sequestration sued
out, "and said rule or motion concluded with an order which
the mover in the rule desired the court to adopt ;" and thereupon the judge of the court made the following order:
"Let this rule be filed, and let the Remington Paper Company, through their attorneys, Merrick & Merrick, show cause
on Thursday, June 1, at 11 A.M., why the above motion should
not be granted."
To which motion the Remington Paper Company filed the
following:
"The plaintiff in this case, for the purpose only of objection
to the regularity of the rule taken by John W. Watson, calling himself receiver, by way of exception, says:
"That said mover as a pretended receiver cannot interfere
in the progress of this suit in the informal and summary manner attempted by him in his said rule, nor has be any right to
be heard to demand by the judgment of this court anything
of this court without coming into court by regular process and
proceedings and in the mode allowed by law, wherein the plaintiff will be entitled to a trial of questions of law and fact in
the mode and manner guaranteed by the Constitution and prescribed by law.
"Wherefore this plaintiff says that this rule taken by said
John W. Watson should and ought to be dismissed at the cost
of said mover.
"MrRIcK & MER cK, Attys.

"And in the event the foregoing exception to said rule is
overruled and this plaintiff is required by your honorable court
to answer the same, and not otherwise, this plaintiff denies
the allegations contained in said rule and denies that said John
W. Vatson, the pretended receiver, has any legal right or authority under the ex par.te proceeding on which he relies to
take possession of the property attached in this case nor to

REMINGTON PAPER COMPANY v. WATSON.

445

Opinion of the Court.

hinder or delay your petitioner from collecting its just debt
against said defendant.
"MEnliIOX & MERRtICK, Att'ys.")
The plaintiff prayed the court to decide the exception to
said rule before proceeding further or hearing any testimony
on the rule taken.
The court, however, decided to hear the testimony on the
allegations of said rule, and after hearing the same, on the 6th
day of June, 1893, made the following order:
"This cause having been heard and submitted upon a rule
taken by John W. Watson, appointed a receiver of the defendant by the civil district court for the parish of Orleans, to
set aside the writs of attachment and sequestration issued in
this cause, and upon the exception thereto filed by the plaintiff,
and the same having been considered by the court, it is now
ordered, for the reasons assigned in the written opinion on file,
that the marshal restore the property seized in this cause
under the writs of attachment and sequestration to John W.
Watson, receiver, unless within five days the plaintiff applies
for and ultimately receives authority from the civil district
court which appointed Watson or from the appellate court to
hold same under said writs."
The opinion of the court referred to in the order recites that
Watson had been "appointed receiver upon a petition of a
creditor and on the intervention of the attorney general;
which original and intervening petitions averred that all the
officers of the defendant corporation had resigned and that in
fact it was a vacant corporation." It was further'said:
"I do not think this court can deal at all with the alleged
irregularity in the appointment of the receiver, such as the alleged want of an execution, etc., preceding the appointment.
It appearing to this court that a court of concurrent jurisdiction has appointed a receiver who was in actual possession,
this court has no right to attempt to dispossess him. All the
matter as to irregularity of the appointment must be dealt
with by the court that appointed. I understand the doctrine of the comity of courts to be this -that where a court

44:6

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

has jurisdiction of a cause and property and through its proper
officer is in possession, it is the duty of all other courts to refrain altogether from the attempt to take that property into
possession except by permission of the court in possession. It
is not a question of the validity of process, but a question of
public order, and the rule of comity is based upon the duty of
courts to abstain from anything that might lead to violence.
There having been a receiver appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction and he being in possession of the property
attempted to be seized by the marshal, and which was in fact
seized, I think the duty of this court is to restore the property
practically to the situation in which it was when the property
was interfered with by the marshal."
The bill of exceptions signed by the Circuit Judge shows that
Watson was in possession of the property, engaged in making
an inventory of it when it was seized by the marshal, and had
taken the oath of office but had filed no bond.
On the 9th day of June, 1893, three days after the order of
the Circuit Court, the Remington Company filed in the civil
district court for the parish of Orleans a petition and action of
nullity and for damages under the laws of the State against
Watson, receiver, Pope, petitioning creditor, and the Louisiana
Printing and Publishing Company.
The petition alleged the indebtedness of the latter company
to petitioner, the action by the latter in the United States
Circuit Court, the attachment of property, the motion of Watson as hereinbefore stated, and the ruling and order of the
court thereon; that the effect thereof will be to prevent the
execution of any judgment rendered, and that "Watson was
without right to stand in the way of a just debt because he
had given no bond at the date of the seizure of property under
the attachment nor complied with the order of the court, nor
had proceedings been had to perfect his appointment or to
give him the right to control the property or to prevent any
suit from being brought or any court from subjecting the
property of said defendant by due course of law to the payment of its debts, and the conduct of the said Watson, Frank
H. Pope and those confederating with them in attempting to

REMINGTON PAPER COMPANY v. WATSON.

447

Opinion of the Court.

screen the property from payment of debts was collusive and
a constructive fraud upon petitioner and a violation of its
rights under the laws and Constitution of the United States
of America." That the order appointing him was null and
void because obtained "upon the collusive petition of Frank
H. Pope without citation to any one, without oath or affidavit
or any proof and without contest." It was further alleged
that the so-called intervention of the attorney general did
not cure the nullity of the proceedings of Pope and Watson,
and that the State was without authority to intrude itself in
that manner into the controversies of private persons. There
was a prayer for citation and that the order appointing Watson receiver be declared as against petitioner null and void
and of no effect, and the same be ineffectual as a bar to said
attachment or sequestration or other proceedings on the part
of the petitioner in the Circuit Court of the United States,
and that said Watson and Pope be condemned, as in solido
or otherwise, to pay petitioner the sum of $3863.55 damages
caused it by the obstruction of its proceedings in the Circuit
Court, and for general relief.
The petition was subsequently amended, amplifying somewhat the charges of illegality in Watson's appointment, and
alleging with more detail his action in the Circuit Court, and
averring "that said exparte order of this court, dated the 17th
day of May, 1893, purporting to appoint John W. Watson
receiver of the Louisiana Printing and Publishing Company,
Limited, was obtained in violation of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution of the United States,
in this, that said decree was obtained without due process of
law, it being ex parte and without affidavits, bond or proof, as
more at large alleged in the original petition, and the said
unconstitutional and void order and decree is set up and alleged by the defendants as a bar and a defence to prevent
your petitioner from recovering and having its said just and
valid debt from its said debtor, the said Louisiana Printing
and Publishing Company, Limited, and thus depriving petitioner of its claim duly secured by due and legal process of
law on the property of its said debtor, and seized under said

OCTOBER TERMA,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

writs from said Circuit Court of the United States, and said defendants seek through said void exparte order of the 17th day
of May, 1893, to effect the transfer and of the possession
and property of said Louisiana Printing and Publishing Company under the seizure of petitioner under its writs to said
John W. Watson, thereby screening the same from ordinary
and legal pursuits of creditors in the modes pointed out by
law, in violation of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments of
the Constitution of the United States."
To the petition Watson answered, denying all and singular its allegations except his appointment as receiver, and
"assuming the attitude of plaintiff in reconvention," alleged
that the Remington Paper Company was a non-resident corporation, and that by its "unlawful and unwarranted seizure
of the property of said Louisiana Printing and Publishing
Company, Limited, which seizure has been released, said
Remington Paper Company has damaged the creditors of
said Louisiana Printing and Publishing Company, Limited,
for whose benefit ut universi this reconventional demand is
now prosecuted."
The damages were itemized and alleged to have amounted
to $3847.15.
The answer concluded as follows:
"Wherefore said John W. Watson prays that said plaintiff's petition be dismissed; that he be quieted in his position
as receiver; that his appointment be ratified and confirmed as
prayed for by said Louisiana Printing and Publishing Company and by a large majority of its stockholders and its board
of directors, and that, as the representative of the creditors of
said company, he have judgment on his reconventional demand
against plaintiff in the sum of $384:7.15 and all costs of this suit."
Upon the hearing judgment was rendered as follows:
"1st. In favor of John W. Watson and Frank H. Pope,
rejecting and dismissing the suit of the Remington Paper
Company for damages.
"2d. That the demand of the Remington Paper Company
against John W. Watson, Frank H. Pope and the Louisiana
Printing and Publishing Company, represented by John W.

REMINGTON PAPER COMPANY v. WATSON.

449

Opinion of the .Court.

Watson, receiver, of the nullity of the order appointing said
Watson receiver, etc., be also rejected and dismissed, and that
said appointment and order be maintained.
"3d. That the reconventional demand for money claimed
by Watson as receiver herein be dismissed as of non suit, and
that the Remington Paper Company be condemned to pay all
costs of this suit."
The Supreme Court affirmed the judgment (49 La. Ann.
1296) and the case was brought here.
The-Supreme Court, after reciting the proceedings taken by
the respective parties and stating their contentions, said that
the record showed that the Remington Company did not comply with the order of the United States Circuit Court, "but,
on the contrary, this action of nullity and claim for damages
was resorted to instead of such an application," and it was
held that the action depended necessarily upon a claim for
damages, and that the company had no such claim. It was
further said:
"Addressing ourselves to the question of damages, we are
of opinion that the plaintiff was plainly at fault in not employing the proper means to protect its own rights, (1) first, because it used no effort to avail itself of the permission granted
by the Circuit Court whereby the seizure might have been retained on the property ; (2) second, because it took no means
or proceedings looking to the protection and preservation of
its alleged vendors' lien upon the property after it had passed
into the custody and control of the receiver, either by injunction against a sale by the receiver or a third opposition claiming the proceeds of sale, under a separate appraisement and
sale.
"C
In our view, such measures could have been easily resorted
to on the part of the plaintiff, without prejudice to this or its
Circuit Court suit, and, failing in this, an insurmountable obstacle has been raised to its claim for damages.
"For surely the plaintiff cannot be heard to say that Watson and Pope have perpetrated upon it damages resulting from
a loss and injury it has occasioned through its own fault.
"The plaintiff's recourse against property stricken by a venVOL. CLXXI-29

OCTOBER TERMI,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

dor's lien was just as efficacious against it in the hands of the
receiver as it was in that of the marshal; and, had it made
proper and seasonable application to the judge a quo, possibly
he might have permitted the marshal to retain in his possesthe
sion the property seized under the writ of attachment in
effort
an
such
nugatory
and
vain
Circuit Court. However
may have proven, it was none the less its duty to have made
the effort at least.
"Surely the receiver cannot be said to have committed a
wrong or trespass upon the plaintiff's rights by advertising and
making a sale of corporate assets in pursuance of an order of
court to pay debts, especially when such sale was neither enjoined nor opposed by it.
" Presumably the proceeds of the sale are yet in the hands
of the receiver for distribution according to law, and plaintiff
can exercise its rights thereon.
"In our opinion, this is not a case in which we are called
upon to examine and scrutinize the legality of the appointment of a receiver, for the reason that the complaining creditor has not suffered any injury thereby and is itself seeking a
preference.
"We think the ends of justice would be best subserved by
preserving and maintaining the status quo."
The assignments of error are somewhat involved in statement, but they are based on the ground that the order
appointing W atson receiver was null and void because the ownership of property of the Louisiana Printing and Publishing
Company, the debtor of plaintiff, "could not be divested
to the prejudice of creditors on an arbitrary order without
due process of law," and the use of such order to obtain the
ruling of the United States Circuit Court, which directed the
United States marshal to restore to him the property attached,
deprived the plaintiff in error of a right without due process
of law, and that therefore the judgment of the lower court
was erroneous.
The appointment of a receiver to take possession of the property of an insolvent corporation upon the petition of a creditor
is certainly "due process." This, of course, is not denied, but

REMINGTON PAPER COMPA.NY v. WATSON.

451

Opinion of the Court.

the invalidity of the order of appointment is asserted because
it was made exparte, and because Watson had not fully qualified. It is hence argued that the appointment was a nullity
- constituted "no legal obstacle" to the proceedings in the
United States Circuit Court.
This view was not entertained by that court, but, on motion
of Watson, the court ordered the property which had been
attached restored to him and remitted the plaintiff (plaintiff
in error here) to the state court. Its order was "that the
marshal restore the property seized in this court under the
writs of attachment and sequestration to John W. Watson,
receiver, unless within five days the plaintiff applies for and
ultimately receives authority from the civil district court
which appointed Watson or from the appellate court to hold
same under said writs." If this was error its review cannot
be had on this record.
The plaintiff did not apply to "the civil district court which
appointed Watson," the Supreme Court in its opinion says, but
brought an action for nullity of the order of appointment
under the code of the State (Code of Practice of Louisiana,
Art. 601 et seq.) and for damages.
The action was regularly proceeded with, and was determined against plaintiff in error on grounds which did not
involve Federal questions, and therefore it is not within our
power to review the judgment of the Supreme Court of the
State.
The plaintiff in error thus sought in the state court, and was
given opportunity, to ligitate the rights claimed by it, and it
cannot complain that the guarantees of the Constitution of
the United States were denied because the litigation did not
result successfully. Central land Co. v. laidley, 159 U. S.
103, 112; Walker v. Sauvinet, 92 U. S.90; Head v. Amoskeag
-ManufacturingCo., 113 U. S.9, 26; Morley v. Lake Shore &c.
Railway Co., 146 U. S.162, 171; Bergmann v. Backer, 157
U. S.655.
It follows that this writ of error cannot be maintained.
The rule was announced in Eustis v. Bolles, 150 U. S.361,
370, "that when we find it unnecessary to decide any Federal

OCTOBER TERIi, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

question, and when the state court has based its decision on a
local or state question, our logical course is to dismiss the writ
of error." See also FortSmith Railway v. Merriam, 156 U. S.
478; -Hamblin v. Western Land Co., 147 U. S. 531; Castillo
v. -lMconnico, 168 U. S. 674.
1V'it of error dismissed.
MiR. JUSTICE WHITE took no part in this decision.

Ex parte HENRY WARD.
ORIGINAL.
No number.

Submitted February 20, 1899. -Decided

'March 20, 1899.

Where a court has jurisdiction of an offence and of the accused, and the proceedings are otherwise regular, a conviction is lawful although the judge
holding the court may be only an officer de facto; and the validity of the
title of such judge to the office, or his right to exercise the judicial functions, cannot be determined on a writ of habeas corus ; this rule is well
settled, and is applicable to this case.
The title of a person acting with color of authority, even if he be not a
good officer in point of law, cannot be collaterally attacked.

THIS was an application for leave to file a petition for a writ
of habeas corpus. The case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. . C Garland and Mr.
titioner.

.

WF right, Jr., for the pe-

No one opposing.
MRR.
court.

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

Ward was tried and found guilty before Edward R. M[eek,
Judge of the District Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Texas, for "having in his possession
counterfeit moulds," and was sentenced October 22, 1898, to

