GUNNISON COUNTY COMMISSIONERS v. ROLLINS.

255

Counsel for Rollins.

was concluded, should on its own motion have dismissed the
suit. The judgment of the Circuit Court and the judgment of
the Circuit Court of Appeals must both be
Reversed and the cause remanded for a new trial and for
furtherproceedings consistent with this opinion, and it is
so ordered.

GUNNISON COUNTY COMMISSIONERS v. ROLLINS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 178. Argued December 15, 16, 1898. -Decided

February 20, 1899.

Although the bill of exceptions in this case does not state, in so many
words, that it contains all the evidence, it sufficiently appears that it
does contain all, and this court can inquire on this record whether the
Circuit Court erred in giving a peremptory instruction for the defendant.
The recitals in the bonds of Gunnison County, the coupons of which are in
suit in this case, that they were "issued by the Board of County Commissioners of said Gunnison County in exchange, at par, for valid floating indebtedness of the said county outstanding prior to September 2,
1882, under and by virtue of and in full conformity with the provisions
of an act of the general assembly of the State of Colorado, entitled
' An act to enable the several counties of the State to fund their floating
indebtedness,' approved February 21, 1881; 'that all the requirements
of law have been fully complied with by the proper officers in the issuing
of this bond;' that the total amount of the issue does not exceed the
limit prescribed by the constitution of the State of Colorado, and that
this issue of bonds has been authorized by a vote of a majority of the
duly qualified electors of the said county of Gunnison, voting on the
question at a general election duly held in said county on the seventh day
of November, A.D. 1882," estop the county from asserting, against a
bonafide holder for value, that the bond so issued created an indebtedness
in excess of the limit prescribed by the constitution of Colorado.
This case is controlled by the judgment in Chaffee County v. Potter, 142 U. S.
355, which the court declines to overrule.
The plaintiff corporation was a bonafide holder, when this suit was brought,
of some of the bonds sued for in it.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

-Yr. John F. Dillon and -r.

Edmund F. Richardson for

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

IRollins.

Mr. Harry Hubbard and .Mr. John i. Dillon were

on their brief.
'. CharlesS. Thomas for Gunnison County Commissioners.
C. Brown, M'. TV. H. Bryant and -fr. H. 11. lee
Thomas
Mr.
were on his brief.
MR. JusTIoC

HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought by E. I. Rollins & Sons, a corporation of New Hampshire, to obtain a judgment against the
Board of Commissioners of Gunnison County, Colorado, a
municipal corporation of that State, for the amount of certain coupons of bonds issued by the defendant in 1882. At
the close of the evidence the defendant requested a peremptory instruction in its behalf. The Circuit Court charged the
jury at some length, but concluded with a direction to find a
verdict for the defendant, which was done, and a judgment
in its favor was entered. That judgment was reversed in the
Circuit Court of Appeals, and the case is here upon writ of
certiorari. 49 U. S. App. 399.
The case made by the complaint is as follows:
By the laws of Colorado Boards of County Commissioners
were authorized to examine, allow and settle all accounts
against their respective counties, and to issue county warrants
therefor; to build and keep in repair the county buildings, to
insure the same, and to provide suitable rooms for county
purposes; and to represent the county and have the care of
county property and the management of the business and
concerns of the county in all cases where the law did not
otherwise provide.
On the 1st day of December, 1882, the defendant Board
caused to be made and executed certain bonds acknowledging
the county of Gunnison to be indebted and promising to pay
- or bearer the sum therein named, for value received,
to
redeemable at the pleasure of the county after ten years, and
absolutely due and payable twenty years after date, at the
office of the county treasurer, with interest at eight per cent

GUNNISON COUNTY COMMISSIONERS v. ROLLINS.

257

Opinion of the Court.

per annum, payable semi-annually on the first days of M arch
and September in each year at the county treasurer's office,
or at the Chase National Bank in the city of New York, at
the option of the holder, upon the presentation and surrender
of the annexed coupons as they severally became due.
Each bond contained this recital: "This bond is issued by
the Board of County Commissioners of said Gunnison County
in exchange, at par, for valid floating indebtedness of the said
county outstanding prior to September 2, 1882, under and by
virtue of and in full conformity with the provisions of an act
of the general assembly of the State of Colorado, entitled
'An act to enable the several counties of the State to fund
their floating indebtedness,' approved February 21, 1881; and
it is hereby certified that all the requirements of law haver
been fully complied with by the proper officers in the issuingof this bond. It is further certified that the total amount of
this issue does not exceed the limit prescribed by the constitution of the State of Colorado, and that this issue of bonds has
been authorized by a vote of a majority of the duly qualified
electors of the said county of Gunnison, voting on the question at a general election duly held in said county on the
seventh day of November, A. D. 1882. The bonds of this
issue are comprised in three series, designated 'A,' 'B' and
' C' respectively, the bonds of series 'A' being for the sum
of one thousand dollars each, those of series 'B' for the sum
of five hundred dollars each and those of series ' C' for the
sum of one hundred dollars each. This bond is one of series
'A.' The faith and credit of the county of Gunnison are
hereby pledged for the punctual payment of the principal and
interest of this bond."
To each bond were attached coupons for the semi-annual
interest, signed by the county treasurer.
On the first day of December, 1882, for the bonds of the
county with coupons attached as above specified, the defendant
Board made an exchange with the parties then holding county
warrants which before that time in accordance with the statutes in such case made and provided had been issued to them
in settlement of claims presented by them against the county.
VOL. CLXXIII-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

In every case when warrants were presented they were exchanged for the bonds of the county at par for their face and
interest. In each case the blanks were filled out with the
name of the party receiving the bonds or exchanging the
warrants, and the blank for the place of payment filled in as
the banking house of the Chase National Bank in the city of
New York. Thereupon the bonds were signed by the chairman of the Board of County Commissioners, countersigned
by the county treasurer and attested by the county clerk
with the seal of the county; and the coupons attached were
also filled out, stating the place of payment to be in the city
of New York at the banking house of the Chase National
Bank, and stating also the number of the funding bond and
the series to which it was attached.
The issue of bonds as above set forth was authorized by a
vote of the qualified electors to be exchanged for warrants,
and the amount thereof was spread upon the records of the
county as provided for by the act of February 21, 1881, entitled "An act to enable the several counties of the State to
fund their floating indebtedness." In all other respects the
terms and conditions of the act were fully complied with.
The bonds were duly registered in the office of the auditor of
the State.
In every case where bonds were issued and delivered to the
payee or to any person for him, the parties received them in
exchange for warrants, the amount of the bonds being the
same as the amount of the warrants and interest thereon that
had theretofore been issued by the county.
From the 1st day of December, 1882, and up until the 1st
day of March, 1886, the county paid the interest on the bonds
semi-annually in accordance with their terms and of the coupons attached to them.
The defendant Board made default in the payment of interest due on the first day of September, 1886, and made like
default thereafter up to and including September 1, 1892.
The plaintiff was the holder and owner of coupons formerly
attached to and belonging to certain bonds of the above issue.
It asked judgment for the aggregate amount of the principal

GUNNISON COUNTY COMMISSIONERS v. ROLLINS.

259

Opinion of the Court.

of the coupons, with interest on the -amount of each coupon
as it became due.
The answer of the county contained a general denial of
all the allegations of the complaint, and in addition set out
eleven affirmative defences, which were chiefly based upon
the alleged fact that the county, in issuing the bonds set forth
in the complaint, had attempted to incur an indebtedness not
authorized by the constitution of Colorado or by the statute
referred to in the bonds.
The provision of the constitution of Colorado prescribing
the extent to which counties may become indebted and to
which the bonds referred, is as follows:
"No county shall contract any debt by loan in any form,
except for the purpose of erecting necessary public buildings,
making or repairing public roads and bridges; and such indebtedness contracted in any one year shall not exceed the
rates upon taxable property in such county, following, to wit:
Counties in which the assessed valuation of taxable property
shall exceed five millons of dollars, one dollar and fifty cents
on each thousand dollars thereof. Counties in which such
valuation shall be less than five millions of dollars, three dollars on each thousand dollars thereof. And the aggregate
amount of indebtedness of any county for all purposes, exclusive of debts contracted before the adoption of this constitution, shall not at any time exceed twice the amount above
herein limited, unless when in manner provided by law, the
question of incurring debt shall, at a general election, be
submitted to such of the qualified electors of such county
as in the year last preceding such election shall have paid
a tax upon property assessed to them in such county, and a
majority of those voting thereon shall vote in favor of incurring the debt; but the bonds, if any be issued therefor,
shall not run less than ten years, and the aggregate amount
of debt so contracted shall not at any time exceed twice the
rate upon the valuation last herein mentioned; provided
that this section shall not apply to counties having a valuation of less than one million of dollars." Laws of Colorado,
1877, p. 62.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

The act of February 21, 1881, referred to in the bonds in
question, contains among other provisions the following:
"ยง 1. It shall be the duty of the county commissioners of
any county having a floating indebtedness exceeding ten thousand dollars, upon the petition of fifty of the electors of said
cofinties [county] who shall have paid taxes upon property
assessed to them in said county in the preceding year, to publish for the period of thirty days, in a newspaper published
within said county, a notice requesting the holders of the
warrants of such county to submit, in writing, to the board of
county commissioners, within thirty days from the date of
the first publication of such notice, a statement of the amount
of the warrants of such county, which they will exchange at
par, and accrued interest, for the bonds of such county, to be
issued under the provisions of this act, taking such bonds at
par. It shall be the duty of such board of county commissioners at the next general election occurring after the expiration of thirty days from the date of the first publication of
the notice aforementioned, upon the petition of fifty of the
electors of such county who shall have paid taxes upon property assessed to them in said county in the preceding year, to
submit to the vote of the qualified electors of such county who
shall have paid taxes on property assessed to them in said
county in the preceding year, the question whether the board
of county commissioners shall issue bonds of such county under
the provisions of this act, in exchange at par for the warrants
of such county issued prior to the date of the first publication
of the aforesaid notice; or they may submit such question at
a special election, which they are hereby empowered to call
for that purpose at any time after the expiration of thirty days
from the date of the first publication of the notice aforementioned, on the petition of fifty qualified electors as aforesaid;
and they shall publish for the period of at least thirty days
immediately preceding such general or special election in some
newspaper published within such county, a notice that such
question will be submitted to the duly qualified electors as
aforesaid, at such election. The county treasurer of such
county shall make out and cause to be delivered to the judges

GUNNISON COUNTY COMMISSIONERS v. ROLLINS.

261

Opinion of the Court.

of election in each election precinct in the county, prior to the
said election, a certified list of the taxpayers in such county
who shall have paid taxes upon property assessed to them in
such county in the preceding year; and no person shall vote
upon the question of the funding of the county indebtedness,
unless his name shall appear upon such list, nor unless he shall
have paid all county taxes assessed against him in such county
in the preceding year. If a majority of the votes lawfully
cast upon the question of such funding of the floating county
indebtedness shall be for the funding of such indebtedness, the
board of county commissioners may issue to any person or corporation holding any county warrant or warrants, issued prior
to the date of the first publication of the aforementioned notice,
coupon bonds of such county in exchange therefor, at par. No
bonds shall be issued of less denomination than one hundred
dollars, and if issued for a greater amount, then for some multiple of that sum, and the rate of interest shall not exceed eight
per cent per annum. " The interest to be paid semi-annually at
the office of the county treasurer, or in the city of New York,
at the option of the holders thereof. Such bonds to be payable
at the pleasure of the county after ten years from the date of
their issuance, but absolutely due and payable twenty years
after date of issue. The whole amount of bonds issued under
this act shall not exceed the sum -of the county indebtedness
at the date of the first publication of the aforementioned
notice, and the amount shall be determined by the county
commissioners, and a certificate made of the same, and made
a part of the records of the county; and any bond issued in
excess of said sum shall be null and void; and all bonds issued
under the provisions of this act shall be registered in the office
of the state auditor, to whom a fee of ten cents shall be paid
for recording each bond." Laws of Colorado, 1881, pp. 85,
86, 87.
1. The Circuit Court of Appeals held that the bill of exceptions did not purport to contain all the evidence adduced at
the trial, and for that reason it did not consider the question
whether error was committed in directing the jury to find for
the defendant. We are of opinion that the bill of exceptions.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

should be taken as containing all the evidence. It appears
that as soon as the jury was sworn to try the issues in the
cause, "the complainants to sustain the issues on their part
offered the following oral and documentary evidence." Then
follow many pages of testimony on the part of the plaintiffs,
when this entry appears: "Whereupon complainants rested."
Immediately after comes this entry: "Thereupon the defendants to sustain the issues herein joined on their part, produced
the following evidence." Then follow many pages of evidence given on behalf of the defendant, and the evidence of a
witness recalled by the defendant, concluding with this entry:
"Whereupon the further proceedings herein were continued
until the 20th day of May, 1896, at 10 o'clock A.M." Immediately following is this entry: " Wednesday, May 20th, at 10
o'clock, the further trial of this cause was continued as follows." The transcript next shows some discussion by counsel as to the exclusion of particular evidence, after which is
this entry: "Thereupon counsel for defendant made a formal
motion under the evidence on both sides that the court instruct the jury to return a verdict for the defendant." Although the bill of exceptions does not state, in words, that it
contains all the evidence, the above entries sufficiently show
that it does contain all the evidence. It is therefore proper
to inquire on this record whether the Circuit Court erred in
giving a peremptory instruction for the defendant.
2. We have seen that the bonds to which were attached the
coupons in suit recited that they were issued by the Board of
County Commissioners "in exchange at par for valid floating
indebtedness of the county outstanding prior to September 2,
1882, under and by virtue of and in full conformity with the
provisions of an act of the General Assembly of the State of
Colorado, entitled 'An act to enable the several counties of
the State to fund their floating indebtedness,' approved February 21, 1881 ;" that "all the requirements of law have been
fully complied with by the proper officers in the issuing of
this bond;" that the total amount of the issue did "not exceed the limit prescribed by the constitution of the State of
Colorado;" and that such issue had been authorized by a vote

GUNNISON COUNTY COMfISSIONERS v. ROLLINS. 263
Opinion of the Court.

of a majority of the duly qualified electors of the county, voting on the question at a general election duly held in the
county on the 7th day of November, 1882.
Do such recitals estop the county from asserting against a
bonaftde holder for value that the bonds so issued created an
indebtedness in excess of the limit prescribed by the constitution of Colorado? An answer to this question can be found
in former decisions of this court. It is necessary to advert to
those decisions, particularly those in which the court considered the effect of recitals importing compliance with constitutional provisions.
In Buchanan v. Litchfield, 102 U. S. 278, 290, 292, which
was a suit on interest coupons of municipal bonds, the defence
was made that the bonds were issued in violation of that clause
of the constitution of the State providing that "no county,
city, township, school district or other municipal corporation
shall be allowed to become indebted in any manner or for any
purpose to an amount including existing indebtedness in the
aggregate exceeding five per centum on the value of the taxable property therein to be ascertained by the last assessment
for state and county taxes previous to the incurring of such
indebtedness." This court said: "As, therefore, neither the
constitution nor the statute prescribed any rule or test by
which persons contracting with municipal corporations should
ascertain the extent of their 'existing indebtedness,' it would
seem that if the bonds in question had contained recitals which,
upon any fair construction, amounted to a representation upon
the part of the constituted authorities of the city that the
requirements of the constitution were met - that is, that the
city's indebtedness, increased by the amount of the bonds in
question, was within the constitutional limit -then the city,
under the decisions of this court, might have been estopped
from disputing the truth of such representations as against a
bona fide holder of its bonds. The case might then, perhaps,
have been brought within the rule announced by this court in
Town of Coloma v. Eaves, 92 U. S.484, in which case we said,
and now repeat, that 'where legislative authority has been
given to a municipality, or .to its officers, to subscribe for the

264

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

stock of a railroad company, and to issue municipal bonds in
payment, but only on some precedent condition, such as a popular vote favoring the subscription, and where it may be gathered from the legislative enactment that the officers of the
municipality were invested with power to decide whether the
condition precedent has been complied with, their recital that
it has been, made on the bonds issued by them and held by a
bonafide purchaser, is conclusive of the fact, and binding upon
the municipality; for the recital is itself a decision of the fact
by the appointed tribunal.' So, in the more recent case of
Orleans v. Pratt,99 U. S. 676, it was said that ' where the
bonds on their face recite the circumstances which bring them
within the power, the corporation is estopped to deny the truth
of the recital.'" Again: "A recital that the bonds were issued under the authority of the statute and in pursuance of
the city ordinance, did not necessarily import a compliance with
the constitution. Had the bonds made the additional recital
that they were issued in accordance with the constitution, or
had the ordinance stated, in any form, that the proposed indebtedness was within the constitutional limit, or had the statute restricted the exercise of the authority therein conferred
to those municipal corporations whose indebtedness did not, at
the time, exceed the constitutional limit, there would have been
ground for holding that the city could not, as against the plaintiff, dispute the fair inference to be drawn from such recital
or statement as to the extent of its existing indebtedness."
In Northern Bank of Toledo v. Porter Township, 110 U. S.
608, 616, 619, which was an action on municipal bonds, and
involved a question respecting the -conclusiveness as between
the municipality and a bonafide holder for value of recitals in
the bonds that they had been issued in conformity to law, the
court referred to the above rule established in Town of Colonia
v. Eaves, and said: "We are of opinion that the rule as thus
stated does not support the position which counsel for plaintiff
in error take in the present case. The adjudged cases, examined in the light of their special circumstances, show that the
facts which a municipal corporation, issuing bonds in aid of
the construction of a railroad, was not permitted, against a

GUNNISON COUNTY COMMISSIONERS v. ROLLINS.

265

Opinion of the Court.

bona fide holder, to question, in face of a recital in the bonds
of their existence, were those connected with or growing out
of the discharge of the ordinary duties of such of its officers
as were invested with authority to execute them, and which
the statute conferring the power made it their duty to ascertain and determine before the bonds were issued; not merely
for themselves, as the ground of their own action, but, equally,
as authentic and final evidence of their existence, for.the information and action of all others dealing with them in reference to it. . . . The question of legislative authority in a
municipal corporation to issue bonds in aid of a railroad company cannot be concluded by mere recitals; but the power
existing, the municipality maybe estopped by recitals to prove
irregularities in the exercise of that power; or, when the law
prescribes conditions upon the exercise of the power granted,
and commits to the officers of such municipality the determination of the question whether those conditions have been performed, the corporation will also be estopped by recitals which
import such performance."
A leading case on this subject is Dixeon County v. Field, 111
U. S. 83, 92-94, which involved the validity of bonds issued
in the name of Dixon County, Nebraska, the constitution of
which State prescribed conditions upon which donations could
be made to a railroad or other work of internal improvement
by cities, towns, precincts, municipalities or other subdivisions
of the State, and imposed limitations upon the amount thereof
and upon the mode of creating municipal debts of that kind.
The principal question was as to the conclusiveness of certain
recitals in the bonds sued on in that case. This court said:
"The estoppel does not arise, except upon matters of fact
which the corporate officers had authority by law to determine
and to certify. It is not necessary, it is true, that the recital
should enumerate each particular fact essential to the existence
of the obligation. A general statement that the bonds have
been issued in conformity with the law will suffice, so as to
embrace every fact which the officers making the statement
are authorized to determine and certify. A determination
and statement as to the whole series, where more than one is

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

involved, is a determination and certificate as to each essential
particular. But it still remains that there must be authority
vested in the officers, by law, as to each necessary fact, whether
enumerated or non-enumerated, t*o ascertain and determine its
existence, and to guarantee to those dealing with them the
truth and conclusiveness of their admissions. In such a case
the meaning of the law granting power to issue bonds is, that
they may be issued, not upon the existence of certain facts, to
be ascertained and determined whenever disputed, but upon
the ascertainment and determination of their existence, by the
officers or body designated by law to issue the bonds upon
such a contingency. This becomes very plain when we suppose the case of such a power granted to issue bonds, upon the
existence of a state of facts to be ascertained and determined
by some persons or tribunal other than those authorized to
issue the bonds. In that case, it would not be contended that
a recital of the facts in the instrument itself, contrary to the
finding of those charged by law with that duty, would have
any legal effect. So, if the fact necessary to the existence of
the authority was by law to be ascertained, not officially by
the officers charged with the execution of the power, but by
reference to some express and definite record of a public character, then the true meaning of the law would be, that the
authority to act at all depended upon the actual objective existence of the requisite fact, as shown by the record, and not
upon its ascertainment and determination by any one; and
the consequence would necessarily follow, that all persons
claiming under the exercise of such a power might be put to
proof of the fact, made a condition of its lawfulness, notwithstanding any recitals in that instrument. This principle is the
essence of the rule declared upon this point, by this court, in
the well-considered words of Mr. Justice Strong, in Colomna v.
Eaves, 92 U. S. 484, where he states (p. 491) that it is, ' where
it may be gathered from the legislative enactment that the
officers of the municipality were invested with the power to
decide whether the condition precedent has been complied
with,' that'their recital that it has been, made in the bonds
issued by them and held by a bona fide purchaser, is conclu-

GUNNISON COUNTY COMMISSIONERS v. ROLLINS.

267

Opinion of the Court.

sive of the fact, and binding upon the municipality; for the
recital is itself a decision of the fact by the appointed tribunal.'
The converse is embraced in the proposition and is equally
true. If the officers authorized to issue bonds, upon a condition, are not the appointed tribunals to decide the fact, which
constitutes the condition, their recital will not be accepted as
a substitute for proof. In other words, where the validity of
the bonds depends upon an estoppel, claimed to arise upon
the recitals of the instrument, the question being as to the existence of power to issue them, it is necessary to establish that
the officers executing the bonds bad lawful authority to make
the recitals and to make them conclusive. The very ground
of the estoppel is that the recitals are the official statements
of those to whom the law refers the public for authentic and
final information on the subject."
In Lake County v. Graham, 130 U. S. 674, 680, 683-684,
the question was as to the validity of certain bonds issued by
Lake County, Colorado, under the very statute of that State
referred to in the bonds the coupons of which are here in
suit, namely, the above act of February 21, 1881, authorizing the several counties of the State to fund their floating
indebtedness. It was recited in each of the bonds sued on in
that case that they were issued under and by virtue of and
in full compliance with that act, and that "all the provisions
and requirements of said act have been fully complied with
by the proper officers in the issuing of this bond." No one
of the bonds, let it be observed, contained any recital that it
was issued in conformity to the provisions of the state constitution. This court said: "Nothing is better settled than
this rule-that the purchaser of bonds, such as these, is held
to know the constitutional provisions and the statutory restrictions bearing on the question of the authority to issue them;
also the recitals of the bonds'he buys; while, on the other
hand, if he act in good faith and pay value, he is entitled to
the protection of such recitals of facts as the bonds may contain.
In this case the constitution charges each purchaser
with knowledge of the fact that, as to all. counties whose
assessed valuation equals one million of dollars, there is a

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

maximum limit beyond which those counties can incur no
further indebtedness under any possible conditions, provided,
that in calculating that limit, .debts contracted before the adoption of the constitution are not to be counted. The statute,
on the other hand, charges the purchaser with knowledge of
the fact that the county commissioners were to issue bonds,
at par, in exchange for such warrants of the county as were
themselves issued prior to the date of the first publication of
the notice provided for; that the only limitation on the issue
of bonds in the statute was, that the bonds should not exceed
in amount the sum of the county indebtedness on the day
of notice aforesaid; that while the commissioners were empowered to determine the amount of such indebtedness, yet
the statute does not refer that board, for the elements of its
computation, to the constitution or to the standards prescribed
by the constitution, but leaves it open to them, without departing from any direction of the statute, to adopt solely the
basis of the county warrants. The recitals of the bonds were
merely to the effect that the issue was 'under, and by virtue
of, and in full compliance with,' the statute; ' that all the provisions and requirements of said act have been fully complied
with by the proper officers in the issuing of this bond;' and
that the issuing was 'authorized by a vote of a majority of
the duly qualified electors,' etc.; no express reference being
made to the constitution, nor any statement made that the
constitutional requirements had been observed. There is,
therefore, no estoppel as to the constitutionalquestion, because
there is no recital in regard to it. Carroll County v. Smith,
111 U. S. 556." In disposing of the contention that, under
the doctrines of certain adjudged cases, the county was estopped to deny that the bonds were issued in conformity to
the constitution, the court said: "The question here is distinguishable from that in the cases relied on by counsel for
defendant in error. In this case the standard of validity is
In that standard two factors
created by the constitution.
are to be considered; one the amount of assessed value, and
the other the ratio between that assessed value and the debt
proposed. These being exactions of the constitution itself,

GUNNISON COUNTY COMMISSIONERS v. ROLLINS.

269

Opinion of the Court.

it is not within the power of a legislature to dispense with

them, either directly or indirectly, by the creation of a ministerial commission whose finding shall be taken in lieu of the
facts. In the case of Sherman County v. Simons, 109 U. S.
735, and others like it, the question was one of estoppel as
against an exaction imposed by the legislature; and the holding was, that the legislature, being the source of exaction,
had created a board authorized to determine whether its
action had been complied with, and that its finding was conclusive to a bona fide purchaser. So also in Oregon v. Jennings, 119 U. S. 71, the condition violated was not one
imposed by the constitution, but one fixed by the subscription contract of the people."
This brings us in our reference to the authorities to the
important case of Chafjee County v. Potter, 142 U. S. 355,
363, 364, 366. That was an action upon coupons of bonds
issued by Chaffee County, Colorado, under the act of February 21, 1881, under which the bonds here in suit were issued.
The bonds and coupons were in the same form and contained
the same recitals as the above bonds issued by Gunnison
County, and were of like date. The defence in part in the
Chafee County case was that the bonds, and each of them,
were issued in violation of the constitution of the State.
After referring to the decision in Lake County v. Graham
(the bonds in which did not contain any express recitals as
to the constitutional limit of indebtedness), and stating that
it was based largely on the ruling in Dixon County v. Field,
this cohrt said: "To the views expressed in that case we still
adhere; and the only question for us now to consider, therefore, is: Do the additional recitals in these bonds, above set
out, and in the absence from their face of anything showing
the total number issued of each series, and the total amount
in all, estop the county from pleading the constitutional limitation? In our opinion these two features are of vital importance in distinguishing this case from Lake County v.
Graham and Dixon County v. Field, and are sufflcient to operate as an estoppel against the county. Of course, the purchaser of bonds in open market was bound to take notice of

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

the constitutional limitation on the county with respect to
indebtedness which it might incur. But when, upon the face
of the bonds, there was any express recital that the limitation
had not been passed, and the bonds themselves did not show
that it had, he was bound to look no further. An examination of any particular bond would not disclose, as it would
in the Lake County case, and in Dixon County v. Field, that,
as a matter of fact, the constitutional limitation had been
exceeded, in the issue of the series of bonds. The purchaser
might even know, indeed it may be admitted that he would
be required to know, the assessed valuation of the taxable
property of the county, and yet he could not ascertain by reference to one of the bonds and the assessment roll whether
the county had exceeded its power, under the constitution, in
the premises. True, if a purchaser had seen the whole issue
of each series of bonds and then compared it with the assessment roll, he might have been able to discover whether the
issue exceeded the amount of indebtedness limited by the
constitution. But that is not the test to apply to a transaction of this nature. It is not supposed that any one person
would purchase all of the bonds at one time, as that is not
the usual course of business of this kind. The test is -What
does each individual bond disclose? If the face of one of the
bonds had disclosed that, as a matter of fact, the recital in
it, with respect to the constitutional limitation, was false, of
course the county would not be bound by that recital, and
would not be estopped from pleading the invalidity of the
bonds in this particular. Such was the case in Lake County
v. Graham and Dixon County v. Field. But that is not this
case. Here, by virtue of the statute under which the bonds
were issued, the county commissioners were to determine the
amount to be issued, which was not to exceed the total amount
of the indebtedness at the date of the first publication of the
notice requesting the holders of county warrants to exchange
their warrants for bonds, at par. The statute, in terms, gave
to the commissioners the determination of a fact, that is,
whether the issue of bonds was in accordance with the constitution of the State and the statute under which they

GU1'.NISON COUNTY COMMISSIONERS v. ROLLINS.

271

Opinion of the Court.

were issued, and required them to spread a certificate of
that determination upon the records of the county. The
recital in the bond to the effect that such determination has
been made, and that the constitutional limitation had not been
exceeded in the issue of the bonds, taken in connection with the
fact that the bonds themselves did not show such recital to be
untrue, under the law, estops the county from saying that it is
untrue. Town of Coloma v. Eaves, 92 U. S. 484; Town of
Venice v. .Xurdock, 92 U. S. 494; .2iarcy v. Township of
Oswego, 92 U. S. 637; Wilson v. Salamanca, 99 U. S. 499;
Buchanan v. .Litchfield, 102 U. S. 278; NYorthern Bank v.
Porter Township, 110 U. S. 608." After referring to what
was said in Town of Goloma v. Eaves and Buchanan v. Litchfield, the court thus concludes its opinion: "We think this
case comes fairly within the principles of those just cited;
and that it is not governed by Dixon County v. Field and Lake
County v. Graham, but is distinguishable from them in the
essential particulars above noted."
It is contended that the present case is controlled by Sutlif
v. Lake County Commissioners, 147 U. S. 230, 235, 237-8,
rather than by Chaffee County v. Potter. The action in the
Sutliff case was upon coupons of bonds issued by a county of
Colorado, each bond reciting that it was issued under and
by virtue of and in compliance with the act of assembly
entitled "An act concerning counties, county officers and
county government, and repealing laws on these subjects,"
approved March 21, 1877, and it was certified in each bond
that "all the provisions of said act have been fully complied
with by the proper officers in the issuing of this bond." It
was a vital fact in that case that there was no recital in the
bonds that the indebtedness thus created was not in excess of
the constitutional limit. Still the defence was that the bonds
in fact increased the indebtedness of the county to an amount
in excess of the limit prescribed by the state constitution and
therefore were illegal and void. The court, upon the facts
certified and in the light of previous decisions, held it to be
clear that "the plaintiff, although a purchaser for value
and before maturity of the bonds, was charged with the duty

OCTOBER TERIT, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

of examining the records of indebtedness provided for in the
statute of Colorado, in order to ascertain whether the bonds
increased the indebtedness of the county beyond the constitutional limit; and that the recitals in the bonds did not
estop the county to prove by the records of the assessment
and the indebtedness that the bonds were issued in violation
of the constitution. In those cases," it continued, "in which
this court has held a municipal corporation to be estopped
by recitals in its bonds to assert that they were issued in
excess of the limit imposed by the constitution or statutes of
the State, the statutes, as construed by the court, left it to
the officers issuing the bonds to determine whether the facts
existed which constituted the statutory or constitutional condition precedent, and did not require those facts to be made
a matter of public record. -Marcy v. Oswego, 92 IU. S. 637;
Humboldt v. Long, 92 U. S. 642; Dixon County v. Field,
111 U. S. 83; Lake County v. Grah4am, 130 U. S. 674, 682;
Chaffee County v. Potter, 142 U. S. 355, 363. But if the
statute expressly requires those facts to be made a matter of
public record, open to the inspection of every one, there can
be no implication that it was intended to leave that matter
to be determined and concluded, contrary to the facts so
recorded, by the officers charged with the duty of issuing
the bonds." After referring to Dixon County v. Field, above
cited, the court proceeded to show the precise grounds upon
which the decisions in Lake County v. Graham and Chafee
County v. Potter were rested: "That decision [Dixon County
v. Field] and the ground upon which it rests were approved
and affirmed in Lake County v. Graham and Chaffee County
v. Potter, above cited, each of which arose under the article
of the constitution of Colorado now in question, but under
a different statute, which did not require the amount of indebtedness of the county to be stated on its records. In Lake
County v. G'aham, each bond showed on its face the whole
amount of bonds issued, and the recorded valuation of property showed that amount to be in excess of the constitutional
limit; and for this reason, as well as because the bonds contained no recital upon that point, the county was held not to

GUNNISON COUNTY COMMISSIONERS v. ROLLINS.
Opinion of the

273

Court.

In
be estopped to plead that limit. 130 U. S. 682, 683.
Chaffee County v. Potter, on the other hand, the bonds contained an express recital that the total amount of the issue did
not exceed the constitutional limit, and did not show on their
face the amount of the issue, and the county records showed
only the valuation of property, so that, as observed by Mr.
Justice Lamar in delivering judgment: ' The purchaser might
even know, indeed it may be admitted that he would be required to know, the assessed valuation of the taxable property
of the county, and yet he could not ascertain by reference to
one of the bonds and the assessment roll whether the county
had exceeded its power, under the constitution, in the premises.' 142 U. S. 363. The case at bar does not fall within
Chafee County v. Potter, and cannot be distinguished in
principle from Dixon County v. Field or from Lake County
v. Graham. The only difference worthy of notice is that in
each of these cases the single fact required to be shown by
the public record was the valuation of the property of the
county, whereas here two facts are to be so shown, the valuation of the property, and the amount of the county debt.
But, as both these facts are equally required by the statute
to be entered on the public records of the county, they are
both facts of which all the world is bound to take notice, and
as to which, therefore, the county cannot be concluded by any
recitals in the bonds."
It thus appears that in the Sutlif case the court neither
modified, nor intended to modify, but distinctly recognized,
the principle announced in Chaffee. County v. Potter, namely,
that the recital in the bonds that the debt thereby created did
not exceed the limit prescribed by the constitution estopped
the county from asserting, as against a bona fide holder for
value, that the contrary was the fact.
We have made this extended Teference to adjudged cases
because of the wide difference among learned counsel as to the
effect of our former decisions. This course has also been pursued in order to bring out clearly the fact taat the present
case is controlled by the judgment in Chafee County v. Potter.
The views of the Circuit Court, as expressed in its charge in
VOL. cLXXi-18

OCTOBER TERIM,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

this case and as enforced by its peremptory instruction to find
for the defendant, cannot be approved without overruling that
case. It was expressly decided in the Chaffee County case
that the statute under which the bonds there in suit (the bonds
here in suit being of the same class) authorized the County
Commissioners to determine whether the proposed issue of
bonds would in fact exceed the limit prescribed by the constitution and the statute; and that the recital in the bond to the
effect that such determination had been made and that the
constitutional limitation had not been exceeded, taken in connection with the fact that the bonds themselves did not show
such recital to be untrue, estopped the county, under the law,
from saying that the recital was not true. We decline to
overrule C/iafee County v. Potter, and upon the authority of
that case, and without reexamining or enlarging upon the
grounds upon which the decision therein proceeded, we adjudge that as against the plaintiff the county of Gunnison is
estopped to question the recital in the bonds in question to the
effect that they did not create a debt in excess of the constitutional limit and were issued by virtue of and in conformity
with the statute of 1881 and in full compliance with the requirements of law.
We have assumed thus far that the plaintiff corporation was
a bona fide purchaser or holder of the bonds to which the
coupons in suit were attached. Upon this question we concur in the views expressed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Speaking by Judge Thayer, that court said: "The testimony
contained in the present record shows, we think, without contradiction that the plaintiff was a bona fide holder when the
suit was brought of at least five of the bonds which are involved in the present controversy, because it holds the title
of Joseph Stanley, who was himself an innocent purchaser
of said bonds before maturity, for the price of ninety-eight
cents on the dollar. The rights which Stanley acquired by
virtue of such purchase inure to the plaintiff, by virtue of its
purchase of the bonds from Stanley in June, 1892, and this
without reference to any knowledge which the plaintiff may
have had at the latter date affecting the validity of the secu-

GUNNISON COUNTY COMMISSIONERS v. ROLLINS. 275
Opinion of the Court.

rities. A bona fide holder of commercial paper is entitled to
transfer to a third party all the rights with which he is vested,
and the title so acquired by his indorsee cannot be affected
by proof that the indorsee was acquainted with the defences
existing against the paper. Commissioners of .arion County
v. Clark, 94 U. S. 278, 286; Hill v. Scotland County, 34 Fed.
Rep. 208; Daniel on Negotiable Instruments, (4th ed.,) ยง 803,
and cases there cited." 49 U. S. App. 399, 413.
The remaining five bonds owned by the plaintiff corporation were also purchased from Stanley, who received them
directly from the county in exchange for warrants that he
owned and held. There is no reason why upon the surrender of county warrants for county bonds he was not entitled
to the benefit of the rule above declared as to the conclusiveness of the recital in the bonds, or why he may not be
regarded as much an innocent holder of the bonds exchanged
for county warrants as of the other bonds purchased by him
in open market. There is no proof that at the time of such
exchange he had or was chargeable with knowledge or notice
that the debt created by the bonds exceeded the constitutional
limit; consequently, in taking the bonds in exchange he was
entitled, for the reasons heretofore given, to rely upon the
truth of the recitals contained in them. When the Board of
County Commissioners, proceeding under the act of 1881,
offered to exchange county bonds for the warrants held by
him, he was entitled under the circumstances disclosed to
assume it to be true as recited in the bonds that the constitutional limit was not being exceeded.
It is insisted with much earnestness that the principles we
have announced render it impossible for a State by a constitutional provision to guard against excessive municipal indebtedness. By no means. If a state constitution, in fixing a
limit for indebtedness of that character, should prescribe a
definite rule or test for determining whether that limit has
already been exceeded or is being exceeded by any particular
issue of bonds, all who purchase such bonds would do so subject to that rule or test, whatever might be the hardship in
the case of those who purchased them in the open market

OCTOBER TERII, 1898.
Syllabus.

in good faith. Indeed, it is entirely competent for a State to
provide by statute that all obligations, in whatever form executed by a municipality existing under its laws, shall be
subject to any defence that would be allowed in cases of
non-negotiable instruments. But for reasons that every one
understands no such statutes have been passed. Municipal
obligations executed under such a statute could not be readily
disposed of to those who invest in such securities.
It follows that the Circuit Court erred in directing the jury
to return a verdict for the defendant.
What has been said renders it unnecessary to consider various questions arising upon exceptions to specific rulings in the
Circuit Court as to the admission and exclusion of evidence,
and as to those parts of the charge to which objections were
made. Those rulings were inconsistent with the principles
herein announced.
As neither the Circuit Court nor the Circuit Court of Appeals
proceeded in accordance with the principles herein announced,
the judgment of each court is
Reversed, und the cause is rema'ndedforfurther aproceedings
consistent with this opinion.

OHIO v. THOMAS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 853.

Argued and submitted January 10, 1899.-

Decided February 27, 1899.

In making provision for feeding the inmates of the soldiers' home in Ohio,
in accordance with the legislation of Congress in that respect, and under
the direction of the board of managers, the governor of the house is engaged in the internal administration of a Federal institution, and the
state legislature has no constitutional power to interfere with the man-

agement which is provided for it by Congress, nor with the provisions
made by Congress for furnishing food to the inmates, nor does the police
power of the State enable it to prohibit or regulate the furnishing of any

