234

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Appellant.

301 U. S.

FIRST BANK STOCK CORP. v. MINNESOTA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 647.

Argued March 31, 1937.-Decided April 26, 1937.

A Delaware corporation transacted its corporate and fiscal business in Minnesota, maintaining in that State a business office
and holding there its meetings of stockholders, directors and
executive committee. It owned a controlling interest in the
stock of a number of banks of several States. Stock certificates
of the subsidiaries were kept in Minnesota arid there it received
the dividends thereon, and declared and disbursed the dividends
upon its own shares. Through a wholly-owned subsidiary corporation, organized and doing business in Minnesota, it maintained a compensated service for the banks which it controlled,
offering advice as to their accounting practices, making recommendations concerning loans, commercial paper and interest rates,
and making suggestions regarding their purchase and sale of securities. It planned for them advertising campaigns, and supplied
advertising material. Thus it maintained within the State an
integrated business of protecting its investments in bank shares,
and enhancing their value, by the active exercise of its power of
control through stock ownership of its subsidiary banks.
. Held, that the corporation's commercial domicile was in Minnesota and that its shares of stock in North Dakota and Montana
banking corporations were taxable by Minnesota. P. 237.
Whether the same shares could, consistently with the Fourteenth
Amendment, be taxed also in North Dakota and Montana, is a
question not decided.
197 Minn. 544; 267 N. W. 519, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment in favor of the State of Minnesota in proceedings to enforce collections of delinquent
taxes.
Mr. JosephH. Colman, with whom Messrs. John Junell,
Clark R. Fletcher,and Leland W. Scott were on the brief,
for appellant.
The appellant contends that only one State can
constitutionally impose a property tax on intangibles
in the case of state bank shares. It is the State of

FIRST BANK CORP. v. MINNESOTA.
234

235

Argument for Appellee.

incorporation of the bank which can impose the tax and
not the State of the domicile of the shareholder or of the
business situs of the shares. Appellant further contends
that the shaues of stock it holds in state banks located
without Minnesota have a business situs, if any, at the
location of the banks and not in Minnesota.
It is the position of appellant that the Minnesota
statute, as construed by the Minnesota Supreme Court to
impose a property tax upon appellant's shares of stock in
banks organized under the laws of foreign States, is, for
the above reasons, unconstitutional under the Fourteenth
Amendment. Appellant does not here contend that the
Minnesota statute is unconstitutional in any way other
than in its application to shares of stock in foreign state
banks.
Mr. William S. Ervin, Attorney General of Minnesota,
and Mr. Frank J. Williams, with whom Mr. Matthias N.
Orfield, Deputy Attorney General, was on the brief, for
appellee.
The right of a State to tax property within its
territorial jurisdiction is inherent and an attribute of
sovereignty.
This Court, in the process of developing a symmetrical
system of preventing multi-state taxation of the same
economic interest, has laid down certain rules by which
the right of a given State to tax intangibles is to be
determined.
The facts in this chse bring the property here in question, under the rules as formulated, within the jurisdiction of the State of Minnesota. The owner has a
"commercial domicile" in Minnesota; the property is
physically present in that State; and the owner has
given the property a business situs there by employing
it within that'State in the condict of a super banking
business, which is a new and important economic unit.

236

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

Minnesota has a constitutional right to tax the property in question.
Appellant's position is untenable in the light of recent
decisions of this Court.
The right to tax stock in state banks rests on fundamentally different considerations from the right to tax
national bank stock.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court of

Minnesota, Judicial Code, ยง 237, involves the question
whether appellant, a Delaware corporation doing business in Minnesota, may be required, consistently with
the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, to
pay a property tax laid by Minnesota upon appellant's
shares of stock in Montana and North Dakota state banking corporations.
The trial court concluded that, as the shares are lawfully taxed by Montana and North Dakota, it would be
a denial of due process to tax them in Minnesota. The
Supreme Court of the state reversed, holding that as
appellant has acquired a commercial domicil within the
state, and as its shares in the Montana and North Dakota
banks are assets of the business carried on by appellant
in Minnesota, they are rightly taxed there rather than
in Montana or North Dakota. 197 Minn. 544; 267 N. W.
519.

Appellant is qualified to do business in Minnesota, and
in fact transacts its corporate business and fiscal affairs
there. It maintains a business office within the state and
holds there its meetings of stockholders, directors and
their executive committee. It is the owner of a controlling interest in the stock of -a large number of banks,
trust companies and other financial institutions, located
in the Ninth Federal Reserve District. The stock cer-

FIRST BANK CORP. v. MINNESOTA.
234

237

Opinion of the Court.

tificates are kept in Minnesota, where appellant receives
dividends declared by its subsidiaries, and where it declares and disburses dividends upon its own stock.
Through a wholly-owned subsidiary corporation, organized and doing business in Minnesota, it maintains a
compensated service for the banks which it controls. It
offers advice as to their accounting practices, makes recommendations concerning loans, commercial paper and
interest rates, and makes suggestions regarding their purchase and sale of securities. It also plans for them advertising campaigns, and supplies advertising material.
Appellant thus maintains within the state an integrated
business of protecting its investments in bank shares,
and enhancing their value, by the active exercise of its
power of control through stock ownership of its subsidiary
banks.
Appellant is to be regarded as legally domiciled in
Delaware, the place of its organization, and as taxable
there upon its intangibles, see Cream of Wheat Co. v.
Grand Forks, 253 U. S. 325, 328; Johnson Oil Refining
Co. v. Oklahoma, 290 U. S. 158, 161; Virginia v. Imperial
Coal Sales Co., 293 U. S. 15, 19, at least in the absence
of activities identifying them with some other place as
their "business situs." But it is plain that the business
which appellantcarries on in Minnesota, or directs from
its offices maintained there, is sufficiently identified with
Minnesota to establish a "commercial domicil" there, and
to give a business situs there, for purposes of taxation,
to intangibles which are used in the business or are incidental to it, and have thus "become integral parts of
some local business." Wheeling Steel Corp. v. Fox, 298
U. S. 193, 210; see Farmers Loan & Trust Co. v. Minnesota, 280 U. S. 204, 213; Beidler v. South Carolina Tax
Comm'n, 282 U. S. 1, 8; First National Bank v. Maine,
284 U. S. 312, 331.

238

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

The doctrine that intangibles may be taxed at their
business situs, as distinguished from the legal domicil
of their. owner, has usually been applied to obligations
to pay money, acquired in the course of a localized business. New Orleans v. Stempel, 175 U. S. 309; Bristol v.
Washington County, 177 U. S. 133; Board of Assessors
v. Comptoir National, 191 U. S. 388; Metropolitan Life
Ins. Co. v. New Orleans, 205 U. S. 395; Wheeling Steel
Corp. v. Fox, supra, 212, 213. But it is equally applicable
to shares of corporate stock which, because of their use
in a business of the owner, may be treated as localized,
for purposes of taxation, at the place of the business, see
First National Bank v. Maine, supra, 331; cf. De Ganay
v. Lederer, 250 U. S. 376, 382. Appellant's entire business in Minnesota is founded on its ownership of the
shares of stock and their use as instruments of corporate
control. They are as much "integral parts" of the local
business as accounts receivable in a merchandising business, or the bank accounts in which the proceeds of the
accounts receivable are deposited upon collection. Compare Wheeling Steel Corp. v. Fox, supra, 212-214. Thus
identified with the business conducted by appellant in
Minnesota, they are as subject to local property taxes
as they would be if the owner were a private individual
domiciled in the state.
Appellant does not deny that it is subject to taxation
in Minnesota on some intangibles. In making its 1934
return of "moneys and credits" for taxation under Minn.
Stat. 1927 (Mason) ยง 2337 et seq., which imposes the
present tax, appellant included bank deposits within and
without the state, promissory notes, bonds and other
evidences of indebtedness. It does not challenge the tax
imposed on its shares of stock in corporations organized
and doing business without the state, other than those
in the Montana and North Dakota banks. It says that

FIRST BANK CORP. v. MINNESOTA.
234

239

Opinion of the Court.

these states have adopted the only feasible scheme of
taxation of the shares of state banks which will admit
of a state property tax on national bank shares, since
R. S. ยง 5219 (12 U. S. C. ยง 548), permits shares of national banks to be taxed only by the. state where the
bank does business, and then only if they are not assessed
"at a greater rate than . . . other moneyed capital
.
coming into
in the hands of individual citizens .
competition with the business of national banks." See
First National Bank v. Anderson, 269 U. S. 341, 348;
Minnesota v. First National Bank, 273 U. S. 561. Both
states assess for property taxation the shares of national
banks doing business within their limits and assess in
like manner the shares of state banks, and thus avoid
discrimination in taxation between the shares of national
and of state banks.
Appellant argues that every state may establish a tax
situs within the state for shares of stock in its own banking corporations, and that Montana and North Dakota
have done so by providing, in pursuance of their scheme
for the local taxation of banking corporations, that the
shares shall be taxable there. Corry v. Baltimore, 196
U. S. 466; see National Bank v. Commonwealth, 9 Wall.
353; Tappanv. Merchants' National Bank, 19 Wall. 490;
Rhode Island Trust Co. v. Doughton, 270 U. S. 69, 81.
It insists that as the shares are properly taxable by the
respective states of their origin, and as due process forbids the imposition of a property tax upon intangibles
in more than one state, they cannot be taxed in
Minnesota.
The logic is inexorable if the premises are accepted.
But we do not find it necessary to decide whether taxation of the shares in Montana or North Dakota is foreclosed by sustaining the Minnesota tax. Nor need we inquire whether a non-resident shareholder, by acquiring

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

stock in a local corporation, so far subjects his investment to the control and laws of the state which has created the corporation as to preclude any objection, on
grounds of due process, to the taxation of the shares
there, even though they are subject to taxation elsewhere, at their business situs.' We leave those questions
open. It is enough for present purposes that this Court
has often upheld and never denied the constitutional
power to tax shares of stock at the place of the domicil of
the owner. Hawley v. Malden, 232 U. S. 1, 11, 12; Klein
v. Board of Tax Supervisors, 282 U. S. 19, 24; Wright v.
Louisville & Nashville R. Co., 195 U. S. 219; Kidd v. Alabama, 188 U. S. 730; Darnell v. Indiana, 226 U. S. 390.
And it has fully recognized that the business situs of an
intangible affords an adequate basis for fixing a place of
taxation. See Wheeling Steel Corp. v. Fox, supra; De
Ganay v. Lederer, supra; cf. Safe Deposit & Trust Co. v.
Virginia, 280 U. S. 83, 91.
The rule that property is subject to taxation at its situs.
within the territorial jurisdiction of the taxing state,
readily understood and applied with respect to tangibles,
is in itself meaningless when applied to intangibles which,
since they are without physical characteristics, can have
no location in space. See Wheeling Steel Corp. v. Fox,
supra, 209. The resort to a fiction by the attribution of
'See Corry v. Baltimore, 196 U. S. 466,' 476, 477, Tappan v. Merchants' National Bank, 19 Wall. 490, 499, 500; Flash v. Conn, 109
U. S. 371, 377; Whitnint v. Oxford National Bank, 176 U. S. 559, 564;
Hancock National Bank v. Farnum, 176 U. S. 640, 643; Nashua Savings Bank v. Anglo-American Co., 189 U. S. 221, 230; Canada Southern Ry. Co. v. Gebhard, 109 U. S. 527, 537; Relfe v. Ruindle, 103 U. S.
222, 226; Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U. S. 516, 533; Converse v.
Hamilton, 224 U. S. 243, 260; Clark v. Williard, 292 U. S. 112, 121;
Royal Arcanum v. Green, 237 U. S. 531, 542; Modern Woodmen of
America v. Mixer, 267 U. S. 544, 551; Broderick v. Rosner, 294 U. S.
629, 643.

FIRST BANK CORP. v. MINNESOTA.
234

241

Opinion of the Court.

a tax situs to an intangible is only a means of symbolizing, without fully revealing, those considerations which
are persuasive grounds for deciding that a particular place
is appropriate for the imposition of the tax. Mobilia sequunturpersonam,which has won unqualified acceptance
when applied to the taxation of intangibles, Blodgett v.
Silberman, 277 U. S.1, 9-10, states a rule without disclosing the reasons for it. But we have recently had occasion
to point out that enjoyment by the resident of a state of
the protection of its laws is inseparable from responsibility for sharing the costs of its government, and that a tax
measured by the value of rights protected is but an equitable method of distributing the burdens of government
among those who are privileged to enjoy its benefits.
See New York ex rel. Cohn v. Graves, 300 U. S.308.
The economic advantages realized through the protection, at the place of domicil, of the ownership of rights in
intangibles, the value of which is made the measure of
the tax, bear a direct relationship to the distribution of
burdens which the tax effects. These considerations support the taxation of intangibles at the place of domicil,
at least where they are not shown to have acquired a business situs elsewhere, as a proper exercise of the power of
government. Like considerations support their taxation
at their business situs, for it is there that the owner in
every practical sense invokes and enjoys the protection
of the laws, and in consequence realizes the economic
advantages of his ownership. We cannot say that there
is any want of due process in the taxation of the corporate shares in Minnesota, irrespective of the extent of
the control over them which the due process clause may
save to the states of incorporation.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
146212*-37----16

