ASSOCIATED PRESS v. LABOR BOARD.
58

103

Syllabus.

employee to agree not to become a member of a labor
organization during the time of his employment, was
repugnant to the due process clause of the Fourteenth

Amendment.
The right to contract is fundamental and includes the
privilege of selecting those with whom one is wiling to
assume contractual relations. This right is unduly
abridged by the Act now upheld. A private owner is deprived of power to manage his own property by freely
selecting those to whom his manufacturing operations are
to be entrusted. We think this cannot lawfully be done
in circumstances like those here disclosed.
It seems clear to us that Congress has transcended the
powers granted.
ASSOCIATED PRESS v. NATIONAL LABOR
RELATIONS BOARD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 365. Argued February 9, 10, 1937.-Decided April 12, 1937.
1. Interstate communication of a business nature, whatever the means
employed, is interstate commerce subject to regulation by Congress. P. 128.
2. The Associated Press, a non-profit-making corporation whose members are the owners of newspapers published for profit throughout
the country, is engaged as their agency in exchanging news between
those publications, using the telegraph and telephone and other
means of communication, and in supplying them in like manner
with domestic and foreign news collected by itself. Held engaged
in interstate commerce within the meaning of the National Labor
Relations Act and Constitution, Art. I, § 8. P. 125.
3. This conclusion is unaffected by the facts that the Associated
Press does not itself sell news or operate for profit and that technically it retains title to the news during interstate transmission.
P. 128.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Petitioner.

301 U.S.

4. Provisions of the National Labor Relations Act empowering the
National Labor Relations Board, in protection of interstate commerce, to require that employees discharged for union activities and
advocacy of collective bargaining be restored to employment and
their losses of pay made good, held valid as applied to the Associated Press in the case of an employee whose duties were editorial,
having to do with the preparation of news for transmission rather
than its actual transmission in interstate commerce. Virginian Ry.
Co. v. System FederationNo. 40, 300 U. S. 515; Texas & N. 0. R.
Co. v. Railway Clerks, 281 U. S. 548. P. 129.
5. The National Labor Relations Act, as so applied in this case, does
not unconstitutionally abridge the freedom of the press. P. 130.
The Act does not compel the Associated Press to employ anyone, or to retain an incompetent editor, or one who fails faithfully
to edit the news without bias. It does not interfere with the right
to discharge any employee (including one who has been so reinstated by order of the Labor Board) for any cause deemed proper
by the employer, save only the forbidden reasons of union activities
and advocacy of collective bargaining.
6. The contentions that the National Labor Relations Act deprives
petitioner of property without due process; that the order of the
Board requiring restoration of lost pay deprives petitioner of the
right to trial by jury; and that the Act is invalid on its face because it seeks to regulate both interstate and intrastate commerce,
are rejected upon the authority of Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v. Railway
Clerks, 281 U. S. 548, and National Labor Relations Board v. Jones
& Laughlin Steel Corp., ante, p. 1. P. 133.
85 F. (2d) 56, affirmed.

CIRTIORARI, 299 U. S. 532,

to review a decree sustaining

an order of the National Labor Relations Board. The
case came before the court below on the Board's petition
for enforcement of its order.
Mr. John W. Davis, with whom Messrs. William C.
Cannon, Harold W. Bissell, and Edwin F. Blair were on
the brief, for the petitioner.*
Arguments in this case are summarized from the briefs.

Ex-

tracts from the oral arguments in this and in the other Labor Act
cases will appear in an appendix in the bound volume.

ASSOCIATED PRESS v. LABOR BOARD. 105
103

Argument for Petitioner.

I. The Act is void in its entirety as an unrestricted
attempt to regulate the relationship between all industrial employers and employees by imposing "collective
bargaining" in violation of the Tenth Amendment.
This sweeping purpose appears in the preamble and
is even more clearly shown by the very *provisions and
definitions in the Act. The legislative history leaves no
possible doubt.
In this respect the Act is inseverable, notwithstanding
the separability clause. Railroad Retirement Board v.
Alton R. Co., 295 U. S. 330, 362.
The entire Act, therefore, is a patent violation of the
Tenth Amendment. Carter v. Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S.
238; United States v. Butler, 297 U. S. 1; Jacobson v.
Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11, 22; Schechter Poultry Corp.
v. United States, 295 U. S. 495; McCulloch v. Maryland,
4 Wheat. 316.
II. The relation between the Associated Press and its
editorial employees is not interstate commerce, does not
affect such commerce, and is not subject to federal control.
An interruption in the process of production or manufacture, although it may lessen the supply of goods available for commerce, is not, per se, an obstruction to commerce nor does it directly affect it.
It is direct causes operating directly with which Congress is empowered to deal. There may be borderline
cases, but the principle is clear. United Mine Workers v.
Coronado Coal Co., 259 U. S. 344, 408; United Leather
Workers v. Herkert, 265 U. S. 457.
The assertion that labor disputes between the editorial
employees and their employer might or would directly
affect interstate commerce, is incomprehensible in the
light of this Court's decisions. Manifestly the effect
would be quite as remote and no more direct than that
produced by labor disputes in any producing industry.

106

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Petitioner.

301 U. S.

Carter v. Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S. 238; Schechter Poultry Corp. v. United States, 295 U. S. 495; United Mine
Workers v. Coronado Coal Co., 259 U. S. 344.
So far as this record shows, a walkout in the New York
office would not of necessity materially affect the flow of
news.
If Congress can pass a law to compel collective bargaining and to forbid the discharge of employees, as
prescribed by § 8, it can, when it chooses, go on to laws
compelling in express terms the closed shop, the open
shop, maximum and minimum wages, hours of employment, safety devices, sanitary arrangements, housing, the
times and manner of payment--everything in short
which by any possibility could be thought to promote
the contentment of the laborer in any and every industry
and thus lead to industrial peace.
The question of power does not turn upon the magnitude of the cause or of the effect, but entirely upon the
manner in which the effect has been brought about.
Carter v. Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S. 238, 307-308.
The Associated Press is in no sense an instrumentality
of interstate commerce. Its editorial employees, including the complainant Morris Watson, are not engaged in
interstate or foreign commerce.
Commerce means more than communication. The word
"is the equivalent of the phrase 'intercourse for the purposes of trade.'" Carter v. Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S.
238, 303.
Basically, the Associated Press is an exchange of news
system and nothing more. Even if this exchange were
the equivalent of a sale, it would not amount to "trade,"
because the Associated Press does not exchange news with
the public, but only with its own members and other
news agencies. Pivate or intracorporate exchange is not
interstate commerce. See Pipe Line Cases, 234 U. S.

ASSOCIATED PRESS v. LABOR BOARD.
103

107

Argument for Petitioner.

548, 561-562; Hopkins v. United States, 171 U. S. 578,
603; Anderson v. United States, 171 U. S. 604, 612. Distinguishing: International Textbook Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S.
91; Indiana Farmer's Guide Pub. Co. v. PrairieFarmer
Publishing Co., 293 U. S. 268, 276.
It is well settled that the regulation of so much of a
business as constitutes interstate commerce cannot be extended to embrace the rest:- First Employers' Liability
Cases, 207 U. S. 463, 502; Railroad Retirement Board
v. Alton R. Co., 295 U. S. 330; United States v. Chicago,
M., St. P. & P. R. Co., 282 U. S. 311, 327; cf. Western
Union v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1.
The business of the Associated Press in its New York
office consists of two distinct functions, namely, production and transmission. Editorial employees are engaged
exclusively in production. In this sense the analogy is
exact between these employees and the employees of a
manufacturing plant engaged in transforming the raw
materials into the completed article. The speed of their
production, the shoutness of the interval between production and transmission, do not change the essential character of either function. Utah Power & Light Co. v.
Pfost, 286 U. S. 165. See First Employers' Liability
Cases, 207 U. S. 463, 502.
In the so-called "throat," "current" or "flow" of commerce cases the persons and things regulated were necessary agencies of interstate commerce, affected with a national public interest, and therefore subject to the regulations in question, which related to matters in, directly
affecting, or inextricably intermingled with, interstate
commerce. Furthermore, the "flow" cases advance no new
doctrine, but only hold that Congress may properly keep
certain persons from obstructing or closing the avenues
of commerce to other persons. Likewise, even when Congress does not act, the individual States are themselves

108

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Petitioner.

301 U. S.

prohibited from obstructing, burdening, or discriminating against interstate commerce. Cf. Tagg Bros. &
Moorhead v. United States, 280 U. S. 420; Carter v. Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S. 238, 305.
The Railroad Cases. Such regulation as Congress has
attempted of the relation between employer and employee on the railroads is bottomed on the fact that the
railroads are the essential instrumentalities by which interstate commerce is carried on and may be compelled to
furnish safe and continuous service of transportation.
RailroadRetirement Board v. Alton R. Co., 295 U. S.330,
376. Extensive as the power of Congress over the railroads may be, the regulation of the employer-employee
relation on railroads has never been permitted to reach
beyond (a) the removal of actual or immediately threatened obstructions to interstate transportation service, or
(b) obvious measures for the promotion of the safety of
such service. Employers' Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463;
Adair v. United States, 208 U. S. 161; Mondou v. New
York, N. H. & H. R. Co., 223 U. S.1; Wilson v. New, 243
U. S. 332.
The mere circumstance of engaging in interstate commerce is not decisive. The two all important considerations are (1) the duty of both employer and employee to
render the public reasonable transportation service, and
(2) the obviously direct connection between the attempted regulation and the performance of that duty.
Cf. PennsylvaniaR. Co. v. Labor Board, 261 U. S.72, 85;
Pennsylvania Railroad System v. Pennsylvania R. Co.,
267 U. S.203, 217.
In Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v. Railway Clerks, 281 U. S.
548, it was held that the Railway Labor Act of 1926,
unlike its predecessor, imposed certain definite obligations enforceable by judicial proceedings, the "outstanding feature" being the provision for an enforceable award.
The provision for free designation of representatives "for

ASSOCIATED PRESS v. LABOR BOARD.
103

109

Argument for Petitioner.

the purposes of this Act," was upheld as forming an integral part of the arbitration scheme which Congress had
devised in the exercise of its power to "facilitate the.
amicable settlement of disputes which threaten the service of the necessary agencies of interstate transportation."
The reinstatement of employees discharged during a
pending controversy was required, however, not in obedience to any express mandate of the Act, but to purge
the railroad of a contempt of the court's injunction. That
case has no bearing on the power of Congress to enforce
collective bargaining, or to compel the reinstatement of
discharged employees, in a private business.
The doctrine of the Adair case was recognized by the
Court in the Texas & New Orleans case in pointing out
that its principle was inapplicable, because the enforcement of voluntary arbitration had nothing to do with the
"normal" right of an employer to discharge his employees
at will. By the "normal exercise of the right of the carrier to select its employees or to discharge them," the
Court obviously referred to the discharge or selecticn of
employees (1) when there was no actual dispute, (2)
when there was no controversy pending before a mediation board, and (3) when the discharge was not in flagrant disobedience of an injunction properly issued by a
court of equity.
The decision in the Railroad Pension case, 295 U. S.
330, referred to the fact that the Texas case did not interfere with "normal" rights. Furthermore, the Railroad
Pension case leaves no doubt about the limited application of the Texas case, as well as all cases sustaining the
power of Congress to influence or control the relation of
employer and employee in any manner. This limited
application is conclusively shown, not only by the majority opinion, but also by the dissenting opinion of the
Chief Justice.
The decision of this Court in the Railroad Pension
case stands for the proposition, therefore, that even as

110

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Petitioner.

301 U. S.

to the railroads any compulsory control by Congress of
employer-employee relations, no matter what it may be,
is void unless it has an obvious and direct bearing on
the obligations of public service incident to the calling
of the railroads. The regulation is too remotely connected with transportation service if it merely relates to
the causes of disruptions, such as, for example, the malcontent of the persons rendering the service. To have
a direct effect upon interstate commerce the regulation
of the employment relation must at least, as Was the
case with the Railway Labor Act of 1926, facilitate the
amicable settlement of disputes which threatened the
service of the necessary agencies of interstate transportation and tended to prevent interruptions of service.
In other words, the dispute must be actual, not conjectural; the disruption of transportation service must be
presently threatened thereby, not remotely possible.
The Strike, or Anti-Trust Cases. All of the strike cases,
following the second Coronado case, 268 U. S. 295, related exclusively to the removal of existing, intentional
obstructions to interstate commerce; the injunctions were
not granted except where the actual intent or purpose of
the strikers was to prevent the flow of goods across state
lines. The same is true as to the regulation of any combination or conspiracy under the anti-trust laws. For
this reason the strike cases do not properly fall into the
category of regulations of the employer-employee relationship, but relate solely to the removal of actual and
existing obstructions to interstate commerce in the form
of a combination or conspiracy in restraint of trade.
As in the "flow" of commerce cases, heretofore discussed, it should be noted that the "strike" cases involve
a regulation of A in order to keep him from obstructing
B or depriving him of the facilities to which he is entitled. There is no indication whatever in them that an

ASSOCIATED PRESS v. LABOR BOARD. 111
103

Argument for Petitioner.

employer may be regulated to keep him from obstructing himself.
The Act violates the Fifth Amendment because its
terms are arbitrary, unreasonable and capricious, having
no real and substantial relation to the accomplishment of
legitimate ends.
The enforcement by statutory compulsion of the collective action which the Act prescribes is an arbitrary
encroachment upon the constitutional. rights of the unwilling employer and his non-consenting employees.
Exceptional circumstances being absent, the statutory
compulsion is arbitrary per se.
The Act even goes beyond the compulsory enforcement
of collective action in general in that it is designed to
compel the universal acceptance, by both employer and
employee, of a rigid and hitherto unaccepted conception
of collective action which, carried to its logical conclusion,
completely destroys the rights of the employer and his
non-consenting employees. Instead of seeking a reasonable balance between employer rights and the rights of
individual employees on the one hand, and the collective rights of employees on the other, the Act fosters the
domination of all industry by labor unions. This domination is sought, irrespective of harsh, one-sided, and
discriminatory results, as the one and only method of
adjusting inequality of bargaining between employer and
employee. That such an arbitrary program has been
adopted by the Act would seem to be apparent from no
more than a cursory consideration of the provisions of
§§8 and 9.
The Act deliberately and openly fosters the closed union
shop. The company union or any other employer-employee co6peration is outlawed. The unreasoning sweep
of the prohibition in § 8 (2) is merely emphasized by the
proviso that the employer may confer with his employees

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Petitioner.

301 U. S.

during working hours "subject to rules and regulations
made and published by the Board," but not otherwise.
Irrespective of whether or not the company union is inherently evil, it would seem on principle alone that no
law could remain reasonable and at the same time deprive both employer and employee of the advantages of
friendship, mutual loyalty and wise cooperation.
Subdivision (3) of § 8 reenacts those very restrictions
upon the employer which were declared arbitrary and invalid in the Adair and Coppage cases. The prohibition here, moreover, extends to tenure of employment as
well as to any discrimination in hire, discharge, or employment contracts. Accordingly, an employer must always find reasons which would safely withstand the scrutiny of the Board before he even went so far as to demote,
reduce the salary, or even change the routine employment
of a union man. By the same token, it would seem that
he must carefully examine his conscience and his records
before he promotes or encourages a non-union man.
These provisions against discrimination contained in
§ 8 (3) virtually place union members in a status secure against discharge or demotion however deserved.
See Rosenthal-EttlingerCo. v. Schlossberg, 266 N. Y. S.
762.
The Act expressly sanctions discriminatory closed
union shop agreements.
The Act does not permit freedom in collective bargaining by employees. On the contrary, collective bargaining
is prohibited except upon rigid conditions which are both
restrictive and discriminatory.
The only permissible bargaining unit is the one selected as appropriate by the Board, whether it be "the
employer unit, craft unit, plant unit, or subdivision
thereof." § 9 (b). The Board's discretion in making this
selection is virtually unlimited. The employer and the

ASSOCIATED PRESS v. LABOR BOARD.

113

Argument for Petitioner.

103

individual employees are utterly helpless except in so far
as they are able to influence the Board in the exercise of
its unlimited power of discrimination.
The selection of the unit appropriate for the purposes
of collective bargaining is, however, of the utmost concern
to both employee and employer, particularly because
there can be buf one, "exclusive," representative for the
entire unit.
Furthermore, the minority in the designated unit are
not only deprived of the power to contract with their employer, either individually or through representatives of
their own choosing, but they are also bound by the terms
of any agreement which the employer makes with the
representatives of the majority. See Carter v. Carter
Coal Co., 298 U. S. 238, 311.
Under this Act it is possible, either by gerrymandering
of bargaining units, or by rulings on elections, to subject
the majority employees to the will of the minority. See
Bendix Products Corp. v. Beman, 14 F. Supp. 58, 66.
Section 8 (5) provides that it is an unfair labor practice for the employer "to refuse to bargain collectively
with the representatives of his employees, subject to the
provisions of § 9 (a)." The Board has interpreted this as
imposing upon the employer an affirmative duty to bargain and negotiate with the exclusive representatives of
the unit which it prescribes. Thus, when a labor organization, such as the American Newspaper Guild, demands
a closed shop, the employer may not flatly refuse but
must seek to reach an agreement with the union. And,
in the final analysis, it is left to the Board to determine
for the employer whether or not the closed shop demand
of the union is to be accepted.
Mutuality of contract is totally lacking in that the employer, who is the only party under an obligation to "bargain," is likewise the sole party bound by an agreement.
146212°-37-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Petitioner.

301 U. S.

The employees are not bound by force of any provision
in the Act (which specifically preserves the right to
strike); nor are they bound as a matter of contract, since
they may refuse to work from the instant a "bargain"
is reached.
The "collective bargain" which the Act commands is
nothing more than "compulsory unilateral arbitration."
See Bendix Products Corp.v. Beman, 14 F. Supp. 58. This
"compulsory 'unilateral arbitration" is, therefore, much
more arbitrary than the compulsory mutual arbitration
unanimously declared invalid in Wolff Packing Co. v. Industrial Court, 262 U. S. 522' s. c., 267 U. S. 552.
It would seem to be fully demonstrated that the Act
does not seek to protect collective bargaining and collective action on the part of employees, but that it unquestionably attempts to place all labor relations in an
iron vise by reducing employment to a closed union shop
basis. This is shown not only by express sanction of
closed union shop agreements, § 8 (3), but by the requirement that the employer must bargain, § 8 (5), with
the representatives of the unit selected by the Board,
§ 9 (b), who, though having the power to bind or exclude all, § 9 (a), may not in fact represent the interests
of all the employees in such unit.
The methods of enforcement which the Act adopts are
themselyes arbitrary and unreasonably intrusive. Intrusive and unlimited power is conferred upon the Board.
,The power to compel employers to reinstate discharged
employees with back pay violates the Seventh Amendment as well as the Fifth.
It has long been a maxim of courts of equity that contracts of personal service will not be specifically enforced.
The reason for this has been the recognition that compulsory personal service is not only intolerable but that
it is seldom satisfactory from the point of view of either
party. It is true that in Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v. Rail-

ASSOCIATED PRESS v. LABOR BOARD. 115
103

Argument for Petitioner.

way Clerks, 281 U. S.548, reinstatement of employees,
discharged in defiance of an injunction, was ordered as a
proper method of purging the railroad of contempt. That
was an unusual situation where the court deemed such
extreme action- necessary in order to restore the status
quo. It does not follow that legislation may supersede
court action. Yet this, in substance, is what § 10 (c)
attempts to accomplish.
Here the Associated Press must employ a person whom
it does not want. Neither the subject, the terms, nor the
duration of the contract are of its own choosing. The
Associated Press must refrain from employing other persons more to its liking in order to leave room for Watson,
or may even be compelled to discharge some non-union
editorial employee in order to make room for Watson.
And, presumably, the Board. will maintain a constant surveillance over Watson and the Associated Press, if he is
reinstated, to be sure that he has been reinstated "to
his former position, without prejudice to any rights or
privileges previously enjoyed by him." National Labor
Relations Board v. Mackay Radio & Telegraph Co.,
87 F. (2d) 611.
It would seem that, even if the discharge were wrongful, the proper and only reasonable reparation would
be to permit Watson to sue in a court of law for damages. The order of reinstatement, however, would not
only compel the Associated Press unwillingly to accept
and pay for the personal services of Watson at the rate
in force at the time of his discharge, but it also grants
Watson, without jury trial, an award of money damages
in excess of $2,000. This it would seem is done in flagrant
violation of the Seventh Amendment which guarantees
the right to trial by jury. See case last cited.
The Act, in its application to the Associated Press, violates the First Amendment which guarantees to citizens
freedom of speech and freedom of the press.

116

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Petitioner.

301 U. S.

Watson must be re~mployed by the Associated Press
against its will, as an editorial worker in compiling and
editing news for publication in American newspapers.
This is ordered irrespective of his present capacity or
qualification or his acceptability by his employer and irrespective of whatever bias he may have acquired by
reason of his discharge.
It is asserted as the basis of jurisdiction in this case
that the question of Watson's discharge and reinstatement is a matter directly affecting the interstate commerce activities of the Associated Press and that, as Congress may regulate those interstate activities, so it must
necessarily have the power to regulate any matters which
directly affect them. The sole basis for jurisdiction in
regard to Watson's employment must, therefore, stand
or fall upon the power of Congress to regulate the activities in which the Associated Press is engaged. That is
to say, the order to reinstate Watson presupposes, and
is wholly dependent upon, the power to regulate the
gathering, production, and dissemination of news for the
American press. News and intelligence are, in disregard
of the First Amendment, treated as ordinary articles of
commerce, subject to federal supervision and control.
Logically, and on principle alone, the National Labor Relations Act, as applied to the Associated Press, is thus
an infringement upon that freedom of expression which
is the essence of free speech and of a free press.
Furthermore, the Act, as applied in this case, actually
destroys the independence of the press of this country.
Can freedom and independence of Jhe press be maintained if a federal bureau may dictate to the American
newspapers the persons they employ to prepare their
news reports? How can impartiality and independence
of reporting-be maintained under such a system of administrative supervision? How can accuracy, independ'
,ence and impartiality survive a deliberate attempt by

ASSOCIATED PRESS v. LABOR BOARD. 117
103

Argument for Respondent.

the Government to impose upon the Associated Press a
requirement that its news editors be union men?
. Interference with the internal management
of any private concern is inconsistent with due process of law.
Where, however, the private concern is not dealing in ordinary commercial commodities but is engaged exclusively in the formulation and dissemination of news for
the press, such interference is still more intolerable in
that it constitutes an encroachment upon the management and policy of the press itself. Whenever a union
editorial employee of the Associated Press is discharged,
a case is at once made for the Labor Board by the claim,
whether rightly or not, that membership in a labor organization has been discouraged or that the employee has
been discriminated against. The question of editorial
personnel then becomes a question for the Board to determine. And the management of the editorial affairs
of this great news service of the American press, in the
gathering and preparation of news, is displaced by the
Labor Board which Congress has created.
Freedom of the press and of speech, as guaranteed by
the First Amendment, means more than freedom from
censorship by government; it means that freedom of expression must be jealously protected from any form of
governmental control or influence. Near v. Minnesota,
283 U. S.697.
Freedom of expression, it would seem, is as precious
as either due process or the equal protection of law.
Grosjean v. American Press Co., 297 U. S. 233; DeJonge
v. Oregon, 299 U. S. 353.
Messrs. Charles E. Wyzanski, Jr., and Charles Fahy,
with whom Attorney General Cummings, Solicitor General Reed, and Messrs. A. H. Feller, Charles A. Horsky,
Robert B. Watts, Philip Levy, Laurence A. Knapp, and
David A. Moscovitz were on the brief, for respondent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Respondent.

301 U. S.

The power of Congress is sufficient to cope with problems raised by each new form of intercommunication
among the States. Pensacola Telegraph Co. v. Western
Union, 96 U. S. 1, 9-10; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1,
189. Assuming, arguendo, that petitioner does not sell
news, the fact is not material on the question of congressional authority. Caminetti v. United States, 242 U. S.
470; United States v. California, 297 U. S. 175, 183.
The Board was correct in finding that the editorial employees at the New York office were either in,
or intimately and directly connected with, interstate
commerce.
Subsections (1) and (3) of § 8 bear a reasonable and
direct relation to the protection of interstate commerce
from industrial strife, and are, consequently, valid. Texas
& N. 0. R. Co. v. Railway Clerks, 281 U. S. 548; Railroad Retirement Board v. Alton R. Co., 295 U. S. 330,
369. Distinguishing: Carterv. Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S.
238, 308.
Congress may control even local activity to assist in
removing a burden or injury to interstate commerce.
Schechter Poultry Corp. v. United States, 295 U. S. 495,
544.
Decisions of this Court, investigations of numerous
commissions, experience of the Government, and findings
of Congress in this Act, are in accord in the conclusion
that the provisions of subsections (1) and (3) of § 8,
will not only eliminate the causes of industrial strife
arising from attempts of employees to organize and establish the procedure of collective bargaining, but will
also, by affording a basis for amicable adjustment, reduce
industrial strife arising out of the substantive terms of
the employment contract.
We submit, therefore, that these subsections were properly applied to petitioner in this case. Indeed, the deci-

ASSOCIATED PRESS v. LABOR BOARD.
103

119

Argument for Respondent.

sion in Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v. Railway Clerks, 281 U. S.
548, seems conclusive. Moreover, apart from that case,
industrial strife in petitioner's New York City office would
seriously and directly burden interstate commerce, and
involve, at least, difficult and expensive rerouting of news,
and at most, a paralysis of much of petitioner's system.
Furthermore, the work is carried on at a "throat" of a
well-defined "flow" or "stream" of commerce, and is
therefore even more clearly within the federal power to
regulate and control. Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S. 495;
Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United States, 280 U. S. 420;
-Chicago Board of Trade v. Olsen, 262 U. S. 1.
Finally, even if it be admitted, arguendo, that editorial
employees in the New York office are engaged in some
occupation analogous to "production" or "manufacturing," we submit that the Act was properly applied under
the principles discussed in the brief for the Board in
National Labor Relations Board v. Jones & Laughlin
Steel Corp., ante, p. 1.
II. The validity of the order of the Board under the
Fifth Amendment is settled by Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v.
Railway Clerks, 281 U. S. 548. Distinguishing: Adair v.
United States, 208 U. S. 161; Coppage v. Kansas, 236
U. S. 1.
The provisions of the Act are reasonable and consonant
with due process. The procedural machinery is reasonable and well adapted to achieve its purpose. The prohibition on discriminatory discharges imposes no restriction on the normal exercise of the employer's right to
hire and discharge employees. Employees have the right
to organize for the advancement of their interests; such
organization is a vital necessity. American Foundries v.
Tri-City Council, 257 U. S. 184, 209. This right is destroyed by the unrestricted freedom of an employer to
discharge employees because of membership in a labor

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Respondent.

301 U. S.

union or participation in its affairs. The present Act
merely safeguards the recognized and essential liberty
of employees by a limited restriction on the employer's
power of discharge. Similar curtailments of employer's
liberty have repeatedly been sustained by this Court. The
principle upon which this Act is based has been developed
from over a half century of experience. It is the established policy of both Congress and many of the States.
The Act is, in fact, very limited. It does not compel organization, or the "closed shop." It does not interfere
with the employer's normal conduct of his business. It
does not fix wages or hours, or provide for compulsory arbitration of labor disputes. And it does not weaken any
of the existing laws protecting employers against illegal
action of employees or labor organizations. Cf. Local No.
167 v. United States, 291 U. S. 293.
III. That part of the order which requires restitution
of lost pay does not deprive petitioner of a jury trial in
violation of the Seventh Amendment. Texas & N. 0.
R. Co. v. Railway Clerks, 281 U. S. 548. The Seventh
Amendment applies only to rights and remedies as they
were generally known and enforced at common law,
Shields v. Thomas, 18 How. 253, 262, and consequently
has no application here. Pennsylvanid Federatiotn v.
PennsylvaniaR. Co., 267 U. S. 203, 210. The order for
back pay is merely a supplement to a decree essentially
injunctive in character. Cf. Clark v. Wooster, 119 U. S.
232.
IV. The order does not violate the guarantee of the
freedom of the press. A valid statute of general application does not become invalid when applied to the
press. Robertson v. Baldwin, 165 U. S. 275, 281; Indiana Farmer's Guide Publishing Co. v. Prairie Farmer
Publishing Co., 293 U. S. 268. The Act does not discriminate against the press, nor constitute a device to

ASSOCIATED PRESS v. LABOR BOARD. 121
103

Argument for Respondent.

limit its freedom under the guise of a regulation of commerce. Nor does it curtail the privilege of petitioner to
discharge employees who exhibit actual bias in editing
the news. Petitioner is accordingly reduced to the contention that a member of a labor organization must be
conclusively presumed to be biased, a proposition which
is obviously unsound.
V. The application of the Act to persons other than
petitioner, and certain provisions of the Act other than
those here applied to petitioner, are not in issue in the
present case. Consequently, the validity of the present
order is not to be determined by the validity of those
other provisions or applications. In any event, the applications and provisions of the Act to which petitioner
objects are clearly separable.
The jurisdiction of the Board is limited by § 10 (a)
to unfair labor practices "affecting commerce," as defined in § 2 (7) of the Act. Should the Board err in
applying the Act, the courts will correct the error by
holding that the order was unauthorized. It is clear
from the terms of the Act and its legislative history that
it was not intended to apply beyond the limits of the
commerce power as judicially defined. It cannot be urged
that the Act is invalid because it has been, in practice,
applied to all industry. That contention is based upon
a complete misapprehension of the facts. Unlike the
statutes in the Trade Mark Cases, 100 U. S. 82, and the
Employers' Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463, the present
Act is applicable on its face only to matters that are
within the power of Congress.
Nor is the Act invalid because of. the alleged invalidity
of § 8 (5). That subsection, dealing with ihe refusal
of an employer to bargain collectively, is not "inseparably connected" with the first four subsections. Congress would not have intended that the whole Act should

122

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

fall if § 8 (5) were to be declared unenforcible. The
presumption of separability arising from the separability
provision is buttressed not only by the separate listing
of the five proscribed labor practices, but also by the fact
that a substantial amount of protection of collective bargaining may be obtained by prohibition against interference with organization and free choice of representatives, even if the obligation to bargain may not itself be
enforced. The decision in Carter v. Carter Coal Co.,
298 U. S. 238, is, therefore, not in point here.
By leave of Court, briefs were filed by Messrs. Harry
Friedman and Maurice Friedman, on behalf of the Commercial Telegraphers' Union, and by Messrs. Morris L.
Ernst, Callman Gottesman and Joseph B. Ullman and
Harriet F. Pilpel, on behalf of the American Newspaper
Guild, as amici curiae, supporting the Act.
By leave of Court, a brief was filed by Mr. ElishaHanson, on behalf of the American Newspaper Publishers
Association, as amicus curiae, challenging the Act.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In this case we are to decide whether the National
Labor Relations Act,' as applied to the petitioner by an
order of the National Labor Relations Board, exceeds the
power of Congress to regulate commerce pursuant to Article I, § 8, abridges the freedom of the press guaranteed by
the First Amendment, and denies trial by jury in violation of the Seventh Amendment of the Constitution.
'July 5, 1935, c. 372, 49 Stat. 449; U. S. C. Supp. I, Tit. 29, §§ 151,
etc. The terms of the act, the procedure thereunder, and the relief
which may be granted pursuant thereto, are set- forth in the opinion

in National Labor Relations Board v. Jones & Laughlin Stel Corp.,
ante, p. 1.

ASSOCIATED PRESS v. LABOR BOARD.
103

123

Opinion of the Court.

In October, 1935, the petitioner discharged Morris Watson, an employee in its New York office. The American
Newspaper Guild, a labor organization, filed a charge with
the Board alleging that Watson's discharge was in violation of § 7 of the National Labor Relations Act, which
confers on employees the right to organize, to form, join,
or assist labor organizations, to bargain collectively
through representatives of their own choosing, and to
engage in concerted activities for the purpose of collective
bargaining or other mutual aid or protection; that the
petitioner had engaged in unfair labor practices contrary
.tosubsections (1) and (3) of § 8 by interfering with, restraining or coercing Watson in the exetcise of the rights
guaranteed him by § 7 and by discriminating against him
in respect of his tenure of employment and discouraging
his membership in a labor organization. The Board
served a complaint upon the petitioner charging unfair
labor practices affecting commerce within the meaning of
the statute. The petitioner answered admitting Watson's
discharge but denying that it was due to his joining or assisting the Guild or engaging in union activities, and
denying, on constitutional grounds, the validity of the
act and the jurisdiction of the Board.
At a hearing before a trial examiner the petitioner appeared specially and moved to dismiss the complaint on
constitutional grounds. The motion was overruled on all
grounds except upon the question whether the proceeding
was within the federal commerce power. Counsel thereupon withdrew from the hearing and the matter was further heard without the participation of the petitioner or
its counsel. After receiving voluminous evidence as to
the character of the petitioner's business, the examiner
overruled the contention that inteistate commerce was not
involved and proceeded to hear the merits. At the close of
the hearing he recommended that an order be entered
against the petitioner. Notice of the filing of this report

124

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

and of hearing thereon by the Board was given the petitioner but it failed to appear. Based upon the examiner's
report the Board made findings of fact, stated its conclusions of law, and entered an order that the Associated
Press cease and desist from discouraging membership in
the American Newspaper Guild or any other labor organization of its employees, by discharging, threatening to
discharge, or refusing to reinstate any of them for joining
the Guild or any other labor organization of its employees,
and from discriminating against any employee in respect
of hire, or tenure of employment, or any term or condition
of employment for joining the Guild or any other such
organization, and from interfering with, restraining, or
coercing its employees in the exercise of the rights guaranteed in § 7 of the Act. It further enjoined the Associated Press to offer Watson reinstatement to his former
position without prejudice to any rights and privileges
previously enjoyed by him; to make him whole for any
loss of pay suffered by reason of his discharge; to post
notices in its New York office stating it would cease and
desist from the enjoined practices, and to keep such
notices posted for thirty days.2
The petitioner refused to comply with the order, and
the Board, pursuant to § 10 (e) of the Act, petitioned the
Circuit Court of Appeals for enforcement. The petitioner
answered, again setting up its contentions with respect to
the constitutionality of the act as applied to it. After
argument, the court made a decree enforcing the order.3
In its answer to the Board's petition for enforcement,
the petitioner did riot challenge the Board's findings of
fact, and no error is assigned in this court to the action of
the Circuit Court of Appeals in adopting them. We,
therefore, accept as established that the Associated Press
'1N. L. R. B. 788.
'85 F. (2d) 56.

ASSOCIATED PRESS v. LABOR BOARD. 125
103

Opinion of the Court.

did not, as claimed in its answer before the Board, discharge Watson because of unsatisfactory service, but, on
the contrary, as found by the Board, discharged him for
his activities in connection with the Newspaper Guild.
It follows that §8, subsections (1) and (3) authorize the
order, and the only issues open here are those involving
the power of Congress under the Constitution to empower the board to make it in the circumstances.
First. Does the statute, as applied to the petitioner,
exceed the power of Congress to regulate interstate cominerce? The solution of this issue depends upon the
nature of the petitioner's activities, and Watson's relation
to them. The findings of the Board in this aspect are unchallenged, and the question becomes, therefore, solely
one of law to be answered in the light of the uncontradicted facts.
The Associated Press is a nembership corporation
under the laws of New York which does not operate for
profit but is a co6perative organization whose members
are representatives of newspapers. It has about 1350
members in the United States and practically all the
newspapers represented in its membership are conducted
for profit. Its business is the collection of news from
members and from other sources throughout the United
States and foreign countries and the compilation, formulation, and distribution thereof to its members. In the
process, the news is prepared for members' use by editing,

rewriting, selecting, or discarding, the information received, in whole or in part. The product is transmitted
to member newspapers and also to foreign agencies pursuant to mutual exchange agreements. The service is
not sold but the entire cost is apportioned amongst the
members by assessment.
Petitioner maintains its principal office in New York
City but has also division points scattered over the United

126

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

States each of which is charged with the duty of collecting information from a defined territory and preparing
and distributing it to newspapers within the assigned area
and to other division points for use within their respective
areas. Each member newspaper forwards news deemed
important to the divisional headquarters of its area. In
addition, employees of the petitioner obtain news which is
transmitted to the appropriate division headquarters to
be edited and forwarded to members within the area represented by that headquarters and to other divisions for
distribution to member newspapers within their respective areas. The means of communication commonly
used in receiving and transmitting news consists of wires
leased from telegraph and telephone companies, but messenger service, the wireless, and the mail are also employed. Each division point is connected with every
other by telegraph wire for exchange of news. Regional
circuits supplement these primary circuits. All these
lines of communication are utilized throughout the
twenty-four hours of every day.
Consideration of the relation of Watson's activities to
interstate commerce may be confined to the operations of
the New York office where he was employed. This office
is the headquarters of the Eastern Division and, through
it operates the petitioner's foreign service, with offices,
staffs, and correspondents throughout the world. News
received in New York from foreign parts, from newspaper
members within the Eastern Division, and from other
division points, is edited by employees acting under the
direction of supervising editors and, in its edited form,
is transmitted throughout the division and to the headquarters of other divisions. The distributees of any
given item are selected by those employed for the purpose in accordance with their judgment as to the usefulness of that item to the members or the divisions to which

ASSOCIATED PRESS v. LABOR BOARD. 127
103

Opinion of the Court.

it is transmitted. Thus the New York office receives and
dispatches news from and to all parts of the world, in
addition to that from.New York State and other northeastern and Middle Atlantic States which comprise the
Eastern Division. The work of the office is divided into
two departments known as the Traffic Department and
the News Department. All those employed in the actual
receipt and transmission of news are in the Traffic Department; all others, including editorial employees, are
grouped in the News Department. Watson, at the time
of his discharge, was in the latter class, whose duty is to
receive, rewrite, and file for transmission news coming
into the office. An executive news editor, assisted by
supervising editors and editorial employees, has general
charge of the revision of news received from so-called
filing editors who are in immediate charge of the telegraph wires connecting with the sources and destination
of news. These filing editors supervise the news as it
goes out from New York City; they determine what news,
from the total copy delivered to them, is to be sent over
the wires of which they have charge to the area reached
by those wires, and they have charge of rewriting such
copy as it comes from the other editors as may be appropriate for use in their respective circuits and the delivery
of the selected and rewritten news to teletype operators
for transmission over their wires. The function of editors
and editorial employees such as Watson is to determine
the news value of items received and speedily and accurately to rewrite the copy delivered to them, so that
the rewritten matter shall be delivered to the various
filing editors who are responsible for its transmission, if
appropriate, to the areas reached by their circuits.
Upon the basis of these facts the Board concluded that
the Associated Press was engaged in interstate commerce;
that Watson's services bore a direct relation to petitioner's

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

interstate commerce activities; and that labor disputes
between petitioner and employees of his class, and labor
disturbances or strikes affecting that class of employees,
tend to hinder and impede interstate commerce. These
conclusions are challenged by the petitioner.
Section 2 (6) of the Act defines the term "commerce"
as meaning "trade, traffic, commerce, transportation, or
communication among the several States . . . or between
any foreign country and any State . . ." Subsection (7)

provides: "The term 'affecting commerce' means in commerce, or burdening or obstructing commerce or the free
flow of commerce."
The Associated Press is engaged in interstate commerce
within the definition of the statute and the meaning of
Article I, § 8 of the Constitution. It is an instrumentality
set up by constituent members who are engaged in a commercial business for profit, and as such instrumentality
acts as an exchange or clearing house of news as Letween
the respective members, and as a supplier to members, of
news gathered through its own domestic and foreign
activities. These operations involve the constant use of
channels of interstate and foreign communication. They
amount to commercial intercourse, and such intercourse
is commerce within the meaning of the Constitution.4
Interstate communication of a business nature, whatever
the means of such communication, is interstate commerce
regulable by Congress under the Constitution.' This
conclusion is unaffected by the fact that the petitioner
'Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 189.
'Pensacola Telegraph Co. v. Western Union, 96 U. S. 1, 9, 10;
Federal Radio Comm'n v. Nelson Bros. Co., 289 U. S. 266, 279; International Textbook Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91, 107; Indiana Farmer's
Guide Publishing Co. v. Prairie Farmer Publishing Co., 293 U. S.
268, 276.

ASSOCIATED PRESS v. LABOR BOARD. 129
103

Opinion of the Court.

does not sell news and does not operate for profit,' or that
technically the title to the news remains in the petitioner
during interstate transmission." Petitioner being so engaged in interstate commerce, the Congress may adopt
appropriate regulations of its activities for the protection
and advancement, and for the insurance of the safety of,
such commerce.
The National Labor Relations Act seeks to protect the
employees' right of collective bargaining, and prohibits
acts of the employer discriminating against employees
for union activities and advocacy of such bargaining, by
denominating them unfair practices to be abated in accordance with the terms of the act. As is shown in the
opinion in Virginian Ry. Co. v. System Federation No.
40, 300 U. S. 515, the experience under the Railway Labor
Act has demonstrated the efficacy of such legislation
in preventing industrial strikes and obviating interference
with the flow of interstate commerce. The petitioner,
however, insists that editorial employees such as Watson
are remote from any interstate activity and their employment and tenure can have no direct or intimate relation with the course of interstate commerce. We think,
however, it is obvious that strikes or labor disturbances
amongst this class of employees would have as direct an
effect upon the activities of the petitioner as similar disturbances amongst those who operate the teletype machines or as a strike amongst the employees of telegraph
lines over which petitioner's messages travel.
In Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v. Brotherhoodof Railway and
Steamship Clerks, 281 U. S. 548, 570, we held a statute
United States v. Hill, 248 U. S. 420; United States v. Simpson, 252
U. S. 465.
'Pipe Line Cases, 234 U. S. 548, 560.
146212°-37-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

protecting the rights of collective bargaining by railway
employees was within the competence of Congress under
the commerce clause and that its provisions extended to
clerks who had no direct contact with the actual facilities
of railway transportation. We there said:
"Exercising this authority, Congress may facilitate the
amicable settlement of disputes which threaten the
service of the necessary agencies of interstate transportation. In shaping its legislation to this end, Congress was
entitled to take cognizance of actual conditions and to
address itself to practicable measures. The legality of
collective action on the part of employees in order to
safeguard their proper interests is not to be disputed. It
has long been recognized that employees are entitled to
organize for the purpose of securing the redress of
grievances and to promote agreements with employers
relating to rates of pay and conditions of work. American Steel Foundries v. Tri-City Central Trades Council,
257 U. S. 184, 209. Congress was not required to ignore
this right of the employees but could safeguard it and
seek to make their appropriate collective action an
instrument of peace rather than of strife."
In Virginian Railway Co. v. System FederationNo. 40,
supra, we have held an amendment of the Railway Labor
Act, in all material respects analogous to the statute here
under consideration, applicable to so-called back-shop
employees of railroads despite the contention that their
employment is remote from interstate transportation.
These decisions foreclose the petitioner's contention
that Watson's employment had no relation to interstate
commerce and could not be subjected to the regulatory
provisions of the National Labor Relations Act.
Second. Does the statute, as applied to the petitioner,
abridge the freedom of speech or of the press, safeguarded
by the First Amendment? We hold that it does not. It

ASSOCIATED PRESS v. LABOR BOARD. 131
103

Opinion of the Court.

is insisted that the Associated Press is in substance the
press itself, that the membership consists solely of persons who own and operate newspapers, that the news is
gathered solely for publication in the newspapers of members. Stress is laid upon the facts that this membership
consists of persons of every conceivable political,
economic, and religious view, that the one thing upon
which the members are united is that the Associated
Press shall be wholly free from partisan activity or the
expression of opinions, that it shall limit its function to
reporting events without bias in order that the citizens of
our country, if given the facts, may be able to form their
own opinions respecting them. The conclusion which
the petitioner draws is that whatever may be the case
with respect to employees in its mechanical departments
it must have absolute and unrestricted freedom to employ
and to discharge those who, like Watson, edit the news,
that there must not be the slightest opportunity for any
bias or prejudice personally entertained by an editorial
employee to color or to distort what he writes, and that
the Associated Press cannot be free to furnish unbiased
and impartial news reports unless it is equally free to
determine for itself the partiality or bias of editorial
employees. So it is said that any regulation protective of
union activities, or the right collectively to bargain on
the part of such employees, is necessarily an invalid
invasion of the freedom of the press.
We think the contention not only has no relevance
to the circumstances of the instant case but is an unsound generalization. The ostensible reason for Watson's discharge, as embodied in the records of the petitioner, is "solely on the grounds of his work not being
on a basis for which he has shown capability." The petitioner did not assert and does not now claim that he had
shown bias in the past. It does not claim that by reason

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

of his connection with the union he will be likely, as
the petitioner honestly believes, to show bias in the future. The actual reason for his discharge, as shown by
the unattacked finding of the Board, was his Guild activity and his agitation for collective bargaining. The
statute does not preclude a discharge on the ostensible
grounds for the petitioner's action; it forbids discharge
for what has been found to be the real motive of the
petitioner. These considerations answer the suggestion
that if the petitioner believed its policy of impartiality
was likely to be subverted by Watson's continued service,
Congress was without power to interdict his discharge.
No such question is here for decision. Neither before
the Board, nor in the court below, nor here has the petitioner professed such belief. It seeks to bar all regulation by contending that regulation in a situation not
presented would be invalid. Courts deal with cases upon
the basis of the facts disclosed, never with nonexistent
and assumed circumstances.
The act does not compel the petitioner to employ anyone; it does not require that the petitioner retain in its
employ an incompetent editor or one who fails faithfully
to edit the news to reflect the facts without bias or
prejudice. The act permits a discharge for any reason
other than union activity or agitation for collective bargaining with employees. The restoration of Watson to
his former position in no sense guarantees his continuance
in petitioner's employ. The petitioner is at liberty, whenever occasion may arise, to exercise its undoubted right
to sever his relationship for any cause that seems to it
proper save only as a punishment for, or discouragement
of, such activities as the act declares permssible.
The business of the Associated Press is not immune
from regulation because it is an agency of the press. The
publisher of a newspaper has no special immunity from
the application of general laws. He has no special privi-

ASSOCIATED PRESS v. LABOR BOARD. 133
103

Dissenting Opinion.

lege to invade the rights and liberties of others. He must
answer for libel.' He may be punished for contempt of
court.' He is subject to the anti-trust laws.1" Like others
he must pay equitable and nondiscriminatory taxes on
his business." The regulation here in question has no
relation whatever to the impartial distribution of news.
The order of the Board in nowise circumscribes the full
freedom and liberty of the petitioner to publish the news
as it desires it published or to enforce policies of its own
choosing with respect to the editing and rewriting of news
for publication, and the petitioner is free at any time
to discharge Watson or any editorial employee who fails
to comply with the policies it may adopt.
Third. The contentions that the act deprives the petitioner of property without due process, that the order
of the Board deprives petitioner of the right to trial
by jury, and that the act is invalid on its face because
it seeks to regulate both interstate and intrastate commerce, are sufficiently answered in the opinion in Texas
and N. 0. R. Co. v. Brotherhood of Railway and Steamship Clerks, supra, and in National Labor Relations Board
v. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp., ante, p. 1, and need
no further discussion here.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND,

dissenting.

MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE BUTLER and I think the judgment

below should be reversed.
One of the points made in the court below, and assigned
as error here is that the statute involved, as applied,
'Robertson v. Baldwin, 165 U. S. 275, 281.
Toledo Newspaper Co. v. United States, 247 U. S. 402.
Indiana Farmer's Guide Publishing Co. v. Prairie Farmer Publishing Co., supra.
' Grosjean v. American Press Co., 297 U. S. 233, 250.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Dissenting Opinion.

301 U. S.

abridges the freedom of the press in violation of the First
Amendment.
The Associated Press is engaged in collecting, editing
and distributing news to its members, publishers of some
1300 newspapers throughout the United States. These
newspapers represent many diverse policies and many
differences in point of view. It, obviously, is essential
that the news furnished should not only be without suppression but that it should be, as far as possible, free from
color, bias or distortion. Such is the long-established
policy of the Associated Press. If the Congressional act
here involved, upon its face or in its present application,
abridges the freedom of petitioner to carry its policy into
effect, the act to that extent falls under the condemnation of the First Amendment. We shall confine ourselves
to that question, the gravity of which is evident; but we
do not mean thereby to record our assent to all that has
been said with regard to other questions in the case.
The first ten amendments to the Constitution safeguard
the fundamental rights therein mentioned from every
form of unpermitted federal legislation. The due process
clause of the Fifth Amendment protects the person
against deprivation of life, liberty or property except by
due process of law. "Liberty" is a word of wide meaning,
and, without more, would have included the various liberties guaranteed by the First Amendment. De Jonge v.
Oregon, 299 U. S. 353, 364, and cases cited; Grosjean v.
American Press Co., 297 U. S. 233, 243-245; Near v. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 697, 707; Pierce v. Society of Sisters,
268 U. S. 510, 534-535.
But the framers of the Bill of Rights, regarding certain
liberties as so vital that legislative denial of them should
be specifically foreclosed, provided by the First Amendment:

ASSOCIATED PRESS v. LABOR BOARD.
103

135

Dissenting Opinion.

"Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof;
or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or
the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to
petition the Government for a redress of grievances."
The difference between the two amendments is an emphatic one and readily apparent. Deprivation of a liberty
not embraced by the First Amendment, as for example
the liberty of contract, is qualified by the phrase "without due process of law"; but those liberties enumerated in
the First Amendment are guaranteed without qualification, the object and effect of which is to put them in a
category apart and make them incapable of abridgment
by any process of law. That this is inflexibly true of the
clause in respect of religion and religious liberty cannot
be doubted; and it is true of the other clauses save as they
may be subject in some degree to rare and extreme exigencies such as, for example, a state of war. Legislation
which contravenes the liberties of the First Amendment
might not contravene liberties of another kind falling only
Within the terms of the Fifth Amendment. Thus, we
have held that the governmental power of taxation, one
of the least limitable of the powers, may not be exerted
so as to abridge the freedom of the press (Grosjean v.
American Press Co., supra), albeit the same tax might
be entirely valid if challenged under the "liberty" guaranty of the Fifth Amendment, apart from those liberties
embraced by the First. Compare Louisville & Nashville
R. Co. v. Mottley, 219 U. S.467, 482-483.
No one can read the long history which records the
stern and often bloody struggles by which these cardinal
rights were secured, without realizing how necessary it is
to preserve them against any infringement, however
slight. For, as Mr. Justice Bradley said in Boyd v. United
States, 116 U. S. 616, 635, "illegitimate and unconstitutional practices get their first footing in that way, namely,

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Dissenting Opinion.

301 U. S.

by silent approaches and slight deviations from legal
modes of procedure.

.

.

.

It is the duty of courts to be

watchful for the constitutional rights of the citizen, and
against any stealthy encroachments thereon. Their motto
should be obsta principiis." "Experience should teach
us," it was said in another case, "to be most on our guard
to protect liberty when the government's purposes are
beneficent. Men born to freedom are naturally alert to
repel invasion of their liberty by evil-minded rulers. The
greatest dangers to liberty lurk in insidious encroachment
by men of zeal, well-meaning but without understanding." Olmstead v. United States, (dissent), 277 U. S. 471,
479. A little water, trickling here and there through a
dam, is a small matter in itself; but it may be a sinister
menace to the security of the dam, which those living in
the valley below will do well to heed.
The destruction or abridgment of a free press-which
constitutes one of the most dependable avenues through
which information of public and governmental activities
may be transmitted to the people-would be an event so
evil in its consequences that the least approach toward
that end should be halted at the threshold.
The grants of the Constitution always are to be read in
the light of the restrictions. Thus, the exercise of the
power to make laws on the subject of bankruptcies, the
exercise of the war powers, of the power to tax, of the
power to exclude aliens, or of the power to regulate commerce, is each subject to the qualified restrictions of the
Fifth Amendment (Louisville Bank v. Radford, 295 U. S.
555, 589); as each, also, is subject, so far as appropriate,
to the unqualified restrictions of the First. Congress has
no power to regulate the relations of private employer and
employee as an end in itself, but only if that be an appropriate and legitimate means to a constitutional end, which
here is the regulation of interstate commerce. Assuming
that the statute upon its face satisfies this test, does the

ASSOCIATED PRESS v. LABOR BOARD. 137
103

Dissenting Opinion.

present application of it satisfy the requirement that the
freedom of the press shall not be abridged?,
Freedom is not a mere intellectual abstraction; and it
is not merely a word to adorn an oration upon occasions
of patriotic rejoicing. It is an intensely practical reality,
capable of concrete enjoyment in a multitude of ways day
by day. When applied to the press, the term freedom is
not to be narrowly confined; and it obviously means more
than publication and circulation. If freedom of the press
does not include the right to adopt and pursue a policy
without governmental restriction, it is a misnomer to call
it freedom. And we may as well deny at once the right of
the press freely to adopt a policy and pursue it, as to concede that right and deny the liberty to exercise an uncensored judgment in respect of the employment and discharge of the agents through whom the policy is to be
effectuated.
In a matter of such concern, the judgment of Congress-or, still less, the judgment of an administrative
censor-cannot, under the Constitution, be substituted
for that of the press management in respect of the employment-or discharge of employees engaged in editorial work.
The good which might come to interstate commerce o7 the
benefit which might result to a special group, however
large, must give way to that higher good of all the people
so plainly contemplated by the imperative requirement
that "Congress shall make no law . . abridging the freedom .

. of the press."

The present case illustrates the necessity for the enforcement of these principles. The board found, in effect,
that the actual reason for Watson's discharge was his
activity as a member of a labor organization in the furtherance of its aims. Accepting this as a true statement
of the reason for the discharge, let us consider the question
from the standpoint of that finding; although, as already
indicated, we are of opinion that the constitutional im-

138

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Dissenting Opinion.

301 U. S.

munity of the press does not permit any legislative restriction of the authority of a publisher, acting upon his
own judgment, to discharge anyone engaged in the editorial service. Such a restriction of itself would be an
abridgment of the freedom of the press no less than a
law restricting the constitutional liberty of one to speak
would be an abridgment of the freedom of speech.
For many years there has been contention between
labor and capital. Labor has become highly organized
in a wide effort to secure and preserve its rights. The
daily news with respect to labor disputes is now of vast
proportions; and clearly a considerable part of petitioner's
editorial service must be devoted to that subject. Such
news is not only of great public interest; but an unbiased
version of it is of the utmost public concern. To give a
group of employers on the one hand, or a labor organization on the other, power of control over such a service is
obviously to endanger the fairness and accuracy of the
service. Strong sympathy for or strong prejudice against
a given cause or the efforts made to advance it has too
often led to suppression or coloration of unwelcome facts.
It would seem to be an exercise of only reasonable prudence for an association engaged in part in supplying the
public with fair and accurate factual information with respect to the contests between labor and capital, to see that
those whose activities include that service are free from
either extreme sympathy or extreme prejudice one way
or the other. And it would be no answer to say that
dealing with news of this character constitutes only a part
of the duties of the editorial force. The interest of a
juror, for example, in the result, which excludes him from
sitting in a case, may be small and the adverse effect
upon his verdict by no means certain. Nevertheless, the
party affected cannot be called upon to assume the hazard.
In the present case, by a parity of reasoning, the hope
of benefit to a cherished cause which may bias the edi-

ASSOCIATED PRESS v. LABOR BOARD. 139
103

Dissenting Opinion.

torial employee is a contingency the risk of which the press
in the exercise of its unchallengeable freedom under the
Constitution may take or decline to take, without being
subject to any form of legislative coercion.
What, then, are the facts here involved? Morris
Watson was employed by petitioner first in 1928 as a
reporter and rewrite editor in petitioner's Chicago office.
In 1930, he was transferred to the New York office, and
there served as editorial employee until his discharge on
October 18, 1935. One of his duties was to rewrite and
supervise the news received at the New York office and
determine what portion of it should be sent to points
outside. As the court already has pointed out, he had
authority to determine the news value of items received
and was required to speedily and accurately rewrite the
copy delivered to him.
In November, 1933, Watson was instrumental in
organizing the Associated Press Unit of the New York
Newspaper Guild, a labor organization, constituting a
part of the American Newspaper Guild; and he was, from
the beginning, recognized as the outstanding union representative of the press associations. He served successively as chairman of the Associated Press Unit and as
treasurer and secretary of the New York Guild, and at
the time of his discharge was vice-president for wiring
services of the American Guild. His guild activities were
immediately objected to by petitioner; and thereafter, on
numerous occasions, these activities were objected to by
petitioner's executives and inducements were held out to
him to abandon them. The findings of the board disclose that Watson continued in various ways to promote
the interests of the guild; and there is no doubt that his
sympathies were strongly enlisted in support of the
guild's policies, whether they clashed with the policies of
petitioner or not. We do not question his right to assume and maintain that attitude. But, if petitioner con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Dissenting Opinion.

301 U. S.

cluded, qs it well could have done, that its policy to
preserve its news service free from color, bias or distortion
was likely to be subverted by Watson's retention, what
power has Congress to interfere in the face of the First
Amendment?
And that question may not be determined by considering Watson only; for the power to compel his continuance
in the service includes the power to compel the continuance of all guild members engaged in editorial work,
with the result that the application of the statute here
made, if carried to the logical extreme, would give opportunity for the guild to exercise a high degree of control
over the character of the news service. Due regard for
the constitutional guaranty requires that the publisher or
agency of the publisher of news shall be free from restraint in respect of employment in the editorial force.
And we are dealing here not with guild members employed in the mechanical or purely clerical work of the
press but with those engaged as Watson was in its editorial work and having the power thereby to affect the
execution of its policies.
An illustration may be helpful: The right to belong
to a labor union is entitled to the shield of the law, but
no more so than the right not to belong. Neither can be
proscribed. So much must be true, or we do not live in a
free land. Let us suppose the passage of a statute of like
character with that under review, having the same objective, but to be effected by forbidding the discharge of
employees on the ground not that they are but that they
are not members of a labor association. Let us suppose
further that a labor association is engaged in publishing
an interstate-circulated journal devoted to furthering the
interests of labor, and that members of its editorial staff,
resigning their membership in the association, transfer
their allegiance from the cause of the workingman to that
of the employer. Can it be doubted that an order re-

ASSOCIATED PRESS v. LABOR BOARD. 141
103

Dissenting Opinion.

quiring the reinstatement of an editorial writer who had
been discharged under these circumstances would abridge
the freedom of the press guaranteed by the First
Amendment?
And if that view of the amendment may be affirmed
in the case of a publication issued for the purpose of advancing a particular cause, how can it be denied in the
case of a press association organized to gather and edit
the news fairly and without bias or distortion for the use
of all causes? To hold that the press association must
await a concrete instance of misinterpretation of the news
before it can act is to compel it to experiment with a
doubt when it regards certainty as essential.
The conclusion that the First Amendment is here infringed does not challenge the right of employees to
organize, to bargain collectively with their employers
about wages and other matters respecting employment,
or to refuse to work except upon conditions they are willing to accept. Nor, the First Amendment aside, does it
challenge the act in so far as it is an allowable regulation
of interstate' commierce. All affirmations in respect of
these matters may be fully conceded without prejudice
to our very definite view that the application of the act
here has resulted in an unconstitutional abridgment of
the freedom of the press.
Do the people of this land-in the providence of God,
favored, as they sometimes boast, above all others in the
plenitude of their liberties-desire to preserve those so
carefully protected by the First Amendment: liberty of
religious worship, freedom of speech and of the press, and
the right as freemen peaceably to assemble and petition
their government for a redress of grievances? If so, let
them withstand all beginnings of encloachment. For the
saddest epitaph which can be carved in memory of a
vanished liberty is that it was lost because its possessors
failed to stretch forth a saving hand while yet there was
time.

