LABOR BOARD v. FRUEHAUF CO.
Statement of the Case.

1

requirements imposed for violation of the statute and are
remedies appropriate to its enforcement. The contention
under the Seventh Amendment is without merit.
Our conclusion is that the order of the Board was within
its competency and that the Act is valid as here applied.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and the cause is remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
For dissenting opinion, see p. 76.
NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v. FRUEHAUF TRAILER CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 420 and 421.

Argued February 11, 1937.-Decided April 12,
1937.

The National Labor Relations Act, and orders made under it by
the National Labor Relations Board, sustained upon the authority
of National Labor Relations Board v. Jones & Laughlin. Steel
Corp., ante, p. 1, as applied to a manufacturer of commercial
"trailers," (vehicles designed for the transportation of merchandise), having its factory in Michigan, but which obtained from
outside of Michigan more than 50% in value of the materials and
parts used in the plant, and shipped to States other than Michigan
and to foreign countries more than 80% of its finished products.
P. 53.
85 F. (2d) 391, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 299 U. S. 534, to review two decrees of the
Circuit Court of Appeals, one dismissing a petition of the
National Labor Relations Board for the enforcement of
an order made by it under the National Labor Relations
Act, the other setting the order aside at the petition of
the trailer company.
146212-37-4

50

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Petitioner.

301 U. S.

Solicitor General Reed, with whom Attorney General
Cummings and Messrs. Charles E. Wyzanski, Jr., Charles
A. Horsky, A. H. Feller, Charles Fahy, and Robert B.
Watts were on the brief, for petitioner.
Respondent's enterprise is the focal point for a stream
or flow of interstate commerce. Over 50% by value of
the raw, unfinished and other materials which are used
by the respondent in the construction of trailers are
shipped to it from other States.
More than 80% of respondent's sales are to customers
outside of Michigan. Efficiency in respondent's enterprise requires the maintenance of a steady flow of materials into and through its plant, and a steady stream of
trailers out to its purchasers.
Thus we have a large and constant movement of goods
into the Detroit plant; the briefest possible pause there,
in part for manufacture, and in part merely for the assembly of completed parts, and immediate shipment to
all parts of the United States. We submit, therefore, that
industrial strife in respondent's Detroit plant would have
the necessary effect of burdening and obstructing interstate commerce.
It is apparent that industrial strife in respondent's
plant, the largest of its kind in the United States, would
immediately curtail the movement from and into the
channels of commerce, not only of a substantial volume
of goods, but also of a substantial part of the interstate
commerce in the trailer industry as a whole. Consequently, we submit that there is a reasonable likelihood
that industrial strife in respondent's enterprise would, if
it occurred, have the necessary effect 6f substantially burdening interstate commerce.
If. as we contend, the control power of Congress extends to recurrent industrial strife in these interstate
enterprises, there can be no doubt that the order
of the Board in the present case was within its jurisdiction.

LABOR BOARD v. FRUEHAUF CO.
Opinion of the Court.

49

Mr. Thomas G. Long, with whom Mr. Victor W. Klein
was on the brief, for respondent.
They made the following points:
I. The National Labor Relations Act is not a regulation of interstate commerce but of (a) industry in general, and (b) labor relationships generally (by imposing
"collective bargaining"), and is in excess of the power
of Congress under the commerce clause and violative of
the Tenth Amendment, and hence is void in its entirety.
II. In its manufacturing operations respondent and
its production employees are not (a) in commerce, (b) in
the "stream," "current," or "flow" of commerce; and
they (c) do not "affect commerce," and hence are not
subject to federal control.
The orders of the Board here before the Court exceed
any power which Congress did or could confer upon said
Board and contravene the Tenth Amendment.
The findings of the Board in relation to the respondent
and its discharged employees (which are at all of material consequence) are arbitrary and capricious and without substantial basis in the evidence.
III. The Act is repugnant to and in violation of the
Fifth Amendment both in respect of procedural rights
and of substantive rights.
IV. The Act denies the right of trial by jury in violation of the Seventh Amendment.
V. The Act violates the First Amendment, which guarantees to citizens freedom of speech.
By leave of Court, Messrs. CharltonOgburn and Arthur
E. Reyman, as amici curiae, filed a brief on behalf of the
American Federation of Labor, supporting the Act.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
In October, 1935, charges against the respondent, Fruehauf Trailer Company, were filed with the National Labor

52

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

Relations Board. The Board issued its complaints (in
two cases) alleging that the Company was engaged in
unfair labor practices as described in §8, subdivisions (1)
and (3) of the National Labor Relations Act. 49 Stat.
449; 29 U. S. C. 151 et seq. The practices were said to
consist in the discharge of, and threats to discharge, employees because of their -affiliation with, and activity in,
the labor organization known as United Automobile
Workers Federal Labor Union No. 19375.
Notice of hearing was given and the complaints were
consolidated. Respondent appeared specially and filed
motions to dismiss the complaints upon the ground that
the Board was without jurisdiction and that the Act as
applied to respondent violated Article I, § 1, and the First,
Fifth, Seventh and Tenth Amendments of the Constitution of the United States. Answers were also filed, denying the charges and reserving the same jurisdictional and
constitutional objections. Hearing was had. The Board
received evidence upon the jurisdictional issue and, reaffirming an earlier ruling, denied the motions to dismiss.
Hearing upon the merits proceeded, and in December,
1935, the Board made its findings and entered its order.
The order required the respondent to cease and desist
from discharging, or threatening to discharge, any of its
employees because of their joining the Union; from employing detectives for the purpose of espionage within the
Union; and from interfering in any other manner with
or coercing its employees in the exercise of their right to
self-organization for. the purpose of collective bargaining
or other mutual aid or protection as guaranteed in § 7 of
the Act. The order also required the respondent to cease
and desist from discouraging membership in the Union
or, in any other labor organization of its employees, by
discrimination in regard to hire or tenure of employment.
Respondent was directed to offer reinstatement to the
employees who had been discharged, to make good their

LABOR BOARD v. FRUEHAUF CO.
49

Opinion of the Court.

losses in pay, and to post for thirty days notices that it
had complied with the order in ceasing the interferen-es
set forth.
The Circuit Court of Appeals dismissed the petition of
the Board to enforce its order and set the order aside.
85 F. (2d) 391. This Court granted certiorari.
With respect to the nature of respondent's business the
Board made the following findings: Respondent is a
corporation organized under the laws of Michigan and is
engaged in the manufacture, assembly, sale and distribution of commercial trailers and of trailer parts and accessories. The trailers are vehicles designed for the transportation of merchandise. Respondent's plant is located
in Detroit and is the largest concern of its kind in the
United States. Respondent maintains 31 branch sales
offices in 12 different States and has distributors and
dealers in the principal cities of the country. A whollyowned subsidiary operates in Toronto, Canada, where
sales are made and considerable assembly work is done
with materials obtained from the Detroit plant and in
Canada. More than 50 per cent. in value of the materials used by the respondent in manufacture, assembly
and shipping during the year 1934 were transported to its
Detroit plant from Ohio, Illinois, Indiana and other
States. Most of the lumber was transported from
southern States and most of the finished parts were transported from States other than Michigan. In 1934, respondent's sales amounted to $3,318,000. Its nearest
competitor sold only 37 per cent. of that amount. More
than 80 per cent. of its sales are of products shipped outside the State of Michigan through and to other States
and to foreign countries. Between January 1 and
November 1, 1935, 112 carloads of respondent's products
were shipped to points outside the State of Michigan by
railroad and 400 to 500 trailers with accessories were
hauled over the highways by motor trucks or tractors to

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

points outside the State. About 30 chassis a day are
finished at the Detroit plant of which 80 per cent. are
started on their way to destinations outside Michigan.
In connection with its interstate sales, respondent furnishes service in the determination of customers' needs
and assists in the laying out of special construction re,uirements. Respondeat's sales of trailers in Canada are
accomplished through its Canadian subsidiary, and its
sales in States other than Michigan are made through its
branch sales offices and its distributors and dealers. It
is a practice of respondent to consign trailers and parts
to distributors and dealers in various States with title
retained in respondent until payment is made. The
manufacturing and assembly operations at the Detroit
plant are essentially connected with and dependent upon
the purchase, sales and distribution operations without
the State of Michigan. The findings also describe various
features of respondent's manufacturing andi distributing
activities.
With respect to the alleged unfair labor practices, the
Board found in substance as follows: The United Automobile Workers Federal Labor Union No. 19375 had
been organized among the production and maintenance
employees of respondent's Detroit plant and, at the time
of the occurrences described, included 177 active members and about 100 members who at one time or another
paid dues and did not usually attend meetings. The
production and maintenance men at respondent's factory
at that time numbered about 400. Early in 1934, respondent hired a detective whose duty it was "to ferret
out the union activities of the men" and to keep the respondent informed. This, as the respondent's vice president stated, was to avoid trouble and "to keep a steady
flow of business." For purposes of deception, and in
order to make the detective eligible for membership in the

LABOR BOARD v. FRUEHAUF CO.
49

Opinion of the Court.

Union, respondent gave him employment. He joined the
Union and became its treasurer. He thus obtained a list
of all the members of the Union. He made frequent reports to respondent and with the lists thus obtained respondent's superintendent went about the factory from
time to time and warned various employees against union
activities. The result of these measures "caused suspicion, unrest and confusion among the employees." A
sub-foreman, who was later discharged, was urged by the
superintendent to resign his office in the Union and work
with the superintendent "to see that the Union did not
gain strength in the plant." The sub-foreman, who interviewed applicants for work, was also instructed by his
foreman to learn whether they belonged to a union or believed in unionism and was told that, if they did, they
would be objectionable. Respondent "determined to put
a stop to all attempts on the part of its factory workers
to form an efficient independent bargaining agency and
in furtherance of that purpose summarily discharged nine
men and threatened three others with discharge." Two
of the men were discharged before the Act became
effective.
The Board found: "As to the remaining seven men
who were discharged, the evidence is found principally in
the testimony of the discharged men and other employees.
There was no credible or substantial contradiction of this
testimony. Our conclusions as to the unfair labor practices charged are reached after a consideration of such
evidence and argument as were offered by the respondent,
who failed to produce witnesses in its own employ obviously having knowledge of the facts surrounding these
discharges, and who in its brief does not argue that its
conduct did not constitute unfair labor practices."
The Board reviewed the particular cases of discharge
and found that, in each, the employee was discharged be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

cause he joined and assisted the Union. The Board found
that as a result of the discharges the members of the
Union were coerced and restrained from any attempt to
organize for collective bargaining; that respondent's acts
"led to confusion, resentment, and bitterness among the
employees, and tended to lead to a labor dispute burdening and obstructing commerce and the free flow of commerce" between Michigan and other States and foreign
countries.
Respondent, on its part, traces the history of the development of its business from its small beginnings, emphasizing the outstanding success of its enterprise. Respondent criticises the finding as to the number of its
employees who were members of the Union and states
there was no proper basis for the finding that there were
only 400 employees in the manufacturing and production
departments. Respondent contends that the testimony
negatived any showing of labor difficulties and that since
its first operations there had not been a strike at the
plant which hampered its operations. It is also urged
that it was not shown that the discharges caused a strike
at the plant or delay in operations. Respondent points
to evidence that only 35 men voted for a strike out of a
total of 700 production and manufacturing employees;
that only 67 employees voted at the Union meeting and
that the suggestion of a strike was voted down. Respondent contends that the testimony of its vice-president showed that, in discharging and laying off men during a slack period of production, the same standard was
applied to Union and non-Union men, the determining
factors "being the efficiency of the workman, his coiperation and whether or not he appeared to have the Company's
best interests at heart in performing his duties."
Counsel
for respondent in their brief state that "Re§pondent called no witnesses and offered no proof on the

LABOR BOARD v. FRUEHAUF CO.
49

Opinion of the Court.

question of alleged unfair labor practices, except that
brought out on cross-examination of discharged employees
and fr~m witness Vosler [its vice president], called by the
Board on this phase of the case. The Company at all
times relied upon its position that the Board had neither
jurisdiction over the subject-matter of these proceedings,
nor over the person of Respondent, that the Act, as a
whole, was invalid and the attempted application thereof
by the Board to respondent in these proceedings was
unconstitutional."
The Board in its findings stated that respondent's witness, Vosler, testified that "he knew none of the facts"
surrounding any of the discharges "of his own knowledge"
and the Board commented upon the failure of respondent
to produce the foreman, or the superintendent, who were
in a position to contradict the statements of employees, if
they could be contradicted, with respect to the reasons
for the discharge.
We have examined respondent's contentions and we are
of the opinion that the findings of the Board, with respect
to the nature of the respondent's business and the circumstances of the discharges complained of, are supported
by the evidence.
The questions relating to the construction and validity
of the Act have been fully discussed in our opinion in
National Labor Relations Board v. Jones & Laughlin
Corp., ante, p. 1. We hold that the principles there
stated are applicable here. The decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals is reversed and the cause is remanded
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
For dissenting opinion, se p. 76.

