358

OCTOBER TERM,, 1936.
Syllabus.

301 U. S.

CHIPPEWA INDIANS OF MINNESOTA v. UNITED
STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 228.

Argued February 2, 1937.-Decided May 17, 1937.

1. In a suit under permissive legislation by the Chippewa Indians
of Minnesota against the United States, to recover the value of
663,421 acres of land, comprising the "diminished Red Lake
Reservation," alleged to have been ceded to the United States
under the Act of January 14, 1889, in trust for the benefit of the
plaintiffs and subsequently disposed of or appropriated by the
United States in disregard of the trust and of the rights of the
plaintiffs, held:
(1) That the question who had the Indian title to the lands
in the Red Lake Reservation prior to and at the time of the
cession was material. P. 372.
(2) The Indian title to the lands in the Red Lake Reservation prior to and at the time of the cession was in the Red Lake
bands. A contrary opinion in a report of the Committee of the
House of Representatives accompanying the bill which, with
amendments, became the Act of January 14, 1889, was based on
a misapprehension of the situation. P. 372.
(3) The Act of January 14, 1889, though declaring that as to
the Red Lake Reservation the cession should be sufficient if made
by "two-thirds of the male adults of all the Chippewa Indians
in Minnesota," should be construed, taken as a whole, as requiring
in addition the consent of two-thirds of the male adults of the
bands occupying that particular Reservation. P. 375.
(4) The cession by the Red Lake bands reserved all of the
lands described in their instrument of cession as reserved for
allotments, not merely the part of the lands so described which was
actually required to make and fill allotments at the time. P. 377.
(5) Lands of(the Red Lake ReservatioA which were intended
to be reserved -for allotments but by mutual mistake were included in the cession under the Act of 1889 and which were later
added to the reserved lands by an Executive Order, are not, in
equity, a part of the ceded areas. P. 378.

CHIPPEWA INDIANS v. U. S.
358

Opinion of the Court.

(6) An Act of February 20, 1904, adopting an agreement between the United States and the Red Lake Indians ceding in
trust a portion of their diminished reservation,-held of no aid
to the plaintiffs' claim in this case. P. 379.
2. The power of the Government to control and manage the property of its Indian wards is subject to constitutional limitations;
the lands of one tribe may not be given to another, nor may the
Government deal with the lands as its own. P. 375.
3. An Act of Congress should not be so construed as to imperil its
validity, if this may reasonably be avoided. P. 376.
80 Ct. Cls. 410, affirmed.

Appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing the petition in a suit brought by the Chippewa
Indians of Minnesota against the United States to recover the value of lands alleged to have been held in
trust for the plaintiffs and to have been disposed of or
appropriated in violation of the rights of the Indians.
The Red Lake Band of Chippewas intervened in opposition to the plaintiffs' claim.
Messrs. Webster Ballinger and D. S. Holmes for appellants.
Assistant Solicitor General Bell argued the cause, and
Solicitor General Reed, Assistant Attorney General Blair,
and Messrs. George T. Stormont, Walter C. Shoup, and
Charles A. Horsky filed a brief, on behalf of the United
States, appellee.
Mr. Fred Dennis for the Red Lake Band of Chippewa
Indians of Minnesota, intervener-appellees.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This was a suit by the Chippewa Indians.of Minnesota
against the United States to recover the value of 663,421
acres of land alleged to have been ceded to the defendant

360

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

under an express trust for the benefit of the plaintiffs and
subsequently disposed of or appropriated by the defendant in disregard of the trust and of the rights of the plaintiffs. This 663,421 acres comprised what is hereinafter
described as the diminished Red Lake Reservation.
The suit was brought and Conducted under permissive
legislation.' The defendant traversed the allegations of
the plaintiffs' petition; and by leave of court, and in
virtue of authority given in the permissive legislation,
the Red Lake Band of Chippewas intervened for the purpose of opposing the plaintiffs' claim and of protecting
its own interests. After a full hearing the court made
special findings of fact and rendered a judgment for the
defendant. 80- Ct. Cls. 410. The plaintiffs were
allowed an appeal to this Court under a special supplement to the permissive legislation.
The Chippewa Indians of Minnesota, plaintiffs below
and appellants here, comprise those who are designated
in the act of January 14, 1889, infra, as "all the Chippewa
Indians of Minnesota," otherwise described in the permissive legislation already mentioned,2 as all who are
"entitled to share in the final distribution of the permanent fund" provided for in § 7 of the act of 1889.
The findings below are too long to be repeated here
and will be much summarized.
About the beginning of the last century the Chippewas
constituted one of the larger Indian tribes in the northerly
part of the United- States. In early treaties they were
dealt with as a single tribe and were shown to be occupying a large area reaching from Lake Huron on the east
1 Act May 14, 1926, c. 300, 44 Stat. 555, as specially supplemented

May 18, 1928, c. 623, 45 Stat. 601; June 18, 1934, c. 568, 48 Stat.
979; June 22, 1936, c. 714, 49 Stat. 1826.
2 Act June 18, 1934, c. 568, 48 Stat. 979.

CHIPPEWA INDIANS v. U. S.
358

Opinion of the Court.

to and beyond Lake Superior on the west 3 In later
treaties they were regarded as divided into distinct bands;
and particular bands-in some instances a single band
and in others a limited plurality of bands-were recognized as occupying separate areas in Michigan, Wisconsin, Minnesota and eastern Dakota, and as entitled to
hold or cede the same independently of other bands and
of the Chippewas as a whole.4 Some of the bands became permanently settled in Michigan and Wisconsin.
Others-usually as a single band and exceptionally as a
group of a few bands--became the recognized occupants
and holders of twelve separate reservations in Minnesota. It is to these Minnesota bands and reservations
that this suit relates.
One of the bands in Minnesota was the Red Lake which
had come to include or be associated with the Pembina
band. For a long period these two bands had been the
exclusive occupants of the Red Lake Reservation, the
largest of all. The next largest reservation was the
White Earth. Its, occupants were mostly members of
the Mississippi bands; but some members of the latter
were occupying older reservations which the White Earth
had been designed to displace. This reservation contained an unusual proportion of land well suited for
individual Indian allotments; and a small part of it had'
been allotted to individual Indians. The ten smaller
3 Treaties Aug. 3, 1795, 7 Stat. 49; July 4, 1805, 7 Stat. 87; Nov. 17,
1807, 7 Stat. 105; Sept. 24, 1819, 7 Stat. 203; June 16, 1820, 7 Stat.
206; July 6, 1820, 7 Stat. 207; Aug. 29, 1821, 7 Stat. 218; April 19,
1825, 7 Stat. 272; Aug. 5, 1826, 7 Stat. 290; Aug. 11, 1827, 7 Stat. 303.
4 Treaties May 9, 1836, 7 Stat. 503; Jan. 14, 1837; 7 Stat. 528;
Dec. 20, 1837, 7 Stat. 547; Oct. 4, 1842, 7 Stat. 591; Aug. 2, 1847, 9
Stat. 904; Aug. 21, 1847, 9 Stat. 908; Sept. 30, 1854, 10 Stat. 1109;
Feb. 22, 1855, 10 Stat. 1165; Oct. 2, 1863, 13 Stat. 667; April 12,
1864, 13 Stat. 689; May 7, 1864, 13 Stat. 693; April 7, 1866, 14 Stat.
765; Mar. 19, 1867, 16 Stat. 719.

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

reservations require no other special mention than that
some of the Indians belonging to them had received individual allotments in them.
By an act of January 14, 1889, c. 24, 25 Stat. 642,
Congress proposed to all bands of Chippewas in Minnesota a plan for their relief and civilization through allotments in severalty, cession and sale of lands not required
for allotments, placing the proceeds of sales, less various
expenses, in a permanent interest bearing fund as hereinafter stated, using the interest for the support and education of these Indians, and ultimately distributing per
capita the principal of the fund.
The act created a commission to negotiate with the
-different bands for a complete cession to the United
States of their title and right to all of each reservation,
"except the White Earth and Red Lake reservations, and
to all and so much of these two reservations as in the
judgment of said commission is not required to make and
fill the allotments required by this and existing acts, and
shall not have been reserved by the commissioners for said
purposes."
The cession was to be made for the purposes and upon
the terms stated in the act and was to be sufficient as to
each reservation, except the Red Lake, if made in writing
by two-thirds of the male adults over eighteen years of
age in the band occupying and belonging to such reservation, and as fo the Red Lake was to be sufficient if made
in like manner "by two-thirds of the male adults of all
the Chippewa Indians in Minnesota." All cession agreewents were to become effective if and when approved by
the President.
For the purpose of ascertaining whether the proper
number of Indians joined in the cession, and for the
further purpose of making allotments and payments to

CHIPPEWA INDIANS v. U. S.
358

Opinion of the Court.

individual Indians, the act required the commissioners to
make an accurate census of each band, classifying the
members as male and female adults and male and female
minors, and further classifying the minors into those who
were and those who were not orphans.
As soon as the census was taken and the cession obtained and approved, all of the Chippewas in Minnesota,
except those on the Red Lake Reservation, were to be
removed to the White Earth Reservation; and as soon as
practicable allotments in severalty were to be made on
the Red Lake Reservation to the Indians belonging to
that reservation, and on the White Earth Reservation to
all of the other Chippewa Indians in Minnesota-all
allotments to be in conformity with the act and with another designated statute.' These provisions for allotments were qualified by other provisions to the effect,
first, that no existing allotment in any of the reservations
should be disturbed, except with .the allottee's individual
consent; secondly, that existing allotments in the White
Earth Reservation were ratified and should be adjusted
in tenure, conditions and quantity to the allotments provided for in the act; and, thirdly, that any Indian on any
of the reservations might in his discretiop take his allotment under the act on the reservation where he was so
residing, instead of being removed to and taking an allotment on the White Earth Reservation.
As soon as the cession was obtained and approved the
lands ceded to the United States were to be surveyed;
and as soon as practicable after the survey the lands so
ceded were to be examined and classified as pine lands
or agricultural lands, and such as were classified as pine
For provisions for enlarged allotments on White Earth Reservation see Act of April 28, 1904, c. 1786, 33 Stat. 539, and Fairbanksv.
United Stateb 223 U. S. 215., And for provision for enlarged allotments on Red Lake Reservation see Act of February 20, 1904, c. 161,
33 Stat. 46, 48, Article IV.

364

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

lands were to be appraised with particular regard to the
quantity and quality of the pine, and were to be sold by
the United States at public auction, for cash, at not less
than the appraised value, in forty-acre or smaller parcels.
The agricultural lands "not allotted under this act nor
reserved for the future use of said Indians" were to be disposed of by the United States to actual settlers under the
homestead law at one dollar and twenty-five cents an
acre, to be paid in five equal annual instalments.
As provided in § 7 of the act, all money accruing from
the disposal of the ceded lands, after deducting
enumerated expenses, was to be placed in the Treasury
of the United States to the credit of "all the Chippewa
Indians .in the State of Minnesota" as a permanent interest bearing fund for the period of fifty years. The
interest was to be used for the support and education of
such Indians, and at the end of the fifty years the permanent fund was to be divided and paid to "all of said
Chippewa Indians and their issue then living" in cash
and equal shares, subject to a reserved power in Congress
to make limited appropriations from the fund during the
fifty year period for the purpose of promoting civilization
and self-support among these Indians.
Under the act of 1889 the commission, besides making
the required census, conduct&d separate negotiations with
each of the bands with the following results:.
1. The Red Lake and Pembina* bands (sometimes
spoken of collectively as the Red Lake band or Red Lake
Indians), occupying and belonging to the Red Lake Reservation, ceded to the United States, for the purposes and
upon the terms stated in the act, their title and right to
all of that reservation, save a designated tract containing
661,118 acres which the commission "reserved" for the
purpose of making and filling allotments to them. The

CHIPPEWA INDIANS v. U. S.
358

365

Opinion of the Court.

cession was made by a written instrument showing what
lands were reserved, and bearing the assent of more than
two-thirds of the male adults over eighteen years of age
in those bands.
2. The bands occupying and belonging to the White
Earth Reservation, by a like instrument bearing a like
assent, ceded to the United States their title and right to
all of that reservation, save a specified -tract which the
commission had reserved for allotments. The instrument
making this cession contained a further cession by such
bands of their title and right to "all and so much of the
Red Lake Reservation as is not required and reserved under the provisions of said act to make and fill the allotments to the Red Lake Indians in quantity and manner
as therein provided."
3. As to each of the other ten reservations the band
occupying and belonging to it, by a like instrument bearing a like assent, ceded the whole of such reservation to
the United StatV, and included in the instrument a further cession respecting the Red Lake Reservation such as
was included in the cession by the Indians of the White
Earth Reservation.
4. The cession of so much of the Red Lake Reservation
as was not required and reserved for allotments had the
written assent not only of two-thirds of the male adults
over eighteen years of age in the bands of that reservation, but also of two-thirds of the male adults of such
age of all the Chippewas in Minnesota.
After making the census and obtaining the cessions the
commission transmitted, through the Commissioner of
Indian Affairs, to the Secretary of the Interior a report
accompanied by the census, the instruments of cession,
and a transcription of the negotiations with the several
bands as stenographically reported. In its report the
commission stated that the tract reserved by it from the
Red Lake Reservation for allotments to the Red Lake In-

366

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

dians, of which there were then 1,168, contained 661,118
acres, and that "this is larger than they will eventually
require, but as there are swamps and other untillable
lands therein, it cannot be reduced until after survey and
allotments shall be made."
The Secretary of the Interior transmitted the commission's report and the accompanying papers to the President for consideration by him; and on March 4, 1890, the
President approved each instrument of cession and on
the same day transmitted to the Congress for its information a statement of his approval, together with a copy of
the commission's report and of all accompanying papers
except the census rolls.'
By an act of August 19, 1890, c. 807, 26 Stat. 336, 357,
Congress recognized the cessions, as so approved, by making appropriations to carry out such provisions of the act
of 1889 as were to be given effect if and when the cessions
were obtained and approved.
In instructions issued to the commission by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, before the work of the commission
was begun, it was said:
"It has not heretofore been claimed by anyone, and so
far as the knowledge of this office extends, and certainly
not by the Indians themselves, that the Red Lake Reservation is the common property of all the Chippewa
Indians in Minnesota. None but the Red Lake and
Pembina bands have ever claimed an interest in said
reservation, and said bands have always been recognized
and regarded as the sole owners by right of original
Indian occupancy, the lands having never been ceded to
the United States." And the commission was further
0

House Ex. Doc. No. 247, 51st Cong., 1st Sess.

CHIPPEWA INDIANS v. U. S.
358

367

Opinion of the Court.

instructed that it was "necessary to exercise great care
to reserve a sufficient area of land to make the required
allotments"; and also that "the boundaries of the tracts
so reserved . . . must be definitely determined and fixed
and accurately described so that the Indians . . . [will
know] just what and how much land they are parting
with."
The minutes of the negotiations by the commission
vith the Indians of the Red Lake Reservation show that
the commission assured these Indians that the land which
it would reserve out of that reservation would belong to
them and their children; that enough land would be
reserved for them and their descendants for all purposes;
that no other Indians would have any right therein; and
that no allotments would be made immediately out of the
land reserved. The minutes further show that a line was
drawn on paper which the Indians said marked the re'servation which they wished to have; that after further
consultations between the commissioners and the Indians
the line marking the part to be reserved was agreed upon;
and one of the commissioners then said there was some
doubt whether the Government would approve of their
yielding so much, but "we will do the best we can."
From the evidence as a whole the court below found that
"the statements of the commissioners at the council meeting prior to the execution of the agreement (instrument
of cession) were such that the Red Lake Indians would
and did understand therefrom that they were not ceding
any portion of their lands which in the agreemeit was
specified as reserved."
November 8, 1892, the chairman of the commission, in
a letter to-the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, stated in
substance that the commission had used an unofficial map
to guide it and the Indians in bounding and describing

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

-

301 U. S.

the land which was being reserved from the Red Lake
Reservation; that this map was faulty and misleading in
respect of the lower Red Lake around which part of the
tract intended to be reserved was located; and that to
"preserve faith with the Indians" he recommended that
certain described lands omitted from the reservation. made
by the commission "be reserved from sale and added to
said reservation." In further support of his recommendation he said "It was with great reluctance that they (the
Indians) gave up any part of the upper lake, and if any
part of the lower lake shall be taken from them they will
think they were deceived or advantage taken of their
ignorance." This letter was laid before the President
with approving letters from the Commissioner of Indian
Affairs and the Secretary of the Interior, and on November 21, 1892, the President made an Executive Order reserving the described lands from sale and adding them to
the reservation made by the commission. The added
lands comprised 2,303 acres theretofore included, apparently unintentionally, in the cession by the Red Lake
Indians.
Continuously since the making of the Executive Order
the lands thereby added to the reservation made by the
commission have been treated by the United States as a
part of that reservation, and the reservation as thus
changed or corrected has been known as the diminished
Red Lake Reservation.
No allotments in severalty have as yet been made cn
this diminished reservation, because the Red Lake
Indians have thus far opposed the present making of such
allotments and the administrative officers have not as yet
considered it practicable to make them.
By an act of February 20, 1904, c. 161, 33 Stat. 46, 48,
Congress modified and adopted an agreement negotiated

CHIPPEWA INDIANS v. U. S.
358

Opinion of the Court.

by an United States Indian inspector with the Red Lake
Indians whereby the latter ceded to the United States a.
tract containing 256152 acres out of the diminished Red
Lake Reservation. This cession was in trust that the
lands be sold by the United States and the proceeds be
placed in the Treasury of the United States in a trust
fund to the credit of the Red Lake Indians and be paid
to them in stated installments. Articles 4 and 5 of the
agreement declared:
"It is further agreed that the said Indians belonging on
the said Red Lake Indian Reservation, Minnesota, shall
possess their diminished reservation independent of all
other bands of the Chippewa Tribe of Indians and shall
be entitled to allotments thereon of one hundred and
sixty acres each, of either agricultural or pine land, the
different classes of land, to be apportioned as equitably
as possible among the allottees."
"It is understood that nothing in this agreement shall
be construed to deprive the said Indians belonging on the
Red Lake Indian Reservation, Minnesota, of any benefits to which they are entitled under existing treaties or
agreements not inconsistent with the provisions of this
agreement. It is the intention of this agreement that the
United States shall act as trustee for said Indians to dispose of said land and to expend and pay over the proceeds as received from the sale thereof only as received,
as herein provided."
The United States has been holding and now holds the
diminished Red Lake Reservation and all monies derived
therefrom, for the'sole and exclusive benefit of the Red
Lake Indians, and not for the benefit of the Chippewa
Indians of Minnesota, who brought this suit,
The tract reserved by the commission out of the Red
Lake Reservation at the time of the cession under the act
146212-

37------24

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

of 1889 contained 661,118 acres. The lands added to this
-reserved tract by the Executive Order of November 21,
1892, comprised 2,303 acres, making, the so-called diminished Red Lake Reservation contain 663,421 acres. The
tract ceded from this diminished reservation by the Red
Lake Indians in the agreement embodied in the act of
February 20, 1904, contained 256,152 acres.
The number of Red Lake Indians belonging to the Red
Lake Reservation was, oh March 4, 1890, 1,168; on February 20, 1904, 1,418; on February 26, 1927, the date of
suit, 1,736; and, in 1932, 1,881.
In many acts passed since March 4, 1890, and cited in
Findings 34, 35 and 36 of the court below (80 Ct. Cls. 410,
455-458), Congress has recognized the Red Lake Indians
as'entitled, exclusive of other Chippewas, to the diminished Red Lake Reservation and to all proceeds therefrom.
Other matters shown in the findings will be mentioned
later on.
The claims presented by the. plaintiffs' petition and
pressed in the court below were overlapping in part and
substantially to the effect, first, that the lands reserved
by the commission out of the Red Lake Reservation were
only temporarily reserved for the purpose of making allotments to the Red Lake Indians at the time, in the quantity and of the character specified in the act of 1889; that
subject only to such filling of these allotments the lands
reserved were included in the cession and became part of
the estate. which the United States was to hold in trust
for the benefit of all the Chippewa Indians in Minnesota;
and that by subsequently failing to make any allotments
from the reserved lands and permanently appropriating
all of them, through the act of February 20, 1904, to the
use and benefit of the Red Lake Indians, to the exclusion

CHIPPEWA INDIANS v. U. S.
358

Opinion of the Court.

of all other Chippewas, the United States wrongfully
disposed of the lands in disregard of its trust obligations
and of the rights of the plaintiffs, and thereby became
liable to the plaintiffs for the value of the lands, or at
least for the value of. such of them as were not needed to
fill the allotments which were to be made from them;
secondly, that by adding to the reserved lands, through
the Executive Order, 2,303 acres which had been included
in the cession, the United States wrongfully withdrew
the added lands from the trust estate and appropriated
them to the use and benefit of the Red Lake Indians, to
the exclusion of all other Chippewas, thereby becoming
liable to the plaintiffs for their value; and, thirdly, that
by the act of February 20, 1904,. the United States wrongfully took 256,152 acres of the reserved, lands from the
trust estate and applied them to a new and different trust
for the benefit of the Red Lake Indians, to the exclusion
of all other Chippewas, and thereby became liable to the
plaintiffs for the value of such of them as were not sold
and for the proceeds from such as were sold.
From the findings made and from an examination of
the instruments of cession and of the treaties, statutes
and public documents referred to in the findings, the
court below reached the conclusion that up to the time of
the cession under the act of 18S9 the Red Lake Indians
had the full Indian title to the Red Lake Reservation,
to the exclusion of all other Chippewas; that the lands
reserved by the commission were not included in the
cession, but explicitly rieserved- therefrom, and therefore
the Indian title to them remained in the Red Lake Indians; that the lands which the Executive Order added
to those which were so reserved were by mutual mistake
included in the cession instead of being included in those
reserved, and therefore the Executive Order should be
regarded as having appropriately corrected that mistake

372

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

and made effective the true intention of the parties; and
that in these circumstances the plaintiffs were not injured or entitled to recover by reason of any of the matters complained of, and their petition should be dismissed.
1. Complaint is madeof the action of the court in regarding the Indian title to the lands in the Red Lake
Reservation prior to and at the time of the cession as
material. Plainly the complaint is without merit.
Whether the title was in the Red Lake bands alone or in
all of the Minnesota bands has a material bearing on the
construction and effect of the cession, and also on the
.tiAestion of who, after the cession, had the title to the
lands reserved.
2. Complaint7 is next made of the holding that the Indian title prior to and at the time of the cession was in
the Red Lake bands. While there appears to have been
some diversity of opinion on this question, we are of
opinion that the court's solution of it is right. For a
long period the Red Lake bands had been in the
exclusive occupancy of the lands in the Red Lake Reservation, None of the other Minnesota Bands disputed
this occupancy or the right to it.. Some had in treaties
relinquished all right to areas which included that reservation,7 and others hadi recognized the occupancy and
title of the Red Lake bands by both ceding and accepting adjacent lands expressly described as bounded on "the
line of the Red Lake Reservation." 8 The officers of the
United States charged with the administration of Indian
affairs also had'recognized, repeatedly and consistently,
TTreaties September 30, 1854, 10 Stat. 1109; February 22, 1855, 10
Stat. 1165; August 7, 1866, 14 Stat. 765.
s Treaty May 7, 1864, 13 Stat. 693; Executive Order March 18,
1879, concerning White Earth Reservation. Executive Orders Relating to Indian Reservations (1912), p. 87..

CHIPPEWA INDIANS v. U. S.
358

Opinion of the Court.

the occupancy and title of the Red Lake bands. Typical
of such recognitions is a letter of January 8, 1889, by the
Commissioner of Indian Affairs, which was written with
the approval of the Secretary of the Interior for the information of the President. In the letter it was said:
"None of the Indians in that State, except the Red Lake
Indians, have any right, title or interest in the Red Lake
Reservation."
The recognition of a Chippewa band as having title to
a reservation occupied by it was not confined to the Red
Lake bands or to the Red Lake Reservation. On the
contrary, it had long been the settled rule in respect of
the Chippewa Indians in Minnesota that a band or bands
occupying a separate reservation should be regarded and
dealt with as having the full Indian title to the lands
therein. The Indians both recognized and gave effect to
the rule. Many cessions were negotiated and carried out
in conformity with it. The band or bands occupying a
reservation ceded it in whole or in part without any participation by other bands and received and enjoyed the
compensation without sharing it with -others. Under the
rule each of the bands existing in 1889 had theretofore
made cessions and received pay therefor quite independently of the other bands. By a treaty of October 2, 1863,
13 Stat. 667, the United States negotiated a treaty with
the Red Lake and Pembina bands whereby these bands
ceded to the United States a described part of the lands
then "owned and claimed by them," and the United
States, in consideration of the cession, agreed to pay "to
the said Red Lake and Pembina bands" a stated sum per
annum for'a limited period. In Article 6 of the treaty
the lands not ceded were called "the reservation," and
thereafter were regarded by the United States and the
Indians as constituting the Red Lake Reservation.9 The
9Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S' 373, 389-390; United States v.
Holt State Bank, 270 U. S. 49, 58.

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

treaty of 1863 was confirmed, with modifications not material here, by a treaty of April 12, 1864, with the same
Indians, 13 Stat. 689. No other band participated in
that cession or shared, or sought to share, in the compensation.
This array of matters making strongly for full Indian
title in the Red Lake bands prior to and at the time of
the cession of 1889 encounters direct contradiction in the
report made to the House of Representatives by its committee on Indian affairs when presenting the bill which,
after many amendments, became the act of 1889."0 In
that report it was said:
"All of the Indians in Minnesota are members of the
great Chippewa family, which has for generations occupied the northern and northeastern half of the State.
There are now in all about 7,500 of these Indians, who
occupy reservations and unceded lands amounting in the
aggregate to about 4,700,000 acres of land.
"The so-called Red Lake Reservation is simply a remnant of unceded Indian territory occupied at present by
the Red Lake band, but really the common property, so
far as the Indian title is concerned, of all the Chippewa
Indians in Minnesota.
"All the Chippewas in Minnesota really belong to one
family, and this Red Lake Reservation is really a remnant
of all that country once occupied by them in common,
and thus a sort of common property."
In so far as the committee report states that the title
to the lands in the Red Lake Reservation was held in
common by all of the Chippewa Indians in Minnesota,
rather than by the Red Lake bands, it is at variance with
10 House Report No. 789, 50th Congress, 1st Sess.; Cong. Rec., 50th

Congress, 1st Sess., Vol. 19, pt. 9, pp. 9130-9131.

CHIPPEWA INDIANS v. U. S.
358

Opinion of the Court.

what is otherwise indubitably shown, and evidently is
based on a serious misapprehension of .the real situation.
It overlooks treaties wherein most of the other bands relinquished areas which included the lands in the Red
Lake Reservation; takes no account of the rule, long
applied by the Government and the Chippewa Indians,
whereby a band or bands occupying a separate reservation were regarded as having the title to the lands therein
and entitled to hold or cede them independently of other
bands; puts aside the treaties of 1863 and 1864 which
recognized the Red Lake and Pembina bands as owning
the lands occupied by them, and also as entitled to make
cessions therefrom without consulting other bands; fails
to consider the absence of any claim by other bands to
an interest in the lands of the Red Lake Reservation;
and gives no effect to a formidable body of legislative
and administrative action and opinion whereby the Red
Lake bands, and they alone, were uniformly recognized
as both occupying and having the Indian title to the lands
in that reservation. It therefore is plain that the report
cannot be taken as overcoming the facts- otherwise indubitably shown.
3. Next it is insisted that even though the Indian title
was in the Red Lake bands, Congress in § 1 of the act
of 1889, declared that as to the Red Lake Reservation
the cession should be sufficient if made by "two-thirds of
the male adults of all the Chippewa Indians in Minnesota," and thereby enabled the Chippewas as a whole to
cede that reservation, even over the objection of the Red
Lake bands. To this we do not agree. Our decisions,
while recognizing that the government has power to control and manage the property and affairs of its Indian
wards in good faith for their welfare, show that this power
is subject to constitutional limitations and does not enable the government to give the lands of one tribe or band

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.

376

Opinion of the Court.

301 U.S.

to another, or to deal with them as its own. 1 And, of
course, an act of Congress should not be given a construction which will imperil its validity where it is reasonably open to a construction free from such peril. 2 The
provision in § 1 of the act of 1889, on which the appellants rely, is, in our opinion, reasonably open to a construction certainly consistent with its validity. The section directs the commission to negotiate with "all the
different bands" for a cession of all of the reservations,
except parts of two, and then provides that the cession
shall be sufficient "a§ to each and all of said several
reservations, except as to the Red Lake Reservation," if
made by two-thirds of the male adults of the band occupying and belonging to such reservation, and "as to the
Red Lake Reservation" shall be sufficient if made "by
two-thirds of the male adults of all the Chippewa Indians
in Minnesota." A fairly admissible meaning of this is
that negotiations were to be had with each and all
of the bands, including those occupying the Red Lake
Reservation; that the cession as to each reservation was
to be by at least. two-thirds of the male adults of the
band occupying the same; and that as to the Red Lake
Reservation the cession was to be not only by two-thirds
of the male adults of the bands occupying that reservation but also by two-thirds of the male adults of all the
Chippewa Indians in Minnesota. To save the section
from questionable validity, this meaning should be preferred to one involving a purpose to authorize a cession
as to that reservation without the assent of the bands
occupying it. The additional requirement as to it that the
cession have the assent of two-thirds of the male adults
1

Lane v. Santa Rosa, 249 U. S. 110, 113; United States v. Creek

Nation, 295 U. S. 103, 109-110; Shoshone Tribe v. United States, 299
U. S. 476, 497.
12 PanamaR. Co. v. Johnson, 264 U. S. 375, 390; Anniston Mfg. Co.
v. Davis, (this day decided), ante, p. 337.

CHIPPEWA INDIANS v. U. S.
358

Opinion of the Court.

of all the Chippewa Indians of Minnesota may well be
regarded as precautionary and intended, in view of the
statements in the committee's report, to accomplish a
cession which would be effective whether the title was in
the Red Lake bands, as the administrative officers were
holding, or was held in common by all the Minnesota
Chippewas, as the committee stated. In this view of the
section-which we think the right one-the act cannot be
* held to evince a purpose to take from one band without
its assent and give to others. The commission evidently
understood the provision as we do, for they went first to
the Red Lake bands and there announced that the negotiations, if not resulting in the requisite assent of those
bands, would be abandoned.
4. It is further insisted that the court erred in holding
that none of the lands described in the instrument of cession as reserved by the commission for allotments was
ceded, instead of holding that all were ceded, save those
actually required to make and fill allotments at the time,
in the quantity and of the character described in the act
of 1889. We regard the holding, as right. The act was
not intended to secure a cession of all of the Red Lake
Reservation, but only of so much of it as "in the judgment of said commission" was not required to make and
fill the intended allotments, and was not "reserved by the
commissioners" for that purpose. And the allotments
were to be made, not within any definite period, but "as
soon as practicable." The instrument of cession declared
that the Red Lake bands ceded all of their reservation
not included within designated boundaries and that the
lands embraced within those boundaries had been reserved by the commissioners for the purpose of making
and filling allotments. Thus it showed what lands were
ceded and what were reserved. The act committed to the
"judgment of the commission" the determination of how
much and what would be required for allotments, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

laid on the commissioners the duty of reserving lands
accordingly. The instrument of cession shows that the
commission attended to these tasks. Whether the tasks
were performed with appropriate wisdom is not open to
inquiry in this suit. The instrument of cession, showing
the lands ceded and the lands reserved, was examined
by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs and the Secretary
of the Interior and was then submitted to and approved
by the President. With that approval it became effective. The lands which were reserved were not ceded,
either by the terms of the instrument of cession or
through the operation of the act. The Indian title to
them remained after the cession, as before, in the Red
Lake bands. The act contemplated their use in making
allotments to members of those bands; but, as they were
not ceded but reserved from the cession, the matter of
whether and when they shall be allotted rests with the
government and those bands and is not of any concern,
in the sense of the law, to the other bands.
The cession of the Red Lake Reservation by the Indians of the other reservations differs in words from that
by the Red Lake bands, but we regard them as in substance-identical and as conforming to the act.
5. Error is also assigned on the court's ruling respecting the Executive Order of November 21, 1892, whereby
2,303 acres of the lands ceded under the act of 1889 were
added to the lands reserved for allotments. The basis
for this order, shortly stated, is that the lands so added
were intended by the commission and the Indians to be
included in the lands reserved and were by mutual mistake, incident to the use of an unofficial and faulty map,
included among those ceded. Evidently the Red Lake
bands were equitably entitled to have the mistake corrected. No intervening right stood in the way. The mistaken cession was to the United States, in trust for the
ultimate benefit of Indian wards. In this situation we
slTould hesitate a good dbal before holding that the Presi-

OLD COLONY CO. v. COMM'R.
Syllabus.

358

dent's authority over Indian affairs is not broad enough
to warrant a correction of the mistake by an Executive
Order." But, this aside, the appellants are without right
to recover in respect of the lands which were the subject
of the mistake. Save for it the lands would have been
reserved, not included in the cession. Therefore, the ap-pellants' interest in them through the cession and trust
was colorable only, and in an appropriate proceeding,
brought with the consent of the United States, the mistake could and doubtless would have been corrected.
So, in no admissible view of the Executive Order can it
be said to have worked any real injury to the appellants.
6. So much of the appellants' claim as is grounded on
what was done by and under the act of February 20, 1904,
is disposed of adversely to them by what already has been
said respecting the title to the lands reservbd from the
cession of 1889.
It results that the judgment must. stand.
Judgment affirmed.
OLD COLONY TRUST CO. v. COMMISSIONER OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 703.

Argued April 29, 30, 1937.-Decided May 17, 1937.

1. In the computation of the net income of a trust, § 162 of the
Revenue Act of 1928 allows deduction of any part of the gross income, without limitation, which "pursuant to" the terms of the
deed creating the trust is during the tax year paid to charities,
etc. Held that payments are "pursuant to" the deed when authorized, though not imperatively directed, by it. P. 383.
2. "Ptirsuant to" is defined. P. 383.
13 Rev. Stats. §§ 463, 465; West v. Hitchcock, 205 U. S.80, 84-85;
Williams v. United States, 138 U. S.514, 524; Knight v. U. S. Land
Assn., 142 U. S.161, 177, et seq.; United States v. -Mid West Oil Co.,
236 U. S.459, 469, et seq.

