242 .

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

301 U. S.

HERNDON v. LOWRY, SHERIFF.
APPEALS FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF GEORGIA.

Nos. 474 and 475.

Argued February 8, 1937.-Decided April 26,
1937.

1. A federal constitutional question going to the validity of a conviction of crime under a state statute was not decided on an
appeal to the state supreme court because not properly raised
(See Herndon v. Georgia, 295 U. S. 441). Afterwards that court
considered the question and decided it against the convict, in a
habeas corpus proceeding. Held that the scope of habeas corpus,
in the circumstances, was a local question and that the ruling on
the federal question was open to review by this Court. P. 247.
2. A state statute punishing as a crime the acts of soliciting members for a political party and conducting meetings of a local unit
of that party, where one of the doctrines of the party, established
by reference to a document not shown to have been exhibited to
anyone by the accused, may be said to be ultimate resort to
violence in the indefinite future against organized government,
unwarrantably invades the liberty of free speech and so violates
the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 260.
3. The power of a State to abridge freedom of speech and of assembly is the exception rather than the rule; and the penalizing
even of utterances of a defined character must find its justification
in a reasonable apprehension of danger to organized government.
The limitation upon individual liberty must have appropriate relation to the safety of the State. Legislation which goes beyond
this need violates the Constitution. P. 258.
4. The affirmance by the Supreme Court of a State of a conviction
under a statute as having support in the evidence, necessarily
construes the statute as authorizing punishment for the act so
proven. P. 255.
5. Section 56 of the Penal Code of Georgia, as construed by the
Supreme Court of the State, punishes, as an attempt to incite
to insurrection, any attempt to induce others to join in any
combined resistance to the lawful authority of the State. As an
element, the accused must have contemplated resistance by force,
but in thiE respect he may be found guilty if he intended that an
insurrection "should happen during any time within which he
might reasonably expect his influence to continue to be directly

HERNDON v. LOWRY.
242

Opinion of the 0:,urt.

operative in causing such action by those whom he sought to
induce." Held that the statute, as construed and applied in this
case, is repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment in that it furnishes no sufficiently ascertainable standard of guilt and interferes
unduly with freedom of speech and of assembly. Pp. 253. 261.
182 Ga. 582; 186 S. E. 429, reversed.
APPEALS from judgments, rendered on cross-appeals, in
a habeas corpus proceeding. The court below sustained
the trial court in deciding that the criminal statute inyolved did not infringe liberty of speech and assembly,
but differed with its holding that the statute was too
vague and indefinite, and reversed its decision discharging
the appellant here.

Mr. Whitney North Seymour, with whom Messrs.
W. A. Sutherland, Herbert T. Wechsler, and Carol King
were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. J. Walter LeCraw, Assistant Solicitor General of
Georgia, with whom Messrs. M. J. Yeomans, Attorney
General, and John A. Boykin, Solicitor General, were on
the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The appellant claims his conviction in a state court
deprived him of his liberty contrary to the guarantees of
the Fourteenth Amendment. He assigns as error the
action of the Supreme Court of Georgia in overruling his
claim and refusing him a discharge upon habeas corpus.
The petition for the writ, presented to the Superior Court
of Fulton County, asserted the appellant was unlawfully
detained by the appellee as sheriff under the supposed
authority of a judgment pronouncing him guilty of attempting to incite insurrection, as defined in § 56 of
the Penal Code, and sentencing him to imprisonment

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court,

301 U. S.

for not less than eighteen nor more than twenty years.
Attached were copies of the judgment and the indictment
and a statement of the evidence upon which the verdict
and judgment were founded. The petition alleged the
judgment and sentence were void and appellant's detention illegal because the statute under which he was convicted denies and illegally restrains his freedom of speech
and of assembly and is too vague and indefinite to provide
a sufficiently ascertainable standard of guilt, and further
alleged that there had been no adjudication by any court
of the constitutional validity of the statute as applied
to appellant's conduct. A writ issued. The appellee
answered, demurred specially to, and moved to strike, so
much of the petition as incorporated the evidence taken
at the trial. At the hearing the statement of the evi.dence was identified and was conceded by the appellee to
be full and accurate. The court denied the motion to
strike, overruled the special demurrer and an objection
to the admission of the trial record, decided that the
statute, as construed and applied in the trial of the appellant, did not infringe his liberty of speech and of assembly but ran afoul of the Fourteenth Amendment because too vague and indefinite to provide a sufficiently
ascertainable standard of guilt, and ordered the prisoner's
discharge from custody. The appellee took the case to
the Supreme Court of Georgia, assigning as error the rulilg upon his demurrer, motion, and objection, and the
decision against the validity of the statute. The appellant, in accordance with the state practice, also appealed,
assigning as error the decision with respect to his right of
free speech and of assembly. The two appeals were
separately docketed but considered in a single opinion
which reversed the judgment on the appellee's appeal and
affirmed on that of the appellant,1 concluding: "Under
'182 Ga. 582; 186 S. E. 429.

HERNDON v. LOWRY.
242

Otinion of the Court.

the pleadings and the evidence, which embraced the
record on the trial that resulted in the conviction, the
court erred, in the habeas corpus proceeding, in refusing
to remand the prisoner to the custody of the officers."
The federal questions presented, and the manner in
which they arise, appear from the record of appellant's
trial and conviction embodied in the petition, and from
the opinions of the State Supreme Court in the criminal
proceeding.
At the July Term 1932 of the Superior Court of Fulton
County an indictment was returned charging against the
appellant an attempt to induce others to join in combined resistance to the lawful authority of the state with
intent to deny, to defeat, and to overthrow such authority by open force, violent means, and unlawful acts; alleging that insurrection was intended to be manifested
and accomplished by unlawful and violent acts. The indicfment specified that the attempt was made by calling
and attending public assemblies and by making speeches
for the purpose of organizing and establishing groups and
combinations of white and colored persons under the
name of the Communist Party a Atlanta for the purpose
of uniting, combining, and conspiring to incite riots and
to embarrass and impede the orderly processes of the
courts and offering combined resistanbe to, and, by forde
and violence, overthrowing and defeating the authority
of the state; that by speech and persuasion, the appellant
solicited and attempted to solicit persons to join, confederate with, and become members of the Communist
Party and the Young Cofmmunist League and introduced
irfto the state and circulated, aided and assisted in introducing and circulating, booklets, papers, and other writings with the same intent and purpose. The charge was
founded on § 56 of the Penal Code, one of four related
sections. Section 55 defines insurrection, § 56 defines an
attempt to incite insurrection, § 57 prescribes the death

-946

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

penalty for conviction of the offenses described in the
two preceding sections unless the jury shall recommend
mercy, and § 58 penalizes, by imprisonment, the introduction and circulation of printed matter for the purpose
of inciting insurrection, riot, conspiracy, etc. The sections are copied in the margin.2
The appellant Was brought to trial and convicted. He
appealed on the ground that, under the statute as construed by the trial court in its instructions to the jury,
there was no evidence to sustain a verdict of guilty.
The Supreme Court affirmed the judgment upon a broader
and different construction of the Act.8 The appellant
moved for a rehearing, contending, inter alia, that, as so
construed, the statute violated the Fourteenth Amendment. The court refused to pass upon the constitutional
questions thus raised, elaborated and explained its construction of the statute in its original opinion, and de"55. Insurrection shall consist in any combined resistance to the
lawful 4thority of the State, with intent to the denial thereof, when
the saie is manifested or intended to be manifested by acts of
violence.
"56. Any attempt, by persuasion or otherwise, to induce others to
join in any combined resistance to the lawful authority of the State
shall constitute an attempt to incite insurrection.
"57. Any person convicted of the offense of insurrection, or an at;.
tempt to incite insurrection, shall be punished with death; or, if the
jury. recommend to mercy, confinement in the penitentiary for not less
than five nor more than 20 years.
"58. If any person shall bring, introduce, print, or circulate, or cause
to be introduced, circulated, or printed, or aid or assist, or be in any
manneiL instrumental in bringing, introducing, circulating, or printing
within this State any paper, pamphlet, circular, or any writing, for the
purpose of inciting insurrection, riot, conspiracy, or resistance against
the lawful authority of the State, or against the lives of the inhabitants thereof, or any part of them, he shall be punished by confinement in the penitentiary for not less than five nor longer than 20
years." (Georgia Code, 1933, §§ 26-901 to 26-904, inclusive.)
3Herndon v, State, 178 Ga, 832; 174 S. E. 597.

HERNDON v. LOWRY.
242

Opinion of the Court.

nied a rehearing.4 The appellant perfected an appeal to
this court claiming that he had timely raised the federal
questions and we, therefore, had jurisdiction to decide
them. We held we were without jurisdiction." Upon his
commitment to serve his sentence he sought the writ of
habeas corpus.
In the present proceeding the Superior Court and Supreme Court of Georgia have considered and disposed of
the contentions based upon the Federal Constitution. The
scope of a habeas corpus proceeding in the circumstances
disclosed is a state and not a federal question and since
the state courts treated the proceeding as properly raising issues of federal constitutional right, we have jurisdiction and all such issues are open here. We must, then,
inquire whether the statute as applied in the trial
denied appellant rights safeguarded by the Fourteenth
Amendment.
The evidence on which the judgment rests consists of
appellant's admissions and certain documents found in
his possession. The appellant told the state's officers
that some time prior to his arrest he joined the Communist Party in Kentucky and later came to Atlanta
as a paid organizer for the party, his duties being to
call meetings, to educate and disseminate information
respecting the party, to distribute literature, to secure
members, and to work up an organization of the party
in Atlanta; and that he had held or attended three meetings called by him. He made no further, admission as
to what he did as an organizer, or what he said or did
at the meetings. When arrested he carried a box containing documents. After he was arrested he conducted
the officers to his room where additional documents and
bundles of newspapers and periodicals were found, which
'Herndon v. State, 179 Ga. 597; 176 S. E. 620.
Herndon v. Georgia, 295 U. S. 441.

248

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

he stated were sent him from the headquarters of the
Communist Party in New York. He gave the names of
persons who were members of the organization in Atlanta, and stated he had only five or six actual members
at 'the time of his apprehension. The stubs of membership books found in the box indicated he had enrolled
more members than he stated. There was no evidence
that he had distributed any of the material carried on
his person and found in his room, or had taken any of it
to meetings, save two circulars or appeals respecting
county relief which are confessedly innocuous.
The newspapers, pamphlets, periodicals, and other
documents found in his room were, so he stated, intended for distribution at his meetings. These the appellee concedes were not introduced in evidence. Certain documents in his possession when he was arrested
were placed in evidence. They fall into five classes:
first, receipt books showing receipts of small sums of
money, pads containing certificates of contributions to
the Communist Party's Presidential Election Campaign
Fund, receipts for rent of a post office box, and Communist Party membership books; secondly, printed
matter consisting of magazines, pamphlets, and copies
of the "Daily Worker," styled the "Central Organ of
the Communist Party," and the "Southern Worker,"
also, apparently, an official newspaper of the party;
thirdly, two books, one "Life and Struggles of Negro
Toilers," by George Padmore, and the other "Communism and Christianism Analyzed and Contrasted from
the Marxian and Darwinian Points of View" by Rt. Rev.
William Montgomery Brown, D. D.; fourthly, transcripts
of minutes of meetings apparently held in Atlanta;
fifthly, two circulars, one of which was prepared by the
appellant and both of which had been circulated by him
in Fulton County. All of these may be dismissed as
irrelevant except those falling within the first and second

HERNDON v. LOWRY.
242

Opinion of the Court.

groups. No inference can be drawn from the possession
of the books mentioned, either that they embodied the
doctrines of the Communist Party or that they represented views advocated by the appellant. The minutes
of meetings contain nothing indicating the purposes of
the organization or any intent to overthrow organized
government; on the contrary, they indicate merely discussion of relief for the unemployed. The two circulars,
admittedly distributed by the appellant, had nothing to
,do with the Communist Party, its aims or purposes, and
were not appeals to join the party but were concerned
with unemployment relief in the county and included
appeals to the white and negro unemployed to organize
and represent the need for further county aid. They
were characterized by the Supreme Court of Georgia as
''more or less harmless."
The documents of the first class disclose the activity
of the appellant as an organizer but, in this respect, add
nothing to his admissions.
The matter appearing upon the membership blanks
is innocent upon its fac6 however foolish and pernicious
the aims it suggests. Under the heading "What is the
Communist Party?" this appears:
"The Party is the vanguard of the working class and
consists of the best, most class conscious, most active,
the most courageous members of that class. It incorporates the whole body of experience of the proletarian
struggle, basing itself upon the revolutionary theory of
Marxism and representing the general and lasting interests of the whole of the working class, the Party personifies the unity of proletarian principles, of proletarian will
and of proletarian revolutionary action.
"We are the Party of the working class. Consequently,
nearly the whole of that class (in time of war and civil
war, the whole of that class) should work under the
guidance of our Party, should create the closest contacts
with our Party."

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

This vague declaration falls short of an attempt to
bring about insurrection either immediately or within a
reasonable time but amounts merely to a statement of
ultimate ideals. The blanks, however, indicate more
specific aims for which members of the Communist Party
are to vote. They are to vote Communist for
"1. Unemployment and Social Insurance at the expense of the State and employers.
"2. Against Hoover's wage-cutting policy.
"3. Emergency relief for the poor farmers without restrictions by the government and banks; exemption of
poor farmers from taxes and from forced collection of
rents or debts.
"4. Equal rights for the Negroes and self-determination for the Black Belt.
"5. Against capitalistic terror: against all forms of
suppression of the political rights of the workers.
"6. Against imperialist war; for the defense of the
Chinese people and of the Soviet Union."
None of these aims is criminal upon its face. As to one,
the 4th, the claim is that criminality may be found because of extrinsic facts. Those facts consist of possession
by appellant of booklets and other literature of the second class illustrating the party doctrines. The State contends these show that the purposes of the Communist
Party were forcible subversion of the lawful authority of
Georgia. They contain, inter alia, statements to the effect that the party bases itself upon the revolutionary
theory of Marxism, opposes "bosses' wars," approves of
the Soviet Union, and desires the "smashing" of the National Guard, the C. M. T. C., and the R. 0. T. C. But
the State especially relies upon a booklet entitled "The
Communist Position on the Negro Question," on the
cover of which appears a map of the United States having a dark belt across certain Southern states and the

HERNDON v. LOWRY.
242

Opinion of the Court.

phrase "Self-Determination for the Black Belt." The
booklet affirms that the source of the Communist slogan
"Right of Self-Determination of the Negroes in the Black
Belt" is a resolution of the Communist International on
the Negro question in the United States adopted in 1930,
which states that the Communist Party in the United
States has been actively attempting to win increasing sympathy among the negro population, that certain things
have been advocated for the benefit of the Negroes in.the
Northern states, but that in the Southern portion of the
United States the Communist slogan must be "The Right
of Self-Determination of the Negroes in the Black Belt."
The resolution defines the meaning of the slogan as
"(a) Confiscation of the landed property of the white
landowners and capitalists for the benefit of the negro
farmers .
.
Without this revolutionary measure,
without the agrarian revolution, the right of self-determination of the Negro population would be only a Utopia or, at best, would remain only on paper without
changing in any way the actual enslavement."
"(b) Establishment of the State Unity of the Black
Belt . . . If the right of self-determination of the Negroes is to be put into force, it is necessary wherever possible to bring together into one governmental unit all districts of the South where the majority of the settled
population consists of negroes .
"(c) Right of Self-Determination. This means complete
and unlimited right of the negro majority to exercise governmental authority in the entire territory of the Black
Belt, as well as to decide upon the relations between their
territory and other nations, particularly the United
States . . . First of all, true right to self-determination means that the negro majority and not the white
minority in the entire territory of the administratively

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

united Black Belt exercises the right of administering
governmental, legislative, and judicial authority. At the
present time all this power is concentrated in the hands
of the white bourgeoisie and landlords. It is they who
appoint all officials, it is they who dispose of public property, it is they who determine the taxes, it is they who
govern and make the laws. Therefore, the overthrow of
this class rule in the Black Belt is unconditionally necessary in the struggle for the negroes' right to self-determination. This, however, means at the same time the
overthrow of the yoke of American imperialism in the
Black Belt on which the forces of the local white bourgeoisie depend. Only in this way, only if the negro population of the Black Belt wins its freedom from American imperialism even to the point of deciding itself the
relations between its country and other governments, especially the United States, will it win real and complete
self-determination. One should demand from the beginning that no armed forces of American imperialism should
remain on the territory of the Black Belt."
Further statements appearing in the pamphlet are:
"Even if the situation does not yet warrant the raising
of the question of uprising, one should not limit oneself
at present to propaganda for the demand, 'Right to SelfDetermination,' but should organize mass actions, such
as demonstrations, strikes, tax boycott movements, etc."
"One cannot deny that it is just possible for the negro
population of the Black Belt to win the right to selfdetermination during capitalism; but it is perfectly clear
and indubitable that this is possible only through successful revolutionary struggle for power against the American
bourgeoisie, through wresting the negroes' right of selfdetermination from American imperialism. Thus, the
slogan of right to self-determination is a real slogan of
National Rebellion which, to be considered as such, need

HERNDON v. LOWRY.
242

-

Opinion of the Court.

not be supplemented by proclaiming struggle for the complete separation of the negro zone, at least not at
present."
There is more of the same purport, particularly references to the "revolutionary trade unions in the South,"
"revolutionary struggle against the ruling white bourgeoisie," and "revolutionary program of the Communist
Party."
There is no evidence the appellant distributed any
writings or printed matter found in the box he carried
when arrested, or any other advocating forcible subversion
of governmental authority. There is no evidence the appellant advocated, by speech' or written word, at meetings
or elsewhere, any doctrine or action implying such forcible
subversion. There is evidence tending to prove that the
appellant held meetings for the purpose of recruiting
members of the Communist Party and solicited contributions for the support of that party and there is proof of
the doctrines which that party espouses. Appellant's intent to incite insurrection, if it is to be found, must rest
upon his procuring members for the Communist Party
and his possession of that party's literature when he was
arrested.
Section 55 of the Georgia Penal Code defines insurrection as "combined resistance to the lawful authority of
the State, with intent to the denial thereof, when the
same is manifested or intended to be manifested by acts
of violence." 8 The appellant was not indicted under this
section. Section 58 denounces the introduction, printing,
or circulation, or assisting to print or circulate any document "for the purpose of inciting insurrection." The
appellant was not indicted under this section.
Section 56, -under which the indictment is laid, makes
no reference to force or violence except by the phrase
'Note 2, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court. *

301 U. S.

"combined resistance to the lawful authority of the
State." The Supreme Court evidently importing from
the similar phraseology in § 55 the additional element
contained in that section, namely, "manifested or intended
to be manifested by acts of violence," has decided that
intended resort to force is an essential element of the
offense defined by § 56.
To ascertain how the Act is held to apply to the appellant's conduct we turn to the ruling3 of the state
courts in his case. The trial court instructed the jury:
"In order to convict the defendant, . . . it must appear
clearly by the evidence that immediate serious violence
against the State of Georgia was to be expected or advocated." The jury rendered a verdict of guilty. In the
Supreme Court the appellant urged that the evidence was
wholly insufficient to sustain the verdict under the law
as thus construed. That court sustained the conviction
by construing the statute thus:
"Force must have been contemplated, but, as said
above, the statute does not include either its occurrence
or its imminence as an ingredient of the particular offense
charged. . . . Nor would it be necessary to guilt that
,the alleged offender should have intended that an insurrection should follow instantly or at any given time, but
it would be sufficient that he intended it to happen at
any time, as a result of his influence, by those whom he
sought to incite." '
Upon application for rehearing the court further elaborated its views as to the meaning of the statute:
"Force must have been contemplated, but the statute
does not include either its occurrence or its imminence
as an ingredient of the particular offense charged. Nor
would it b necessary to guilt that the alleged offender
178 Ga. 855, 174 S. E. 597.

HERNDON v. LOWRY.
242

Opinion of the Court.

should have intended that an insurrection should follow
instantly or at any given time, but as to this element it
would be sufficient if he intended that it should happen
at any time within which he might reasonably expect his
influence to continue to be directly operative in causing
such action by those whom he sought to induce. ..." I
The affirmance of conviction upon the trial record necessarily gives § 56 the construction that one who seeks
members for or attempts to organize a local unit of a
party which has the purposes and objects disclosed by the
documents in evidence may be found guilty of an attempt
to incite insurrection.
The questions are whether this construction and application of the statute deprives the accused of the right of
freedom of speech and of assembly guaranteed by the
Fourteenth Amendment, and whether the statute so construed and applied furnishes a reasonably definite and
ascertainable standard of guilt.
The appellant, while admitting that -the people may
protect themselves against abuses of the freedom of
speech safeguarded by the Fourteenth Amendment by
prohibiting incitement to violence and crime, insists that
legislative regulation may not go beyond measures forefending against "clear and present danger" of the use of
force against the state. For this position he relies upon
our decisions under the Federal Espionage Acts' and
cognate state legislation. These made it criminal wilfully
to cause or to attempt to cause, or incite or attempt to
incite, insubordination, disloyalty, mutiny or refusal of
duty in the military or naval forces of the United States
or wilfully to obstruct or attempt to obstruct the recruiting or enlistment service of the United States or to con'179 Ga. 600, 176 S. E. 622.
'Act of June 15, 1917, c. 30, 40 Stat. 217, 219; amended by Act of
May 16, 1918, c. 75, 40 Stat. 553.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

spire for these purposes. We sustained the power of the
government or a state to protect the war operations of
the United States by punishing intentional interference
with them. We recognized, however, that words may be
spoken or written for various purposes and that wilful
and intentional interference with the described operations
of the government might be inferred from the time, place,
and circumstances of the act. "The question in every case
is whether the words used are used in such circumstances
and are of such a nature as to create a clear and present
danger that they will bring about the substantive evils
that Congress has a right to prevent. It is a question of
proximity and degree." 10
The legislation under review differs radically from the
Espionage Acts in that it does not deal with a wilful attempt to obstruct a described and defined activity of the
government.
The State, on the other hand, insists that our decisions
uphold state statutes making criminal utterances which
have a "dangerous tendency" towards the subversion of
government. It relies particularly upon Gitlow v. New
York, 268 U. S. 652. There, however, we dealt with a
statute which; quite unlike § 56 of the Georgia Criminal
Code, denounced as criminal certain acts carefully and
adequately described. We said:
"And a State may penalize utterances which openly
advocate the overthrow of the representative and constitutional form of government of the United States and
the several States, by violence or other unlawful means."
(p. 668.)
1

oSee Schenck v. United States, 249 U. S. 47, 52; Frohwerk v.

United States, 249 U. S. 204; Debs v. United.States, 249 U. S. 211;
Abrams v. United States, 250 U. S. 616; Schaefer v, United States,
251 U. S. 466; Pierce v. United States, 252 U. S. 239; O'Connell v.
United States, 253 U. S. 142; State v. Holm, 139 Minn. 267; 166
N. W. 181; Gilbert v. Minnesota, 254 U. S. 325. ,

HERNDON v. LOWRY.
242

Opinion of the Court.

"By enacting the present statute the State has determined, through its legislative body, that utterances advocating the overthrow of organized government by force,
violence and unlawful means, are so inimical to the general welfare and involve such danger of substantive evil
that they may be penalized in the exercise of its police
power. That determination must be given great weight.
Every presumption is to be indulged in favor of the
validity of the statute. Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623,
661. And the case is to be considered 'in the light of
the principle that the State is primarily the judge of
regulations required in the interest of public safety and
welfare;' and that its police 'statutes may only be declared unconstitutional where they are arbitrary or unreasonable attempts to exercise authority vested in the
State in the public interest.' " (p. 668.)
And it was in connection with the statute there involved
that the court quoted language relied upon below and in
argument here from People v. Lloyd, 304 Ill. 23; 136
N. E. 505, to the effect that a state is not compelled
to delay adoption of such preventive measures until the
apprehended danger becomes certain. Out of excess of
caution the distinction was again clearly drawn between
acts of the order of the Espionage Act and the New York
act under review.
"... when the legislative body has determined generally, in the constitutional exercise of it§ discretion, that
utterances of a certain kind involve such danger of substantive evil that they may be punished, the question
whether any specific utterance coming within the prohibited class is likely, in and of itself, to bring about the
substantive evil, is not open to consideration. It is sufficient that .the statute itself be constitutional and that
the use of the language comes within -its prohibition.
"It is clear that the question in such cases is entirely
different from that involved in those cases where the
146212'-37-1 7

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

statute merely prohibits certain acts involving the danger
of substantive evil, without any reference to language
itself, and it is sought to apply its provisions to language
used by the defendant for the purpose of bringing about
the prohibited results. There, if it be contended that
the statute cannot be applied to the language used by
the defendant because of its protection by the freedom
of speech or press, it must necessarily be found, as an
original question, without any previous determination
by the legislative body, whether the specific language
used involved such likelihood of bringing about the substantive evil as to deprive it of the constitutional protection." (pp. 670-671.)
It is evident that the decision sustaining the New York
statute furnishes no warrant for the appellee's contention
that under a law general in its description of the mischief
to be remedied and equally general in respect of the intent of the actor, the standard of guilt may be made the
"dangerous tendency" of his words.
The power of a state to abridge freedom of speech and
of assembly is the exception rather than the rule and the
penalizing even of utterances of a defined character must
find its justification in a reasonable apprehension of danger to organized government. The judgment of the legislature is not unfettered. The limitation upon individual
liberty must have appropriate relation to the safety of
the state. Legislation which goes beyond this need violates the principle of the Constitution. If, therefore, a
state statute penalize innocent participation in a meeting
held with an innocent purpose merely because the meeting was held under the auspices of an organization membership in which, or the advocacy of whose principles, is
also denounced as criminal, the law, so construed and applied, goes beyond the power to restrict abuses of freedom

HERNDON v. LOWRY.
242

259

Opinion of the Court.

of speech and arbitrarily denies that freedom." And,
where a statute is so vague and uncertain as to make
criminal an utterance or an act which may be innocently
said or done with no intent to induce resort to violence
or on the other hand may be said or done with a purpose
violently to subvert government, a conviction under such
a law cannot be sustained. Upon this view we held bad a
statute of California providing that "Any person who displays a red flag, . . . in any public place or in any
meeting place or public assembly, or from or on any
house, building or window as a sign, symbol or emblem
of opposition to organized government
is guilty
of a felony." 12
After pointing out that peaceful agitation for a change
of our form of government is within the guaranteed liberty of speech, we said of the act in question: "A statute
which upon its face, and as authoritatively construed, is
so vague and indefinite as to permit the punishment of
the fair use of this opportunity is repugnant to the guaranty of liberty contained in the Fourteenth Amendment."
(p. 369.)
1. The appellant had a constitutional right to address
meetings and organize parties unless in so doing he violated some prohibition of a valid statute. The only prohibition he is said to have violated is that of § 56 forbidding incitement or attempted incitement to insurrection
by violence. If the evidence fails to show that he did
so incite, then, as applied to him, the statute unreasonably limits freedom of speech and freedom of assembly
and violates the Fourteenth Amendment. We are of
opinion that the requisite proof is lacking. From what
has been said above with respect to the evidence offered at
'1 DeJonge vOregon, 299 U. S. 353.
12 Stromberg v. California, 283 U. S. 359.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

the trial it is apparent that the documents found upon
the appellant's person were certainly, as to some of the
aims stated therein, innocent and consistent with peaceful
action for a change in the laws or the constitution. The
proof wholly fails to show that the appellant had read
these documents; that he had distributed any of them;
that he believed and advocated any or all of the principles and aims set forth in them, or that those he had procured to become members of the party knew or approved
of any of these documents.
Thus, the crucial question is not the formal interpretation of the statute by the Supreme Court of Georgia
but the application given it. In its application the
offense made criminal is that of soliciting membcrs for
a political party and conducting meetings of a local unit
of that party when one of the doctrines of the party,
established by reference to a document not shown to
have been exhibited to anyone by the accused, may be
said to be ultimate resort to violence at some indefinite
future time against organized government. It is to be
borne in mind that the legislature of Georgia has not
made membership in the Communist Party unlawful
by reason of its supposed dangerous tendency even in the
remote future. The question is not whether Georgia
might, in analogy to what other states have done, so
declare." The appellant induced others to become members of the Communist Party. Did he thus incite to
insurrection by reason of the fact that they agreed to
abide by the tenets of the party, some of them lawful,
others, as may be assumed, unlawful, in the absence of
proof that he brought the unlawful aims to their notice,
that he approved them, or that the fantastic program
'See the statutes drawn in question in Gitlow v. New York, 268
U. S. 652, at 654, and in Whitney v. California, 274 U. S. 357, 359.

HERNDON v. LOWRY.
242

Opinion of the Court.

they .envisaged was conceived of by anyone as more than
an ultimate ideal? Doubtless circumstantial evidence
might affect the answer to the question if appellant had
been shown to have said that the Black Belt should be
organized at once as a separate state and that that objective was one of his principal aims. But here circumstantial evidence is all to the opposite effect. The only
objectives appellant is proved to have urged are those
having to do with unemployment and emergency relief
which are void of criminality. His membership in the
Communist Party and his solicitation of a few members
wholly fails to establish an attempt. to incite others to
insurrection. Indeed, so far as appears, he had but a
single copy of the booklet the State claims to be objectionable; that copy he retained. The same may be said
with respect to the other books and pamphlets, some of
them of more innocent purport. In these circumstances,
to make membership in the party and solicitation of
members for .that party a criminal offense, punishable
by death, in the discretion of a jury, is an unwarranted
invasion of the right of freedom of speech.
2. The statute, as construed and applied ii the appellant's trial, does not furnish a sufficiently ascertainable
standard of guilt. The Act does not prohibit incitement
to violent interference with any given activity or operation of the state. By force of it, as construed, the judge
and jury trying an alleged offender cannot appraise the
circumstances and character of the defendant's utterances
or activities as begetting a clear and present danger of
forcible obstruction of a particular state function. Nor
is any specified conduct or utterance of the accused made
an offense.
The test of guilt is thus formulated by the Supreme
Court of the state. Forcible action must have been contemplated but it would be sufficient to sustain a con-

262

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

viction if the accused intended that an insurrection
"should happen at any time within which he might reasonably expect his influence to continue to be directly
operative in causing such action by those whom he sought
to induce." If the jury conclude that the defendant
should have contemplated that any act or utterance of
his in opposition to the established order or advocating
a change in that order, might, in the distant future,
eventuate in a combination to offer forcible resistance to
the State, or as the State says, if the jury believe he
should have known that his words would have "a
dangerous tendency" then he may be convicted. To be
guilty under the law, as construed, a defendant need not
advocate resort to force. He need not teach any particular doctrine to come within its purview. Indeed, he
need not be active in the formation of a combination or
group if he agitate for a change in the frame of government, however peaceful his own intent. If, by the
exercise of prophesy, he can forecast that, as a result of
a chain of causation, following his proposed action a
group may arise at some future date which will resort to
force, he is bound to make the prophesy and abstain,
under pain of punishment, possibly of execution. Every
person who attacks existing conditions, who agitates for
a change in the form of government, must take the. risk
that if a jury should be of opinion he ought to have foreseen that his utterances might contribute in any measure
to some future forcible resistance to the existing government he may be convicted of the offense of inciting insurrection. Proof that the accused in fact believed that
his effort would cause a violent assault upon the state
would not be necessary to conviction. It would be sufficient if the jury thought he reasonably might foretell that
those he persuaded to join the party might, at some time
in the indefinite future, resort to forcible resistance of

HERNDON v. LOWRY.
242

Opinion of the Court.

government. The question thus proposed to a jury involves pure speculation as to future trends of thought
and action. Within what time might one reasonably expect that an attempted organization of the Communist
Party in the United States would result in violent action
by that party? If a jury returned a special verdict saying twenty years or even fifty years the verdict could not
be shown to be wrong. The law, as thus construed,
licenses the jury to create its own standard in each case.
In this aspect what was said in United States v. Cohen
Grocery Co., 255 U. S. 81, is particularly apposite:
"Observe that the section forbids no specific or definite
act. It confines the subject-matter of the investigation
which it authorizes to -no element essentially inhering in
the transaction as to which it provides. It leaves open,
therefore, the widest conceivable inquiry, the scope of
which no one can foresee and the result of which no one
can foreshadow or adequately guard against. In fact, we
see no reason to doubt the soundness of the observation
of the court below; in its opinion, to the effect that, to
attempt to enforce the section would be the exact equivalent of an effort to carry out a statute which in terms
merely penalized and punished all acts detrimental to the
public interest when unjust and unreasonable in the estimation of the court and jury . . ." (p. 89.)
The decisions relied on by the State held the Sherman
Law furnished a reasonable standard of guilt because it
made a standard long recognized by the common law the
statutory test.14
The statute, as construed and applied, amounts merely
to a dragnet which may enmesh anyone who agitates for
a change of government if a jury can be persuaded that
he ought to have foreseen his words would have some
4

Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 212 U. S. 86; Nash v. United

States, 229 U. S. 373.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
VAN DEVANTER,

J., dissenting.

301 U. S.

effect in the future conduct of others. No reasonably ascertainable standard of guilt is prescribed. So vague and
indeterminate are the boundaries thus set to the freedom of speech and assembly that the law necessarily violates the guarantees of liberty embodied in the Fourteenth Amendment.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, dissenting.
I am of opinion that the Georgia statute, as construed
and applied by the supreme court of the State in Herndon's case, prescribes a reasonably definite and ascertainable standard by which to determine the guilt or innocence of the accused, and does not encroach on his right
of freedom of speech or of assembly.
It plainly appears, I think, that the offense defined in
the statute, and of which Herndon was convicted, was
not that of advocating a change in the state government
by lawful means, such as an orderly exertion of the elective franchise or of the power to amend the state constitution, but was that of attempting to induce and incite others to join in combined forcible resistance to the
lawful authority of the State.
Sections 55, 56 and 57 of the Penal Code of Georgia'
deal with insurrection, attempts to incite insurrection,
and the punishment therefor, and are so closely related
that all evidently have a. bearing on the scope and meaning of any one of them. Section 55 denounces insurrection and defines it as "any combined resistance to the
lawful authority of the State, with intent to the denial
thereof, when the same is manifested or intended to be
manifested by acts of violence." Section 56 denounces
'Georgia Code 1933. §§ 26-901, 26-902, 26-903.

HERNDON v. LOWRY.
242

VAN DEVANTER,

J., dissenting.

an attempt to incite insurrection and defines it as "any
attempt, by persuasion or otherwise, to induce others to
join in any combined resistance to the lawful authority
of the State." Section 57 prescribes the punishment for
each of these offenses.
While § 56 does not in direct terms include force or
violence as a feature of the "combined resistance to the
lawful authority of the State" the attempt to induce
which it denounces, the supreme court of the State has
construed the section, doubtless by reason of its relation
to the others, as making intended resort to force or violence an essential element of such "combined resistance." 2
Therefore the section must be taken as if expressly embodying this construction. It was under § 56 that Herndon was indicted, tried and convicted.
By the indictment he was charged with attempting to
induce others to join in combined resistance to the lawful authority of the State "by open force and by violent
means, and by unlawful acts," the modes of attempted
inducement being specified. Upon the trial the court
instructed the jury that neither "possession of literature
insurrectionary in its nature" nor "engaging in academic
or philosophical discussion of abstract principles of economics or political or other subjects, however radical or
revolutionary in their nature," would warrant a conviction; and that a verdict of guilt could not be gi' en unless
it clearly appeared from the evidence that "immediate
serious violence against the State" was expected or advocated by the accused.
In affirming the conviction the supreme court of the
State held that under the statute "force must have been
contemplated," but that it is not necessary to guilt that
the accused "should have intended that an insurrection
' Carr v. State, 176 Ga. 747; 169 S. E. 201; Herndon v. State, 178
Ga. 832, 855; 174 S. E. 597.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
VAN

DEVANTER,

J., dissenting.

301 U. S.

should follow instantly or at any given time, but it would
be sufficient that he intended it to happen at any time,
as a result" of his persuasion-the intent of the statute
being "to arrest at its incipiency any effort to overthrow
the state government, where it takes the form of an actual
attempt to incite others to insurrection."
Then, coming to consider the sufficiency of the evidence,
the supreme court stated: "From what has been said,
the question here is simply this: did the evidence show
that the defendant made any attempt to induce others
to come together in any combined forcible resistance to
the lawful authority of the State?" And the court concluded its consideration of this question by saying, "The
jury were amply authorized to infer that violence was
intended and that the defendant did attempt to induce
others to combine in such resistance to the lawful authority of the State." (Italics supplied.)'
The accused sought a rehearing, largely because of his
understanding of what was said in the court's opinion
respecting the expected time of the intended resort to
force. A rehearing was denied, and in that connection
the court said: 4
"The language used by this court should be considered
with the usual reasonable implications. The phrase 'at
any time,' as criticized in the motion for rehearing, was
not intended to mean at any time in the indefinite future,
or at any possible later time, however remote. An activity now could hardly be expected to be the direct
producing cause of an insurrection after the lapse of a
great period of time, and it was not the purpose of this
court to suggest that as to the mental requisite any such
intent would be a sufficient ingredient of an attempt to
incite an insurrection. On the contrary the phrase 'at
'Herndon v. State, 178 Ga. 832, 855, 867; 174 S. E. 597.
'Herndon v. State, 179 Ga. 597, 599; 176 S. E. 620.

HERNDON v. LOWRY.
242

VAN DEVANTER,

J., dissenting.

any time' was necessarily intended, and should have
been understood, to mean within a reasonable time; that
is, Within such time as one's persuasion or other adopted
means might reasonably be expected to be directly operative in causing an insurrection. Accordingly, the
statements by this court as quoted in the motion for rehearing are to be accepted in the following sense:
Force must have been contemplated, but the statute
does not include either its occurrence or its imminence
as an ingredient of the particular offense charged. Nor
would it be necessary to guilt that the alleged offender
should have intended that an insurrection should follow
instantly or at any given time, but as to this element
it would be sufficient if he intended that it should happen
at any time within which he might reasonably expect
his influence to continue to be directly operative in
causing such action by those whom he sought to induce.
This statement, considered with what was said in the
original decision, represents the view of this court as to
the proper construction of the statute under consideration; and under the statute as thus interpreted, we say,
as before, that the evidence was sufficient to authorize
the conviction. In view of what has been said above,
it would seem that all contentions made in the motion
for rehearing should necessarily fail, based, as they are,
upon an erroneous construction of our decision." (Italics
supplied.)
It thus is made quite plain that the case proceeded
from beginning to end, and in both state courts, upon
the theory that the offense denounced by the statute and
charged in the indictment was that of attempting to induce and incite others to join in combined forcible resistance to the lawful authority of the State; that the jury
returned a verdict of guilty upon that theory; and that
it was upon the same theory that the supreme court held

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
VAN DEVANTER, J,, dissenting.

301 U. S.

the jury's verdict was supported by the evidence, and
affirmed the conviction.
The present appeal is not from that judgment of
affirmance but from a judgment denying a subsequent
petition for habeas corpus.
If it be assumed that on this appeal the evidence produced on the trial in the criminal case may be examined
to ascertain how the statute was applied, I am of opinion, after such an examination, that the statute was
applied as if the words "combined resistance" therein
were in letter and meaning "combined forcible resistance."
The evidence, all of which is embodied in the present
record, will be here stated in reduced volume without
omitting anything material.
Herndon is a negro and a member of the Communist
Party of the U. S. A., which is a section of the Communist International. He was sent from Kentucky to
Atlanta, Georgia, as a paid organizer for the party. Atlanta is within an area where there is a large negro
population, and the Communist Party has been endeavoring to extend its activities and membership to that population among others. Herndon's duties as an organizer
were to call and conduct meetings, to disseminate
information respecting the party, to distribute its literature, to educate prospects and secure members, to receive dues and contributions, and to work up a subordinate organization of theparty. He called and conducted meetings which evidently were secret, solicited
and secured members, and received dues and contributions. He and others, when becoming members, subscribed to an obligation saying "The undersigned declares
his adherence to the program and statutes of the Communist International and the Communist Party of the
'Lowry v. Herndon, 182 Ga. 582; 186 S. E. 429.

HERNDON v. LOWRY.
242

VAN DEVANTER,

J., dissenting.

U. S. A., and agrees to submit to the discipline of the
party and to engage actively in its work."
When arrested he had under his arm a box in which
he was carrying membership and collection books which
he had been using and various pamphlets, books and
documents, all pertaining to the structure, purposes and
activities of the party. Two or three of the papers had
been prepared by him and disclosed that he was an active
spirit in the "Section Committee" and the "Unemployment Committee," both subordinate local agencies of the
party. The membership books, besides showing names of
those whom he had induced to become members and aates
of their admission, contained extracts from the party
statutes, some of which read:
"A member of the Party can be every person from the
age of eighteen up who accepts the program and statutes
of the Communist International and the Communist
Party of the U. S. A., who becomes a member of a basic
organization of the Party,, who is active in this organization, who subordinates himself to all decisions of the
Comintern and of the Party, and regularly pays his
membership dues."
"The strictest Party Discipline is the most solemn duty
of all Party members and all Party organizations. The
decisions of the CI and the Party Convention of the CC
and of all leading committees of the Party, must be
promptly carried out. Discussion of questions over
which there have been differences must not continue after
the decision has been made."
"The Party is the vanguard of the working class and
consists of the best, most class conscious, most active, the
most courageous members of that class. It incorporates
the whole body of experience of the proletarian struggle,
basing itself upon the revolutionary theory of Marxism
and representing the general and lasting interests of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
VAN DEVANTER,

J., dissenting.

301 U. S.

whole of the working class. The Party personifies the
unity of proletarian principles, of proletarian will and of
proletarian revolutionary action."
The collection books contained the statement "Every
dollar collected is a bullet fired into the boss class." k
The membership and collection books had been sent to
Herndon from the main office of the party in New York
for use by him, and he had been using them in securing
members and in collecting dues and contributions. With
the exception of two or three papers prepared by him and
heretofore mentioned, the literature which he was carrying under his arm when arrested had been sent to him
from the same office, together with many pamphlets,
books and other publications, for use and distribution by
him in his work as an organizer. The literature which
he had with him when arrested was produced in evidence
and will now be described, chiefly by titles and extracts
(italics supplied).
"APPEAL TO SOUTHERN YOUNG WORKERS."

"The Young Communist League is the champion not
only of the young white workers but especially of the
doubly oppressed negro young workers. The Young
Communist League fights against the whole system of
race discrimination and stands for full racial, political,
economic and social equality of all workers. ...
"The chief aim of the Young Communist League is to
organize the young workers for a struggle against the
bosses and against the whole profit system.
"The Young Communist League fights for:
"Full political, social and racial equality for the negro
workers.
"Against bosses' wars! Defend the Soviet Union!
"Smash the National Guard, the C. M. T. C. and
R. 0. T. C."

HERNDON v. LOWRY.
242

VAN DEVANTER, J., dissenting.
"LIFE AND STRUGGLES OF NEGRO TOILERS."

"In no other so-called civilized country in the world
are human beings treated as badly as these 15 million
negroes [in the United States]. They live under a perpetual regime of white terror. . . They are absolutely
at the mercy of every fiendish mob incited by the white
landlords and capitalists."
"COMMUNISM

AND CHRISTIANISM."

"Banish the Gods from the Skies and Capitalists from
the Earth and make the World safe for Industrial Communism.
"The trouble with every reformatory socialism of modern times is, that it undertakes the impossibility of
changing the fruit of the capitalist state into that of the
communistic one, without changing .the political organism; but to do that is as impossible as to gather grapes
from thorns or figs from thistles. Hence an uprooting
and replanting are necessary (a revolution not a reformation) which will give the world a new tree of state.
"Capitalism no longer grows the fruits (foods, clothes
and houses) which are necessary to the sustenance of all
the world. Hence it must be dug up by the roots in order
that a tree which is so organized that it will bear these
necessities for the whole world may be planted in its
place.
"The people of Russia have accomplished this uprooting and replanting (this revolution) in the case of their
state, and those of every nation are destined to do the

same in one way or another, each according to its historical and economic development, some with much violence, most, I hope, with but little."
"COMMUNIST POSITION ON THE NEGRO QUESTION."

This is a booklet of several pages and bears on the front
of its cover a map of the United States showing a dark

272

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
VAN

DEVANTER,

J., dissenting.

301 U. S.

belt stretching across considerable portions of Georgia
and eight other southern states. Parts of the text are here
copied.
"The slogan of the right of self-determination occupies
the central place in the liberation struggle of the Negro
population in the Black Belt against the yoke of American imperialism. But this slogan, as we see it, must be
carried out only in connection with two other basic demands. Thus, there are three basic demands to be kept
in mind in the Black Belt, namely, the following:
"(a) Confiscation of the landed property of the white
landowners and capitalists for the benefit of the negro
farmers. The land property in the hands of the white.
American exploiters constitutes the most important material basis of the entire system of national oppression and
serfdom of the Negroes in the Black Belt. More than
three-quarters of all Negro farmers here are bound in
actual serfdom to. the farms and plantations of the white
exploiters by the feudal system of 'share cropping.'
"Without this revolutionarymeasure, without the agrarian revolution, the right of self-determination of the
Negro population would be only a Utopia or, at best,
would remain only on paper without changing in any way
the actual enslavement.
"(b) Establishment of the State Unity of the Black
Belt. At the present time this Negro zone-precisely for
the purpose of facilitating national oppression-is artificially split up and divided into a number of various
states which include distant localities having a majority
of white population. If the right of self-determination
of the Negroes is to be put into force, it is necessary
wherever possible to bring together into one governmental unit all districts of the South where the majority
of the settled population consists of negroes. Within

HERNDON v. LOWRY.
242

VAN

DEVANTER,

J., dissenting.

the limits of this state there will of course remain a fairly
significant white minority which must submit to the right
of self-determination of the negro majority ...
"(c) Right of Self-Determination. This means complete and unlimited right of the negro majority to exercise governmental authority in the entire territory of the
Black Belt, as well as to decide upon the relations between
their territory and other nations, particularly the United
States."
"Even if the situation does not yet warrant the raising
of the question of uprising, one should not limit oneself
at present to propaganda for the demand, 'Right to SelfDetermination,' but should organize mass actions, such as
demonstrations, strikes, tax boycott movements, etc."
"A direct question of power is also the demand of confiscation of the land of the white exploiters in the South,
as well as the demand of the negroes that the entire Black
Belt be amalgamated into a State unit.
"Hereby, every single fundamental demand of the liberation struggle of the negroes in the Black Belt is such
that-if once thoroughly understood by the negro masses
and adopted as their slogan-it will lead them into the
struggle for the overthrow of the power of the ruling
bourgeoisie, which is impossible without such revolutionary ^struggle. One cannot deny that it is just possible
for the negro population of the Black Belt to win the
right to self-determination during capitalism; but it is
perfectly clear and indubitable that this is possible only
through successful revolutionary struggle for power
against the American bourgeoisie, through wresting the
negroes' right of self-determination from American imperialism. Thus, the slogan of right to self-determination is a real slogan of National Rebellion which, to be
146212°-37-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
VAN DEVANTER, J., dissenting.

301 U. S.

considered as such, need not be supplemented by proclaiming struggle for the complete separation of the negro
zone, at least not at present.
"(d) Communists must fight in the forefront of the

national liberation movement and must do their utmost
for the progress of this mass movement and its revolutionization. Negro Communists must clearly dissociate
themselves from all bourgeois currents in the negro movement, must indefatigably oppose the spread of the influence of the bourgeois groups on the working negroes."
"Their constant call to the negro masses must be:
Revolutionary struggle against the ruling white bourgeoisie, through a fighting alliance with the revolutionary
white proletariat!
"We are Bolsheviks, members of a fighting Party of the
working class, who know that the only road to the revolutionary overthrow of capitalism and the establishment
of Communism is through welding together the iron unity
'of class idealogy which penetrates into our ranks, as the
prerequisite to the effective struggle against the class enemy physically."
There was no direct testimony that Herndon distributed the literature just described. No member of the
Communist Party came forward to tell what he did in
their meetings or in inducing them to become members.
Nor does this seem strange when regard is had to the
obligation taken by members and to the discipline imposed. Nevertheless there was evidence from which distribution by him reasonably could be inferred. It was
sh -wn that he was an active member, was sent to Atlanta
as a paid organizer, and was subject to party discipline;
also that he received the literature for distribution in the
course of his work and had copies of it, together with cur-

HERNDON v. LOWRY.
242

VAN

DEVANTER,

275

J., dissenting.

rent membership and collection books, under his arm when
he was arrested; and further that he had been soliciting
and securing members, which was part of the work in
which the literature was to be used. He had declared his
"adherence to the program and statutes" of the party and
had taken like declarations from those whom he secured
as members; and this tended strongly to show not only
that he understood the party program and statutes as
outlined in the literature but also that he brought them
to the attention of others whom he secured as members.
Besides, at the trial he made an extended statement to
the court and jury in his defense,' but did not refer in any
wise to the literature or deny that he had been using or
distributing it. Thus there was in the evidence not merely
some but adequate and undisputed basis for inferring
that he had been using the literature for the purposes for
which he received it. Evidently, and with reason, the
jury drew this inference.
It should not be overlooked that Herndon was a negro
member and organizer in the Communist Party and was
engaged actively in inducing others, chiefly southern
negroes, to become members of the party and participate in effecting its purposes and program. The literature placed in his hands by the party for that purpose
was particularly adapted to appeal to negroes in that
section, for it pictured their condition as an unhappy
one resulting from asserted wrongs on the part of white
landlords and employers, and sought by alluring statements of resulting advantages to induce them to join
in an effort to carry into effect the measures which the
literature proposed. These measures included a revolutionary uprooting of the existing capitalist state, as it
was termed; confiscation of the landed property of white
landowners and capitalists for the benefit of negroes; es'See Georgia Code 1933, ,§ 38-415.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
VAN DEVANTER,

J., dissenting.

301 U. S.

tablishment in the black belt of an independent State,
possibly followed by secession from the United States;
organization of mass demonstrations, strikes and tax boycotts in aid of this measure; adoption of a fighting alliance with the revolutionary white proletariat; revolutionary overthrow of capitalism and establishment of
Communism through effective physical struggles against
the class enemy. Proposing these measures was nothing
short of advising a resort to force and violence, for all
know that such measures could not be effected otherwise.
Not only so, but the literature makes such repelling use
of the terms "revolution," "national rebellion," "revolutionary struggle," "revolutionary overthrow," "effective
physical struggle," "smash the National Guard," "mass
strikes," and "violence," as to leave no doubt that the
use of force in an unlawful sense is intended.
The purpose and probable effect of such literature, when
under consideration in a prosecution like that against
Herndon, are to be tested and determined with appropriate regard to the capacity and circumstances of those
who are sought to be influenced." In this instance the
literature is largely directed to a people whose past and
present circumstances would lead them to give unusual
credence to its inflaming and inciting features.
And so it is that examination and consideration of the
evidence convince me that the supreme court of the
State applied the statute, conformably to its opinion, as
making criminal an attempt to induce and incite others
to join in combined forcible resistance to the lawful authority of the State.
That the constitutional guaranty of freedom of speech
and assembly does not shield or afford protection for
acts of intentional incitement to forcible resistance to the
lawful authority of a State is settled by repeated deci'Burns v. United States, 274 U. S. 328, 335.

HERNDON v. LOWRY.
242

VAN DEVANTER,

J., dissenting.

sions of this Court; 8 and the Georgia decisions are to
the same effect.'
Under the statute as construed and applied it is essential that the accused intended to induce combined
forcible resistance. The presence of the intent aggravates the inducement ard brings it more certainly within
the power of the State to denounce it as a crime than
otherwise it would be. The supreme court of the State
in both of its opinions was dealing with a statute and a
charge in which the intent of the accused was an element
of the offense. In the original opinion the court incautiously said "it would be sufficient that he intended it
[the combined and forcible resistance] to happen at any
time." In its opinion on rehearing it said the phrase "at
any time" had not been intended to mean any time in
the indefinite future; and by way of avoiding such a
meaning the court changed that part of the original
opinion by making it read "at any time within which he
might reasonably expect his influence to continue to be
directly operative in causing such action by those whom
he sought to induce." I do not perceive that this puts
the standard of guilt at large or renders it inadmissibly
vague. The accused must intend that-combined forcible
resistance shall proximately result from his act of inducement. There is no uncertainty, in that. The intended
point of time must be within the period during which he
"might reasonably expect" his inducement to remain
directly operative in causing the combined forcible resistance. The words "might reasonably expect" have as
much precision as is admissible in such a matter, are not
'Gitlow v. New York, 268 U. S. 652, 666, et seq.; Whitney v. California, 274 U. S. 357, 371; Fiske v. Kansas, 274 U. S. 380, 385;
Stromberg v. California,283 U. S. 359, 368; Near v. Minnesota, 283
U. S. 697,_708.
'Carr v. State, 176 Ga. 55; 166 S. E. 8271 167 S. E. 103; Carr v.
State, 176 Ga. 747; 169 S.E. 201.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

301 U. S.

difficult to understand, and conform to decisions heretofore given by this Court in respect of related questions."
I therefore am of opinion that there is no objectionable
uncertainty about the standard of guilt and that the
statute does not in that regard infringe the constitutional
guaranty of due process of law.
Believing that the statute under which the conviction
was had is not subject to the objections leveled against
it, I think the judgment of the supreme court of the State
denying the petition for habeas corpus should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE

SUTHERLAND

and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER join in this dissent.
STEELMAN, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY, v. ALL
CONTINENT CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 638.

Argued March 29, 30, 1937.-Decided April 26, 1937.

1. Jurisdiction of a bankruptcy court to administer a bankrupt
estate draws to itself, when once it has attached, an incidental
or ancillary jurisdiction to give protection to the estate against
waste or disintegration while frauds upon its integrity are in
process of discovery. P. 289.
2. Pending bankruptcy proceedings in New Jersey in which examinations were being carried on under § 21 (a) of the Bankruptcy
Act at the instance of the trustee for the purpose of exposing the
relations of the bankrupt to a corporation formed and controlled
by him, to which he had transferred valuable securities and which,
there was ground to believe, was a mere instrument for defrauding his creditors, the corporation, having already filed a claim
in the bankruptcy case, brought suit in a federal court in Pennsylvania for the alleged purpose of quieting its title to part of
Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 212 U. S. 86, 108-111; Nash v.
United States, 229 U. S. 373, 376-378.

