492

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. Truax v. Corrigan, supra, 328.
I am of opinion that the judgment should be reversed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER,

NOLDS, and MR. JUSTICE

MR. JUSTICE McREY-

SUTHERLAND

join in this dissent.

DUKE v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 907.

Argued May 4, 1937.-Decided May 24, 1937.

1. A misdemeanor for which the punishment prescribed is not infamous but may exceed $500 fine and six months' imprisonment
without hard labor, may be prosecuted by information. P. 493.
2. So held of Crim. Code, ยง 137, prescribing a fine of not more than
$1,000, or imprisonment of not more than six months, or both,
for the offense of attempting to influence a juror by a written communication. P. 493.
3. The authority to prosecute by information is not limited to offenses punishable as defined in the proviso added to Cr. Code,
ยง 335 by Act of Dec. 16, 1930. P. 494.

Response to questions certified by the court below with
respect to a case on appeal from a criminal conviction.
Mr. Jesse C. Duke, pro se.
Mr. William W. Barron, with whom Solicitor General

Reed and Assistant Attorney General McMahon were
on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.

The court below, being divided and in doubt, and desiring the instruction and advice of this court, has certified

the following questions of law:

DUKE v. UNITED STATES.
492

Opinion of the Court.

"1. May a misdemeanor, for which no infamous punishment is prescribed, be prosecuted by information,
where the punishment therefor may exceed $500 fine or
six months' imprisonment, without hard labor, or both?
"2. May an offense under Sec. 137 of the Criminal
Code be prosecuted by information?"
The certificate contains the following statement of
facts:
"This was a prosecution for violation of Sec. 137 of
the Criminal Code, 18 U. S. C. A. 243, which provides:
"'Whoever shall attempt to influence the action or
decision of any grand or petit juror of any court of the
United States upon any issue or matter pending before
such juror, or before the jury of which he is a member,
or pertaining to his duties, by writing or sending to him
any letter or any communication, in print or writing, in
relation to such issue or matter, shall be fined not more
than $1,000, or imprisoned not more than six months,
or both.'
"The prosecution was by information filed under oath
by the United States Attorney. The appellant was convicted of the offense charged and from judgment and
sentence thereon appeals to this court. One of the questions presented by the appeal is whether 'the offense
charged, which is punishable by six months imprisonment or fine of $1,000, or both, may be prosecuted by
information, in view of Sec. 335 of the Criminal
Code. .. .
"Notwithstanding the decision in Thorm v. United
States (C. C. A. 3d) 59 Fed. (2d) 419, cert. denied 287
U. S.624, this court is divided and in doubt as to whether
a misdemeanor may be prosecuted by information where
the punishment therefor, although not infamous, may exceed a fine of five hundred dollars, or six months' imprisonment without hard labor, or both. As there are a
large number of such misdemeanors denounced by the

OCTOBER TER\I, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

Criminal Code (See Hearings before House Judiciary
Committee, Seventieth Congress, First Session, January
17, 1928, on H. R. 5608, H. R. 8230, H. R. 8555, H. R.
8556, Serial 1, Page 31) the court deems the question of
sufficient importance to certify to the Supreme Court."
Section 335 of the Criminal Code, c. 321, 35 Stat.,
1088, 1152, before its amendment, provided: "All offenses
which may be punished by death, or imprisonment for a
term exceeding one year, shall be deemed felonies. All
other offenses shall be deemed misdemeanors."
This section was amended by the Act of December 16,
1930, c. 15, 46 Stat. 1029, 18 U. S. C. ยง 541, by adding the
following proviso: "Provided, That all offenses the penalty for which does not exceed confinement in a common
jail, without hard labor for a period of six months, or a
fine of not more than $500, or both, shall be deemed to be
petty offenses; and all such petty offenses may be prosecuted upon information or complaint."
Appellant contends that this language limits the authority to prosecute by information strictly to those offenses punishable as the proviso prescribes. Under the
original section, there is no doubt that the offense with
which appellant is charged was a misdemeanor which
could be prosecuted by information. It will be enough
to cite as examples supporting this conclusion Falconi v.
United States, 280 Fed. 766, and Hunter v. United States,
272 Fed. 235, 238, where other cases are collected. We
think the proviso relied upon did not change this rule.
The original section divides crimes into felonies and
misdemeanors. The evident object of the proviso was to
bring about a subdivision of misdemeanors by creating a
class of misdemeanors of minor gravity to be known as
petty offenses; to be tried, as proposed by other legislation (which failed), by United States Commissioners.
The addition of the words that "such petty offenses may
be prosecuted upon information or complaint" did not
work a change of the then well-settled rule that any mis-

CARMICHAEL v. SOUTHERN COAL CO.
492

495

Syllabus.

demeanor not involving infamous punishment might be
prosecuted by information instead of by indictment. The
quoted words probably were inserted, as the government
contends and the legislative history indicates, merely to
supplement and aid the other proposed legislation then
pending to which we have referred; but, in any event,
they are affirmative words and do not in terms or by reasonable implication negative the broader long-standing
rule in respect of misdemeanors of the other class. Thorm
v. United States, 59 F. (2d) 419. The offense with which
appellant was charged was not a petty offense within the
proviso, but it was a misdemeanor of a kind, as the certificate recites, not subject to infamous punishmenttherefore open to prosecution by information.
Both interrogatories.must be answered in the affirmative.
Question No. 1, Yes.
Question No. 2, Yes.
CARMICHAEL, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF ALABAMA, ET AL. v. SOUTHERN COAL & COKE CO.*
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.

No. 724.

Argued April 7, 8, 1937.-Decided May 24, 1937.

The Unemployment Compensation Act of Alabama sets up a scheme
for providing unemployment benefits for workers employed within
the State by designated classes of employers. These include
all who employ eight or more persolns for twenty or more'
weeks in the year, except those engaged in certain specified employments. The employers are to pay certain percentages of their
total monthly payrolls into the state Unemployment Compensation
Fund, and each employee is required to contribute to the fund a
*Together with No. 797, Carmichael, Attorney General of Alabama, et al. v. Gulf States Paper Corp. Appeal from the District
Court of the United States for the Middle District of Alabama.

