HARTFORD CO. v. HARRISON.
441

Statement of the Case.

Shafer v. FarmersGrain Co., 268 U. S. 189, as the statute
subjected the buying for interstate shipnent to conditions and a measure of control which caused a direct
interference with interstate commerce.
Here, the Georgia Act lays no constraint upon purchases in interstate commerce, does not attempt to fix the
prices or conditions of purchases, or the profit of the purchasers. It simply seeks to protect the tobacco growers
from unreasonable charges of the warehousemen for their
services to the growers in handling and selling the tobacco
for their account. Whatever relation these transactions
had to interstate and foreign commerce, the effect is
merely incidental and imposes no direct burden upon that
commerce. The State is entitled to afford its industry
this measure of protection until its requirement is superseded by valid federal regulation. The judgment of the
District Court is
Affirmed.
HARTFORD

STEAM

BOILER INSPECTION &
INSURANCE CO. ET AL. v. HARRISON, INSURANCE COMMISSIONER.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF GEORGIA.

No. 355.

Argued February 2, 1937.-Decided May 24, 1937.

A statutory discrimination between the mutual companies and the
stock companies which write fire, casualty, etc., insurance in the
State, forbidding stock companies to act through agents who are
their salaried employees but permitting this to mutual companies,
is repugnant to the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. P. 463.
Georgia Ls., 1935, Act of Mar. 28, 1935, ยง 1, held unconstitu-

tional. The discrimination has no reasonable relation to the difference between the two classes of companies. It is arbitrary.
183 Ga. 1; 187 S.E. 648, reversed.

from a judgment which reversed a decision of
a trial court directing that a writ of mandamus issue reAPPEAL

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

quiring -the above-named Insurance Commissioner to
license one of the appellants as general agent of the other,
the Insurance Company.
Mr. Marion Smith, with whom Mr. Harold Hirsch was
on the brief, for appellants.
J1. B. D. Murphy, Assistant Attorney General of
Georgia, with whom Mr. Jl. J. Veomans, Attorney General, wa s on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE M[CREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
. The Hartford Steam Boiler Inspection and Insurance
Company, a stock corporation organized under the laws
of Connecticut, carrying on casualty insurance business in
Georgia, and its salaried employee W. M. Francis, citizen
of that State, asked the Superior Court, Fulton County,
for a mandamus requiring the Insurance Commissioner to
license him as resident agent. The Commissioner claimed
that while duly qualified in all other respects, the employee could not be so licensed because of the inhibition
in . 1, Act of the General Assembly, approved March 28,
1935. Georgia Laws, 1935, p. 140:
"No licensed fire or casualty insurance company or
company writing fidelity or surety bonds, shall write or
issue any policy or indemnity contract on any risk in this
State except through a resident agent licensed by the Insurance Commissioner: Provided . . . The words 'resident agent' as used in this section are deemed to mean
resident agents engaged in the solicitation of such business from the public generally and shall not include any
salaried employee of any insurance company doing business in this State; but shall include any agents of mutual
insurance companies however compensated. .. ."
Appellants claimed that enforcement of the quoted
inhibition would deprive them of the equal protection
of the laws, contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment.

HARTFORD"CO. v. HARRISON.
459

Opinion of the Court.

The trial court ruled "that said act, in discriminating
against stock companies and the agents thereof, and in
favor of mutual companies and the agents thereof, sets
up an arbitrary classification bearing no reasonable relationship to the subject-matter of the legislation, and is
discriminatory, depriving both petitioner, The Hartford
Steam Boiler Inspection and Insurance Company, as
an insurance company, and petitioner, W. M. Francis,
as an individual, of their constitutional rights." Accordingly, it directed that mandamus issue.
In the State Supreme Court counsel agreed that the
sole question involved was the constitutionality of the
statute. That Court, being of opinion that the Act prescribed no undue discrimination and did not otherwise
conflict with the Federal Constitution, reversed the trial
court. The cause is here by appeal.
The, applicable principle in respect of classification has
often been announced, It will suffice to quote a paragraph from Louisville Gas & Electric Co. v. Coleman, 277
U. S. 32, 37, 38.
"... it may be said generally that the equal protection clause means that the rights of all persons.must rest
upon the same rule under similar circumstances,, Kentucky Railroad Tax Cases, 115 U. S.321, 337; Magoun v.
Illinois Trust & Savings Bank, 170 U. S. 283, 293, and
that it applies to the exercise of all the powers of the
state which can affect the individual or his property, including the power of taxation. County of Santa Clara
v. Southern Pac. R. Co., 18 Fed. 385, 388-399; The Railroad Tax Cases, 13 Fed. 722, 733. It does not, however,
forbid classification; and the power of the state to classify for purposes of taxation is of wide range and flexibility, provided always, that the classification 'must be
reasonable, not arbitrary, and must rest upon some
ground of difference, having a fair and substantial relation to the object of the legislation, so that all persons

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

similarly circumstanced shall be treated alike.' Royster
Guano Co. v. Virginia, 253 U. S. 412. 415; Air-way Corp.
v. Day, 266 U. S. 71, 85; Schlesinger v. Wisconsin, 270
U. S. 230, 240. That is to say, mere difference is not
enough: the attempted classification 'must always rest
upon some difference which bears a reasonable and just
relation to the act in respect to which the classification
is proposed, and can never be made arbitrarily and withoat any such basis.' Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. v.
Ellis, 165 U. S. 150, 155. Discriminations of an unusual
character especially suggest careful consideration to determine whether they arc obnoxious to the constitutional
provision. Compare Martin. v. District of Columbia, 205
U. S. 135, 139; Bell's Gap R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134
U. S. 232, 237."
Despite the broad range of the State's discretion, it has
a limit which must be maintained if the constitutional
safeguard is not to be overthrown. Discriminations are
not to be supported by mere fanciful conjecture. Borden's Co. v. Baldwin, 293 U. S. 194, 209. They cannot
stand as reasonable if they offend the plain standards of
common sense. In this instance, the appellant company
had been licensed to do business in the State and was
entitled to equal protection in conducting that business.
The answer of the insurance commissioner admitted that
he was "entirely satisfied as to the character, standing,
responsibility, ability, and knowledge" of the proposed
agent, and that the license was refused solely because he
was a "salaried" employee. It is plain that the requirement that the resident agents of stock companies should
not work on a salary has no relation to economy or efficiency in management. The answer of the insurance cornmissioner states that all of the contracts of mutual fire
and casualty insurance companies are "negotiated by
salaried employees" and that this method of doing busi-

HARTFORD CO. v. HARRISON.
459

ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

ness was adopted "in order to reduce the expenses of
operation and thus benefit the policyholders themselves."
It is, idle to elaborate the differences between mutual
and stock companies. These are manifest and admitted.
But the statutory discrimination has no rehsonable relation to these differences. We can discover no reasonable
basis for permitting mutual insurance companies to act
through salaried resident employees and exclude stock
companies from the same privilege. If there were any
such basis, it would have been discovered by the state
courts. The trial court said there was none. Two Justices
of the Supreme Court were of the same opinion. The prevailing opinion in that court fails to disclose any good
reason for the discrimination. The diligence of counsel
for appellee has not been more successful. Thus the
efforts in the state courts, and here, to find support for
the statute have conspicuously failed. Statements as to
the extent of the business written by stock companies are
obviously beside the mark.
For the error indicated, the questioned judgment must
be reversed and the cause returned to the Supreme Court
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS,

dissenting.

The appellants petitioned the Superior Court of Fulton
County, Georgia, for a mandamus directed to the appellee
as Insurance Commissioner requiring him to issue a
license to Francis, a salaried employe of the Hartford
Company, as an insurance agent for the writing of
casualty insurance in the State of Georgia pursuant to
the Act of the General Assembly of March 28, 1935. The
petition alleged that Francis possessed all the statutory
qualifications for a license save only that he was a salaried
employe of the insurance company and that the pro-

:464

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

301 U. S.

vision of the statute excluding salaried employes of insurance companies from licensure is unconsiitutional.
Section 1 of the act of 1935 1 prohibits licensed fire or
casualty insurance companies from writing or issuing any
policy or indemnity contract on any risk in the state of
Georgia except through a resident agent licensed by the
Insurance Commissioner. The section requires the applicant for a license to be a bona fide resident of the state,
of good character and competent to perform the duties of
an agent. It further provides: "The words 'resident
agent' as used in this section are deemed to mean resident
agents engaged in the solicitation of such business from
the public generally and shall not include any salaried
employe of any insurance company doing business in this
state; but shall include any agents of mutual insurance
companies however compensated."
The ground upon which the act is held invalid is that it
unreasonably discriminates between salaried employes of
mutual insurance companies and similar employes of
stock companies.
The answer alleges that there is a well recognized difference between. stock and mutual insurance companies
in that, in the case of the former, the relationship between
the company and its policy-holders is one of contract
merely, they dealing at arm's length, whereas in the latter the policy-holders are the owners of the company and
constitute its membership. Other well known differences
between mutual and stock insurance are detailed in the
answer and will be referred to hereinafter.
The case was heard upon the petition and answer and
the trial court, in the view that the act was unconstitutional, ordered that a mandamus issue. Upon appeal
the Supreme-Court 6f Georgia reversed the judgment. I
Act

of March 28, 1935. Georgia Acts 1935, p. 140.

HARTFORD CO. v. HARRISON.
459

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

am of the opinion that its decision was right and should
be affirmed.
First. On its face the statute is a proper exercise of the
state's police power. The provision for licensing only
bona fide residents of the state is valid.- Regulation of
the rates charged for insurance, of the relations of those
engaged in the business and of the amount of agents'
compensation fall within the exercise of this power. The
claim here is that the particular regulation is unreasonable and discriminatory. The presumption of constitutional validity must prevail unless the terms of the
statute, or what we judicially know, or facts proved by
the appellants, overthrow that presumption. As it is
conceivable that conditions existed in Georgia which
justified the difference in treatment of the agents of the
two sorts of companies, and as no circumstances are alleged or proved or are of judicial knowledge which negative the existence of those conditions the attack upon the
statute should fail.4
Second. The appellant Francis asserts he is denied
equal protection because agents of mutual insurance
companies may be licensed even though their compensation consists of a salary rather than commissions. The
answer sets up that mutual insurance companies are organized on a different basis from stock companies, do
business in a wholly different way and sustain an altogether different relation to their policy-holders than do
stock companies. This is matter of common knowledge.
Section 56-1401 of the Georgia Code 1933 is: "The contract of insurance is sometimes upon the. idea of mu2La Tourette v. McMaster, 248 U. S. 465.

O'Gorman & Young v. Hartford Insurance Co., 282 U. S. 251,
257.
4O'Gorman & Young v. Hartford Insurance Co., supra, 257-258;
Borden's Farm Products Co. v. Baldwin, 293 U. S. 194, 208, 209.
146212-37-30

466

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

301 U. S.

tuality, by which each of the insured becomes one of
the insurers, thereby becoming interested in the profits
and liable for the losses; without a charter, such an
organization would be governed by the general law of
partnership; when incorporated, they are subject to the
terms of their charters." Sections 56-1401 to 56-1433
deal exclusively with the incorporation and government
of mutual iisurance companies setting up for them a
system quite apart from that prescribed for the incorporation and regulation of stock companies. The decision law of the state also recognizes the fundamental
difference between the two kinds of company.5 The Supreme Court of Georgia quoted and relied upon its
earlier decision as to the radical difference between stock
and mutual companies and their methods of transacting
business, and refused to hold the classification of the
statute arbitrary or unreasonable.'
The literature on the subject shows that at its inception the fire insurance business in the United States was
modelled upon the mutual companies of Great Britain.'
Stock companies, however, were soon organized and rap,
idly grew to such proportions that to-day they transact
about seventy-five per cent of the nation's fire insurance business. Local and state mutual insurance companies. now write about ten per cent of the total of fire
insurance and are strongest in agricultural districts and
the smaller cities; another ten per cent of the total business is written by so-called factory mutuals; the balance
is eared for by Lloyd's associations.'
The principle of assessment upon which mutual companies proceed is practical only for carrying risks closely
uniform in kind and .degree, its chief advantage being
5Carlton v. Southern Mutual Insurance Co., 72 Ga. 371.
6Enc. of the Social Sciences, Vol. VI, 255; Yale Readings in Insurance, Property, Chapter IV.
7 Enc. of the Social Sciences, Vol. VI, ,258.

HARTFORD CO. v. HARRISON.
459

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

low operating cost due to simplicity of organization, and
it is said that the sales staffs of such companies work
either "on a salaried basis or on a lower scale of commissions than do the representatives of stock companies." 8 There are approximately twenty-five hundred
mutual fire and casualty institutions operating throughout the United States, the vast majority of which concentrate their operations locally within one or more counties or within a single state. "These companies rarely
compete with agency represented stock companies and
there has been no apparent inclination on their part
to alter the scope of activity or plan of operation. Of
the many mutual fire insurance companies probably no
more than ten per cent extend their .fields of operation
beyond the boundaries of their home state." I
Reference to the report of the Insurance Commissioner
of Georgia for 1934, the year preceding the adoption of
the statute under review, furnishes interesting data on the
relative business of stock and mutual insurance companies
in the state of Georgia. For that year the total of risks
carried by stock fire insurance companies in the state was
$1,512,181,296. Foreign- mutual fire insurance companies carried, only $82,727,816. Two domestic mutual
companies doing a state-wide business carried $73,370,177, and fourteen small local mutuals carried $10,893,603.
Thus, mutual companies carried about ten per cent of the
total fire insurance business of the state and, of that ten
'per
cent, over one-half was written by Georgia
mutual
companies.
While Georgia does not exclude foreign mutuals and
requires them, like foreign stock companies, to register
and comply with certain statutory rules in order to write
business within the state, it is evident that the total
mutual business written in Georgia is of minor importance
S Enc.

of the Social Sciences, Vol VIII, p. 100.

9 Best's Insurance News, Octobcr 1935, p. 314.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

301 U. S.

when compared with the vast amount written by stock
companies. This fact in itself may well be a persuasive
reason for not extending to agents of mutual companies
the requirement that they shall not work upon a salary.1"
When to this is added the fact that. ordinarily such agents
work on salary because, in effect, they are the agents of
the policy-holders rather than of in dependent owners
of a stock corporation, it is plain that there is reason
for classifying them differently from agents of stock
companies. In the light of the facts the classification
of the agents of the two sorts of company cannot be said
to be arbitrary or unreasonable, and so to deny the
agents of the stock companies the equal protection of the
laws.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS, MR. JUSTICE STONE*,. and MR.
JUSTICE CARDOZO concur

in this opinion.

SENN v. TILE.LAYERS PROTECTIVE UNION

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF WISCONSIN.

No. 658.

Argued March 31, April 1, 1937.-Decided May 24, 1937.

1. The questions of what constitutes a "labor dispute" within the
meaning of Wisconsin Labor Code, ยง 103.62, and what acts done by
a labor union are among those declared lawful by ยง 103.53, are

questions of state law. P. 477.
2 If the end sought by a labor union is not forbidden by the Federal Constitution, the State may authorize the union members to
seek to attain it by combining as pickets. P. 478.
3. In its application to this case, Wisconsin Labor Code, ยง 103.53,
making lawful the giving of publicity to the existence and facts
of a labor dispute by peaceful picketing in the street, without intimidation or coercion, fraud, violence, breach of the -peace, or
threat thereof, is consistent with the Fourteenth Amendment.
P. 480.
10

Compare Citizens' Telephone Co. v. Fuller, 229 U. S.322.

