LINDSEY v. WASHINGTON.
Opinion of the Court.

LINDSEY

ET AL.

v. WASHINGTON.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 660.

Argued May 3, 1937.-Decided May 17, 1937.

A state statute making more onerous the standard of punishment
is ex post facto and void as applied to a crime committed before
its enactment. P.:401.
Under the law of the State of Washington at the time of the
alleged offense, imprisonment of the accused could have been fixed
by the judge at less than the maximum of 15 years. By the law
as amended and applied (c. 114, L. Wash., 1935), sentence for 15
years was made mandatory; a parole board was empowered to fix
the duration of confinement within that period and to fix it anew
within that period for infractions of the rules; even if paroled, the
prisoner would remain subject to surveillance and until the expiration of the 15 years his parole would be subject to revocation at
the discretion of the board or the Governor.
187 Wash. 364; 61 P. (2d) 293, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 300 U. S. 652, to review the affirmance of a
conviction of grand ,larceny.

Mr. Spencer Gordon for petitioners.

Messrs. C. C. Quackenbush and Ralph E. Foley, with
whom Mr. A. 0. Colburn was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court..
In this case certiorari was granted to review a decision

of the Supreme Court of Washington, 187 Wash. 346; 61
P. (2d) 293, that Chapter 114 of the Laws of Washing-

ton, 1935, under which petitioners were sentenced to
terms of imprisonment, is not an ex post facto law pro-

hibited by Article I, § 10, of the Federal Constitution.
Petitioners were convicted in the state court of the
crime of grand larceny, made a felony by state law,

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

§ 2601 (2), Remington Rev. Stat., and sentenced to be
punished by confinement in the state penitentiary and
reformatory respectively for terms of not more than
fifteen years. On April 15, 1935, the date of the commission of the offense, the prescribed penalty for grand
larceny was imprisonment "for not more than fifteen
years." No minimum term was prescribed. Remington
Rev. Stat., § 2605. On that date, the statutes also provided, Remington Rev. Stat., § 2281, for indeterminate
sentences for any felony "for which no fixed period of
confinement is imposed by law." All such sentences were
required to be "for a term not less than the minimum nor
greater than the maximum term of imprisonment prescribed by law for the offense . . . and where no minimum term of imprisonment is prescribed by law, the court
shall fix the same in his discretion at not less than six
months nor more than five years; . . ." Section 2282,
as modified by § 10803, provided for a parole board which
could "at any time after the expiration of the minimum
term of imprisonment . . .direct that any prisoner . . .
shall be released on parole ....."
*The Act of June 12, 1935, enacted after petitioners'
commission of the offense and before sentence, modifies the sections relating to indeterminate sentences and
paroles and provides, so far as now relevant, § 2, paragraph 1, that upon conviction of a felony "the court . . .
shall fix the maximum term of such person's sentence
only. The maximum term to be fixed by the court shall
be the maximum provided by law for the crime of which
such person was convicted, if the law provides for a
maximum term." It also provides, § 2, paragraph 4,
that within six months after the admission of a convicted
person to the place of confinement, the board of prison,
terms and paroles "...
shall fix the duration of his or
her confinement. The term of imprisonment so fixed
shall not exceed the maximum provided by law for the

LINDSEY v. WASHINGTON.
397

399

Opinion of the Court.

offense for which he or she was convicted or the maximum
fixed by the court, where the law does not provide for a
maximum term."
By § 2, paragraph 6, if the person undergoing sentence
commits any infraction of the rules and regulations of
the place of confinement, the board ". . . may revcke
any order theretofore made determining the length of the
time such convicted person shall be imprisoned and make
a new order determining the length of time he or she shall
serve, not exceeding the maximum penalty provided by
law for the crime for which he or she was convicted."
It is provided, § 4, that a convicted person may be released on parole by the board after he has served the
period of confinement fixed by the board, less time credits
for good behavior and diligence which may not exceed
"one-third of his sentence as fixed by the board," and
that the board shall have power ". . . to return such
person to the confines of the institution from which he or
she was paroled, at its discretion." The governor is
authorized to cancel and revoke paroles granted by the
board, and the period following cancellation or revocation
of parole, and prior to the convicted person's return to
custody, is not a "part of his term."
The sentences of not more than fifteen years imposed
on petitioners were the maximum provided by law, and
were made mandatory by the Act of 1935. In obedience
to its command the court fixed no minimum. It does not
appear from the record whether the board of prison, terms
and paroles has fixed the "duration" of petitioners' "confinement.?' Numerous grounds are urged by petitioners
in support of their contention that the sentence authorized by the later statute is ex post facto as applied to their
offense, committed before its enactment. We find it
necessary to consider only one.
In sustaining the sentence the Supreme Court of
Washington, without analysis or comparison of the prac-

400

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

tical operation of the two statutes, declared "The amending act does not change or inflict a greater punishment
than the law in force when the alleged crime was committed for the court c'ould under the law in force at that
time pronounce a maximum sentence of not more than
fifteen years. The minimum and maximum punishments
remain the same as before the enactment of the act of
1935." This Court, in applying the ex post facto prohibition of the Federal Constitution to state laws, accepts
the meaning ascribed to them by the highest court of the
state. But when their meaning is thus established,
whether the standards of punishment set up before and
after the commission of an offense differ, and whether the
later standard is more onerous than the earlier within the
meaning of the constitutional prohibition, are federal
questions which this Court will determine for itself.
Cummings v. Missouri, 4 Wall. 277, 320, rev'g, State v.
Cummings, 36 Mo. 263, 273; Kring v. Missouri, 107 U. S.
221, 223-224, 231-232. To answer them we compare the
practical operation of the two statutes as applied to
petitioners' offense.
Under the earlier § 2281, as the state concedes, the
prisoners could have been sentenced for a maximum term
less than the fifteen year penalty authorized by the statute. Under the later statute, the sentence by the court,
as commanded by § 2, was for fifteen years, and the
"duration of confinement" to be fixed by the board of
prison, terms and paroles may be for any number of years
not exceeding fifteen.
The effect of the new statute is to make mardatory
what was before only the maximum sentence. Under it
the prisoners may be held to confinement during the
entire fifteen year period. Even if they are admitted
to parole, to which they become eligible after the expiration of the terms fixed by the board, they remain subject
to its surveillance and the parole may, until the expira-

LINDSEY v. WASHINGTON.
397

401

Opinion of the Court.

tion of the fifteen years, be revoked at the discretion of
the board or cancelled at the~will of the governor. It is
true that petitioners might have been sentenced to fifteen
years under the old statute. But the ex post facto -clause
looks to the standard of punishment prescribed by a statute, rather than to the sentence actually imposed. The
Constitution forbids the application of any new punitive
measure to a crime already consummated, to the detriment or material disadvantage of the wrongdoer. Kring
v. Missouri, supra, 228-229; In re Medley, 134 U. S. 160,
171; Thompson v. Utah, 170 U. S. 343, 351. It is for
this reason that an increase in the possible penalty is
ex post facto, Calder v. Bull, 3 Dall. 386, 390; Cummings
v. Missouri, supra, 326; Malloy v.'South Carolina, 237
U. S. 180, 184, regardless of the length of the sentence
actually imposed, since the measure of punishment prescribed by the later statute is more severe than that of
the earlier, State v. Callahan, 109 La. 946;'33 So.'931;
State v. Smith, 56 Ore. 21; 107 Pac. 980.
Removal of the possibility of a sentence of less than
fifteen years, at the eid of which petitioners would be
freed from further confinement and the tutelage of a
parole revocable at will, operates to their detriment in
the sense that the standard of punishment adopted by
the new statute is more onerous than that of the old. It
could hardly be thought that, if a punishment for murder
of life imprisonment or death were changed to death
alone, the latter penalty could be applied to homicide
committed before the change. Marion v. State, 16 Neb.
349; 20 N. W. 289. Yet this is only a more striking instance of the detriment which ensues from the revision of
a statute providing for a maximum and minimum punishment by making the maximum compulsory. We need
not inquire whether this is technically an increase in the
punishment annexed to the crime, see Calder v. Bull,
supra, 390. It is plainly to the substantial disadvantage
146212*-3-326

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

301 U. S.

of petitioners to be deprived of all opportunity to receive
a sentence which would give them freedom from custody
and control prior to the expiration of the 15-year term.
Petitioners were wrongly sentenced under the Act of
1935. Whether, in consequence of the invalidity of the
later act, as applied to petitioners, they may be sentenced
under the earlier, is a question for the state court.
The cause will be reversed and remanded for further
proceedings, not inconsistent with -this opinion.

Reversed.
UNITED STATES ET AL. v. AMERICAN SHEET &
TIN PLATE CO. ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 734. Argued April 9, 12, 1937.-Decided May 17, 1937.
1. Orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission requiring carriers
to desist from spotting cars on industrial plant tracks as part of
the service rendered under interstate line-haul rates and from
granting allowances out of the line-haul rates to industries doing
such spotting, held adequately supported by the Commission's findings in each case that the interchange tracks of the respective industries are reasonably convenient points for the receipt and delivery of interstate shipments and that the industry performs no
service beyond those points of interchange for which the carrier
is compensated under its interstate line-haul rates. P. 406.
These findings are an adjudication by the Commission that the
spotting service within the plants is not transportation service
which the carriers are bound to render in respect of receipt and
delivery of freight.
2. The Commission is not foreclosed by its earlier decisions from investigating the varied practice of making allowances for plant
switching and from making proper orders to regulate the practice
and prevent performance of a service not within the carriers' transportation obligation. P. 407.
3. Upon finding that the carriers' service of transportation is complete upon delivery to the industries' interchange tracks, and that

