OCTOBER TERM, 1936.

292

Syllabus.

301 U. S.

OHIO BELL TELEPHONE CO. v. PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF OHIO.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF OHIO.

No. 539.

Argued April 6, 7, 1937.-Decided April 26, 1937.

1. As bases for an order requiring a telephone company to refund
to its patrons "excess" earnings collected during a series of years,
a state commission valued the company's property for each of
those years by applying to the value in an earlier year, which it
had determined on hearings, price trend percentages said to have
been derived from evidence of which the commission took judicial
notice but which it withheld from its records and refused to
reveal.-Held a denial of due process of law. P. 300.
2. A fair hearing is essential to due process; without it, there is
condemnation without trial. P. 300.
3. Judicial notice may be taken of the fact that there has been an
economic depression, with decline of market values; but judicial
notice cannot be taken of the values of land, labor, buildings and
equipment, with their yearly fluctuations. P. 300.
4. This distinction is the more important in cases where the extent
of the fluctuations is not collaterally involved but is the very
point in issue. P. 301.
5. Taking of judicial notice has no other effect than to relieve one
of the parties to a controversy of the burden of resorting to the
usual forms of evidence; his opponent is at liberty to dispute
the matter by evidence. P. 301.
6. To press the doctrine of judicial notice to the extent attempted
in tlis case and to do that retroactively after the case had been
submitted, would be to turn the doctrine into a pretext for
dispensing with a trial. P. 302.
7. From the standpoint of due process-the protection of the individual against arbitrary action-a deeper vice than the unreasonable extension of judicial notice is in this case the
concealment from the party affected of the particular or evidential
facts of which judicial notice was taken by the commission and
on which it rested its conclusion. P. 302.
8. Under the statutes of Ohio no provision is made for a review of
the order of the Public Utilities Commission by a separate or
independent suit. The sole method of review is by petition in
error to the Supreme Court of the State, which considers both the

OHIO BELL TEL. CO. v. COMM'N.
292

Opinion of the Court.

law and the facts upon the record made. below, and not upon new
evidence. If, as in this case, that court merely accepts findings
of the commission attributed to judicial notice and unsupported
by any known or knowable evidence, judicial review is denied.
P. 303.
9. In view of the power and discretion reposed in regulatory commissions, the inexorable safeguard of a fair and open hearing
must be maintained in its integrity in their proceedings. P. 304.
10. The right to such a hearing is one of the rudiments of fair play
assured to every litigant by the Fourteenth Amendment as a
minimal requirement. There can be no compromise on the footing of convenience or expediency, or because of a natural desire to
be rid of harassing delay, when that minimal requirement has been
neglected or ignored. P. 304.
11. The appellant in this case has not estopped itself from objecting
to the use of price trends gathered in its absence. P. 306.
131 Oh. St. 539; 3 N. E. (2d) 475, reversed.

Appeal from a judgment sustaining on appeal an order
of the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio requiring the
Telephone Company to refund "excess earnings" to its
patrons.
Messrs. W. H. Thompson and Karl E. Burr, with
whom Messrs. TV. B. Stewart, Ashley M.

Van Duzer,

Thomas V. Koykka, and CharlesM. Bracelen were on the
brief, for appellant.
Mr. Donald C. Power and Mr. TV. W. Metcalf, As-

sistant Attorney. General of Ohio, with whom Messrs.

Herbert S. Duffy, Attorney General, and A. F. O'Neil,
Assistant Attorney

General,

were

on the brief,

for

appellee.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO delivered the opinion of the
Court.

The rates chargeable by the appellant, the Ohio Bell

Telephone Company, for intrastate telephone service to
subscribers and patrons in Ohio are the subject-matter
of this controversy.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

Appellant was reorganized in September, 1921, by consolidation with the Ohio State Telephone Company, till
then a competitor. Soon afterwards it filed with the Public Utilities Commission of the state schedules of new
rates to be charged in those communities where an increase was desired for the unified service. Except in the
case of toll charges the rates were not state-wide, but
were separately stated for each of the company's exchanges, of which there were many. By the statutes
then in force (the Robinson law, passed December 19,
1919, 108 Ohio Laws 1094, as amended by the Pence
law, passed April 4, 1923, 110 Ohio Laws 366), the operation of an increase might be suspended for 120 days,
at the end of which time the rate was to go into effect
upon the filing of a bond for the repayment to consumers
of such portion of the increased rate as the Commission
upon final hearing should determine to have been excessive, with interest thereon. Construing these statutes the
Ohio courts have held that a refund must be limited to
rates collected under a bond, jurisdiction being disclaimed
when that condition was not satisfied. Lima v. Public
Utilities Comm'n, 106 Ohio St. 379, 386; 140 N. E. 147;
Great Miami Valley Taxpayers Assn. v. Public Utilities
Comm'n, 131 Ohio St. 285, 286; 2 N. E. (2d) 777. Some
of the new exchange schedules were the subject of protests, and in proceedings to revise them (known as Pence
Law proceedings) were made effective by bonds, a separate one for each exchange. Protest was also aimed at
the new schedule for toll service which was to apply
throughout the state. On the other hand, schedules for
other exchanges became effective without protest and
therefore without bond, and are not now at issue.
By October 1924, thirty-one Pence law proceedings
aimed at separate exchanges had been begun, but had not
been fully tried. Already several thousand pages of testi-

OHIO BELL TEL. CO. v. COMM'N.
292

Opinion of the Court.

mony had been taken and many exhibits received in evidence. Soon afterwards, twelve additional proceedings
were begun, making the total number forty-three, exclusive of the toll case. Two other proceedings were started
later on. While the number stood at forty-three, the
Commission of its own motion, by order dated October
14, 1924, directed a company-wide investigation of appellant's property and rates, and consolidated the bond
cases therewith. The order recites that in all the pending
proceedings the important issues are identical, and that
a single consolidated case will enable rates to be determined for all services within the state at a minimum expenditure of time and money. Accordingly, the company
was required to file with the Commission on or before
December 1', 1924, a complete inventory of all its property, used and useful in its business, and upon the filing
of such inventory, the consolidated case was to "proceed
to a hearing for the determination of the fair value of
said property and of the just and reasonable rates for
the service thereby, to be furnished by said company to
its patrons throughout the state of Ohio." The statewide investigation thus initiated, as distinguished from
the Pence Law proceedings consolidated therewith, had
its legal basis in provisions of the General Code of Ohio
(§ 499-8, 499-9), and its scope was confined to the rates
chargeable in the future (§ 614-23), the Pence Law being
the basis for any refund of rates collected in the past.
The statute (§ 499-9) makes it mandatory that in fixing
rates for the future, the Commission shall ascertain the
value of the property as "of a date certain" to be named.
The date adopted for that purpose was June 30, 1925.
The company filed an inventory as required by the
Commission with supplemental inventories every six
months thereafter showing additions and retirements. A
long investigation followed, the evidence being directed

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

in the main to the value of the property on the basis of
historical cost and cost of reproduction, and to the deductions chargeable to gross revenues for depreciation
reserve and operating expenses generally. As early as
February, 1927, the case was submitted to the Commission for the fixing of a tentative value as of the date certain, a tentative value being subject under the.Ohio Code
to protest and readjustment. At the request of the Attorney General, however, the proceeding was reopened
and new evidence introduced. At last, on January 10,
1931, the Commission announced its tentative conclusion.
The valuation then arrived at was $104,282,735, for all
the property within the state, whether used in interstate
or in intrastate business. Protests were filed both by the
company and by the state and municipalities. They were
followed by new hearings. On January 16, 1934, the
Commission made its findings and order setting forth
what purports to be a final valuation. The intrastate
property as of June 30, 1925, was valued at $93,707,488;
the total property, interstate and intrastate, at $96,422,276.
The Commission did not confine itself, however, to a
valuation of the property as of the date certain. It
undertook also tp fix a valuation for each of the years
1926 to 1933 inclusive. For this purpose it took judicial
notice of price trends during those years, modifying the
value which it had found as of the date certain by the
percentage of decline or rise applicable to the years thereafter. The first warning that it would do this came in
1934 with the filing of its report. "The trend of land valuation was ascertained," according to the findings, "from
examination of the tax value in communities where the
company had its largest real estate holdings." "For
building trends resort was had to. price indices of the Engineering News Record, a recognized magazine in the field

OHIO BELL TEL. CO. v. COMMI'N.
292

Opinion of the Court.

of engineering construction." "Labor trends were developed from the same sources." Reference was made also
to the findings of a federal court in Illinois (Illinois Bell
Telephone Co. v. Gilbert, 3 F. Supp. 595, 603) as to the
price levels upon sales of apparatus and equipment by
Western Electric, an affiliated corporation. The findings
were not in evidence, though much of the testimony and
exhibits on which they rested had been received by stipulation for certain limited purposes, and mainly to discover whether the prices paid to the affiliate were swollen
beyond reason.* Cf. Dayton Power & Light Co. v. Public Utilities Comm', 292 U. S. 290, 295. The Commission consulted these findings as indicative of market
trends and leaned upon them heavily. By resort to these
and cognate sources, the value at the beginning of 1926
was fixed at 98.73% of the value at the date certain; the
1927 value at 95.7%; the 1928 value at 95%; the 1929
value at 96.3%; 1930 value'at 92.2%; the 1931 value
at 86.6%; the 1932 value at 76.8%; the 1933 value at
79.1%. Upon thatbasis the company was found to have
been in receipt of excess earnings of $13,289,172, distributed as follows: for 1925, $1,822,647; for 1926, $2,041,483; for 1927, $1,986,610; for 1928, $1,925,301; for 1929,
*The stipulation states that the testimony and exhibits "shall, however, be considered upon four issues involved in this cause and four
only, viz:
"1. The earnings of the Western Electric and the reasonableness of
such earnings.
"2. The cost to the American Telephone and Telegraph Company
of rendering services under the license contract and the reasonable
amount which should be allocated in that respect to The Ohio Bell
Telephone Company.
"3. The separation and apportionment of the property, revenues
and expenses of The Ohio Bell Telephone Company as between its

intrastate and interstate property, revenues and expenses.
"4. Rate of return."

298

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

$1,463,347; for 1930, $1,481,689; for 1931, $1,659,760;
for 1932, $908,335; for 1933, nothing. The excess was arrived at by figuring a return of 7% upon the value as a
reasonable rate for the years 1925 to 1929, inclusive; 6.5%
for the years 1930 and 1931; and 5.5% for the years 1932
and 1933. There being no excess revenue for the year
1933, the last year covered by the report, the Commission
did not fix any percentage of reduction for the rates in
future years. It did, however, prescribe a refund of the
full amount of the excess for the years in which excess
earnings were found to have been realized. The statewide proceeding to fix rates for the future on the basis of
a date certain was thus transformed finally into a refund
proceeding, similar in function to proceedings under the
Pence law for the refund of charges collected under bonds.
The report of the Commission determining the excess was
signed by a majority of the members, the Chairman dissenting. It was accompanied by an order similar in tenor.
The company protested and moved for a rehearing.
In its protest it stated that the trend percentages accepted
in the findings as marking a decline in values did not
come from any official sources which the Commission
had the right to notice judicially; that they had not
been introduced in evidence; that the company had not
been given an opportunity to explain or rebut them; and
that by their use the Commission had denied a fair
hearing in contravention of the requirements of the
Fourteenth Amendment. Demand was made that an
opportunity be conceded for explanation and rebuttal;
demand was made also that the company be permitted
to submit evidence showing separately for each year the
fair value of its property, its revenues, expenses and net
income in each of the several cases wherein rates had
been collected under bond. This last was a renewal of
a demand which had been made several times in the

OHIO BELL TEL. CO. v. COMM'N.
292

Opinion of the Court.

course of the inquiry, as the Commission in its report
concedes. By order dated March 1, 1934, the protests

were overruled, and the demands rejected. By order
dated July 5 of the same year the Commission modified
to some extent its findings as to the excess income referable to bonded rates, and directed the company to show
cause why refunds of the excess should not be made upon
that basis. Again there was protest with a renewal of
the reguest that evidence be received along the lines
already indicated. Again the Commission reaffirmed its
previous position.
The outcome of these manoeuvres was the filing of a
final order, dated September 6, 1934, apportioning the
excess income between bonded and non-bonded rates by
allocating to the former class a total of $11,423,137 for
exchange subscribers and $409,127 for toll patrons (in all
$11,832,264) and directing payment accordingly.. Distribution was to be made among the several exchanges
upon the basis of the percentage relation of the gross
exchange revenuesin the exchanges where bonds were
in effect to the total gross exchange revenues, bonded and
unbonded. If even a single rate in a particular exchange,
e. g., in the city of Cleveland, had been collected under
bond, all the revenues of that exchange were included
in reckoning the percentage of the total that should go
to the Cleveland customers. So much of the excess as
was not used up in that way was apportioned to the
tolls. This method of allocation was made the subject
of another protest, the company insisting that it was
arbitrary and unequal and a denial of due process. Petitions in error were filed with the Supreme Court of Ohio
in accordance with the state practice (General Code,
§ 544 et seq.) to review the final order of September 6,
1934, and the several intermediate orders supporting, it.
There was timely and adequate assertion of the infringe-

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

ment of the petitioner's rights under the Fourteenth
Amendment. The Supreme Court of Ohio affirmed with
ail opinion per curiani. 131 Ohio St. 539; 3 N. E. (2d)
475. The case is here upon appeal. Judicial Code,
§ 237, 28 U. S. C. . 344.
First: The fundamentals of a trial were denied to the
appellant when rates previously collected were ordered to
be refunded upon the strength of evidential facts not
spread upon the record.
The Commission had given notice that the value of
the property would be fixed as of a date certain. Evidence directed to ti'a value at that time had been laid
before the triers of the facts in thousands of printed
pages. To make the picture more complete, evidence
had been given as to the value at cost of additions and
retirements. Without warning or even the hint of warning that the case would be considered or determined upon
any other basis than the evidence submitted, the Commission cut clown the values for the years after the date
certain upon the strength of information secretly collected
and never yet disclosed. The company protested. It
asked disclosure of the documents indicative of price
trends, and an opportunity to examine them, to analyze
them, to explain and to rebut them. The response was
a curt refusal. Upon the strength of these unknown
documents refunds have been ordered for sums mounting into millions, the Commission reporting its conclusion, but not the underlying proofs. The putative debtor
does not know the proofs today. This is not the fair
hearing essential to due process. It is condemnation
without trial.
An attempt was made by the Commission and again
by the state court to uphold this decision 'without evidence as an instance of judicial notice. Indeed, decisions of this court were cited (Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry.

OHIO BELL TEL. CO. v. COiM'N.
292

Opinion of the Court.

Co. v. United States, 284 U. S. 248, 260; Dayton Power
& Light Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n, supra, p. 311;
Central Kentucky Natural Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission, 290 U. S. 264, 274, 275) as giving support to the
new doctrine that the values of land and labor and buildings and equipment, with all their yearly fluctuations,
no longer call for evidence. Our opinions have been much
misread if they have been thought to point that way.
Courts take judicial notice of matters of common knowledge. 5 Wigmore, Evidence, §§ 2571, 2580, 2583; Thayer,
Preliminary Treatise on Evidence, pp. 277, 302. They
take judicial notice that there has been a depression,
and that a decline of market values is one of its concomitants.. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. United States,
supra; Dayton Power & Light Co. v. Public .Utilities
Comm'n, supra; Central Kentucky Natural Gas Co. v.
Railroad Commission, supra. How great the decline has
been for this industry or that, for one material or another, in this year or the next, can be known only to the
experts, who may -even differ among themselves. For
illustration, a court takes judicial notice of the fact that
Confederate money depreciated in value during the war
between the states (Wood v. Cooper, 2 Heisk. (Tenn.)
441, 447; Hix v. Hix, 25 W. Va. 481, 484, 485), but not
of the extent of the depreciation at a given time and
place. Modawell v. Holmes, 40 Ala. 391, 405. Cf. Feemster v. Ringo, 5 T. B. Munroe (Ky.) 336, 337; Baxter
v. McDonnell, 155 N. Y. 83, 93; 49 N. E. 667. The
distinction is the more important in cases where as here
the extent of the fluctuations is not collaterally involved
but is the very point in issue. Moreover, notice, even
when taken, has no other effect than to relieve one of
the parties to a controversy of the burden of resorting to
the usual forms of evidence. Wigmore, Evidence, § 2567;
1 Greenleaf, Eviden~e, 16th ed., p. 18. "It does not

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

mean that the opponent is prevented from disputing
the matter by evidence if he believes it disputable."
Ibid. Cf. Shapleigh v. Mier, 299 U. S. 468. Such at
least is the general rule, to be adhered to in the absence
of exceptional conditions. Here the contention would be
futile that the precise amount of the decline in values
was so determinate or notorious in each and every year
between 1925 and 1933 as to be beyond the range of
question. So much is indeed conceded on the face of
the report itself. No rational concept of notoriety will
include these variable elements. True, the category is
not a closed one. "The precedents of former judges,
in declining to notice or assenting to notice specific facts,
do not restrict the present judge from noticing. a new
fact, provided only that the new fact is notorious to the
community." 5 Wigmore, Evidence, § 2583. Even so,
to press the doctrine of judicial notice to the extent attempted in this case and to do that retroactively after
the case had been submitted, would be to turn the doctrine into a pretext for dispensing with a trial.
What was done by the Commission is subject, however,
to an objection even deeper. Cf. Brown v. New Jersey,
175 U. S.. 172, 174, 175; West v. Louisiana, 194 U. S. 258,
262, 263. There has been more than an expansion of the
concept of notoriety beyond reasonable limits. From the
standpoint of due process-the protection of the individual against arbitrary action-a deeper vice is this,
that even now we do not know the particular or evidential facts of which the Commission took judicial notice
and on which it rested its conclusion. Not only are the
facts unknown; there is no way to find themout. When
price lists or trade journals or even government reports
are put in evidence upon a trial, the party against whom
they are offered may see the evidence or hear it and parry
its effect. Even if they are copied in the findings without

OHIO BELL TEL. CO. v. COMM'N.
292

Opinion of the Court.

preliminary proof, there is at least an opportunity in connection with a judicial review of the decision to challenge
the deductions made from them. The opportunity is excluded here. The Commission, withholding from the record the evidential facts that it has gathered here and
there, contents itself with saying that in gathering them
it went to journals and tax lists, as if a judge were to tell
us, "I looked at the statistics in the Library of Congress,
and they teach me thus and so." This will never do if
hearings and appeals are to be more than empty forms.
We have pointed out elsewhere that under the statutes
of Ohio no provision is made for a review of the order of
the Commission by a separate or independent suit. West
Ohio Gas Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n (No. 1), 294
U. S. 63, 68. A different question would be here if such
a suit could be maintained with an intermediate suspension of the administrative ruling. Porter v. Investors
Syndicate, 286 U. S. 461, 470, 471; United States v. Illinois Central R. Co., 291 U. S. 457, 403; Nickey v. Mississippi, 292 U. S. 393, 396; Wells, Fargo & Co. v. Nevada,
248 U. . 165, 168. Cf. Norwegian Nitrogen Co. v. United
States, 288 U. S. 294, 318, 319. In Ohio the sole method
of review is by petition in error to the Supreme Court
of the State, which considers both the law and the facts
upon the record made below, and not upon new evidence.
In such circumstances judicial review would be no longer
a reality if the practice followed in this case were to receive the stamp of regularity. To put the problem more
concretely: how was it possible for the appellate court
to review the law and the facts and intelligently decide
that the findings of the Commission were supported by
the evidence when the evidence that it approved was unknown and unknowable? In expressing that approval
the court did not mean that, traveling beyond the record,
it had consulted price lists for itself and had reached its

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

own conclusion as to the percentage of decline in value
from 1925 onwards. It did not even mean that it had
looked at the particular lists made use of by the Commission, for no one knows what they were in any precise or
certain way. Nowhere in the opinion is there even the
hint of such a search. What the Supreme Court of Ohio
did was to take the word of the Commission as to the outcome of a secret investigation, and let it go at that. "A
hearing is not' judicial, at least in any adequate sense,
unless the evidence can be known." West Ohio!Gas CO.
v. Public Utilities Comm'n (No. 1), supra, p. 69. Cf.
Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Louisville & N. R. Co.,
227 U. S. 88, 91; United States v. Abilene & Southern Ry.
Co., 265 U. S. 274, 288; Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S.
258, 263, 264, 265.
Regulatory commissions have been invested with broad
powers within the sphere of duty assigned to them by law.
Even in quasi-judicial proceedings their informed and expert judgment exacts and receives a proper deference
from courts when it has been reached with due submissi6n
to constitutional restraints. West Ohio Gas Co. v. Public
Utilities Comm'n (No. 1), supra, p. 70; West Ohio Gas
Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n (No. 2), 294 U. S. 79;
Los Angeles Gas & Electric Corp. v. RailroadCommission,
289 U. S. 287, 304. Indeed, much that they do within
the realm of administrative discretion is exempt from
supervision if those restraints have been obeyed. All the
more insistent is the need, when power has been bestowed
so freely, that the "inexorable safeguard" (St. Joseph
Stock Yards Co. v. United States, 298 U. S. 38,. 7.3) of 'a
fair and open hearing be maintained in its integrity.
Morgan v. United States, 298 U. S. 468, 480, 481; Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Louisville & N. R. Co., supra:
The right to such a hearing is one of "the rudiments of
fair play" (Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Polt, 232 U. S.

OHIO BELL TEL. CO. v. COMM'N.
Opinion of the Court.

292

165, 168) assured to every litigant by the Fourteenth
Amendment as a minimal requirement. West Ohio Gas
Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n (No. 1), (No. 2), supra;
Brinkerhoff-Faris Co. v. Hill, 281 U. S. 673, 682. Cf.
Norwegian Nitrogen Co. v. United States, supra. There
can be no compromise on the footing of convenience or
expediency, or because of a natural desire to be rid of
harassing delay, when that minimal requirement has been
neglected or ignored.
In an endeavor to sustain the judgment the State shifts
its line of argument from the course pursued below, so
far, at least, as the course then followed is reflected in the
record. Both the Commission and the Supreme Court of
Ohio tell us that they have applied the price trends to
the value on the day certain by resort to judicial notice.
The State now suggests that whatever the court or the
Commission may have professed to be doing, there was
a basis in the evidence for the conclusion ultimately
reached. To give aid to that suggestion reference is
made to the findings of a federal court as to the prices
charged by Western Electric for telephone equipment,
which findings were not in evidence, though they were
founded upon evidence received by stipulation for purposes narrowly defined and exclusive of any others. The
terms of the stipulation have already been stated in this
opinion. Even if we assume in favor of the state that
the evidence, when in, could be considered as indicative
of the trend of market values generally, the judgment .is
not helped. The Commission did not take the prices
paid by appellant to the affiliated corporation 'as the only
evidence of market trends, but merely as one factor along
with many others. What weighting it gave them the
record does not disclose, and the Commission denied the
appellant an opportunity to inquire. According to appellant's computation, telephone apparatus and equip146212°-37--20

306

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

ment make up less than 30% of the value of appellant's
plant. Even for that portion of the plant, the Western
Electric prices were, not accepted as decisive, but were
supplemented and corrected from sources dehors the
record. For the other 70%, they were without probative
significance, at all events until supplemented by evidence
that the decline in the value of apparatus and equipment
was less than that in the value of land or buildings or
other components of the plant. To fix the value of these
components the Commission had recourse to statistics
which it collected for itself. "There was no suitable
opportunity through evidence
argument . . . to
challenge the result." West Ohio Gas Co. v. Public
Utilities Commission (No. 1), supra, p. 90.
Second: The appellant has not estopped itself from
objecting to the use of price trends gathered in its
absence.
The company did not oppose the consolidation of the
state-wide investigation with the Pence law proceedings.
This did not amount, however, to a waiver of its right
to have the value of its property determined upon evideqce. At no stage of the inquiry was there any suggestion by the Commission that a different course would
be pursued. We have no need to consider how the
separate proceedings would have been affected by a
valuation of the property in the general investigation
if the evidence of value had been gathered in the usual
way. In the thought of the state such a course would
have obviated the necessity for separate evidence of
value as to the exchanges under bond, but the company
dontended otherwise and made offers of proof in support
of its contention. -The merits of the opposing views in
that regard may be put aside as irrelevant upon the
record now before us. What is certain in any event is
this, that nothing in the course of the irial gave warning
,and

OHIO BELL TEL. CO. v. COMM'N.
292

Opinion of the Court.

of the purpose of the Commission, while rejecting evidence of value in respect of exchanges under bond, to
wander afield and fix the composite value of the system
without reference to any evidence, upon proofs drawn
from the clouds. As there was no warning of such a
course, so also there was no consent to it. We do not
presume acquiescence in the loss of fundamental rights.
Third: The allocation of excess income among the
subscribers to exchanges and also among toll patrons is
challenged by the appellant, the state retorting with the
contention that there has been no denial of due process
in the manner of partition, whatever may be said as to
the possibility of inaccuracy or error.
We find it unnecessary at this time to choose between
these two contentions. A court is not required to define
the proper method of allocation until there has been a
proper ascertainment of the thing to be allocated. When
that has been done, there may be agreement or acquiescence in respect of the manner of division. Moreover, upon another hearing the problem may be eliminated if value, revenues and expenses are proved for each
exchange.
Fourth: The same reasons that make it unnecessary
to fix the method of allocation relieve us of the duty of
passing upon other problems, such as those of going concern value and depreciation reserve, which cannot be
disposed of adequately until the value of the physical
plant has first been ascertained.
The decree is reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings not iriconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

