OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

301 U. S.

difficult to understand, and conform to decisions heretofore given by this Court in respect of related questions."
I therefore am of opinion that there is no objectionable
uncertainty about the standard of guilt and that the
statute does not in that regard infringe the constitutional
guaranty of due process of law.
Believing that the statute under which the conviction
was had is not subject to the objections leveled against
it, I think the judgment of the supreme court of the State
denying the petition for habeas corpus should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE

SUTHERLAND

and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER join in this dissent.
STEELMAN, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY, v. ALL
CONTINENT CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 638.

Argued March 29, 30, 1937.-Decided April 26, 1937.

1. Jurisdiction of a bankruptcy court to administer a bankrupt
estate draws to itself, when once it has attached, an incidental
or ancillary jurisdiction to give protection to the estate against
waste or disintegration while frauds upon its integrity are in
process of discovery. P. 289.
2. Pending bankruptcy proceedings in New Jersey in which examinations were being carried on under § 21 (a) of the Bankruptcy
Act at the instance of the trustee for the purpose of exposing the
relations of the bankrupt to a corporation formed and controlled
by him, to which he had transferred valuable securities and which,
there was ground to believe, was a mere instrument for defrauding his creditors, the corporation, having already filed a claim
in the bankruptcy case, brought suit in a federal court in Pennsylvania for the alleged purpose of quieting its title to part of
Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 212 U. S. 86, 108-111; Nash v.
United States, 229 U. S. 373, 376-378.

STEELMAN v. ALL CONTINENT CO.
278

279

Opinion of the Court.

the securities then in custody of brokers in that State, and served
the Trustee, under Jud. Code, § 57, as an absent party. There
was probable cause to believe that the suit was a step in a
fraudulent conspiracy of the bankrupt, his relatives and the corporation, impeding and perhaps frustrating the administration of
the assets, and that only by a plenary suit to be brought (and
which later was brought) by the Trustee, in New Jersey, could
the danger of obstruction be averted and the estate be kept intact,
pending inquiry into the alleged fraud. Held that the court of
bankruptcy had power to enjoin the corporation from prosecuting
the suit in Pennsylvania. Pp. 285, 288.
3. Restraint of a plaintiff from prosecuting his case is not restraint
of the court. P. 290.
86 F. (2d) 913, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 300 U. S. 648, to review the reversal of a
decree of the District Court, in bankruptcy, 16 F. Supp.
949, which restrained the prosecution against the Trustee
of a suit in another federal court.
Mr. Win. D. Whitney, with whom Messrs. Win. Elmer
Brown, Jr., and C. Brewster Rhoads were on the brief,
for petitioner.
Mr. Murry C. Becker, with whom Mr. Benjamin Reass
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The question is one as to the power of a court of bankruptcy, in the situation developed in the record, to enjoin
the prosecution of a suit in another federal court upon the
ground that the suit, if pressed to a decree, may thwart an
inquiry into frauds charged against the bankrupt, or
make relief against them difficult.
William Fox was adjudicated a bankrupt on May 29,
1936, in the United States District Court for the District
of New Jersey. On the petition of two creditors an order

280

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

was made under § 21a of the Bankruptcy Act (11 U. S. C.
§ 44a) for the examination of All Continent Corporation
(a Delaware corporation), its president Eva Fox, who
was also the bankrupt's wife, his daughters, and other
witnesses. The wife refused to submit to examination,
and was cited for contempt. When this record was made
up, the proceeding to punish her was still undetermined.
Meanwhile the examination proceeded with the aid of the
witnesses responding to the order. After seventeen or
more hearings the Referee made an order on August 18,
1936, whereby All Continent Corporation was directed to
deliver all its books and records to the trustee in bankruptcy (petitioner in this court) for examination and
audit. As a basis for the order, which was confirmed by
the court with unimportant changes (In re Fox, 16 F.
Supp. 950), the Referee certified the facts as they had
been developed through the evidence before him. By
this it appeared that All Continent Corporation was the
creation of the bankrupt himself, who had supplied every
dollar of its capital; that in doing this he had divested
himself of a substantial portion of his property; that the
entire capital stock, then claimed by his wife, had been
kept in his name upon the corporate books; that he had
retained in his possession and under his control the assets
of the corporation, made up of securities, and had dealt
with them on many occasions as if they were his own;
that he held a power of attorney, broad in its terms,
authorizing him to act for the corporation in the transaction of its business; that such books and records as
were. already in evidence disclosed disbursements for his
account, discrepancies between the entries and those in
his private books, and also erasures, corrections and interlineations affecting the scrutinized transactions, as well
as sales to the corporation on the eve of bankruptcy. In
the view of the Referee, this chain of facts, combined

STEELMAN v. ALL CONTINENT CO.
278

281

Opinion of the Court.

with many others in the testimony before him, was proof
"that the affairs of the All Continent Corporation were
so related to and intertwined with the property and affairs of the bankrupt" as to show the need for an exhaustive examination and audit of all the documents
available.
The enforcement of the order for the production of the
books and records was stayed by the District Court until
September 9, 1936. On that day the trustee was served
in New Jersey with a subpoena and bill of complaint in
a suit in the United States District Court for the Eastern
District of Pennsylvania. The complainant named
in the bill was the All Continent Corporation, which had
already filed a proof of claim against Fox in the bankruptcy proceeding; the defendants were the members of
the partnership of J. W. Sparks & Company, with whom
were joined as absentee defendants, Capital Company, a
corporation, and the petitioner in his capacity as trustee
of the estate. The suit was brought under § 57 of the
Judicial Code (28 U. S. C. § 118) to remove a cloud upon
the title to personal property claimed by the complainant.
The trustee not being "an inhabitant of or found within"
the district of the suit, an order directing him to plead
was served upon him in New Jersey after the service of
the bill. Judicial Code, § 57; 28 U. S. C. § 118. The
cloud to be removed had its origin in a third party subpoena issued out of a federal court in New York in proceedings supplementary to judgment. Capital Company, a corporation, had recovered a judgment against
Fox before he became bankrupt. A proceeding supplementary to judgment was begun, and we know from our
records that Fox refused to appear and was fined for contempt. Fox v. Capital Co., 299 U. S. 1Q5. In aid of
the same judgment, a third party subpoena was served
upon Sparks & Co., stockbrokers residing in Philadelphia

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

and there engaged in business. These brokers had upon
their books an account in the name of All Continent Corporation, in which Fox was believed to have an interest
as owner. The securities held in that account had a
value in excess of half a million dollars, subject to a debit
balance. To enable the judgment creditor to reach any
equity in those securities belonging to the debtor, the
subpoena served upon the brokers was accompanied by a
notice, which in effect was an injunction (New York Civil
Practice Act § 781), restraining them from disposing of
the property of William Fox until the further order of
the court. The validity of the injunction, though challenged by the brokers, was upheld upon appeal. Capital
Co. v. Fox, 85 F. (2d) 97. Because of that restraint, Sparks
& Co. refused to permit any securities to be withdrawn
from their custody or otherwise disposed of, having notice
of the claim that, irrespective of the form of the account,
the securities belonged to Fox. Anxious to resume the
control of the securities, All Continent Corporation sued
in Pennsylvania to establish title to the res. Capital Company was stated in the bill to have created a cloud upon
the title by issuing the third party subpoena with the
accompanying injunction. The trustee in bankruptcy
was stated to have helped to create the cloud by joining
with Capital Company in a request that the subpoena be
continued after the bankruptcy petition. Relief was demanded decreeing All Continent Corporation to be the
owner of the securities and entitled to possession upon
payment of the debit balance owing to the
brokers.
The trustee in bankruptcy upon service of the bill of
complaint petitioned the court of bankruptcy that it stay
the prosecution of the suit in Pennsylvania. The petition for a stay was granted. The opinion of the District
Judge (16 F. Supp. 949) states that a grave question has
arisen as to the ownership of the assets and shares of

STEELMAN v. ALL CONTINENT CO.
278

283

Opinion of the Court.

All Continent Corporation. Litigation as to such ownership "ought to be conducted by trustee after there has
been a full and complete disclosure of the facts in the
21 (a) examinations." "To require the trustee to appear
and defend that suit [i. e., the suit in Pennsylvania]
would interfere materially with proper administration." Further prosecution against him was accordingly
restrained.
From that decree All Continent Corporation appealed
to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Third Circuit. By consent of the parties the court made
an order including three additional documents in the
transcript of the record: (1) the bill of complaint in a
suit in the Court of Chancery in New Jersey; (2) an
order to show cause for an injunction pendente lite and
the appointment of a receiver; and (3) the answer of
Sparks & Co. in the suit in Pennsylvania. The suit in
the New Jersey Chancery was brought by the trustee in
bankruptcy against the bankrupt William Fox, his wife,
his daughters, his grandchildren, and the All Continent
Corporation. The bill was filed within a week from the
date of the restraining order. It charges fraud in the
transfer of securities and other assets to the corporation
at the time of its creation and also at later dates. It
charges fraud in the assignment of the shares of the
corporation by Fox to his wife, partly for her own benefit and partly for the benefit of children and grarfdchildren. It charges fraud in the opening of accounts with
stockbrokers, ostensibly for the use of the corporation
itself, but.really for the use of Fox alone. All these
transactfons are stated to have occurred in execution of
a unitary scheme, to which Fox, his wife and children
and the corporation were parties in its several manifestations, for the hindrance of creditors in the enforcement
of their rights and remedies. A decree is prayed enjoin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

ing the corporation from disposing of its assets, appointing a receiver to manage and preserve them during the
pendency of the suit, annulling all the transfers tainted
by the fraud, and decreeing a trust for the benefit of
the bankrupt and through him for the trustee. Upon
the filing of the bill the Chancellor made an order to
show cause why a receiver should not be appointed, and
he enjoined in the interim any transfer of the assets.
One other document, as we have indicated, was added
to the transcript. This was the answer of Sparks & Co.
in the suit in Pennsylvania. In that answer they state
the acceptance of securities from All Continent Corporation without notice that Fox or others had any interest therein; the existence of a debit balance of $308,764.97; the readiness of the customer to pay the debit
balance on the return of the securities; and the hardship
to the brokers involved in continuing the account with
all the risks incidental to future changes in the market.
Upon the record thus supplemented the Court of Appeals considered the appeal. 86 F. (2d) 913. It said
that "the real question in issue here is whether or not
the New Jersey court [i. e., the court of bankruptcy in
New Jersey] had the power to enjoin the appellant from
prosecuting its suit, under the facts in this case, in the
Pennsylvania court." It ruled that "the Pennsylvania
court, having first acquired jurisdiction of the property
and controversy, is entitled to exclusive jurisdiction, and
the institution of the suit in chancery was an attempt
to oust the Pennsylvania court of the jurisdiction which
it had previously and validly acquired." It coupled that
ruling with the statement that the corporation would be
entitled "upon proper application" to "restrain the trustee
from litigating the controversy elsewhere." It found in
the suit in the New Jersey Court of Chancery two separable controversies, one between the trustee and All

STEELMAN v. ALL CONTINENT CO.
278

285

Opinion of the Court.

Continent Corporation, the other between the trustee and
the members of the Fox family, the corporation being
stated to be the only necessary party defendant to the
first controversy and the Fox family the only necessary
parties defendant to the other. It concluded that upon
the facts. exhibited "the District Court of New Jersey
did not have the power to restrain the suit which the
statute clearly authorized to be brought in the Pennsylvania court." The decree of the court of bankruptcy
was accordingly reversed. The question of power being
important, we granted certiorari.
All Continent Corporation, if there is truth in the
charges made by the trustee, is a party to a conspiracy
to cover up the bankrupt's assets and keep them from
his creditors. In that view of the facts, the suit in
Pennsylvania will be a step in fulfilling the conspiracy,
and may even crown it with success. The inquiry into
the fraud, an inquiry going forward in orderly fashion
under the supervision of the court of bankruptcy, will
be transferred to another jurisdiction with the supposed
fraudulent grantee as dominus litis. In such a suit there
is danger that the issues to be tried may be so narrowly
restricted as to shut out the light. All Continent Corporation may be shown to have the legal title to the
securities in the keeping of its brokers. If so,-it may be
adjudged in a controversy with the brokers to be entitled
to possession, though its own shares are subject to a
secret trust for the benefit of the bankrupt. There will
be an absence of the parties without whom the adjudication of such a trust will be indecisive and perhaps impossible. If assignments of the shares have been made
by the bankrupt to his wife for his own use or for hers
or for the use of children and other relatives, the invalidity of such assignments may not be open to decision
unless the assignees of the shares are brought before the

286

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

court. Choses in action and other equitable assets, even
though fraudulently transferred, are not subject at common law to seizure under execution at the instance of a
creditor, but the transfer must be avoided by a decree in
equity. Stephens v. Cady, 14 How. 528, 531; Freedman's
Savings & Trust Co. v. Earle, 110 U. S. 710, 712; Anthony
v. Wood, 96 N. Y. 180, 185; American Surety Co. v.
Conner, 251 N. Y. 1, 5, 6; 166 S. E. 783. The need for
a decree is no less obvious and settled when title is to be
reclaimed at the suit of a trustee. There are times, it
is true, when a trustee may have the benefit of a summary
order for transfer or surrender, but this will never happen
as to property out of his possession unless the adverse
claim of title is colorable only. Taubel Co. v. Fox, 264
U. S. 426, 431, 433, 434; May v. Henderson, 268 U. S.
111, 115; Galbraithv. Vallely, 256 U. S. 46, 50; Taylor v.
Sternberg, 293 U. S. 470, 473. Quite as much as any
creditor, the trustee may thus be helpless to vindicate
his equities in the stilt in Pennsylvania, the parties being
what they are. Other difficulties will remain if these
can be surmounted. The bankrupt's wife may absent
herself from the trial, just as she has refused to submit
to examination in the bankruptcy proceeding, with the
result that the investigation of the equities may be
partial or abortive. Other witnesses may do the like.
The danger of frustration by such means will be much
greater in a suit by All Continent than in one by the
trustee, an officer of the court. In the end a fraudulent
grantee may gain possession of the securities with power
to distribute them among the members of the bankrupt's
family, and to do this, moreover, under cover of a decision
which will breed confusion and uncertainty in other suits
to follow.
All these embarrassments and obstacles will be removed at a single stroke if the bankruptcy court is freefrom vexatious interference in its task of supervising and

STEELMAN v. ALL CONTINENT CO.
278

287

Opinion of the Court.

controlling the administration of the assets. The facts
may then be uncovered without haste or impediment by
continuing the examination under § 21a. A plenary suit
may be brought with the trustee in control to ascertain
the legal and the equitable inteiests in All Continent's
assets and also in its shares of stock. All persons whose
interests will be affected by an appropriate decree, and
particularly the members of the bankrupt's family, adverse claimants to the shares, may be joined as defendants, as indeed they have been joined already in the New
Jersey Court of Chancery. To avoid the fraudtulent or
improvident exercise of dominion by the holder of the
legal title, an injunction may be granted restraining the
transfer of the assets until the issues have been determined. To avoid loss or hardship either to stockbrokers
or to others by tying up accounts without opportunity
for release a receiver may be appointed with power to
manage such accounts and preserve the assets generally.
All these forms of relief and others ancillary thereto will
be well within the powers of a court of equity if a suit
is maintained in the name of the trustee with the corporation, the bankrupt and his family parties to the record.
The suggestion will not hold that the controversy between the trustee and the corporation has no connection
with the controversy between the trustee, the bankrupt
and his relatives. Cf. Graves v. Corbin, 132 U. S. 571.
On the contrary, the remedy against the bankrupt and
his relatives is likely to be truncated and inadequate unless accompanied by an injunction and a receivership
which will bind the corporation, its officers and agents.
The suit in the New Jersey Court of Chancery, which the
court below has erroneously characterized as one that
should be restrained because brought after notice of the
suit in Pennsylvania, will supply an appropriate and convenient medium for the litigation of these issues if it is
permitted to go forward.

288

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

The decision under review, which gives free rein to the
prosecution of the suit in Pennsylvania, is built on the
assumption that in the circumstances exhibited there is
no power to apply a curb. The court has not found that
discretion was abused or improvidently exercised if power
was not lacking. This is plain from the opinion. It is
made plainer, if that be possible, by the argument of
counsel for the corporation, the respondent in this court,
disclaiming any effort to uphold the decision in his favor
in the absence of defect of power. With the controversy
thus narrowed the path is cleared to a conclusion. For
reasons already indicated there was probable cause for
the belief that the suit in Pennsylvania would be a step
in the execution of a fraudulent conspiracy, impeding
and perhaps frustrating the administration of the assets.
There was probable cause for the belief that only through
a suit upon the lines of the one in the New Jersey Chancery could the danger of obstruction be averted and the
estate be kept intact until the entry of a decree adjudging
the guilt or innocence of the putative conspirators.
Whether they are innocent or guilty is a question not
before us now. The data for the formation of any opinion on the subject have not yet been supplied. At present our inquiry halts with the discovery of probable cause
for preserving the estate from dismemberment or waste
through a precipitate decision. If such cause has been
made out, we think the court of bankruptcy has been
armed with abundant power to preserve the status quo
until there can be an adequate trial with all the necessary
parties and a judgment on the merits.
The Judicial Code provides (§ 262; 28 U. S. C. § 377)
that the United States courts "shall have power to issue all
writs not specifically provided for by statute, which may
be necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdictions and agreeable to the usages and principles of law."

STEELMAN v. ALL CONTINENT CO.

289

Opinion of the Court.

278

The Bankruptcy Act reinforces that authority by providing (§ 2 (15); 11 U. S. C. § 11 (15)) that courts of bankruptcy are invested with jurisdiction "at law and in equity" to "make such orders, issue such process and enter
such judgments in addition to those specifically provided
for as may be necessary for the enforcement of the provisions of this title." Referring to these statutes, this
court has said that "the power to issue an injunction
when necessary to prevent the defeat or impairment of
its jurisdiction is . . . inherent in a court of bankruptcy, as it is in a duly established court of equity."
Continental Bank v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry., 294 U. S.
648, 675. Cf. Local Loan Co. v. Hunt, 292 U. S. 234, 240,
241; Kline v. Burke ConstructionCo., 260 U. S. 226, 229;
Looney v. Eastern Texas R. Co., 247 U. S. 214, 221.
Jurisdiction to administer the estate draws to itself, when
once it has attached, an incidental or ancillary jurisdic-,
tion to give protection to the estate against waste or disintegration while frauds upon its integrity are in process
of discovery. This power so obviously necessary to the
attainment of the ends of justice has been exercised by
the lower federal courts in a great variety of circumstances. There have been orders directing payment of
moneys into the registry of the court until a plenary suit
can be brought to recover them (In re Mitchell, 278 Fed.
707), restraining an adverse claimant from disposing of
property in advance of a decree (In re Norris, 177 Fed.
598; Pyle v. Texas Transport & Terminal Co., 185 Fed.
309), and enjoining possessory actions that might jeopardize relief in equity. In re Republic Plumbing Supply
Corp., 295 Fed. 573; cf. Blake v. Nesbet, 144 Fed. 279;
In re Blake, 171 Fed. 298; In re Nathan Turim, Inc., 55
F. (2d) 672. If suits can be enjoined when they are
found to have a tendency to embarrass administration,
a fortiori this may be done when there is a basis for the
146212.-37-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

fear that they will be used as instruments or devices to
render fraud triumphant. Not improbably the order in
this case might better have imposed a condition that a
plenary suit must be brought within a reasonable time.
This defect, if it be one, is now of no importance, for by
concession such a suit was brought within a week. There
will be no occasion for delay if the corporation, the bankrupt and his family will co6perate in working for a quick
decision. In such circumstances there can be no wrong or
prejudice to All Continent by postponing its suit in Pennsylvania to a more comprehensive and efficient remedy
that will put conflicting claims at rest. Cf. Wehrman v.
Conklin, 155 U. S. 314, 329., Delay and expedition will
be subject to the control of equity. "In that predicament the malleable processes of courts of bankruptcy
give assurance of a remedy that can be moulded and
adapted to the needs of the occasion." Brown v. O'Keefe,
300 U. S. 598.
Much of the argument for the respondent has been
directed to a showing that the suit in Pennsylvania is not
subject to restraint for defect of jurisdiction, and this for
the reason that the res to be affected-the securities held
by Sparks & Co. in their office in Philadelphia-had not
come within the actual or constructive possession of the
court of bankruptcy in New Jersey when the suit was
begun to remove the cloud upon title. Cf. Fort Dearborn Trust & Savings Bank v. Smalley, 298 Fed. 45;
Molina v. Murphy, 71 F. (2d) 605; In re Adolf Gobel,
Inc., 80 F. (2d) 849. The argument misconceives the
grounds upon which the trustee looks to us for aid. The
trustee does not challenge the jurisdiction of the federal
court in Pennsylvania, if the word jurisdiction be taken in
its strict and proper sense. Cf. Straton v. New, 283 U. S.
318, 321; Isaacs v. Hobbs Tie & Timber Co., 282 U. S. 734,
737, 738. He is not seeking a writ of prohibition directed

STEELMAN v. ALL CONTINENT CO.
278

291

Opinion of the Court.

to the court itself. He is not seeking an injunction to
vindicate his exclusive control over a res in his possession,
or in the possession, actual or constructive, of the court
that appointed him. Isaacs v. Hobbs Tie & Timber Co.,
supra; Murphy v. John Homan Co., 211 U. S. 562, 568,
569; Moran v. Sturges, 154 U. S. 256, 274. What he
seeks is an injunction directed to a suitor, and not to any
court, upon the ground that the suitor is misusing a jurisdiction which by hypothesis exists, and converting it by
such misuse into an instrument of wrong. Gage v. Riverside Trust Co., 86 Fed. 984, 998, 999; Higgins v. California Prune & Apricot Growers, 282 Fed. 550, 557; Cole
v. Cunningham, 133 U. S. 107, 112, 117, 118. Suits as
well as transfers may be the protective coverings of fraud.
Shapiro v. Wilgus, 287 U. S. 348, 355. We are unable to
yield assent to the statement of the court below that
"the restraint of a proper party is legally tantamount to
the restraint of the court itself." The reality of the dis..
tinction has illustration in a host of cases. 2 Story, Eq.
Jur., 14th ed., § 1195; 5 Pomeroy, Eq. Jur., § 2091; Cole
v. Cunningham, supra; Madisonville Traction Co. v.
Mining Co., 196 U. S. 239, 245; Kessler v. Eldred, 206
U. S. 285; Rickey Land & Cattle Co. v. Miller & Lux,
218 U. S. 258; Toledo Scale Co. v. Computing Scale Co.;
261 U. S. 399, 426; Smith v. Apple, 264 U. S. 274, 279.
Cf. Judicial Code, § 265; 28 U. S. C. § 379; Brown v.
Pacific Mutual Life Ins. Co., 62 F. (2d) 711, 713; Chicago
Title & Trust Co. v. Fox Theatres Corp., 69 F. (2d) 60,
61, 62.
The decree of the Court of Appeals is reversed and that
of the District Court affirmed.
Reversed.

