412

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

301 U. S.

complete upon delivery to the industries' interchange
tracks is not supported by the circumstantial facts found
or by the evidence; that the orders here involved are
based upon a misconstruction of the Act, and that the
decrees of the district court should be affirmed.,

GREAT ATLANTIC & PACIFIC TEA CO.'
GROSJEAN, SUPERVISOR
COUNTS, ET AL.

OF

ET AL. V.

PUBLIC- AC-

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THF, UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

No'. 652.

Argued March 30, 31, 1937.-Decided May 17, 1937.

1. Without contravening the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, a State may separately classify for taxation the conduct of a chain store, and may increase the rate
in proportion to the increase in the number of stores .within
the State, since the opportunities and powers of a chain store
operator become greater with the growth of the number of units
maintained. Fox v. Standard Oil Co., 294 U. S. 87, 100. P. 419.
2. In adjusting the rate for a chain store within the State, the
legislature may take into account the size of the chain to which
the store belongs, by counting the total number of its units
wherever located. P. 419.
3. Act No. 51, of Louisiana, 1934, which lays a progressively increasing rate of taxation on the operation of chain stores within
the State, taking into account all the stores -in the chain, whether
within the State or outside, does not drbitrarily discriminate against
sectional or national chains in favor of intrastate chains. P. 421.
The findings on evidence showed that the competitive advantage of chains increased with the number of component links, and
that the addition of units to a chain increased the competitive
advantage of each store in the chain.
4. That the statute, by taking into account all units indiscriminately in fixing the rate, may fail accurately to adjust the fee
charged to the value of the local privilege taxed, is not a good
reason for adjudging it arbiifrary. P. 423.
5. The subject of the Louisiana tax is the prosecution of a defined
business activity within that State, viz., the conduct of a retail

ATL. & PAC. TEA CO. v. GRQSJEAN.
412

413

Argument for Appellants.

store which is part of a chain under a single management, ownership or control; the measure of the tax is the number of units
of the chain within the State; the fact that the rate of tax for
each such unit is fixed by reference to all the units of the chain,
including those operated elsewhere, does not, in legal effect, result
in taxation of property or privileges enjoyed by the taxpayer beyond the-borders of the State. P. 424.
6. The Louisiana tax, supra, may be further upheld as taxation in
aid of a policy of the State to mitigate evils of competition as
'between single stores and chains, or a policy to neutralize disadvantages of small chains in their competition with larger ones, or
to discourage merchandising within the State by chains grown so
large as to become a menace to the general welfare. P. 425.
7. Within its police power, the State may forbid the prosecution of a
particular type of business inimical to the public welfare, or regulate such business to abate evils arising from its pursuit. p. 425.
8. Whatever a State may forbid or regujate it may permit upon
condition that a fee be paid in return for the privilege, and such
a fee may be exacted to discourage the prosecution of a business or to adjust competitive or economic inequalities. P. 426.
9. The policy a State is free to adopt with respect to the business
activities of her own citizens she may apply to the citizens of
other States who conduct the same business within her borders,
and this irrespective of whether the evils requiring regulation arise
solely from operations in the State or are in part the result of
extra-state transactions. P. 427.
10. A party subjected to a state tax only in respect of local activities
cannot have an advisory decree against a possible administration
of the taxing Act which would burden or regulate his related
activities in interstate commerce. Pp. 427, 429.
16 F. Supp. 499, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court, of three
judges, dismissing a bill to enjoin the enforcement of a tax
on chain stores. The Atlantic & Pacific Tea Company
was the original plaintiff. Other chain store operators
intervened.

Messrs. Monte M. Lemann and Robert L. Wright,
with whom Messrs. Joseph G. Gamble and J. Blanc
Monroe were on the brief, for appellants.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Appellants.

301 U. S.

The Louisiana statute taxes operations outside of the
State.
The Fourteenth Amendment precludes the State from
imposing a tax on operations outside the State. Safety
Deposit Trust Co. v. Virginia, 280 U. S. 83, 92; Provident
Savings Assn. v. Kentucky, 239 U. S. 103, 112; Louisville Ferry Co. v. Kentucky, 188 U. S. 385, 395, 396;
Delaware, L. & W. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 198 U. S.
341, 356; Union Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194,
204; New York Life Ins. Co. v. Head, 234 U. S. 149,
162, 163.
A State cannot by language or indirection accomplish
an unconstitutional purpose. Fidelity & Deposit Co. v.
Tafoya, 270 U. S.426, 434, 435; National Life Ins. Co.
v. United States, 277 U. S. 508; Missouri v. Gehner, 281
U. S. 313; Schuylkill Trust Co. v. Pennsylvania, 296
U. S. 13; Bethlehem Motors Corp. v. Flynt, 256 U. S.
421; Colgate v. Harvey, 296 U. S. 404. Distinguishing:
Maxwell v. Bugbee, 250 U. S.525 and Frick v. Pennsylvania, 268 U. S; 473.
The statute cannot be supported on the theory that
Louisiana taxes only what is in Louisiana by analogy to
allocation. Western Union v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1; Ludwig v. Western Union, 216 U. S. 146; Pullman Co. v.
Kansas, 216 U. S.56; Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. v. O'Connor, 223 U. S. 280; Looney v. Crane, 245 U. S. 178; International Paper Co. v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 135,
142; Airway Corp. v. Day, 266 U. S. 71; Cudahy Packing
Co. v. Hinkle, 278 U. S.400; Hans Rees' Sons v. North
Carolina, 283 U. S. 123. Distinguishing: Wallace v.
Hines, 253 U. S.66; Baltic Mining Co. v. Massachusetts,
231 U. S.68.
The statute increases the Louisiana tax when Louisiana operations decrease if outside operations increase.
This could never happen under an allocation statute.

ATL. & PAC. TEA CO. v. GROSJEAN.
412

415

Argument for Appellants.

Cf. Fargo v. Hart, 193 U. S. 490; Union Tank Line v.
Wright, 249 U. S. 275.
The statute places all stores everywhere in the highest applicable bracket. - If Louisiana has a right to do
this, then every State has a similar right, and although a
corporation owned only one store. in every State, that
store would be in the highest bracket everywhere.
The statute denies the equal protection of the laws to
chains operating both within and without Louisiana.
It was not designed to, and does not, protect independents against chains, but discriminates among chains.
But the State cannot consistently with the Constitution
undertake to benefit or give advantage to its citizens or
those doing business only within its borders by discriminating against those who also do business elsewhere.
Ward v. Maryland, 12 Wall. 418, 430; Colgate v. Harvey,
296 U. S. 404.
If this statute is upheld, a State may make its tax
rates applicable to income and operations within the
State depend upon factors outside the State. The result
would be to permit the State, in effect, to exclude from
the State persons or corporations operating outside the
State, and to convert the Union into a Confederation of
States. See Baldwin v. G. A. F. Seelig, Inc., 294 U. S.
511. A tax based upon size alone, as e. g. a graduated tax
upon gross sales, is arbitrary and invalid. See Stewart
Dry Goods Co. v. Lewis, 294 U. S. 550, 560.
The right of Louisiana to exclude a foreign corporation
cannot be used as a basis for taxing it upon property
that, by established principles, the State has no power
to tax. Fidelity & Deposit Co. v. Tafoya, 270 U. S. 426;
Quaker.City Cab Co. v. Pennsylvania, 277 U. S. 389.
Prohibition of size extending to operations outside the
State may properly be accomplished only by national
legislation. United States v. Bennett, 232 U. S. 299, 306.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Appellees.

301 U. S.

If the statute is valid, municipalities may adopt corresponding ordinances based on operations outside the
State, further assuring exclusion of foreign chains.
Every legitimate claim of Louisiana to lay tribute upon
operations within its borders is attained under the state
income and franchise tax laws, the 1932 Chain Store Act,
and the general license tax laws.
The invalidity of the 1934 statute will leave the 1932
statute in effect.
Messrs. Martin A. Schenck and William J. Carr filed
a brief on behalf of F. W. Woolworth Co., appellant.
Mr. Robert L. Wright also filed a brief on behalf of
Montgomery Ward & Co., Inc., appellant.
Mr. E. Leland Richardson, Assistant Attorney General
of Louisiana, with whom Messrs. Gaston L. Porterie, Attorney General, and J. C. Daspit and F. A. Blanche, Assistant Attorneys General, were on the brief, for appellees.
Act 51 of 1934 levies a license or privilege tax on the
privilege of operating retail stores in multiple form in
Louisiana, and is clearly within the authority of the
Louisiana Legislature. La. Const., 1921, Art. 10, § 8.
The statute classifies businesses according to type of
business done and the value of the privilege to do business in Louisiana; the measure of the tax is the number
of retail stores in the State; the type of.business transacted in Louisiana and the value of the privilege to do
business in Louisiana are determined by the number of
retail stores under the same general management, supervision, ownership or control; the greater the number of
retail units in a chain, the greater the many advantages
accruing to the operators of the chain, and the greater the
advantages accruing to each retail unit in the chain,
thereby determining the type of business the retail unit
or units are engaged in, and the value of the privilege of
doing business in Louisiana.

ATL. & PAC. TEA CO. v. GROSJEAN.
412

417

Opinion of the Court.

The testimony, documentary evidence and offerings in
this case include practically the same proof found in
State Board of Tax Comm'rs v. Jackson, 283 U. S. 527.
See also Liggett Co. v. Lee, 288 U. S. 517, and Fox v.
Standard Oil Co., 294 U. S. 87.
The statute involved treats all similarly situated alike.
That is all that is required by the equal protection clauses
of the Federal and State Constitutions. Ohio Oil Co. v.
Conway, 281 U. S. 146.
Under Act 51 of 1934, the rate of tax alone is affected
by the total number of retail stores in a chain. Cf. Maxwell v. Bugbee, 250 U. S. 525; Frick v. Pennsylvania,268
U. S. 473.
The State can look beyond its borders to determine true
value of properties within the State when all are part of
a system. Wallace v. Hines, 253 U. S. 66; 61 C. J., p. 694;
Union Tank Line v. Wright, 249 U. S. 275; Western
Union v. Taggart, 163 U. S. 1; Fargo v. Hart, 193 U. S.
490; Educational Films Corp. v. Ward, 282 U. S. 379;
Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107; Baltic Mining Co.
v. Massachusetts, 231 U. S. 68.
The statute should be sustained on the further ground
that all appellants are foreign corporations doing intrastate business in Louisiana, Liggett Co. v. Lee, 288 U. S.
517.
The privilege of engaging in intrastate commerce in
Louisiana in corporate form is one which the State may
confer or withhold as it sees fit. Railway Express Agency
v. Virginia, 282 U. S. 440.
In the alternative, the statute, in effect, classifies chain
operators in Louisiana as local, sectional and national.
See Liggett Co. v. Lee, supra.
Mr. JUSTIcE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This cause presents the questions whether the method
prescribed by a chain store tax act for ascertaining the
146212 --37---7

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

rate of taxation offends the Fourteenth Amendment and
the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution.
In 1932 the legislature of Louisiana adopted an act
levying an occupation or license tax upon chain stores,'
under which the exaction was fifteen dollars upon each of
two or more stores, not in excess of five; upon each store
in excess of five, but.not exceeding ten, twenty-five dollars; and the amount increased in brackets for additional
stores, the last bracket embracing stores in excess of fifty
upon each of which the tax was two hundred dollars.
By Act 51 of 19342 the earlier law was amended to lay
the tax on "persons, firms, partnerships, corporations or
associations of persons engaged in the business of operating two or more stores or mercantile establishments, one
or more of which is located in this state . . . under the
same general management, supervision, ownership or
control . . ." Section 3 provides that the tax "shall be
based on the number of stores or mercantile establishments included under the same general management,
supervision, ownership or control, whether operated in
this State or not, and shall be fixed and graded as follows
to wit: (1) Upon stores or mercantile establishments operated in this State and belonging to a chain or group
having a total of not more than ten stores, the annual
license shall be Ten ($10.00) Dollars for each such store
operated in this State." There are fifteen additional paragraphs progressively increasing the rate per store in
Louisiana of larger chains, the last fixing the rate for a
store belonging to a chain of more than five hundred at
$550.
The Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Company, an Arizona corporation, owning, operating or controlling 15,082
stores in the United States, Canada, and elsewhere, 106
of which are in Louisiana, filed its bill in the District
1 No.

19 of 1932; Acts of Louisiana, 1932, p. 125.
2Acts of Louisiana 1934, p. 251.

ATL. & PAC. TEA CO. v. GROSJEAN.
412

419

Opinion of the Court.

Court to restrain the appellees, state officers, from enforcing the statute. Other corporations operating chains,
some units of which are located in Louisiana, intervened
as plaintiffs. A temporary restraining order issued, the
appellees answered the bil', and the case was heard upon
pleadings and proofs by a specially constituted court of
three judges, which upheld the statute and dismissed the
bill.3
The constitutional infirmity of the Act is said to consist in arbitrary discrimination in favor of local as against
national chains, in the attempt to tax property and activities which are beyond the state's jurisdiction, and in
burdening interstate commerce. We hold the legislation
impregnable to attack on these grounds.
First. The exaction is an occupation or license tax.
The subject is the conduct of a business within Louisiana.
Without contravening the equal protection clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment a state may separately classify
for taxation the conduct of a chain store,' and may increase the rate in proportion to the increase in the num
ber of stores within the state, since the opportunities and
powers of a chain store operator become greater with the
growth of the number of units maintained. 5 The appellants assert that in adjusting the rate for a chain store in
Louisiana the legislature may not take into account the
size of the chain to which the store belongs, by counting
the total number of its units wherever located. So to do,
it is claimed, is arbitrarily to discriminate against sectional or national chains in favor of intrastate chains.
The District Court found that the testimony offered by
the State was similar to that in Tax Commissioners v.
Jackson, supra; established the difference in type of opera3 16 F. Supp. 499.
4 Tax Commissioners v. Jackson, 283 U. S. 527; Liggett Co. v. Lee,
288 U. S. 517.
5 Fox v. Standard Oil Co., 294 U. S. 87, 100.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

tion between the operator of one store and the operator of
many, and the variance in advantage and mode of operation with the number of units in the chain. In addition,
the court found that all the stores of a retail chain contribute to the central purchasing power of the chain
irrespective of state lines and location of stores, and increase the per unit multiple advantage enjoyed by the
operator of the system; that the greater the number of
units the greater the purchasing power of the chain, the
greater the rebates and allowances, the greater the advantages in advertising, the greater the capital employed,
the greater the social and economic consequences, and the
lower the cost of distribution and overhead. "In fine, the
record in this case shows the contribution to the advantages made by each unit in the chain, and the per unit
advantage made possible by the whole system, and in that
respect only does it differ materially from the proof which
was before the court in the Jackson case." These findings
are assigned as error, but they have substantial support in
the record and we therefore accept them.
If the competitive advantages of a chain increase with
the number of its component links, it is hard to see how
these advantages cease at the state boundary. Under the
findings a store belonging to a chain of one hundred, all
located in Louisiana, has not the same competitive advantages as one of one hundred Louisiana stores belonging
to a national chain of one thousand. The appellants lean
heavily on the findings of the court respecting the relative
business in New Orleans of the Great Atlantic and Pacific
Company and the H. G. Hill Stores, Inc., a Louisiana corporation. The court found that the operations of the two
are generally of the same character; the former conducts
one hundred and six stores in the state, sixty-.two of which
are in the city of New Orleans; the latter ninety-two in
the state, of which eighty-seven are in the city. Each
concern conducts grocery and meat stores with substan-

ATL. & PAC. TEA CO. v. GROSJEAN.
412

421

Opinion of the Court.

tially the same line of merchandise and their sales methods are practically the same. The gross volume of sales
of Hill in New Orleans is much greater; it has more stores,
and does more business per store in that city than the
Atlantic and Pacific. The court further found, however,
that the total purchasing power of the Atlantic and
Pacific is much greater than that of Hill; that Atlantic
and Pacific has field offices located at primary markets,
which are in charge of specialists and supervised by central purchasing offices in New York, and maintains divisional warehouses throughout the country, whereas the
operations of Hill are confined to Louisiana, and chiefly
to New Orleans. Under the statute Hill is taxable at the
rate of $30 per store as against $550 assessable against
Atlantic and Pacific. These facts are said to demonstrate
that the Act denies the appellant and other intervenors
the equal protection of the laws by arbitrarily discriminating against national in favor of local chains. But the
contention is answered not only by the specific finding
respecting the difference between the two companies'
methods but by the general finding that addition of units
to a chain increases the competitive advantage of each
store in the chain.
The court's findings are supported by evidence bearing
upon a variety of advantages enjoyed by large chains
which are unavailable to smaller chains. One striking
illustration is furnished by the uncontradicted proof that
the Atlantic and Pacific Company received, in the year
1934, from its vendors, secret rebates, allowances, and
brokerage fees amounting to $8,105,000 which were demanded by the company as a condition of purchasing
from the vendors in question. The leverage which accomplished this was the enormous purchasing power of the
company. The amount thus obtained equals-$530 for
each of the Atlantic and Pacific Company's stores or
nearly the amount of the tax exacted by the statute. The

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

appellants insist that these facts are not significant because there is testimony that, in the drug trade, quantity
discounts usually do not increase after a certain volume
of purchases is reached, but the testimony does not
specify the point where quantity discounts cease to grow.
The record discloses what would be plain enough without
evidence, that generally volume of purchasing power
spells lower prices, special terms, and other advantages.
It is unnecessary to discuss the evidence supporting the
findings with respect to other facilities enjoyed only, or
in increased measure, by the larger chains.
The appellants urge that the Act arbitrarily discriminates in favor of local chains because it is inconceivable
that a chain operating wholly within the state would have
five hundred stores, not to mention upwards of fifteen
thousand, the number maintained by the Atlantic and
Pacific. The argument is inconsistent with the finding
that additional units, wherever situate, increase the advantages and economic effects of the chain as a whole and
of each unit; and ignores the possibility that a chain-*
store company of national scope might well be incorporated in Louisiana, whose stores in that state would
be rated for taxation according to its total stores within
and without the state.
Other instances of the working of the Act are cited to
show that it arbitrarily discriminates against national
chains and in favor of local. ones solely because they are
such. Thus, it is said, if a national chain owning 501
stores in other states, establishes a single store in a
Louisiana city where there is a local chain of two or three
like establishments, the national concern must pay a
license of $550 for its one store while the stores of the
local chain are taxed but $10 each. The appellees retort
that since the earlier law imposed a tax of $15 on each
store in the local chain and none upon the one Louisiana
stote of the national chain it was more vulnerable to the

ATL. & PAC. TEA CO. v. GROSJEAN.
412

423

Opinion of 'the Court.

charge of arbitrariness than the Act under review. Whatever the pertinence of the reply, the facts found respecting the advantages of a larger chain as compared with a
smaller justify as not unreasonable or arbitrary the imposition of a higher license tax on the units of the former
which are maintained within the state. Even one unit
of such a national chain located in Louisiana enjoys competitive advantages over the stores of the local proprietor
consequent upon its relation to the far-flung activities
and facilities of the chain.
The act under review is to be distinguished from the
Florida statute considered in Liggett Co. v. Lee, supra,
which increased the tax if the chain happened to have
stores in two counties of the state rather than in one.
The increase of rate was held arbitrary because it was
unrelated to the size or character of the chain and was
conditioned solely upon the location of one or more of
its units. The Louisiana act adopts no such basis of classification. A small chain of three stores, one of which is
in Louisiana and two in Mississippi, will pay exactly the
same tax as a similar organization having the same number of stores all in Louisiana. A concern having ninetytwo stores scattered over ten states, seven of which are in
Louisiana, will pay exactly the same tax per Louisiana
store as the H. G. Hill Stores, Inc., all of whose ninety-two
stores are in Louisiana. Thus it appears that the classification is not based upon the location of the stores within
or without the state but upon the type of business conducted, the scale of that business, its accompanying competitive advantages and econoific results.
Finally, since the court below found that the sales and
earnings of the individual stores of a chain differ in'various portions of the country and those of the Louisiana
stores have been below the average for all stores of many
of the appellants, the claim is that the statute, by taking
into account all units indiscriminately in fixing the rate,

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

arbitrarily disregards the value of the local privilege for
which the license fee is charged. We cannot say that
classification of chains according to the number of units
must be condemned because another method more nicely
adjusted to represent the differences in earning power of
the individual stores might have been chosen, for the legislature is not required to make meticulous adjustments
in an effort to avoid incidental hardships.' It is enough
that the classification has reasonable relation to the differences in the practices of small and large chains. The
statute bears equally upon all who fall into the same class,
and this satisfies the guaranty of equal protection.'
Second. The appellants contend the Act deprives them
of property without due process of law because the tax
is imposed, at least in part, upon things which are beyond
the jurisdiction of Louisiana. The state may not tax real
property or tangible personal property lying outside her
borders; 8 nor may she lay an excise or privilege tax upon
the exercise or enjoyment of a right or privilege in another
state derived from the laws of that state and therein exercised and enjoyed.' But, as we have seen, the subject
of the tax in question is the prosecution of a defined business activity within the State of Louisiana,-the conduct
of a retail store which is a part of a chain under a single
management, ow-nership or control,-a legitimate subject
of a license or occupation tax. The measure of the exaction is the number of units of the chain within the
Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61, 78;
Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. v. Conley, 230 U. S. 513, 522; Continental
Baking Co. v. Woodring, 2S6 U. S. 352, 371; Fox r. Standard Oil Co.,
supra, 101, 102.
7 Tax Commissioners v. Jackson, supra, p. 542; Fox v. Standard
Oil Co., supra, 101.
8 Louisville & J. Ferry Co. v. Kentucky, 188 U. S. 385; Delaware
L. & W. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 198 U. S. 341; Union Refrigerator
Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194.
9
Frick v. Pennsylvania, 268 U. S. 473.
0 Compare

ATL. & PAC. TEA CO. v. GROSJEAN.
412

425

Opinion of the Court.

state,-a measure sanctioned by our decisions. The rate
of tax for each such unit is fixed by reference to the size
of the entire chain. In legal contemplation the state does
not lay a tax upon property lying beyond her borders nor
does she tax any privilege exercised and enjoyed by the
taxpayer in other states. The law rates the privilege
enjoyed in Louisiana according to the nature and extent
of that privilege in the light of the advantages, the capacity, and the competitive ability of the chain's stores in
Louisiana considered not by themselves, as if they constituted the whole organization, but in their setting as integral parts of a much larger organization. We cannot
hold that this privilege is unaffected by the status of the
Louisiana stores as members of such a chain or that recognition of the advantages and capacities enjoyed by them
as a result of that membership is forbidden in classifying
them for progressive increase of rate. Such classification
is not in legal effect the taxation of property or privileges
possessed or enjoyed by the taxpayer beyond the borders
of the state.
Maxwell v. Bugbee, 250 U. S. 525, goes far to sustain
the validity of the Act."° The exaction in the present case
is even less open to the accusation of extra-territoriality
than the one there under consideration, because here it
cannot be claimed, as it was there, that not alone the-rate,
but to some extent, the measure of the tax, is affected
by the enjoyment of extra-state privileges.
Our decision need not, however, rest on conceptions of
subject, measure and rate of tax. Much broader considerations touching the state's internal policy of police
sustain the exaction. The tax is laid solely upon intrastate commerce." In the exercise of its police power
10 See the comment on Maxwell v. Bugbee in Frick v. Pennsylvania,
268 U. S. at p. 495.
"Nathan v. Louisiana, 8 How. 73, 80-81; Rast v. Van Deman &
Lewis Co., 240 U. S. 342, 360.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

the state may forbid, as inimical to the public welfare,
the prosecution of a particular type of business,' - or
regulate a business in such manner as to abate evils
deemed to arise from its pursuit." Whatever a state
may forbid or regulate it may permit upon condition
that a fee be paid in return for the privilege,' 4 and such
a fee may be exacted to discourage the prosecution of a
business or to adjust competitive or economic inequalities. 1 Taxation may be made the implement of the
exercise of the state's police power; "Gand proper and
reasonable discrimination between classes to promote fair
competitive conditions and to equalize economic advantages is therefore lawful."
If, in the interest of the people of the state, the legislature deemed it necessary either to mitigate evils of com"2License Cases, 5 How. 504; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623,
662-663; Williams v. Arkansas, 217 U. S. 79; Central Lumber Go. v.
South Dakota, 226 U. S. 157, 162.
" Ozan Lumber Co. v. Union County Bank, 207 U. S. 251; Engel
v. O'Alalley, 219 U. S. 128, 137.
1I4Viggins Ferry Co. v. East St. Louis, 107 U. S. 365, 373, 374-376.
I"American Sugar Refining Co. v. Louisiana, 179 U. S. 89, 92-95;
Reymann Brewing Co. v. Brister, 179 U. S. 445, 453; Williams v.
Fears, 179 U. S. 270, 276; TV. TV. Cargill Co. v.Minnesota, 180 U. S.
452, 469; McCray v. United States, 195 U. 8. 27, 60; Brown-Forman
Co. v. Kentucky, 217 U. S. 563, 573; Quong Wing v. Kirkendall, 223
U. S. 59, 62; Brazee v. Michigan, 241 U. S. 340, 342; Alaska Fish Co.
v. Smith, 255 U. S. 44; Liberty iarehouse Company v. Tobacco
Growers Assn., 276 U. S. 71, 96; Sproles v.Binford, 286 U. S. 374.
394; Magnano Co. v. Hamilton, 292 U. S.40, 43, 44; Fox v. Standard Oil Co., 294 U. S. 87, 100; Sonzinsky v. United States, 300 U. S.
506.
"'Gundling v. Chicago, 177 U. S. 183, 188, 189; Rast v, Van
Deman & Lewis Co., supra, 368; Compatia General v. Collector, 275
U. S.87, 95, 96; Sonzinsky v. United States, supra.
17 Bradley v. Richmond, 227 U. S. 477, 480, 484; Hammond Packing Co. v. Montana, 233 U. S.331, 333-334; Rast v. Van Deman &
Lewis Co., supra; p. 368; Tanner v. Little, 240 U. S. 369, 382-383;
St. Louis Poster Advertising Co. v. St. Louis, 249 U. S. 269, 274.

ATL. & PAC. TEA CO. v. GROSJEAN.
412

427

Opinion of the Court.

petition as between single stores and chains or to neutralize disadvantages of small chains in their competition
with larger ones, or to discourage merchandising -within
the state by chains grown so large as to become a menace
to the general welfare, it was at liberty to regulate the
matter directly or to resort to the type of taxation evidenced by the Act of 1934 as a means of regulation. The
appellants, by incorporating in some other state, or by
spreading their business and activities over other states,
cannot set at naught the public policy of Louisiana. The
claim is, essentially, that even if local evils flow from
the appellant's methods the state cannot control those
evils because its power is limited to conditions created
by the members of the chain found within the state. The
conclusion is that the state must treat these stores as if
they were something different from what they really are,
since to do otherwise would be to reach beyond the
borders of Louisiana for the measure of the tax. The
argument answers itself. The policy Louisiana is free
to adopt with respect to the business activities of her
own citizens she may apply to the citizens of other states
who conduct the same business within her borders, and
this irrespective of whether the evils requiring regulation
arise solely from operations in Louisiana or are in part
the result of extra-state transactions. It is not a denial
of due process to adjust such license taxes as are here
involved to meet the local evil resulting from business
practices and superior economic power even though those
advantages and that power are largely due to the fact
that the taxpayer does business not only in Louisiana
but in other states.
Third. Montgomery Ward & Company, one of the appellants, filed a bill of intervention. In addition to the
objections already considered it contends that, as applied
to its business, the act of 1934 constitutes an interference
with and a regulation of interstate commerce forbidden
by Art. I, § 8 of the Constitution. The allegation is that

428

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

this appellant owns and operates five stores in Louisiana
and four hundred and eighty-six others spread over fortyfive states; owns and operates nine mail order houses
located in states other than Louisiana and nineteen socalled order stations located at. various points outside
Louisiana, the mail order houses and order stations all
being exclusively engaged in interstate commerce The
order stations are installed in rented spaces with one
regular employe at each and with a stock of samples, the
only business transacted in them being the taking of
orders which are transmitted to, and filled by, the mail
order houses. With respect to the operation of the act
the bill states: "Intervenor alleges that while the present
administrative interpretation of said Act 51 of the Louisiana Legislature of 1934 apparently limits the operation
of said Act to the intervenor's retail stores, the words
'mercantile establishments' used in said Act apparently
include the aforesaid mail order houses and order stations
owned and operated by the intervenor. Said Act does
not by its terms exclude from its operation said establishments engaged in interstate commerce, and, therefore,
violates the Commerce Clause of the United States Constitution ..
The trial court found the facts as follows:
"Montgomery Ward & Company, an Illinois corporation, operates 9 mail order establishments engaged in
filling orders received from points in the United States
and foreign countries through the mail. None of these
mail order establishments are situated in Louisiana. The
Company also has 19 mail order offices, none of which are
situated in Louisiana; 17 Class A department stores car-.
rying a complete line of general merchandise, none of
which are situated in Louisiana; 456 Class B retail stores
of limited size and carrying a limited line of merchandise,
of which 5 are located in Louisiana; and 16 Class C stores

ATL. & PAC. TEA CO. v. GROSJEAN.
412

429

Opinion of the Court.

devoted exclusively to the sale of hardware, household
appliances, automobile tires and tubes, of which none are
located in Louisiana. The 5 Louisiana Class B stores
take orders to be filled by mail from the Company's mail
order establishment located at Forth Worth, in addition
to selling merchandise at retail at its place of business to
the public."
As a conclusion of law the court held "The claim [of
the intervenor] does not merit serious consideration. The
statute by its express terms applies only 'where goods,
wares, merchandise or commodities of every description
whatsoever are sold or offered for sale at retail.' "
Error is assigned to the District Court's conclusion and
the appellant insists that the statute is bad because it imposes a single and indivisible tax for the privilege of conducting a business both interstate and intrastate, partly
measured by interstate operations wholly extrastate.
As respects the regulation of interstate commerce the
intervenor's bill is premature and without equity. The
statute was approved July 12, 1934, and became effective
for the calendar year 1935 and subsequent years. February 27, 1935, both the bill of the Great Atlantic & Pacific
Tea Company and Montgomery Ward & Company's intervening bill were filed. The record discloses no rules or
regulations promulgated by the appellee Supervisor of
Public Accounts and no ruling by any responsible state
official as to which of Montgomery Ward & Company's
establishments are to be included in reckoning the total
of its retail stores. For all that appears neither its mail
order houses, nor its order stations, nor its department
stores, will be included in the computation.
It is manifest that Montgomery Ward & Company cannot upon mere supposition that the Act will be unconstitutionally construed and applied in respect of its five
stores in Louisiana obtain an advisory decree that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
SUTHERLAND,

J., dissenting.

301 U. S.

Act must not be so administered as to burden or regulate
interstate commerce."
The judgment of the District Court is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER and MR. JUSTICE STONE
took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR.

JUSTICE SUTHERLAND,

dissenting.

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE BUTLER and I
are of opinion that the statute here involved is invalid as
constituting a denial of the equal protection of the laws
and an attempted exertion of the legislative power of the
state with respect to properties and businesses located
beyond its teritorial borders.
In Tax Commissioners v. Jackson, 283 U. S. 527, this
court sustained the validity of an Indiana statute imposing a chain-store tax graduated according to the number of stores under the same general management. But
there, the amount of the tax in respect of each store was
graduated according to the whole number of stores within the State. Here, the amount of the tax is not limited by
the number of stores operated within the state, but is
increased by including stores operated in other states and
foreign countries. If, for example, the owner of a single
store in Louisiana has fewer than ten stores outside the
state, he pays a tax of $10; but if he operates as many as
ten stores in other states br in Canada, he is required to
pay upon his store in Louisiana $15 annually. And as the
stores outside the state further increase in number, the
tax upon the single store in Louisiana rises by successive
steps until it reaches, in the highest bracket, where the

Compare Hodge Co. v. Cincinnati, 284 U. S. 335, 338; Continental Baking Co. v. Woodring, 286 U. S. 352, 369; Ashwander v. Tennessee Valley Authority, 297 U. S. 288, 324.

ATL. & PAC. TEA CO. v. GROSJEAN.
412

SUTHERLAND,

431

J., dissenting.

stores outside exceed 500 in number, the sum of $550 upon
the single Louisiana store.
We thought the classification in the Jackson case, although confined to stores within the state, was so arbitrary as to render the tax invalid under the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, and, together
with MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, who takes no part in
this case, set forth our views at length in a dissenting
opinion. 283 U. S. 543 et seq. We rest upon what was
there said, without repeating it, not for the purpose of
again challenging the decision in the Jackson case, but
because what we said applies more plainly to the variant
facts of the case now under consideration. We thought
then that the Jackson case was wrongly decided, but, accepting it as authoritative, it seems to us certain that it
goes to the extreme verge of the law, and, for the reasons
given in our dissenting opinion, equally certain that the
present decision goes far beyond the verge. We add a
few words in support of that view.
The Indiana law effected a discrimination between two
classes-namely, operators of chain stores and operators
of independent stores within the boundaries of the state,
without reference to any stores outside. The Louisiana
law effects a discrimination between two members of the
same class-namely, chain-store operators within the
state, where the only difference between them is that
one also operates stores in other states and in Canada,
while the other does not. Thus, for illustration, if A
operates eleven stores in Louisiana, doing a business of
$10,000,000 per year, and has none outside, he pays $15
for each store, or a total of $165, while if B operates
eleven stores in Louisiana, and happens to have 490
stores distributed among the remaining 47 states-of the
Union and foreign countries, doing a total business of
$5,000,000 per year, he is compelled to pay $550 upon

432

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
SUTHERLAND,

J., dissentin&

301 U. S.

each of his eleven stores, or a total of $6,050-36 times
the amount of the tax paid by A. This enormous difference is based upon a state of affairs wholly external to
the State of Louisiana, the effect of which upon the
Louisiana business is a matter of bald conjecture, varying
widely, as it must, with the localities in which the foreign
stores are to be found and the local circumstances by
which their operations are affected.
Moreover, if the Louisiana statute be valid, other
states in the Union may pass similar acts; and it is not
improbable that they will. And if they do so, a remarkable situation will be brought about. Let us suppose, for
example, that ten additional states, ranging from Maine
to California, adopt the Louisiana form of legislation. In
each of the states, including Louisiana, a given operator
has ten stores, making 110 in all. In that case he will
pay in each state a tax based not upon the operation of
ten stores, but on the operation of 110. Instead, therefore, of paying in each state $100 upon the basis of $10
for each of the ten stores, he will pay $500 upon the basis
of $50 for each of the ten stores. If he should then put
into operation sixteen additional stores, let us say in
Canada or Norway, he would immediately bring himself
into the bracket where the tax upon each store is fixed at
$100-thus increasing his total taxation in the eleven
states from $5,500 to $11,000, in virtue of these comparatively small operations in a foreign country, the effect of
which, if any, in respect of competitive advantages in any
one of the eleven states could hardly be described otherwise than as purely speculative.
The exattion here involved is not a tax upon Louisiana
property or business, but is essentially a penalty imposed
upon an operator of business wholly beyond the reach of
the law of that state. We are not able to concede that it
lies within the province of one state to thus indirectly

ATL. & PAC. TEA CO. v. GROSJEAN.
412

SUTi'iEILAND,

433

J., dissenting.

penalize a method of doing business in another state,
which it may be the policy of the latter to permit or, in(teed, encourage. Compare Baldwin v,G. A. F. Seelig,
294 U. S. 511, 521-524. The foregoing illustrations, and
others which might be supplied, in our opinion expose the
arbitrary character of the classification and the consequent invalidity of the exaction imposed in virtue of it.
The sole fact that a Louisiana operator has opened additional stores in other states or in Canada or Normay,
affords, we think, no valid basis for imposing upon him
an enorlnously-increased tax from which his competitors,
similarly circumstanced iii all other respects, are exempt.
The claim that thereby the balance of competitive advantage has been disturbed, is so fanciful as to furnish no
-basis for such legislation grounded in any policy or object
of state taxation. The court below thought that to consider the number of stores outside the state was competent for the purpose of determining the value of the privilege of operating each store within the state. But the
fallacy of that view as applied to the present case is
demonstrated by the facts as found by that courtnamely, that operations of chain stores "vary greatly
from section to section and from state to state because of
differences in local conditions, economic and otherwise,
freight rates added to cost, remoteness from headquarters
and executive management, increase in difficulty of supervision, local competition and other factors. Conditions
as to sales and profits vary greatly in all classes of stores
according to the section of the country in which they are
located." An attempt to fix the extent of the competitive
advantage which will inure in favor of a business in
Louisiana or the value of the privilege of operating it
upon a basis so shifting and uncertain, seems to us an
utterly futile undertaking. It is nothing more than an
effort to reach a conclusion upon an assumed major
premise, where the minor premise is unknown.
146212*--

28

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
SUTHERLAND,

J., dissenting.

301 U. S.

In Stewart Dry Goods Co. v. Lewis, 294 U. S. 550, this
court held invalid a state act imposing a graduated tax
measured by the amount of gross sales. We held that it
could not be sustained as an excise on the privilege of
merchandising, because there was no reasonable relation
between the amount of the tax and the value of the privilege, and no such relation between gross sales and
net profits as would justify the classification. The tax
was denounced (p. 557) as being "whimsical and arbitrary, as much so as would be a tax on tangible personal
property, say cattle, stepped up in rate on each additional
animal owned by the taxpayer, or a tax on land similarly
graduated according to the number of parcels owned."
We said (pp. 558-559) "that the gross sales of a merchant
do not bear a constant relation to his net profits; that net
profits vary from year to year in the same enterprise;
that diverse kinds of merchandise yield differing ratios
of profit; and that gross and net profits vary with the
-character of the business as well as its volume." It appeared from the testimony that great variations existed
within each class selected for comparison; that in some
classes, representing a greater arpount of sales, there was
a smaller net profit than in others havingless aggregate
sales. To the contention that the tax was a rough and
ready method of taxing gains, less complicated and more
conveiiient of administration than an income tax we
answered (p. 560), "The argument is in essence that it is
difficult to be just, and easy to be arbitrary. If the Commonwealth desires to tax incomes it must take the
trouble equitably to distribute the burden of the impost."
These observations apply to the case in hand; for although the taxes imposed by the statutes involved are
different, the vices are the same.

