OLD COLONY CO. v. COMM'R.
Syllabus.

358

dent's authority over Indian affairs is not broad enough
to warrant a correction of the mistake by an Executive
Order." But, this aside, the appellants are without right
to recover in respect of the lands which were the subject
of the mistake. Save for it the lands would have been
reserved, not included in the cession. Therefore, the ap-pellants' interest in them through the cession and trust
was colorable only, and in an appropriate proceeding,
brought with the consent of the United States, the mistake could and doubtless would have been corrected.
So, in no admissible view of the Executive Order can it
be said to have worked any real injury to the appellants.
6. So much of the appellants' claim as is grounded on
what was done by and under the act of February 20, 1904,
is disposed of adversely to them by what already has been
said respecting the title to the lands reservbd from the
cession of 1889.
It results that the judgment must. stand.
Judgment affirmed.
OLD COLONY TRUST CO. v. COMMISSIONER OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 703.

Argued April 29, 30, 1937.-Decided May 17, 1937.

1. In the computation of the net income of a trust, § 162 of the
Revenue Act of 1928 allows deduction of any part of the gross income, without limitation, which "pursuant to" the terms of the
deed creating the trust is during the tax year paid to charities,
etc. Held that payments are "pursuant to" the deed when authorized, though not imperatively directed, by it. P. 383.
2. "Ptirsuant to" is defined. P. 383.
13 Rev. Stats. §§ 463, 465; West v. Hitchcock, 205 U. S.80, 84-85;
Williams v. United States, 138 U. S.514, 524; Knight v. U. S. Land
Assn., 142 U. S.161, 177, et seq.; United States v. -Mid West Oil Co.,
236 U. S.459, 469, et seq.

380

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Cpurt.

301 U. S.

3. In order that deduction may be allowed, the trust need not show
affirmatively that charitable contributions from gross income were
actually paid out of income of the year in which they were made.
P. 384.
4. It is the pol.icy of Congress to encourage charitable contributions.
P. 384.
87 F. (2d) 131, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 300 U. S. 650, to review a judgment reversing, upon appeal, a decision (33 B. T. A. 311) which had
in part sustained, and in part overruled, a deficiency
income tax assessment.

Mr. Harold S. Davis for petitioner.
Mr. A. F. Prescott, with whom Solicitor General Reed,
Assistant Attorney General Morris, and Messrs. Sewall
Key, J. Louis Monarch, and F. E. Youngman were on the
brief, for respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Under trust deed of July 19, 1922, the Old Colony Trust
Company came into possession of valuable income producing property from which to pay certain sums and
satisfy specified annuities. The deed continues:
"13. I authorize my said trustees to.pay to charities as
hereinafter described such sums ag in their judgment may
be paid without jeopardizing the annuities herein provided for, whenever for a period of one year the trust
fund held by them as then invested shall have yielded a
net income equal to twice the amount of the annuities
which they are then required to pay, and upon the death
of the survivor of those persons, who unoer the terms of
this instrument are to receive annual incomes under the
trust hereby created, I direct my said trustees to distribute
the rest and residue remaining in their hands among corporations and trustees organized, operating and holding
exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific, literary or
educational purposes, including the encouragement of art

OLD COLONY CO. v. COMM'R.
379

381

Opinion of the Court.

and the prevention of cruelty to children or animals, the
sum paid over by said trustees to such corporations or
boards of trustees t6 be held by such corporations and
boards of trustees in trust, and the income thereof to be
expended for the general purposes for which such corporations and boards of trustees are organized, and I request
that said funds be designated by. each corporation or
board of trustees as the Henry Clay Jackson Fund."
Each year after 1923 the estate's income was more than
twice the amount necessary for the annuities. The
trustee has kept separate principal and income accounts.
From 1925 to 1933 all annuities were duly paid and considerable sums went to,charities; none of these payments
was' charged to the principal ^account. Tax returns have
been based upon actual receipts and disbursements.
January 1, 1931, the income account showed unexpended balance of $187,999.43. During that year the income received amounted -to $164,339.39; the trustee expended and charged against income account $212,862.80,
of which $190,000.00 went to charities. The 1931 tax
return claimed deductions for charity payments up to the
amount of the year's income. The Commissioner disallowed this because "it is not disclosed that payments
were made out of income of the taxable year to the
charities nor that any portion of the income was credited
to any charity."
The Board of Tax Appeals held the trustee must affirmatively prove the payments in question were from income received during 1931; also, that except as-to a small
sum, it had not sustained the necessary burden of proof.
The Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that none of the
contributions was deductible because not imperatively
directed by the trust deed. It took the view that as the
trustee exercised discretion as to payment they were not
made "pursuant to the terms of the . . . deed creating
the trust." Accordingly, it approved the Commissiorer's
assessment and remanded the cause to the Board.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

The matter is here by certiorari. Annuity payments
are not now in controversy. Two questions are presented
and both must be answered in the negative.
I. Under § 162, Revenue Art, 1928, 45 Stat. 838, copied
in the margin, is it necessary that the will or deed creating a trust definitely direct the charitable contributions
which are claimed as deductions? 1
Section 23n of the 1928 Act which authorizes certain
deductions for charitable contributions by individuals
does not confine them to payments actually made from
income, but does limit their amount to 15% of the net
received during the year.' In lieu of these deductions,
'Revenue Act, 1928, § 162, 45 Stat. 838.
"SEC. 162. Net Income.
"The net income of the estate or trust shall be computed in the same
manner and on the same basis as in the case of an individual, except
that"(a) There shall be allowed as a deduction (in lieu of the deduction
for charitable, etc., contributions authorized by section 23 (n)) any
part of the gross income, without limitation, which pursuant to the
terms of the will or deed creating the trust, is during the taxable year
paid or permanently set aside for the purposes and in the manner
specified in section 23 (n), or is to be used exclusively for religious,
charitable, scientific, literary, or educational purposes, or for the prevention of cruelty to children or animals, or for the establishment,
acquisition, maintenance or operation of a public cemetery not operated for profit; . . . (b) and (c)."
2 Revenue Act, 1928, § 23, 45 Stat. 799.
"SEC. 23. Deductions from Gross Income.
In computing net income there shall be allowed as deductions: . . .
(a), (b), etc.
(n) Charitable and other contributions.-In the case of an individtqal,, contributions or gifts made within the taxable year to or for
the use of:
(1) the United States, any State, Territory, or any political subdivision thereof, or the District of Columbia, for exclusively public
purposes;
(2) any corporation, or trust, or community chest, fund, or foun:
dation, organized and operated exclusively for religious, charitable,

OLD COLONY CO. v. COMM'R.
379

383

Opinion of the Court.

§ 162a permits trust estates to deduct charitable contributions to the full extent of gross income when made pursuant to the trust deed.
We are asked to hold that the words "pursuant to"
mean directed or definitely enjoined. And this notwithstanding the admission that Congress intended to encourage charitable contributions by relieving them from
taxation. Lederer v. Stockton, 260 U. S. 3; United
States v. Provident Trust Co., 291 U. S. 272, 285.
"Pursuant to" is defined as "acting or done in consequence or in prosecution (of anything) ; hence, agreeable;
conformable; following; according." I
The words of the statute are plain and should be accorded their usual significance in the absence of some
dominant reason to the contrary. We find nothing in
the regulations or practice of the Treasury Department
scientific, literary, or educational purposes, or for the prevention of
cruelty to children or animals, no part of the net earnings of which
inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual;
(3) the special fund for vocational rehabilitation authorized by
section 7 of the Vocational Rehabilitation Act;
(4) posts or organizations of war veterans, or auxiliary units or
societies of any such posts or organizations, if such posts, organizations, units, or societies are organized in the United States or any of
its possessions, and if no part of their net earnings inures to the benefit
of any private shareholder or individual; or
(5) a fraternal society, order, or association, operating under the
lodge system, but only if such contributions or gifts are to be used
exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific, literary, or educational
purposes, or for the prevention of cruelty to children or animals;
to an amount which in all the above cases combined does not exceed
15 per centum of' the taxpayer's net income as computed without the
benefit of this subsection. Such contributions or gifts shall be allowable as deductions only if verified under rules and regulations
prescribed by the Commissioner, with the approval of the Secretary.
(For unlimited deduction if contributions and gifts exceed 90 per
centum of the net income, see section 120.)"
3 Webster's New International Dictionary, Unabridged, 2nd ed.,
1935.

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

or in the general purpose of the statute which requires
the narrow meaning advocated by respondent. Neither
the Commissioner nor the Board of Tax Appeals accepted
or mentioned with favor the interpretation which his
counsel now advance; and this is hardly compatible with
the theory of controlling rulings or practice by the
Bureau.
The questioned donations were made by the petitioners in pursuance of the trust deed.
II. In order that they may be allowed as deductions
is it necessary affirmatively to show that charitable contributions by a trust estate were actually paid out of
income received during the year in which they were
made?
Section 23n limits deductible contributions to 15% of
net income. Section 162a permits them to the full extent
of gross income. This language should be construed
with the view of carrying out the purpose of Congressevidently the encouragement of donations by trust
estates. There are no words limiting these to something
actually paid from the year's income. And so to interpret the Act could seriously interfere with the beneficent
purpose. One creating a trust might be unwilling to
bind it absolutely to pay something to charity but would
authorize his trustee so to do after considering then
existing circumstances.
Capital and income accounts in the conduct of the
business of estates are well understood. Congress sought
to encourage donations-out of gross income, and we find
no reason for saying that it intended to limit the exemption to sums which the trust could show were actually
paid out of receipts during a particular tax year. The
design was to forego some possible revenue in order to
promote aid to charity. Here the trustee responded to
an implied invitation and the estate ought not to be
burdened in consequence.

LEWIS & CO. v. COMM'R.

385

Opinion of the Court.

379

The judgment of the court below must be reversed and
the cause returned there for further proceedings in harmony with this opinion.
Reversed.

A. A. LEWIS & CO.

ET AL. v. COMMISSIONER OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 743.

Argued April 30, 1937.-Decided May 17, 1937.

A landowner made a declaration placing title in a trustee for the
benefit of herself and an agent empowered by her to subdivide
and sell the land, whose compensation was to be a fixed percentage
of payments made by purchasers. The function of the trustee
was to hold the title, execute contracts and conveyances at the
direction of the agent, and to make collections. Held that the
trust was not an "association" within the meaning of § 701 (a) (2)
of the Revenue Act of 1928, and therefore not taxable as a
corporation. Pp. 386, 389.
87 F. (2d) 1000, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 300 U. S.651, to review the reversal of a
decision of the Board of Tax Appeals disapproving an
income tax deficiency assessment.

Mr. Franz W. Castle, with whom Messrs. Emmett J.
McCarthy, Howard R. Brintlinger, and Robert F. Carey,
were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Andrew D. Sharpe, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, Assistant Attorney General Morris, and Messrs.
Sewall Key and Ellis N. Slack were on the brief, for
.respondent.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of

the Court.
On January 3,1934, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue assessed a deficiency of income taxes for the year
146212°-37-25

