TOWNSEND v. YEOMANS.
Syllabus.

435

content that may vary with the setting. Cf. Surace v.
Danna, 248 N. Y. 18, 21; 161 N. E. 315; Towne v. Eisner,
245 U. S. 418, 425; InternationalStevedoring Co. v. Haverty, 272 U. S. 50. In the setting of this enterprise, the
totality of its circumstances, the roots of the respondent's
income go down into the soil.
4. Cases in other courts relied upon by the petitioner
as excluding the respondent from the category of farmers
are consistent for the most part with the ruling now made
when the opinions are read with due relation to the' facts.
Either the debtor posing as a farmer was engaged at
the same time in some other line of business or the plots
in cultivation were too small to make a farm. Swift v.
Mobley, 28 F. (2d) 610; In re Spengler, 238 Fed. 862;
In re McMurray, 8 F. Supp. 449; In re Weis, 10 F. Supp.
227.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
TOWNSEND ET AL. V. YEOMANS, ATTORNEY
GENERAL OF GEORGIA, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

No. 781.

Argued May 3, 4, 1937.-Decided May 24, 1937.

1. The business of tobacco warehouses in Georgia is affected with
a public interest and their charges to growers for handling and
selling leaf tobacco are subject to reasonable regulation by the
State. P. 449.
2. Statutory rates or charges are presumed to be reasonable; he
who attacks them as confiscatory has the burden of proving
them so. P. 450.
3. A legislature, acting within its sphere, is presumed to know the
needs of the people of its State. P. 451.
The existence of the tobacco industry -in Georgia, the transactions of the tobacco markets, and the necessity of protecting the
growers from exorbitant warehouse charges, must be presumed

442

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Counsel for Parties.

301 U. S.

to have been fully known to the members of the legislature, and
this presumption cannot be overthrown by testimony of individual legislators.
4. Practically all the tobacco grown in Georgia is shipped out of
the State in foreign or interstate commerce; the purchasers at the
"markets" in Georgia for the most part are manufacturers of
cigarettes who immediately have the tobacco transported to their
plants outside the State; other purchases made by speculators
and warehousemen are for the purpose of resale as soon as possible to the cigarette manufacturers; and thus the tobacco so
bought, as well as the rest, is destined for interstate or foreign
shipment. Held that, if it be assumed that Congress has authority to regulate charges of the warehousemen, such authority has
not been exercised by the Tobacco Inspection Act of August 23,
1935. P. 452.
5. Congress may circumscribe its regulation of interstate commerce
and occupy a limited field; and the intent to supersede the exer-

cise by the State of its police power as to matters not covered
by the Federal legislation is not to be implied unless the latter,
fairly interpreted, is in actual conflict with the state law. P. 454.
6. The Georgia statute here in question, fixing reasonable maximum charges for the services of warehousemen, in aid of the
tobacco growers but not attempting 'to fix the prices for which
the tobacco is sold at auction in Georgia or to regulate the activities of purchasers, lays no actual burden upon interstate or foreign commerce in the tobacco. P. 455.
7. Federal power over a field of interstate commerce may be exclusive, though unexercised, when the subject is such as to demand
uniformity of regulation; but in matters admitting of diversity of
local treatment according to local requirements, the States, in the
absence of congressional regulation, are at liberty to act. P. 455.
Affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court, of three
judges, dismissing a bill in a suit to restrain the enforcement of a statute fixing maximum charges for handling
and selling leaf tobacco.

Messrs. Wm.Hart Sibley and Robert C. Alston, with

whom Mr. E. K. Wilcox was on the brief, for appellants.

TOWNSEND v. YEOMANS.
441

443

Opinion of the Court.

Messrs. 0. H. Dukes, Assistant Attorney General of
Georgia, and L. W. Branch, with whom Mr. M. J. Yeomans, Attorney General, was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This suit was brought by tobacco warehousemen to restrain the enforcement of a statute of Georgia, approved
March 28, 1935, fixing maximum charges for handling
and selling leaf tobacco. Ga. L. 1935, pp. 476-8.
The statute was assailed as an arbitrary and capricious
exercise of state power, repugnant to the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Federal Constitution, and as placing
a direct burden upon interstate commerce in violation
of the commerce clause. The hearing in the District
Court was by three judges (28 U. S. C. 380) and, upon
findings of fact and conclusions of law, a final decree was
entered dismissing the bill of complaint, one judge dissenting. The case comes here on appeal.
The facts found by the District Court with respect to
the tobacco industry in Georgia and the nature of the
transactions at the warehouses are not in dispute. It
appears that this industry is relatively new, beginning
in 1917, but by the year 1925 it was becoming well established. The type of tobacco grown in Georgia is the
"bright leaf" which is almost exclusively used in the
manufacture of cigarettes. This variety is grown extensively in North Carolina, to a much less extent in
South Carolina and Georgia, and to some extent in Virginia, Kentucky and Tennessee. The acreage planted
by the individual farmer in Georgia is comparatively
small but the aggregate acreage is now not Only very
considerable but is widely distributed over a large area
in the southern portion of the State.
The necessity for markets and the early maturity of
the tobacco in Georgia presented an opportunity which

444

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

was early recognized by experienced and skilled warehousemen who were operating in the tobacco belts of
North Carolina and other States, where selling seasons
begin sometime after the termination of the selling season in Georgia. With few exceptions, competent warehousemen, and experienced and skilled auctioneers and
helpers in handling and selling tobacco are not found in
Georgia and must be obtained from other States. There
were forty-five warehouses operated in 1935, thirty-nine
of which were connected in some capacity with warehouses in North Carolina, Kentucky, Virginia or Tennessee.
The principal purchasers of the bright leaf tobacco
grown in Georgia and elsewhere are limited to a few large
manufacturers of cigarettes. These are called "the Companies." They purchase tobacco only at warehouse auction sales to which they send or furnish "buyers." Each
buyer is the representative of one of the competing purchasers and a "set of buyers," usually from eight to twelve
in number, is made up of representatives from each of the
purchasing cigarette manufacturers. The presence of a
"set of buyers" is essential at an auction sale. A town
having one or more warehouses is known as a "market."
By sending a set of buyers to a new warehouse, the
manufacturers may recognize a new market, and by refusing to send one to an old market may cause its abandonment; and by sending either one or two sets of buyers
to a given market the manufacturers may determine the
rapidity with which the accumulated tobacco may be disposed of. There is another class of purchasers known as
"speculators." These on rare occasions buy tobacco from
a grower and have it transported to a warehouse for sale.
At auction sales speculators to a limited extent, as compared with buyers, purchase tobacco for a later sale.
There is strenuous and expensive competition between
warehousemen in securing tobacco from growers to be

TOWNSEND v. YEOMANS.
441-

445

Opinion of the Court.

handled and sold, but in the sale of tobacco there is no
competition except such as exists between the respective
buyers and speculators at the auction sales, and the bids
of the warehousemen themselves.
The tobacco belt in Georgia comprises about twenty
counties in the southern part of the State, and in 1935
there were fifteen towns known as "markets." Seven of
the markets were supplied with one set of buyers and
eight were furnishedtwo sets. The "two set markets"
had a total of thirty and the "one set markets" a total
of fifteen warehouses in operation. The quantity of tobacco sold in the warehouses and the average prices
ranged from 106,483,019 pounds at 9.86 cents per pound
in 1930, to 71,826,352 pounds at 18.91 cents per pound in
1935.
After the tobacco has been cured and is ready for the
market, the grower grades it as best he can and the resulting "piles" of loose leaves are placed in sheets which are
then tied and the tobacco is so transported to the selected
warehouse for sale. Auction sales are held daily during
five days of the week, and in any particular warehouse as
often as sufficient. tobacco accumulates. It is essential
that there be present the warehouseman, an auctioneer
and other skilled help, and one set of buyers. The warehouseman makes the opening bid. If this is not taken or
raised by another, the warehouseman generally becomes
the purchaser of the tobacco for his own account. If not
sold in that fashion .the bidding continues until the sale
is announced. The grower or other owner may turn down
the sale and in such case he may hold the tobacco for a
later sale or re'move it. After the sale has been completed
the tobacco is delivered to the purchaser who removes it
from the floor. The purchaser has it reweighed and pays
the warehouseman. -The warehouseman then pays the
seller the purchase price, less warehouse charges. Tobaeeo purchased by the warehouseman is afterwards sold
by him at auction.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

The tobacco is ready for the market in the latter part
of July or early in August. The exact date for opening
the selling season is fixed by the manufacturers, who are
the principal buyers, and the warehousemen. The selling
season is from three to five weeks in length. The short tobacco season causes growers to rush tobacco to the market
and does not give thern a fair opportunity "to properly
grade, store, bundle, and orderly market their tobacco."
The short season is in large part occasioned by the efforts
of the manufacturers to transfer their buyers to the North
Carolina belts, in some of which the selling seasons begin
early in September, and the efforts of the warehousemen
to dispose of the tobacco in Georgia so that they and their
auctioneers and other skilled employees may proceed to
the later and larger seasons of North Carolina and other
States.
When the Act in question was passed, the warehouse
charges, based upon three elements, the sale value, the
number of piles handled and the weight of the quantity
sold, were as follows:
Commissions: 21/ per cent. on gross sales.
Auction fees: 25 cents per pile up to 200 pounds; 50
cents per pile above 200 pounds.
Weighing and handling fees: 25 cents per pile up to
100 pounds, and 25 cents for each additional 100 pounds.
The Act of 1935 prescribed the following maximum
charges:
Commissions: 21/ per cent. on gross sales.
Auction fees: 15 cents on all piles of 100 pounds or less;
25 cents on all piles over 100 pounds.
Weighing and handling fees: 10 cents per pile of 100
pounds or less, and 10 cents for each additional 100
pounds.
It will be observed that the statutory reduction is confined to the auction fees and the charges for weighing
and handling. The percentage reduction is difficult of

TOWNSEND v. YEOMANS.
441

Opinion of the Court.

exact determination. Complainants say that the gross income of the warehousemen will be reduced about 20 per
cent. The difference in dollars between the amount
which complainants would have received in 1935 under
the former schedule and the amount to which they would
be entitled under the Act is found to be $115,920.90, and
this amount was paid into the registry of the court. Statutes in North Carolina and South Carolina. fix the same
scale of charges as those prescribed by the Georgia Act.
No .attack has been made upon the constitutionality of
these statutes. The scale heretofore in effect in Georgia
"is not so high as the non-statutory Tennessee or Kentucky charges."
The District Court made additional findings, which
appellants challenge, with respect to the control exercised by the warehousemen over the charges made for
their services and their common agreement as to the
amount of these charges. The court found that by reason of their control of the warehouses "warehousemen
have, unless regulated by law, an unduly coercive control
over the prices charged the growers for services"; that
beginning with the tobacco selling season of 1927 all
warehousemen in Georgia have uniformly maintained
"a hard and fast schedule of charges"; that, while there
have been some exceptions, they are "so insignificant as
to be immaterial"; that prior to 1927 the warehousemen
in Georgia for many years, if not from the beginning of
the industry, "had maintained and exacted from sellers
of tobacco a uniform schedule of charges substantially,
if not identically, the same as the schedule fixed by the
Act of 1935."
The court also found that the propriety of charging
more for handling tobacco in Georgia than in the Carolinas had not been established; that it had not been
shown that the Georgia Act "was passed without any
knowledge on the part of the legislature as to actual con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

ditions under which the business was, and is, being carried on in Georgia"; that it had not been proved "what
each or any warehouseman, individual or corporate, lost
in revenue by reason of the scale of charges prescribed by
the Act"; that it was not denied "that some warehousemen earned -a satisfactory profit" and it had not been
proved that where a loss occurred it was not due "to
excessive competition, ill-advised loans, unnecessary expenses in buying influence or hauling customers' tobacco,
or other causes than the reduction in charges." The
court observed that the testimony as to the effects of the
Act was with respect to the "group of warehousemen who
are complainants, rather than to the effect on each one,
and even then it was not proven that all the losses are
traceable to the reduction in charges rather than to other
causes."
The court made findings with regard to the organization known as the "Tobacco Warehousemen's Association" of which all the complainants were members. The
court said that the prosecution of the suit was "an organized fight through the Warehousemen's Association";
that the growers are not eligible for membership in that
organization; that "the Association and the buyers determine the date the market in Georgia opens and substantially determine the date on which it closes"; that
the Association undertakes to deal with such practices as
affect the interest of the members and adopts rules which
they are to observe. The court quoted from the minutes
of meetings certain action tending to support the view
that there was a common agreement as to warehouse
charges and a concert of action in relation to the present
suit. The court concluded that "through the Warehousemen's Association and their common agreement" as to
charges the complainants "maintain and enjoy a virtual
monopoly in the field covered by their operations"; that
the business of tobacco warehousemen in Georgia in 1935,

TOWNSEND v. YEOMANS.

449

Opinion of the Court.

441

and for some years prior thereto, was such as to cause it
to be "affected with a public interest"; that the scale of
charges prescribed by the Act was "not unreasonable,
arbitrary, and capricious" but was "reasonably adapted
to accomplish the desired result"; and that the fixing of
charges for the services rendered by the warehousemen
did "not burden or interfere with interstate commerce."
First. Unless there is conflict with the authority of the
Congress over interstate commerce, the enactment of the
statute was clearly within the competency of the Georgia
legislature. While appellants' assignment of errors challenge the conclusion of the District Court that the business of the tobacco warehouses was one "affected with a
public interest," their counsel conceded in the argument
at bar that the challenge could not be sustained. That
concession was appropriate in view of the evidence and
the findings. The uncontroverted facts with respect to
the nature and extent of the tobacco industry, the establishment of markets for public sales, and the dependence
of the industry upon the services of the warehousemen
in connection with these sales, show beyond cavil the
public interest in these markets and in the maintenance
of reasonable charges for the services there rendered.
A similar conception of public interest, rei.nforced by
abundant experience, is reflected in the legislationI of
other tobacco growing States. In Virginia the sale of
tobacco in public warehouses has long been regulated by
statute and maximum charges have been fixed. Code of
Virginia, 1S87. §§ 1819-1825; 1924, §. 1376-1381. In
North Carolina such regulation goes back to an early
day. See Consolidated Statutes of North Carolina,
.. 5124 et seq. In Gray v. Central Warehouse Co., 181
N. C. 166; 106 S.E. 657, the Supreme Court of that State,
after summarizing the local legislation upon that subject
since 1895, goes on to say:
146212*-37-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

"Indeed, as far back as the history of the state extends,
the business of tobacco warehouses has been, if not a
public duty, always 'affected with a public use.' The
laws of North Carolina from 1669 to 1790 have been compiled as State Records, vols. 23, 24 and 25, by the writer
of this opinion [Chief Justice Clark], and in the index
thereto, in the last named volume, it appears that no less
than 75 statutes were enacted prior to 1790 in regard to
tobacco warehouses requiring inspection, regulation, and
fixing charges in such business. To the fullest extent,
therefore, their regulation and control by the public has
been recognized and enforced in this State.-In fact,
there is no subject in which the protection of the producers against extortion and combinations to reduce
prices is more important."
In South Carolina maximum charges for selling leaf
tobacco upon the floor of tobacco warehouses are fixed.
Code, South Carolina, 1932, § 7197, and earlier statutes
there cited. The statute of Georgia, here under attack,
copies almost exactly the South Carolina statute. See,
also, as to the authority of the State, Nash v. Page,
80 Ky. 539; Pannell v. Louisville Tobacco Warehouse
Co., 113 Ky. 630.
So far as the present controversy turns upon the power
of the State to give this sort of protection to this industry, provided its regulation is not arbitrary or confiscatory
and in the absence of conflict with the federal power over
commerce, our rulings are decisive in support of the state
action. Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113; Budd v. New
York, 143 U. S. 517; Brass v. Stoeser, 153 U. S. 391;
German Alliance Insurance Co. v. Lewis, 233 U. S. 389;
O'Gorman & Young v. Hartford Insurance Co., 282 U. S.
251; Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S. 502.
Confiscation is not shown. The presumption of reasonableness has not been overthrown. O'Gorman &
Young v. Hartford Insurance Co., supra. It is apparent

TOWNSEND v. YEOMANS.
441

Opinion of the Court.

that the return to the warehousemen will largely be governed by the volume and value of the tobacco crop. The
evidence relates chiefly to the years of the great depression and affords no appropriate criterion for a more normal period. Moreover, we find no sufficient ground for
disturbing the finding of the District Court that the
evidence did not satisfactorily establish what any warehouseman, individual or corporate, lost by reason of the

prescribed scale of charge in contradistinction to its effect
upon the warehousemen as a group. See Aetna Insurance
Co. v. Hyde, 275 U. S.440, 447, 448. The burden resting
upon appellants to make a convincing showing that the
statutory rates 'would operate so severely as to deprive
them, respectively, of their property without due process
of law, was not sustained. Aetna Insurance Co. v. Hyde,
supra; Los Angeles Gas & Electric Corp. v. Railroad
Commission, 289 U. S. 287, 304, 305; Lindheimer v. Illinois Bell Telephone Co., 292 U. S. 151, 164; Dayton
Power & Light Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 292 U. S.
290, 298.
Appellants contend that the legislative action was
taken without investigation and hence must be considered to be arbitrary and beyond the legislative power.
There is no principle of constitutional law which nullifies
action taken by a legislature, otherwise competent; in the
absence of a special investigation. The result of particular legislative inqui-ries through commissions or otherwise
may be most helpful in portraying the exigencies to which
the legislative action has been addressed and in fortifying conclusions as to reasonableness. Nebbia v. New
lYork, supra, pp. 516 et seq. But the legislature, acting
within its sphere, is presumed to know the needs of the
people of the State. Whether or not special inquiries
should be made is a matter for the legislative discretion.
Here, the existence of the industry, highly important to
the State, the transactions in the tobacco markets, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

necessity of protecting the growers from exorbitant warehouse charges, must be presumed to have been fully
known to the members of the legislature and this presuniption cannot be overthrown, as it has been sought to
be overthrown, by testimony of individual legislators.
Second. The main contention of appellants is that the
State had no power to enact the regulation as it attempted to govern transactions in the course of interstate
and foreign commerce. Appellants urge that practically
all the tobacco grown in Georgia is shipped out of the
State, about forty per cent. in foreign, and the remaining
sixty per cent. in interstate, commerce; that the purchasers at the "markets" in Georgia for the most part are
manufacturers of cigarettes who immediately have the
tobacco transported to their plants outside the State;
that the purchases made by speculators and warehousemen are for the purpose of resale as soon as possible to
the cigarette manufacturers, and thus that the tobacco
so bought, as well as the rest, "is destined for interstate
or foreign shipment."
We find it unnecessary to pass upon the authority of
the Congress to regulate the charges of the warehousemen, for we are of the opinion that, if it be assumed that
Congress has that authority, it has not been exercised
and in the absence of such exercise the State may impose
the regulation in question for the protection of its people.
The federal statute, to which appellants refer, is the
"Tobacco Inspection Act" of August 23, 1935. 49 Stat.
731. That statute, while declaring the transactions in
tobacco at auction markets to be "affected with a public
interest" (§ 2) had a limited objective. It did not undertake to regulate the charges of warehousemen or in any
way to derogate from the existing state legislation upon
that subject. It sought to aid tobacco growers by establishing and promoting the use of standards of classification and by maintaining an official inspection service.

TOWNSEND v. YEOMANS.
441

Opinion of the Court.

It was found that the farmer had "no definite system of
grades of his. own," that the private grading systems used
by the buyers were kept "strictly confidential" so that
"without Government standards the farmer has no definite guide for sorting his tobacco," and that hence "farmers generally are unable to class their tobacco correctly
to meet the trade's demands." 1 To meet this need, the
Act authorized the Secrttary of Agriculture to make investigations and to establish standards for tobacco "by
which its type, grade, size, condition, or other characteristics" might be determined (§ 3). It authorized the
Secretary to designate auction markets, on determining
"by referendum the desire of tobacco growers," but it. was
also provided that the Act should not be construed as preventing transactions in tobacco at markets not so designated (§ 5). It authorized the Secretary, independently
or in co6peration with other branches of the Government,
State agencies, or others, to employ and license competent
persons as samplers or weighers but it was added that this
provision was "intended merely to provide for the furnishing of services upon request of the owner or other
person financially interested in tobacco to be sampled, inspected, or weighed," and should "not be construed otherwise" (§ 6). And the Secretary was further authorized, in
order to carry out the purposes of the Act, to "co~iperate
with any other Department or agency of the Governinent; any State, territory, district or possession," as
well as with purchasing and consuming organizations,
boards of trade, etc. (§ 14).
The Congress, as the reports of the committees in both
Houses show,' was fully conversant with the manner in
which the transactions in tobacco were carried on. It
'See Report of the House Committee on Agriculture, H. R. Rep.
No. 1102, 74th Cong., 1st sess.; Report of Senate Committee on
Agricultur6 and Forestry, Sen.. ReD. No. 1211. 74th Cong., 1st sess.
2 See Note 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

cannot be doubted that the Congress was well aware of
the long-established legislation in Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and the more recent legislation in
Georgia, prescribing maximum charges for the services
of warehousemen. We deem it to be highly significant
that, in the light of existing practices and statutory regulations, the Congress carefully restricted its own requirements and did not attempt to interfere with the operation of state laws as to the amounts which warehousemen
might charge. The purpose and terms of the federal
statute negative any such intention. It is inconceivable
that the Congress in endeavoring to aid the tobacco
growers in sorting or "grading," and thus to facilitate the
marketing of their tobacco, intended to deprive them of
the protection they already had against extortionate
charges of the warehousemen upon whom they depended
in making their sales. Instead of frustrating the operation of such state laws, the provisions of the Act expressly
afforded and emphasized the opportunity for co6peration
with the States in protecting the farmers' interests. In
this view we find no ground for the contention that Congress has taken possession of the field of regulation to the
exclusion of state laws which do not conflict with its own
requirements.
The case calls for the application of the well-established
principle that Congress may circumscribe its regulation
and occupy a limited field, and that the intent to supersede the exercise by the State of its police power as to
matters not covered by the federal legislation is not to be
implied unless the latter fairly interpreted is in actual
conflict with the state law. Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S.
501, 533; Atlantic Coast Line v. Georgia, 234 U. S.
280, 293, 294; Illinois Central R. Co. v. Public Utilities
Comm'n, 245 U. S. 493, 510; Carey v. South Dakota, 250
U. S. 118, 122; Lehigh Valley R. Co. v. Public Utilities
Comm'n, 278 U. S. 24, 35; Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v.

TOWNSEND v. YEOMANS.
441

Opinion of the Court.

Railroad Comm'rs, 283 U. S. 380, 392, 393; Hartford Indemnity Co. v. Illinois, 298 U. S. 155, 158.
Laying on one side the federal statute, as in no way
inconsistent, we find no ground for concluding that the
state requirements lay any actual burden upon interstate or foreign commerce. The Georgia Act does not
attempt to fix the prices at the auction sales or to regulate the activities of the purchasers. The fixing of reasonable maximum charges for the services of the warehousemen in aid of the tobacco growers does not militate
against any interest of those who buy. They pay the
bid price, as accepted, and the warehouseman pays the
seller, deducting from the purchase price the warehouse
charges.
We are thus brought to the final contention of appellants that the state law, although not in conflict with any
exertion of federal authority, must fall as being repugnant to the existence of an exclusive federal power although unexercised. The contention ignores the principle that this ground of invalidity is to be found only
with respect to such matters as demand a general system
or uniformity of -regulation; that in other matters, admitting of diversity of treatment according to the special
requirements of local conditions, the States may act within their respective jurisdictions until Congress sees fit to
act. Cooley v. Board of Wardens, 12 How. 299, 319;
Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 399, 400; Hendrick
v. Maryland, 235 U. S. 610, 622; Morris v. Duby, 274
U. S. 135, 143; Sproles v. Binford, 286 U. S. 374, 390.
In the instant case, the Georgia statute deals with a
local need, exercising the State's protective power with
respect to its own industry. A similar contention to that
now advanced was held untenable in Munn v. Illi'nois, 94
U. S. 113, where state regulation of charges by the proprietors of grain elevators was sustained despite the fact
that the elevators were used as instrumentalities by those

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

who engaged in interstate commerce., Id., p. 135. The
point was again raised and overruled in Budd v. New
York, 143 U. S. 517, in upholding the New York statute
regulating charges for "elevating, trimming, receiving,
weighing and discharging grain by means of floating and
stationary elevators and warehouses." It was recognized that, in the actual state of the business, the passage
of the grain to the City of New York and other places
on the seaboard without the use of elevators would be
practically impossible. The elevator at Buffalo was a
link in the chain of transportation of the grain from the
places where it was grown to the seaboard, but the Court
said: "So far as the statute in question is a regulation
of commerce, it is a regulation of commerce only on the
waters of the State of New York. It operates only
within the limits of that State, and is no more obnoxious as a regulation of interstate commerce than was
the statute of Illinois in respect to warehouses, in Munn
v. Illinois. It is of the same character with navigation
laws in respect to navigation within the State, and laws
regulating wharfage rates within the State, and other
kindred laws." Id., pp. 544, 545. Again, in Brass v.
North Dakota, 153 U. S. 391, the statute of that State
"regulating grain warehouses and weighing and handling
of grain" was held not to amount to a regulation of commerce between the States in the absence of a conflict with
federal legislation, upon the authority of the Munn and
Budd cases.
In Cargill Co. v. Minnesota, 180 U. S. 452, 470, the requirement of a state license for grain warehouses on railroad rights of way was found to be not inconsistent with
the power of the Congress, although the warehouse company purchased the grain, handled in or shipped from its
warehouse, for the purpose of transporting it as its property to its terminal elevators in Wisconsin and Illinois
and thence to other points in the eastern States. Id., p.

TOWNSEND v. YEOMANS.
441

Opinion of the Court.

462. The Court thus stated the reasons for this conclusion: "The statute puts no obstacle in the way of the
purchase by the defendant company of grain in the State
or the shipment out of the State of such grain as it purchased. The license has reference only to the business
of the defendant at its elevator and warehouse. The
statute only requires a license in respect of business conducted at an established warehouse in the State between
the defendant and the sellers of grain. . . In no real or
substantial sense is such commerce obstructed by the
requirement of a license." See, also, Merchants Exchange
v. Missouri, 248 U. S. 365, 368.
Even where the Federal Government has intervened, as
in the United States Warehousing Act of August 11, 1916,
7 U. S. C., c. 10, in providing for licenses for warehouses
where agricultural products are "stored for interstate or
foreign commerce," we held that the license did not convert the warehouseman into an instrumentality of the
Federal Government and, while by means of the licensing
provisions a measure of control over those engaged in the
business was secured to the national government, still
the license did not confer upon the warehouseman immunity from state taxation. Federal Compress Co. v.
McLean, 291 U. S. 17, 22, 23. That case was followed
by our decision in Chassaniol v. Greenwood, 291 U. S.
584, to the effect that the business of buying and selling
cotton locally produced, processed and warehoused, was
local in character, and that a local occupation tax upon
the buyer did not contravene the commerce clause 'although the course of the business was such that all the
cotton so bought was ultimately shipped by the buyer
in interstate or foreign commerce. On similar grounds
we held in Minnesota v. Blasius, 290 U. S. 1, 8, that because there was "a flow of interstate commerce" which
was subject to the regulating power of the Congress, it
did not necessarily follow that, in the absence of a con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

flict with the exercise of that power, a State might not
lay a non-discriminatory tax upon property which "although connected with that flow as a general course of
business" had come to rest and acquired a situs within
the State.
All these decisions but illustrate the principle that the
mere existence of the congressional power, no conflict with
its exercise being shown, does not deprive the States of
their authority to safeguard their local interests by legislation which does not directly burden transactions in interstate or foreign commerce.
The cases upon which appellants rely are distinguishable. In Dahnkc-Walker Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U. S.
282, the statute held to be invalid imposed burdensome
conditions upon the enforcement of rights arising from
transactions in interstate commerce. In Levnke v. Farmers Grain Co., 258 U. S.50, the North Dakota statute of
1919 disclosed a comprehensive scheme to regulate the
buying of grain in the course of interstate commerce.
Such purchases could be made only by those who held
licenses from the State, paid state charges for the same.
and acted under a system of grading, inspecting and
weighing fully defined in the Act. The grain could only
be purchased subject to the power of the state grain inspector to determine the margin of profit which the buyer
could realize upon his purchase. That margin of profit
was defined to be the difference between the price paid at
the North Dakota elevator and the market price, with an
allowance for freight, at the Minnesota points to which
the grain was shipped and sold. The state officer was
thus authorized to "fix and determine the price" to be
paid for grain which was "bought, shipped, and sold in interstate commerce." That the provision was a regulation
of interstate commerce was said to be "obvious from its
mere statement." Id., pp. 56-58. The later North
Dakota statute of 1923 fell under a like condemnation in

HARTFORD CO. v. HARRISON.
441

Statement of the Case.

Shafer v. FarmersGrain Co., 268 U. S. 189, as the statute
subjected the buying for interstate shipnent to conditions and a measure of control which caused a direct
interference with interstate commerce.
Here, the Georgia Act lays no constraint upon purchases in interstate commerce, does not attempt to fix the
prices or conditions of purchases, or the profit of the purchasers. It simply seeks to protect the tobacco growers
from unreasonable charges of the warehousemen for their
services to the growers in handling and selling the tobacco
for their account. Whatever relation these transactions
had to interstate and foreign commerce, the effect is
merely incidental and imposes no direct burden upon that
commerce. The State is entitled to afford its industry
this measure of protection until its requirement is superseded by valid federal regulation. The judgment of the
District Court is
Affirmed.
HARTFORD

STEAM

BOILER INSPECTION &
INSURANCE CO. ET AL. v. HARRISON, INSURANCE COMMISSIONER.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF GEORGIA.

No. 355.

Argued February 2, 1937.-Decided May 24, 1937.

A statutory discrimination between the mutual companies and the
stock companies which write fire, casualty, etc., insurance in the
State, forbidding stock companies to act through agents who are
their salaried employees but permitting this to mutual companies,
is repugnant to the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. P. 463.
Georgia Ls., 1935, Act of Mar. 28, 1935, § 1, held unconstitu-

tional. The discrimination has no reasonable relation to the difference between the two classes of companies. It is arbitrary.
183 Ga. 1; 187 S.E. 648, reversed.

from a judgment which reversed a decision of
a trial court directing that a writ of mandamus issue reAPPEAL

