216

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

SMITH, EXECUTOR, v. HALL

301 U. S.
ET AL.*

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 35. Argued October 20, 21,

1936. Reargued April 5, 6, 1937.Decided April 26, 1937.

1. Two suits in which different defendants, charged as infringers,
set up the same ground of invalidity against a patent, and which
were tried by the court, below on a joint record, may be presented
to this Court jointly. P. 218.
2. Patent No. 1,262,860, for a method of hatching eggs, held invalid because of anticipation. Cf. Smith v. Snow, 294 U. S. 1;
Waxham v. Smith, 294 U. S. 20. P. 219.
3. of
Orala evidence
insufficient in itself to establish prior use
patented held
method, but corroborated sufficiently by
documentary evidence. P. 222.
4. Anticipation of a patented method is shown by knowledge of the
method, and its use with operative sucdess, although without full
and precise knowledge of the scientific principles involved, as
ouitlined in the patent. P. 226.
5. While, in attacking a patent, a Patent Office file on an abandoned application may not be relied on as a prior publication,
it may be competent and cogent evidence of the nature and date
of an earlier invention reduced to practice. P. 227.
6. The Smith patent was sustained in the Snow and Waxham cases,
supra, only by establishing that neither the arrangement of the
eggs, nor the particular order in which the propelled air current
should reach the eggs, nor the manner in which it was guided or
controlled, is part of the patent claimed. P. 231.
7. A patentee who has sought and obtained a broad construction of
his claim, cannot narrow it so as to avoid anticipat'on by showing that the claimed method was used in a particular form of
structure not claimed. P. 232.
8. In determining anticipation of a patented method it is immaterial that.the structure employed in the earlier use was neither
the best possible nor as skilfully designed or used as that later
employed.by the patentee. P. 232.
* Together with No. 36, Smith, Executor, v. James Manufacturing

Co., also on certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit.

SMITH v. HALL.
216

Opinion of the Court.

9. Commercial success is not a necessary element of a prior use
anticipating and. invalidating a patent. P. 233.
83 F. (2d) 217, 221, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

298 U. S. 652, to review two decrees of the

court below holding a patent invalid upon the ground
of anticipation, and thereupon reversing decisions of two
district courts which had held the patent valid and infringed. No. 35 was brought by Smith in Connecticut
for alleged infringement of claim 1 against defendants
operating a large commercial hatchery in that State.
No. 36 was a like suit by him in New York against a
corporation engaged in the business of manufacturing
and selling incubators and a commercial hatcheries
company which it controlled.
Messrs. Charles Neave and Albert L. Ely, with whom
Mr. Dean S. Edmonds was on the brief, for petitioner.*
Messrs. Thomas G. Haight and Arthur E. Paige, with
whom Mr. Frank E. Paige was on the brief, for respondents in No. 35.*
Mr. H. A. Toulmin, Jr., with whom Mr: H. A. Toulmin
was on the brief, for respondents in No. 36.*
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

These cases involve the validity of the Smith Patent
No. 1,262,860, of April 16, 1918, and more particularly
the question whether Smith was anticipated by the prior
use of the patented invention by Hastings.
On reargument, Messrs. Dean S. Edmonds and Albert L. Ely,
with whom Mr. Charles Neave was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Thomas G. Haight, with whom Messrs. Arthur E. Paige and
Frank E. Paige were on the brief, for respondents in No. 35. Mr.
H. A. Toulmin, Jr., with whom Mr. H. A. Toulmin was on the brief,
for respondents in No. 36.
*

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

In Smith v. Snow, 294 U. S. 1 (1935), we held the pat-

ent valid and infringed. But in that case the Hastings
prior use was not presented or considered. At that time
the present infringement suits brought by petitioner
against respondents Hall and James were pending in the
district courts for Connecticut and for Western New
York, respectively. In view of the definition given to the
patent by our decision, the Hastings defense assumed an
importance in these suits apparently not attributed to it
in earlier litigation, and it has been developed in the records now before us more fully than in any earlier case.'
The decrees of the district courts rejecting the defense
were reversed by the Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit, 83 F. (2d) 217, 221, which found prior use by
Hastings. We brought the cases here on certiorari, to resolve the conflict in the result of the decisions below with
that of our decision in Smith v. Snow, supra. The two
suits came to the court below, as they do here, upon different records. The court treated the cases as though
the two records constituted a joint record applicable to
both cases, and petitioner presents the cases here jointly.
See Butler v. Eaton, 141 U. S. 240, 243, 244; Dimmick v.
Tompkins, 194 U. S. 540, 548; Washington & Idaho R.
Co. v. Coeur d'Alene Ry. Co., 160 U. S. 101, 103; de"Before the decision in Smith v. Snow, 294 U. S. 1, the Hastings
defense had been considered and rejected in Buckeye Incubator Co. v.
Wolf, 291 Fed. 253, aff'd, 296 Fed. 680 .(C. C. A. 6th), in Buckeye
Incubator Co. v. Cooley, 17 F. (2d) 453 (C. C. A. 3rd), and in Buckeye Incubator Co. v. Stone, a suit in the District Court for Oregon, by
a special master's report, which does not appear to have been reviewed
by the court. In the numerous other litigations of the Smith patent
which preceded the decision in Smith v. Snow, supra, see 294 U. S. at
3, Note 1, the Hastings defense was not urged. Since the decision in
the Snow case the defense has been interposed in suits in the district
courts, Smith v. Street (Dist. Ct. for Minn.), Smith v. Sims (Dist. Ct.
for Indiana) and it has recently been sustained by the Supreme Court
of Canada, in The King v. Smith Incubator Co. (1937).

SMITH v. HALL.
216

Opinion of the Court.

Bear v. Safe Deposit & Trust Co., 233 U. S. 24, 32; West
Ohio Gas Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 294 U. S. 63,
70-71; cf. Reed v. Allen, 286 U. S. 191, 198, 199.
The Hall suit is for an infringement of Claim 1 of the
patent, and the James suit for infringement of Claims 1,
2, 3 and 5. Claims 1, 2 and 3 are claims for a method of
incubation of a plurality of eggs. Claim 5 is a claim for
an apparatus adapted to the use of the method apd is of
significance in the present litigation only if a method
claim is sustained. Claim 1 may be taken as typical of
the other method claiims. In Smith v. Snow, supra, its
essential elements were stated to be (p. 8):
"(a) the arrangement of the eggs at different levels in
staged incubation in a closed chamber, having restricted
openings of sufficient capacity for the escape of foul air
without undue loss of moisture; (b) the application to
the eggs of heated air in a current created by means other
than variation of temperature; and (c), as marking the
boundaries of the claim, the current of air is to be of sufficient velocity to circulate, diffuse and maintain the air
throughout the chamber at substantially the same temperature whereby the air will be vitalized, moisture conserved, and the units of heat carried from the eggs in the
m6re advanced stage to those in the less advanced."
Staged incubation is the successive setting of eggs in
the same incubator at brief intervals. At different stages
in the course of the three weeks period of incubation the
eggs have different temperatures, those in the earlier
having lower temperatures than those in the later stages.
When subjected to a temperature approximating that
of body heat, the eggs of the earlier stages absorb heat
and those of the later stages give off heat. It was pointed
out in the opinion in the Snow case that a demonstrated
advantage of the Smith method over that of the earlier
type of incubator, in which there was no propelled current of air, is that it facilitates the continuous operation

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

of the incubator through staged incubation, and makes
it possible in the process of incubation to increase the
number of eggs in a single incubator from a few hundred to many thousands.
To avoid infringement, it was insisted in the Snow
case that the claim was restricted, by the specifications
and drawings of the patent, to use of the method in an
apparatus by which the propelled current of heated air
was first brought in contact with the more advanced
eggs. In rejecting that contention the opinion pointed
out that neither the claim itself, construed in the light
of the specifications, nor the successful operation of the
method, required the arrangement of the eggs in any particular -order; that the continuous circulation of air of
appropriate temperature in a closed chamber, called for
by the claim, served to equalize the temperature at the
desired degree by carrying heat units from the more advanced eggs of high temperature to the less advanced eggs
of lower temperature, regardless of the particular order
in which it passed the eggs of different stages. We said
(p. 14):
"the claim does not call for a particular order or arrangement of the eggs in staged incubation in the incubator, or that the propelled current should reach them
in any particular order, or that it should be guided, controlled or directed by any particular means, or in any
particular manner other than that it should be of sufficient velocity to produee the results prescribed by the
claim."
Thus construed, infringement of the patented method
could not be avoided nor anticipation of it denied by
showing that the challenged use was with different arrangements of the eggs or with a different structure, for
guiding or controlling the propelled current of air within
the closed chamber, from any exhibited in the specifications and drawings of the patent.

SMITH v. HALL.
216

Opinion of the Court.

To establish, the Hastings prior use respondents rely
on the proof of his construction of an incubator in Brooklyn, New York, early in 1911, and its use in the hatching
season in the early months of that year and of 1912,
and on proof of his construction of another in Muskogee,
Oklahoma, in 1911, and its use in 1912 and 1913. They
offer documentary corroboration in more or less contemporary articles in published journals and in a patent application with its supporting documents, filed in the patent office in 1911.
Without stopping to state the evidence in detail, it
is established by the testimony of Hastings, abundantly
corroborated, and not seriously denied, that, apart from
the setting of eggs in staged incubation, which will be
presently discussed, these incubators employed all the
elements of the Smith method, and that their operation
was successful in the sense that they were each used for
hatching eggs for two successive seasons and- that the
percentage of the hatches was comparable to that of the
smaller still air incubators then in use. Hastings' incubators were closed chambers, with restricted openings. A
current of heated air was propelled by a motor driven
fan in such manner as to come in contact with the eggs
placed within the chamber in stacks of trays, and to
return to the fan by means of which it was continuously
recirculated. See Smith v. Snow, supra, 19, 20; Waxham
v. Smith, 294 U. S. 20, 22. Both incubators were of
large capacity. That in Brooklyn was built for 6,000
eggs, although it does not appear that it ever contained
more than 2,000 eggs at any one time, and that in Muskogee was for 30,000 eggs. It is plain that Hastings built
and operated incubators suitable for the use of the Smith
method, but petitioner sharply challenges the contention
that he did use that method in either of them. It is
said that there is no convincing proof that eggs were
ever placed in the Brooklyn incubator in staged incuba-

222

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

tion, and that the structure of the other and the manner
of its use were such as to show that the Smith method
as we have described it was not employed. These are
the crucial issues.
Hastings built and operated the Brooklyn incubator
for Davis, who conducted a poultry farm as the means
of supplying chickens for a restaurant which he also operated. After Hastings left Davis' employ in May, 1911,
the latter operated the incubator during the season of
1912. Subsequently he went out of the poultry business
and dismantled the incubator. Hastings testified, specifically and in detail, that the eggs were placed in the
Brooklyn incubator in staged incubation. Davis, corroborated to some extent by his wife, testified that the
eggs were placed in the incubator at twice a week intervals, when they were delivered, at the rate of one or two
crates a week, by the poultryman from whom they were
purchased. The eggs were placed in trays in the incubator chamber where they were exposed to a current
of heated air under thermostatic control. The air, maintained at a practically uniform temperature, was continuously circulated throughout the chamber by means
of an electric fan. This oral testimony, if taken at its
face value, would show that the Smith method was used
in the Brooklyn incubator with eggs in staged incubation.
But without corroboration, it is insufficient to establish
prior use, Barbed Wire Patent, 143 U. S. 275, 284; Deering v. Winona Harvester Works, 155 U. S. 286, 300; Eibel
Process Co. v. Minnesota & Ontario Paper Co., 261 U. S.
45, 60, and we turn to the documentary evidence that
Hastings knew the method of the patent and used it in
his Brooklyn structure.
Before 190.8 Hastings had had an extensive experience
in poultry culture. In 1908 and 1909 he was in the
service of the Department of Agriculture, and in the

SMITH v. HALL.
216

Opinion of the Court.

course of his duties he inspected many poultry plants and
experimental stations operating incubators. He was the
author of a book, "The Dollar Hen," published in 1909,
in which he described a procedure for the incubation of
eggs. It spoke of an incubator in which "At hatching
time the eggs are spread out in trays in a special hatching
room, which is only large enough to accommodate chicks
to the amount of one-sixth of the incubator .capacity, for
twice a week deliverings or one-third if weekly deliveries
are desired." It also described an incubator in which
"All temperature regulation is by means of air heated
(or cooled as the case may be) outside of the egg rooms
and forced into the egg rooms by a motor driven cone
fan, maintaining a steady current of air, the rate of movement of which may be varied at will. The air movement maintained will always be sufficiently brisk, however, to prevent an unevenness of temperature in
different parts of the room." The reference to an incubator in continuous operation, for deliveries once or
twice a week, and to temperature regulation of the egg
chamber by a propelled current of heated air, moving at
a velocity sufficient to maintain an even temperature,
shows that Hastings had the conception of staged incubation long before he built the Brooklyn incubator.
On May 3, 1911, while he was in Davis' employ, and
when the Brooklyn incubator was in operation, Hastings
filed an application for a patent, Serial No. 624,885.
Documents in support of the application filed as late as
July 1911, give Hastings' address as that of Davis in
Brooklyn. The application discloses a chamber with restricted openings in which the eggs are placed and
through which a steady current of air, heated to a uniform temperature, is propelled by a constantly moving
electric fan, so as to circulate throughout the chamber.
Although the application taught the use of fabric or per-

OCTOBER TERM, .1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

forated partitions for the purpose of causing an even distribution of the current of air, it specified that the invention was "not limited to any particular circulation or
movement of the air and by the use of the fan the gravity drafts may be overcome and the air caused to move in
any desired direction." The application was prepared
by Hastings, but upon its rejection by the examiner, he
sought the aid of counsel who, on May 24, 1912, amended
the claim and filed a statement in explanation of it, stating that they had derived data and information from a
practical hatchery of large capacity then being operated
by the applicant.
In this statement it was pointed out that "the temperature ofthe eggs themselves varies in accordance with
the stage of their development and the gaseous emanations tend to produce vitiated conditions which exert a
marked influence upon the eggs themselves and especially
upon adjacent eggs, if the eggs are at different stages of
their development"; that "in a large hatchery where
many hundreds and even thousands of eggs are being
continually advanced in the process of incubation the
ordinary means for causing the circulation of air by convexion currents through and in the incubating chamber
has been demonstrated as being totally inadequate, and
this is believed to be one of the principal reasons why,
up to the present time, hatcheries of large capacity have
proven to be practical failures." And finally it was stated
that Hastings had "discovered that the temperature and
gaseous stratification in the incubating chamber must be
overcome by a mechanically forced circulation of the air
which will insure a correct and uniform influence of the
air upon all of the eggs in the incubating chamber, and
this forced circulation must be such as to overcome the
counteracting influence of the eggs upon the air when
said eggs are in the different stages of incubation."

SMITH v. HALL.
216

Opinion of the Court.

In the brief of counsel on appeal to the Board of Examiners-in-Chief, dated December 30, 1912, these points
were elaborated and explained. It was stated: "The
problem has been to enable the incubating operations to
be carried on continuously, if so desired, with eggs at all
stages of development, and with all of a vast number of eggs subjected to the same temperature and
atmospheric conditions best adapted for the development of the embryo." It was pointed out that "during the initial stage of incubation the eggs absorb
heat whereby their temperature is raised, but during the final stages the vital processes generate heat, and
in practice it is found that with vast numbers of eggs assembled in a single compartment and with eggs at all
stages of incubation but very little extraneous heat need
be supplied, because the eggs in the later stages of development supply the necessary heat for the eggs in the
earlier stages of development. In practice, however, a
source of heat is always maintained in order to permit of
proper regulation."
It was then explained that the "temperature stratification in the egg chamber" is overcome "through the provision of a mechanically operated air forcing means which
would force a rapid circulation of air through the whole
collection of eggs in the chamber and past the heater.
The mechanical air forcing means is an essential factor,
if heat is to be conserved and the conditions maintained
uniform." And later it was said: "It is through the instrumentality of these elements that the temperature and
gaseous stratification of the air in the chamber is overcome and the eggs are uniformly subjected to the influence of air of the same temperature and composition."
The brief also quoted from a statement of Hastings,
which, after observing that temperature stratification
may be overcome in a hatching chamber holding many
146212°--:-37--15

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

thousands of eggs by applying to them a mechanically
impelled blast of air, says:
"In the Hastings hatchery, a current of air is blown
past each and every egg at the rate of thirty feet per
minute and this rapidly moving air quickly bringing the
temperature of the egg to approximately that of the air.
This method of heating keeps the temperature of the eggs
in the advanced state of incubation down within a few
degrees of that of the air, the exact difference being
regulated at will by adjusting the speed of the fan. When
properly adjusted the same blast of air used to heat
fresh eggs does equally well for eggs in the advanced
stages just as the same temperature of the body of the hen
'incubates the eggs at all stages of development, without
recourse on the hen's part to the 'hatching fever,' erroneously supposed to explain the high temperature of eggs
at a more advanced stage of development. Owing to this
fact eggs at all stages may be handled simultaneously
with uniformly good results."
He also mentioned the introduction of moisture into
the current of air by the use of a spray or the introduction of outside air at the fan.
We think it plain that at the time these documents
were filed the essential elements for hatching eggs in
staged incubation, as they were later claimed in the
Smith patent, were known to Hastings, and that he was
familiar with a structure capable of employing that
method. They afford convincing corroboration of the
oral testimony that the incubator in use in Brooklyn
immediately preceding the filing of the application, and
both incubators in use during its pendency, employed
the method of the Smith claim. Whether Hastings
knew fully and precisely the scientific principles involved
in the procedure thus outlined is immaterial. It is
enough if he knew and used the method with operative

SMITH v. HALL.
216

Opinion of the Court.

success. DeForest Radio Co. v. General Electric Co.,
283 U. S. 664, 686. He did know the method of setting
eggs in staged incubation in a closed chamber and continuously circulating through them a current of moistened air at an appropriate temperature, and he knew
that the advantages of the use of this method over the
type of incubator in which there were no mechanically
propelled currents of air, were that it facilitated the continuous operation of the incubator and the simultaneous
incubation in a single chamber of a greatly increased
number of eggs.
The disclosures made in the Hastings brief were so
complete that they might well have been used in support of the Smith claim. Pressed to their conclusion,
they would have warranted award of the patent later
granted to Smith. See Smith v. Snow, supra, 14-16.
While the Patent Office file on the abandoned claim is
not relied on as a prior publication, see The Corn-Planter
Patent, 23 Wall. 181, 210-211; cf. Alexander Milburn Co.
v. Davis Co., 270 U. S. 390, 400, 402, it is competent and
cogent evidence to determine the nature and date of the
invention which the inventor claims to have embodied in
working form, see Corn-PlanterPatent,supra,211; United
States Blind Stitch Machine Corp. v. Reliable Machine
Works, 67 F. (2d) 327, 328 (C. C. A. 2d); Walker, Patents (6th ed.j 1929), §§ 97, 98.
In 1911, Hastings induced Lieber, a local lawyer and
business man of Muskogee, Oklahoma, and another, to
organize a corporation for the promotion of the Hastings
method of incubation. Under its auspices Hastings constructed there an incubator of 30,000 egg capacity in the
latter part of 1911 and, directed its operation during the
1912 hatching season. Its operation was continued by an
associate in the season of 1913. The general plan of its
construction and mechanical operation as testified to by

228

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

Hastings is abundantly corroborated by disinterested
witnesses and contemporary photographs and publications describing it. The principal witnesses are Lieber,
who furnished the money for the enterprise, Peabody,
the electrical contractor who installed the fan and other
electrical equipment of the incubator, and Hickox, manager of the local electric light company which supplied
the current for the incubator. In 1912, Hickox took
photographs of the incubator in operation, and prepared
a written description of it. These were produced at
the trial.
The uncontradicted evidence is that the incubator consisted of a large room in which there were a series of
stacks of egg trays with wire mesh bottoms. Each stack,
having a capacity of 5,000 eggs, was placed in a separate
compartment. There was a corridor in front of the trays
giving access to the stacks, which, in operation, were
closed on the corridor side by removable shutters. A
motor-driven fan, placed at one end of the incubator,
propelled a current of air over a moisture pan, thence
through a passage at the back of the egg trays into contact with a heating pipe under' thermostatic control.
From that point it passed into a passageway directly
above the stacks of egg trays, thence downward through
the trays to a passage beneath them, through which the
current was returned to the fan in continuous circulation.
A number of other witnesses, having no connection with
the Hastings enterprise, including three called by petitioner, saw the incubator in operation and corroborate the
testimony as to its main features; the presence within
the incubator of thousands of eggs, placed in stacks or
trays, hatched by the circulation through them of a fanpropelled heated current of air.
An article giving some account of the Hastings incubator, prepared by an editor of Poultry Culture and published in that journal for February, 1912, mentions the

SMITH v. HALL.
216

Opinion of the Court.

use of two flumes carrying the current of air from the
fan, only one of which brought the air into contact with
the heater. It speaks of a use of a means for controlling
temperature of the air passing to each egg compartment,
by mixing in proper proportions the flow of air from the
two flumes. The existence of such a double conduit is
not corroborated by any witness or any document, and
is explicitly denied by Lieber, testifying in behalf of petitioner in the Stone case, made a part of the present record, and by Hastings. Peabody, who installed the electrical equipment, and Hickox, who prepared a contemporary written description of the incubator, make no
rmention of it. Drawings showing a single passageway
carrying the current of air to the egg stacks were identified as accurate by Hastings, Lieber and Peabody. We
conclude that, whatever experimental proposals or installations may have been made, the incubator was used with
a single air passage above the egg compartments.
All the witnesses agree that the incubator was commercially operated during the hatching seasons of 1912
and 1913, and that it hatched different batches of eggs
placed in it, with varying success. The hatches of the
eggs furnished by some customers were failures. Others
were successful. One of petitioner's witnesses testified
that the hatches never exceeded 50%. Lieber estimated
that 50% was the average, with some people getting none
and others getting 80%. Hastings, who in the Canadian
suit testified that the average was 40%, stated that some
settings ran up to 70%. There is no testimony of any
mechanical failure of the incubator after the initial trials
of it, as a result of which an electric blower was substituted for the fan of lesser power. In 1912, Hastings departed for Texas, where he started another incubator.
After operating the incubator through another hatching
season, Lieber, his financial backer, abandoned the enterprise.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

As with the Brooklyn incubator, the critical issue is
whether that in Muskogee was used with eggs in staged
incubation in the manner of the Smith claim. It is established beyond doubt that eggs in different stages
were in process of incubation there at the same time.
The incubator was used in large measure for "custom
hatching." At frequent intervals, patrons brought their
eggs in relatively small quantities to be placed in the incubator for hatching, and received at the end of the hatching period their share of the newly hatched chicks.
The testimony of Hastings that staged incubation was
employed in the Muskogee structure is corroborated by
this course of business and by the contemporaneous statements and brief filed with his patent application. He
testified that eggs of different stages were sometimes,
though not always, placed in the same compartment of
the incubator. The Poultry Culture article of February,
1912, states, after describing the use of the fan-propelled
current of heated air in the incubator: "eggs at all stages
can be placed in the same trays of the Hastings hatchery,
with little or no injury. Mr. Hastings hatched several
thousand eggs under such conditions in his Brooklyn
plant last year."
Petitioner stresses the point that in the Muskogee incubator, the stacks of egg trays were concededly placed
in separate compartments, with openings at the top having slide doors which could be used like a valve for regulating the volume of air flowing into each compartment.
Hastings testified that the slide doors were used to cut
down the supply of air when there were few or no eggs in
a compartment and that they were left open when the
compartment was substantially full of eggs. Petitioner
points to this and to some testimony by Hastings and
Lieber that the slide doors could be used to regulate the
temperature in each compartment through control of the

SMITH v. HALL.
216

Opinion of the Court.

volume of air passing through them, and to testimony
by Lieber that the eggs, as received, were first placed in
one compartment and then at intervals, as other eggs
came in, were moved from one compartment to another,
and that the doors were used to control variations of
temperature in the different compartments.
From this the inference is drawn that only eggs of the
same stage were placed in any one compartment, and
from the inference it is argued that they were not set
in staged incubation. But even if the inference is correct, it establishes only that a special method or device
to guide and control the air current was used, not that
staged incubation was wanting. The presence or absence
of a device for controlling the current of air within the
incubator is no part of the Smith claim. Our opinions in
Smith v. Snow, supra, and Waxham v. Smith, supra, were
careful to point out that infringement of the method
could not be avoided by using it in conjunction with such
a device. The presence of the device in the Muskogee
incubator did not ,foreclose anticipation if the method
was used. Since the circulating current of air passed
repeatedly into the compartments in the Muskogee structure and came in contact with the heating pipe and with
the eggs in the several stacks of trays, the tendency of
the operation was to equalize the temperature and to
carry heat units from the more advanced to the less advanced eggs. This is the method of the patent and it
was employed in the Muskogee structure whether the
trays of eggs of different stages were placed in the same
or different compartments.
The patent was sustained in the Snow and Waxham
cases, supra, only by establishing that neither the arrangement of the eggs, nor the particular order in which
the propelled current should reach the eggs, nor the manner in which it was guided or controlled, is part of the

232

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

patent claimed. It was this construction of the claim
which gave a new significance to the Hastings incubators,
different from any recognized by previous decisions.
The petitioner, having sought and obtained a broad construction of his claim, cannot now narrow it so as to avoid
anticipation by showing that the claimed method was
used in a particular form of structure not claimed. It
was the method thus defined which Hastings used, regardless of the particular structure which he devised to
guide and control the current of air in his incubator, or
the order in which it came into contact with the heater
and eggs of different stages. It is immaterial that his
structure for using the method was neither the best
possible nor as skilfully designed or used as that later
employed by Smith. Pickering v. McCullough, 104 U. S.
310, 319; cf. Telephone Cases, 126 U. S. 1, 531, 536.
In view of this conclusion it is unimportant whether
Hastings used, the method in his Brooklyn incubator.
But we think the testimony of its use there is sufficiently
corroborated. His statement in "The Dollar Hen," already quoted, published before the Brooklyn structure
was erected, shows clearly that he contemplated the continuous operation of an incubator with the eggs set in
staged incubation so that they would be hatched for
deliveries once or twice a week, by a procedure substantially that of the Smith claim. The circumstances attending the Brooklyn use, which called for the setting of
eggs at frequent intervals in an incubator of large
capacity, the structure exhibited in Hastings' patent a)
plication, the subsequent course of the application in the
Patent Office, and finally the renewed effort at Muskogee
embodying the same principles, although with an immaterial variation in structure, and the fact that both incubators functioned, are convincing evidence that Hastings knew and used in appropriate combination, both in

SMITH v. HALL.
216

Opinion of the Court.

Brooklyn and in Muskogee, the essential elements of the
Smith claim. They support the heavy burden of
persuasion which rests upon one who seeks to negative
novelty in a patent by showing prior use. See Radio
Corporationv. Radio EngineeringLaboratories,293 U. S.
1, 7, and cases cited.
Petitioner urges, and we have considered, numerous
other objections to the sufficiency of proof of the Hastiigs prior use. The only one calling for any comment
is the suggestion that the Brooklyn and Muskogee enterprises were not commercially successful. Commercial
success may turn the scale when invention is in doubt,
Paramount Publix Corp. v. American Tri-Ergon Corp.,
294 U. S.464, 474; DeForest Radio Co. v. General Electric Co., supra, 685, and the want of it may, in some circumstances, be evidence of want of operative success.
But here Hastings by the use of a method which we have
sustained as an invention, Smith v. Snow, supra, has attained the particular results described by the patent. He
knew the method and used it in a device capable of employing it. In such circumstances want of commercial
success, which the record suggests may have been due to
lack of technical and business skill, is not an indication
that there was no prior use.
Upon the records now before us we must conclude, as
did the Supreme Court of Canada upon a similar record
(Footnote 1, supra), that Hastings antedated Smith.
The Smith method was "known or used by others in this
country before his invention or discovery thereof."
35 U. S. C., § 31.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

took no part in the con-

sideration or decision of these cases.

