308

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

301 U. S.

CINCINNATI SOAP CO. v. UNITED STATES.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 659.

Argued April 1, 2, 1937.-Decided May 3, 1937.

Section 602 of the Revenue Act of 1934 imposes a tax of 3 cents
per pound upon the first domestic processing of coconut oil, and
provides that all such taxes collected with respect to coconut oil
wholly of Philippine production, etc., "shall be held as a separate
fund and paid to the Treasury of the Philippine Islands, but if
at any time the Philippine Government provides by any law for
any subsidy to be paid to the producers of copra, coconut oil, or
allied products, no further payments t6 the Philippine Treasury
shall be made under this subsection." Held:
1. The imposition of the tax in itself is a valid exercise of the
taxing power, consistent with the due process clause of the Fifth
Amendment. P. 312.
2. A valid tax may be bound to a valid appropriation of the
moneys so realized, in the same Act of Congress. P. 313.
3. Whether a tax serves any of the purposes enumerated in
the Constitution, Art. I, § 8, cl. 1,--"to pay the debts and provide
for the common defence and general welfare of the United
States,"-is a practical question addressed to the law-making
power, whose conclusion must be accepted by the courts unless
plainly without justification. P. 313.
4. Owing to the peculiar relation of dependency of the Philippine Islands and their inhabitants on the United States, it is a
moral obligation of the United States to protect, defend and provide for their general welfare. P. 313.
5. The tax and appropriation may be sustained as a discharge
of a moral obligation amounting to a "debt" within the meaning
of the taxing clause of the Constitution. P. 314.
6. Congress, from the beginning, has acted upon the view that
the term "debts" includes moral obligations. Id.

7. Quaere whether the tax and. appropriation in the present
instance might not be justified as an exercise of the taxing power

Together with No. 687, Haskins Bros. & Co. v. O'Malley, Collector of Internal Revenue. Certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Eighth Circuit..

CINCINNATI SOAP CO. v. U. S.
308

309

Syllabus.

to provide, in a broad sense, for the public defense or the general
welfare of the United States. P. 315.
8. The determination of Congress to recognize the moral obligation of the Nation to make an appropriation as a requirement
of justice and honor,.is obviously a matter of policy and discretion
not open to judicial review, unless in circumstances such as are
not present in this case. P. 317.
9. It does not follow that because a federal tax levied for the
express purpose of paying the debts or providing for the welfare
of a State might be invalid, such a tax for the uses of a territory
or dependency, over which the United States has plenary, power,
would likewise be invalid. P. 317.
10. The passage of the Philippine Independence Act of March
24, 1934, and the adoption and approval of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of the Philippine Islands, did not withdraw the
sovereignty of the United States from the Islands, nor make
them foreign to the United States. P. 319.
11. Congress has power to levy a tax with the collateral purpose of protecting industries of the United States. P. 320.
12. Assuming the present tax levied for that purpose, it was
for Congress to determine whether there was a moral duty to
offset the burden of it on the Philippine production by an equivalent appropriation to the Philippine treasury. P. 320.
14. The provision of the Constitution, Art. I, § 9, cl.7, that
"No money shall be drawn from the Treasury but in consequence of appropriations made by law" was intended as a
restriction upon the disbursing authority of the Executive Department, and is without significance here. It means simply
that no money can be paid out of the Treasury unless it has
been appropriated by an Act of Congress. P. 321.
15. The contention of the taxpayers in this case that there has
been no constitutional appropriation of the proceeds of the tax, and
that any attempted appropriation is bad, because the particular
uses to which the appropriated money is to be put have not been
specified, is without merit. P. 321.
. 16. Payment of the proceeds of the tax to the Philippine Government, with no direction as to the expenditure thereof, was
not an unconstitutional delegation of legislative power. P. 321.
17. In dealing with the territories, possessions and dependencies
of the United States, this Nation has all the powers of other
sovereign nations, and Congress in legislating is not subject to the
same restrictions which are imposed in respect of laws for the

310

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

United States considered as a political body of States in union.
P. 323.
Judgments affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

300 U. S. 649, to review two judgments of

the District Courts sustaining demurrers to the petitions
filed by the Soap Company and another in actions to
recover moneys exacted as taxes. The cases had been
appealed to the Circuit Courts of Appeals, but had not
been heard or submitted when the writs of certiorari
issued.
Mr. Alfred Bettman, with whom Mr. James L. Magrish
was on the brief, for Cincinnati Soap Co., petitioner in
No. 659.
Mr. Frederick H. Wood, with whom Messrs. Alfred C.
Munger, William Stanley, and Thomas T. Cooke were
on the brief, for Haskin Brothers & Co., Inc., petitioner
in No. 687.
Assistant Attorney General Jackson, with whom Solicitor General Reed, Assistant Attorney General Morris,
and Messrs. Sewall Key, F. A. Le Sourd, and Charles A.
Horsky were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Section 6021/ of the Revenue Act of 1934, c. 277, 48
Stat. 680, 763, imposes a tax of 3 cents per pound upon
the first domestic processing of coconut oil, and provides
that all such taxes collected with respect to coconut oil
wholly of Philippine production, etc., "shall be held as a
separate fund and paid to the Treasury of the Philippine
Islands, but if at any time the Philippine Government
provides by any law for any subsidy to be paid to the pro-

CINCINNATI SOAP CO. v. U. S.
308

Opinion of the Court.

ducers of copra, coconut oil, or allied products, no further
payments to the Philippine Treasury shall be made under
this subsection."
Both petitioners are engaged in manufacturing soap
and, at times stated in their petitions, used in its manufacture large quantities of coconut oil wholly the product
of the Philippine Islands. In pursuance of § 6021/2, they
made returns and paid the amount of the tax as required
by that section. Subsequently, each of them filed with
the Bureau of Internal Revenue a claim for the refund
of the tax, on the ground that the imposition was not
within the constitutional power of Congress. Both claims
were denied, and petitions at law were filed in federal district courts to recover the sums paid. Demurrers were
interposed attacking the sufficiency of the petitions, and
these demurrers were sustained by the trial courts. Appeals were taken to the respective circuit courts of appeal
named in the title; and we granted writs of certiorari before a hearing or submission in those courts, because of
the importance to the Philippine Islands of an early final
decision of the question.
The validity of the tax is assailed by petitioners upon
a variety of grounds, developed at length in their respective briefs and by the oral arguments at the bar. So
far as we find it necessary to consider the various contentions, they may be stated in general terms as follows:
that the tax is not imposed for any purpose contemplated
by the taxing clause of § 8, Art. I, of the Federal Constitution-that is to say, it is notimposed to pay the debts
or provide for the common defense or general welfare of
the United States; that, on the contrary, it is imposed for
a purely local purpose, in violation of the Tenth Amendment; that the exaction violates the due process clause
of the Fifth Amendment, because it is an arbitrary exaction from one group of persons for the exclusive benefit

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

" 301 U. S.

of another; that the act does not impose a true tax, but is
a regulatory measure outside the field of federal power;
that it violates clause 7, § 9, of Art. I of the Constitution,
which provides that "No Money shall be drawn from the
Treasury, but in Consequence of Appropriations made by
Law"; that the payment in bulk of the entire proceeds
of the tax to the Philippines, with no direction as to the
expenditure thereof, constitutes an unlawful delegation
of legislative power. In dealing with these contentions,
we find it convenient to do so without following'the precise order in which they have just been stated. And certain of them are so interrelated that they may be joined
for consideration in the same subdivision of the opinion
which follows.
First. Plainly, the imposition of the tax in itself is a
valid exercise of the taxing power of the federal government. I+ is purely an excise tax upon a manufacturing
process for revenue purposes, and in no sense a regulation of the process itself. The Tenth Amendment is
without application, since the powers of the several states
over local affairs are not invaded or involved. This is
disclosed upon the face of the act so clearly that discussion could not make it plainer. United States v. Butler, 297 U. S. 1, relied upon by petitioner, is not in point.
There, we held that the sole aim of the statute, as shown
by its terms, was to regulate a local situation, a matter
wholly within the reserved powers of the states; and
moreover that it amounted to a naked taking of the
property of one group of persons for bestowal upon another group. The Child Labor Tax Case, 259 U. S. 20,
and other cases cited, bear still more remotely upon the
contention. It is enough to say that the feature of the
present case which differentiates it from all those cited
is that the exaction here, both in form and substance,
is a true tax, imposed, as we presently shall show, for a

CINCINNATI SOAP CO. v. U. S.
308

Opinion of the Court.

federal constitutional purpose. In that view the due
process clause of the Fifth Amendment is not involved.
Second. Standing apart, therefore, the tax is unassailable. It is said to be bad because it is earmarked and
devoted from its inception to a specific purpose. But
if the tax, qua tax, be good, as we hold it is, and the
purpose specified be one which would sustain a subsequent and separate appropriation made out of the general
funds of the Treasury, neither is made invalid by being
bound to the other in the same act of legislation. The
only concern which we have in that aspect of the matter is to determine whether the purpose specified is one
for which Congress can make an appropriation without
violating the fundamental law. If Congress, for reasons
deemed by it to be satisfactory, chose to adopt the quantum of receipts from this particular tax as the measure
of the appropriation, we perceive no valid basis for challenging its power to do so.
We inquire first-Is the proposed appropriationto the
Philippine Treasury for a constitutional purpose? since
an affirmative answer to that question will establish the
constitutional purpose of the tax. The pertinent taxing
clause provides in general terms (Art. I, § 8, cl. 1) that
taxes may be laid "to pay the Debts and provide for the
common Defence and general Welfare of the United
States." Primarily, and in a very high degree, whether a
tax serves any of these purposes is a practical question
addressed to the law-making department. And it will
require a very plain case to warrant the courts in setting aside the conclusion of Congress in that regard.
Compare Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S. 509, 514-516. Nevertheless, such plain cases may exist; and the question is
whether this is one of them.
The Philippine Islands and their inhabitants, from
the beginning of our occupation, have borne a peculiar

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

relation to the United States. The Islands constitute a
dependency over which the United States, for more than
a generation, has had and exercised supreme power of
legislation and administration, Posadas v. National City
Bank, 296 U. S. 497, 502, a power limited only by the
terms of the treaty of cession and those principles of
the Constitution which by their nature are inherently inviolable. The possession of this well-nigh absolute power
over a dependent people carries with it great obligations,
as was pointed out by Mr. Root as Secretary of War in
1899. After referring to the practically unlimited power
which we had over the Philippines, he said: "I assume,
also, that the obligations correlative to this great power
are of the highest character, and that it is our unquestioned duty to make the interests of the people over whom
we assert sovereignty the first and controlling consideration in all legislation and administration which concerns
them, and to give them, to the greatest possible extent,
individual freedom, self-government in accordance with
their capacity, just and equal laws, and opportunity for
education, for profitable industry, and for development
in civilization." Military and Colonial Policy of the
United States, 161-162.
Among these correlative duties is the moral obligation
to protect, defend, and provide for the general welfare
of, the inhabitants. And such an obligation well may
require the appropriation and expenditure of money from
the national purse-in which case the obligation fairly
comes within the term "debts" as used in the taxing
clause. United States v. Realty Co., 163 U. S. 427,
440-441. Congress, from the beginning of its existence,
has accepted and legislated upon that view of the broad
meaning of the term. In innumerable instances, it has
made appropriations to relieve needs caused by earthquakes, fire,, and other events, not only in localities

CINCINNATI SOAP CO. v. U. S.
308

315

Opinion of the Court.

within or possessed by the United States, but in foreign
countries as well. Government counsel has furnished us
an impressive list of appropriations of this character;
and in addition has called attention to the many instances
of appropriations for the support and welfare of the
Indians, and for the uses of the territories. Legislation
of this character has been so long continued and its
validity so long unquestioned that, as we said in United
States v. Curtiss-Wright Corp., 299 U. S. 304, 322, 327328, "A legislative practice such as we have here, evidenced not by only occasional instances, but marked by
the movement of a steady stream for a century and a
half of time, goes a long way in the direction of proving
the presence of unassailable ground for the constitutionality of the practice, to be found in the origin and history
of the power involved, or in its nature, or in both
combined."
It may be that the tax and the appropriation of the
proceeds therefrom in the present instance could be
justified as an exercise of the taxing power to provide, in
a broad sense, for the public defense or the general welfare of the United States. We do not pause to consider
that view; for plainly, we think, the law may be sustained
as an act in discharge of a high moral obligation, amounting to a "debt" within the meaning of the Constitution
as it always has been practically construed. The justification for that conclusion has been so fully stated by this
court in the case of Uniled States v. Realty Co., supra,
that further citation becomes unnecessary. "Under the
provisions of the Constitution, (article 1, section 8)," we
there. said, "Congress has power to lay and collect taxes,
etc., 'to pay the debts' of the United States. Having
power to raise money for that purpose, it of course follows
that it has power when the money is raised to appropriate
it to the same object. What are the debts of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

States within the meaning of this constitutional provision?
It is conceded and indeed it cannot be questioned that
the debts are not limited to those which are evidenced by
some written obligation or to those which are otherwise
of a strictly legal character. The term 'debts' includes
those debts or claims which rest upon a merely equitable
or honorary obligation, and which would not be recoverable in a court of law if existing against an individual.
The nation, speaking broadly, owes a 'debt' to an individual when his claim grows out of general principles
of right and justice; when, in other words, it is based
upon considerations of a moral or merely honorary nature,
such as are binding on the conscience or the honor of an
individual, although the debt could obtain no recognition
in a court of law. The power of Congress extends at
least as far as the recognition and payment of claims
against the government which are thus founded. To no
other branch of the government than Congress could any
application be successfully made on the part of the owners
of such claims or debts for the payment thereof. Their
recognition depends solely upon Congress, and whether it
will recognize claims thus founded must be left to the
discretion of that body. Payments to individuals, not of
right or of a merely legal claim, but payments in the
nature of a gratuity, yet having some feature of moral
obligation to support them, have been made by the
government by virtue of acts of Congress, appropriating
the public money, ever since its, foundation. Some of the
acts were based upon considerations of pure charity. A
long list of acts directing payments of the above general
character is appended to the brief of one of the counsel
for the defendants in error. The acts are referred to
not for the purpose of asserting their validity in all cases,
but as evidence of what has been the practice of Congress
since the adoption of the Constitution. See, also, among

CINCINNATI SOAP CO. v. U. S.
308

Opinion of the Court.

other cases in this court, Emerson v. Hall, 13 Pet. 409;
United States v. Price, 116 U. S. 43; Williams v. Heard,
140 U. S. 529. The last cited case arose under an act of
Congress in relation to the Alabama claims."
Later decisions of this court have followed that view.
United States v. Cook, 257 U. S. 523; Marion & R. V. Ry.
Co. v. United States, 270 U. S. 280,.284. The determination of Congress to recognize the moral obligation of the
nation to make an appropriation as a requirement of
justice and honor, is obviously a matter of policy and
discretion not open to judicial review unless in circumstances which here we are not able to find. United States
v. Realty Co., supra, p. 444.
It does not follow that because a federal tax levied for
the express purpose of paying the debts or providing for
the welfare of a state might be invalid (Passenger Cases,
7 How. 283, 446) that such a tax for the uses of a territory
or dependency would likewise be invalid. A state, except
as the Federal Constitution otherwise requires, is supreme
and independent. It has its own government, with full
powers of taxation and full power to appropriate the revenues derived therefrom. A dependency has no government but that of the United States, except in so far as
the United States may permit. The national government
may do for one of its dependencies whatever a state might
do for itself or one of its political subdivisions, since over
such a dependency the nation possesses the sovereign
powers of the general government plus the powers of a
local or a state government in all cases where legislation
is po~zible. Compare Stoutenburgh v. Hennick, 129 U. S.
141, 147; National Bank v. County of Yankton, 101 U. S.
129, 133; Mormon Church v. United States, 136 U. S. 1,
42; Utter v. Franklin, 172 U. S. 416, 423. To say that
the federal government, with such practically unlitnited
powers of legislation in respect of a dependency, is yet

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

.

301 U. S.

powerless to appropriate money for its needs, is to denywhat the foregoing considerations forbid us to deny-that
the United States has, in that regard, the equivalent
power of a state in comparable circumstances.
Third. In the exercise of its plenary powers, the United
States began by governing the Philippine Islands under
the war power. Following the Treaty of Paris, a condition of armed insurrection persisted for some time. In
1900, military government was succeeded by a species of
executive government. The Spooner Amendment to the
Army Appropriation Bill of March 2, 1901, c. 803,' 31
Stat. 895, 910, provided that "All military, civil, and
judicial powers necessary to govern the Philippine
Islands . . . shall, until otherwise provided by Congress,
be vested in such person and persons and shall be exercised in such manner as the President of the United
States shall direct, for the establishment of civil government and for maintaining and protecting the inhabitants
of said islands in the free enjoyment of their liberty,
property, and religion."
This was followed, March 5, 1901, by a cable from the
Secretary of War to the Philippine Commission containing the following laconic order, "Until further orders government will continue under existing instructions and
orders." Report, Secretary of War, 1901, p. 54. The
comprehensive Spooner Amendment, and these instructions and orders, virtually constituted for many months
the charter of government for the Philippine Islands. In
1902, Congress provided for a complete system of civil
government under the original Philippine Organic Act.
By degrees, the active powers of the dependency have
been enlarged, and those of the federal government decreased. But the authority which conferred additional
power might at any time have withdrawn it. This brief
r~sum6 demonstrates both the completeness and flexibil-

CINCINNATI SOAP CO. v. U. S.
308

Opinion of the Court.

ity of the national power over the Philippines, and the
high character of the moral obligations which the possession of such power correlatively imposes. With the extension of power to the islands, our moral obligations may
have grown less; but whether, or to what extent, this has
been the case is a question for the determination of the
political departments of the government.
But it is contended that the passage of the Philippine
Independence Act of March 24, 1934, c. 84, 48 Stat. 456,
and the adoption and approval of a constitution for the
Commonwealth of the Philippine Islands have created
a different situation; and that since then, whatever may
have been the case before, the United States has been
under no duty to make any financial contribution to the
islands. Undoubtedly, these acts have brought about a
profound change in the status of the islands and in their
relations to the United States; but the sovereignty of
the United States has not been, and, for a long time,
may not be, finally withdrawn. So far as the United
States is concerned, the Philippine Islands are not yet
foreign territory. By express provision of the Independence Act, we still retain powers with respect to our trade
relations with the islands, with certain exceptions set
forth particularly in the act. We retain powers with respect to their financial operations and their currency;
and we continue to control their foreign relations. The
power of review by this court over Philippine cases, as
now provided by law, is not only continued, but is extended to all cases involving the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of the Philippine Islands.
Thus, while the power of the United States has been
modified, it has not been abolished. Moral responsibilities well may accompany the process of separation from
this country; and, indeed, they may have been intensified by the new and perplexing problems which the Phil-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

ippine people now will be called upon to meet as one
of its results. The existence and character of the consequent obligations and the extent of the relief, if any,
which should be afforded by the United States in respect
of them, are matters, not for judicial but for Congressional consideration and determination.
It is not improbable that a failure to exercise control
over imports from the Philippines would injuriously affect the industries of this country; and, on the other hand,
an exercise of the power to tax imports might prove injurious to the people of the islands. Congress, in passing
the legislation here under consideration, is not forbidden
to balance these respective probabilities. The tax itself,
it is said, was imposed for the purpose of protecting
certain industries in this country; and it is challenged
on that ground. That Congress has power to levy a tax
with the collateral purpose of thereby protecting the industries of the United States is no longer open to doubt.
Hampton & Co. v. United States, 276 U. S. 394, 411.
But, in exercising the power here with that purpose, Congress may have concluded that it would thereby impose
a hardship upon the Philippines. which it was the moral
duty of Congress to redress so far as possible. In that
situation, we see no constitutional objection to a discharge of the duty by the appropriation of an amount
equivalent to the tax in order to offset the anticipated
burden. Certainly, this court cannot judicially declare
that justice and fair dealing in respect of a people, not yet
completely independent of our authority, does not warrant such action.
Nor do we see any objection to the plan because the
payment of the funds is subject to the condition that the
Philippine Government shall not provide for any subsidy to be paid to the Philippine producers of coconut
oil and the other products named in § 6021/2 of the act.

CINCINNATI SOAP CO. v. U. S.
308

Opinion of the Court.

It is perfectly plain that since Congress may levy the
tax with the collateral purpose of protecting the industries of this country, it may in appropriating the proceeds
put such restriction upon their use as will prevent the
purpose from being nullified. This, we think, is the aim
and the effect of the proviso.
Fourth. The contention that there has been no constitutional appropriation, or that any attempted appropriation is bad, because the particular uses to which the appropriated money is to be put have not been specified,
is without merit. The provision of the Constitution (cl.
7, § 9, Art. I) that "No Money shall be drawn from the
Treasury, but in Consequence of Appropriations made
by Law" was intended as a restriction upon the disbursing authority of the Executive department, and is without significance here. It means simply that np money
can be paid out of the Treasury unless it has been appropriated by an act of Congress. Reeside v. Walker, 11
How..272, 291; 2 Story on the Constitution (4th ed.),
§§ 1348, 1349; 1 Willoughby on the Constitution, § 63, p.
105. We deem it unnecessary to elaborate the point.
The petitions for certiorari, filed in January of the present year, inform us that none of the proceeds of the tax
in question has been transmitted to the Philippine Treasury. Evidently the moneys in the form of a trust fund,
as the government asserts, are still in the Treasury of the
United States. If Congress has not made an appropriation, it may still do so (Head Money Cases, 112 U. S.
580, 599-600); and, all other considerations aside, the
interjection of the question into the present cases is
premature.
The validity of the act disposing of the tax is also attacked as constituting an unlawful delegation of legislative power. That Congress has wide discretion in the
matter of prescribing details of expenditures for which
146212°-3----21

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

it appropriates must, of course, be plain. Appropriation and other acts of Congress are replete with instances
of general appropriations of large amounts, to be allotted
and expended as directed by designated government
agencies. A striking and pertinent example is afforded by
the Act of June 17, 1902, c. 1093, 32 Stat. 388, where all
moneys received from the sale and disposal of public
lands in a large number of states and territories are set
aside as a special fund to be expended for the reclamation
of arid and semi-arid lands within those states and territories. The expenditures are to be made under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior upon such projects
as he may determine to be practicable and advisable. The
constitutionality of this delegation of authority has never
been seriously questioned. See United States v. Hanson,
167 Fed. 881, 884-885. In the present case, the disposition of the proceeds of the tax finds precedent in many
previous acts of Congress providing for payments into
the Philippine Treasury.*
But all this aside, the important point is that Congress
was here dealing with a dependency for which it had
provided a complete system of government to administer
the affairs of a population for whose welfare the United
States was under a high degree of moral responsibility,
as we already have seen. The proceeds of the tax under
consideration are to be paid into the treasury of a government which Congress itself thus created, to be expended
by that government, except as the act otherwise directs,
in accordance with its judgment as to specific necessities.
The congressional power of delegation to such a local
government is and must be as comprehensive as the
*Act of March 8, 1902, c. 140, 32 Stat. 54; Act of August 5, 1909,
c. 6, 36 Stat. 11, 84-85; Act of October 3, 1913, c. 16, 38 Stat. 114,
193; Act of September 21, 1922, c. 356, 42 Stat. 858, 935; Act of June
17, 1930, c. 497, 46 Stat. 590, 686.

CINCINNATI SOAP CO. v. U. S.
308

Opinion of the Court.

needs. Compare United States v. Heinszen & Co., 206
U. S. 370, 384-385. In dealing with the territories,
possessions and dependencies of the United States, this
nation has all the powers of other sovereign nations, and
Congress in legislating is not subject to the same restrictions which are imposed in respect of laws for the United
States considered as a political body of states in union.
Dorr v. United States, 195 U. S. 138, 140, 142.
Congress has power to create a local legislature for the
Philippines; and it has done so. Congress has power to
authorize the legislature to impose taxes for all the lawful needs of the islands, and to appropriate the proceeds
for such uses and in such amounts as the legislature may
determine (compare Leitensdorfer v. Webb, 20 How. 176,
182); and this it has done. Congress has power to appropriate the moneys here in question, and cause them to
be paid from the national treasury into the Treasury of
the Philippine Islands; and for this it has provided. It
would result in a strange anomaly now to hold that Congress had power to devolve upon the Philippine Government the authority to appropriate revenue derived from
local taxation as the government saw fit, but that Congress was without power to confer similar authority in
respect of moneys which lawfully will come into the
Philippine Treasury from the Treasury of the United
States or from other sources apart from taxation. It is
true, as already appears, that the uses to which the money
is to be put are not specified. But in all instances where
funds shall come into the Philippine Treasury, we may
indulge the presumption, in favor of a responsible and
duly-constituted legislative body, that the funds will be
appropriated for public purposes and not for private uses.
Whether the payment to the Philippines of the large
sums of money which will flow from this tax is unwarranted in fact; whether the present or prospective needs

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

301 U. S.

of the islands require it; and other queries directly or
indirectly challenging the wisdom or necessity of the
Congressional action, are all matters, as we repeatedly
have pointed out, with which the courts have nothing to
do. We find the legislation to be free from constitutional
infirmity; and there both our power and responsibility
end.
Judgments affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. BELMONT ET AL.,
EXECUTORS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND, CIRCUIT.

No. 532.

Argued March 4, 1937.-Decided May 3, 1937.

1. A decree of the Soviet Government dissolved a Russian corporation and expropriated all of its assets, including a deposit account
with a bank in New York. Subsequently the President of the
United States recognized, and established diplomatic relations with,
the Soviet Government, and for the purpose of bringing about a
final settlement of claims and counterclaims between that Government and the United States, it was thereupon agreed, among other
things, that the Soviet Government would take no steps to enforce
claims against American nationals, but all such claims, including
the deposit account, were assigned to the United States with the
understanding that the Soviet Government would be notified of all
amounts so realized by the United States. Held that, as between
the United States and the depositary, the deposit, in virtue of the
international compact, belonged to the United States, whatever the
policy of the State of New York touching the enforcement of acts
of confiscation. P. 327.
2. Judicial notice is taken of the facts that coincidentally with the
assignment the President recognized the Soviet Government and
normal diplomatic relations were established between the two
Governments, followed by an exchange of ambassadors. P. 330.
3. The effect of this was to validate, so far as this country is, concerned, all acts of the Soviet Government here involved from the
commencement of its existence. P. 330.

