548

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

301 U. S.

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS, COLLECTOR
OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 837. Argued April 8, 9, 1937.-Decided May 24, 1937.
1. The tax imposed by Title IX of the Social Security Act of
August 14, 1935, upon the employer of labor, described as "an
excise tax with respect to having individuals in his employ,"
and which is measured by prescribed percentages of the total
wages payable by the employer during the calendar year, is
either an "excise," a "duty," or an "impost," within the intent of
Art. I, Sec. 8, of the Constitution, and complies with the requirement of uniformity throughout the United States. Pp. 578,
583.
2. The enjoyment of common rights, such as the right to employ
labor, may constitutionally be taxed. P. 578.
Such taxation was practiced in England and among tba Colonies
before the adoption of the Constitution. P. 579.
3. The fact that the Social Security Act, Title IX, supra, exempts
from the tax employers of less than eight, and does not apply
in respect of agricultural labor, domestic service in private homes,
and some other classes of employment does not render it obnoxious to. the Fifth Amendment. P. 584.
A classification supported by considerations of public policy
and practical convenience, which would be valid under the equal
protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment if adopted by
a State, is lawful, a Jortiori, in the legislation of Congress, since
the Fifth Amendment contains no equal protection clause.
4. The proceeds of the tax imposed on employers by Title IX of
the Social Security Act, supra, go into the Treasury of the
United States without earmark, like internal revenue collections
generally. The taxpayer is entitled to *credit against the federal
tax (up to 90% thereof) what he has contributed during the tax
year under a state unemployment law, provided that the state
law shall have been certified by the Federal Social Security
Board to the Secretary of the Treasury as 'satisfying certain
conditions designed to assure that the state law is genuinely
an unemployment compensation law and that contributions will

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS.
548

Syllabus.

be used solely in the payment of compensation and be protected
against loss after the payment to the State. To these ends, Title
IX provides, among other things, that, to be approved by the
federal Commission, the state law shall direct that all money
received in the state unemployment fund shall immediately upon
such receipt be paid over to the Secretary of the Treasury to
the credit of an "Unemployment Trust Fund," and that all
money withdrawn from the Unemployment Trust Fund by the
state agency shall be used solely in the payment of compensation, exclusive of expenses of administration. The Secretary
is empowered to invest in Government securities any portion of
this fund which, in his judgment, is not required to meet current
withdrawals; and out of it he is directed to pay to any competent state agency such sums as it may duly requisition from
the amount standing to its credit. The taxpayer's credit against
the federal tax. depends on compliance with these statutory conditions; the State, however, is under no contractual obligation to
comply, but at its pleasure may repeal its unemployment law, and
withdraw its deposit from the federal Treasury. Held:
(1) Assuming that the federal tax cannot be treated as a
revenue provision standing apart, but must be tested in combination with the 90% credit provision, the tax is not void as involving an unconstitutional attempt to coerce the States to adopt
unemployment compensation legislation approved by the Federal
Government. P. 585.
(2) The problem of unemployment is national as well as local;
and in promotion of the general welfare moneys of the Nation
may be used to relieve the unemployed and their dependents in
economic depressions and to guard against such disasters. P. 586.
(3) Title IX may be sustained as a co6perative plan whereby
States may be set free to provide unemployment compensation
without subjecting themselves to economic disadvantages resulting from the absence of such provision in other States; and
whereby, through the assumption of such burdens by the States
generally, the financial burden of the Nation due to unemployment may be correspondingly decreased. P. 587.
Duplicated taxes, or burdens that approach them, are hardships
that government, state or national, may properly avoid. P. 589.
(4) Every rebate from a tax, when conditioned upon conduct,
is in some measure a temptation; but motive or temptation is
not equivalent to coercion. P. 589.

550

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Statement of the Case.

301 U. S.

(5) If it be true to say that a power akin to undue influence
may be exerted by the national Government on the States, the
location of the point at which pressure turns into compulsion, and
ceases to be inducement, would be a question of degree,-at times,
perhaps, of fact. The point had not been reached when Alabama
by passing her unemployment compensation law evinced her choice
to have relief administered under laws of her own making, by
agents of her own selection, instead of under federal laws, administered by federal officers. P. 589.
It is one thing to impose a federal tax dependent upon the conduct of the taxpayers, or of the State in which they live, where the
conduct to be stimulated or discouraged is unrelated to the fiscal
need subserved by the tax in its normal operation, or to any other
end legitimately national. It is quite another thing to say that
a tax will be abated upon the doing of an act that will satisfy the
fiscal need, the tax and the alternative being approximate equivalents. In such circumstances, if in no others, inducement or persuasion does not go beyond the bounds of power. P. 591.
5. No surrender of powers essential to the quasi-sovereign existence.
of States is required by § 903 of Title IX of the Social Security
Act, which defines the minimum criteria to which a state compensation system is required to conform if it is to be accepted by
the Social Security Board as the basis for credits against the taxes
laid on employers by that Title; nor by § 904, which deals with
the deposit, investment and withdrawal of the moneys credited.
P. 593.
6. Semble that the States may constitutionally make with Congress
such agreements as do not impair the essence of their statehood.
P. 597.
7. Title III of the Social Security Act, which appropriates no money
but authorizes the making of future appropriations for the purpose
of assisting the States in the administration of their unemployment
compensation laws, is severable from Title IX and its validity is
not in issue. P. 598.
89 F. (2d) 207, affirmed.

This was a review, on certiorari, 300 U. S. 652, of a
judgment of the court below affirming the dismissal of
the complaint in an action for the recovery of money paid
by the plaintiff as a tax under Title IX of the Social
Security Act.

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS.
548

Argument for Petitioner.

Mr. William Logan Martin opened for the petitioner
and Mr. Niel P. Sterne closed. Messrs. Borden Burr
and Walter Bouldin were on the brief with Mr. Martin.*
Summary from the brief:
The federal Act is so lacking in precedent that our
argument is to a large extent devoted to the history of
the legislation in order to show that Congress seized on
the taxing power merely as a pretext to provide this plan
for unemployment. In the history of the Act, from its
inception in the President's message to its final passage,
no important questions were overlooked.
As a device, the two-way system was adopted. No one
could raise the question of the validity of the tax, or challenge an appropriation. And the tax club was sufficient
to drive the States into line. The few standards surrounding the grants would be sufficient to assure control
of the system. If the federal Act should be held unconstitutional, the state Acts would continue to operate.
So the Federal-State system was launched, in preference
to the national system by which the Federal Government
would administer the entire plan, and in preference to
the subsidy plan, by which the Government would collect
all the. taxes and subsidize the States.
Indeed, argued the proponents of the measure, the
Court cannot look into the motive of Congress, provided
the power exercised be constitutional. And certainly,
the imposition of an excise tax is constitutional. But
here the motive is not concealed. It stands out, starkly
revealing the taxing power as a mere pretext.
What reasonable relationship to the taxing pnwer of
Congress can this measure be said to sustain? Tt is not
intended that one dollar of the payroll taxes shall be
used for the general purposes of government. In MagReport of oral arguments may be found in Senate Doc. No. 53,
75th Cong. 1st Sess., p. 61 et seq.
*

552

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Petitioner.

301 U. S.

nano Co. v. Hamilton, 292 U. S. 40, this Court said that
the requirement that a tax be for a public purpose "has
regard to the use which is to be made of the revenue
derived from the tax." The entire tax resulting from
the Child Labor Tax Act, which is part of the Revenue
Act of 1919 (40 Stat. 1057), found its way to the Treasury
to be disbursed for the purposes of government; yet from
the opinion of this Court we may well infer that the provisions of the Act were not naturally and reasonably
adapted to the collection of the tax, but "solely to the
achievement of some other purpose plainly within state
power." 259 U. S. 20, 43. Likewise in the Future Trading Act (42 Stat. 187), the tax went into the Treasury.
In Hill v. Wallace, 259&U. S. 44, this Court said that the
manifest purpose of the Act was to compel boards of trade
to comply with regulations "many of which can have
no relevancy to the collection of the tax at all." Cf.
Linder v. United States, 268 U. S. 5, considering the
Harrison Narcotic Act as amended by the Revenue Act
of 1919 (40 Stat. 1057, 1130). Other cases involving reasonable relationship of Acts to the constitutional power
under which they were claimed to arise are: Newberry v.
United States, 256 U. S. 232, 258, regulating primary
elections for United States senators; Howard v. Illinois
Central R. Co., 207 U. S. 463, 502-503, First Employers'
Liability Act; Keller v. United States, 213 U. S. 138, 144,
immigration law; and Child Labor Case, 247 U. S. 251.
The declaration that invalidity of one part of the Act
shall not affect the remainder is an aid in determining
the legislative intent, "but is not an inexorable command."
RailroadRetirement BGard v. Alton R. Co., 295 U. S. 330,
362. This Court cannot rewrite the statute and give it
an effect altogether different from that sought by the
measure viewed as a whole. Carter v. Carter Coal Co.,
298 U. S. 239.

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS.
548

Counsel for Respondent.

It is obvious from the history of the Act that Congress
was not seeking taxes for the Treasury; it was providing
a plan for unemployment. Without the plan the tax
would not have been imposed. With the plan the entire
Act falls.
Grants to States contained in prior Acts of Congress
furnish no precedent for Title III of this Act.
While Congress lately may have spent billions of dollars for relief, which is the primary burden and duty of
the States, the question of the constitutionality of which
is difficult, if not impossible, to raise in the courts, this
spending cannot now be used to arm Congress with the
power to impose unlawful burdens on the States, in order
to compel them to refill the Federal Treasury and in order
to encourage them to assume their proper burdens in the
future.
It is undeniable that by this legislation the States
were actually compelled to comply with the demands of
Congress.
No grant by Congress is justified if its non-acceptance
results in a penalty. If the StaLes do not comply, their
citizens are compelled to supply millions of dollars to be
used for the administration of agencies in other States
that submit.
The system denies due process of law to employers of
eight or more by requiring the States to impose on this
group a tax for the purpose of paying benefits to individuals who are unemployed.
Mr. Charles E. Wyzanski, Jr., and Assistant Attorney
General Jackson, with whom Attorney General Cummings, Solicitor General Reed, and Messrs. Sewall Key,
A. H. Feller, J. P. Jackson, Arnold Raum, F. A. LeSourd,
Thomas H. Eliot, and Alanson Willcox were on the brief,
for respondent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Oral Argument of Mr. Wyzanski.

301 U. S.

Extracts from oral argument of Mr. Wyzanski:
The tax is collected in exactly the same way as any
other internal revenue tax. It is paid to appropriate
Treasury officials, and there are the usual provisions with
respect to penalties, refunds, and interest. Against the
tax there is allowed a credit for the amount which the
taxpayer pays into a fund created Under state law.
The state unemployment compensation law, in order
to serve as the basis for the credit, must meet certain
standards which are enumerated in § 903A.
The standards describe what is an unemployment compensation law. They are definitional standards.
The amounts which are collected by States as unemployment compensation contributions, and which are
claimed as deductions from the federal tax, are collected
in the first instance by the state collectors, then deposited in the unemployment trust fund in the United States
Treasury, and there held separate and apart from the
regular funds of the Government. Hence it may be said
that none of the money of the Federal Government is
utilized for unemployment compensation. The money
which the States have left on deposit in a trust fund is
utilized for unemployment compensation.
Now, title IX is the only title which impinges on the
petitioner in this case. He claims, however, that title
III is also involved. That title is not an appropriation
statute. It is an authority to appropriate.
The money which is appropriated under that title is
utilized for grants in aid or subventions to States for use
in connection with administration expenses of their unemployment compensation laws. Again, you will notice
that the money is not used directly or indirectly for unemployment-compensation benefits. It is a grant in aid
or a subvention for the administration of an unemployment compensation law.

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS.
548

555

Oral Argument of Mr. Wyzanski.

[Followed an exegesis of economic conditions which
furnished the occasion for this exercise of Congressional
taxing powers.]
No one claims that unemployment compensation is a
complete panacea, or will meet all the needs in periods of
cyclical depression; but at the same time it is pointed
out that if unemployment-compensation systems are set
up promptly there will not be the exhaustion of local
resources in advance of a cyclical depression. So that
when the day of the cyclical depression comes, the individual workers will have funds, States and local governments will have funds, and will not be forced in the face
of a resistant bond market, tax delinquency, and other
factors which are always present in a depression, to raise
the sums which are necessary to take care of the
unemployed.
The federal law does not set up unemployment compensation, but it does establish, as a condition for the
certification of a state law, that the state law shall provide
that benefits shall be paid through public employment
exchanges. Now, if a benefit is paid in that way, as it
is in all countries abroad where there is unemployment
compensation, the consequence is that when the worker
comes to the office, he is offered a job. If he turns down
the job, he does not get a chance to get his benefit. In
other words, you immediately test his willingness to work.
Unemployment compensation is compensation for an
industrial accident, just as workmen's compensation is
compensation for industrial accidents.
The difficulties with the State's going alone were numerous. In the first place, it was felt that if a State
went alone, the economic disadvantage would be material for its own employers. That point was brought out
again and again by the manufacturers' associations and
by various groups who had the interests of the employers
as well as the general public at heart.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Oral Argument of Mr. Wyzanski.

301 U. S.

Moreover, it was felt that if a State went ahead alone
it could not protect itself by an embargo, under the decision of the Court in Baldwin v. Seelig, 294 U. S. 511,
which well illustrates the point. It might not even include within its system, if it were a tax system, employers
engaged in interstate commerce, or employees who were
engaged in interstate commerce. It was also felt that in
this field the technical resources of a single State were
so inadequate that it might be dangerous to proceed
without the benefit of technical advice furnished by some
more wealthy government than the State governments.
To solve this dilemma, three different proposals were
actually brought forward. One suggested that the relief
system of the United States be transmuted into an unemployment-compensation system, and that the Federal
Government, instead of giving out money for relief, give
out money for unemployment compensation on the basis
of the willingness of the worker to take a job.
The second suggestion was that there should be laid a
special tax, the funds taken into the Federal Treasury,
and then given to the States by subventions or grantsin-aid.
The third suggestion was that a special tax be imposed by the Federal Government with a credit against
the tax for the amounts which individual taxpayers had
contributed to State unemployment-compensation funds.
Now, it is the third method that was adopted by Congress, and that method was chosen for reasons of policy
and reasons of law. It was felt that this system gave
to the States in a new field an opportunity to decide
whether or not they wanted an unemployment compensation system, free from the fear of competitive disadvantage. It was recognized that if the States chose to go
ahead they might go ahead in any one of a number of

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS.
548

Oral Argument of Mr. Wyzanski.

ways and serve as laboratories for social experimentation.
It was further felt that these. local systems would promote local initiative, local responsibility, and would result in vigilance with respect to the funds; that is, local
people would watch how local money was being spent.
Quite apart from those considerations of policy, Congress chose this method, for some reasons of law.
Now, the reason in law why this particular method was
chosen was that there was a precedent in the, Revenue
Act of 1926, dealing with the federal estate tax, considered by this Court in Florida v. Mellon, 273 U. S. 12.
[Counsel then discussed the applicability of that decision.]
The tax is laid upon the privilege of receiving
services,-on the "function of employment." Regarded
as a tax upon the receipt of services, it is quite analogous
to the tax on the receipt of property, considered in
Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41. Regarded as a tax
on doing business in a certain form, it is quite analogous
to the corporate tax sustained in Flint v. Stone Tracy
Co., 220 U. S. 107.
There is an English precedent for this tax antedating
the Constitution of the United States. In 1777 Parliament passed a tax levying upon employers of domestic
servants a tax of 21 shillings per domestic servant, as
described in certain categories, and that tax of 1777 was
reenacted in substantially the same form, in 1803, 1812,
1853, and 1869, and is still on the books in England;
and the tax is specifically denominated an excise tax, in
some of those statutes.
This tax satisfied the constitutional canon of uniformity as laid down in Florida v. Mellon, 273 U. S. 12; Poe
v. Seaborn, 282 U. S. 101; and Knowlton v. Moore, 178
U. S. 41.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Oral Argument of Mr. Wyzanski.

301 U. S.

The tax on its face has all the indicia of a tax, and as
it raises substantial revenue, it should be sustained as a
revenue measure without further inquiry. All the cases,
from Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, to the Sonzinsky
case, 300 U. S. 506, support this position. if an inquiry
is made into the policies of this tax, they are reasonable,
relate to the power conferred, and have been executed in
the manner provided in Art. I, § 8, c. 1, of the Constitution. Congress had two policies in mind, one of avoiding
double taxation in a State which by a law was taxing
employers, and this is a policy which is reasonably related
to this constitutional provision. Double taxation was
indeed referred to by Hamilton, in the thirty-third paper
in the Federalist, and also by Edmund Randolph in the
Virginia constitutional convention. Each said that they
expected the Union would so apply its taxes as not to
double up on the same subject which had been selected,
or might be selected, by a State. Cf. Henneford v. Silas
Mason Co., 300 U. S. 577; Florida v. Mellon, 273 U. S.
12.
The other policy, related to the taxing and spending
powers, which supports this legislation, concerns the general welfare. The power granted is the power "to tax
for the purpose of providing funds for payment of the
Nation's debts and making provision for the general
welfare." Butler case. "Making provision" means to
make a financial provision, and that is what this statute
does.
Unemployment compensation will meet the breakdown which takes place in the family of the individual
worker who is unemployed, the cumulative effect of unemployment upon his health and upon the health of his
family. The effect of unemployment upon crime and
vagrancy is obvious; so is the effect upon the taxpayer.

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS.
548

Oral Argument of Mr. Wyzanski.

West Coast Hotel Co. v. Parrish,300 U. S. 379, 399. The
Federal Government is still spending vast sums for relief, and we say that since this Act will operate to relieve
the drain upon the Federal Treasury, and will provide
funds for. the general welfare, it is reasonably related
to the policies and purposes of the taxing clause.
But the question may be raised, Can these policies be
carried out by a tax and credit? To that we cite as an
answer Florida v. Mellon, for there the policies which
Congress had in mind were carried out by a tax and
credit substantially like the one here involved, and a tax
and credit which was in the mind of Congress when this
legislation was enacted.
When the Constitution was adopted the framers had
in mind three different methods of raising revenue for
the general welfare of the United States. The first was
direct federal taxation collected by federal officers. The
second was that the Federal Government lay the tax
but the collection be by the state officers. The third
method is that the States raise the revenue for the general welfare of the United States. That method is described by Hamilton. Federalist No. 36. Oliver Ellsworth and Roger Sherman pointed out that the collecting
authority of the United States need not be exercised if
each State will furnish its quota.
This method of which I am speaking was in fact utilized by Congress in the amendment which was passed on
May 13, 1862, to the Act of Aug. 5, 1861, providing for
direct taxes.
The direct tax is, of course, a tax upon the individual.
But the 1862 amendment to the 1861 direct tax provided
that the direct tax upon the individual might be assumed
by the State in which he lived, and might be paid by the

560

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Oral Argument of Mr. Wyzanski.

301 U. S.

State, not to the Treasury directly but by payments
toward raising troops and supplying troops with their
equipment-in other words, as a credit against individual
direct taxes, there was allowed the amount which the
State expended for the purpose of enrolling and supplying troops. That is very similar to this situation where,
as a credit against an individual person's tax, there is
al]Qwed the amount which he contributes to the State for
unemployment compensation,, which takes care of the
general welfare of the United States.
We point out that the Constitution does not say who
shall provide for the general welfare. Of course, it means
that funds shall be provided for the general welfare, but
it does not say that the United States shall provide the
funds, and there is no more reason for reading in the
words "United States" in that clause than there was in
Massachusettsv. Mellon for reading in a restriction which
would have required the application of the funds to be by
the United States.
I turn now from that first major inquiry as to the power
here exercised, to the question whether the exercise of
the power meets the standards laid down in the Fifth
Amendment, and I begin by pointing out that this Court
has said, in Magnano v. Hamilton, 292 U. S. 40, and at
other times, that the Fifth Amendment is rarely applied
to restrain the exercise of the- federal taxing power. It
has been suggested that there are three different attacks
which might be made upon this tax under the Fifth
Amendment. First, it is said it is taking money from
one group and giving it to another. As a matter of fact,
t.his tax does not work that way at all. This tax collects
money from individuals and puts. it into the Federal
Treasury, to be used for any purpose whatsoever. Moreover, even if you take into account the 90 per cent. credit,
and say that all the money raised is used to pay for those
who are out of jobs, to pay.benefits to them, we say that
that payment is proper under the due process clause.

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS.
548

Oral Argument of Mr. Wyzanski.

It is said in the second place that the due process clause
of the Fifth Amendment is violated by the selections of
the tax. Flint v. Stone Tracy Co. lays down the familiar
rule that the Federal Government has a large measure of
choice with respect to selection of taxable subjects. It
is said, however, that we had no right to select employers.
of eight or more, while leaving employers of less than
eight untaxed. Jeffrey Mfg. Co. v. Blagg, 235 U. S. 571,
involved the Ohio Workmen's Compensation Act, which
applied only to employers of five or more, and Quong
Wing v. Kirkendall, 223 U. S. 59, related to laundry
workers where more than two were employed. St. Louis
Consolidated Coal Co. v. Illinois, 185 U. S. 203, related
to regulation of mines where more than five were involved. The power of classification which exists with
respect to taxes is certainly broader than that which
exists with respect to the police power, as Your Honors
have pointed out in Connallyv. General Construction Co.,
269 U. S. 385. But quite apart from that general doctrine, I refer to a table which will be found at page 66 of
our brief, which shows that unemployment occurs to a
greater extent in large than in small establishments. In
establishments where 1 to 20 are employed the figures
show that the man-hours worked fell off only about 3 per
cent.; whereas in those which employed from 20 to 100
workers they fell off some 13.8 per cent. and they fell
off even more in establishments larger than 100. Moreover,. there are certain administrative reasons which
would have justified taxing employers of eight or more
and not taxing employers of less than eight. The bookkeeping records and what not would be very expensive
both for the Treasury and for the person affected.
The other exemptions from the tax are not really
attacked by those who oppose us in the cases at bar.
The 90 pear cent. credit is a valid classification on several
grounds, first, to avoid double taxation; second, valid
3,46212--37-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Oral Argument of Mr. Jackson.

301 U. S.

classification to distinguish between those who provide
funds for the general welfare of the United States and
others who leave the Government in the predicament in
which it has found itself in the last 3 years.
Extracts from oral argument of Assistant Attorney
General Jackson:
The challenge of unemployment is being answered at
this time by a combination of state and federal power.
.Under this plan, the State is bringing to the solution of
the problem its taxing power and whatever of local regulatory power it may require, subject, of course, to its
Constitution and to the Fourteenth Amendment. The
Federal Government is bringing to bear upon the same
problem its taxing power and its spending power. We
do not claim that new powers exist by virtue of the conditions which Mr. Wyzanski has detailed, or that this is
an emergency-power matter. We claim that the Federal
Government and the state governments are co6perating
by each contributing what it may of its own power to
the solution of a common problem.
Although the combination in this particular act is new,
the devices or methods which are used here are devices
and methods which separately have been approved by
this Court. The devices used by the Federal Government
consist, first, of a grant in aid, to pay the States the cost
of administration of unemployment compensation laws.
That we think was approved in Massachusetts v. Mellon.
A second device is the tax with a credit, a large credit, a
credit designed- to enable the States to free themselves
of the competition of neighbors, and to go ahead with
their own plans; and that device for that purpose we
think was approved in Floridav. Mellon.
The relation of this tax to the appropriation is entirely
unestablished, either by the Act itself or by the facts in
the case. In the first place, the appropriation under § 301

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS.
548

Oral Argument of Mr. Jackson.

if it be construed as an appropriation, began before the
tax was payable. The appropriation is not measured by
the proceeds of the tax. The tax is not earmarked for
this purpose. There is no equivalence between the
amounts set aside by this section and the proceeds of the
tax.

Now, it is apparent on the very face of it that there
could not be an equivalence, because the more state laws
are enacted the more money would have to be expended
under § 301 for aid in their administration. But the
more state laws are enacted the less revenue would be
produced, because of the effects of the credit. The maximum productivity of the federal tax would be attained
if no State enacted a compensation law. The maximum
expenditure would be if all States enacted them; so that
there is no equivalence and no relationship.
This section is by the provisions of the Act made separable, and we think that the separability presumed from
this section of the Act is not overcome, as it was in the
Butler case; by any relation between the tax and the
appropriation objects. So, it is our position that there
is no standing to challenge this grant-in-aid, except as
the whole operation of the Act including the grant-in-aid
may be considered here under the Tenth Amendment.
But, if the complaint be entertained, we think the
purpose of spending is clearly within the general welfare,
as has been pointed out, and that the form of spending
by the grant-in-aid is validated by history, §ince it has
been repeatedly resorted to and resorted to upon condition.
Coming to the tax credit and conditions found in
§ 902, the credit being the second device in this Act
which operates, as it is claimed, on the federal and state
relationship.
Unemployment is a concern of the Federal Government, but if Your Honors do not go along with us upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Oral Argument of Mr. Jackson.

301 U. S.

that argument, there is still a right to give a credit, even
though the purpose served by that credit is not a federal
purpose. Always there has been the right in the adjustment of a tax structure to recognize equities, to recognize
the extent to which the taxpayer has assumed and performed other obligations, the extent to which he has contributed to purposes whioh were wholly unrelated to the
Federal Government. [Instancing the credit considered
in Floridav. Mellon, 273 U. S. 12; and various deductions
and exemptions allowed in general tax laws.]
The next question is whether it may lay down conditions upon which that credit will be granted. I take it
that if the Government has a right to give a man a credit
it has a right to see that that credit is a genuine credit
for the purpose intended. This redit goes beyond those
credits which serve purely personal purposes. - It serves
the fiscal purpose of the Treasury of the United States.
This person Who has contributed 90 per cent. of this tax
to the unemployment fund of his State has to that extent relieved the Federal Government of what is assumed
to be an obligation to take up certain duties, when unemployment passes the capacity of the State to handle it.
And, if it is to serve such a purpose, we clearly have the
right to lay down the tests which will see that the unemployment purpose has been honestly served.
Provision 1, which must be contained in the state law,
is that all compensation is to be paid through public
employment offices in the State, or such other agencies
as the board may approve. The purpose of that provision is to stop the "cracker-barrel loafer," who has been
referred to here, from getting relief or getting a dole -in
the form of elief. The purpose of that provision is to
assure that when the credit is taken against federal tax
the money which the Federal Government loses goes to
people who are in good faith out of employment.

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS.
548

Oral Argument of Mr. Jackson.

It was conceived by Congress that if these unemployment reserves were built up in the separate state treasuries, and we then faced another period of unemployment, and all of those state treasuries were required to
rush to liquidation within a short period, it would not
only produce great loss to the States, but it would produce also a great dislocation to our entire economy. It
was desired to place these reserves in a position where
they would always be liquid and available, in a position
where the States would suffer no loss through liquidation,
and where they could be liquidated in an orderly fashion
by the Treasury, with the aid of the Federal Reserve
System, and in a way that would not disturb the economy
of the United States.
Some of the rights of individuals, or federal Government, or of the state governments, are absolute and precisely measured rights, and as due process is a test by
which the individual rights may be measured (Nebbia v.
New York, 291 U. S.502), so the Tenth Amendment has
to be interpreted in the light of a reasonable consideration
of those things which the state and federal governments
are attempting to do. I address my argument to the reasonableness of the exercise of power undertaken in this
particular case, to show that it is not an attempt to invade
the powers of the State, to undertake to regulate its
industry, or to do those things which have been generally
held to be prohibited ends; because if by reasonable
examination of the statutes in question 'the end is found
to be prohibited, then it has been held by this Court that
all roads to it are closed.
In the first place it should be observed that in this
federal Act there is no compulsion upon the State to
adopt any kind of legislation whatever. This law does
not operate upon the States. This law operates upon
the taxpayers who are citizens of the United States and

566

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Oral Argument of Mr. Jackson.

301 U. S.

subject to its taxation. It operates by giving them a
credit, provided those taxpayers have paid to the State
certain sums of money. It is purely fiscal and not regulatory in its operation. While the operation of the tax
may depend upon an employer-employee relationship
existing, there are no obligations created as between employer and~employee, no-rights created and none denied.
The scheme sets up no competition with the industry of
the State, no regulation of the industry of the State. The
State is entirely free to. take any of the known types of
workable compensation funds, and still obtain its credit.
The coverage of the law that the State shall pass is to be
determined by itself.
The benefits are entirely within the control of the
State, without impairing its credit.
These conditions are entirely separable from the taxing
provisions. I shall not go into detail except to point out
that the tax and the credit may stand and operate even
though these conditions be found to be outside the power
of the Government to impose.
Furthermore, any one of these conditions is separable
from all of the others, and it is contended in our brief
that the tax and the credit may stand even if some of the
conditions be found to step beyond the domain properly
occupied by the Federal Government.
The question remains whether, in this distribution of
activities between the state and the federal Governments,
even if we are within the technical word of the Constitution, there has been such a plan attempted as will upset
and unbalance our dual form of government. The problem of unemployment faced locally, as well as by the
Federal Government, and the distress and commercial demoralization due to it, were not confined to any one of
our sovereignties. These two sovereignties, the State
and Nation, have sought under this plan, and in the case
before Your Honors, to lay their powers together so that

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS.
548

Oral Argument of Mr. Jackson.

the powers of the two may be equal to the magnitude
of this problem. So far as the balance of power between
State and Federal Government is concerned, our adversaries would maintain that balance by denying both sovereignties the right to deal with this problem; and we
submit that that is not the answer, and that it is unthinkable, in the face of a problem which threatened the
peace and solvency of local government, of the state governments, and of national Government, that there is
power nowhere in our system to deal with it.
Clearly both sovereignties have an interest in this problem, an overlapping interest perhaps. The Federal Government surely has an interest in maintaining its national economy and its social order. It has the right to
take measures to protect its Treasury from unusual
drains. It has a right to prepare for the unemployment'
problem before it occurs, as well as to appropriate money
to deal with it afterward.
The Federal Government seeks a solution of the problem of unemployment; and just what the solution shall
be is not so material, provided the problem is solved.
But the States have separate interests in this problem.
Therefore the two sovereignties may concur, as we see it,.
in reaching a remedy.
But the State and Federal Governments each have their
powers and disabilities. The Federal Government is an
economic as well as a political unit. It may control its
frontiers, and if it burdens an industry it may also prote'ct it against outside competition. It can lay an equal
and not discriminatory duty upon all of its citizens, in
the form of a tax law, and it may lay such a duty that
it may be passed on and ultimately be absorbed by all
of the consuming public, as I suspect this tax will be.
The States, on the other hand, have decided limitations upon their competency to deal with this problem.
They are political but' not economic units. They may

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Oral Argument of Mr. Sterne.

301 U. S.

not control their marxet places against competition from
outside their own borders, as this Court has held. They
may burden their industries with certain regulations, but
they may not protect them against the outside competitor, and the freedom of the States in some of these economic matters is the freedom to commit industrial
suicide.
Therefore each of these sovereignties has brought to
this problem what it has of power-the State to supply
local administration, local control, local burdens and benefits, and local regulations-the Federal Government to
lay a uniform tax with a credit which will assure to the
citizens of a State that its citizens will not lose their
industries by virtue of its effort to meet this problem in
a humane and proper way.
Extracts from oral argument of Mr. Sterne.
The situation confronting these States is that unless
they themselves levy a tax involving large sums of
money, and turn those sums over to the unemployed,
they see the Federal Government take out of the State
the same amount-and I say "the same amount" because
I find a compensating equation in the one-tenth.
In realistic terms, in Alabama it means this: In 1929
the pay rolls subject to tax under the federal plan
amounted to something over $333,000,000, which means
close to $10,000,000 of taxes levied by the Federal Government, with $9,000,000 which we can get back for the
unemployed if certain local functions of the State of Alabama are committed to the Government of the United
States. Now, in 1929, a period of high return in Alabama, the total revenues of the State were something under $40,000,000, so that the degree and the
weight of the compulsion may be evaluated when it is
seen that an amount equal to one-fourth of the total
revenue of the State of Alabama is taken out of the State

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS.
548

Oral Argument of Mr. Sterne.

and can be returned to the State not merely for spending, but to the employees if, and only if, certain state
functions are abandoned or placed within the control of
the Federal Government. And that in the face of repeated adjudications of this Court that in no way can
the Federal Government acquire, by treaty, consent,
submission, petition, or what not, any functon of a State.
Floridav. Mellon, 273 U. S. 12, involved only an abandonment by one sovereign of a recognized field of taxation in which the evil of double taxation existed.
In the present situation there is neither historical, nor
do I believe real, double taxation, nor threat nor possibility of double taxation. So far as my researches have
enabled me to ascertain, there has been no recognized
field of taxation as to pay rolls, in the United States,
and the situation here presented apparently is that the
Federal Government creates the evil in order to cure it,
and then claims that it is acting within some constitutional grant of power in curing an evil of duplicity of
taxation.
The second distinguishing characteristic, as I see it, is
that in Florida v. Mellon there was a mere exit of the
dominant sovereign-that was the end, in itself, its exit.
Here, the exit is made the means of a most massive incursion into the state realm. The compulsion of the tax
seems manifest. It is suggested that there was an eagerness for this tax on the part of the States, and that that
is evidenced by the fact that many bills had been introduced in other States, which failed of passage for fear
of economic competitive disadvantage. I do not know
what weight can be attached to the fact that many bills
were introduced in the legislature, but it seems to me
that a countervailing circumstance of no little significance
is this: That when these qualifying statutes were enacted,
35 of the 43 enacting States .provided an automatic exit.

570

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Oral Argument of Mr. Sterne.

301 U. S.

They enacte provisions that if and when the federal
Act failed, instantly the state act should cease to operate.
There can be no such thing as a legitimate compulsion
laid upon a State by the Federal Government. The fact
that a reasonable end is sought, that a most admirable
plan for relieving unemployment may have been evoked,
would seem in no way to derogate from the proposition
that the Federal Government must be confined to its
constitutional bounds and not be permitted to make the
taxing power an instrumentality of compulsion against
a State.
The argument advanced in behalf of the Government
appears to suggest that the moneys raised by the 90 per
cent. should really be considered as having their origin
in the Federal Government and as being moneys of the
Federal Government. That is not our conception of the
true situation. But if it be-if that alternative be a correct one-then it would seem that the taxing measure
must -fail immediately, for the undeniable reason that
whatever may be the power of Congress to expropriate
from class to class in pursuance of regulatory legislation,
the taxing power cannot be so used; and surely it will
never be contended by anyone, that it was within the
purview of congressional power to regulate the relation
of employer and employee. Yet only as an incident of
regulation, as we see it, can there be a taxation of the
employer for the benefit of the employed.
[Qoupnsel then argued that to tax employers for the
benefit of unemployed workmen, not indigent, is a taking of private property for a private use-Loan Ass'n v.
Topeka, 20 Wall. 655-saying this "with full recognition
of the fact that the problem of unemployment very
largely coincides with the problem of indigency, and that
the average workman out of employment long enough to
qualify for benefits under any system is probably qualified fQr indigent relief, but the men who have accumu-

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS.
548

Oral Argument of Mr. Sterne.

lated a sufficient competency to tide over several periods
of compensable idleness under any of these plans are not
by any means exceptional."]
If, under the guise of forestalling a future demand, the
Federal Government may take ov6r any local concerns
of the State, I confess I can see no limit.
I do not believe that under our form of government
the Federal Government is empowered ever to dispense direct relief, except in the face of an immediately
existing, imperious necessity. It is only as the result of a
breakdown of all else and a threat to the existence of the
Government itself and its people, that.that power comes
into existence, ex necessitate rei; and therefore it cannot
be anticipated or provided against further than by the
Federal Government, if it sees fit, accumulating a Treasurer's reserve for that purpose.
There is no such thing as a preparedness that in any
way extends the power of the Federal Government.
It is not my understanding that the general welfare
for which fiscal provision may be made through the taxing power is the general welfare of the inhabitants of the
United States. It would seem to me unthinkable that,
meaning the inhabitants of the United States, the
Founders spoke of the welfare of the United States in the
selfsame words in which they spoke of paying the debts
of the United States.
We submit that Title IX is unworkable without Title
III, and Title III is unworkable without Title IX. Since
we are forbidden to use for the purpose of administration
any part of the fund which is raised for the relief, IX
cannot operate without III, and certainly it was never
intended to operate without III, if the statute and the
plan are seen as a whole and not merely its severed parts.
Now, there is one question of construction of this statute, wherein we differ with opposing counsel, and that is as
to whether, under the:statute as drawn, the State has the

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Oral Argument of Mr. Sterne.

301 U. S.

right to withdraw the funds and use them for other purposes. It is required as a condition of our receiving administrative expenses and as a condition of our qualifying
for the credit that we stipulate in our law that we will
withdraw funds only for benefit payments, and while
there is a provision that the Federal Government will
honor the requisition of the State, it is qualified by saying that it must be duly requisitioned.
The suggestion is made, that as long as they are not
regulating anything in Alabama and in the other States,
they must not be held to have intruded themselves into
State affairs, that the Butler case is not applicable, because there the Federal Government regulated the sowing of crops. Here they say there is no regulationthey are just conditioning the grant; but the vice of that
and the alternative which confronts them, as we see it,
is this: If this is a grant of federal funds, it is an expropriative taxation, and, there being no power of regulation, is void. If it is our own funds, then they have
no power to require us to do anything with them.
I would have assumed that workmen's compensationand by "workmen's compensation" we all mean compensation for injuries-would be as classical an instance
of a matter of purely local concern as could be conceived
of. But if this is valid legislation, then I see no inhibition against Congress enacting a 3-, 6-, 9-, or 10-per cent.
pay-roll tax, or whatever amount it may consider necessary, and confronting us with the alternative of seeing
huge sums drained out of Alabama, or installing a system
of workmen's compensation devised in Washington,
hedged around with such limitations as the authors here
may consider necessary to make it what they would
call a bona-fide, genuine workmen's compensation system.
. I visualize this in the field of minimum wages for
women,, that the Federal Government need not leave it

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS.
548

Opinion of the Court.

to the States to solve that problem, but, by heavy tax
and credit provisions, perchance it may require that we
in Alabama, as a condition of money remaining in Alabama, shall provide a minimum-wage fund to be administered under such remnants of liberty as the
minimum-wage board of the Federal Government may
see fit to leave to us.
Messrs. Edward F. McClennen and Jacob J. Kaplan
filed a brief as amici curiae, challeiiging the validity of the
Act.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO delivered the opinion of the Court.

The validity of the tax imposed, by the Social Security
Act on employers of eight or more is here to be determined.
Petitioner, an Alabama corporation, paid a tax in accordance with the statute, filed a claim for refund with
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, and sued to recover the payment ($46.14), asserting a conflict between
the statute and the Constitution of the United States.
Upon demurrer the District Court gave judgment for the
defendant dismissing the complaint, and the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit affirmed. 89 F. (2d) 207.
The decision is in accord with judgments of the Supreme
Judicial Court of Massachusetts (Howes Brothers Co. v.
Massachusetts Unemployment Compensation Comm'n,
December 30, 1936, 5 N. E. (2d) 720), the Supreme Court
of California (Gillum v. Johnson, 7 Cal..(2d) 744; 62 P.
(2d) 1037), and the Supreme Court of Alabama (Beeland
Wholesale Co. v. Kaufman, 174 So. 516). It is in conflict
with a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
First Circuit, from which one judge dissented. Davis v.
Boston & Maine R. Co., 89 F. (2d) 368. An important
question of constitutional law being involved, we granted
certiorari.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

The Social Security Act (Act of August 14, 1935, c. 531,
49 Stat. 620, 42 U. S. C., c. 7 (Supp.)) is divided into
eleven separate titles, of which only Titles IX and III
are so related to this case as to stand in need of summary.
The caption of Title IX is " Tax on Employers of Eight
or More." Every employer (with stated exceptions) is
to pay for each calendar year "an excise tax, with respect
to having individuals in his employ," the tax to be
measured by prescribed percentages of the total wages
payable by the employer during the calendar year with
respect to such employment. § 901. One is not, however,
an "employer" within the meaning of the act unless he
employs eight persons or more. § 907 (a). There are
also other limitations of minor importance. The term
"employment" too has its special definition, excluding
agricultural labor, domestic service in a private home and
some other smaller classes. § 907 (c). The tax begins
with the year 1936, and is payable for the first time on
January 31, 1937. During the calendar year 1936 the
'rate is to be one per cent, during 1937 two per cent, and
three per cent thereafter. The proceeds, when collected,
go into the Treasury of the United States like internalrevenue collections generally. § 905 (a). They are not
earmarked in any way. In certain circumstances, however, credits are allowable. § 902. If the taxpayer has
made contributions to an unemployment fund under a
state law, he may credit such contributions against the
federal tax, providled, however, that the total credit allowed to any taxpayer shall not exceed 90 per centum of
the tax against which it is credited, and provided also
that the state law shall have been certified to the Secretary of the Treasury by the Social Security Board as
satisfying certain minimum criteria. § 902. The provisions of § 903 defining those criteria are stated in the

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS.
548

Opinion of the Court.

margin.' Some of the conditions thus attached to the
allowance of a credit are designed to give assurance that
the state unemployment compensation law shall be one in
substance as well as name. Others are designed to give
assurance that the contributions shall be protected against
loss after payment to the state. To this last end there
'See. 903. (a) The Social Security Board shall approve any State
law submitted to it, within thirty days of such submission, which it
finds provides that(1) All compensation is to be paid through public employment
offices in the State or such other agencies as the Board may approve:
(2) No compensation shall be payable with respect to any day of
unemployment occurring within two years after the first day of the
first period with respect to which contributions are required;
(3) All money received in the unemployment fund shall immediately upon such receipt be paid over to the Secretary of the Treasury
to the credit of the Unemployment Trust Fund established by
Section 904;
(4) All money withdrawn from the Unemployment Trust Fund by
the State agency shall be used solely in the payment of compensation,
exclusive of expenses of administration;
(5) Compensation shall not be denied in such State to any otherwise eligible individual for refusing to accept new work under any
of the following conditions: (A) If the position offered is vacant due
directly to a strike, lockout, or other labor dispute; (B) if the wages,
hours, or other conditions of the work offered are substantially less
favorable to the individual than those prevailing for similar work in
the locality; (C) if as a condition of being employed the individual
would be required to join a company union or to resign from or
refrain from joining any bona fide labor organization;
(6) All the rights, privileges, or immunities conferred by such law
or by acts done pursuant thereto shall exist subject to the power of
the legislature to amend or repeal such law at any time.
The Board shall, upon approving such law, notify the Governor of
the State of its approval.
(b) On December 31 in each taxable year the Board shall certify
to the Secretary of the Treasury each State whose law it his previously approved, except that it shall not certify any State which,
after reasonable notice and opportunity for hearing to the State

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U, S.

are provisions that before a state law shall have the approval of the Board it must direct that the contributions
to the state fund be paid over immediately to the Secretary of the Treasury-to the credit of the "Unemployment
Trust Fund." Section 904 establishing this fund is quoted
below.2 For the moment it is enough to say that the
Fund is to be held by the Secretary of the Treasury, who
is to invest in government securities any portion not required in his judgment to meet current withdrawals. He
is authorized and directed to pay out of the Fund to any
competent state agency such sums as it may duly requisition from the ariount standing to its credit. § 904 (f).
agency, the Board finds has changed its law so that it no longer
contains the provisions specified in subsection (a) or has with respect
to such taxable year failed to comply substantially with any such
provision.

(c) If, at any time during the taxable year, the Board has reason
to believe that a State whose law it has previously approved, may not
be certified under subsection (b), it shall promptly so notify the
Governor of such State.
2Sec. 904. (a) There is hereby established in the Treasury of the
United States a trust fund to be known as the "Unemployment Trust
Fund," hereinafter in this title called the "Fund." The Secretary of
the Treasury is authorized and directed to receive and hold in the
Fund all moneys deposited therein by a State agency from a State
unemployment fund. Such deposit may be made directly with the
Secretary of the Treasury or with any Federal reserve bank or member bank of the Federal Reserve System designated by him for such
purpose.
(b) It shall be the duty of the Secretary of the Treasury to invest
such portion of the Fund as is not, in his judgment, required to meet
current withdrawals. Such investment may be made only in interestbearing obligations of the United States or in obligations guaranteed
as to both principal and interest, by the United States. For such
purpose such obligations may be acquired (1) on original issue at par,
or (2) by purchase of outstanding obligations at the market prize.
The purposes for which obligations of the United States may be
issued under the Second Liberty Bond Act, as amended, are hereby
extended to authorize the issuance at par of special obligations exclusively to the Fund. Such special obligations shall bear interest at a

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS.
548

Opinion of the Court.

Title III, which is also challenged as invalid, has the
caption "Grants to States for Unemployment Compensation Administration." Under this title, certain sums
of money are "authorized to be appropriated" for the
purpose of assisting the states in the administration of
their unemployment compensation laws, the maximum
for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1936 to be $4,000,000,
and $49,000,000 for each fiscal year thereafter. § 301.
No present appropriation is made to the extent of a single
dollar. All that the title does is to authorize future appropriations. Actually only $2,250,000 of the $4,000,000
authorized was appropriated for 1936 (Act of Feb. 11,
rate equal to the average rate of interest, computed as of the end of
the calendar month next preceding the date of such issue, borne by
all interest-bearing obligations of the United States then forming part
of the public debt; except that where such average rate is not a multiple of one-eighth of 1 per centum, the rate of interest of such special
obligations shall be the multiple of one-eighth of 1 per centum next
lower than such average rate. Obligations other than such special
obligations may be acquired for the Fund only on such terms as to
provide an investment yield not less than the yield which would be
required in the case of special obligations if issued to the Fund upon
the date of such acquisition.
(c) Any obligations acquired by the Fund (except special obligations issued exclusively to the Fund) may be sold at the market price,
and such special obligations may be redeemed at par plus accrued
interest.
(d) The interest on, and the proceeds from the sale or redemption
of, any obligations held in the Fund shall be credited to and form a
part of the Fund.
(e) The Fund shall be invested as a single fund, but the Secretary
of the Treasury shall maintain a separate book account for each
State agency and shall credit quarterly on March 31, June 30,
September 30, and December 31, of each year, to each account, on
the basis of the average daily balance of such account, a proportionate
part of the earnings of the Fund for the quarter ending on such date.
(f) The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed to
pay out of the Fund to any State agency such amount as it may
duly requisition, not exceeding the amount standing to the account
of such State agency at the time of such payment.
146212°-37-37

578

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

1936, c. 49, 49 Stat. 1109, 1113) and only $29,000,000 of
the $49,000,000 authorized for the following year. Act
of June 22, 1936, c. 689, 49 Stat. 1597, 1605. The appropriations when made were not specifically out of the
proceeds of the employment tax, but out of any moneys
in the Treasury. Other sections of the title prescribe
the method by which the payments are to be made to
the state (§ 302) and also certain conditions to be established to the satisfaction of the Social Security Board
before certifying the propriety of a payment to the Secretary of the Treasury. § 303. They are designed to
give. assurance to the Federal Government that the
moneys granted by it will not be expended for purposes
alien to the grant, and will be used in the administration
of genuine unemployment compensation laws.
The assault on the statute proceeds on an extended
front. Its assailants take the ground that the tax is
not an excise; that it is not uniform throughout the
United States as excises are required to be; that its exceptions are so many and arbitrary as to violate the Fifth
Amendment; that its purpose was not revenue, but an
unlawful invasion of the reserved powers of the states;
and that the states in submitting to it have yielded to
coercion and have abandoned governmental functions
which they are not permitted to surrender.
The objections will be considered seriatim with such
further explanation as may be necessary to make their
meaning clear.
First. The tax, which is described in the statute as an
excise, is laid with uniformity throughout the United
States as a duty, an impost or an excise upon the relation
of employment.
1. We are told that the relation of employment is one
so essential to the pursuit of happiness that it may not
be burdened with a tax. Appeal is made to history.
From the precedents of colonial days we are supplied with

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS.
548

579

Opinion of the Court.

illustrations of excises common in the colonies. They
are said to have been bound up with the enjoyment of
particular commodities. Appeal is also made to principle
or the analysis of concepts. An excise, we are told, imports a tax upon a privilege; employment, it is said, is
a right, not a privilege, from which it follows that employment is not subject to an excise. Neither the one
appeal nor the other leads to the desired goal.
As to the argument from history: Dtoubtless there were
many excises in colonial days and later that were associated, more or less intimately, with the enjoyment or the
use of property. This would not prove, even if no others
were then known, that the forms then accepted were not
subject to enlargement. Cf. Pensacola Telegraph Co. v.
Western Union, 96 U. S. 1, 9; In re Debs, .158 U.'S. 564,
591; South Carolinav. United States, 199 U. S. 437, 448,
449. But in truth other excises were known, and known
since early times. Thus in 1695 (6 & 7 Win. III, c. 6),
Parliament passed an act which granted "to His Majesty
certain Rates. and Duties upon Marriage, Births and
Burials," all for the purpose of "carrying on the War
against France with igour." See Opinion of the Justices,
196 Mass, 603, 609; 85 N. E. 545. No commodity was
affected there. The industry of counsel has supplied us
with an apter illustration where the tax was not different
in substance from the one now challenged as invalid. In
1777, before our Constitutional Convention, Parliament
laid upon employers an annual "duty" of 21 shillings for
"every male Servant" employed in stated forms of work.'
" The list of 'services is comprehensive. It included: "Maitre
d'Hotel, House-steward, Master of the Horse, Groom of the Chamber,
Valet de Chambre, Butler, Under-butler, Clerk of the Kitchen, Confectioner, Cook, House-porter, Footman, Running-footman, Coachman, Groom, Postillion, Stable-boy, and the respective Helpers in
the Stables of such Coachman, Groom, or Postillion, or in the Capacity of Gardener (not being-a Day-labourer), Park-keeper, Gamekeeper, Huntsman, Whipper-in
"

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

Revenue Act of 1777, 17 George III, c. 39. 4 The point is
made as a distinction that a tax upon the use of male servants was thought of as a tax upon a luxury. Davis v.
Boston & Maine R. Co., supra. It did not touch employments in husbandry or business. This is to throw over
the argument that historically an excise is a tax upon the
enjoyment of commodities. But the attempted distinction, whatever may be thought of its validity, is inapplicable to a statute of Virginia passed in 1780. There a tax
of three pounds, six shillings and eight pence was to be
paid for every male tithable above the age of twenty-one
years (with stated exceptions), and a like tax for "every
white servant whatsoever, except apprentices under the
age of twenty one years." 10 Hening's Statutes of Virginia, p. 244. Our colonial forbears knew more about
ways of taxing than some of their descendants seem to
be willing to concede. 5
The historical prop failing, the prop or fancied prop of
principle remains. We learn that employment for lawful
gain is a "natural" or "inherent" or "inalienable" right,
and not a "privilege" at all. But natural rights, so called,
are as much subject to taxation as rights of less importance.6 An excise is not limited to vocations or activities
4The statute, amended from time to time, but with its basic structure unaffected,.is on the statute books today. Act of 1803, 43 George
III, c. 161; Act of 1812, 52 George III, c. 93; Act of 1853, 16 & 17
Vict., c. 90; Act of 1869, 32 & 33 Vict., c. 14. 24 Halsbury's Laws
of England, 1st ed., pp. 692 et seq.
5 See also the following laws imposing occupation taxes: 12 Hening's
Statutes of Virgina, p. 285, Act of 1786; Chandler, The Colonial
Records of Georgia, vol. 19, Part 2, p. 88, Act of 1778; 1 Potter,
Taylor and Yancey, North Carolina Revised Laws, p. 501, Act of

1784. *
6The cases are brought together by Professor John MacArthur
Maguire in an essay, "Taxing the Exercise of Natural Rights" (Harvard Legal Essays, 1934, pp. 273, 322).

The Massachusetts decisions must be read in the light of the particular definitions and restrictions of the Massachusetts Constitution.

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS.
548

Opinion of the Court.

that may be prohibited altogether. It is not limited to
those that are the outcome of a franchise. It extends to
vocations or activities pursued as of common right. What
the individual does in the operation of a business is amenable to taxation just as much as what he owns, at all events
if the classification is not tyrannical or arbitrary. "Business is as legitimate an object of the taxing powers as property." Newton v. Atchison, 31 Kan. 151, 154 (per Brewer,
J.); 1 Pac. 288. Indeed, ownership itself, as we had occasion to point out the other day, is only a bundle of rights
and privileges invested with a single name. Henneford v.
Silas Mason Co., 300 U. S. 577. "A state is at liberty, if
it pleases, to tax them all collectively, or to separate the
faggots and lay the charge distributively." Ibid. Employment is a business relation, if not itself a business.
It is a relation without which business could seldom be
carried on effectively. The power to tax the activities and
relations that constitute a calling considered as a unit is
the power to tax any of them. The whole includes the
parts. Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Wallace, 288 U. S.
249, 267, 268.
The subject matter of taxation open to the power of
the Congress is as comprehensive as that open to the
power of the states, though the method of apportionment
may at times be different. "The Congress shall have
power to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts and excises." Art. 1, § 8. If the tax is a direct one, it shall be
apportioned according to the census or enumeration. If
it is a duty, impost, or excise, it shall be uniform throughout the United States. Together, these classes include
every form of tax appropriate to sovereignty. Cf. Burnet
v. Brooks; 288 U. S. 378, 403, 405; Brushaber v. Union
Pacific R. Co., 240 U. S. 1, 12. Whether the tax is to be
Opinion of the Justices, 282 Mass. 619, 622; 186 N. E. 490; 266 Mass.
590, 593; 165 N. E. 904. And see Howes Brothers Co. v. Massachusetts Une nployment Compensation Comm'n, supra, pp. 730, 731.

582

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

classified as an "excise" is in truth not of critical importance. If not that, it is an "impost" (Pollock v. Farmers'
Loan & Trust Co., 158 U. S. 601, 622, 625; Pacific Insurance Co. v. Soule, 7 Wall. 433, 445), or a "duty" (Veazie
Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, 546, 547; Pollock v. Farmers'
Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429, 570; Knowlton v. Moore,
178 U. S. 41, 46). A capitation or other "direct" tax it
certainly is not. "Although there have been from time to
time intimations that there might be some tax which was
not a direct tax nor included under the words 'duties, imposts and excises,' such a tax for more than one hundred
years of national existence has as yet remained undiscovered, notwithstanding the stress of particular circumstances has invited thorough investigation into sources of
powers." Pollock v. Farmers'Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S.
429, 557. There is no departure from that thought in
later cases, but rather a new eniphasis of it. Thus, in
Thomas v. United States, 192 U. S. 363, 370, it was said
of the words "duties, imposts and excises" that "they
were used comprehensively to cover customs and excise
duties imposed on importation, c6nsumption, manufacture and sale of certain commodities, privileges, particular
business transactions, vocations, occupations and the like."
At times taxpayers have contended that the Congress
is without power to lay an excise on the enjoyment of a
privilege created by state law. The contention has been
put aside as baseless. Congress may tax the transmission
of property by inheritance or will, though the states and
not Congress have created the privilege of succession.
Knowlton v. Moore, supra, p. 58. Congress may tax the
enjoyment of a corporate franchise, though a state and
not Congress has brought the franchise into being. Flint
v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107, 155. The statute books
of the states are strewn with illustrations of taxes laid on

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS.
548

Opinion of the Court.

occupations pursued of common right.7 We find no basis
for a holding that the power in that regard which belongs
by accepted practice to the legislatures of the states, has
been denied by the Constitution to the Congress of the
nation.
2. The tax being an excise, its imposition must conform
to the canon of uniformity. There has been no departure
from this requirement. According to the settled doctrine the uniformity exacted is geographical, not intrinsic. Knowlton v. Moore, supra, p. 83; Flint v. Stone
Tracy Co., supra, p. 158; Billings v. United States, 232
U. S. 261, 282; Stellwagen v. Clum, 245 U. S. 605, 613;
LaBelle Iron Works v. United States, 256 U. S. 377, 392;
Poe v. Seaborn, 282 U. S. 101, 117; Wright v. Vinton
Branch Mountain Trust Bank, 300 U. S. 440. "The rule
of liability shall be the same in all parts of the United
States." Floridav. Mellon, 273 U. S. 12, 17.
Second. The excise is not invalid under the provisions
of the Fifth Amendment by force Of its exemptions.
7 Alabama General Acts, 1935, c. 194, Art. XIII (flat license tax on
occupations); Arizona Revised Code, Supplement (1936) § 3138a
et seq. (general gross receipts tax); Connecticut General Statutes,
Supplement (1935) §§ 457c, 458c (gross receipts tax on unincorporated businesses); Revised Code of Delaware (1935) §§ 192-197 (flat
license tax on occupations); Compiled Laws of Florida, Permanent
Supplement (1936) Vol. I, § 1279 (flat license tax on occupations);
Georgia Laws, 1935, p. 11 (flat license tax on occupations); Indiana
Statutes Ann. (1933) § 64-2601 et seq. (general gross receipts tax);
Louisiana Laws, 3rd Extra Session, 1934, Act No. 15, 1st Extra
Session, 1935, Acts Nos. 5, 6 (general gross receipts tax); Mississippi Law 1934, c. 119 (general gross receipts tax); New Mexico
Laws, 1935, c. 73 (general gross receipts tax); South Dakota Laws,
1933, c. 184 (general gross receipts tax, expired June 30, 1935);
Washington Laws, 1935, c. 180, Title II (general gross receipts tax);
West Virginia Code, Supplement (1935) § 960 (general gross receipts
tax).

584

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

The statute does not apply, as we have seen, to employers of less than eight. It does not apply to agricultural labor, or domestic service in a private home or
to some other classes of less importance. Petitioner contends that the effect'of these restrictions is an arbitrary
discrimination vitiating the tax.
The Fifth Amendment unlike the Fourteenth has no
equal protection clause. LaBelle Iron Works v. United
States, supra; Brushaber v. Union Pacific R. Co., supra,
p. 24. But even the states, though subject to such a
clause, are not confined to a formula of rigid uniformity
in framing measures of taxation. Swiss Oil Corp. v.
Shanks, 273 U. S. 407, 413. They may tax some kinds
of property at one rate, and others at another, and
exempt others altogether. Bell's Gap R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232; Stebbins v. Riley, 268 U. S. 137,
142; Ohio Oil Co. v. Conway, 281 U. S. 146, 150. They
may lay an excise on the operations of a particular kind
of business, and exempt some other kind of business
closely akin thereto. Quong Wing v. Kirkendall, 223
U. S. 59, 62; American Sugar Refining Co. v. Louisiana,
179 U. S. 89, 94; Armour Packing Co. v. Lacy, 200 U. S.
226, 235; Brown-Forman Co. v. Kentucky, 217 U. S.
563, 573;. Heisler v. Thomas Colliery Co., 260 U. S. 245,
255; State Board of Tax Comm'rs v. Jackson, 283 U. S.
527, 537, 538. If this latitude of judgment is lawful for
the states, it is lawful, a fortiori, in legislation by the
Congress, which is subject to restraints less narrow and
confining. Quong Wing v. Kirkendall, supra.
The classifications and exemptions directed by the
statute now in controversy have support in considerations
of policy a-id practical convenience that cannot be condemned as arbitrary. The classifications and exemptions
would therefore be upheld if they had been adopted by
a state and the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment
were invoked to annul them. This is held in two.cases

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS.
548

Opinion of the Court.

passed upon today in which precisely the same provisions
were the subject of attack, the provisions being contained
in the Unemployment Compensation Law of the State of
Alabama. Carmichael v. Southern Coal & Coke Co.,
and Carmichael v. Gulf States Paper Corp., ante, p. 495.
The opinion rendered in those cases covers the ground
fully. It would be useless to repeat the argument. The
act of Congress is therefore valid, so far at least as its
system of exemptions is concerned, and this though we
assume that discrimination, if gross enough, is equivalent
to confiscation and subject under the Fifth Amendment
to challenge and annulment.
Third. The excise is not void as involving the coercion
of the States in contravention of the Tenth Amendment
or of restrictions implicit in our federal form of
government.
The proceeds of the excise when collected are paid into
the Treasury at Washington, and thereafter are subject to
appropriation like public moneys generally. Cincinnati
Soap Co. v. United States, ante, p. 308. No presumption
can be indulged that they will be misapplied or wasted.8
Even if they were collected in the hope or expectation
that some other and collateral good would be furthered as
an incident, that without more would not make the act
invalid. Sonzinsky v. United States, 300 U. S. 506. This
indeed is hardly questioned. The case for the petitioner
is built on the contention that here an ulterior aim is.
wrought into the very structure of the act, and what is
total estimated receipts without taking into account the 90
per cent deduction, range from $225,000,000 in the first year to over
$900,000,000 seven years later. Even if the maximum credits are
available to taxpayers in all' states, the maximum estimated receipts
from* Title IX will range between $22,000,000, at one extreme, tc
$90,000,000 at the other. If some of the states hold out in their
unwillingness to pass statutes of their own, the receipts will be still
larger.
S The

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

even more important that the aim is not only ulterior, but
essentially unlawful. In particular, the 90 per cent credit
is relied upon as supporting that conclusion. But before
the statute succumbs to an assault upon these lines, two
propositions must be made out by the assailant. Cincinnati Soap Co. v. United States, supra. There must be a
showing in the first place that separated from the credit
the revenue provisions are incapable of standing by themselves. There must be a showing in the second place that
the tax and the credit in. combination are weapons of coercion, destroying or impairing the autonomy of the states.
The truth of each proposition being essential to the success of the assault, we pass for convenience to a consideration of the second, without pausing to inquire whether
there has been a demonstration of the first.
To draw the line intelligently between duress and inducement there is need to remind ourselves of facts as to
the problem of unemployment that are now matters of
common knowledge. West Coast Hotel Co. v. Parrish,
300 U. S. 379. The relevant statistics are gathered in the
brief of counsel for the Government. Of the many available figures a few only will be mentioned. During the
years 1929 to 1936, when the country was passing through
a cyclical depression, the number of the unemployed
mounted to unprecedented heights. Often the average
was more than 10 million; at times a peak was attained of
16 million or more. Disaster to the breadwinner meant
disaster to dependents. Accordingly the roll of the unemployed, itself formidable enough, was only a partial
roll of the destitute or needy. The fact developed quickly
that the states were unable to give the requisite relief.
The problem had become national in area and dimensions.
There was need of help from the nation if the people were
not to starve. It is too late today for the argument to
be heard with tolerance that in a crisis so extreme the use
of the moneys of the nation to relieve the unemployed

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS.
548

Opinion of the Court.

and their dependents is a use for any purpose narrower
than the promotion of the general welfare. Cf. United
States v. Butler, 297 U. S. 1, 65, 66, Helvering v. Davis,
decided herewith, post, p. 619. The nation responded to
the call of the distressed. Between January 1, 1933 and
July 1,1936, the states (according to statistics submitted
by the Government) incurred obligations of $689,291,802
for emergency relief; local subdivisions an additional
$775,675,366. In the same period the obligations for
emergency relief incurred by the national government
were $2,929,307,125, or twice the obligations of states and
local agencies combined. According to the President's
budget message for the fiscal year 1938, the national government expended for public works and unemployment relief for the three fiscal years 1934, 1935, and 1936, the
stupendous total of $8,681,000,000. The parens patriae
has many reasons-fiscal and economic as well as social
and moral-for planning to mitigate disasters that bring
these burdens in their train.
In the presence of this urgent need for some remedial
expedient, the question is to be answered whether the expedient adopted has overlept the bounds of power. The
assailants of the statute say that its dominant end and
aim is to drive the state legislatures under the whip of
economic pressure into the enactment of unemployment
compensation laws at the bidding of the central government. Supporters of the statute say that its operation is
not constraint, but the creation of a larger freedom, the
states and the nation joining in a co.perative endeavor to
avert a common evil. Before Congress acted, unemployment compensation insurance was still, for the most part,
a project and no more. Wisconsin was the pioneer. Her
statute was adopted in 1931. At times bills for such insurance were introduced elsewhere, but they did not reach
the stage of law. In 1935, four states (California, Massachusetts, New Hampshire and New York) passed unem-

588

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

ployment laws on the eve of the adoption of the Social
Security Act, and two others did likewise after the federal
act and later in the year. The statutes differed to some
extent in type, but were directed to a common end. In
1936, twenty-eight other states fell in line, and eight more
the present year. But if states had been holding back before the passage of the federal law, inaction was not owing, for the most part, to the lack of sympathetic interest.
Many held back through alarm lest, in laying such a toll
upon their industries, they would place themselves in a
position of economic disadvantage as compared with
neighbors or competitors. See House Report, No. 615,
74th Congress, 1st session, p. 8; Senate Report, No. 628,
74th Congress, 1st session, p. 11.' Two consequences ensued. One was that the freedom of a state to contribute
its fair share to the solution of a national problem was
paralyzed by fear. The other was that in so far as there
was failure by the states to contribute relief according to
the measure of their capacity, a disproportionate burden,
and a mountainous one, was laid upon the resources of
the Government of the nation.
The Social Security Act is an attempt to find a method
by which all these public agencies may work together to
a common end. Every dollar of the new taxes will continue in all likelihood to be used and needed by the
OThe attitude of Massachusetts is significant. Her act became
a law August 12, 1935, two days before the federal act. Even so,
she prescribed that its provisions should not become operative unless
the federal bill became a law, or unless eleven of the following states
(Alabama, Connecticut, Delaware, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa,
Maine, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, New Hampshire,
New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Rhode Island, South
Carolina, Tennessee, Vermont) should impose on their employers
burdens substantially equivalent. Acts of 1935, c. 479, p. 655. Her
.'ear of competition is thus forcefully attested. See also California
Laws, 1935, c. 352, Art. I, § 2; Idaho Laws, 1936 (Third Extra
Session) c. 12, § 26; Mississippi Laws, 1936, c. 176, § 2-a.

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS.
548

Opinion of the Court.

nation as long as states are unwilling, whether through
timidity or for other motives, to do what can be done
at home. At least the inference is permissible that Congress so believed, though retaining undiminished freedom to spend the money as it pleased. On the other
hand fulfilment of the home duty will be lightened and
encouraged by crediting the taxpayer upon his account
with the Treasury of the nation to the extent that his
contributions under the laws of the locality have simplified or diminished the problem of relief and the probable
demand upon the resources of the fisc. Duplicated
taxes, or burdens that approach them, are recognized
hardships that government, state or national, may properly avoid. Henneford v. Silas Mason Co., supra; Kidd
v. Alabama, 188 U. S. 730, 732; Watson v. State Comptroller, 254 U. S. 122, 125. If Congress believed that
the general welfare would better be promoted by relief
through local units than by the system then in vogue,
the c6operating localities ought not in all fairness to
pay a second time.
Who then is coerced through the operation of this
statute? Not the taxpayer. He pays in fulfilment of
the mandate of the local legislature. Not the state.
Even now she does not offer a suggestion that in passing
the unemployment law she was affected by duress. See
Carmichaelv. Southern Coal & Coke Co., and Carmichael
v. Gulf States Paper Corp., supra. For all that appears
she is satisfied with her choice, and would be sorely disappointed if it were now to be annulled. The difficulty
with the petitioner's contention is that it confuses motive
with coercion. "Every tax is in some measure regulatory.
To some extent it interposes an economic impediment to
the activity taxed as compared with others not taxed."
Sonzinsky v. United States, supra. In like manner every
rebate from a tax when conditioned upon conduct is in
some measure a temptation. But to hold that motive

590

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S

or temptation is equivalent to coercion is to plunge the
law in endless difficulties. The outcome of such a doctrine is the acceptance of a philosophical determinism
by which choice becomes impossible. Till now the law
has been guided by a robust common sense which assumes
the freedom of the will as a working hypothesis in the
solution of its problems. The wisdom of the hypothesis
has illustration in this case. Nothing in the case suggests
the exertion of a power akin to undue influence, if we assume that such a concept can ever be applied with fitness
to the relations between state and nation. Even on that
assumption the location of the point at which pressure
turns into compulsion, and ceases to be inducement,
would be a question of degree,-at times, perhaps, of
fact. The point had not been reached when Alabama
made her choice. We cannot say that she was acting,
not of her unfettered will, but under the strain of a persuasion equivalent to undue influence, when she chose to
have relief administered under laws of her own making,
by agents of her own selection, instead of under federal
laws, administered by federal officers, with all the ensuing
evils, at least to many minds, of federal patronage and
power. There would be a strange irony, indeed, if her
choice were now to be annulled on the basis of an assumed duress in the enactment of a statute which her
courts have accepted as a true expression of her will.
Beeland Wholesale Co. v. Kaufman, supra. We think
the choice must stand.
In ruling as we do, we leave many questions open. We
do not say that a tax is valid, when imposed by act of
Congress, if it is laid upon the condition that a state may
escape its operation through the adoption of a statute unrelated in subject matter to activities fairly within the
scope of national policy and power. No such question is
before us. In the tender of this credit Congress does not
intrude upon fields foreign to its function. The purpose

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS.
548

Opinion of the Court.

of its intervention, as we have shown, is to safeguard its
own treasury and as an incident to that protection to
place the states upon a footing of equal opportunity.
Drains upon its own resources are to be checked; obstructions to the freedom of the states are to be leveled. It is
one thing to impose a tax dependent upon the conduct of
the taxpayers, or of the state in which they live, where the
conduct to be stimulated or discouraged is unrelated to the
fiscal need subserved by the tax in its normal operation,
or to any other end legitimately national. The Child Labor Tax Case, 259 U. S.20, and Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S.
44, were decided in the belief that the statutes there condemned were exposed to that reproach. Cf. United States
v. Constantine, 296 U. S. 287. It is quite another thing
to say that a tax will be abated upon the doing of an act
that will satisfy the fiscal need, the tax and the alternative being approximate equivalents. In such circumstances, if in no others, inducement or persuasion does
not go beyond the bounds of power. We do not fix the
outermost line. Enough for present purposes that wherever the line may be, this statute is within it. Definition
more precise must abide the wisdom of the future.
Floridav. Mellon, 273 U. S.12, supplies us with a precedent, if precedent be needed. What was in controversy
there was § 301 of the Revenue Act of 1926, which imposes a tax upon the transfer of a decedent's estate, while
at the same time permitting a credit, not exceeding 80 per
cent, for "the amount of any estate, inheritance, legacy,
or succession taxes actually paid to any State or Territory." Florida challenged that provision as unlawful.
Florida had no inheritance taxes and alleged that under
its constitution it could not levy any. 273 U. S. 12, 15.
Indeed, by abolishing inheritance taxes, it had hoped to
induce wealthy persons to become its citizens. See 67
Cong. Rec., Part 1, pp. 735, 752. It argued at our bar that
"the Estate Tax provision was not passed for the purpose

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court

301 U. S.

of raising federal revenue" (273 U. S. 12, 14), but rather
"to coerce States into adopting estate or inheritance tax
laws." 273 U. S. 12, 13. In fact, as a result of the 80 per
cent credit, material changes of such laws were made in
36 states.10 In the face of that attack we upheld the act
as valid. Cf. Massachusettsv. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447, 482;
also Act of August 5, 1861, c. 45, 12 Stat. 292; Act of May
13, 1862, c. 66, 12 Stat. 384.
United States v. Butler, supra, is cited by petitioner as
a decision to the contrary. There a tax was imposed on
processors of farm products, the proceeds to be paid to
farmers who would reduce their acreage and crops under
agreements with the Secretary of Agriculture, the plan
Df the act being to increase the prices of certain farm products by decreasing the quantities produced. The court
held (1) that the so-called tax was not a true one (pp.
56, 61), the proceeds being earmarked for the benefit of
farmers complying with the prescribed conditions, (2)
that there was an attempt to regulate production without
the consent of the state in which production was affected,
and (3) that the payments to farmers were coupled with
coercive contracts (p. 73), unlawful in their aim and oppressive in their consequences. The decision was by a
divided court, a minority taking the view that the objections were untenable; None of them is applicable to the
situation here developed.
(a) The proceeds of the tax in controversy are not earmarked for a special group.
(b) The unemployment compensation law which is a
condition of the credit has had the approval of the state
and could not be a law without it.
(c) The condition is not linked to an irrevocable
agreement, for the state at its pleasure may repeal its
unemployment law, § 903 (a) (6), terminate the credit,
10 Perkins, State action under the Federal Estate Tax Credit
Clause, 13 North Carolina L. Rev. 271, 280.

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS.
548

593-

Opinion of the Court.

and place itself where it was before the credit was
accepted.
(d) The condition is not direcfed to the attainment of
an unlawful end, but to an end, the relief of unemployment, for which nation and state may lawfully
co~perate.
Fourth. The statute does not call for a surrender by
the states of powers essential to their quasi-sovereign
existence.
Argument to the contrary has its source in two sections
of the act. One section (903 1") defines the minimum
criteria to which a state compensation system is required
to conform if it is to be accepted by the Board as the
basis for a credit. The other section (904 12) rounds out
the requirement with complementary rights and duties.
Not all the criteria or their incidents are challenged as
unlawful. We will speak of them first generally, and
then more specifically in so far as they are questioned.
A credit to taxpayers for payments made to a State
under a state unemployment law will be manifestly futile
in the absence of some assurance that the law leading to
the credit is in truth what it professes to be. An unemployment law framed in such a way that the unemployed
who look to it will be deprived of reasonable protection
is one in name and nothing more. What is basic and
essential may be assured by suitable conditions. The
terms embodied in these sections are directed to that end.
A wide range of judgment is given to the several states
as to the particular type of statute to be spread upon
their books. For anything to the contrary in the provisions of this act they may use the pooled unemployment form, which is in effect with variations in Alabama,
California, Michigan, New York, and elsewhere. They
may establish a system of merit ratings applicable at
11 See note 1, supra.
12 See note 2, supra.
146212*-37-38

594

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

once or to go into effect later on the basis of subsequent
experience. Cf. §§ 909, 910. They may provide for employee contributions as in Alabama and California, or
put the entire burden upon the employer as in New York.
They may choose a system of unemployment reserve accounts by which an employer is permitted after his reserve has accumulated to contribute at a reduced rate
or even not at all. This is the system which had its origin
in Wisconsin. What they may not do, if they would
earn the credit, is to depart from those standards which
in the judgment of Congress are to be ranked as fundamental. Even if opinion -may differ as to the fundamental quality of one or more of the conditions, the
difference will not avail to vitiate the statute. In determining essentials Congress must have the benefit of a fair
margin of discretion. One cannot say with reason that
this margin has been exceeded, or that the basic standards
have been determined in any arbitrary fashion. In
the event that some particular condition shall be found
to be too uncertain to be capable of enforcement, it may
be severed from the others, and what is left will still be
valid.
We are to keep in mind steadily that the conditions
to be approved by the Board as the basis for a credit
are not provisions of a contract, but terms of a statute,
which may be altered or repealed. § 903 (a) (6). The
state does not bind itself to keep the law in force. It
does not even bind itself that the moneys paid into the
federal fund will'be kept there indefinitely or for any
stated time. On the contrary, the Secretary of the Treasury will honor a requisition for the whole or any part
of the deposit in the fund whenever one is made by the
appropriate officials. The only consequence of the repeal or excessive amendment of the statute, or the expenditure of the money, when requisitioned, for other
than -compensation uses or administrative expenses, is

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS.
548

Opinion of the Court.

that approval of the law will end, and with it the allowance of a credit, upon notice to the state agency and an
opportunity for hearing. § 903 (b) (c).
These basic considerations are in truth a solvent of the
problem. Subjected to their test, the several objections
on the score of abdication are found to be unreal.
Thus, the argument is made that by force of an agreement the moneys when withdrawn must be "paid
through public employment offices in the State. or
through such other agencies as the Board may approve."
§ 903 (a) (1). But in truth there is no agreement as to
the method of disbursement. There is only a condition
which the state is free at pleasure to disregard or to fulfill.
Moreover, approval is not requisite if public employment
offices are made the disbursing instruments. Approval
is to be a check upon resort to "other agencies" that may,
perchance, be irresponsible. A state looking for a credit
must give assurance that her system has been organized
upon a base of rationality.
There is argument again that the moneys when withdrawn are to be devoted to specific uses, the relief of
unemployment, and that by agreement for such payment
the quasi-sovereign position of the state has been impaired, if not abandoned. But again there is confusion
between promise and condition. Alabama is still free,
without breach of an agreement, to change her system
over night. No officer or agency of the national Government can force a compensation law upon her or keep it in
existence. No officer or agency of that GoVernment,
either by suit or other means, can supervise or control the
application of the payments.
Finally and chiefly, abdication is supposed to follow
from § 904 of the statute and the parts of § 903 that are
.complementary thereto. § 903 (a) (3). By these the
Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed to
receive and hold in the Unemployment Trust Fund all

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

moneys deposited therein by a state agency for a state
unemployment fund and to invest in obligations of the
United States such portion of the Fund as is not in his
judgment required to meet current withdrawals. We are
told that Alabama in consenting to that deposit has renounced the plenitude of power inherent in her statehood.
The same pervasive misconception is in evidence again.
All that the state has done is to say in effect through the
enactment of a statute that her agents shall be authorized
to deposit the unemployment tax receipts in the Treasury
at Washington. Alabama Unemployment Act of September 14, 1935, § 10 (i). The statute may be repealed.
§ 903 (a) (6). The consent may be revoked. The deposits may be withdrawn. The moment the state commission' gives notice to the depositary that it would like
the moneys back, the Treasurer will return, them. To
find state destruction there is to find it almost anywhere.
With nearly as much reason one might say that a state
abdicates its functions when it places the state moneys
on deposit in a national bank.
There are very good reasons of fiscal and governmental
policy why a State should be willing to make the Secretary of the Treasury the custodian of the fund. His possession of the moneys and his control of investments will
be an assurance of stability and safety in times of stress
and strain. A report of the Ways and Means Committee
of the House of Representatives, quoted in the margin,
develops the situation clearly.'
Nor is there risk of loss
"This last provision will not only afford maximum safety for these
funds but is very essential to insure that they will operate to promote
the stability of business rather than the reverse. Unemployment

reserve funds have the peculiarity that the demands upon them
fluctuate considerably, being heaviest when business slackens. If, in
sitch times, the securities in which these funds are invested are thrown.
upon tho market for liquidation, the net effect is likely to be increased
deflation. Such a result is avoided in this bill through the provision
that all reserve funds are to be held by the United States Treasury, to

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS.
548

Opinion of the Court.

or waste. The credit of the Treasury is at all times back
of the deposit, with the result that the right of withdrawal will be unaffected by the fate of any intermediate
investments, just as if a checking account in the usual
form had been opened in a bank.
The inference of abdication thus dissolves in thinnest
air when the deposit is conceived of as dependent upon a
statutory consent, and not upon a contract effective to
create a duty. By this we do not intimate that the conclusion would be different if a contract were discovered.
Even sovereigns may contract without derogating from
their sovereignty. Perry v. United States, 294 U. S.330,
353; 1 Oppenheim, International Law, 4th ed., §§ 493,
494; Hall, International Law, 8th ed., § 107; 2 Hyde, International Law, § 489. The states are at liberty, upon
obtaining the consent of Congress, to make agreements
with one another. Constitution, Art. I, § 10, par. 3. Poole
v. Fleeger, 11 Pet. 185, 209; Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 12 Pet. 657, 725. We find no room for doubt that
they may do the like with Congress if the essence of their
statehood is maintained without impairment. 4 Alabama
be invested and liquidated by the Secretary of the Treasury in a
manner calculated to promote business stability. When business conditions are such that investment in securities purchased on the open
market is unwise, the Secretary of the Treasury may issue special
nonnegotiable obligations exclusively to the unemployment trust fund.
When a reverse situation exists and heavy drains are made upon the
fund. for payment of unemployment benefits, the Treasury does not
have to dispose of the securities belonging to the fund in open market
but may assume them itself. With such a method of handling the
reserve funds, it is believed that this bill will solve the problem often
raised in discussions of unemployment compensation, regarding the
possibility of transferring purchasing power from boom periods to
depression periods. It will in fact operate to sustain purchasing
power at the onset of a depression without having any counteracting
deflationary tendencies." House Report, No. 615, 74th Congress,
1st session, p. 9.
14 Cf. 12 Stat. 503; 26 Stat. 417.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
MCREYNOLDS, J.,

dissenting.

301 U. S.

is seeking and obtaining a credit of many millions in favor
of her citizens out of the Treasury of the nation. Nowhere in our scheme of government-in the limitations
express or implied of our federal constitution--do we find
that she is prohibited from assenting to conditions that
will assure a fair and just requital for benefits received.
But we will not labor the point further. An unreal prohibition directed to an unreal agreement will not vitiate
an act of Congress, and cause it to collapse in ruin.
Fifth. Title III of the act is separable from Title IX,
and its validity is not at issue.
The essential provisions of that title have been stated
in the opinion. As already pointed out, the title does not
appropriate a dollar of the public moneys. It does no
more than authorize appropriations to be made in the
future for the purpose of assisting states in the administration of their laws, if Congress shall decide that appropriations are desirable. The title might be expunged, and
Title IX would stand intact. Without a severability
clause we should still be led to that conclusion. The presence of such a clause (§ 1103) makes the conclusion even
clearer. Williams v. Standard Oil Co., 278 U. S. 235, 242;
Utah Power & Light ,Co. v. Pfost, 286 U. S. 165, 184; Carter v. Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S. 238, 312.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

Separate opinion of MR.

JUSTICE

MCREYNOLDS.

That portion of the Social Security legislation here under consideration, I think, exceeds the power granted to
Congress. It unduly interferes with the orderly government of the State by her own people and otherwise offends the Federal Constitution.
In Texas v. White, 7 Wall. 700, 725 (1869), a cause of
momentous importance, this Court, through Chief Justice
Chase, declared-

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS.
548

McREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

"But the perpetuity and indissolubility of the Union,
by no means implies the loss of distinct and individual existence, or of the right of self-government, by the States.
Under the Articles of Confederation each State retained
its sovereignty, freedom, and independence, and every
power, jurisdiction, and right not expressly delegated to
the United States. Under the Constitution, though the
powers of the States were much restricted, still, all powers
not delegated to the United States, nor prohibited to the
States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the
people. And we have already had occasion to remark at
this term, that 'the people of each State compose a State,
having its own government, and endowed with all the
functions essential to separate and independent existence,'
and that 'without the States in union, there could be no
such political body as the United States.' [Lane County
v. Oregon, 7 Wall. 71, 76.] Not only, therefore, can there
be no loss of separate and independent autonomy to the
States, through their union under the Constitution, but
it may be not unreasonably said that the preservation of
the States, and the maintenance of their governments, are
as much within the design and care of the Constitution as
the preservation of the Union and the maintenance of
the National government. The Constitution, in all its
provisions, looks to an indestructible Union, composed of
indestructible States."
The doctrine thus announced and often repeated, I had
supposed was firmly established. Apparently the States
remained really free to exercise governmental powers, not
delegated or prohibited, without interference by the Federal Government through threats of punitive measures or
offers of seductive favors. Unfortunately, the decision
just announced opens the way for practical annihilation
of this theory; and no cloud of words or ostentatious
parade of irrelevant statistics should be permitted to
obscure that fact.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
McRSYNOIS, J., dissenting.

301 U. S.

The invalidity, also the destructive tendency, of legislation like the Act before us were forcefully pointed out
by President Franklin Pierce in a veto message sent to the
Senate May 3, 1854.1 He was a scholarly lawyer of distinction and enjoyed the advice and counsel of a rarely
able Attorney General-Caleb Cushing of Massachusetts.
This message considers with unusual lucidity points here
specially important. I venture to set out pertinent portions of it which must appeal to all who continue to respect both the letter and spirit of our great charter.
"To the Senate of the United States:
"The bill entitled 'An Act making a grant of public lands
to the several States for the benefit of indigent insane
persons,' which was presented to me on the 27th ultimo,
has been maturely considered, and is returned to the Senate, the House in which it originated, with a statement
of the objections which have required me to withhold
from it my approval.
"If in presenting my objections to this bill I should say
more than strictly belongs to the measure or is required
for the discharge of my official obligation, let it be attributed to a sincere desire to justify my act before those
whose good opinion I so highly value and to that earnestness which springs from my deliberate conviction that a
strict adherence to the terms and purposes of the federal
compact offers the best, if not the only, security for the
preservation of our blessed inheritance of representative
liberty.
"The bill provides in substance:
"First. That 10,000,000 acres of land be granted to the
several States, to be apportioned among them in the compound ratio of the geographical area and representation
of said States in the House of Representatives.
1 "Messages and Papers of the President" by James D. Richardson,

Vol. V, pp. 247-256.

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS.
548

MCREYNOIDS, J., dissenting.

"Second. That wherever there are public lands in a
State subject to sale at the regular price of private entry,
the proportion of said 10,000,000 acres falling to such State
shall be selected from such lands within it, and that to the
States in which there are no such public lands land scrip
shall be issued to the amount of their distributive shares,
respectively, said scrip not to be entered by said States,
but to be sold by them and subject to entry by their assignees: Provided, That none of it shall be sold at less
than $1 per acre, under penalty of forfeiture of the same
to the United States.
"Third. That the expenses of the management and
superintendence of said lands and of the moneys received
therefrom shall be paid by the States to which they may
belong out of the treasury of said States.
"Fourth. That the gross proceeds of the sales of such
lands or land scrip so granted shall be invested by the several States in safe stocks, to constitute a perpetual fund,
the principal of which shall remain forever undiminished,
and the interest to be appropriated to the maintenance of
the indigent insane within the several States.
"Fifth. That annual returns of lands or scrip sold shall
be made by the States to the Secretary of the Interior,
and the whole grant be subject to certain conditions and
limitations prescribed in the bill, to be assented to by
legislative acts of said States.
"This bill therefore proposes that the Federal Government shall make provision to the amount of the value of
10,000,000 acres of land for an eleemosynary object
within the several States, to be administered by the political authority of the same; and it presents at the threshold the question whether any such act on the part of the
Federal Government is warranted and sanctioned by the
Constitution, the provisions and principles of which are
to be -protected and sustained as a first and paramount
duty.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
McREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

301 U. S.

"It can not be questioned that if Congress has power
to make provision for the indigent insane without the
limits of this District it has the same power to provide
for the indigent who are not insane, and thus to transfer
to the Federal Government the charge of all the poor
in all the States. It has the same power to provide hospitals and other local establishments for the care and
cure of every species of human infirmity, and thus to assume all that duty of either public philanthropy or public necessity to the dependent, the orphan, the sick, or
the needy which is now discharged by the States themselves or by corporate institutions or private endowments
existing under the legislation of the States. The whole
field of public beneficence is thrown open to the-- care
and culture of the Federal Government. Generous impulses no longer encounter the limitations and control of
our imperious fundinmental law; for however worthy may
be the present object in itself, it is only one of a class.
It is not exclusively worthy of benevolent regard. Whatever considerations dictate sympathy for this particular
object apply in like manner, if not in the same degree,
to idiocy, to physical disease, to extreme destitution.
If Congress may and ought to provide for any one of these
objects, it may and ought to provide for them all. And
if it be done in this case, what answer shall be given
when Congress shall be called upon, as it doubtless will
be, to pursue a similar course of legislation in the others?
It will obviously be vain to reply that the object is
worthy, but that the application has taken a wrong direction. The power will have been deliberately assumed,
the general obligation will by this act have been acknowledged, and the question of means and expediency
will alone be left for consideration. The decision upon
the principle in any one case determines it for the whole
class. The question presented, therefore, clearly is upon
the constitutionality and propriety of the Federal Gov-

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS.
548

McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

ernment assuming to enter into a novel and vast field of
legislation, namely, that of providing for the care and
support of all those among the people of the United
States who by any form of calamity become fit objects of
public philanthropy.
"I readily and, I trust, feelingly acknowledge the duty
incumbent on us all as men and citizens, and as among
the highest and holiest of our duties, to provide for those
who, in the mysterious order of Providence, are subject
to want and to disease of body or mind; but I can not find
any authority in the Constitution for making the Federal
Government the great almoner of public charity throughout the United States. To do so would, in my judgment,
be contrary to the letter and spirit of the Constitution
and subversive of the whole theory upon which the Union
of these States is founded. And if it were admissible
to contemplate the exercise of this power for any object
whatever, I can not avoid the belief that it would in
the end be prejudicial rather than beneficial in the noble
offices of charity to have the charge of them transferred
from the States to the Federal Government. Are we not
too prone to forget that the Federal Union is the creature
of the States, not they of the Federal Union? We were
the inhabitants of colonies distinct in local government
one from the other before the revolution. By that Revolution the colonies each became an independent State.
They achieved that independence and secured its recognition by the agency of a consulting body, which, from being an assembly of the ministers of distinct sovereignties
instructed to agree to no form of government which did
not leave the domestic concerns of each State to itself,
was appropriately denominated a Congress. When, having tried the experiment of the Confederation, they resolved to change that for the present Federal Union,
and thus to ,confer on the Federal Government more
ample authority, they scrupulously measured such of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
McREYNOLDS, J.,

dissenting.

301 U. S.

functions of their cherished sovereignty as they chose to
delegate to the General Government. With this aim
and to this end the fathers of the Republic framed the
Constitution, in and by which the independent and sovereign States united themselves for certain specified objects and purposes, and for those only, leaving all powers
not therein set forth as conferred on one or another of
the three great departments-the legislative, the executive, and the judicial-indubitably with the States. And
when the people of the several States had in their State
conventions, and thus alone, given effect and force to
the Constitution, not content that any doubt should in
future arise as to the scope and character of this act,
they ingrafted thereon the explicit declaration that 'the
powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution nor prohibited by it to the States are reserved
to the States respectively or to the people.'
"Can it be controverted that the great mass of the business of Government-that involved in the social relations,
the internal arrangements of the body politic, the mental
and moral culture of men, the development of local resources of wealth, the punishment of crimes in general,
the preservation of order, the relief of the needy or otherwise unfortunate members of society-did in practice remain with the States; that none of these objects of local
concern are by the Constitution expressly or impliedly
prohibited to the States, and that none of them are by
any express language of the Constitution transferred to
the United States? Can it be claimed that any of these
functions of local administration and legislation are vested
in the Feaeral Government by any implication? I have
never found anything in the Constitution which is susceptible of such a construction. No one of the enumerated
powers touches the subject or has even a remote analogy
to it. The powers conferred upon the United States have
reference to federal relations, or to the means of accom-

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS.
548

605

McRYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

plishing or executing things of federal relation. So also
of the same character are the powers taken away from the
States by enumeration. In either case the powers
granted and the powers restricted were so granted or so
restricted only where it was requisite for the maintenance
of peace and harmony between the States or for the purpose of protecting their common interests and defending
their common sovereignty against aggression from abroad
or insurrection at home.
"I shall not discuss at length the question of power
sometimes claimed for the General Government under
the clause of the eighth section of the Constitution, which
gives Congress the power 'to lay and collect taxes, duties,
imposts, and excises, to pay debts and provide for the common defense and general welfare of the United States,'
because if it has not already been settled upon sound reason and authority it never will be. I take the received
and just construction of that article, as if written to lay
and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises in order to
pay the debts and in order to provide for the common
defense and general welfare. It is not a substantive general power to provide for the welfare of the United States,
but is a limitation on the grant of power to raise money
by taxes, duties, and imposts. If it were otherwise, all
the rest of the Constitution, consisting of carefully enumerated and cautiously guarded grants of specific powers,
would have been useless, if not delusive. It would be'
impossible in that view to escape from the conclusion that
these were inserted only to mislead for the present, and,
instead of enlightening and defining the pathway of the
future, to involve its action in the mazes of doubtful construction. Such a conclusion the character of the men
who framed that sacred instrument will never permit us
to form. Indeed, to suppose it susceptible of any other
construction would be to consign all the rights of the
States and of the people of the States to the mere discre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

tion of Congress, and thus to clothe the Federal Government with authority to control the sovereign States, by
which they would have been dwarfed into provinces or
departments and all sovereignty vested in an absolute
consolidated central power, against which the spirit of
liberty has so often and in so many countries struggled
in vain.
"In my judgment you can not by tributes to humanity
make any adequate compensation for the wrong you would
inflict by removing the sources of power and political
action from those who are to be thereby affected. If the
time shall ever arrive when, for an object appealing, however strongly, to our sympathies, the dignity of the States
shall bow to the dictation of Congress by conforming their
legislation thereto, when the power and majesty and
honor of those who created shall become subordinate to
the thing of their creation, I but feebly utter my apprehensions when I express my firm conviction that we shall
see 'the beginning of the end.'
"Fortunately, we are not left in doubt as to the purpose of the Constitution any more than as to its express
language, for although the history of its formation, as
recorded in the Madison Papers, shows that the Federal
Government in its present form emerged from the conflict
of opposing influences which have continued to divide
statesmen from that day to this, yet the rule of clearly
defined powers and of strict construction presided over
the actual conclusion and subsequent adoption of the Constitution. President Madison, in the Federalist, says:
"'The powers delegated by the proposed Constitution
are few and defined. Those which are to remain in the
State governments are numerous and indefinite. . . . Its
[the General Government's] jurisdiction extends to certain enumerated objects only, and leaves to the several
States a residuary and inviolable sovereignty over all
other objects.'

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS.
548

McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

"In the same spirit President Jefferson invokes 'the
support of the State governments in all their rights as
the most competent administrations for our domestic concerns and the surest bulwarks against anti-republican
tendencies;' and President Jackson said that our true
strength and wisdom are not promoted by invasions of the
rights and powers of the several States, but that, on the
contrary, they consist 'not in binding the States more
elosely to the center, but in leaving each more unobstructed
in its proper orbit.'
"The framers of the Constitution, in refusing to confer
on the Federal Government any jurisdiction over these
purely local objects, in my judgment manifested a wise
forecast and broad comprehension of the true interests of
these objects themselves. It is clear that public charities
within the States can be efficiently administered only by
their authority. The bill before me concedes this, for it
does not commit the funds it provides to the administration of any other authority.
"I can not but repeat what I have before expressed, that
if the several States, many of which have already laid
the foundation of munificent establishments of local beneficence, and nearly all of which are proceeding to establish them, shall be led to suppose, as, should this bill become a law, they will be, that Congress is to make provision for such objects, the fountains of charity will be dried
up at home, and the several States, instead of bestowing
their own means on the social wants of their own people,
may themselves, through the strong temptation which
appeals to states as to individuals, become humble suppliants for the'bounty of the Federal Government, reversing their true relations to this Union.
"I have been unable to discover any.distinction on constitutional grounds or grounds of expediency between an
appropriation of $10,000,000 directly from the money in

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

301 U. S

the Treasury for the object contemplated and the appropriation of lands presented for my sanction, and yet I can
not doubt that if the bill proposed $10,000,000 from the
Treasury ol the United States for the support of the indigent insane in the several States that the constitutional
question involved in the act would have attracted forcibly
the attention of Congress.
"I respectfully submit that in a constitutional point of
view it is wholly immaterial whether the appropriation be
in money or in land.
"To assume that the public lands are applicable to
ordinary State objects, whether of public structures, police, charity, or expenses of State administration, would
be to disregard to the amount of the value of the public
lands all the limitations of the Constitution and confound
to that extent all distinctions between the rights and
powers of the States and those of the United States; for if
the public lands may be applied to the support of the
poor, whether sane or insane, if the disposal of them and
their proceeds be not subject to the ordinary limitations
of the Constitution, then Congress possesses unqualified
power to provide for expenditures in the States by means
of the public lands, even to the degree of defraying the
salaries of governors, judges, and all other expenses of
the government and internal administration within the
several States.
"The conclusion from the general survey of the whole
subject is to my mind irresistible, and closes the question
both of right and of expediency so far as regards the principle of the appropriation proposed in this bill. Would
not the admission of such power in Congress to dispose of
the public domain work the practical abrogation of some
of the most important provisions of the Constitution?

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS
548

SUTHERLAND,

J., dissenting.

"The general result at which I have arrived is the necessary consequence of those views of the relative rights,
powers, and duties of the States and of the Federal Government which I have long entertained and often expressed and in reference to which my convictions do but
increase in force with time and experience."
No defense is offered for the legislation under review
upon the basis of emergency. The hypothesis is that hereafter it will continuously benefit unemployed members of
a class. Forever, so far as we can see, the States are expected to function under federal direction concerning an
internal matter. By the sanction of this adventure, the
door is open for progressive inauguration of others of like
kind under which it can hardly be expected that the
States will retain genuine independence of action. And
without independent States a Federal Union as contemplated by the Constitution becomes impossible.
At the bar counsel asserted that under the present Act
the tax upon residents of Alabama during the first year
will total $9,000,000. All would remain in the Federal
Treasury but for the adoption by the State of measures
agreeable to the National Board. If continued, these will
bring relief from the payment of $8,000,000 to the United
States.
Ordinarily, I must think, a denial that the challenged
action of Congress and what has been done under it
amount to coercion and impair freedom of government by
the people of the State would be regarded as contrary to
practical experience. Unquestionably our federate plan
of government confronts an enlarged peril.
Separate opinion of MR. JusTIcE SUTHERLAND.
With most of what is said in the opinion just handed
down, I concur. I agree that the payroll tax levied is an
excise within the power of Congress; that the devotion of
146212°-37-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
SUTHERLAND, J.,

dissenting.

301 U. S.

not more than 90% of it to the credit of employers in
states which require the payment of a similar tax under
so-called unemployment-tax laws is not an unconstitutional use of the proceeds of the federal tax; that the
provision making the adoption by the state of an unemployment law of a specified character a condition precedent to the credit of the tax does not render the law
invalid. I agree that the states are not coerced by the
federal legislatiQn into adopting unemployment legislation. The provisions of the federal law may operate to
induce the state to pass an employment law if it regards
such action to be in its interest. But that is not coercion.
If the act stopped here, I should accept the c6nclusion of
the court that the legislation is not unconstitutional.
But the question with which I have difficulty is whether
the administrative provisions of the act invade the governmental administrative powers of the several states
reserved by the Tenth Amendment. A state may enter
into contracts; but a state cannot, by contract or statute,
surrender the execution, or a share in the execution, of
any of its governmental powers either to a sister state or
to the federal government, any more than the federal government can surrender the control of any of its governmental powers to a foreign nation. The power to tax is
vital and fundamental, and, in the highest degree, governmental in character. Without it, the state could not
exist. Fundamental also, and no less important, is the
governmental power to expend the moneys realized from
taxation, and exclusively to administer the laws in respect
of the character of the tax and the methods of laying and
collecting it and expending the proceeds.
The people of the United States, by their Constitution,
have affirmed a division of internal governmental powers
between the federal government and the governments of
the several states-committing to the first its powers by
express grant and necessary implication; to the latter, or

"STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS.
548

SUTHERLAND,

J., dissenting.

to the people, by reservation, "the powers not delegated
to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited
by it to the States." The Constitution thus affirms the
complete supremacy and independence of the state within
the field of its powers. Carter v. Carter Coal Co., 298
U. S. 238, 295. The federal government has no more authority to invade that field than the state has to invade
the exclusive field of national governmental powers; for,
in the oft-repeated words of this court in Texas v. White,
7 Wall. 700, 725, "the preservation of the States, and the
maintenance of their governments, are as much within
the design and care of the Constitution as the preservation of the Union and the maintenance of the National
Government." The necessity of preserving each from
every form of illegitimate intrusion or interference on
the part of the other is so imperative as to require this
court, when its judicial power is properly invoked, to view
with a careful and discriminating eye any legislation
challenged as constituting such an intrusion or interference. See South Carolina v. United States, 199 U. S.
437, 448.
The precise question, therefore, which we are required
to answer by an application of these principles is whether
the congressional act contemplates a surrender by the
state to the federal government, in whole or in part, of
any state governmental power to administer its own unemployment law or the state payroll-tax funds which it
has collected for the purposes of that law. An affirmative
answer to this question, I think, must be made.
I do not, of course, doubt the power of the state to
select and utilize a depository for the safekeeping of
its funds; but it is quite another thing to agree with
the selected depository that the funds shall be withdrawn
for certain stipulated purposes, and for no other. Nor
do I doubt the authority of the federal government and a
state government to coSperate to a common end, pro-

612

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
SUTHERLAND,

J., dissenting.

301 U. S.

vided each of them is authorized to reach it. But such
coperation must be effectuated by an exercise of the
powers which they severally possess, and not by an exercise, through invasion or surrender, by one of them of
the governmental power of the other.
An illustration of what I regard as permissible co8peration is to be found in Title I of the act now under
consideration. By that title, federal appropriations for
old-age assistance are authorized to be made to any state
which shall have adopted a plan for old-age assistance
conforming to designated requirements. But the state
is not obliged, as a condition of having the federal bounty,
to deposit in the federal treasury funds raised by the
state. The state keeps its own funds and administers its
own law in respect of them, without let or hindrance of
any kind on the part of the federal government; so that
we have simply the familiar case of federal aid upon
conditions which the state, without surrendering any of
its powers, may accept or not as it chooses. Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447, 480, 482-483.
But this is not the situation with which we are called
upon to deal in the present case. For here, the state must
deposit the proceeds of its taxation in the federal treasury,
upon terms which make the deposit suspiciously like a
forced loan to be repaid only in accordance with restrictions imposed by federal law. Title IX, §§ 903 (a) (3),
904 (a), (b), (e). All moneys withdrawn from this fund
must be used exclusively for the payment of compensation. § 903 (a) (4). And this compensation is to be paid
through public employment offices in the state or such
other agencies as a federal board may approve. § 903
(a) (1). The act, it is true, recognizes [§ 903 (a) (6)]
the power of the legislature to amend or repeal its compensation law at any time. But there is nothing in the
act, as I read it, which justifies the conclusion that the
state may, in that event, unconditionally withdraw its

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS.
548

SUTHERLAND,

J., dissenting.

funds from the federal treasury. Section 903 (b) provides that the board shall certify in each taxable year to
the Secretary of the Treasury each state whose law has
been approved. But the board is forbidden to certify any
state which the board finds has so changed its law that
it no longer contains the provisions specified in subsection
(a), "or has with respect to such taxable year failed to
comply substantially with any such provision." The federal government, therefore, in the person of its agent, the
board, sits not only as a perpetual overseer, interpreter
and censor of state legislation on the subject, but, as lord
paramount, to determine whether the state is faithfully
executing its own law-as though the state were a dependency under pupilage * and not to be trusted. The foregoing, taken in connection with the provisions that money
withdrawn can be used only in payment of compensation
and that it must be paid through an agency approved by
the federal board, leaves it, to say the least, highly uncertain whether the right of the state to withdraw any part
of its own funds exists, under the act, otherwise than upon
these various statutory conditions. It is true also that subsection (f) of § 904 authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to pay to any state agency "such amount as it may
duly requisition, not exceeding the amount standing to
the account of such State agency at the time of such payment." But it is to be observed that the payment is to
be made to the state agency, and only such amount as that
agency may duly requisition. It is hard to find in this
provision any extension of the right of the state to withdraw its funds except in the manner and for the specific
purpose prescribed by the act.
By these various provisions of the act, the federal
agencies are authorized to supervise and hamper the
administrative powers of the state to a degree which not
only does not comport with the dignity of a quasi-soy*

Compare Snow v. United States, 18 Wall. 317, 319-320

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
SUTHERLAND,

J., dissenting.

301 U. S.

ereign state-a matter with which we are not judicially
concerned-but which denies to it that supremacy and
freedom from external interference in respect of its affairs which the Constitution contemplates-a matter of
very definite judicial concern. I refer to some, though
by no means all, of the cases in point.
In the License Cases, 5 How. 504, 588, Mr. Justice
McLean said that the federal government was supreme
within the scope of its delegated powers, and the state
governments equally supreme in the exercise of the
powers not delegated by nor inhibited to them; that the
states exercise their powers over everything connected
with their social and internal condition; and that over
these subjects the federal government had no power.
"They appertain to the State sovereignty as exclusively
as powers exclusively delegated appertain to the general
government."
In Tarble's Case, 13 Wall. 397, Mr. Justice Field, after
pointing out that the general government and the state
are separate and distinct sovereignties, acting separately
and independently of each other within their respective
spheres, said that, except in one particular, they stood
in the same independent relation to each other as they
would if their authority embraced distinct territories.
The one particular referred to is that of the supremacy
of the authority of the United States in case of conflict
between the two.
In Farringtonv. Tennessee, 95 U. S. 679, 685, this
court said, "Yet every State has a sphere of action where
the authority of the national government may not intrude. Within that domain the State is as if the union
were not. Such are the checks and balances in our complicated but wise system of State and national polity."
"The powers exclusively given to the federal government," it was said in Worcester v. Georgia, 6 Pet. 515,
570, "are limitations upon the state authorities. But,

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS.
548

SUTHERLAND,

J., dissenting.

with the exception of these limitations, the states are
supreme; and their sovereignty can be no more invaded
'by the action of the general government, than the action
of the state governments can arrest or obstruct the course
of the national power."
The force of what has been said is not broken by an
acceptance of the view that the state is not coerced
by the federal law. The effect of the dual distribution
of powers is completely to deny to the states whatever
is granted exclusively to the nation, and, conversely, to
deny to the nation whatever is reserved exclusively to
the states. "The determination of the Framers Convention and the ratifying conventions to preserve complete
and unimpaired state self-government in all matters not
committed to the general government is one of the plainest facts which emerge from the history of their deliberations. And adherence to that determination is incumbent equally upon the federal government and the states.
State powers can neither be appropriated on the one hand
nor abdicated on the other." Carter v. Carter Coal Co.,
supra, p. 295. The purpose of the Constitution in that
regard does not admit of doubt or qualification; and it
can be thwarted no more by voluntary surrender from
within than by invasion from without.
Nor may the constitutional objection suggested be overcome by the expectation of public benefit resulting from
the federal participation authorized by the act. Such expectation, if voiced in support of a proposed constitutional enactment, would be quite proper for the consideration of the lgislative bQdy. But, as we said in the Carter
case, supra, p. 291-"nothing is more certain than that
beneficent aims, however great or well directed, can never
serve in lieu of constitutional power." Moreover, everything which the act seeks to do for the relief of unemployment might have been accomplished, as is done by this
same act for the relief of the misfortunes of old age, with-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

301 U. S.

out obliging the state to surrender, or share with another
government, any of its powers.,
If we are to survive as the United States, the balance
between the powers of the nation and those of the states
must be maintained. There is grave danger in permitting
it to dip in either direction, danger-if there were no
other-in the precedent thereby set for further departures
from the equipoise. The threat implicit in the present
encroachment upon the administrative functions of the
states is that greater encroachments, and encroachments
upon other functions, will follow.
For the foregoing reasons, I think the judgment below
should be reversed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

MR.

JUSTICE BUTLER,

joins in this opinion.

dissenting.

I think that the objections to the challenged enactment

expressed in the separate opinions of MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS and MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND are well taken.
I am also of opinion that, in principle and as applied to
bring about and to gain control over state unemployment
compensation, the statutory scheme is repugnant to the
Tenth Amendment: "The powers not delegated to the
United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it
to the States, are reserved to the States respectively,
or to the people." The Constitution grants to the United
States no power to pay unemployed persons or to require
the States to enact laws or to raise or disburse money
for that purpose. The provisions in question, if not
amounting to coercion in a legal sense, are manifestly
designed and intended directly to affect state action in the
respects specified. And, if valid as so employed, this
"tax and credit" device may be made effective to enable
federal authorities to induce, if not indeed to compel,
state enactments for any purpose within the realm of

STEWARD MACHINE CO. v. DAVIS.
548

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

state power, and generally to control state administration of state laws.
The Act creates a Social Security Board and imposes
upon it the duty of studying and making recommendations
as to legislation and as to administrative policies concerning unemployment compensation and related subjects.
§ 702. It authorizes grants of money by the United States
to States for old age assistance, for administration of unemployment compensation, for aid to dependent children,
for maternal and child welfare and for public health.
Each grant depends upon state compliance with conditions prescribed by federal authority. The amounts given
being within the discretion of the Congress, it may at
any time make available federal money sufficient effectively to influence state policy, standards and details of
administration.
The excise laid by § 901 is limited to specified employers. It is not imposed to raise money to pay unemployment compensation. But it is imposed having regard to
that subject; for, upon enactment of state laws for that
purpose in conformity with federal requirements specified
in the Act, each of the employers subject to the federal
tax becomes entitled to credit for the amount he pays
into an unemployment fund under a state law up to 90
per cent. of the federal tax. The amounts yielded by the
remaining 10 per cent., not assigned to any specific purpose, may be applied to pay the federal contributions and
expenses in respect of state unemployment compensation.
It is not yet possible to determine more closely the sums
that will be needed for these purposes.
When the federal Act was passed Wisconsin was the
only State paying unemployment compensation. Though
her plan then in force is by students of the subject generally deemed the best yet devised, she found it necessary
to change her law in order to secure federal approval. In
the absence of that, Wisconsin employers subject to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

301 U. S.

federal tax would not have been allowed any deduction
on account of their contribution to the state fund. Any
State would be moved to conform to federal requirements,
not utterly objectionable, in order to save its taxpayers
from the federal tax imposed in addition to the contributions under state laws.
Federal agencies prepared and took draft bills to state
legislatures to enable and induce them to pass laws providing for unemployment compensation in accordance
with federal requirements, and thus to obtain relief for
the employers from the impending federal exaction. Obviously the Act creates the peril of federal tax not to raise
revenue but to persuade. Of course, each State was free
to reject any measure so proposed. But, if it failed to
adopt a plan acceptable to federal authority, the full burden of the federal tax would be exacted. And, as federal
demands similarly conditioned may be increased from
time to time as Congress shall determine, possible federal
pressure in that field is without limit. Already at least
43 States, yielding to the inducement resulting immediately from the application of the federal tax and credit
device, have provided for unemployment compensation
in form to merit approval of the Social Security Board.
Presumably the remaining States will comply whenever
convenient for their legislatures to pass the necessary laws.
The terms of the measure make it clear that the tax and
credit device was intended to enable federal officers virtually to control the exertion of powers of the States in a
field in which they alone have jurisdiction and from which
the United States is by the Constitution excluded.
I am of opinion that the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals should be reversed.

