AETNA INS. CO. v. KENNEDY.
385

Syllabus.

participate in, the conduct of the selling enterprise contemplated by the contract. There is to be found in the
operation of the business no essential characteristic of
corporate control-nothing analogous to a board of directors or shareholders, no exemption from personal liability, no issue of transferrable certificates of interest.
There is simply the common relation of principal and
agent, coupled with the collateral incidents of an ordinary
trust. We are not able to find in the situation an "association" within the meaning of the statute under consideration, because there are no associates and no feature
"making [the trust] analogous to a corporate organization." 296 U. S. at p. 359.
Judgment reversed.
AETNA INSURANCE CO. v. KENNEDY TO THE USE OF
BOGASH.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 753. Argued April 30, 1937.-Decided May 17, 1937.
1. Every reasonable presumption is indulged against waiver of the
right of trial.by jury. P.393.
2. A case is not taken from the jury and submitted to the court
for decision of fact as well as of law, if, accompanying the request
of the parties for peremptory instructions, there are other requests
in which are reasonably to be implied requests to go to the jury
if a peremptory instruction be denied. P. 393.
3. Where the District Court denied the parties' motions for directed
. verdicts without reserving any question of law, and unconditional
verdicts were returned for defendants, held that neither that court
nor the Circuit Court of Appeals had jurisdiction to find or
* Together with No. 754, Springfield Fire & Marine Insurance Co.
v. Kennedy to the, use of Bogash; and No. 755, Liverpool & London
& Globe Insurance Co. v. Kennedy to the use of Bogash. On
writs of Certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit.

390

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

adjudge that notwithstanding the verdicts plaintiff was entitled to
recover. Slocum v. New York Life Ins. Co., 228 U. S. 364, 387.
Baltimore & C. Line v. Redman, 295 U. S. 364, distinguished.
P. 394.
4. Under the Conformity Act, the District Courts follow the practice authorized by state statutes if there be nothing in them that
is incongruous with the organization or the fundamental procedure of those courts, or in conflict with Congressional enactment.
P. 394.
5. The Conformity Act does not extend to the Circuit Court of
Appeals. P. 395.
6. In Pennsylvania, a party who would invoke the power of the trial
court to enter judgment non obstante veredicto under Act of
April 22, 1905, P. L. 286, should move for such a judgment, not
merely for a new trial. P. 394.
7. A mortgagee clause in a fire policy creates a contract of insurance
between the mortgagee and the insurer upon the mortgagee's
separate interest. P. 395.
8. Policies of fire insurance, taken out by a second mortgagee but
insuring also the first mortgagee, were surrendered by the former,
and canceled without notice to the latter. Evidence held insufficient to prove that this was done with the latter's consent. P. 396.
87 F. (2d) 684, modified.

300 U. S. 651, to review judgments of the
Circuit Court of Appeals which reversed judgments of
the District Court for the insurers in actions on policies
of fire insurance, and which remanded the cases to the
District Court with instructions to enter judgments for
the insured. See also 87 F. (2d) 683.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Horace M. Schell, with whom Messrs. Harry S.
Ambler, Jr., and Robert T. McCracken were on the brief,

for petitioners.
Mr. Harry Shapiro for respondent.

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.

Kennedy had a first mortgage, and a bank a second
mortgage, on old brewery property in Pennsylvania owned

AETNA INS. CO. v. KENNEDY.
389

Opinion of the Court.

by a distilling company. The bank procured from petitioners fire insurance policies covering the building.
Each policy states it is understood that the insured building is under foreclosure by the bank; the premium being
paid by the bank, it is agreed that, in event of loss, same
will be adjusted with the bank and paid to it and Kennedy, mortgagee, as interest may appear. Each provides
for cancelation upon request of the insured and that the
company may cancel by giving insured five days' written
notice. It includes the standard mortgagee clause which
provides: Loss or damage shall be payable to Kennedy
as mortgagee as interest may appear; insurance as to the
interest of the mortgagee shall not be invalidated by any
act of the mortgagor or owner; in case the mortgagor or
owner shall neglect to pay premium the mortgagee shall,
on demand, pay the same. The company reserves the
right to cancel the policy at any time as provided by its
terms, but in such case the policy is to continue in force
for the benefit of the mortgagee for ten days after notice
to him.
After the bid at sheriff's sale in the foreclosure proceedings, the bank abandoned its interest in the property as
worthless, notified Kennedy that it intended to cancel the
policies and suggested that he buy them. He declined
to do so or to pay the bank any part of the premiums and
expressed intention not to advance any money in respect
of the insured building. The bank surrendered the
policies for cancelation; petitioners paid it the unearned
premiums. Later, and within the period for which petitioners had insured it, the building burned. Bogash acquired Kennedy's interest and, to recover on the policies,
brought these suits. Upon the statements of claim and
affidavits of defense, there arose questions whether Kennedy consented to or acquiesced in the surrender and
cancelation of the policies and whether they were in force
when the loss occurred or had been surrendered and canceled before that time.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U.S.

The parties, having introduced their evidence and
agreed that the amount of the loss was $11,000, submitted
their points for charge to the jury. Plaintiff requested
the court to instruct the jury in respect of notice to Kennedy of cancelation and surrender of the policies, and
consent by him that they be canceled, and to direct verdicts in favor of plaintiff for the agreed amount. Defendants requested the court to instruct the jury in respect of the right of cancelation under the policies; that,
if the jury should find facts specified in the proposed instructions, its verdicts *should be for defendants, and to
direct the jury that, upon the pleadings and evidence,
the verdicts must be for defendants. The court refused
to direct for plaintiff or defenrdants and, without reserving for later consideration the requests for directed verdicts or any question of law, submitted the cases to the
jury. It found for defendants. Plaintiff filed motions
for new trial but did not move for judgments non obstante
veredicto. The court denied the motions and entered
judgments for defendants.
Plaintiff appealed; the Circuit Court of Appeals held
the trial court erred in refusing to charge on points concerning notice of cancelation to Kennedy, reversed the
judgments of the district court and ordered new trials.
87 F. (2d) 683. But on plaintiff's application for rehearing it held that, by their requests for peremptory
instructions, plaintiff and defendants assumed the facts
to be undisputed and submitted to the trial judge the
determination of the inferences to be drawn from the
evidence and so took the cases from the jury. The court
also held that the evidence was not sufficient to sustain
verdicts for defendants, denied the petition for rehearing
and remanded the cases to the district court with directions to give plaintiff judgments for the agreed amount
of the loss. 87 F. (2d) 684.
Questions presented are: Whether, by their request for
directed verdicts, the parties waived their right to trial

AETNA INS. CO. v. KENNEDY.
389

Opinion of the Court.

by jury; whether, by reversing the judgments for defendants and directing judgments for plaintiff, the Circuit
Court of Appeals deprived defendants of that right; and
whether the evidence was sufficient to sustain a finding
that Kennedy consented to the cancelation of the policies.
1. The Circuit Court of Appeals erred in holding that,
by their requests for peremptory instructions, the parties
took the cases from the jury and applied to the judge for
decision of the issues of fact as well as of law. 'The established rule is that where plaintiff and defendant respectively request peremptory instructions, and do nothing
more, they thereby assume the facts to be undisputed
and in effect submit to the trial judge the determination
of the inferences properly to be drawn from them. And
upon review a finding of fact by the trial court under such
circumstances must, stand if the record discloses substantial evidence to support it." But, as the right of jury
trial is fundamental, courts indulge every reasonable presumption against waiver.2 And unquestionably the parties respectively may request a peremptory instruction
and, upon refusal of the court to direct a verdict, have
submitted to the jury all issues as to which opposing inferences may be drawn from the evidence.' Here neither
the plaintiff nor the defendants applied for directed verdicts without more. With their requests for peremptory
instructions they submitted other requests that reason'Beutell. v. Magone, 157 U. S. 154, 157. Sena v. America Turquoise
Co., 220 U. S. 497, 501. American Nat. Bank v. Miller, 229 U. S.
517, 520. Williams v. Vreeland, 250 U. S. 295, 298. Oppenheimer v.
Harriman Nat. Bank, ante, pp. 206, 208.
2 Hodges v. Easton, 106 U. S. 408, 412.
Slocum v. New York Life
Ins. Co., 228 U. S. 364, 385. Patton v. United States, 281 U. S. 276,
312. Dimick v. Schiedt, 293 U. S. 474, 486. Foust v. Munson S. S.
Line, 299 U. S. 77, 84.
'Empire State Cattle Co. v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 210
U. S. 1, 8. Sampliner v. Motion Picture Patents Co., 254 U. S. 233,
239.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

ably may be held to amount to applications that, if a
peremptory instruction were not given, the cases be submitted to the jury. Indeed, we find nothing in the
record to support the view that the parties waived their
right of trial by jury or authorized the judge to decide
any issue of fact.
2. The verdicts were taken unconditionally. Plaintiff
moved for new trials but not for judgments. The court
denied her motions and entered judgments for defendants. The Circuit Court of Appeals had jurisdiction to
reverse and remand for new trials but was without
power, consistently with the Seventh Amendment, to direct the trial court to give judgments for plaintiff. And,
as before submission of the case to the jury the trial
court denied plaintiff's motion for directed verdicts without reserving any question of law, neither that court nor
the Circuit Court of Appeals had jurisdiction to find or
adjudge that notwithstanding the verdicts plaintiff was
entitled to recover. Slocum v. New York Life Ins. Co.,
228 U. S. 364, 387. Our decision in Baltimore & Carolina
Line v. Redman, 295 U. S. 654, is not applicable.
There is another reason why the direction of judgments
for plaintiff cannot stand. Under the Conformity Act,
28 U. S. C., § 724, federal courts follow the practice authorized by state statutes if there be nothing in them
that is incongruous with their organization or their fundamental procedure or in conflict with congressional enactment.4 The applicable Pennsylvania statute provides
that whenever, upon the trial of any cause, a point
requesting binding instructions has been reserved or de4Henderson v. Louisville & N. R. Co., 123 U. S. 61, 64. Amy v.
Watertown, No. 1., 130 U. S. 30, 304. Barrett v. Virginian Ry. Co.,
250 U. S. 473, 475. Baltimore & CarolinaLine v. Redman, 295 U. S.
654, 658. Cf. Nudd v. Burrows, 91 U. S. 420, 441. Indianapolis &
St. L. R. Co. v. Horst, 93 U. S. 291, 300.

AETNA INS. CO. v. KENNEDY.
389

395

Opinion of the Court.

clined, the party presenting the point may move the
court for judgment non obstante veredicto; whereupon it
shall be the duty of the court, if it does not grant a new
trial, to enter such judgment as should have been entered
upon the evidence. From the judgment thus entered
either party may appeal to the supreme or superior
court, which shall review the action of the court below,
and enter such judgment as shallbe warranted by the
evidence taken in that court." As plaintiff failed to make
appropriate motions in accordance with Pennsylvania
practice, the district court did not err in failing to give
plaintiff judgments notwithstanding the verdicts.' The
Conformity Act does not extend to the Circuit Court of
Appeals." In the absence of motions for judgments notwithstanding the verdict in the lower court, the appellate
court was without authority to direct entry of judgments
for plaintiff.
3. Was the evidence sufficient to sustain a finding that,
as to Kennedy's interest, the insurance terminated before
the fire? As the ,period for which the policies were
written had not expired when the loss occurred, defendants had the burden to show that the insurance was not
in force at that time. Kennedy was not merely a designated beneficiary to whom was payable, as specified, insurance obtained by the bank. The mortgagee clause
created a contract of insurance between him and the company and effected separate insurance upon his interest
5Act of April 22, 1905, P.. L. 286; 12 Purdon's Penna. Statutes
Annotated, § 681. Quoted in Slocum v. New York Life Ins. Co., 228
U. S. 364, 375-376.
6 West v. Manatawny Mut. F. & S. Ins. Co., 277 Pa. 102; 120 Atl.
763. Cox v. Roehler, 316 Pa. 417, 419-420; 175 Atl. 417.
7 Camp v. Gress, 250 U. S. 308, 318.
8Syndicate Ins. Co. v. Bohn, 65 Fed. 165, 178. Insurance Co. v.
International Trust Co., 71 Fed. 88, 91. Newark Fire Ins. Co. v.
Turk, 6 F. (2d) 533, 535. Westchester Fire Ins. Co. v. Norfolk

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

Defendants do not claim that they gave Kennedy any
notice of intention to cancel his insurance or that the
policies had been surrendered by the bank in accordance
with their terms or otherwise.
The evidence shows: After bids were received at foreclosure sale the bank's attorney asked Kennedy to take
over the policies and, upon his refusal so to do or to pay
the bank anything on account of unearned premiums,
informed him that the bank intended to surrender the
policies. He expressed no objection, authorization or
consent. There is no evidence that before the fire Kennedy had been notified by the bank or by the defendants,
or knew, that the bank had surrendered the policies or
received return premiums or that defendants attempted to cancel his insurance. The evidence is not
enough to support a finding that he intended the building to become or remain uninsured or authorize the bank
to act for him in respect of his insurance, or that he consented to, acquiesced in or ratified the surrender or cancelation of the policies. Defendants do not claim that
they canceled Kennedy's insurance by giving him notice
in accordance with the policies. The Circuit Court of
Appeals rightly reversed the judgments of the district
court but erroneously directed judgments for plaintiff.
The judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals are accordingly modified by eliminating the directions to enter
judgments for plaintiff and by substituting orders for
new trials.
Judgments modified.
Building & Loan Assn., 14 F. (2d) 524, 526. Queen Ins. Co. v. People's
Union Say. Bank, 50 F. (2d) 63, 64. Kimberley & Carpenter v.
Fireman'sFund Ins. Co., 78 F. (2d) 62, 64. 4 Joyce, Law of Insurance, 2nd ed., § 2795, p. 4776. Richards, Law of Insurance, 4th ed.,
§ 279, p. 478. Vance on Insurance, 2nd ed., § 170, p. 657.

