OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Counsel for Parties.

SOUTHERN NATURAL GAS CORP.

301 U. S.
ET AL. V.

ALABAMA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ALABAMA.

No. 570. Argued March 10, 1937.-Decided April 26, 1937.
1. A tax cn a foreign corporation for the privilege of doing local
business and measured on its property owned in the State, is not
invalid because a part of that property is used by it in interstate
commerce, there being no direct burden on interstate commerce,
and the effect thereon being incidental and remote. P. 156.
2. An Alabama law imposes on foreign corporations doing business in
the State an annual "franchise tax" of $2.00 on each $1,000 of
the capital employed in the State. Held consistent with the
commerce clause and valid, as applied to a Delaware corporation
qualified to do business in Alabama and maintaining its commercial domicile there, and whose business consisted in purchasing
natural gas in Louisiana and Mississippi gas fields, transporting
it through its pipe line system, part of which was in Alabama, and
selling it in Alabama and other States. The gas moved continuously from the gas .fields under natural pressure to the points
of delivery. Of the gas delivered in Alabama, part went to public
utility distributors, but the rest was sold for consumption in
divers industrial plants, delivery to them being made upon orders,
as required, through service lines installed and maintained by the
corporation, after it had reduced the pressure of the gas and had
metered it. P. 153.
203 Ala. 81; 170 So. 178, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment sustaining a tax and reversing
the state circuit court, which had held otherwise on an
appeal from the assessment.

Messrs. Forney Johnston and Joseph F. Johnston for
appellants.
Mr. Frontis H. Moore, with whom'Messrs. A. A. Car-

michael, Attorney General of Alabama, and Noel T.
Dowling were on the brief, for appellee.

SOUTHERN GAS CORP. v. ALABAMA.
148

149

Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This case presents the question of the validity of a
franchise tax assessed pursuant to a statute of the State
of Alabama upon the Southern Natural Gas Corporation.
The imposition of the tax was assailed as a direct burden
upon interstate commerce and as also depriving the corporation of its property without due process of law and
denying it the equal protection of the laws contrary to
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution.
The Supreme Court of the State sustained the tax (170
So. 178) and the case comes here on appeal.
The statute, enacted in pursuance of § 232 of the state
constitution, is § 54 of Act No. 163, General Acts of Alabama, 1927, page 176, and provides:
"That every corporation organized under the laws of
any other state, nation, or territory, and doing business
in this State, except strictly benevolent, educational or
religious corporations, shall pay annually to the State an
annual franchise tax of Two dollars ($2.00) on each One
Thousand Dollars of the actual amount of capital employed in this State."
The assessment was made by the State Tax Commission for the year 1931 in the sum of $11,047.43 and was
said to be based upon capital employed in Alabama
amounting to $5,523,715. Appellant resisted the assessment upon the ground that it was not doing business
and did not propose to do business in the State of Alabama except in interstate commerce and that the property by which the tax was measured was used exclusively
in interstate commerce.
The case was submitted upon an agreed statement
from which the following facts appear:
Appellant was organized prior to May 12, 1928, under
the laws of Delaware and on that date it qualified to do

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
.Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

business in Alabama. It named a statutory agent and
filed in the office of the Secretary of State a copy of its
charter which covered a wide range of activities.1 It has
paid annually the required permit fee. At the time of
the assessment in question appellant maintained its office
and chief place of business in the city of Birmingham,
Alabama. The entire management, control and conduct
of its business was conducted from that office.
Appellant is engaged in the transmission and distribution of gas which it purchases from the producers in the
Louisiana and Mississippi fields. In May, 1929, it began
the construction of its pipe lines and by January, 1931,
it had constructed its main lines from the Louisiana
fields to Atlanta and Columbus, Georgia, the Columbus
line turning south from the Atlanta line at a point near
Tuscaloosa, Alabama. In 1931, appellant owned approximately 564 miles of pipe and various items of real and
personal property located within Alabama, all constituting part of its general transmission system. It was agreed
that in the event that it should be held that all of appellant's property located in the State was subject to the
assessment of a franchise tax, the value of that property
as of January 1 to May 13, 1931, the date of the final
assessment, was $5,500,000.
Appellant had contracts for the delivery of natural
gas in Alabama to only four purchasers. Three were intrastate utilities in Alabama, the Alabama Natural Gas
Corporation, the Southern Cities Public Service Com'The charter authorized appellant to store, transport, buy and sell
oil, gas, salt, brine and other mineral solutions; to manufacture, acquire, distribute, use and sell artificial gas, with by-products; to mine,
produce, buy, use, sell and distribute natural gas, with by-jroducts;
to produce, buy, use, sell and distribute a mixture of artificial and
natural ga§; to construct, acquire and operate all works and all pipe

lines, mains, plants, systems, etc. for the above purposes, with the
power of eminent domain; to acquire, manufacture and deal in ice.

SOUTHERN GAS CORP. v. ALABAMA.
148

151

Opinion of the Court.

pany and the Birmingham Gas Company. These companies were not consumers but were engaged, either directly or through subsidiaries, in the distribution of natural gas as public utilities in the State of Alabama. The
fourth purchaser was the Tennessee Coal, Iron & Railroad Company, a subsidiary of the United States Steel
Corporation, which purchased gas for.itself and affiliated
companies operating steel and industrial plants in the
Birmingham district and which were not public utilities
but consumers. A majority of orders for gas were received by and cleared through the Birmingham office; all
collections for sales were received and disbursements for
expenses were made or authorized at that office. The
sales to the Tennessee Company and its affiliates were
made from time to time upon orders given by the Birmingham office as the needs of the purchasers required.
The gas sold to the above-named purchasers was delivered in continuous movement from the gas fields in
Louisiana or Mississippi without break or interruption,
to the point where it was delivered, viz., the meter house
at which the gas so sold was measured for the purpose of
payment. The gas was moved under unregulated gas
pressure, as produced by the natural pressure of the gas
wells, to the designated points of delivery. The stipulation of facts also states that in the sales to the Tennessee
Company and its affiliates the pressure is reduced at the
point of delivery for the accommodation of the purchaser
to meet its needs and requirements. The general practice
is thus described in appellant's brief: "All gas delivered
in Alabama moved under main line pressure in continuous movement from the wells in Louisiana to the immediate point of delivery in Alabama, where it was reduced
in pressure and measured for the sole purpose of effecting
delivery." 2
'Appellant makes an explanatory statement in a foot note as follows: "It is a matter of general knowledge that long distance trans-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

The agreed statement set forth appellant's contracts
with the Alabama Natural Gas Corporation and the Tennessee Company, respectively. These contained detailed
provisions as to delivery, pressure, measurement, etc. In
the contract with the Tennessee Company provision was
made for the establishment of service lines to the consuming plants, as follows, appellant being described as
"Seller":
"Seller shall at its own expense provide in advance of
the initial delivery date of March 1, 1930, service lines
of suitable size to a point mutually agreed upon on the
property of Buyer's Bessemer plant. To reach Buyer's
Fairfield Plant Seller shall provide a service line that will
cross Buyer's Ensley property and run in a southwesterly
direction on the property of Buyer to some point mutually agreed upon, on Buyer's Fairfield premises. Buyer
agrees .that it will make no charge for right of way for
any part of the service lines traversing its property. A
suitable meter will be provided for metering gas that may
be used in the Bessemer plant, in the Ensley plant and in
the Fairfield plant of the Buyer and the plants of other
subsidiary companies."
These plants, the state court said, were "widely separated." The contract also provides:
"The natural gas shall be delivered at a pressure of
not less than 30 pounds gauge at some mutually satisfactory location or locations upon the premises of Buyer,
and Seller shall there furnish, install, operate and maintain at its own expense regulating and measuring station
or stations properly equipped with orifice meters and recording gauges or other type of meter or meters of standmission of natural gas (appellant's system comprising about 1000
miles) moves under line pressure of approximately 400 pounds,
greatly in excess of the requirement or required tensile strength of the
distribution pipes of the utility or other purchasers from the long
distance transportation company."

SOUTHERN GAS CORP. v. ALABAMA.
148

153

Opinion of the Court.

ard style as may be mutually agreed upon conformable to
the current recommendations of Gas Measurements Committee of American Gas Association, the measurement by
which shall fix the total amount of natural gas delivered
by Seller to Buyer.
"The measuring equipment so installed by Seller, together with any building erected by it for such equipment, shall be and remain its property."
First.-The statute, which is challenged as here applied,
was under consideration in Anglo-Chilean Nitrate Sales
Corp. v. Alabama, 288 U. S. 218. In the light of the decisions of the Supreme Court of the State, this Court concluded that the tax was laid "not upon the authorization,
right or privilege to do business in Alabama, but upon the
actual doing of business." Id., p. 223. The tax was held
invalid as applied to a foreign corporation whose sole
business in the State consisted in the landing, storage and
sale in the original packages, of goods imported from
abroad. In the instant case the Supreme Court of the
State has reviewed its rulings and has expounded the
meaning of the statute. The state court holds that the
tax is a franchise tax laid "upon the right to do business."
It is a tax levied "on foreign corporations as a prerogative
to the right of exercise of its corporate functions in the
State." It "is not on any basis a tax on business" but is
laid "on the exercise of corporate functions, or on the
privilege of exercising corporate functions within the
State and its employment of its capital in Alabama."
By compliance with the statute appellant obtained the
privilege of engaging within the State in any of the
activities which its chfrter authorized.
Second.-Appellant made Bi'-mingham, Alabama, its
headquarters for the transaction of business.

The "entire

management" was conducted from its principal office .at
that place. There, as the state court said, was "the control of the business in all of its aspects." There orders

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

for deliveries of gas under its contracts and all collections
from sales were received and all disbursements were made
or authorized. While Delaware was the State of incorporation, appellant's commercial domicile was in
Alabama. Wheeling Steel Corp. v. Fox, 298 U. S.
193, 211.

From the agreed facts we are unable to conclude that
the business thus conducted in Alabama was entirely an
interstate business. While the gas which appellant sold
was brought into the State from Louisiana, it appears that
appellant carried on in Alabama activities of an intrastate character. We had occasion in East Ohio Gas Co.
v. Tax Commission, 283 U. S. 465, 470, to consider the
distinction between the transportation of gas into a State
and the furnishing of the gas so transported to consumers
within the State. We observed in that case that "when
the gas passes from the distribution lines into the supply
mains, it necessarily is relieved of nearly all the pressure
put upon it at the stations of the producing companies,"
its volume is expanded, and it is divided into the smaller
streams that enter the service lines connecting such mains
with the pipes on the consumer's premises. In that case,
the Ohio Company furnished gas to consumers in municipalities by means of distribution plants and that activity
was held to be not interstate commerce but a business of
purely local concern exclusively within the jurisdiction of
the State. The Court quoted with approval the statement in Missouri v. Kansas Gas Co., 265 U. S.298, 309,
that "The business of supplying, on demand, local consumers is a local business, even though the gas be brought
from another State and drawn for distribution plants
directly from interstate mains; and this is so whether the
local distribution be made by the transporting company
or by independent distributing companies. In such case
the local interest is paramount, and the interference with
interstate commerce, if any, indirect and of minor
importance."

SOUTHERN GAS CORP. v. ALABAMA.
148

155

Opinion of the Court.

While the facts of the two cases are not the same,
there is a clear analogy. For here under its contract with
the Tennessee Company, which bought for consumption by itself and its subsidiaries in industrial plants,
appellant agreed not simply to install metering stations,
for measuring the amount of gas delivered, but to establish the requisite service lines running to the described
plants in order that the gas might be furnished in a manner suited to the consumers' needs. The gas was supplied through these service lines on the orders received
from time to time at the Birmingham office. We perceive no essential distinction in law between the establishment of such a local activity to meet the needs'of
consumers in industrial plants and the service to consumers in the municipalities which was found in the Ohio
case to constitute an intrastate business. As was said
in that case: "The treatment and division of the large
compressed volume of gas is like the breaking of an original package, after a shipment in interstate commerce,
in order that its contents may be treated, prepared for
sale and sold at retail."
The facts thus distinguish the instant case from that
of Ozark Pipe Line Corp. v. Monier, 266 U. S. 555.
There the corporation operated a pipe line extending from
Oklahoma through Missouri to a point in Illinois. Missouri sought to tax the privilege of doing business within
the State. But nothing was done in Missouri except
in furtherance of transportation. Oil was neither received nor delivered in that State. The business actually
carried on "was exclusively in interstate commerce" and
whatever was done within Missouri in the maintenance
of an office or otherwise was "all exclusively in furtherance of its interstate business." Id., p. 565. In Missouri
v. Kansas Gas Co., supra, as noted above, the distinction was pointed out. There "the transportation, sale
and delivery" of the gas constituted an "unbroken chain,
fundamentally interstate from beginning to end." So,

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

the case of State Tax Commission v. Interstate Natural
Gas Co., 284 U. S. 41, rested upon the conclusion that
what was done was wholly incidental to interstate commerce between Louisiana and Mississippi. There were
no such local activities as are present here to carry the
transactions of the company into the field of state
authority.
That authority was held to be properly exerted in the
case of Atlantic Lumber Co. v. Commissioner, 298 U. S.
553. The corporation was organized in Delaware but it
did not "function there" but in Massachusetts. Thr
it established its office for the exercise of its corporate
powers. That was the headquarters for salesmen who
solicited orders in that and other States. There orders
were accepted and remittances received. The corporation was engaged in the wholesale lumber business and
owned practically all the stock of three subsidiaries, two
of which were engaged in cutting timber and manufacturing lumber in other States, and a third held title to timber iand$ in Louisiana. The court said that if appellant
did nothing but transact interstate business, the excise
tax sought to be levied with respect to the doing of business in Massachusetts could not stand, but in view of
the activities conducted in Massachusetts and the corporate functions there exercised, the court decided that
the privilege tax was valid and that the effect upon interstate commerce, so far as there was any,was "remote and
incidental." Because of the local activities, the decision
in the Ozark case was held to be inapplicable.
Third.-AsAlabama was competent to lay a franchise
tax upon appellant for the privilege of doing an intrastate
business, it was competent to measure the tax by the capital employed within the State provided the tax was not
so laid as to discriminate against interstate commerce or
otherwise lay a direct burden upon it. Postal Telegraph
Cable Co. v. Adams, 155 U. S. 688, 696; St. Louis South-

SOUTHERN GAS CORP. v. ALABAMA.
148

157

Opinion of the Court.

western Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350, 364-367;
Underwood Typewriter Co. v. Chamberlain, 254 U. S.
113, 119, 120; St. Louis-San FranciscoRy. Co. v. Middlekamp, 256 U. S. 226, 231; Hump Hairpin Co. v. Emmerson, 258 U. S. 290, 294; InternationalShoe Co. v. Shartel,
279 U. S. 429, 433; Western Cartridge Co. v. Emmerson,
281 U. S. 511, 513, 514; Atlantic Lumber Co. v. Commissioner, supra.
There is here no attempt to tax property that is beyond the boundaries of the State. The tax was laid only
upon property employed within the State and enforcement is left to the ordinary means of collecting taxes.
The rule was thus stated in International Shoe Co. v.
Shartel, supra: "A franchise tax imposed on a corporation, foreign or domestic, for the privilege of doing a
local business, if apportioned to business done or property owned within the State, is not invalid under the
commerce clause merely because a part of the property
or capital included in computing the tax is used by it in
interstate commerce." There is no showing of any direct
burden upon interstate commerce, the effect upon that
commerce being incidental and remote, not differing in
this respect from the effect of ordinary ad valorem taxation of property within the State. Postal Telegraph
Cable Co. v. Adams, supra; St. Louis Southwestern Ry.
Co. v. Arkansas, supra.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Alabama is
Affirmed.

