282

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

306 U. S.

It said"The crediting of the overpayments, by the Commissioner, against taxes due from the taxpayer for other
years was a matter of defense, a justification for the failure to refund, and not a matter which destroyed the taxpayer's cause of action or ousted the court of jurisdiction."
This conclusion we think is correct. Other points suggested, so far as presently important, are sufficiently answered by what has been said in No. 416.
Both of the challenged judgments must be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE REED

took no part in the consideration or

decision of either of these causes.
TITUS v. WALLICK.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF OHIO.

No. 188.

Argued January 30, 1939.-Decided February 27, 1939.

1. The right to enforce in a state court a judgment recovered in a
court of another State is one arising under Article IV, § 1 of the
Constitution and under a statute of the United States, t. S. § 905;
28 U. S. C. § 687. Since the existence of this right depends upon
the legal effect of the proceedings, and the validity of the judgment,
in the State in which it was rendered, the rulings upon those matters
by the court in which the judgment is sued upon are reviewable by
this Court. P. 287.
2. By the law of New York, an assignment of a chose in action for
the purpose of suit only and obligating the assignee to account for
the proceeds to another enables the assignee to sue in his own
name. P. 288.
3. This effect of an assignment in New York is not altered by adding
to the assignment a power of attorney to bring the suit. P. 289.
4. After recovering a judgment as lawful assignee of the original
cause of action the judgment creditor resisted a claim upon contract for a share of the judgment, made in another suit, by
representing that his interest had been assigned to others before
the contract and by concealing the fact that the cause of action

TITUS v. WALLICK.
282

Opinion of the Court.

had been reassigned to him for purposes of suit before the action
resulting in the judgment had been begun. Held not matter of
defense in a suit to collect the judgment in another State because
these circumstances did not impair the previous assignment of the
cause of action or deprive the judgment creditor of the authority to
maintain the suit, already conferred upon him by the reassignment.
P. 290.
5. When a state court refuses credit to the judgment of a sister State
because of its opinion of the nature of the cause of action or the
judgment in which it is merged, an asserted federal right is denied
and the sufficiency of the grounds of denial are for this Court to
decide. P. 291.
6. The Ccnstitut'on, Article IV, § 1, requires that credit be given a
money judgment recovered by the judgment creditor, as assignee
of a civil cause of action, in another State, even though the forum
might have declined to concede his right to sue as real party in
interest if the suit had been brought there upon the original assigned
claim. P. 291.
133 Ohio St. 612; 15 N. E. 2d 140, reversed.

305 U. S. 585, to review a judgment of the
court below, which dismissed, as involving no debatable
constitutional question, an appeal from an intermediate
appellate court of Ohio, which had affirmed a judgment
against the present petitioner in his suit on a New York
judgment.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Thomas I. Sheridan, with whom Messrs. Aaron

Frank and Lewis F. Glaser were on the brief, for peti-

tioner.
Mr. William M. Summer, with whom Messrs. Joseph
P. Tumulty, Sr., Joseph P. Tumulty, Jr., and William J.

Hughes, Jr. were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
The question for decision is whether the Supreme Court
of Ohio, by denying recovery upon a judgment procured
by petitioner against respondent in the courts of New

284

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U.S.

York, has failed to accord to the New York judgment
the full faith and credit which Article IV, § 1 of the
Constitution commands.
Petitioner brought the present suit against respondent
in the Ohio Court of Common Pleas upon a judgment
recovered by petitioner against respondent in the Supreme
Court of New York on May 1, 1934. Transcript of the
New York judgment for $389,103, duly authenticated in
conformity to the Act of Congress, R. S. § 905, 28 U. S. C.
§ 687, was filed with the petition in the Ohio court. Defenses interposed by respondent, so far as now material,
were that petitioner was not the real party in interest in
the Ohio suit and that the judgment had been procured
in New York by fraud on the court and on respondent,
in that petitioner was not the real party in interest entitled to assert the claim litigated in that suit as required
by § 210 of the New York Civil Practice Act, and that
petitioner, in procuring the judgment, suppressed and
withheld that fact from respondent and the New York
courts.
The Court of Common Pleas, after a trial without a
jury, sustained these defenses and gave judgment for
respondent, which the Ohio Court of Appeals for Franklin County affirmed, with an opinion in which it ruled
that the judgment sustaining the defenses did not deny
the New York judgment the full faith and credit required by the Constitution. Appeal to the Supreme
Court of Ohio assigning as error the denial of full faith
and credit to the New York judgment was dismissed on
the ground that the case involved "no debatable constitutional question." 133 Ohio St. 612; 15 N. E. 2d 140. We
granted certiorari, 305 U. S. 585, the constitutional question presented by the petition being of public importance
and the federal right asserted having been ruled upon
and denied by the highest court of the state. Matthews v.
Huwe, 269 U. S. 262; Tuiney v. Ohio, 273 U. S. 510, 515.

TITUS v. WALLICK.
282

Opinion of the Court.

Petitioner brought the New York suit in December,
1925, alleging that he was the owner of a quarter interest
in two hundred and fifty shares of the stock of an Ohio
corporation which respondent here, the defendant there,
had fraudulently appropriated to his own use. The relief sought was that respondent be directed to deliver to
petitioner certificates of stock representing his interest
in the corporation and to account for the dividends and
earnings on the stock received by respondent. Respondent appeared personally and defended the suit. It was
twice tried in the Supreme Court of New York and was
five times before the Appellate Division of the Supreme
Court, 222 App. Div. 17; 225 N. Y. S.263; 227 App. Div.
789; 237 N. Y. S. 908; 235 App. Div. 662; 225 N..Y. S.
905; 240 App. Div. 818; 266 N. Y. S.969; 244 App. Div.
789; 280 N. Y. S. 969, and once before the New York
Court of Appeals, 260 N. Y. 519; 184 N. E. 75, which
affirmed a judgment establishing the liability of respondent. An accounting, at the end of nine years of litigation,
resulted in the final judgment sued upon, which was
affirmed by the Appellate Division. 244 App. Div. 789;
280 N. Y. S.969.
The present record discloses that after entry of this
judgment London Wallick, a brother of respondent,
brought suit in the Supreme Court of New York to recover from petitioner a share of the judgment pursuant to
a contract alleged to have been entered into by him with
London Wallick on or about November 23, 1925. In resisting a motion made in that suit for an injunction restraining petitioner from disposing of the judgment or
its proceeds, petitioner prepared and filed an affidavit
reciting that on or before November 23, 1925, he had
informed London Wallick that he had already assigned his
interest in the claim against respondent to his wife and
to Walter Titus, his brother, and asserting that "it does

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

not lie within the jurisdiction of this court to now enjoin
what has already been accomplished."
The assignment by petitioner and a later reassignment
of the claim to him were introduced in evidence in the
present suit. The assignment, dated March 31, 1924,
purported to "sell, assign, transfer and set over unto"
Walter Titus "any and all claims" which petitioner then
had against respondent. The reassignment, described by
its terms as an "Agreement," bears date December 1,
1925, prior, to the suit brought by petitioner against respondent in New York. It recites that the earlier assignment was made upon an oral agreement that Walter
Titus was to "use any funds that might be derived"
from the claim to the two hundred and fifty shares of
stock to pay certain indebtedness of petitioner and that
petitioner "wishes to institute an action against" respondent "to recover said stock." It states that Walter Titus
"does hereby sell, assign, transfer and set over" to petitioner "all his right, title and interest" in the claim and
appoints petitioner his attorney to collect the claim. It
further recites an agreement between the assignor and
petitioner that the latter will turn over the proceeds of
the claim to the assignor, who agrees, after paying the
expenses of collection, to pay over one-half of the net
recovery to petitioner's wife, to discharge certain indebtedness of petitioner, and to pay the balance to him.
The Ohio Court of Appeals disagreed with the conclusion of the trial court that petitioner's affidavit in the
London Wallick suit conclusively established that petitioner had no interest in the claim prosecuted against
respondent in New York. It held that his interest was
to be ascertained by examination of the reassignment
from Walter Titus to petitioner. But interpreting that
document in the light of the New York law it concluded
that the reassignment was no more than a power of attorney authorizing petitioner to collect the claim in behalf

TITUS v. WALLICK.
282

Opinion of the Court.

of Walter Titus and did not operate as an assignment to
vest any right or interest in petitioner upon which he
could maintain suit in the New York courts. Upon examination of petitioner's affidavit indicating, as the court
thought, that petitioner had construed the reassignment
correctly as not transferring to him any right or interest
in the claim against respondent, it accepted the affidavit
as evidence that petitioner had fraudulently prosecuted
the New York suit against respondent with knowledge
that he was not entitled to maintain it. The court
accordingly affirmed the judgment of the trial court denying recovery, on the ground that the New York judgment,
impeachable there for the fraud, was to the same extent
impeachable in Ohio.
By R. S. § 905, 28 U. S. C. § 687, enacted under authority of the full faith and credit clause, Article IV,
§ 1 of the Constitution, the duly attested records of the
judgments of a state are entitled to "such faith and
credit . . . in every court within the United States, as
they have by law or usage in the courts of the State from
which they are taken." The jurisdiction of the New
York court over the subject matter and the person of
respondent, established prima facie by the present record
and duly authenticated record of the judgment, is not
questioned. But respondent argues, as the state court
held, that under the Constitution and Act of Congress
the judgment is entitled to no more credit in Ohio than
is accorded to it in New York and that in New York the
judgment is impeachable for petitioner's fraud in prosecuting the suit, knowing that he had no interest in the
cause of action sufficient to enable him to maintain it.
The right asserted by petitioner to have the New York
judgment enforced in the courts of Ohio is one arising
under the Constitution and a statute of the United
States. And since the existence of the federal right turns
upon the legal effect of the proceedings in New York and

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

the validity of the judgment there, the rulings on those
points by the Ohio court are reviewable here. Adam v.
Saenger, 303 U. S. 59, 64. While they involve questions
of local law and are of a character such that this court
ordinarily reexamines them with deference after they
have been passed upon by a state court, its determination
cannot be accepted here as decisive if the constitutional
command is to be observed, especially as the decision of
the state court rests not on the law of its own state or
matters peculiarly within its cognizance, but upon the
law of another state which is as readily determinable here
as in the courts of Ohio.
We do not stop to consider the question much discussed in briet and argument how far the full faith and
credit clause precludes the defense that the judgment
sued upon in one state was procured by fraud in another,
for we think it plain that the present judgment is subject
to no such infirmity. It is evident that no fraud was
perpetrated on respondent or on the New York courts if
the assignment of the claim to petitioner before he
brought the suit in New York operated to vest him with
such ownership or interest in the claim as would enable
him to maintain the suit upon it there. If the assignment had that effect, the facts that it was given f6r the
purpose of enabling petitioner to bring the suit, and
that he was bound to account to a stranger to the suit
for its proceeds, are immaterial, since neither the court
nor respondent was prejudiced by petitioner's failure to
disclose them.
Choses in action, with exceptions not now material, are
made freely assignable by the New York statute. § 41,
Personal Property Law (Consol. Laws, c. 41). Section
210 of the New York Civil Practice Act provides "Every
action must be prosecuted in the name of the real party
in interest, except that . . . a trustee of an express
trust .. .may sue without joining with him the person

TITUS v. WALLICK.
282

Opinion of the Court.

for whose benefit the action is prosecuted." By repeated
decisions of the highest court of the State of New York
it has long been settled that under these sections any
form of assignment which purports to assign or transfer
a chose in action confers upon the transferee such title or
ownership as will enable him to sue upon it. This is true
even though the assignment is for the purpose of suit
only and the transferee is obligated to account for the
proceeds of suit to his assignor. Allen v. Brown, 44 N. Y.
228; Meeker v. Claghorn, 44 N. Y. 349; Sheridan v.
Mayor, 68 N. Y. 30; McCauley v. GeorgiaRailroad Bank,
239 N. Y. 514; 147 N. E. 175; Meyers v. Credit Lyonnais,
259 N. Y. 399; 182 N. E. 61; Banca C. I. Trust Co. v.
Clarkson, 274 N. Y. 69, 74; 8 N. E. 2d 281; Brown v.
Powers, 53 App. Div. 251; 65 N. Y. S. 733; Birdsall v.
Read, 188 App. Div. 46; 176 N. Y. S. 369.
Here the assignment, which in plain terms purported
"to sell, assign, transfer and set over" the chose in action
to petitioner, was sufficient under the New York statutes
and authorities to give petitioner dominion over the claim
for purposes of suit. In that respect its legal effect was
not curtailed by the recital that the assignment was for
purposes of suit and that its proceeds were to be turned
over or accounted for to another. The Ohio court, placing
emphasis on the presence of the power of attorney in the
assignment, disregarded the words of assignment and
gave to the instrument the more restricted effect of a
power of attorney. While a power of attorney to sue,
standing alone, does not under the New York law operate
as an assignment to vest the attorney with such title or
interest as will enable him to maintain the suit in his
own name, Spencer v. Standard Chemicals Corp., 237
N. Y. 479; 143 N. E. 651, the addition of the power to
petitioner's assignment did not deprive it of its force
and character as an assignment. The use of the power
of attorney, once for historical reasons the indispensable
1-33096o-39-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

adjunct of every assignment of a chose in action, Ames,
Lectures on Legal History, 210 et scq., Williston on Contracts, Rev. Ed. § 405, 408, (lid not render the assignment ineffective merely because, by virtue of the statute,
its presence is no longer necessary.
Even though petitioner was disingenuous in omitting
to reveal the reassignment of the claim in his affidavit in
the London Wallick suit, and even though there was
fraudulent purpose in his failure to disclose that he still
had some interest in the proceeds of the judgment to
which London Wallick was asserting a claim, those circumstances did not impair the previous assignment of
the claim to him or deprive him of the authority, already
conferred by the reassignment, to maintain the suit.
Whether petitioner's transactions with London Wallick
gave the latter any equitable claim to the judgment or
its proceeds does not appear, but in any case the existence of such collateral claims does not subject the judgment to impeachment by the judgment debtor. Matter
of Holden, 271 N. Y. 212, 217; 2 N. E. 2d 631.
Respondent also urges that the Court of Appeals rested
its affirmance of the judgment of the trial court on the
ground that petitioner was not the real party in interest
entitled to maintain the suit in Ohio, and that this is a
non-federal ground adequate to support the judgment and
is not reviewable here. While the court intimated that
petitioner was not the real party in interest in Ohio, it
evidently rested this conclusion upon its opinion that petitioner was not the real party in interest in the suit in
New York. Its opinion states that if the assignment
"transferred any such legal or equitable interest or both
in his claim to the plaintiff [petitioner] as would entitle
him to maintain an action in his own name in New York,
then he was a proper party in interest there and a proper
party in interest here."

TITUS v. WALLICK.
282

Opinion of the Court.

When a state court refuses credit to the judgment of a
sister state because of its opinion of the nature of the
cause of action or the judgment in which it is merged, an
asserted federal right is denied and the sufficiency of the
grounds of denial are for this court to decide. Huntington v. Attrill, 146 U. S. 657, 684; Kansas City Southern
Ry. v. Albers Commission Co., 223 U. S. 573, 593; Kenney v. Supreme Lodge, 252 U. S. 411, 415. So far as the
court rested its decision on its view that the New York
assignment conferred no right on petitioner to maintain
the suit there, it is enough, as we have pointed out, that
the petitioner was the real party in interest entitled to
maintain the suit in New York. So far as Ohio might
apply a different rule if the original cause of action were
prosecuted in its courts, that fact is irrelevant to any issue
now presented. The suit in Ohio was not upon the assigned cause of action but upon the judgment of which
petitioner is the record owner. The suit upon it is upon
a different cause of action from that merged in the judgment. Milwaukee County v. White Co., 296 U. S. 268,
275. It is the judgment and not the cause of action which
gave rise to it for which credit is claimed, and the constitutional mandate requires credit to be given to a money
judgment rendered on a civil cause of action in another
state, even though the forum would have been under no
duty to entertain the suit on which the judgment was
founded. Christmas v. Russell, 5 Wall. 290; Fauntleroy
v. Lum, 210 U. S. 230; Roche v. McDonald, 275 U. S. 449;
Milwaukee County v. White Co., supra, 277.
Even though the Ohio court might have declined to
recognize petitioner as the proper party to sue upon the
assigned claim, a suit upon a judgment of another state,
by virtue of the Constitution, stands upon a different
footing. The Ohio court is not free to withhold from
petitioner, the record owner of a judgment valid and en-

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

306 U. S.

forceable by him in New York, the full benefit of the
constitutional command that the judgment shall receive
in the courts of Ohio such faith and credit as it is entitled
to receive in New York. A state which may not constitutionally refuse to open its courts to a suit on a judgment of another state because of the nature of the cause
of action merged in the judgment, Kenney v. Supreme
Lodge, supra, 415, obviously cannot, by the adoption of
a particular rule of liability or of procedure, exclude from
its courts a suit on the judgment.
Reversed.
NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v. COLUMBIAN ENAMELING & STAMPING CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 229. Argued January 11, 12, 1939.-Decided February 27, 1939.

1. An order of the National Labor Relations Board requiring reinstatement' of employees based on a finding that the employer, on a
date specified, had refused to bargain with their Union, held
invalid, the finding not being sustained by evidence. P. 296.
2. The National Labor Relations Act does not compel the employer
to seek out his employees and request their participation in negotiations for purposes of collective bargaining, and he may ignore or
reject proposals for such bargaining which come from third persons
not purporting to act with authority of his employees. P. 297.
3. Secton 10 (e) of the Act in providing that the findings of the
Board as to the facts, if supported by evidence, shall be conclusive,
means evidence which is substantial, that is, affording a substantial
basis of fact from which the fact in issue can reasonably be
inferred. P. 299.
4. Substantial evidence is more than a scintilla, and must do more
than create a suspicion of the existence of the fact to be established.
It is such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as
adequate to support a conclusion, and it must be enough to justify,
if the trial were to a jury, a refusal to direct a verdict, when the

