HIGGINBOTHAM v. BATON ROUGE.
Opinion of the Court.

HIGGINBOTHAM v. CITY OF BATON ROUGE.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 462.

Argued March 3, 1939.-Decided April 17, 1939.

1. Before the expiration of the incumbent's term, the municipal office
of Commissioner of Public Parks and Streets to which he had been
elected was abolished by later legislation, pursuant to which he
was employed, until the next election, to render as Superintendent
of Parks and Streets under control of the Mayor the same service
pertaining to the governmental functions of the city in the supervision of its parks and streets as he had rendered as Commissioner
and at the same salary. Held that later action of the legislature
and the city terminating the employment before' the term had
expired was within the legislative power over public offices and
not an impairment of contract obligation within the meaning of
the contract clause of the Constitution. Pp. 535, 539.
2. While this Court in applying the contract clause of the Constitution must reach an independent judgment as to the existence and
nature of the alleged contract, great weight is attached to the views
of the highest court of the State. P. 538.
190 La. 821; 183 So. 168, affirmed.
APPEAL

from the affirmance of a judgment dismissing

the complaint in an action against the City to recover
money alleged to be due as salary.
Mr. Paul G. Borron, with whom Messrs. Edward
Rightor and E. R. Schowalter were on the brief,' for
appellant.
Messrs. Fred G. Benton and H. Payne Breazeale were

on a brief for the appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the
the Court.

opinion of

The City of Baton Rouge, in March, 1935, pursuant to
Act No. 1 of the First Extraordinary Session of 1935 of

the legislature of Louisiana, adopted an ordinance declar-

536

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

ing that the City was without authority to retain appellant, Powers Higginbotham, as Superintendent of Public
Parks and Streets, and that his employment in that capacity was terminated. Contending that he had been
employed for a term continuing until November, 1936,
and that the legislation abovementioned constituted an
impairment of the obligation of his contract in violation
of ยง 10 of Article I of the Constitution of the United
States, appellant brought this suit to recover the balance
of his salary for the stated term. The Supreme Court of
the State affirmed the judgment dismissing his complaint.
190 La. 821; 183 So. 168.
The pertinent legislation with respect to the municipal
position in question is comprehensively reviewed in the
opinion of the state court. It appears that the City of
Baton Rouge has a commission form of government
adopted in 1914 under the provisions of Act No. 207 of
1912. The authority of the Commission Council is divided among three departments, viz. (1) the Department
of Public Health and Safety, (2) the Department of
Finance, and (3) the Department of Public Parks and
Streets. It was provided that a Commissioner should be
elected for each department, the Mayor being ex officio
Commissioner of Public Health and Safety. In 1921 the
terms of office of the members of the Commission Council
were fixed at four years, the election to be had iii April.
Appellant was elected Commissioner of the Department
of Public Parks and Streets in April, 1931, for a term
which was to expire in May, 1935. But in 1934 the date
for the election of officers was postponed to November,
1936, and appellant's term of office was extended accordingly. Later, by Act No. 13 of the Third Extraordinary
Session of 1934, the legislature abolished the office of
Commissioner of Public Parks and Streets and transferred its functions to the Mayor. There was also created
a Department of State Coordination and Public Welfare

HIGGINBOTHAM v. BATON ROUGE.
535

537

Opinion of the Court.

and provision was made for the election of a Commissioner of that Department. This was followed by a proviso that the person then filling the office of Commissioner of the Department of Public Parks and Streets
should be entitled to enter the employ of the City, at a
salary equal to that theretofore allowed to the Commissioner, "in the work under the said Mayor and said person shall have the right to continue in said service during
good behavior until the next general election of officers
in said municipality." Appellant was the person thus
described, and accordingly, in January, 1935, the Commission Council adopted an ordinance reciting the statutory provisions and providing for the employment of
appellant as Superintendent of Public Parks and Streets,
under the Mayor, "at the same salary now provided for
the Commissioner of Public Parks and Streets, his employment to continue during good behavior and until the
next general election for municipal officers." Appellant
accepted the employment and entered upon the discharge
of his duties, as to the faithful performance of which no
question is raised.
The state court held that the position in question was
"in the nature of a public office" with governmental functions and that the legislative action in abolishing it did
not contravene the constitutional provision as to impairment of contracts. The court referred to the provision of
the Act of 1912 abovementioned that "all the powers and
authority" conferred upon the City by its charter, not
inconsistent with the.provisions of the Act, were declared
to be "reserved to the City unimpaired" to be exercised
by the Mayor and Commission Council. Further, that
by the charter of the City (ยง 7 of Act No. 169 of 1898)
it was provided "that the 'employees' of the City are removable as thereinafter specified" and that by a subsequent provision (ยง 52 as amended by Act No. 249 of
1914) it was declared that "all officers elected by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

Council shall be removable by the Council at pleasure."
Again, that by the Act of 1912 it was declared that "any
official or assistant elected or appointed by the Commission Council may be removed from office at any time
by a vote of the majority of the members of the Council,"
except as therein otherwise provided, and that there was
no exception elsewhere that might be applicable to the
present case. The court said that the general rule that
a municipal council "may remove at any time any official
appointed or elected by the council, or anyone employed
by the council to perform governmental functions," had
been recognized in its former decisions, which were cited.
183 So. at p. 172.
In this view the state court was of the opinion that the
case was not controlled by Hall v. Wisconsin, 103 U. S.
5, upon which appellant relies,-a case of a contract with
a State for the performance of specific services of a scientific character under a statute providing for "a geological, mineralogical and agricultural survey"-a contract
which was held to be within the constitutional protection,
and rather that the case was governed by the general
doctrine reaffirmed in Newton v. Commissioners, 100
U. S. 548, 557. While the particular question was not
involved in that case, the court stated the familiar principle that "the legislative power of a State, except so far
as restrained by its own constitution, is at all times absolute with respect to all offices within its reach. It may
at pleasure create or abolish them, or modify their duties.
It may also shorten or lengthen the term of service." Id.,
p. 559. See, also, Butler v. Pennsylvania, 10 How. 402;
Crenshaw v. United States, 134 U. S.99, 106; Phelps v.
Board of Education, 300 U. S. 319, 322; Dodge v. Board
of Education,302 U. S.74, 78, 79.
While this Court in applying the contract clause of the
Constitution must reach an independent judgment as to
the existence and nature of the alleged contract (Larson v.

HONEYNMAN v. JACOBS.
535

Statement of the Case.

South Dakota, 278 U. S. 429, 433; United States Mortgage
Co. v. Matthews, 293 U. S. 232, 236), we attach great
weight to the views of the highest court of the State.
Cocmbes v. Getz, 285 U. S. 434, 441; Phelps v. Board of
Education, supra; Dodge v. Board of Education, supra.
In this instance we find no reason for disagreeing with
the conclusion reached by the Supreme Court of Louisiana. The Act providing for appellant's "employment"
did not change the nature of the'duties which he had been
performing as Commissioner. Instead of acting as Commissioner he rendered the same service as Superintendent
of Public Parks and Streets under the control of the
Mayor. His duties still distinctly pertained to the performance of the ordinary governmental functions of the
City in the supervision of its streets and parks and his
position as Superintendent both with respect to duties
and tenure may properly be regarded as subject to the
control of the legislature and of the Commission Council
acting under its authority.
The judgment is

Affirmed.

HONEYMAN v. JACOBS

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 465.

Submitted February 10, 1939.--Decided April 17, 1939.

A state law providing that a mortgagee who has bid in the property
at foreclosure sale shall have no deficiency judgment if the value
of the property equals the amount of the debt and interest plus
costs and expenses, does not impair the obligations of preexisting
mortgage contracts within the intendment of the contract clause
of the Constitution. Richmond Mortgage Corp. v. Wachovia
Bank, 300 U. S. 124, 128. P. 545.
278 N. Y. 467; 17 N. E' 2d 131, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment affirming a judgment which
confirmed a foreclosure sale to the appellant as mort-

