OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Argument for Appellant.

PACIFIC TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO. v.

GALLAGHER

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 213.

Argued December 12, 13, 1938.-Decided January 30, 1939.

California use and storage tax on telephone and telegraph company
in respect of equipment, apparatus, materials and supplies purchased outside and shipped into the state in operation, maintenance
and repair of its interstate system, held constitutional, upon the
authority of Southern Pacific Co. v. Gallagher,ante, p. 167.
23 F. Supp. 197, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of a three-judge district court refusing a permanent injunction and dismissing the bill in
a suit to restrain enforcement of the California Use Tax.
The court below had at first overruled a motion to dismiss
and granted an interlocutory injunction.

Mr. Francis N. Marshall, with whom Messrs. Alfred
Sutro and Eugene M. Prince were on the brief, for appellant.
The tax is bad as a direct tax upon the operation of
instrumentalities of interstate commerce, falling indiscriminately and without apportionment upon interstate
and intrastate use. Helson & Randolph v. Kentucky,
279 U. S. 245; Bingaman v. Golden Eagle Lines, 297 U. S.
626; Cooney v. Mountain States Telephone Co. 294 U. S.
384, 393.
The trial court's ruling that the tax may be applied to
the storage of property prior to interstate use does not
support the decree as to the specific order equipment
which is not stored prior to its use in intermingled interstate and intrastate commerce. Likewise, in the case
of the stand-by property, there is no preliminary intrastate storage separable from use in the intermingled com-

PACIFIC TEL. CO. v. GALLAGHER.
182

Argument for Appellant.

merce, since it is true in every practical sense, as the trial
court specifically found, that the stand-by service in this
case is itself a necessary use of the property in the appellant's intermingled interstate and intrastate business.
There is in this case no intrastate enterprise, transaction, or use which is separable from the interstate use
of the property. The tax upon the use of the property,
either in the immediate rendition of service (specific
order equipment) or in a stand-by capacity (stand-by
facilities), is, therefore, a direct tax upon interstate commerce. The state statute, properly construed, did not
intend to impose such a tax, but if it is otherwise construed, it is unconstitutional in that respect.
The appellees attempt to" distinguish the Helson
case, upon the assumption here of some separable intrastate transaction affecting the property to which the tax
applies, is answered by the fact that there is no storage
or withdrawal from storage of the specific order equipment. No storage occurs in the moments when the
property is temporarily set down in the course of unloading or installation. These are necessary and incidental
interruptions of movement. Furthermore, it is settled
that a momentary storage comprising a mere temporary
interruption of the course of a non-taxable interstate
event does not itself acquire an intrastate character and
become taxable on that -ccount. Carson Petroleum Co.
v. Vial, 279 U. S. 95; Champlain Co. v. Brattleboro, 260
U. S. 366.
To the suggestion that the installation of the equipment may bear the tax, the answer is that the statute
does not tax installation. If it did purport to do so it
would be invalid in this case. A tax on installation for
use is in effect a tax upon the use itself, and would deThe
feat the ends of the constitutional protection.
maintenance of interstate telephone and telegraph lines
and repairs in the operation of interstate pipe lines-

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Argument for Appellant.

306 U. S.

necessarily involving the installation of repair parts and
improvements-are not separable intrastate activities
authorizing the imposition of a state excise tax. Ozark
Pipe Line v. Monier, 266 U. S. 555, 565; Atlantic Lumber
Co. v. Commissioner, 298 U. S. 553, 557.
Installation for interstate use, like loading for interstate shipment, is essentially the act of putting the property in position for interstate activity, and is exclusively
in furtherance of the interstate commerce. It is settled
that a State can not tax such a closely related incident of
interstate commerce as the loading of goods in position
for interstate shipment,-Puget Sound Co. v. Tax
Comm'n, 302 U. S. 90; Hughes Bros Co. v. Minnesota,
272 U. S. 469,--even where the work is done by. a separate concern hired for the purpose.
With respect to stand-by facilities, appellees' claim
seems to be that this property is part of the general mass
of property in the State and hence is subject to the
State's general taxing laws. But the performance of the
stand-by function, as the facts show and as the trial
court held, is use of the property in the interstate-intrastate business; and while all the rest of appellant's plant
in use is part of the general mass of property in the State
and may be subjected to property taxes, yet the State
may not tax the use of that plant in interstate commerce,
nor any part of the privilege of intermingled interst.te
and intrastate use without apportioning the tax to the
amount of intrastate use.
The interstate and intrastate business of appellant are
inseparably intertwined; the property involved is wholly
used in inextricably intermingled interstate and intrastate commerce; and appellees have demanded the tax
for the storage, use, or other consumption, of all of the
property at the rate of 3% of the purchase price of all
of it, without any apportionment for the division of use
between interstate and intrastate commerce. Since

PACIFIC TEL. CO. t'. GALLAGHER.
182

Argument fur Appellant.

there is no transaction separable from the intermingled
use, and since the tax necessarily, therefore, falls on the
intermingled use, and since the measure of the tax is unapportioned by any allocation of the use, it is plain that
the tax is not laid upon the intrastate use alone.
The case coincides with the Cooney case. Cf. Western
Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1, 27. Appellant is compelled to purchase more property by reason of
the interstate business than it would if it were engaged in
intrastate commerce alone; so that the tax, a fixed percentage of the purchase price of the property, is greater
by reason of the interstate business done. Raley & Bros.
v. Richardson, 264 U. S. 157, distinguished.
It is not true that the sale and use taxes are both paid
by the purchaser. The California Retail Sales Tax Act
of 1933, (Cal. Stats. 1933, p. 2599, ch. 1020) imposes upon
retailers, for the privilege of selling tangible personal
property at retail, a tax equal to 3% of the gross receipts
from their retail sales. In National Ice & Cold Storage
Co. v. Pacific Fruit Express Co., 11 Cal. 2d 283; 79 P. 2d
380, the Supreme Court of California held that the sales
tax is a tax on the retailer and not on the purchaser,
and that the provisions for passing the tax on to the purchaser were invalid except in so far as the latter might
consent thereto, either expressly or impliedly. It is
merely optional with the retailer whether he shall attempt to reimburse himself from the consumer; he may
waive the right, Roth Drug, Inc. v. Johnson, 13 Cal. App.
2d 720, 736; 57 P. 2d 1022, 1029, (approved in the case
last cited). The Use Tax Act, on the other hand, makes
the tax a direct obligation of the consumer, who must
pay the tax-to the retailer if the latter maintains a place
of business in California, otherwise directly to the State
Board of Equalization.
Obviously, the sales and use taxes are not mutually
complementary; moreover, the California tax scheme cre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

ates a heavier deterrent to interstate commerce than to
intrastate commerce, because the consumer can not escape the 3% use tax on his purchases interstate,
but may escape the 3% sales tax on his purchases intrastate.
Mr. H. H. Linney, Deputy Attorney General of California, with whom Messrs. U. S. Webb, Attorney General,
and James J. Arditto, Deputy Attorney General, were on
the brief, for appellees.
By leave of Court, Messrs. G. W. Hamilton, Attorney
General of Washington, and R. G. Sharpe, Assistant Attorney General, filed a brief, as amici curiae, in support
of appellees.
MR. JUSTICE

REED

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case involves the same questions as Southern
Pacific Co. v. Gallagher, ante, p. 167. The appellant
sought to restrain the State Board of Equalization of the
$tktatof California, its members, and the Attorney General of the state from enforcing the Use Tax of 1935. A
three-judge court granted an interlocutory injunction.
Later, it denied a permanent injunction and dismissed
the appellant's bill' for the reasons stated in Southern
Pacific Co. v. Corbett, 23 F. Supp. 193.
The appellant, a California corporation, operates a telephone and telegraph system in interstate and intrastate
commerce. The same plant, facilities and organization
are devoted to both interstate and intrastate business.
In the necessary operation, maintenance and repair
of its system, the appellant purchases outside California large amounts of equipment, apparatus, materials
and supplies which are shipped to it in interstate commerce at various points within the state. The tangible
'Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. v. Corbett, 23 F. Supp. 197.

PACIFIC TEL. CO. v. GALLAGHER.
182

Opinion of the Court.

personal property which the appellees threaten to tax is of
two general classes: specific order and stand-by equipment.
The first consists of central office switchboards, frames,
cable racks, large private branch exchange switchboards,
large underground cables, switches, central office cable,
wire, protectors and other component parts of telephone
and telegraph lines, which are purchased on specific order for installation at a particular place in the system.
The second comprises goods bought from time to time
for holding as stand-by supplies to meet fluctuating
demands and emergencies and to make repairs.
The specific order equipment is shipped to the appellant at the place of use. Its representative receipts
for the goods at the dock or breaks the seal of the railroad car, and its employees unload the goods from the
dock or car into its trucks. In most instances the trucks
are driven directly to the building where the equipment
is to be installed; in some, to distributing centers for
reloading into other trucks which are driven to the place
of installation. Occasionally, private branch exchange
switchboards must be held by the appellant until the
place of installation is ready. There is no holding in
warehouses. The stand-by supplies which constitute a
reserve to meet current requirements are replenished by
monthly orders. The appellant's trucks pick them up
at the dock or railroad depot and carry them to storage
places at points on the system suitable for prompt distribution. When needed, the stand-by facilities Are
taken out of the stores and installed.
The appellant exercises two rights of ownership in
California-retention and installation-after the termination of the interstate shipment and before the use or consumption on its mixed interstate and intrastate telephone
system. We see no material. distinction between the contentions of the appellant and those disposed of in Southern Pacific Co. v. Gallagher, ante, p. 167.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

The decree of the lower court dismissing the appellant's
bill is
A ffirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

dissent.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS took no part in the considera-

tion or decision of this case.

CITY OF TEXARKANA v. ARKANSAS LOUISIANA
GAS CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAJS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 294. Argued January 4, 5, 1939.-Decided February 6, 1939.
1. A franchise granted to a utility company by the City of Texarkana, Texas, contained a section (ยง IX) providing that if the
company should "be finally compelled to, or should voluntarily,
place in any rates" for the adjacent City of Texarkana, Arkansas,
less than those fixed by the franchise, then such lower rates should
apply also in the Texas city and the company "shall not be
authorized or permitted to charge and collect any higher rate."
Held:
(1) The section was not invalid as a delegation or abdication
of the power of the Texas city under its charter to regulate the
business and fix the rates of public utilities. P. 196.
(2) By the law of Texas, the section was binding on the utility
company, although, because of the reserved power to raise or
lower the rates, not binding on the municipality. P. 197.
Grant of the franchise is consideration for the undertaking of
the utility to maintain the prescribed rates until they are altered
by the exercise of the reserved power of the municipality to
regulate the rates. P. 200.
(3) Earlier decisions of this Court to the effect that under the
law of Texas a municipality could not validly make a rate contract
with a public utility because inconsistent with its reserved power
to regulate rates are inapplicable because (a) the state supreme

