268

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

306 U. S.

ployees discussed above 'should be sustained. As the remainder of the order is affected by the determination upon
this issue but not wholly controlled by the conclusions,
no opinion is expressed a to the other requirements of
the order:.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK concurs

in this dissent.

EICHHOLZ v. PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION OF
MISSOURI ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 367. Argued February 1, 1939.-Decided February 27, 1939.
1. Under Judicial Code ยง 266, that part of a decree of the threejudge District Court which denied a permanent injunction is reviewable directly by this Court independently of other provisions of the
decree, not final, concerning a counterclaim. P. 269.
2. Mere pendency before the Interstate Commerce Commission of
an application under the Federal Motor Carrier Act to operate as
a motor carrier in interstate commerce does not supersede the
authority of a State to enforce reasonable regulations of traffic upon
its highways with respect to such applicant. P. 273.
3. For the effectuation of its laws requiring common carriers by
motor to obtain certificates of public convenience and necessity
before operating intrastate, a State may forbid intrastate business
by carriers who have not such certificates but have permits from
the State for use of its highways in interstate 'commerce only; and
where an interstate carrier evades the prohibition by carrying goods
from wkhin the State to a place near to and beyond its boundary
and then carrying them back for delivery in the State near the
boundary, the State may revoke his permit. P. 273.
In the absence of the exercise of federal authority, and in the
-light of local exigencies, the State is free to act in order to protect
its legitimate interests even though interstate commerce is directly
affected.
23 F. Supp. 587, affirmed.

EICHHOLZ v. COMM'N.
268

Opinion of the Court.

APPEAL from a decree denying a preliminary injunction
against enforcement of an order revoking the appellant's
permit to operate in Missouri as an interstate carrier by
motor.

Messrs. Smith B. Atwood and D. D. McDonald, with
whom Mr. Frank E. Atwood was on the brief, for
appellant.
Messrs. James H. Linton and Daniel C. Rogers for
appellees.
MR. CHIEF JusTIcE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the District Court,
composed of three judges, holding valid an order of the
Public Service Commission of Missouri which revoked
appellant's permit as an interstate carrier, and denying
a permanent injunction restraining the Commission and
certain state officers from prosecuting suits against appellant for using the highways of the State in the transportation of property for hire in interstate commerce.
23 F. Supp. 587.
By a supplementary answer, the Public Service Commission pleaded a counterclaim for fees alleged to be due
to the State for the use of its highways since the granting
of the restraining order which was issued on the institution of the suit. The District Court adjudged the defendants entitled to recover on the counterclaim and appointed
a special master to take the necessary accounting. As
the decree is not a final one so far as the counterclaim is
concerned, the appellees move to dismiss the appeal. The
motion is denied. The decree denied a permanent injunction and this Court has jurisdiction of a direct appeal
from that part of the decree by virtue of the express
provision of the statute. Judicial Code, ยง 266; 28 U. S. C.
380. Compare Public Service Comm'n v. BrashearFreight

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

Lines,.ante, p. 204. See Smith v. Wilson, 273 U. S. 388,
390, 391; Stratton v. St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co.,
282 U. S. 10, 14.
Since 1931 appellant, Frank Eichholz, has operated
freight trucks in interstate commerce between the States
of Missouri, Iowa and Kansas and has maintained terminal facilities in St. Louis, Missouri, Kansas City, Kansas,
and other places in Kansas and Iowa. Prior to the passage of the Federal Motor Carrier Act of 1935 (49 U. S. C.
301 et seq.), he obtained a permit from the Public Service
Commissidn of Missouri "to operate as a freight carrying
motor carrier over an irregular route" between points in
Missouri and points beyond that State, "exclusively in
interstate commerce." He did not seek or obtain from the
Comnission an intrastate permit.
On the passage of the federal act, appellant applied for
a permit from the Interstate Commerce Commission, and
that application was still pending at the time of the hearing below and argument here.
When the state permit was granted, and thereafter,
there was in force Rule No. 44 of the Public Service. Commission which provided as follows:
"No driver or operator operating under an interstate
permit shall accept for transportation within this state
any person or property known to be destined to a point
within the State of Missouri. If such interstate carrier
accepts within Missouri a passenger whose destination is
beyonid the limits of the State of Missouri, such passenger
shall not be permitted to terminate his trip within the
State of Missouri; and if such interstate carrier accepts
within Missouri property destined to a point beyond the
limits of the State of Missouri such property snail not be
terminated within the State of Missouri."
In December, 1936, after hearing, the Commission revoked appellant's permit, holding this rule to have been
violated. Its decision was based upon a finding that ap-

EICHHOLZ v. COMM'N.
268

Opinion of the Court.

pellant had unlawfully engaged in intrastate commerce
under the pretense of transacting interstate business; that
as a subterfuge he had hauled freight originating in St.
Louis, Missouri, and destined to Kansas City, Missouri,
and vice versa, through his terminal in Kansas City, Kansas, which was located less than one-half mile from the
Missouri state line. The Commission stated that the testimony showed an industrious solicitation by appellant
for the transportation of freight between St. Louis, Missouri, and Kansas City, Missouri, on the basis of his
quoted interstate rate between such cities as set forth in
his tariff filed with .the Interstate Commerce Commission, which rate was much lower than the established rate
for intrastate carriers operating between these cities, and
that by such means a large volume of business had been
developed. It appeared that he was carrying freight at
the interstate first-class rate of sixty cents per cwt. between St. Louis, Missouri, and Kansas City, Missouri,
through his terminal at Kansas City, Kansas, while the
similar intrastate freight rate established by the Public
Service Commission between the two cities in Missouri
was ninety-two cents per cwt.
On the challenge in this suit of the validity of the
Commission's order, the District Court heard the evidence
of the parties and found that the carriage of property
from St Louis, Missouri, to Kansas City, Kansas, and
thence back into Kansas City, Missouri, for delivery, was
not "the normal, regular or usual route" for shipping merchandise between the two cities in Missouri; that the
route used by appellant to his terminal at Kansas City,
Kansas, was through Kansas City, Missouri, and that the
same traffic-ways were used in making deliveries of merchandise after it had been hauled in the first instance to
the terminal; that after reaching the terminal in Kansas
City, Kansas, appellant in many instances did not unload the merchandise, that much of such shipments was in

272

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

carload lots, and that the method employed was to haul
the merchandise to his terminal in Kansas City, Kansas, "where a new driver, either with the same tractor
and trailer, or with another tractor and the same trailer,
would return the merchandise to Kansas City, Missouri";
that in some instances merchandise was actually unloaded
at the depot in Kansas City, Kansas, and then distributed
to the consignees in Kansas City, Missouri, but that this
was "a negligible percentage of the shipment between
Missouri points"; and that the method of operation which
appellant employed was designed to afford shippers the
bencfit of a lower rate and was not in good faith.
First. By ยง 5268 (a) of the Missouri Bus and Truck Act
(Laws of 1931, pp. 307, 308), the State declared it to be
unlawful for any common carrier by motor to furnish
service within the State without first having obtained
from the Commission a certificate of public convenience
and necessity. By ยง 5268 (b) it was declared unlawful
for any motor carrier (with certain exceptions not material here) to use any of the public highways of the State
in interstate commerce without first having obtained a
permit from the Commission. It was provided that in
determining whether such a permit should be issued, the
Commission should give consideration "to the kind and
character of vehicles permitted over said highway"
and should require the filing "of a liability insurance
policy or bond" in such sum and upon such conditions as
the Commission might deem necessary to protect adequately the interest of the public in the use of the highway. The statute also authorized the Public Service
Commissioin to prescribe regulations governing motor
carriers.
Appellant's complaint did not attack these statutes;
on the contrary he asserted that he had fully complied
with their provisions. His complaint was of the or-

EICHHOLZ v. COMM'N.
268

Opinion of the Court.

der of the Commission revoking his permit. We confine
ourselves to the question thus presented.
Second. When the Commission revoked the permit, the
Interstate Commerce Commission had not acted upon appellant's application under the Federal Motor Carrier
Act and meanwhile the authority of the state body to
take appropriate action under the state law to enforce
reasonable regulations of traffic upon the state highways
had not been superseded. Welch Co. v. New Hampshire,
ante, p. 79; compare McDonald v. Thompson, 305 U. S.
263.
Third. Appellant did not seek from the state commission a certificate entitling him to do an intrastate business. Under the Commission's rule, he had his choice
either to refrain from carrying property between points
in Missouri or to secure a certificate of public convenience
and necessity as an intrastate carrier. The validity of the
requirement of such a certificate to promote the proper
and safe use of the state highways is not open to question.
Hendrick v. Maryland, 235 U. S. 610, 622; Morris v.
Duby, 274 U. S. 135, 143; Clark v. Poor, 274 U. S. 554,
556, 557; South Carolina Highway Dept. v. Barnwell
Brothers, 303 U. S. 177, 189; compare Buck v. Kuykendall, 267 U. S. 307, 315; Interstate Busses Corp. v. Holyoke Ry. Co., 273 U. S. 45, 51; Sprout v. South Bend, 277
U. S.163, 169.
Rule 44 was plainly designed to provide a safeguard
against the use of an interstate permit to circumvent the
requirement of a certificate for intrastate traffic. The
rule simply sought to hold to his choice the one who had
sought and obtained a permit exclusively for interstate
transportation. Appellant was entirely free to conduct
that transportation if he did not engage in the intrastate
business for which he had deliberately refrained from
qualifying himself. We cannot see that the rule on its
133096"*-39--18

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

face imposed any improper burden upon interstate commerce and the question is whether it did so through the
application that the Commission has made of it.
Appellant insists that the hauling from St. Louis over
the state line to Kansas City, Kansas, of merchandise
consigned to persons in Kansas City, Missouri, and hauling it back again to its intended destination in Kansas
City, Missouri, was actually interstate transportation.
Hanley v. Kansas City Southern Ry. Co., 187 U. S. 617;
IWestern Union. Telegraph Co. v. Speight, 254 U. S. 17;
Missouri Pacific R. Co. v. Stroud, 267 U. S. 404. That
fact, however, does not require the conclusion that the
State's action for the protection of its intrastate commerce was invalid. See Lone Star Gas Co. v. Texas, 304
U. S. 224, 238. We may assume that Congress could
regulate interstate transportation of the sort here in question, whatever the motive of those engaging in it. But
in the absence of the exercise of federal authority, and
in the light of local exigencies, the State is free to act in
order to protect its legitimate interests even though interstate commerce is directly affected. Cooley v. Board of
Wardens, 12 How. 299, 319; Morgan's S. S. Co. v. Louisiana, 118 U. S. 455; Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465;
Kelly v. Washington, 302 U. S. 1, 9, 10. If appellant's
hauling of the merchandise in question across the state
line was not in good faith but was a mere subterfuge
to evade the State's requirement as to intrastate commerce, there is no ground for saying that the prohibition
of the use of the interstate permit to cover such transactions, and the application of the Commission's rule pro
hibiting them in the absence of an intrastate certificate,
was an unwarrantable intrusion into the federal field or
the subjection of interstate commerce to any unlawful
restraint. And if the prohibition of such transactions
was valid, the Commission was undoubtedly entitled to
enforce it by revoking appellant's permit for breach of

EICHHOLZ v. COMM'N.
268

Opinion of the Court.

the condition upon which it was issued and accepted by
appellant.
Fourth. The ultimate question is thus one of fact,
whether the transactions of appellant were of the character described by the Commission and in the findings
of the District Court.
The transcript of the record before the Commission
was introduced before the court, but neither that evidence
nor the additional evidence taken by the court is presented in extenso by the record here. The parties properly filed, in connection with this appeal, condensed statements of the evidence upon which they respectively relied. An examination of these statements discloses no
reason for disturbing the court's findings.
Appellant stresses the fact that he had selected his terminal in Kansas City, Kansas, at the beginning of his
operations as a motor carrier, about 1932, and that it
was a convenient and proper location. But that fact
does not alter the nature of the transactions under review. There was a variance in the testimony as to the
extent of the appellant's business which was conducted
in violation of his permit, but there was adequate basis
for the court's finding that it was a considerable portion
of his operations and justified the action of the Commission.
The decree of the District Court so far as it denies an
injunction is
Affirmed.

