LABOR BOARD v. FAINBLATT.
Statement of the Case.

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v. FAINBLATT ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 514.

Argued March 8, 9, 1939.-Decided April 17, 1939.

1. The National Labor Relations Act is applicable to manufacturers
whose product is shipped in interstate commerce under circumstances such that cessation of work by their employees by reason
of strikes or labor disputes would result in cessation of the movement of the manufactured product in interstate commerce. Consequently the Act is applicable to employers, not themselves engaged in interstate commerce, who are engaged in a relatively
small business of processing materials which are regularly transmitted to them by the owners through the channels of interstate
commerce and which, after the processing, are returned to the
owner's agent at the factory, and by him shipped to interstate
destinations. P. 604.
2. Whether the materials are owned by the processor and whether
they are shipped directly to him or to representatives of the
owners at the processor's factory, are immaterial. The shipments
to and from the factory are none the less interstate commerce because the transportation did not begin or end with the transfer of
title of the merchandise transported. P. 605.
3. The power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce is plenary
and extends to all such commerce, be it great or small. The amount
of commerce regulated is of special significance only to the extent
that Congress may be taken to have excluded commerce of small
volume from the operation of its regulatory measure by express
provision or fair implication. P. 606.
4. In the National Labor Relations Act Congress has set no restrictions upon the jurisdiction of the Board to be determined or fixed
exclusively by reference to the volume of interstate commerce
involved. P. 606.
98 F. 2d 615, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 305 U. S. 594, to review a judgment denying a petition of the National Labor Relations Board for

enforcement of one of its orders.

602

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

Mr. Charles Fahy, with whom Solicitor General Jackson, and Messrs. Charles A. Horsky, Robert B. Watts,
Laurence A. Knapp, and Mortimer B. Wolf were on the
brief, for petitioner.
Mr. T. Girard Wharton, with whom Messrs. Leon
Gerofsky and Joseph Halpern were on the brief, for
respondents.
MR.

JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This petition raises the question whether the National
Labor Relations Act is applicable to employers, not themselves engaged in interstate commerce, who are engaged
in a relatively small business of processing materials
which are transmitted to them by the owners through the
channels of interstate commerce and which after processing are distributed through those channels.
Pursuant to § 10 (b) of the National Labor Relations
Act, c. 372, 49 Stat. 449; 29 U. S. C. § 151 et seq., the
National Labor Relations Board issued its complaint
charging respondents with unfair labor practices .in violation of § 8 (1), (3), (5) and § 2 (6), (7) of the Act.
After a hearing, which resulted in a decision and order of
the Board, a supplemental hearing was held pursuant to
order of the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, which
resulted in a supplemental decision and an order reaffirming the Board's original findings and conclusions of law
and modifying the original order in one respect not now
material.
The facts, as found by the Board, are that respondents,
under the name of Somerset Manufacturing Company,
are engaged at Somerville, New Jersey, in the business
of processing materials into various types of women's
sports garments. They operate what is known as a "contract shop." The materials are supplied by and are the
property of the Lee Sportswear Company, a partnership

LABOR BOARD v. FAINBLATT.
601

Opinion of the -Court.

located in New York City. The cloth from which the
garments are made is usually cut by the Lee Sportswear
Company in New York City and then shipped by truck to
respondents' factory in New Jersey. Sometimes the raw
materials are shipped, on the order of the Lee Sportswear
Company, directly from the mills manufacturing them,
many of which are outside of New Jersey. All the materials are manufactured at respondents' New Jersey factory under contract. The finished garments are there
delivered to a representative of the Lee Sportswear Company, who ships them to the company in New York City
or directly to its customers throughout the United States.
Throughout the year there is normally a continuous
day-by-day flow of shipments of raw materials to respondents' factory from points without the state, and of
finished garments from respondents' plant to New York
City and other points outside of New Jersey. During the
years 1934 and 1935 respondents appear to have finished
more than a thousand dozen garments each month. In
the course of the supplemental hearing in 1937 it appeared that respondents had increased their working force
from sixty to approximately two hundred employees, from
which the Board inferred a corresponding increase of output. Immediately preceding a strike of thirty-four of the
workers in respondents' tailoring department, which occurred in September, 1935, and which the Board found to
be induced by the unfair labor practices of respondents,
shipments were about 80 per cent. of those for the corresponding period in 1934. Following the strike, output
decreased by more than one-half, or to 38 per cent. of the
shipments for the corresponding period in 1934.
The Board concluded that respondents' unfair labor
practices had led and tended "to lead to labor disputes
burdening and obstructing commerce and the free flow of
commerce." Its order as modified directed respondents
to desist from interfering with their employees' right to

604

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

join a local union and from discouraging membership in
the union by discharging them or discriminating against
them in the terms of their employment, and it directed
respondents to reinstate certain employees who had struck
because of the unfair labor practices, some with back pay.
The Board's petition for enforcement of its order was
denied by the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, 98
F. 2d 615, on the ground that respondents were not themselves engaged in interstate commerce and had no title or
interest in the raw materials or finished products which
moved to and from respondents' factory in New Jersey
from and to points outside the state. We granted certiorari January 9, 1939, the question being one of public
importance in the administration of the National Labor
Relations Act.
Only the question of the Board's jurisdiction is raised
by the petition and in briefs and argument. It has been
settled by repeated decisions of this Court that an employer may be subject to the National Labor Relations
Act although not himself engaged in commerce. The end
sought in the enactment of the statute was the prevention of the disturbance to interstate commerce consequent upon strikes and labor disputes induced or likely
to be induced because of unfair labor practices narfied in
the Act. That those consequences may ensue from strikes
of the employees of manufacturers who are not engaged
in interstate commerce where the cessation of manufacture necessarily results in the cessation of the movement
of the manufactured product in interstate commerce, has
been repeatedly pointed out by this Court. National
Labor Relations Board v. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp.,
301 U. S. 1, 38-40; National Labor Relations Board v.
Fruehauf Trailer Co., 301 U. S. 49; National Labor Relations Board v. Friedman-HarryMarks Clothing Co., 301
U. S. 58; Santa Cruz Packing Co. v. National Labor Relations Board, 303 U. S. 453, 463 et seq.; cf. Consolidated

LABOR BOARD v. FAINBLATT.
601

Opinion of the Court.

Edison Co. v. National Labor Relations Board, 305 U. S.
197. Long before the enactment of the National Labor
Relations Act it had been many times held by this Court
that the power of Congress extends to the protection of
interstate commerce from interference or injury due to
activities which are wholly intrastate.'
Here interstate commerce was involved in the transportation of the materials to be processed across state
lines to the factory of respondents and in the transportation of the finished product to points outside the state for
distribution to purchasers and ultimate consumers.
Whether shipments were made directly to respondents,
as the Board found, or to a representative of Lee Sportswear Company at the factory, as respondents contend, is
immaterial. It was not any the less interstate commerce
because the transportation did not begin or end with the
transfer of title of the merchandise transported. See
Santa Cruz Packing Co. v. National Labor Relations
Board, supra, 463; cf. Gloucester Ferry Co. v. PennsylIt may prohibit wholly intrastate activities which, if permitted,
would result in restraint of interstate commerce. Coronado Coal Co.
v. United Mine Workers, 268 U. S. 295, 310; Bedford Cut Stone Co. v.
Stone Cutters Assn., 274 U. S. 37, 46; Local 167 v. United States, 291
U. S. 293, 297. It may regulate the activities of a local grain exchange
shown to have an injurious effect on interstate commerce. Chicago
Board of Trade v. Olsen, 262 U. S. 1. It may regulate intrastate rates
of interstate carriers where the effect of the rates is to burden interstate commerce. Houston, E. & W. Texas Ry. Co. v. United States,
234 U. S. 342; Railroad Comrission of Wisconsin v. Chicago, B. &
Q. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563; United States v. Louisiana, 290 U. S. 70, 74;
Florida v. United States, 295 U. S. 301. It may compel the adoption
of safety appliances on rolling stock moving intrastate because of the
relation to and effect of such appliances upon interstate traffic moving
over the same railroad. Southern Ry. Co. v. United States, 222 U. S.
20. It may prescribe maximum hours for employees engaged in intrastate activity connected with the movement of any train, such as
train dispatchers and telegraphers. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v.
Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 221 U. S. 612, 619.

606

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

vania, 114 U. S.196, 203; Wabash, St. L. & P. Ry. Co. v.
Illinois, 118 U. S. 557; Hanley v. Kansas City Southern
Ry. Co., 187 U. S. 617, 619; Morf v. Bingaman, 298 U. S.
407; Ingels v. Morf, 300 U. S. 290. Transportation alone
across state lines is commerce within the constitutional
control of the national government and subject to the
regulatory power of Congress. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9
Wheat. 1; Champion v. Ames, 188 U. S. 321.
Nor do we think it important, as respondents seem to
argue, that the volume of the commerce here involved,
though substantial, was relatively small as compared with
that in the cases arising under the National Labor Relations Act which have hitherto engaged our attention.
The power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce
is plenary and extends to all such commerce be it great or
small. Hanley v. Kansas City Southern Ry. Co., supra.
The exercise of Congressional power under the Sherman
Act, the Clayton Act, the Federal Trade Commission
Act, or the National Motor Vehicle Theft Act, has never
been thought to be constitutionally restricted because in
any particular case the volume of the commerce affected
may be small. The amount of the commerce regulated is
of special significance only to the extent that Congress
may be taken to have excluded commerce of small volume
from the operation of its regulatory measure by express
provision or fair implication.
The language of the National Labor Relations Act
seems to make it plain that Congress has set no restrictions upon the jurisdiction of the Board to be determined
or fixed exclusively by reference to the volume of interstate commerce involved. Section 2 (6) defines commerce
as "trade, traffic, commerce, transportatior, or communi-.
cation among the several States," without reference to its
volume, and declares in subsection (7) that "The term
'affecting commerce' means in commerce, or burdening or
obstructing commerce or the free flow of commerce, or

LABOR BOARD v. FAINBLATT.
601

Opinion of the Court.

having led or tending to lead to a labor dispute burdening or obstructing commerce or the free flow of commerce." Section 10 (a) confers on the Board authority
"to prevent any person from engaging in any unfair labor
practice (listed in section 8) affecting commerce."
The Act on its face thus evidences the intention of
Congress to exercise whatever power is constitutionally
given to it to regulate commerce by the adoption of
measures for the prevention or control of certain specified
acts-unfair labor practices-which provoke or tend to
provoke strikes or labor disturbances affecting interstate
commerce. Given the other needful conditions, commerce may be affected in the same manner and to the
same extent in proportion to its volume, whether it be
great or small. Examining the Act in the light of its
purpose and of the circumstances in which it must be applied we can perceive no basis for inferring any intention
of Congress to make the operation of the Act depend on
any particular volume of commerce affected more than
that to which courts would apply the maxim de minimis.
There are not a few industries in the United States
which, though conducted by relatively small units, contribute in the aggregate a vast volume of interstate commerce.2 Some, like .the clothing industry, are extensively
unionized and have had a long and tragic history of industrial strife. It is not to be supposed that Congress,
in its attempted nationwide regulation of interstate commerce through the removal of the causes of industrial
the year 1933 the women's clothing industry ranked ninth
among manufacturing industries in number of workers employed and
eighth in value of product. U. S. Biennial Census of Manufactures
(Commerce Dept., 1933). In this industry the "contract shop" is
common. About one-half of the 3,414 enterprises engaged in 1935 in
the manufacture of women's dresses were "contract shops." U. S.
Biennial Census of Manufactures (Commerce Dept., 1935). These
enterprises employed an average of only about thirty-two employees
each.
2In

133096°-39----39

608

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

strife affecting it, intended to exclude such industries from
the sweep of the Act. In this, as in every other case, the
test of the Board's jurisdiction is not the volume of the
interstate commerce which may be affected, but the existence of a relationship of the employer and his employees
to the commerce such that, to paraphrase § 10 (a) in the
light of constitutional limitations, unfair labor practices
have led or tended to lead "to a labor dispute burdening
or obstructing commerce."
It is no longer open to question that the manufacturer
who regularly ships his product in interstate commerce is
subject to the authority conferred on the Board with
respect to unfair labor practices whenever such practices
on his part have led or tend to lead to labor disputes
which threaten to obstruct his shipments. National
Labor Relations Board v. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp.,
supra;NationalLaborRelationsBoard v. Fruehauf Trailer
Co., supra; National Labor Relations Board v. FriedmanHarry Marks Clothing Co., supra, Santa Cruz Packing
Co. v. National Labor Relations Board, supra; Consolidated Edison Co. v. National Labor Relations, Board,
supra. We cannot say, other things being equal, that the
tendency differs in kind, quantity or effect merely because
the merchandise which the manufacturer ships, ifistead
of being his own, is that of the consignee or his customers
in other states. In either case commerce is in danger of
being obstructed in the same way and to the same extent.
Here, although respondents' manufacturing business is
small, employing from sixty to two hundred employees,
its product is. regularly shipped in interstate commerce.
The Board's finding that respondents' unfair labor practices have led and tend to lead to labor disputes burdening interstate commerce and interfering with its free flow
is supported by the evidence. Moreover, the Board has
found specifically that respondents' unfair labor practices
in attempting to prevent the unionization of their factory

LABOR BOARD v. FAINBLATT.
601

McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

did in fact lead to a strike in respondents' tailoring es-

tablishment, with a consequent reduction of about 50 per
cent. in respondents' output. These findings are not
challenged.
The threatened consequences to interstate commerce
are as immediate and as certain to flow from respondents'
unfair labor practices as were those which were held to
result from unfair labor practices in National:Labor Relations Board v. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp., supra; National Labor Relations Board v. Fruehauf Trailer Co.,
supra;NationalLaborRelationsBoardv. Friednan-Harry
Marks Clothing Co., supra; Santa Cruz Packing Co. v.
National Labor Relations Board, supra; Consolidated
Edison Co. v. National Labor Relations Board, supra.
That the volume of commerce affected is smaller than in
other cases in which the jurisdiction of the Board has been
upheld, for reasons already stated, is in itself without
significance.
Reversed.
MR.JusTcC McREYNOLDS, dissenting:
MR.JusTcIC BUTLFR and I conclude that the challenged
judgment should be affirmed.
Respondent, Benjamin Fainblatt, as sole owner, conducts a small plant for manufacturing wearing apparel
located at Somerville, New Jersey, where he employs some
sixty women. There he receives material belonging to
Lee Sportswear Company of New York and under contract converts this into garments. These are delivered to
the company's representative and payment is made for
the work done. The owner sends the finished products
to New York.
The Labor Board claims jurisdiction in respect of employment at this establishment upon the theory that the
material and garments move in interstate commerce;

610

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

306 U. S.

that disapproved labor practices there may lead to disputes; that these may cause a strike; that this may reduce the factory output; that because of such reduction
less goods may move across the state lines; and thus there
may come about interference with the free flow of commerce between the states which Congress has power to
regulate. So, it is said, to prevent this possible result
Congress may control the relationship between the employer and those employed. Also, that the size of the
establishment's normal output is of minor or no importance. If the plant presently employed only one woman
who stitched one skirt during each week which the owner
regularly accepted and sent to another state, Congressional
power would extend to the enterprise, according to the
logic of the Court's opiniorn.
Manifestly if such attenuated reasoning-possibility
massed upon possibility--suffices, Congress may regulate
wages, hours, output, prices, etc., whenever any product
of employed labor is intended to pass beyond state linespossibly if consumed next door. Producers of potatoes in
Maine, peanuts in Virginia, cotton in Georgia, minerals
in Colorado, wheat in Dakota, oranges in California, and
thousands of small local enterprises become subject to national direction through a Board.
Of course, no such result was intended by those who
framed the Constitution. If the possibility of this had
been declared the Constitution could not have been
adopted. So construed, the power to regulate interstate
commerce brings within the ambit of federal control most
if not all activities of the Nation; subjects states to the
will of Congress; and permits disruption of our federated
system.
Kidd v. Pearson (1888) 128 U. S. 1, 20, 21, lucidly
pointed out the necessary result of this subversive doctrine, showed how it had long been authoritatively rejected, and demonstrated its utter absurdity. A few

LABOR BOARD v. FAINBLATT.
601

McREYNOLDs, J., dissenting.

paragraphs from that opinion may quicken estimation of
what now impends.
"We think the construction contended for by plaintiff
in error would extend the words of the grant to Congress,
in the Constitution, beyond their obvious import, and is
inconsistent with its objects and scope. The language of
the grant is, 'Congress shall have power to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several States,'
etc. These words are used without any veiled or obscure
signification. 'As men whose intentions require no concealment generally employ the words which most directly
and aptly express the ideas they intend to convey, the
enlightened patriots who framed our Constitution, and
the people who adopted it, must be understood to have
employed words in their natural sense and to have intended what they have said.' Gibbons v. Ogden, supra,
at page 188 [9 Wheat. 1, 188].
"No distinction is more popular to the common mind,
or more clearly expressed in economic and political literature, than that between manufactures and commerce.
Manufacture is transformation-the fashioning of raw
materials into a change of form for use. The functions of
commerce are different. The buying and selling and the
transportation incidental thereto constitute commerce;
and the regulation of commerce in the constitutional sense
embraces the regulation at least of such transportation.
The legal definition of the term, as given by this court in
County of Mobile v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691, 702, is as
follows: 'Commerce with foreign countries, and among
the States, strictly considered, consists in intercourse and
traffic, including in these terms navigation, and the transportation and transit of persons and property, as well as
the purchase, sale, and exchange of commodities.' If it
be held that the term includes the regulation of all such
manufactures as are intended to be the subject of commercial transactions in the future, it is impossible to deny

612

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

306 U. S.

that it would also include all productive industries that
contemplate the same thing. The result would be that
Congress would be invested, to the exclusion of the
States, with the power to regulate, not only manufactures, but also agriculture, horticulture, stock raising, domestic fisheries, mining-in short, every branch of human
industry. For is there one of them that does not contemplate, more or less clearly, an interstate or foreign
market? Does not the wheat grower of the Northwest,
and the cotton planter of the South, plant, cultivate, and
harvest his crop with an eye on the prices at Liverpool,
New York, and Chicago? The power being vested in
Congress and denied to the States, it would follow as an
inevitable result that the duty would devolve on Congress
to regulate all of these delicate, multiform, and vital interests-interests which in their nature are and must be,
local in all the details of their successful management."
The doctrine approved in Kidd v. Pearson has been
often applied. It was the recognized view of this Court
for more than a hundred years.
United States v. E. C. Knight Co., (1895) 156 U. S. 1,
16 declared"Slight reflection will show that if the national power
extends to all . . .productive industries, whose ultimate
result may affect external commerce, comparatively little
of business operations and affairs would be left for state
control."
Oliver Iron Co. v. Lord, (1923) 262 U. S.172, 178"Mining is not interstate commerce, but, like manufacturing, is a local business subject to local regulation
and taxation. . . . Its character in this regard is intrinsic, is not affected by the intended use or disposal of the
product, is not controlled by contractual engagements,
and persists even though the business be conducted in
close connection with interstate commerce."
Schechter Corp. v. United States, (1935) 295 U. S.495,
546, 548, 549, 550-

LABOR BOARD v. FAINBLATT.
601

McREYNeLDS, J., dissenting.

"If the commerce clause were construed to reach all
enterprises and transactions which could be said to have
an indirect effect upon interstate commerce, the federal
authority would embrace practically all the activities of
the people and the authority of the State over its domestic concerns would exist only by sufferance of the federal government . .. The distinction between direct
and indirect effects of intrastate transactions upon interstate commerce must be recognized as a fundamental one,
essential to the maintenance of our constitutional system.
. . . If the federal government may determine the wages
and hours of employees in the internal commerce of a
State . . . it would seem that a similar control might
be exerted over other elements of cost, also affecting
prices, such as the number of employees, rents, advertising, methods of doing business, etc. All the processes of
production and distribution that enter into cost could
likewise be controlled. . . . But the authority of the
federal government may not be pushed to such an extreme
as to destroy the distinction, which the commerce clause
itself establishes, between commerce 'among the several
States' and the internal concerns of a State. . . . The
recuperative efforts of the federal government must be
made in a manner consistent with the authority granted
by the Constitution."
Carter v. Carter Coal Co., (1936) 298 U. S. 238, 303,
309"Plainly, the incidents leading up to and culminating
in the mining of coal do not constitute such intercourse.
The employment of men, the fixing of their wages, hours
of labor and working conditions, the bargaining in respect
of these things-whether carried on separately or collectively-each and all constitute intercourse for the pur.
poses of production, not of trade. . . . The government's contentions in defense of the labor provisions are
really disposed of adversely by our decision in the

614

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
McREYNol s, J., dissenting.

306 U. S.

Schechter case ....
There is no basis in law or reason
for applying different rules to the two situations."
The present decision and the reasoning offered to support it will inevitably intensify bewilderment. The resulting curtailment of the independence reserved to the
states and the tremendous enlargement of federal power
denote the serious impairment of the very foundation of
our federated system. Perhaps the change of direction, no
longer capable of concealment, will give potency to the
efforts of those who apparently hope to end a system of
government found inhospitable to their ultimate designs.

