OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

306 U. S.

copyright for a term which may extend by renewal to
fifty-six years for those who do comply. Petitioner having conceded that it disobeyed a plain requirement of the
Act designed to inform and protect the public, I cannot
agree that it should recover damages under the very law
it admittedly disobeyed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

and MR.

JUSTICE REED

concur in

this dissent.

UTAH FUEL CO. ET AL. v. NATIONAL BITUMINOUS
COAL COMM'N ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.

No. 528.

Argued January 3, 1939.-Decided January 30, 1939.

An order of the National Bituminous Coal Commission directed its
secretary to make available to interested parties, for possible use
in evidence in a hearing which was to be held by the Commission to determine the weighted average of the total costs per
ton of coal produced in certain areas, certain cost and sales realization data theretofore furnished by producers pursuant to an order
under § 10 (a) of the Bituminous Coal Act of 1937. Several
producers, members of the Bituminous Coal Code, filed a bill in
the District Court to enjoin the threatened disclosure. The bill
alleged, inter alia, that the petitioners were without other. adequate
remedy (the order not being reviewable under § 6 (b) of the
Act), and that they would sustain immediate and irreparable
damage from such disclosure; and further, that the Commission's proposed action was arbitrary and unreasonable, unauthorized by the statute, and in violation of a promise of privacy inferable from the order under which the data were filed and the
forms used for returns thereof. Held:
1. The suit was within the equity jurisdiction of the District
Court. P. 59.
The jurisdiction of the District Court is to be determined by
the allegations of the bill; and usually if the bill makes a claim
which if well founded is within the jurisdiction of the court, then
it is within that jurisdiction whether well founded or not.

UTAH FUEL CO. v. COAL COMM'N.
56

Opinion of the Court.
2. It was within the power of Congress to authorize publica-

tion by the National Bituminous Coal Commission of cost and sales
realization data filed by producers, and Congress did so authorize

such publication by § 10 (a) of the Bituminous Coal Act of 1937.

The order here attacked is valid and may not be enjoined. P. 61.
69 App. D. C. 333; 101 F. 2d 426, affirmed.
CERTIORARi, 305 U. S. 575, to review a decree affirming
the dismissal of a bill for an injunction.

Mr. J. V. Norman, with whom Mr. Robert E. Quirk was
on the brief, for petitioners.
Solicitor General Jackson, with whom Assistant Attorney General Arnold, and Messrs. Robert L. Stern and
Hugh B. Cox were on the brief, for respondents.
By leave of Court, Mr. Clarence A. Miller filed a brief
on behalf of the Aberdeen & Rockfish Railroad Co. et al.,
as amici curiae, in support of respondents.
MR.JUSTICE M'[cREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioners are producers--engaged in the business of
mining coal, and nembers of the "Bituminous Coal
Code,"-that is "producers accepting membership in the
Code." The National Bituminous Coal Commission,
created by Act April 26, 1937 (Ch. 127, 50 Stat. 72), purporting to proceed under § 10 (a), on July 15, 1937 issued
Order No. 15 which directed each producer of bituminous
coal to file within fifteen (lays complete report showing
for each mine detailed cost of tonnage produced and
realization prices derived from sale, during 1936. This
notice concluded"The Commission directs specific attention to the provisions of Section 10 of said Act relating to the confidential nature of the reports required under this order
and further gives notice that the penalties provided for

58

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

non-compliance with this order by the producer will be
strictly enforced."
Approved forms were distributed to producers for returns to the order. They contained the following in bold
type-"This report is required under the provisions of
the Bituminous Coal Act of 1937 and is therefore confidential." Petitioners made returns upon these forms.
March 30, 1938, the Commission announced that
thereafter it would give public notice of a hearing to determine the weighted average of total cost of the tonnage
of coal in the calendar year 1936 adjusted, etc. Further,
that upon such hearing the information obtained from
individual coal producers through Order 15 would be
made available for inspection and introduction in evidence; that § 10 (a) of the Act was construed to authorize
such disclosure.
Petitioners made formal objection to the March 30
action but the Commission after consideration announced
adherence and ordered"That the Secretary of the Commission be and he is
hereby directed to cause the individual cost returns of
the producers, as above described, to be made available
for inspection by interested parties in the final hearing
in the establishment of minimum prices and marketing
rules and regulations, so that the same will be available
for introduction in evidence if and when required."
Deeming this proposed action unauthorized and relying
upon § 6 (b) of the Act, one of the present petitioners
with others asked review in the Court of Appeals, District of Columbia. That court held the challenged action
was not reviewable by it and dismissed the petition August 1, 1938. Mallory Coal Co. v. National Bituminous
Coal Comm'n, 69 App. D. C. 166; 99 F. 2d 399. August
31, 1938, the Commission ordered its secretary to make
available for inspection to "interested parties who have

UTAtt FUEL CO. v. COAL COMM'N.
56

Opinion of the Court.

filed appearances in this proceeding," petitioners' cost,
etc., reports returned under Order 15.
September 7, 1938 petitioners by bill filed in the District Court, District of Columbia, sought an injunction
against the threatened disclosure. This set out the foregoing facts, stated that no adequate relief could be had
elsewhere, and that petitioners would sustain immediate
and irreparable damage if their reports were publicized.
It further averred that the Commission's proposed action
was unauthorized, arbitrary, unreasonable, and in flagrant
violation of the statute also the promis e of privacy inferable from Order 15 and the forms used for returns thereto.
The trial court held "the bill of complaint fails to state
a cause of action in that the acts of the defendants sought
to be enjoined are authorized by and not in violation of
the Bituminous Coal Act," and dismissed it upon motion.
The Court of Appeals concluded the District Court had
no jurisdiction over the controversy and upon that ground
approved the dismissal. 101 F. 2d 426. The matter is
here by certiorari.
We are unable to accept the view of the Court of Appeals. The District Court correctly ruled that the bill
fails to state a cause of action and for that reason properly directed the bill dismissed.
A question cognate to the one here presented was before us in Shields v. Utah Idaho Central Railroad Co., 305
U. S. 177, decided December 5, 1938, the date of the Court
of Appeals' decision herein. We there declared, although
determination by the Interstate Commerce Commission
that a railroad was not "interurban" did not constitute an
"order" reviewable under the Urgent Deficiencies Act of
October, 1913,' nevertheless in the circumstances disclosed, it could be subjected to judicial review by bill in
equity. "Equity jurisdiction may be invoked when it is
1 38 Stat. 208, 28 U. S. C. 41.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

essential to the protection of the rights asserted, even
though the complainant seeks to enjoin the bringing of
criminal actions."
Considering the circumstances here alleged, the great
and obvious damage which might be suffered, the importance of the rights asserted, and the lack of any other
remedy, we think complainants could properly ask relief
in equity. The jurisdiction of a District Court is to be
"determined by the allegations of the bill, and usually if
the bill or declaration makes a claim that if well founded
is within the jurisdiction of the Court it is within that
jurisdiction whether well founded or not." Hart v. B. F.
Keith Vaudeville Exchange, 262 U. S. 271, 273; also
Binderup v. Pathe Exchan~ge, 263 U. S. 291, 305; United
States v. Archibald McNeil & Sons, 267 U. S. 302, 307.
By admission, Congress could have authorized the
Commission to disclose the details of reports concerning
costs, etc. But petitioners insist that the Bituminous
Coal Act conferred no such power; on the contrary
definitely denies it.
The Act contains twenty-one sections and a schedule
of districts. Section 4-"The provisions of this section
shall be pronmulgated by the Commission as the 'Bituminous Coal Code', and are herein referred to is the
code." "Part I1-Iarketing" of this declares"The Commission shall have power to prescribe for
code members minimum and maximun prices, and marketing rules and regulations, as follows:
"(a) All code members shall report all spot orders to
such statistical bureau hereinafter provided for as may
be- designated by the Commission and shall file with it
copies of all contracts for the sale of coal, copies of all
invoices, copies of all credit memoranda, and such other
information concerning the preparation, cost, sale, and
distribution of coal as the Commission may authorize or
require. All such records shall be held by the statistical

UTAII FUEL CO. i. COAL COMM'N.
56

Opinion of the Court.

bureau as the confidential records of the code member filing such information.
"For each district there shall be established by the
Commission a statistical bureau which shall be operated
and maintained as an agency of the Commission.
Section 10 (a)"The Commission may require reports from producers
and may use such other sources of information available
as it deems advisable, and may require producers to
maintain a uniform system of accounting of costs, wages,
operations, sales, profits, losses, and such other matters as
may be required in the administration of this Act. No
information obtained from a producer disclosing costs of
production or sales realization shall be made public without the consent of the producer from whom the same
shall have been obtained, except where such disclosure is
made in evidence in any hearing before the Commission
or any court and except that such information may be
compiled in composite form in such manner as shall not
be injurious to the interests of any producer and, as so
compiled, may be published by the Commission."
Counsel submit an ingenious argument to show that as
petitioners are code members their returns to Order 15
are not within the ambit of § 10 and must be treated as
if presented under § 4, Part II (a) and therefore confidential. Also, that the challenged action of the Board
conflicts with the words, spirit and. general purposes of
the enactment.
We have examined the argument but cannot conclude
that the reasons advanced are adequate to support the
point taken.
The language of § 10 (a) applies to all producers and
we think allows what the Board proposes. It harmonizes rather than conflicts with the general purposes of
the statute to permit action by the Board only upon full
information. Obviously publication may be harmful to

62

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
306 U. S.

Syllabus.

petitioners but as Congress had adequate power to authorize it and has used language adequate thereto we
can find here no sufficient basis for an injunction.
Upon the ground and for the reasons herein stated
the decree of the District Court is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, concurring.

I concur in the affirmance of the decree of the District
Court. For reasons stated in the opinion of the Circuit
Court of Appeals,1 I believe that Court properly found
the District Court without jurisdiction.

FELT & TARRANT MANUFACTURING CO. v.

GALLAGHER

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN

No. 302.

Argued

DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

)ecember 13, 1938.-Decided January 30, 1939.

An Illinois corporation, not qualified to do local business' in California, solicited orders for its goods from California purchasers,
through agents for whom it hired offices in that State, and who
took the orders subject to the vendor's approval. Goods sold
were sent by the vendor from outside of California directly to the
purchasers or to the agents for distribution to them. Prices were
paid to the vendor directly, in Illinois. Held that California
constitutionally may apply to such nonresident corporation the
provision of its Use Tax Act requiring retailers maintaining a
place of business in the State, and making sales of tangible personal property for storage, use or other consumption therein, to
collect from the purchasers the taxes imposed. P. 64.
The Act, so applied, ii consistent with the commerce clause,
and with the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
23 F. Supp. 186, affirmed.
1101 F. 2d 426.

