INLAND STEEL CO. v. U. S.
Statement of the Case.

INLAND STEEL CO. v. UNITED STATES

ET

AL.*

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 227.

Argued January 3, 4, 1939.-Decided January 30, 1939.

1. In a suit by a shipper to set aside an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission requiring a carrier to cease paying the
shipper tariff allowances for spotting cars in the shipper's plant,
which the Commission had found unlawful, the District Court
in granting an interlocutory injunction imposed the condition,
without objection from the shipper, that further payments be
withheld by the carrier, in a separate account, to be paid over
to the shipper or canceled upon further order of the court. Held
within the equitable power of the court, though not requested by
the carrier nor, specifically, by the Commission. P. 156.
2. The power of the District Court so io impound the allowances
and, finally, upon sustaining the Commission and dismissing the
bill, to order that the fund be retained by the carrier, was not
affected by the fact that because of the preliminary injunction,
the carrier had kept in force its published tariff providing for
the allowances, or by the fact that for the same reason the Commission had undertaken to postpone the effective date of its
order. Pp. 158, 159.
3. Apart from the primary issue of the validity of the allowances,
it was not necessary that evidence be taken and special findings
.be made with respect to the disposition of the impounded fund.
P. 161.
Affirmed.
APPEALS from decrees of the District Court ii suits
to set aside orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission restraining carliers from paying allowances for spotting cars to plaintiff-appellant shippers. See 23 F. Supp.
291. These appeals were directed only to provisions of
*

Together with No. 228, Chicago By-Product Coke Co. -v. United

States et al., also on appeal from the Dist.'ict Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Illinois.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

the final decrees requiring that funds resulting from
impounding of the allowances during the suit be retained
by the carriers.
Mr. John S. Burchmore, with whom Mr. Nuel D.
Belnap was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Edward M. Reidy, with whom Solicitor General
Jackson, Assistant Attorney General Arnold, and Messrs.
Elmer B. Collins, Daniel W. Knowlton, Chief Counsel,
I. C. C., and Nelson Thomas were on the brief, for
appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.

In No. 227, after full hearings the Interstate Commerce
Commission, on July 11, 1935, found and reported' that
the Indiana Harbor Belt Railroad was engaged in the
practice of paying an allowance for appellant's service in
spotting cars in appellant's plant; 2 that appellant was
performing this plant service for its own convenience;
that the Railroad was under no legal obligation to spot
..he cars and therefore the allowance was paid for service.
f16r which the Railroad was not compensated under linehaul rates; that the allowance was unlawful and afforded
appellant a preferential service, not accorded to shippers
generally, amounting to refund or remission of part of
the rates charged or collected as compensation for transporting freight. On the same date, an order of the Commission incorporated its report and findings, including the
finding that "by the payment of said allowances the Indiana Belt Railroad Company violates the Interstate
Commerce Act." This order also directed the Railroad
1209 . C. C. 747; 216 I. C. C. 8 (No. 228).
2 "Spotting" involves handling of cars between the point of interchange between the Railroad and appellant and the points at which
such cars are unloaded or loaded in appellant's plant.

INLAND STEEL CO. v. U. S.
153

Opinion of the Court.

to "cease and desist on or before September 3, 1935, and
thereafter to abstain from such unlawful practice."
August 28, 1935, upon petition of appellant, the District Court, three judges sitting, granted an interlocutory
injunction by which the Commission's report and order
were "suspended, stayed, and set aside"-"pending the
further order of the court"; the Commission was restrained and enjoined from enforcing them; and, the
Railroad having previously given public notice that its
published tariff providing for the allowance would be
cancelled as of September 3, 1935, in accordance with the
Commission's order, the injunction suspended the effective date of the cancellation. But the interlocutory injunction also provided "that until the further order of
the Court, any and all sums due and payable to plaintiff
[appellant], under the . . . tariff providing said allowance, shall be set up by defendant Indiana Harbor Belt
Railroad Company on its books of account, which sums
so set up shall be paid over to . . . [appellant], or canceled, only upon the further order of this Court, [appellant] . . . by its counsel having agreed in open court to
such arrangement, without prejudice."
February 26, 1937, the Commission entered an order
purporting to extend the effective date of its command
to "cease and desist" to June 15, 1937, but specifically
provided that its order of July 11, 1935, should "in all
other respects remain in full force and effect."
April 27, 1938, the District Court dismissed appellant's
petition for want of equity, dissolved the interlocutory injunction, and ordered the accrued allowances that had
been set aside in a special account by the Railroad as required by the interlocutory injunction to "be retained by
. . . [the Railroad] as a part of its general funds and said
account canceled."
Appellant concedes the correctness of the District
Court's decree holding the Commission's order valid, dismissing the petition and denying a permanent injunc-

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

tion.' The appeal only seeks a review of the court's
action in ordering that the unlawful allowances accumulated after the date of the interlocutory injunction be retained by the Railroad and not paid to appellant.
First. In granting the interlocutory injunction, the
District Court proceeded under a jurisdictional Act
which provides that ". . . the couo't, in its discretion, may
restrain or suspend, in whole or in part, the operation of
the commission's order pending the final hearing and
determination of the suit." ' Appellant invoked the
court's equity powers.
A court of equity "in the exercise of its discretion,
frequently resorts to the expedient of imposing terms and
conditions upon the party at whose instance it proposes
to act. The power to impose such conditions is founded
upon, and arises from, the discretion which the court
has in such cases, to grant, or not to grant, the injunction applied for. It is a power inherent in the court,
as a court of equity, and has been exercised from time
immemorial." I
. In the exercise of its discretion, the District Court imposed conditions in its decree granting appellant's petition for an interlocutory injunction. Appellant neither
objected to the conditions nor sought review of the
court's action in imposing them, but under the interlocutory injunction enjoyed for three years the suspensionwhich it had sought-of the Commission's order, pending
litigation. Now, the litigation ended, appellant insists
that the District Court lacked jurisdiction to do more
See, United States v. American Sheet & Tin Plate Co., 301 U. S.
402; United States v. Pan-American Petroleum Corp, 304 U. S.156.
428 U. S. C. 46.
5Cf., Ford Motor Co. v. NationalLabor Relations Board, 305 U. S.
364.
11Russell v. Farley, 105 U. S.433, 438; Meyers v. Block, 120 U. S.
206, 214.
3

INLAND STEEL CO. v. U. S.
153

Opinion of the Court.

than vacate its interlocutory injunction and dismiss the
petition, since no pleadings of the Railroad or the Cominssioi sought the creation of the special allowance account. But this overlooks the governing principle that
it is the duty of a court of equity granting injunctive relief to do so upon conditions that will protect all-including the public-whose interests the injunction may affect.7 And the Commission, in defending its report and
order, acted under its statutory duty as the representative
of the interest which the public, as well as the railroads,
have in the maintenance of fair, reasonable and nondiscriminatory transportation practices." Moreover, in
intervening the Commission prayed that it have "the
benefit of such ...decrees or relief as may be just and
proper."
The Interstate Commerce Commission has primary
jurisdiction to determine whether the granting of allowances for services performed by shippers constitutes a
discriminatory practice.' Here, in the exercise of its
primary jurisdiction, the Commission considered the
technical questions involved and made findings that the
Railroad's practice was unlawfully preferential and discriminatory. In doing so, the Commission was acting
in the interest of shippers generally and in behalf of the
public and the national railroad system. The District
Court, at the behest of this appellant, restrained the enforcement of the Commission's report and order embodying these findings. While thus acting in the interest of
7 Central Kentucky

Co. v. Railroad Comm'n, 290 U. S. 264, 271.

,,Arkadelphia Milling Co. v. St. Louis S. W. Ry. Co., 249 U. S.
134, 146; Smith v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 245 U. S. 33, 42,
43, 45; cf. Ex parte Lincoln Gas Co., 256 U. S. 512, 511; 49 U. S. C.
§§ 15a, 43.
1 Mitchell Coal & Coke Co. v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 230 U. S. 247;
St. Louis, B. & M. Ry. Co. v. Brownsville Navigation Dist., 304 U. S.
295; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

a single shipper, the court properly took steps to protect
the other interests-represented by the Commissionfrom injuries that the injunction might cause. It did
so by ordering the payments, which the Commission had
fdund unlawful, to be continued-on condition that they
be segregated or paid into a separate account, pending
the court's review of the Commission's finding of illegality. This segregated account thus accrued as a result
of judicial restraint of administrative proceedings in
which the payments had been declared unlawful. When
the court finally determined that the administrative findings and order were correct, appellant could claim an
interest in the fund only by asserting a right to payments
forbidden by law, and it became the duty of the court
promptly to allocate the fund to its lawful owner.
An equity court having lawful control of a fund, in
which there may be interests represented only by a duly
authorized governmental agency, has the power and is
charged with the duty of protecting those interests in
disposing of the fund.'" Otherwise, rights (such as the
right of this Railroad to restitution) might be impaired
or cut off while an interlocutory injunction is in effect,
as for instance by statutes of limitation. Here, the court
had the power and it was its duty so to fashion its equitable decree that appellant should not be the beneficiary
of unlawful payments, and to prevent the dissipation of
the Railroad's assets through unlawful preferences.
Second. Appellant further insists that the court had no
power to impose the particular conditions here, because
the Railroad was ordered to retain (in a special account)
allowances provided for in its published tariff. This contention rests on the statutory requirement that published
However, before the court
tariffs must be observed."
10

Central Kentucky Co. v. Railroad Comm'n, stipra.

1 49 U. S. C. § 6 (7).

INLAND STEEL CO. v. U. S.
153

Opinion of the Court.

acted, the Commission had found and reported-and had
incorporated its findings and report in an order-that
these allowances provided in the published tariff were
unlawful preferences violating the Interstate Commerce
Act. The Commission had also ordered that payment of
the unlawful allowances cease, and the Railroad had already-in obedience to the Commission's order-published
a new tariff eliminating the allowance provision. But,
six days before the new tariff would by its terms have
become effective, appellant sought and obtained the preliminary injunction which did not destroy, but tentatively suspended the Commission's report and order and
also tentatively suspended the Railroad's tariff canceling
the unlawful allowance. The Railroad then republished
the old tariff, thus-under court order-restoring the unlawful allowance. When the court subsequently dismissed appellant's petition and vacated the interlocutory
injunction "in all respects," it thereby found the Commission's report and order valid, and they were then in
effect as though the injunction had never been granted.
Thus, during the period the injunction was pending (save
for the first six days), the published tariff had contained
the unlawful allowance solely because of the court's injunction. To sustain the contention of appellant that the
provision for allowances in the published tariff limited
the authority of the court to prevent their payment would
be to clothe a published tariff, in existence solely by
reason of equitable intervention, with an immunity from
equity itself. The Interstate Commerce Act grants no
such immunity. 2
Third. The appellant takes the position that the Commission's purported postponement of its command to
cease and desist (eighteen months after the interlocutory
12

Cf. Merchants Warehouse Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 501,

160

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

injunction was granted) deprived the court of authority
to enforce the conditions of its interlocutory injunction.
However, since the court had exercised jurisdiction to review and suspend the Commission's report and order, the
administrative body was without power to act inconsistently with the court's jurisdiclion, had it attempted to do
so. 8 But, since the Commission had already been enjoined from enforcing its report and order when it entered
its postponement, there is no reason to construe the Commission's action as anything more than a recognition of
the postponement actually effected by the court's interlocutory injunction.
In addition, there were two separate aspects to the action of the Commission. It found an illegal practice in
existence that involved unlawful disbursement of the
Railroad's funds, contrary to the public interest. The
Commission also entered a cease and desist order to operate prospectively. Even if the Commission's postponement of the cease and desist portion of its order had been
operative, the Commission specifically left in effect its
ruling that the allowance was unlawful. 4
The Commission had exercised its primary jurisdiction
and had found the allowances unlawful; upon review, the
District Court properly approved this finding; the
13 Cf. Ford Motor Co. v. National Labor Relations Board, supra.
It is, therefore, immaterial that in No. 228 there were consecutive
purported postponements of the command to cease and desist, each
entered by the Commission before the expiration of the postponement
immediately preceding.
"Cf. Terminal Warehouse v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 291 U. S. 500,
507, 508. A suit at law based on a past alleged discriminatory practice may be stayed in order to permit the plaintiff to obtain the necessary preliminary ruling by the Commission. See Morrisdale Coal
Co. v. Pennsylvaria R. Co., 230 U. S. 304; Mitchell Coal & Coke
Co. v. Pennsylvania R. Co., supra; Southern Ry. Co. v. Tilt, 2 o
U. S. 428.

U. S. v. MIDSTATE CO.
153

Syllabus.

amount in the special allowance account was exactly
known and undisputed; this fund could have belonged
only to the Railroad or to appellant; the Railroad was in
possession of the fund and in equity and good conscience
was entitled to retain it. Therefore, there was no necessity to take evidence, and the action of the District Court
in disposing of the fund required no additional findings.
The final decree of 'the District Court properly directed
that the unlawful allowances should not be paid to appellant, and should be retained by the Railroad.
The questions presented in No. 228 are governed by
our conclusions here, and the judgments in both cases
are

Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. MIDSTATE HORTICULTURAL
CO. ET AL.*
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 286.

Argued January 13, 1939.-Decided January 30, 1939.

The Elkins Act, § 1, as amended, denounces, among other offenses,
the acts of granting or accepting any rebate or concession whereby
property in interstate commerce shall be transported at a rate
less than that named in the carrier's published tariffs. It provides that every violation shall be prosecuted in any court of the
United States having jurisdiction of crimes within the district
in which such violation was committed or through which the
transportation may have been conducted; and that whenever the
offense is begun in one jurisdiction and completed in another it
may be dealt with in either. Held that where the offenses charged
were the granting and receiving of rebates or concessions in re* Together with No. 287, United States v. Pennsylvania Railroad
Co., also on appeal from the District Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
133096°-39----1

