WICHITA CO. v. CITY BANK.
Statement of the Case.

WICHITA ROYALTY CO. ET AL. V. CITY NATIONAL

BANK OF WICHITA FALLS

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 314.

Argued January 6, 1939.-Decided January 30, 1939.

1. The opinion of the Supreme Court of Texas at an earlier stage of
this case, defining the liability of a bank for trust-funds transferred by a trustee from the trust account to a personal account,
and checked out and misappropriated by him after the bank had
accepted payment of his personal debts to the bank or an officer
thereof, with notice that the payments had their source in trust
funds, was not modified by the opinion of that court in Quanah,
Acme & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Wichita State Bank & Trust Co., 127
Tex. 407. P. 108.
The earlier opinion must be accepted as stating the law of
Texas, and it affords the appropriate guide for the federal court
so far as it may be applicable to the facts which have been developed on the trial there.
2. Decision on first appeal is not res judicata in subsequent hearing
of the case. P. 107.
3. Upon removal of a case for retrial after an appeal to and reversal by a state supreme court, it is the duty of the federal court
to determine and apply the state law to local questions as the
state court would have done, and, where the state court holds
itself free to modify or recede from its own opinions, the federal
court is free to examine later opinions of the state court in order
to ascertain the applicable state law. P. 107.
4. The Circuit Court of Appeals properly directed remand of this
case to the District Court for findings of fact and conclusions of
law in accordance with Equity Rule 701/2. P. 110.
95 F. 2d 671; 97 id. 249, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 305 U. S. 587, to review the reversal of a
decree in a case removed from a state court. The District Court had denied recovery on certain claims and
counterclaims which were involved in the original suit.
This Court affirms the judgment of the court below in
remanding the case for findings of fact and conclusions of

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

law, but differs from that court in respect of principles
applicable in disposition of the case.
Messrs. Ray Bland and Guy Rogers, with whom Mr.
J. T. Montgomery was on the brief, for petitioners.
Messrs. Leslie Humphrey and T. R. Boone for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

We are asked to determine whether the Circuit Court
of Appeals correctly applied the law of Texas in a suit
upon a cause of action arising in that state between a
Texas association acting under a declaration of trust and
a national bank doing business there.
The proceedings in the present litigation have been
extensive and complex but only those relevant to the issue
presented here need be detailed. Respondent, the City
National Bank of Wichita FIls, brought suit in a Texas
court against the association, petitioner here, and its
trustee to recover on two promissory notes, one made and
the other endorsed by petitioner. They filed a crossaction against the bank, impleading its vice-president, to
recover a deposit balance in favor of petitioner on the
ground that the bank had improperly charged the account with drafts drawn upon it by Peckham, a former
trustee of petitioner, or at his direction, and that Peckham, in breach of trust, had used the proceeds in part to
pay his own deb. to the bank or its vice-president, and
in part for other expenditures for his own benefit.
The misappropriations were alleged to have been effected by the withdrawal of funds from the deposit account by a large number of checks signed by Peckham as
trustee, or at his direction, and payable to his own order
or to the bank. Some were alleged to have been credited
by the bank in payment of the trustee's personal debts
and some to, his personal account with the bank, from

WICHITA CO. v. CITY BANK.
103

Opinion of the Court.

which he later withdrew a substantial part of the amounts
so deposited and used it for his own purposes. Petitioner
contended that some of the funds thus withdrawn from
his personal account were used in payment of his personal
debts to the bank or its vice-president and that the bank
and its vice-president, because of the transactions with
the bank and the form of the checks, had notice of and
had participated in the breaches of trust or some
of them and to that extent were liable for all the
misappropriations.
The trial court directed a verdict and entered judgment
in favor of the bank on the notes and against petitioner
on its cross-action. On appeal the Supreme Court of
Texas reversed and remanded the cause for a new trial
upon such further evidence as might be adduced, and in
its opinion stated the applicable principles of law for the
guidance of the trial court. 127 Tex. 158, 184. Meanwhile, the bank had closed its doors. Its assets were
taken over by respondent, the newly organized City National Bank in Wichita Falls, which assumed the liabilities of the old bank.
On the remand the directors and the liquidating agent
of the old bank and the new bank were made parties
defendant to the cross-action by petitioner association,
and the pleadings were amendeUd so as to charge the new
individual defendants with responsibility for the liability
originally asserted against the old bank, and also to charge
the new bank by reason of its acquisition of the assets
and its assumption of the liabilities of the old one.
The cause was then removed to the federal District
Court for northern Texas, under ยง 28 of the Judicial Code,
28 U. S. C. ยง 71. On the trial of the cause there, in the
course of which voluminous evidence was taken before a
commissioner, the District Court denied recovery to the
old bank on the promissory notes and to the association
upon its claim against the old bank and the various other

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

parties sought to be charged with its liability, but directed
that jurisdiction be retained to wind up the affairs of the
insolvent bank. ยง 24 (16) of the Judicial. Code, 28
U. S. C. ยง 41 (16); International Trust Co. v. Weeks, 203
U. S. 364.
The Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit set aside
the decree because of the failure of the trial court to
make findings of fact and state conclusions of law as required by Equity Rule 701/2. 95 F. 2d 671. In remanding the cause the court stated, for the guidance of the
trial court, principles of law which it thought applicable
to the cause of action asserted by the association. These
were at variance with those which the Texas Supreme
Court in its earlier remand of the case had declared to be
controlling. It rejected in'
part the rulings of the state
court because it thought that the questions presented
were of general commercial law, with respect to which
the federal courts were not bound by local decisions, and
that the rules which the Texas courts had adopted were
not favored by the decisions of the federal and some
state courts.
In its opinion denying a second petition for rehearing,
97 F. 2d 249, presented after ourdecision in Erie Railroad Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64, the court disclaimed
any purpose not to follow the law of Texas, but reaffirmed its instructions for the trial court on the ground
that they were in harmony with the opinion of the Supreme Court of Texas in a later case, Quanah, Acme &
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Wichita State Bank & Trust Co., 127
Tex. 407; 93 S. W. 2d 701, which the Court of Appeals
thought had modified and restricted the rules announced
by the state court on the appeal in this case. We granted
certiorari, 305 U. S. 587, on a petition urging that it was
the duty of the Court of Appeals to apply the law as
defined by the Supreme Court of Texas on the first ap-

WICHITA CO. v. CITY BANK.
103

Opinion of the Court.

peal, the question, concerning the relations of the federal
and state courts, being of public importance.
In departing from the "law of the case," as announced
by the state court, and applying a different rule, the
court below correctly stated that by reason of the removal
it had been substituted for the Texas Supreme Court as
the appropriate court of appeal and that it was its duty
to apply the Texas law as the Texas court would have
declared and applied it on a second appeal if the cause had
not been removed. It was the duty of the federal court
to apply the law of Texas as declared by its highest court.
Eric Railroad Co. v. ,Tompkins, supra. But the case on
the first appeal had not become res judicata. Remington
v. Central Pacific R. Co., 198 U. S. 95, 99, 100; Messenger
v. Anderson, 225 U. S. 436, 444; Diaz v. Patterson, 263
U. S. 399, 402; Seagraves v. Wallace, 69 F. 2d 163, 164,
165. And since the Supreme Court of Texas holds itself
free upon reconsideration to modify or recede from its
own opinions, see Quanah, Acme & Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Wichita State Bank & Trust Co., supra, superseding 89
S. W. 2d 385, the court below, in applying the local law,
was likewise free to depart from the earlier rulings to the
extent that examination of the later opinions of the Texas
Supreme Court showed that it had modified its opinion
on the first appeal. Hence the only question for our decision is whether the Court of Appeals rightly concluded
that the state court had thus altered its opinion.
The Court of Appeals held, as did the Texas Supreme
Court, that the old bank, so far as it had accepted payment of the trustee's personal debts from his personal
account, with notice that the payments had their source
in trust funds, had become liable for tne trustee's misaipropriations by reason of its participation in them. But
the two courts differed with respect to the liability of the
bank for trust funds commingled with the trustee's per-

108

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

sonal account and later withdrawn and used for his personal benefit. The state court had ruled that the bank
was responsible for all such misappropriations as took
place after it had knowingly accepted trust funds in payment of the trustee's personal debts. Pointing out that
there was evidence of such transactions, it declared, 127
Tex. 158, 174, 175: "the Bank, after being charged with
knowledge of Peckham's dishonest dealings, continued to
credit Peckham's personal account with checks drawn on
the Trust account, and persisted in its course of dealings
with respect to the two accounts. Having incurred the
burden of ascertaining whether subsequent expenditures
made by the Trustee from the commingled funds were
for authorized Trust purposes, it cannot effectively complain of the weight of that burden." And it concluded,
127 Tex. 158, 182: "It is apparent from what has been
stated that the amount of the Bank's liability is the difference between the total amount of the deposits [of
trust moneys] for which Peckham's personal account received credit after he began commingling Trust funds
with his own on October 8, 1925, and the total amount of
withdrawals therefrom which the Bank may show were
used for authorized Trust purposes." I
The court below, relying on the decision of the Texas
Supreme Court in the later Quanah case, declined to accept this conclusion. Instead it declared that the bank
was not chargeable with notice of the trustee's misappropriations through withdrawal and use of trust funds
deposited in his personal account by the bare fact of its
knowledge that the trustee had previously paid his per'The opinion assumed that all the funds in the personal account
on October 8, 1925, were trust funds and that on November 17, 1925,
the trustee paid his personal indebtedness to the bank from those
funds. 127 Tex. 158, 168. in its opinion on the motion for rehearing
the court stated that these assumptions were not to be taken as foreclosing proof of the facts upon the new trial. 127 Tex. 158, 184.

WICHITA CO. v. CITY BANK.
103

Opinion of the Court.

sonal debts to the bank with trust funds passed through
his personal account. But the Quanah case presented a
different question from that considered by the Texas
court in the present case. The former involved no question of actual knowledge and participation by the bank
in the misappropriation of trust funds. There an officer of a corporation deposited its funds in his personal
account in a bank with which the corporation had no
account. The bank had knowledge that the funds or
some of them belonged to the corporation and not to the
officer personally, but it, paid them out on the order of
the officer, who appropriated them to his own use. In
holding that the bank was not liable, the court adopted
the rule, for which it found support in the decisions of
other courts and in text writers, that the bank in such
circumstances is not liable for the misappropriation. The
court was at pains to point out that a different rule would
have been applicable if, before the withdrawals from the
account, "the bank [had] actively participated in the
spoliation of the trust fund and knowingly received a
part of the fund to itself in payment of the trustee's individual debt to it," citing its opinion in the present case.
127 Tex. 407, 421, 422.
Even if we thought this distinction not well taken,
nothing requires the state courts to adopt the rule which
the federal or other courts may believe to be the better
one, or to be consistent in their decisions if they do not
choose to be. That the distinction taken in the Quanah
case was advisedly made and was not intended to modify
the rule announced by the state court on the appeal in
this case, appears from the opinions in both cases. On
the same day that the final opinion in the Quanah case,
from which we have quoted, was delivered by the Texas
Supreme Court, it denied a petition for rehearing in the
present case, with an opinion, 127 Tex. 184, which left
undisturbed the principles announced in the first decision.

110

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

306 U. S.

In its final opinion in the Quanah case it said: "... . we
have again carefully reviewed the opinion in the Wichita
Royalty Co. et al. v. City National Bank of Wichita Falls
case, . . . dccided by this court on the same day the
case at bar was originally decided. . . . We are satisfied
with our opinion in the Wichita Royalty Company case
as explained by our opinion on rehearing in that case."
127 Tex. 407, 421, 422. As there is no contention that
the opinion of the Texas court in this case has in any
other respect been modified by the Quanah or any other
case in the Texas Supreme Court, we do not discuss other
parts of the opinion below which it is argued fail to follow
the opinion of the state court.
We think that the opinion of the Supreme Court of
Texas in the present case has not been modified by the
Quanah case and must be accepted as stating the law of
Texas; and that it affords the appropriate guide for the
District Court so far as it may be applicable to the facts
which have been developed on the trial there. As the
court below properly directed the remand for a stateinent of findings and conclusions of law under the equity
rule, the decree will be affirmed but the proceedings in
the District Court will be in conformity to this opinion.
Affirmed.
JIELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 329. Argued January 6, 1939.-Decided January 30, 1939.
1. Section 22 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1928, defining gross income,
was so general in its terms that an interpretative administrative
regulation letermining whether it included gain from the resale
by a corporition of its own stock was appropriate. P. 114.
2. Articlh 6i of Tre:tsury Reguations 74, promulgated under the
Revenue .\ct of 1112%, specifically provided that for the purpose

