U. S. v. MIDSTATE CO.
153

Syllabus.

amount in the special allowance account was exactly
known and undisputed; this fund could have belonged
only to the Railroad or to appellant; the Railroad was in
possession of the fund and in equity and good conscience
was entitled to retain it. Therefore, there was no necessity to take evidence, and the action of the District Court
in disposing of the fund required no additional findings.
The final decree of 'the District Court properly directed
that the unlawful allowances should not be paid to appellant, and should be retained by the Railroad.
The questions presented in No. 228 are governed by
our conclusions here, and the judgments in both cases
are

Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. MIDSTATE HORTICULTURAL
CO. ET AL.*
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 286.

Argued January 13, 1939.-Decided January 30, 1939.

The Elkins Act, § 1, as amended, denounces, among other offenses,
the acts of granting or accepting any rebate or concession whereby
property in interstate commerce shall be transported at a rate
less than that named in the carrier's published tariffs. It provides that every violation shall be prosecuted in any court of the
United States having jurisdiction of crimes within the district
in which such violation was committed or through which the
transportation may have been conducted; and that whenever the
offense is begun in one jurisdiction and completed in another it
may be dealt with in either. Held that where the offenses charged
were the granting and receiving of rebates or concessions in re* Together with No. 287, United States v. Pennsylvania Railroad
Co., also on appeal from the District Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
133096°-39----1

162

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

spect of transportation which had been completed and paid
for at tariff rates before the conception of the criminal transactions, venue was wrongly laid in a district through which
the transportation was conducted but which was not the district
in which the granting and receiving were alleged to have occurred.
P. 163.
Affirmed.

under the Criminal Appeals Act from judgments of the District Court sustaining demurrers to
APPEALS

indictments.
Mr. Wendell Berge, with whom Solicitor General Jackson, Assistant Attorney General Arnold, and Messrs.
N. A. Townsend, Elmer B. Collins, Frank Coleman, and
Hugh B. Cox were on the briefs, for the United States.
Mr. FrancisBiddle, with whom Messrs. Robert V. Massey, Jr., Frederic D. McKenney, Charles Myers, and
John Dickinson were on the brief, for appellee in No. 287.
Messrs. Henry Silverman and Samuel L. Einhorn submitted for appellees in No. 286.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These two appeals present for review a single question.
As stated by appellant the sole question in each appeal is
"whether or not the indictment charges the commission
of an offense against the United States in the Eastern
District of Pennsylvania, as it must, if appellees are to
be prosecuted therein. Constitution, Article 3, Section
2, Clause 3; Amendment VI.'
'Article 3, § 2, Clause 3 of the Constitution provides: "The Trial
of all Crimes, except in Cases of Impeachment, shall be by Jury;
and such Trial shall be held in the State where the said Crimes shall
have been committed; but when not committed within any State,
the Trial shall be at such Place or Places as the Congress may by

U. S. v. MIDSTATE CO.
161

Opinion of the Court.

The defendant in No. 287 was indicted in the Eastern
District of Pennsylvania charged with making unlawful
rebates on interstate shipments. Defendants in No. 286
were charged, by indictment in the same District, with
receiving the unlawful rebates. The District Court
sustained demurrers to both indictments. The Government appealed directly to this Court. Appellees moved
here to dismiss the appeals on identical grounds. The
motions to dismiss are denied in both cases.2
The record requires that we treat the indictments to
which demurrers were sustained as charging that rebates
or concessions were paid and received in New York in
1935 in connection with the transportation of goods in
1932 from California through the Eastern District of
Law have directed." Amendment 6 of the Constitution so far as
pertinent provides: "In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall
enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial by an impartial jury of
the State and district wherein the crime shall have been committed,
which district shall have been previously ascertained by law, ... "
The first ground of the motions to dismiss is that appeal was
not taken "within thirty days after the decision or judgment" as
required by 18 U. S. C., § 682. The court below wrote an opinion
in which it stated "the demurrers are sustained," and filed the
opinion June 16, 1938. But in accordance with the court's practice,
final order was not entered until July 2, 1938. In that order the
court sustained the demurrers and ordered defendants discharged.
The Government petitioned for appeal July 20, 1938, within eighteen
days after the final order was entered, but more than thirty days
after the written opinion had been filed. The appeals were from
the judgments and orders of July 2, and not the previous written
opinion. The second ground of the motions to dismiss is that the
Government did not have a right of direct appeal to this Court
granted by 18 U. S. C., § 682, which authorizes such an appeal where
judgment sustaining a demurrer "is based upon the invalidity or
construction of the statute upon which the indictment is founded."
The statute under which the indictments were returned provides expressly for the jurisdiction over offenses created by it, and the record
clearly discloses that the rulings on demurrers involved a construction of the statute.

164

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

Pennsylvania to New Jersey; that the full lawful rate
in accordance with published tariffs was paid when the
tansportation took place; and that prior to the time of
the payment and receipt of the alleged rebates in New
York in 1935 the carrier and shippers had neither agreed
nor intended that any rebate or concession should be
made. The Government concedes that the jurisdictional
provisions of the Elkins Act," on which the prosecutions
are based, require trial in the District in which a violation
of the Act is committed, but contends that the record discloses violations actually committed in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. This contention rests upon the
argument that the Elkins Act aims primarily to prevent
the result of obtaining transportation at less than the
lawful rate; that payment 'and receipt of rebates in 1935
served to accomplish such forbidden results-namely,
transportation in 1932 at less than the lawful rate; and,
since the transportation in 1932 passed through the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, the offenses were committed
and are'punishable there.
The statute defines offenses under it as follows:.
it shall be unlawful for any person, persons, or corporation to offer, grant, or give, or to solicit, accept, or receive
any rebate, concession, or discrimination in respect to
the transportation of any property in interstate ...
commerce by any common carrier . . . whereby any such
property shall by any device whatever be transported
at a less rate than that named in the tariffs published
and filed by such carrier, . . ." As to venue the statute
provides: "Every violation of this section shall be prosecuted in any court of the United States having jurisdiction of crimes within the district in which such violation
was committed, or through which the transportation may
have been conducted; and whenever the offense is be849 U. S. C., § 41(1), 34 Stat. 587.

U. S. v. MIDSTATE CO.
161

Opinion of the Court.

gun in one jurisdiction and completed in another it may
be dealt with, inquired of, tried, determined, and punished
in either jurisdiction in the same manner as if the offense had been actually and wholly committed therein."
We need not determine whether Congress intendedby providing for the trial of crimes "within the district
• . . through which the transportation may have been
conducted"-to confer jurisdiction in any District wherein a violation was not committed. The Government only
insists that the indictments here disclose offenses committed in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and urges
that the provision for trial in any District through which
illegal transportation is conducted is without meaning
unless applicable to these prosecutions.
But there are many offenses in the Act of which this
provision is a part to which the provision is clearly applicable. An illustration is that provided in the case of
Armour Packing Co. v. United States, 209 U. S. 56.
There an unlawful concession was given in the State of
Kansas before interstate shipment was made. Transportation passed through the State of Missouri. The recipient of the concession was tried in Missouri. It .7as
decided that the transaction constituted a continuing
offense beginning in Kansas, and that the defendant
could be tried in any District througl which the unlawful transportation took place. The Court said (at p. 76):
"We think the doctrine [of continuing offenses] . . .applies in the present case, for transportation is an essential
element of the offense, and, as we have said, transportation equally takes place over any and all of the traveled
route, and during transportationthe crime is being constantly committed." (Italics supplied.) The section of
the Elkins Act under which the present indictments were
drawn describes other offenses and, in addition, makes it
a misdemeanor for a carrier to violate any of the numerous criminal provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

Congress evidently intended to make it clear that as to
any of the many offenses in which "during transportation the crime is being constantly committed" prosecution could be had in any District through which the unlawful transportation moves.
We do not believe Congress intended that subsequent
conduct or events should stamp criminality upon an act
that was lawful, and wholly unrelated to any unlawful
plan or purpose, when done. Here, the full lawful rate
was paid for the transportation involved. The lawful
transportation through the Eastern District of Pennsylvania was not infected by relation to any unlawful agreement, purpose or intent at the time it occurred. The
record shows no offense that began in 1932 and continued
until 1935. As was clearly 'set forth by the Circuit Court
of Appeals in the Armour Packing Co. case: ' "A continuing offense is a continuous, unlawful act or series of
acts set on foot by a single impulse and operated by an
unintermittent force, however long a time it may occupy.
Where such an act or series of acts runs through several
jurisdictions, the offense is committed and cognizable in
each. . . . The transportation of the goods in this case
into and through the Western district of Missouri, at the
illegal through rate, was the continuing operation and
effect in that district of its primary cause, the receipt of
the concession and the delivery of the oil by the shipper
to the carrier thereunder for transportation in foreign
commerce, and even if the shipper's offense was complete
in Kansas, it may have been committed in Missouri also,
where its operation continued and took effect." (Italics
supplied.)
The legal transportation of goods at a lawful rate
through the Eastern District of Pennsylvania without intent, purpose, or agreement to commit any part of a crime
153 F. 1, 5, 6.

Cf., United States v. Lombardo, 241 U. S. 73, 77.

SOUTHERN PAC. CO. v. GALLAGHER.
161

167

Statement of the Case.

did not give the District Court of the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania jurisdiction to try these defendants under
the Elkins Act. On this record no violation of the Elkins
Act was begun, continued or brought about ' in that District. The demurrers were properly sustained and the
judgments are
Affirmed.
SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. GALLAGHER ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 212. Argued December 12, 1938.-Decided January 30, 1939.
1. California tax on storage and use-i. e., upon retention and exer.
cise of ownership-may be applied consistently with the commerce clause and the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to an interstate railroad company in respect of supplies purchased outside of the State and brought in for prompt application
in the operation of its road, such as office supplies, and rails,
equipment, machinery, tools, etc., used in replacements, repairs and
extensions, and including articles ordered out of the State on specifications suitable only for use in the transportation facilities and
installed immediately upon arrival at the Califotnia destination.
P. 172.
2. There is an interval after the articles have reached the end of
their interstate movement and before their consumption in interstate operation has begun when the "use and storage" are subject
to local taxation. Helson & Randolph v. Kentucky, 279 U. S. 245,
distinguished. P. 176.
23 F. Supp. 193, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of a three-judge district court
refusing a permanent injunction and dismissing the bill
in a suit to restrain enforcement of the California Use
Tax. The court below had at first granted an interlocutory injunction, 20 F. Supp. 940.
5 Cf., United States v. Holte, 236 U. S. 140, 144.

