CHESEBRO v. LOS ANGELES CO. DIST.

459

Syllabus.

CHESEBRO v. LOS ANGELES COUNTY FLOOD
CONTROL DISTRICT ET AL.
APPEAL FROM TIE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 368. Argued February 1, 2, 1939.-Decided March 27, 1939.
1. By an amendment of the Los Angeles County Flood Control Act,
the flood control district created by that Act was authorized to
acquire certain designated drainage improvements located in a
number of drainage districts embraced within the flood control district, and to levy special assessments upon real estate within the
flood control district to meet drainage district obligations thereupon
assumed by the flood control district. An owner of land located
within the flood control district, but outside of any of the drainage
districts involved, sought by a proceeding in the state court to
prevent assessments under the amending Act, on the ground that
he was entitled to a hearing on the question of benefits and that
without such opportunity his property would be taken without due
process of law in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. The
state court ruled in effect that the legislature had impliedly made a
finding as to benefits and that therefore owners were not entitled to
be heard on that question. On appeal to this Court, the owner
contends that there was no foundation for the ruling of the state
court that the legislature had made a finding of benefits, and insists
that the amending Act deprives him of his constitutional right to be
heard. Held:
(1) The validity of the statute was appropriately drawn in
question in the state court, and its decision in substance was in favor
of the validity. P. 463.
(2) The question presented is not foreclosed by previous decisions
of this Court nor so clearly undebatable as to require dismissal for
lack of substance. P. 463.
(3) A contention that the judgment of the state court rested upon
an independent and adequate non-federal ground lacked merit.
P. 463.
(4) The state court's ruling that impliedly the legislature made
the requisite findngs as to benefits was not without adequate foundation and its judgment must be sustained. P. 466.
2. Where, within the scope of its power, the legislature itself has found
that the lands embraced within a special assessment district will be

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

specially benefited by certain improvements, prior appropriate and
adequate inquiry is presumed and, in the absence of flagrant abuse
or purely arbitrary action, the finding is conclusive. Formal or
express findings are not essential. P. 464.
11 Cal. 2d 395; 80 P. 2d 479, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the state supreme court
denying a writ of mandate. As to the City of Los Angeles, a co-appellant, the appeal was dismissed for want
of a federal question, 305 U. S. 564.
Mr. Bourke Jones, with whom Messrs. Ray L. Chesebro,
Frederick Von Schrader, and William H. Neal were on the
brief, for appellants.
Mr. TV. B. McKesson, with whom Mr. U. T. Clotfelter
was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Appellant maintains that a California statute authorizing an administrative board to levy special assessments
on his land within a flood control district created by the
legislature to pay cost of local improvements and facilities
and of their operation, maintenance, and betterment,
without providing him an opportunity to be heard on the
question of benefits, is repugnant to the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Chapter 755, Statutes 1915, creates the Los Angeles
flood control district. Section 2 declares that the purposes of the act are to provide for the control of the
flood and storm waters of the district, to conserve them
for beneficial uses, and to protect the property within
the district from damage by flood or storm waters. Seclion 16 empowers the board of supervisors of the district
to construct all improvements and to acquire all property
that is necessary or useful for carrying out the purposes
of the act.

CHESEBRO v. LOS ANGELES CO. DIST.
459

461

Opinion of the Court.

Chapter 642, Statutes 1937, added § 13
to the flood
control act. It provides: The board of supervisors of the
district may accept on its behalf, a transfer and conveyance of "all, but not less than all," storm drain improvements, drainage improvements or drainage systems
of defined classes lying within the district. Upon conveyance to the district of any such drainage works it shall
become liable for principal and interest of bonds thereafter maturing which were isgued by any drainage district
to pay the cost of constructing the transferred property.
For that purpose the board shall levy a special tax each
yeag upon the taxable real estate in the district.
A map, that with appellant's consent is included in appellees' brief, shows that the flood control district is
within and nearly as large as Los Angeles county which
contains almost 4,000 square miles and that within it
there are eleven drainage districts, two of which were
organized under Chapter 258, Statutes 1903, and amendatory acts, and nine of which were organized under Chapter 354, Statutes 1919, and amendatory acts.*
Appellant and the city of Los Angeles presented to the
highest court of the State their petition for a peremptory
writ of mandate. In substance it alleges: Petitioners own
taxable real property within the flood control district
and outside the drainage districts. December 1, 1937,
the board of supervisors of the district accepted a transfer to the district of the improvements and systems of the
eleven drainage districts. The board intends to levy annual special assessments against all real estate in that
*The two districts organized under the act of 1903 and amendatory acts are No. 1, containing 2093 acres, and No. 3, containing
835 acres. The numbers and areas of the nine organized under
the act of 1919 and amendatory acts are as follows: 8,-5785 acres;
9,-503 acres; 11,--3067 acres; 17,-103 acres; 22,-4017 acres;
23,-8786 acres; 25,--72 acres; 26,-2199 acres; 29,-1261 acres.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

district sufficient to meet the outstanding obligations incurred on account of the works so transferred. The levy
of these assessments will be illegal in that they will be
levied against property situated in the flood control district to pay the debts and obligations of other special
assessment districts without regard to the accrual of benefits to the lands assessed and will deprive petitioners of
their property without due process of law in violation of
the Fourteenth Amendment. The petition prays a peremptory writ of mandate to require appellees to levy
assessments in accordance with Chapter 755, Statutes
and to
1915, as it was prior to the addition of § 13
command them to refrain from levying any assessment
under that section.
Appellees demurred on the ground that the petition
failed to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. The state court sustained that contention and
denied the writ. It ruled: A finding by the legislature
that lands within the flood control district would be benefited by that district's acquisition of the works of the
drainage districts is conclusive unless shown to be without reasonable foundation. It must be presumed that,
by designating in § 131/2 the improvements authorized
to be transterred, the legislature found that the entire
flood control district would be specially benefited by the
acquisition. The particularity of the description implies
such a finding. The finding thus implied is as fully effective as if declared in express terms in the act itself.
Petitioners appealed to this court; appellees moved,
as to the city, to dismiss or affirm on the ground that no
federal question was involved; and, as to both appellants,
on the grounds that no substantial federal question was
presented, and that the decision below rests upon adequate non-federal grounds. We dismissed the city's appeal for want'of a substantial federal question and postponed to the hearing on the merits further consideration

CHESEBRO v. LOS ANGELES CO. DIST.
459

463

Opinion of the Court.

of the question of jurisdiction and of the motion to dismiss or affirm. 305 U. S.564.
That motion is denied. The validity of tne statute
under the federal constitution was by the petition appropriately drawn in question and in substance the decision of the state supreme court is in favor of its validity.
See Bryant v. Zimmerman, 278 U. S.63, 67-69. Its judgment does not depend upon characterization of the statute
or mere interpretation of the language employed. Its
decision is to the effect that the legislature found that
the real property within the flood control district would
be specially benefited by the acquisition of the district
drainage works and that therefore the appellant and
other owners are not entitled to be heard on the question
of benefits. Appellant contends there is no foundation
for the ruling that the legislature made that determination and that, as put in operation and effect by the State,
§ 13/2 deprives him of his constitutional right to be
heard. See St. Louis S. W. Ry. Cc. v. Arkansas, 235
U. S. 350, 362. Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington,
243 U. S. 219, 237. Railroad Commission v. Eastern
Texas R. Co., 264 U. S.79, 86. Mason Co. v. Tax Comm'n,
302 U. S. 186, 206-207. We are unable to say that the
question is foreclosed by our decisions or that it is so
clearly not debatable as to require dismissal for lack of
substance. Hamilton v. Regents, 293 U. S. 245, 258.
Alton Railroad Co. v. Illinois Commerce Comm'n, 305
U. S. 548. Nor do we find any merit in the contention
that the judgment rests upon. an independent non-federal
ground.
But we are of opinion that the judgment is right and
must be affirmed.
In the absence of flagrant abuse or purely arbitrary
action, the State, consistently with the federal constitution, may establish local districts to include real property
that it finds will be specially benefited by drainage, flood

464

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

control, or other improvements therein, and, to acquire,
construct, maintain and operate the same, may impose
special tax burdens upon the lands benefited. Hagar v.
Reclamation Dist., 111 U. S. 701, 704-705. Spencer v.
Merchant, 125 U. S. 345, 355. French v. Barber Asphalt
Paving Co., 181 U. S. 324, 342. And see Houck v. Little
River Drainage Dist., 239 U. S. 254, 262. And where,
within the scope of its power, the legislature itself has
found that the lands included in the district will be specially benefited by the improvements, prior appropriate and
adequate inquiry is presumed, and the finding is conclusive. Parsonsv. Districtof Columbia, 170 U. S. 45, 52.
Wagner, Inc. v. Leser, 239 U. S. 207, 218. Withnell v.
Ruecking Const. Co., 249 U. S. 63, 69. Hancock v. Muskogee, 250 U. S. 454, 458. Branson v. Bush, 251 U. S..
182, 189-190. Valley Farms Co. v. Westchester, 261 U. S.
155, 162 et seq. Milheim v. Moflat Tunnel Dist., 262
U. S. 710, 721. But where the district was not directly
created by the legislature and there has been no determination by it that their property will be benefited
by the local improvements the owners are entitled, under
the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, to
be heard by some officer or tribunal empowered by the
State to hear them and to consider and decide whether
their lands will be specially benefited. Fallbrook Irrigation Dist. v. Bradley, 164 U. S. 112, 167. Embree v.
Kansas City Road Dist., 240 U. S. 242, 247. Browning
v. Hooper, 269 U. S. 396, 405, 406.
The legislature need not adopt any form of statement
or finding for, in the enforcement of restraints imposed
by the federal constitution upon the power of States to
assess and collect taxes, this Court regards the substance
of their enactments as controlling rather than mere forms
of expression employed. Londoner v. Denver, 210 U. S.
373, 385. Appellant does not suggest that as a matter of
fact his land is not by the drainage works specially bene-

CHESEBRO v. LOS ANGELES CO. DIST.
459

Opinion of the Court.

fited or that a finding that it is so benefited would be
without foundation or arbitrary. Indeed, he concedes
that, if the legislature either by designatinig the territory
to comprise the district or by expressly so declaring has
made the finding, he is bound by it.
As shown by the opinion below, the state court long
before the addition of § 131/2, held that the mere passage
of the flood control act, which did not contain a direct
statement to that effect, "must be taken to import a
finding by the legislature that the proposed work will
answer a public purpose and that its execution will benefit the land within the district to such an extent as to
warrant the imposition upon such land of the cost in the
manner provided. The findings thus implied are as fully
effective as if declared in express terms in the act itself."
Los Angeles Flood Control Dist. v. Hamilton, 177 Cal.
119, 124-125; 169 P. 1028, 1030. The court deemed
that language applicable in disposing of appellant's contentions in this case. And we think that as the legislature
had knowledge of that decision when enacting the challenged provision, it must -be given great weight in determining the validity of § 13 .
The flood control district had long been in existence
and empowered to acquire property necessary for its purposes. Section 131/2 limited the board's authority to acceptanc.e of "all, but not less than all" the drainage works
and defined the tax burden to be imposed. The legislation is not to be distinguished from a measure to take
effect upon an event unrelated to the creation of the district or the imposition of special assessments.
No question is raised as to the validity of the flood
control district or its authority to levy special assessments.
on lands within it. By the enactment of the challenged
section, the legislature unquestionably intended that the
use of the drainage works should not be limited to the
purposes for which originally they were intended but
133006o-396-30

466

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

306 U. S.

that they should allo be used in connection with other
facilities for the purposes of the flood control district.
The challenged section was not enacted to create a new
assessment district but specially to authorize the one
already established to accept, maintain, and use the designated improvements for some of the purposes enumerated
in the flood control act. The essential features of the
challenged statute newssarily imply special benefits to the
lands in question. We think the state court's ruling that
impliedly the legislature made the requisite findings is
not without adequate foundation. Mere lack of formal
or express statement of them is not sufficient to require
reversal.
Judgment affirmed.

GRAVES

ET AL.,

COMMISSIONERS CONSTITUTING

THE STATE TAX COMMISSION OF NEW YORK,
v. NEW YORK EX REL. O'KEEFE.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 478. Argued March 6, 1939.-Decided March 27, 1939.
1. The receipt of salary by a resident of New York as an examining
attorney for the Federal Home Owners' Loan Corporation, is
constitutionally subject to non-discriminatory taxation by a State.
P. 475. '
2. For the purposes of this case it is assumed that the creation of
the Home Owners' Loan Corporation was a constitutional exercise of the powers of the FRderal Government, and that all activities of the Government constitutionally authorized by Congress
are governmental and stand on a parity with i,'spect to immunity
from state-taxation. P. 477.
3. Whether Congress, as an incident to the exercise of specifically
granted powers, has power to grant tax exemptions extending
beyond the constitutional immunity of federal agencies which
courts may imply, is a question not determined in this case.
P. 478.

