240

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

306 U. S.

The Government stresses the fact that each of the distributors must have acted with knowledge that some or
all of the others would grant or had granted Interstate's
demand. But such knowledge was merely notice to each
of them that if it was successfully to compete for the first
run business in important Texas cities it must meet the
terms of competing distributors or lose the business of
Interstate. It could compete successfully only by granting exclusive licenses to Interstate and injuring subsequent run houses by refusing them licenses,-a course
clearly lawful,-or by doing the less drastic thing of agreeing to protect the good will of its pictures by putting
necessary and, not severely burdensome restrictions
upon subsequent run exhibitors, which I think equally
lawful.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

and

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

join in this opinion.

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v. FANSTEEL METALLURGICAL CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 436. Argued January 12, 13, 1939.-Decided February 27, 1939.
1. Seizure and forcible retention of an employer's factory buildings
by employees, in a "sit-down" strike, is good cause for their discharge. P. 252.
2. The National Labor Relations Act does not undertake to abrogate
the right of an employer to refuse to retain in his employ those
who illegally take and.hold possession of his property. P. 255.
3. The National Labor Relations Act is not to be construed as compelling employers to retain persons in their employ regardless of
their unlawful conduct. In recognizing the right to strike it
contemplates a lawful strike; and where a strike, even though
actuated by unfair labor practices of the employer, is initiated

LABOR BOARD v. FANSTEEL CORP.
240

Argument for Petitioner.

and conducted in lawlessness by the seizure and retention of the
employer's property, and the strikers are discharged because of their
lawlessness, they do not remain "employees" within the meaning
of § 2 (3) and are not within the authority to reinstate "employees" reposed in the Board by § 10 (c). P. 256.
4. The provision of § 10 (c) of the Act, by which the Board may
require an employer to take such affirmative action as will "effectuate the policies" of the Act, does not authorize the Board to
require reemployment of men who have been discharged for such
unlawful conduct. P. 257.
5. Str~kers who aided and abetted a "sit-down" strike are in no
better case than the "sit-down" strikers themselves. Assuming
that, through not having been formally discharged, they retained
the status of "employes" by virtue of § 2 (3), that provision does
not automatically reinstate them; and the provision that the Board
may require "such affirmative action, including reinstatement of
employees" as will "effectuate the policies" of the Act, will not
countenance an order requiring reinstatement in such circumstances. P. 259.
6. An order of the National Labor Relations Board requiring reinstatement of employees must be supported by specific findings.
P. 261.
7. An order of the Board that the employer bargain with a particular
organization as exclusive representative of employees should not
be enforced where by reason of valid discharges and new employments there is no ground to conclude that the organization is the
choice of a majority of the employees for the purpose of collective
bargaining. P. 261.
S. An order of the Board requiring an employer to withdraw recognition from an organization of employees should be upheld where
there is substantial evidence that the formation of this organization was brought about through promotion efforts of the employer
contrary to the provision of § 8 (2) of the Act. P. 262.
98 F. 2d 375, affirmed with modifications.
CERTIORARI, 305 U. S. 590, to review a judgment setting
aside an order of the National Labor Relations Board.

Mr. Charles Fahy, with whom Solicitor General Jackson, and Messrs. Charles A. Horsky, Robert B. Watts,
Laurence A. Knapp, and Mortimer B. Wolf, and Ruth
Weyand were on the brief, for petitioner.
133O96-39-1 6

242

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Argument for Petitioner.

306 U. S.

The cease and desist portions of the order directed to
violations of §§ 8 (1) and (5) of the Act are valid if the
findings of the Board are supported by substantial evidence. Consolidated Edison Co. v. National Labor
Board, 305 U. S. 197. The findings were so supported.
The Board's order of reinstatement based upon the violation of §§ 8 (1) and (5) was in all respects proper. Respondent's whole course of illegal conduct was responsible
for the strike, and under such circumstances the normal
and proper means by which the status quo may be restored is the reinstatement of the strikers to positions of
employment.
That remedy is not beyond the power of the Board
in this case because of the attempted discharge of some
of the strikers for engaging in a "sit-down." The discharge did not remove those strikers from the class of
persons described as "employees" under § 10 (c). Plainly
the strikers here were within that category when the
strike took place; and since the Act specifies only one way
in which this statutory status may be ended-by equivalent employment elsewhere-it is reasonable to assume
that Congress intended that status to continue despite
an attempted discharge, at least for the remedial purposes of the Act. National Labor Relations Board v. Carlisle Lumber Co., 94 F. 2d 138; cert. den., 304 U. S. 575.
Once an unfair labor practice has occurred, the employer,
although free to terminate the normal incidents of the
employee relationship for cause, may not destroy the
power oi the Board to remedy his unfair labor practices,
so long as the remedy required will effectuate the purposes
of the Act.
Even if the reinstatement was not of "employees,"
nevertheless the order is valid. Section 10 (c) empowers
tie Board to require "such affirmative action, including
re'nstatenwnt of employees . . . as will effectuate the

policies of this Act."

The clause-"includina reinstate-

LABOR BOARD v. FANSTEEL CORP.
240

Argument for Petitioner.

ment of employees"-is clearly illustrative and not intended as a limitation. The use of the word "including"
and the reports in Congress each confirm what is but in
any event the normal construction-that the Board shall
have plenary power to remedy the effects of unfair labor
practices, including the power to require remployment of
former employees where that is required in order to effectuate the policies of the Act.
Nor was it an abuse of discretion for the Board to
conclude that reinstatement would effectuate the policies
of the Act. The Board could have effectually restored
the status quo and dissipated the effects of respondent's
unfair labor practices in no other way. Respondent can
not object to the reinstatement of the men on the ground
either that they had been guilty of misconduct or had
been discharged because by reinstatement of strikers in
each category it has itself shown that it regards neither
fact as a bar to reinstatement. Respondent was willing
to reinstate all the strikers who would surrender their
right to bargain through the Union. Hence, the Board's
order simply obliterates the distinction which respondent
itself has drawn among strikers on the basis of their
willingness or unwillingness to abandon the Union.
Employee wrongdoing is a factor to be taken into consideration by the Board, but under the circumstances of
the present case it was not an abuse of discretion to order
reinstatement.
The order of the Board properly required offers of reinstatement to all the strikers, even though respondent
claimed that certain strikers were inefficient, and that it
had abolished some positions by reorganizing its plant.
Respondent, after complying with the order, may reduce
or reorganize its staff on any non-discriminatory basis.
The provision which requires back pay only from the
time when application for reinstatement is made by the
strikers and is refused by respondent is proper.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Argument for Respondent.

306 U. S.

The order properly requires respondent to bargain collectively with the Union upon request. VirginianRy. Co.
v. System Federation,300 U. S. 515. The evidence shows
that when the other provisions of the order are complied
with by the reinstatement of the strikers and the discharge of those first employed since the unfair labor practices, the Ui-ion will have a clear majority in the
appropriate unit. Even if the facts were not thus clear,
some such presumption would be necessary to make the
Act workable. National Labor Relations Board v. Remington-Rand, 94 F. 2d 862; cert. den., 304 U. S. 576.
The Board's finding that respondent dominated and
interfered with the formation and administration of the
Rare Metal Workers of America in violation of § 8 (2)
of the Act is supported by clear and convincing evidence.
On the basis of that violation, the Board properly ordered
respondent to cease and desist, and to withdraw recognition from that union.
Respondent was not deprived of due process of law
by the Board's rulings on its applications for certain subpoenas. Respondent, by its privilege of applying to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for leave to adduce additional
evidence under § 10 (e) and (f), was afforded a full remedy under the Act for any erroneous action of the Board.
Not having availed itself of that privilege, respondent has
no ground for complaint.
Mr. Max Swiren, -with whom Messrs. Benjamin V.
Becker and Sidney H. Block were on the brief, for
respondent.
Section 2 (3) of the Act defines "employee" to include
individuals who cease work by reason of a labor dispute
or an unfair labor practice. The Congressional intent
is that workers shall not lose their employee status by
striking. This section does not destroy the employer's
right to discharge striking employees for cause, nor does it,

LABOR BOARD v. FANSTEEL CORP.
240

Argument for Respondent.

conversely, confer upon striking employees immunity
from discharge for cause.
Section 10 (c) authorizes the Board to command "such
affirmative action, including the reinstatement of employees, with or without back pay, as will effectuate the
policies of this Act." Only employees may be ordered
reinstated. In asserting the power to require reinstatement of non-employees, the Board treats the phrase "inchiding the reinstatement of employees" as superfluous.
Tle specific definition of the reinstatement power qualifies and limits the general grant.
The constitutional protection of the employer's right
of discharge can be required to give way only to the extent that it collides with the employee's coequal right of
self-organization. The right of self-organization does not
embrace a license to seize the employer's plant. The lawless occupation of plants is not and could not constitutionally be safeguarded by the Act. Construed in the
light of the restraints imposed by the Fifth Amendment,
the Act clearly preserves the employer's right to discharge
employees for cause, whether they be at work or on strike,
and confers upon the Board no power to compel employment of former employees.
The reinstatement of discharged employees guilty of
the property destruction and lawlessness portrayed on this
record can not advance either the immediate objective
of collective bargaining or the ultimate end of industrial
peace. Spurning the legal remedies available under the
Act, including the pending proceeding before the Board,
the sit-down strikers took the law into their own hands.
The Board charges the employer with full responsibility
for that violence, vandalism and lawlessness thus undertaken as a means of self-redress. That is nothing more
than an approval of lynch law. The deliberate lawlessness disqualified the participants as suitable employees.
Respondent had ample grounds for its apprehension that

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Argument for Respondent.

306 U. S.

their reemployment would engender plant demoralization
and strife. Contrary to the Board's argument, no conditions as to union membership or collective bargaining
activity were imposed upon any persons re~mployed.
Respondent accepted applications for reemployment only
from those believed to have been coerced and intimidated
into remaining within the buildings. That action did
not, as to the remaining men, either vitiate their valid
discharge or qualify them as suitable employees. Their
reinstatement can not effectuate the policies of the Act.
The reinstatement of persons (1) whose jobs have been
abolished and (2) who are shown to hive been inefficient,
can not effectuate the policies of the Act. The Board
dealt with these two groups by directing respondent to
reinstate all of the persons involved and then to carry
out a new internal reorganization, discharging those for
whom there were no jobs or who were inefficient. Ordering the reinstatement of such persons would be productive
only of futile plant disorganization and constitutes an
abuse of discretion.
The back-pay provision of the order constitutes a penalty for seeking judicial review of the order. This is
particularly true with respect to persons whose jobs have
been abolished or who were shown to be inefficient. The
order recognizes that upon their reinstatement they may
be immediately discharged.
The court properly held that the elimination from the
rolls of the employees dismissed for cause had completely
dissipated any majority that Lodge 66 might have enjoyed. The Board is without power to order the recognition of Lodge 66 as the exclusive bargaining agency,
in the face of the fact that it no longer represents a
majority.
The record is wholly barren of any evidence to sustain
the finding of domination and interference respecting the
Rare Metal Workers of America, Local No. 1.

LABOR BOARD v. FANSTEEL CORP.
240

Opinion of the Court.

Not a single subpoena requested by the respondent was
granted before or during the eighteen-day hearing. Not
a single subpoena desired by the Board's attorney was
refused. This arbitrary and discriminatory refusal denied to the respondent the fair hearing required by the
Fifth Amendment.
IR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals set aside an order of the
National Labor Relations Board requiring respondent to
desist from labor practices found to be in violation of the
National Labor Relations Act and to offer reinstatement
to certain discharged employees with back pay. While
the other portions of the Board's order are under review,
the principal question presented relates to the authority
of the Board to require respondent to reinstate employees
who were discharged because of their unlawful conduct in
seizing respondent's property in what is called a "sitdown strike."
Respondent, Fansteel Metallurgical Corporation, is
engaged at North Chicago, Illinois, iii the manufacture
and sale of products made from rare metals. No question
is raised as to the intimate relation of its operations to
interstate commerce or the effect upon that commerce of
the unfair labor practices with which the corporation is
charged. The findings of the Board show that in the
summer of 1936 a group of employees organized Lodge 66
under the auspices of a committee of the Amalgamated
Association of Iron, Steel and Tin Workers of North
America; that respondent employed a "labor spy" to engage in espionage within the Union and his employment
was continued until about December 1., 1936; that on
September 10, 1936, respondent's superintendent was requested to meet with a committee of the Uuion and the
superintendent required that the committee should con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

sist only of employees of five years' standing; that a committee, so constituted, presented a contract relating to
working conditions; that the superintendent objected to
"closed-shop and check-off provisions" and announced
that it was respondent's policy to refuse recognition to
"outside" unions; that on September 21, 1936, the superintendent refused to confer with the committee in which
an "outside" organizer had been included; that meanwhile, and later, respondent's representatives sought to
have a "company union" set up, but the attempt proved
abortive; that from November, 1936, to January, 1937,
the superintendent required the president of the Union to
work in a room adjoining the superintendent's office with
the purpose of keeping him away from the other workers;
that while in September, 1936, the Union did not have a
majority of the production and maintenance employees,
an appropriate unit for collective bargaining, by February 17, 1937, 155 of respondent's 229 employees in that
unit had joined the Union and had designated it as their
collective bargaining representative; that on that date, a
committee of the Union met twice with the superintendent, who refused to bargain with the Union as to rates of
pay, hours and conditions of employment, the refusal
being upon the ground that respondent would not deal.
with an "outside" union.
Shortly after the second meeting in the afternoon of
February 17th the Union committee decided upon a "sitdown strike" by taking over and holding two of respondent's "key" buildings. These were thereupon occupied
by about 95 employees. Work stopped and the remainder of the plant also ceased operations. Employees
who did not desire to participate were permitted to leave,
and a number of Union members who were on the night
shift and did not arrive for work until after the seizure
(lid not join their fellow members inside the buildings.
At about six o'clock in the evening the superintendent,

LABOR BOARD v. FANSTEEL CORP
240

Opinion of the Court.

accompanied by police officials and respondent's counsel,
went to each of the buildings and demanded that the men
leave. They refused, and respondent's counsel "thereupon announced in loud tones that all the men in the
plant were discharged for the seizure and retention of the
buildings." The men continued to occupy the buildings
until February 26, 1937. Their fellow members brought
them food, blankets, stoves, cigarettes and other supplies.
On February 18th, respondent obtained from the state
court an injunction order requiring the men to surrender
the premises. The men refused to obey the order and
a writ of attachment for contempt was served on February 19th. Upon the men's refusal to submit, a pitched
battle ensued and the men successfully resisted the attempt by the sheriff to evict and arrest them. Efforts
at mediation on the part of the United States Department of Labor and the Governor of Illinois proved unavailing. On February 26th the sheriff with an increased
force of deputies made a further attempt and this time,
after another battle, the men were ousted and placed under arrest. Most of them were eventually fined and
given jail sentences for violating the injunction.
Respondent on regaining possession undertook to resume operations, and production gradually began. By
March 12th the restaffing was approximately complete.
A large number of the strikers, including many who had
participated in the occupation of the buildings, were individually solicited to return to work with back pay but
without recognition of the Union. Some accepted the
offer and were reinstated; others refused to return unless
there were union recognition and mass reinstatement,
and were still out at the time of the hearing before the
Board. New men were hired to fill the positions of those
remaining on strike.
Meanwhile the Union was not inactive. On March
3d and 5th there were requests, which respondent refused,

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

for meetings to consider the recognition of the Union for
collective bargaining. There was no collective request
for reinstatement of all the strikers. The position of
practically all the strikers who did not go back, and who
were named in the complaint filed with the Board, was
"that they were determined to stay out until the Union
reached a settlement with the respondent."
Early in April a labor organization known as Rare
Metal Workers of America, Local No. 1, was organized
among respondent's employees. There was a meeting in
one of respondent's buildings on April 15th, which was
attended by about 200 employees, and the balloting resulted in a vote of 185 to 15 in favor of the formation of
an "independent" organization. Another meeting was
held soon after for the election of officers. Respondent
accorded these efforts various forms of support. The
Board concluded that the Rare Metal Workers of America, Local No. 1, was the result of the respondent's "antiunion campaign" and that respondent had dominated
and interfered with its formation and administration.
Upon the basis of these findings and its conclusions of
law, the Board made its order directing respondent to desist from interfering with its employees in the exercise of
their right to self-organization and to bargain collectively
through representatives of their own choosing as guaranteed in § 7 of the Act; from dominating or interfering
with the formation or administration of the Rare Metal
Workers of America, Local No. 1, or any other labor organization of its employees or contributing support thereto; and from refusing to bargain collectively with the
Amalgamated Association of Iron, Steel and Tin Workers of North America, Lodge 66, as the exclusive representative of the enployees described. The Board also
ordered the following affirmative action which it was
found would "effectuate the policies" of the Act;-that
is, upon request, to bargain collectively with the Amal-

LABOR BOARD v. FANSTEEL CORP.
240

Opinion of the Court.

gamated Association as stated above; to offer, upon application, to the employees who went on strike on February 17, 1937, and thercafter, "immediate and full reinstatement to their former positions," with back pay, dismissing, if necessary, all persons hired since that date; to
withdraw all recognition from Rare Metal Workers of
America, Local No. 1, as a representative of the employees for the purpose of dealing with respondent as to
labor questions, and to "completely disestablish" that organization as such representative; and to post notices of
compliance. 5 N. L. R. B. 930.
The Board found that respondent had not engaged in
unfair labor practices by "discrimination in regard to hire
or tenure of employment" in order to "encourage or discourage membership in any labor organization," and accordingly the. complaint under § 8 (3) of the Act was dismissed. Id.
On respondent's petition, the Circuit Court of Appeals
set aside the Board's order, 98 F. 2d 375, and this Court
granted certiorari, 305 U. S. 590.
First. The unfair labor practices.-The Board concluded that by "the anti-union statements and actions"
of the superintendent on September 10, 1936, and September 21, 1936, by "the campaign to introduce into the
plant a company union," by "the isolation of the Union
president from contact with his fellow employees," and
by the employment and use of a "labor spy," respondent
had interfered with its employees, and restrained and
coerced them, in the exercise of their right to self-organization guaranteed in § 7 of the Act, and thus had engaged
in an unfair labor practice under § 8 (1) of the Act.
Owing to the fact that in September, 1936, the Union
did not have a majority of the employees in the appropriate unit, the Board held that it was precluded from
finding unfair labor practices in refusing to bargain collectively at that time, but the Board found that there

252

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

was such a refusal on February 17, 1937, when the Union
did have a majority of the employees in the appropriate
unit, and that this constituted a violation of § 8 (5).
These conclusions are supported by the findings of the
Board and the latter in this relation have substantial
support in the evidence.
Second. The discharge of the employees for illegal conduct in seizing and holding respondent's buildings.The Board does not now contend that there was not
a real discharge on February 17th when the men refused to surrender possession. The discharge was clearly
proved.
Nor is there any basis for dispute as to the caus,, of the
discharge. Representatives of respondent demand1ed
that the men leave, and on their refusal announced that
they were discharged "for the seizure and retention of
the buildings." The fact that it was a general announcement applicable to all the men in the plant who thus
refused to leave does not detract from the effect of the
discharge either in fact or in law.
Nor is it questioned that the seizure and retention of
respondent's property were unlawful. It was a highhanded proceeding without shadow of legal right. It
became the subject of denunciation by the state'court
under the state law, resulting in fines and jail sentences
for defiance of the court's order to vacate and in a final
decree for respondent as the complainant in the injunction suit.
This conduct on the part of the employees manifestly
gave good cause for their discharge unless the National
Labor Relations Act abrogates the right of the employer
to refuse to retain in his employ those who illegally take
and hold possession of his property.
Third. The authority of the Board to require the reinstatement of the employees thus discharged.-The contentions of the Board in substance are these: (1) That

LABOR BOARD v. FANSTEEL CORP.
240

Opinion of the Court.

the unfair labor practices of respondent led to the strike
and thus furnished ground for requiring the reinstatement of the strikers; (2) That under the terms of the
Act employees who go on strike because of an unfair
labor practice retain their status as employees and are to
be considered as such despite discharge for illegal conduct; (3) That the Board was entitled to order reinstatement or remployment in order to "effectuate the
policies" of the Act.
(1) For the unfair labor practices of respondent the Act
provided a remedy. Interference in the summer and fall
of 1936 with the right of self-organization could at once
have been the subject of complaint to the Board. The
same remedy was available to the employees when collective bargaining was refused on February 17, 1937.
But reprehensible as was that conduct of the respondent,
there is no ground for saying that it made respondent an
outlaw or deprived it of its legal rights to the possession
and protection of its property. The employees had the
right to strike but they had no license to commit acts
of violence or to seize their employer's plant. We may
put on one side the contested questions as to the circumstances and extent of injury to the plant and its contents
in the efforts of the men to resist eviction. The seizure
and holding of the buildings was itself a wrong apart
from any acts of sabotage. But in its legal aspect the
-ousting of the owner from lawful possession is not essentially different from an assault, upon the officers of an
employing company, or the seizure and conversion of its
goods, or the despoiling of its property or other unlawful
acts in order to force compliance with demands. To
justify such conduct because of the existence of a labor
dispute or of an unfair labor practice would be to put
a premium on resort to force instead of legal remedies and
to subvert the principles of law and order which lie at
the foundations of society.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

As respondent's unfair labor practices afforded no excuse for the seizure and holding of its buildings, respondent had its normal rights of redress. Those rights, in their
most obvious scope, included the right to discharge the
wrongdoers from its employ. To say that respondent
could resort to the state court to recover damages or to
procure punishment, but was powerless to discharge those
responsible for the unlawful seizure would be to create
an anomalous distinction for which there is no warrant
unless it can be found in the terms of the National Labor
Relations Act. We turn to the provisions which the
Board invokes.
(2) In construing the Act in National Labor Relations
Board v. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp., 301 U. S. 1, 45,
46, we said that it "does not interfere with the normal
exercise of the right of the employer to select its employees or to discharge them"; that the employer "may
not, under cover of that right, intimidate or coerce its
employees with respect to their self-organization and representation, and, on the other hand, the Board is not
entitled to make its authority a pretext for interference
with the right of discharge when that right is exercised
for other reasons than such intimidation and coercion."
See, also, Associated Press v. National Labor Relations
Board, 301 U. S. 103, 132. Compare Texas & New Orleans R. Co. v. Brotherhood, 281 U. S. 548, 571; Virgin ian Railway Co. v. System Federation No. 40, 300
U. S. 515, 559.
It is apparent under that construction of the Act that
had there been no strike, and employees had been guilty
of unlawful conduct in seizing or committing depredations
upon the property of their employer, that conduct would
have been good reason for discharge, as discharge on that
ground would not be for the purpose of intimidating or
coercing employees with respect to their right of selforganization or representation, or because of any lawful

LABOR BOARD v. FANSTEEL CORP.
240

Opinion of the Court.

union activity, but would rest upon an independent and
adequate basis.
But the Board, in exercising its authority under § 10 (c)
to reinstate "employees," insists that here the status of
the employees was continued, despite discharge for unlawful conduct, by virtue of the definition of the term
"employee" in § 2 (3). By that definition the term
includes
"any individual whose work has ceased as a consequence
of, or in connection with, any current labor dispute or
because of any unfair labor practice, and who has not obtained any other regular and substantially equivalent
employment, . . ."
We think that the argument misconstrues the statute.
We are unable to conclude that Congress intended to
compel employers to retain persons in their employ regardless of their unlawful conduct,-to invest those who
go on strike with an immunity from discharge for acts
of trespass or violence against the employer's property,
which they would not have enjoyed had they remained
at work. Apart from the question of the constitutional
validity of an enactment of that sort, it is enough to say
that such a legislative intention should be found in some
definite and unmistakable expression. We find no such
expression in the cited provision.
We think that the true purpose of Congress is reasonably clear. Congress was intent upon the protection of
the right of employees to self-organization and to the
selection of representatives of their own choosing for
collective bargaining without restraint or coercion. National Labor Relations Board v. Jones & Laughlin Steel
Corp., supra, p. 33. To assure that protection, the employer is not permitted to discharge his employees because of union activity or agitation for collective bargaining. Associated Press v. National Labor Relations Board,
supra. The conduct thus protected is lawful conduct.

256

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

Congress also recognized the right to strike,-that the employees could lawfully cease work at their own volition
because of the failure of the employer to meet their demands. Section 13 provides that nothing in the Act
"shall be construed so as to interfere with or impede or
diminish in any way the right to strike." But this recognition of "the right to strike" plainly contemplates a
lawful strike,-the exercise of the unquestioned right to
quit work. As we said in NationalLabor Relations Board
v. Mackay. Radio & Telegraph Co., 304 U. S. 333, 347.
"if men strike in connection with a current labor dispute
their action is not to be construed as a renunciation of
the employment relation and they remain employees for
the remedial purposes specified in the Act." There is thus
abundant opportunity for the operation of § 2 (3) without construing it as countenancing lawlessness or as intended to support employees in acts of violence against
the employer's property by making it impossible for the
employer to terminate the relation upon that independent
ground.
Here the strike was illegal in its inception and prosecution. As the Board found, it was initiated by the decision of the Union committee "to take over and hold two
of the respondent's 'key' buildings." It was pursuant to
that decision that the men occupied the buildings and the
work stopped. This was not the exercise of "the right to
strike" to which the Act referred. It was not a mere
quitting of work and statement of grievances in the exercise of pressure recognized as lawful. It was an illegal
seizure of the buildings in order to prevent their use by
the employer in a lawful manner and thus by acts of force
and violence to compel the employer to submit. When
the employees resorted to that sort of compulsion they
took a position outside the protection of the statute and
accepted the risk of the termination of their employment

LABOR BOARD v. FANSTEEL CORP.
240

Opinion of the Court.

upon grounds aside from the exercise of the legal rights
which the statute was designed to conserve.
(3) The. Board contends that its order is valid under
the terms of the Act "regardless of whether the men remained employees." The Board bases its contention on
the general authority, conferred by § 10 (c), to require
the employer to take such affirmative action as will
"effectuate the policies" of the Act. Such action, it is
argued, may embrace not only reinstatement of those
whose status as employees has been continued by virtue
of § 2 (3), but also a requirement of the "reemployment"
of those who have ceased to be employed.
The authority to require affirmative action to "effectuate the policies" of the Act is broad but it is not unlimited. It has the essential limitations which inhere in
the very policies of the Act which the Board invokes.
Thus in Consolidated Edison Co. v. National Labor Relations Board, 305 U. S. 197, we held that the authority
to order affirmative action did not go so far as to confer
a punitive jurisdiction enabling the Board to inflict upon
the employer any penalty it may choose because he is
engaged in unfair labor practices, even though the Board
is of the opinion that the policies of the Act may be effectuated by such an order. We held that the power to command affirmative action is remedial, not punitive, and is
to be exercised in aid of the Board's authority to restrain
violations and as a means of removing or avoiding the
consequences of violation where those consequences are
of a kind to thwart the purposes of the Act.
We repeat that the fundamental policy of the Act is
to safeguard the rights of self-organization and collective
bargaining, and thus by the promotion of industrial peace
to remove obstructions to the free flow of commerce as
defined in the Act. There is not a line in the statute to
warrant the conclusion that it is any part of the policies
133096"-

9--17

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

of the Act to encourage employees to resort to force and
violence in defiance of the law of the land. On the contrary, the purpose of the Act is to promote peaceful settlements of disputes by providing legal remedies for the
invasion of the employees' rights. Elections may be ordered to decide what representatives are desired by the
majority of employees in appropriate units as determined
by the Board. To secure the prevention of unfair labor
practices by employers, complaints may be filed and heard
and orders made. The affirmative action that is, authorized is to make these remedies effective in the redress of
the employees' rights, to assure them self-organization
and freedom in representation, not to license them to
commit tortious acts or to protect them from the appropriate consequences of unlawful conduct. We are of the
opinion that to provide for the reinstatement or reemployment of employees guilty of the acts which the Board
finds to have been committed in this instance would not
only not effectuate any policy of the Act but would directly tend to make abortive its plan for peaceable
procedure.
What we have said also meets the point that the question whether reinstatement or reiimployment would effectuate the policies of the Act is committed to th decision of the Board in the exercise of its discretion subject
only to the limitation that its action may not be "arbitrary, unreasonable or capricious." The Board recognizes
that in "many situations" reinstatement or reemployment
after discharge for illegal acts would not be proper, but
the Board insists that it was proper in this instance. For
the reasons we have given we disagree with that view.
We think that a clearer case could hardly be presented
and that, whatever discretion may be deemed to be committed to the Board, its limits were transcended by the
order under review.

LABOR BOARD v. FANSTEEL CORP.
240

Opinion of the Court.

The Board stresses the fact that, when respondent was
able to obtain possession of its buildings and to resume
operations, it offered re6mployment to many of the men
who had participated in the strike. The contention confuses what an employer may voluntarily and legally do in
the exercise of his right of selection and what the Board
is entitled to compel. In announcing the reopening respondent stated its belief that a large number of men who
had taken part in the seizure of the plant were compelled
to do so through coercion and intimidation and that appl.cations for reemployment from such men would receive
favorable consideration. The Board challenges the statement that respondent limited its rehiring to such applicants. The Board points to evide.nce showing that everyone who applied for reemployment during the period of
restaffing was taken back without condition except two
employees who were advanced in years and were not reinstated solely for that reason, and to the testimony of
the superintendent that at least thirty-seven were rehired
"who had been in the sit-down."
We find it unnecessary to consider in detail the respective contentions as to respondent's offer of reemployment,
for we think that its action did -not alter the unlawful
charact'er of the strike or respondent's rights in that aspect. The important point is that respondent stood absolved by the conduct of those engaged in the "sit-down"
from any duty to reemploy them, but respondent was
nevertheless free to consider the exigencies of its business
and to offer reemployment if it chose. In so doing it was
simply exercising its normal right to select its employees.
Fourth. The requirement of reinstatement of employees who aided and abetted those who seized and held the
buildings.-There is a group of fourteen persons in this
class who were not within the buildings and hence do nc,
appear to have been within the announcement of dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U.S.

charge, but who went on strike and fall within the order
for reinstatement. The IBoard made no separate findings
with respect to these particular persons and refers us to
the evidence to show their relation to the transactions
under review. This, however, sufficiently appears in the
stipulation of facts, to which the Board was a party,
naming in paragraph 12 these fourteen persons and describing their conduct as follows:
"All of the following men were employees of the company on February 17, 1937, but did not participate in
the seizure and retention of the building, but aided and
abetted the men within the said buildings 3 and 5 in the
retention of the said buildings by soliciting, procuring
and delivering of food, bedding, cigarettes, stoves, or
other supplies, or in some other manner, and thereby assisted the said men in buildings 3 and 5 to remain therein
contrary to the injunctional order and writ of injunction
heretofore mentioned; that all of the said men named
in this paragraph had actual knowledge of the issuance
of the said injunctional order and writ of injunction
ordering and directing the men in buildings 3 and 5 to
vacate the same, and that their activities in aiding and
abetting the men in buildings 3 and 5 were done with
a view to and for the purpose of assisting the said men
to remain in the said buildings after the issuance of the
said injunctional order and writ of injunction and with
knowledge thereof. None of the men named in this paragraph were discharged by the company on February 17,
1937, or thereafter, and none of these men were recalled
to work by the company upon the resumption of plant
operations shortly after February 26th, 1937:" (the
names follow).
It cannot be said that independently of the Act respondent was bound to reinstate those who had thus
aided and abetted the "sit-down" strikers in defying the
court's order. If it be assumed that by virtue of § 2 (3)

LABOR BOARD v. FANSTEEL CORP.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

they still had the status of "employees," that provision
did not automatically provide reinstatement. Whether
the Board could order it must turn on the application
of the provision empowering the Board to require "such
affirmative action, including reinstatement of employees"
as will "effectuate the policies" of the Act. We are thus
returned to the question already discussed and we think
that in that respect these aiders and abettors, likewise
guilty of unlawful conduct, are in no better case than the
"sit-down" strikers themselves. We find no ground for
concluding that there is any policy of the Act which
justifies the Board in ordering reinstatement in such
circumstances.
Fifth. There are nine other persons apparently embraced within the order of reinstatement as to which
respondent interposes special objections. As to seven,
respondent objects to the reinstatement upon the ground
that they were inefficient and that no showing of union
activity by any of them was made. As to two others,
respondent contends that they refused its request to return to work without any conditions and that their places
were accordingly filled.
With respect to these nine persons, and to a miscellaneous group of five others including three as to whom
the trial examiner recommended dismissal of the complaint, the Board has not supplied specific findings upon
the points in controversy to sustain its order.
We are of the opinion that the Circuit Court of Appeals did not err in setting aside the requirement of
reinstatement.
Sixth. The requirement that respondent shall bargain
collectively with Lodge 66 of the Amalgamated Association as the exclusive representative of the employees in
the described unit.
Respondent resumed work about March 12, 1937. The
Board's order was made on March 14, 1938. In view of

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

the change in the situation by reason of the valid discharge of the "sit-down" strikers and the filling of positions with new men, we see no basis for a conclusion
that after the resumption of work Lodge 66 was the choice
of a majority of respondent's employees for the purpose
of collective bargaining. The Board's order properly requires respondent to desist from interfering in any manner with its employees in the exercise of their right to
self-organization and to bargain collectively through representatives of their own choosing. But it is a different
matter to require respondent to treat Lodge 66 in the
altered circumstances as such a representative. If it is
contended that Lodge 66 is the choice of the employees,
the Board has abundant authority to settle the question
by requiring an election.
Seventh. The requirement that respondent shall withdraw all recognitionfrom Rare Metal Workers of America,
Local No. 1.
While respondent presents a strong protest, insisting
that Local No. 1 of the Rare Metal Workers was the
free choice of the employees after work was resumed, we
cannot say that there is not substantial evidence that
the formation of this organization was brought about
through promotion efforts of respondent contrary to the
provision of § 8 (2), and we think that the order of the
Board in this respect should be sustained. Whether Rare
Metal Workers of America, Local No. 1, or any other
organization, is the choice of the majority of the employees in the proper unit can be determined by proceedings
open to the Board.
The provisions of the Board's order contained in Paragraph 1, subdivisions (a) and (b), in Paragraph 2, subdivision (d), and in Paragraph 2, subdivisions (e) and
(f) so far as these refer to the first-mentioned provisions,
and the final Paragraph of the order dismissing the charge

LABOR BOARD v. FANSTEEL CORP.
240

Opinion of STONE, J.

under § 8 (3) of the Act, are sustained. The other provisions of the order are set aside.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is modified accordingly and as modified is affirmed.
Modified and Affirmed.
MIR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE STONE,

concurring in part.

I concur in so much of the Court's decision as holds
that the Board was without statutory authority to order
reinstatement of those employees who were discharged on
February 17, 1937. But I rest this conclusion solely on
the construction of § 2 (3) and § 10 (c) of the National
Labor Relations Act. By § 10 (c) the Board is given
authority to reinstate in their employment only those
who are "employees." Before the Board made its order,
respondent's employees, by reason of their lawful discharge for cause, had lost their status as such, which
would otherwise have been preserved to them under
§ 2 (3).
The National Labor Relations Act, as its purpose and
scope are disclosed by its preamble and operative provisions and explained by the reports of the Congressional
committees recommending its enactment, Report No. 573,
Senate Committee on Education and Labor, 74th Cong.,
1st Sess.; Report No. 1147, House Committee on Labor,
74th Cong., 1st Sess., is aimed at securing the peaceable
settlement of labor disputes by the prevention of unfair
labor practices of the employer and by requiring him to
bargain collectively with his employees. Since one
means adopted by the Act to secure this end is the reinstatement, by the discretionary action of the National
Labor Relations Board, of employees when unfair labor

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of STOND, J.

306 U. S.

practices have caused them to cease work, it was necessary to provide that they should not lose their status as
employees by reason of that fact. This was accomplished by § 2 (3), which provides:
"The term 'employee' shall include . . . any individual
whose work has ceased as a consequence of, or in connection with, any current labor dispute or because of any
unfair labor practice. .. ."
Having in mind the purposes of the Act and the end
sought by the enactment of this section, I think its fair
meaning is that attributed to it by the Senate Committee
Report, supra, pp. 6-7, which declared:
"The bill thus observes the principle that men do not
lose their right to be considered as employees for the
purposes of this bill merely by collectively refraining
from work during the course of a labor controversy ...
And to hold that a worker who because of an unfair labor
practice has been discharged or locked out or gone on
strike is no longer an employee, would be to give legal
sanction to an illegal act and to deny redress to the
individual injured thereby."
But it does not follow because the section preserves
this right to employees where they have ceased work by
reason of a labor dispute or unfair labor practice, that
its language is to be read as depriving the employer of
his right, which the statute does not purport to withdraw,
to terminate the employer-employee relationship for reasons dissociated with the stoppage of work because of
unfair labor practices. The language which saves the
employee status for those who have ceased work because of unfair labor practices does not embrace also
those who have lost their status for a wholly different
reason-their discharge for unlawful practices which the
Act does not countenance.

LABOR BOARD v. FANSTEEL CORP
240

Opinion of

REED,

J.

There is nothing in the Act, read as a whole, to indicate such a purpose, and there is no language in § 2 (3)
directed to such an end. I cannot attribute to Congress
in the adoption of § 2 (3), explained as it was in the
Senate Committee Report, a purpose to cut off the right
of an employer to discharge employees who have destroyed his factory and to refuse to reemploy them, if
that is the real reason for his action. If a plainer indication of such a purpose had been given by the language
of § 2 (3), I should have thought it of sufficiently dubious
constitutionality to require us to construe its language
otherwise, if that could reasonably be done, leaving it to
Congress to say so, in unmistakable language, if it really
meant to impose that duty on the employer.
As to the fourteen employees who aided and abetted
the sit-down strike, but who were not discharged, I think
they retained their status under § 2 (3), and that the
Board had power to reinstate them. Whether that power
should be exercised was a matter committed to the
Board's discretion, not ours.
In other respects I concur with the decision of the
Court.
MR. JUSTICE

REED,

dissenting in part.

This Court agrees with the conclusion of the Labor
Board that the respondent was guilty of unfair labor
practices, prior to the strike, in campaigning for a company union, isolating the union president, making,
through its superintendent, anti-union statements, and
employing a labor spy. It also accepts the Board's conclusion that there was further pre-strike violation by
respondent of the Labor Relations Act by refusal to bargain collectively. None questions the power of the Board
to reinstate striking employees as a means of redress
for unfair labor practices. The issue while important

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of

REED,

J.

306 U. S.

is narrow. Can an employee, on strike or let out by an
unfair labor practice, be discharged, finally, by an employer so as to be ineligible for reinstatement under the
act?
The issue so stated glows feebly apart from the fire
of controversy. But it may permit a more objective
appraisal than to examine it when illustrated by conduct
on the part of the employees which is thought to put "a
premium on resort to force" and to subvert "the principles of law and order which lie at the foundations of
society." None on either si'de of the disputed issue need
be suspected of "countenancing lawlessness," or of encouraging employees to resort to "violence in defiance of
the law of the land." Disapproval of a sit-down does not
logically compel the acceptance of the theory that an
employer has the power to bar his striking employee from
the protection of the Labor Act.
The Labor Act was enacted in an effort to protect
interstate commerce from the interruptions of labor disputes. This object was sought through prohibition of
certain practices deemed unfair to labor, and the sanctions adopted to enforce the prohibitions included reinstatement of employees. To assure that the status of
strikers was not changed from employees to individuals
beyond the protection of the act, the term employee was
defined to include "any individual whose work has ceased
as a consequence of, or in connection with, any current
labor dispute or because of any unfair labor practice . . ."
§ 2 (3), Act of July 5, 1935. Without this assurance of
the continued protection of the act, the striking employee
would be quickly put beyond the pale of its protection
by discharge. As now construed by the Court, the emr ,)yer may discharge any striker, with or without cause,
so long as the discharge is not used to interfere with
self-organization or collective bargaining. Friction easily
enge.uered by labor strife may readily give rise to con-

LABOR BOARD v. FANSTEEL CORP.
240

Opinion of

REED,

J.

duct, from nose-thumbing to sabotage, which will give
fair occasion for discharge on grounds other than those
prohibited by the Labor Act.
The Congress sought by clear language to eliminate
this prolific source of ill feeling by the provision just
quoted which should be interpreted in accordance with
its language as continuing the eligibility of a striker for
reinstatement regardless of conduct by the striker or action
by the employer. The constitutional problem involved
in such a conclusion is not different from the one involved in compelling an employer to reinstate an employee, discharged for union activity. There is here no
protection for unlawful activity. Every punishment
which compelled obedience to law still remains in the
hands of the peace officers. It is only that the act of ceasing work in a current labor dispute involving unfair labor
practices suspends for a period, not now necessary to determine, the right of an employer to terminate the relation. The interference with the normal exercise of the
right to discharge extends only to the necessity of protecting the relationship in industrial strife.
The point is made that an employer should not be
compelled to re6mploy an employee guilty, perhaps, of
sabotage. This depends upon circumstances. It is the
function of the Board to weigh the charges and countercharges and determine the adjustment most conducive to
industrial peace. Courts certainly should not interfere
with the normal action of administrative bodies in such
circumstances. Here both labor and management had
erred grievously in their respective conduct. It cannot
be said to be unreasonable to restore both to their former
status. Such restoration would apply to the sit-down
strikers and those striking employees who aided and
abetted them.
I am of the view that the provisions of the order of
the Board ordering an offer of reinstatement to the em-

268

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

306 U. S.

ployees discussed above 'should be sustained. As the remainder of the order is affected by the determination upon
this issue but not wholly controlled by the conclusions,
no opinion is expressed a to the other requirements of
the order:.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK concurs

in this dissent.

EICHHOLZ v. PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION OF
MISSOURI ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 367. Argued February 1, 1939.-Decided February 27, 1939.
1. Under Judicial Code § 266, that part of a decree of the threejudge District Court which denied a permanent injunction is reviewable directly by this Court independently of other provisions of the
decree, not final, concerning a counterclaim. P. 269.
2. Mere pendency before the Interstate Commerce Commission of
an application under the Federal Motor Carrier Act to operate as
a motor carrier in interstate commerce does not supersede the
authority of a State to enforce reasonable regulations of traffic upon
its highways with respect to such applicant. P. 273.
3. For the effectuation of its laws requiring common carriers by
motor to obtain certificates of public convenience and necessity
before operating intrastate, a State may forbid intrastate business
by carriers who have not such certificates but have permits from
the State for use of its highways in interstate 'commerce only; and
where an interstate carrier evades the prohibition by carrying goods
from wkhin the State to a place near to and beyond its boundary
and then carrying them back for delivery in the State near the
boundary, the State may revoke his permit. P. 273.
In the absence of the exercise of federal authority, and in the
-light of local exigencies, the State is free to act in order to protect
its legitimate interests even though interstate commerce is directly
affected.
23 F. Supp. 587, affirmed.

