HONEYNMAN v. JACOBS.
535

Statement of the Case.

South Dakota, 278 U. S. 429, 433; United States Mortgage
Co. v. Matthews, 293 U. S. 232, 236), we attach great
weight to the views of the highest court of the State.
Cocmbes v. Getz, 285 U. S. 434, 441; Phelps v. Board of
Education, supra; Dodge v. Board of Education, supra.
In this instance we find no reason for disagreeing with
the conclusion reached by the Supreme Court of Louisiana. The Act providing for appellant's "employment"
did not change the nature of the'duties which he had been
performing as Commissioner. Instead of acting as Commissioner he rendered the same service as Superintendent
of Public Parks and Streets under the control of the
Mayor. His duties still distinctly pertained to the performance of the ordinary governmental functions of the
City in the supervision of its streets and parks and his
position as Superintendent both with respect to duties
and tenure may properly be regarded as subject to the
control of the legislature and of the Commission Council
acting under its authority.
The judgment is

Affirmed.

HONEYMAN v. JACOBS

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 465.

Submitted February 10, 1939.--Decided April 17, 1939.

A state law providing that a mortgagee who has bid in the property
at foreclosure sale shall have no deficiency judgment if the value
of the property equals the amount of the debt and interest plus
costs and expenses, does not impair the obligations of preexisting
mortgage contracts within the intendment of the contract clause
of the Constitution. Richmond Mortgage Corp. v. Wachovia
Bank, 300 U. S. 124, 128. P. 545.
278 N. Y. 467; 17 N. E' 2d 131, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment affirming a judgment which
confirmed a foreclosure sale to the appellant as mort-

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

gagee-purchaser but overruled his motion for a deficiency
judgment.
Mr. Robert B. Honeyman submitted for appellant.
Messrs. John J. Bennett, Jr., Attorney General of New
York, Henry Epstein, Solicitor General, and John F. X.
McGohey and Benjamin Hefiner, Assistant Attorneys

General, submitted for appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This case, coming here on appeal from the state court,
presents the question of the validity under the contract
clause of the Federal Constitution of ยง 1083a of the Civil
Practice Act of New York (Chapter 794 of the Laws of
1933)1 under which the appellant, a mortgagee of real
' Section 1083-a, provides:
"1083-a. Limitation Upon Deficiency Judgments During Emergency Period.-No judgment shall be granted for any residue of the
debt remaining unsatisfied as prescribed by the preceding section
where the mortgaged property shall be sold during the emergency,
except as herein provided. Simultaneously with the making of a
motion for an order confirming the sale or in any event withil ninety
days after the date of the sale, the party to whom such residue
shall be owing may make a motion in the action for leave to enter
a deficiency judgment upon notice to the party against whom such
judgment is sought or the attorney who shall have appeared for such
party in such action. Such notice shall be served personally or in
such other manner as the court may direct. Upon such motion the
court, whether or not the respondent appears, shall determine, upon
affidavit or otherwise as it shall direct, the fair and reasonable market value of the mortgaged premises as of the date of sale or such
nearest earlier date as there shall have been any market value thereof
and shall make an order directing the entry of a deficiency judgment.
Such deficiency judgment shall be for an amount equal to the sum
of the amount owing by the party liable as determined by the judgment with interest, plus the amount owing on all pnor liens and encumbrances with interest, plus costs and disbursements of the ac-

HONEYMAN v. JACOBS.
539

Opinion of the Court.

property, was denied a deficiency judgment in a foreclosure suit, where the state court found that the value of the
property purchased by the mortgagee at the foreclosure
sale was equal to the debt secured by the mortgage.
The mortgage was executed in February, 1928, that is,
prior to the legislation in question, to secure a bond for
$15,000, with interest, payable in February, 1931. On
default in payment, appellant, the holder of the bond
and mortgage, brought suit for foreclosure and judgment
for foreclosure and sale was entered in April, 1938. The
property was then sold to appellant for the sum of $7500.
In the referee's report of sale the amount due on the bond
and mortgage was stated to be $15,771.17, and the taxes,
fees and expenses amounted to $1319.03, leaving .a deficiency of $9590.20.
Section 1083--a of the Civil Practice Act required that
the right to a deficiency judgment should be determined
in the foreclosure suit. Honeyman v. Hanan, 275 N. Y.
382; 9 N. E. 2d 970; 302 U. S. 375, 378. Accordingly,
appellant made his motion in that suit to confirm the sale
and for deficiency judgment. Proof was submitted to the
court that the present value of the property was $25,318.
It does not appear that the correctness of this valuation
was contested. The court thereupon confirmed the sale
and denied the motion for deficiency judgment upon the
ground "that the value of the property is equal to the
debt of the plaintiff."
Appellant's contention that
ยง 1083-a as thus applied violated the contract clause 'of
the Constitution was overruled and this ruling was sustion including the referee's fee and disbursements, less the market
value as determined by the court or the sale price of the property
whichever shall be the higher. If no motion for a deficiency judgment shall be made as herein prescribed the proceeds of the sale
regardless of amount shall be deemed to be in full satisfaction of the
mortgage debt and no right to recover any deficiency in any action
or proceeding shall exist."

542

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of- the Court.

306 U. S.

tained by the Court of Appeals. 278 N. Y. 467; 17 N. E.
2d 131. The court followed its earlier decisions, citing
Honeyman v. Hanan, 275 N. Y. 382; 9 N. E. 2d 970;
Klinke v. Samuels, 264 N. Y.. 144; 190 N. E. 324; City
Bank Farmers Trust Co. v. Ardlea Corporation,267 N. Y.
224; 196 N. E. 34.
Appellant invokes the principle that the obligation of
a contract is impaired by subsequent legislation which
under the form of modifying the remedy impairs substantial rights. See Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. 122,
200; Von Hoffman v. City of Quincy, 4 Wall. 535, 553,
554; Antoni v. Greenhow, 107 U. S. 769, 775; Home
Building & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290 U. S. 398, 430,
434, and cases cited, note 13; W. B. Worthen Co. v.
Thomas, 292 U. S. 426, 433; W. B. Worthen Co. v. Kavanaugh, 295 U. S. 56, 60. As we said in Richmond Mortgage Corp. v. Wachovia Bank, 300 U. S. 124, 128, "The
legislature may modify, limit or alter the remedy for enforcement of a contract without impairing its obligation,
but in so doing, it may not deny all remedy or so circumscribe the existing remedy with conditions and restrictions
as seriously to impair the value of the right."
We have heretofore decided that the requirement of
ยง 1083-a that the right to a deficiency judgment' must
be determined in the foreclosure suit raises no substantial question under the contract clause. Honeyman
v. Hanan, 302 U. S. at p. 378. The question is whether
in the instant case the denial of a deficiency judgment
substantially impaired appellant's contract right. The
bond provided for the payment to him of $15,000 with
the stipulated interest. The mortgage was executed to
secure payment of that indebtedness. The contract contemplated that the mortgagee should make himself whole,
if necessary, out of the security but not that he should be
enriched at the expense of the debtor or realize more than
what would repay the debt with the costs and expenses

HONEYMAN v. JACOBS.
539

Opinion of the Court.

of the suit. Having a total debt of $15,771.17, with expenses, etc., of $1319.03, appellant has obtained through
his foreclosure suit the property of the debtor found without question to be worth over $25,000. He has that in
hand. We know of no principle which entitles him to
receive anything more. Assuming that the statute before
its amendment permitted a recovery of an additional

amount through a so-called deficiency judgment, we cannot say that there was any constitutional sanction for

such a provision which precluded the legislature from
changing it so as to confine the creditor to securing the
satisfaction of his entire debt.
Section 1083-a in substance assured to the court the
exercise of its appropriate equitable powers. By the
normal exercise of these powers, a court of equity in a
foreclosure suit would have full authority to fix the terms
and time of the foreclosure sale and to refuse to confirm

sales upon equitable grounds where they were found to
be unfair or the price bid was inadequate. Home Building & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, supra, at pp. 446, 447, and
cases cited, note 18. Richmond Mortgage Corp. v. Wa,.
chovia Bank, supra, at p. 129. In this control over the
foreclosure sale under its decree, the court could consider
and determine the value of the property sold to the mortgagee and what the mortgagee would thus realize upon
the mortgage debt if the sale were confirmed. See Monaghan v. May, 242 App. Div. 64, 67; 273 N. Y. S. 475;
Guaranteed Title & Mortgage Co. v. Scheffres, 247 App.
Div. 294; 285 N. Y. S. 464.
The reasoning of this Court in Richmond Mortgage
Corp. v. Wachovia Bank, supra, is applicable and governs
our decision. There, a statute of North Carolina, enacted after the execution of notes secured by a deed of
trust, provided that where a mortgagee caused the sale
of mortgaged property by a trustee and, becoming the
purchaser for a sum less than the amount of the debt,

544

OCTOBER TERM, 1938,
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

thereafter brought an action for a deficiency, the defendant was entitled to show, by way of defense and set-off,
that the property sold was fairly worth the amount of the
debt or that the sum bid was substantially less than the
true value of the property, and thus defeat the claim in
whole or in part. Under the former law of that State,
when the mortgagee became the purchaser at the trustee's
sale under a power in the deed of trust, he might thereafter in an action at law recover the difference between
the price he had bid and the amount of the indebtedness.
We found that the other remedy by bill in equity to foreclose the mortgage was still available. And that in such
a proceeding the chancellor could set aside the sale if the
price bid was inadequate, and, in addition, he might
award a money decree for the amount by which the avails
of the sale fell below the amount of the indebtedness but
that "his decree in that behalf would be governed by
well-understood principles of equity." The Court was of
the opinion that the statute modifying one of the existing
remedies for realizing the value of the security could not
"fairly be said to do more than restrict the mortgagee to
that for which he contracted, namely, payment in full."
The act recognized the obligation of his contract and his
right to its full enforcement but limited that right "so as
to prevent his obtaining more than his due. By the old
and well known remedy of foreclosure, a mortgagee was
so limited because of the chancellor's control of the proceeding." That "classical method" of realization upon a
mortgage security through a foreclosure suit had always
been understood "to be fair to both parties to the contract and to afford an adequate remedy to the mortgagee."
In that view it appeared that the new law as to proceedings for a deficiency judgment after the exercise of a
power of sale "merely restricted the exercise of the contractual remedy to provide a procedure which, to some
extent, renders the remedy by a trustee's sale consistent

CARRIER v. BRYANT.
539

Opinion of the Court.

with that in equity." And that did "not impair the obligation of the contract."
We reach a similar result here upon the same groundthat under the finding of the state court the mortgagee
has obtained satisfaction of his debt and that the denial
by the statute of a further recovery does not violate the
constitutional provision.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

CARRIER ET
CERTIORARI

No. 541.

AL.

v. BRYANT.

TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NORTH CAROLINA.

Argued March 27, 28, 1939.-Decided April 17, 1939.

Negotiable notes and United States bonds purchased, and held as
investments, for an incompetent World War veteran by his guardian out of "payments of benefits" made to him by the United
States under laws relating to such veterans, held not exempt under
ยง 3 of the Act of August 12, 1935 from execution upon a judgment
against the incompetent. P. 547.
214 N. C. 174; 198 S. E. 651, affirmed.

p. 622, to review the affirmance of a
decree dissolving an order which restrained respondent
from executing upon a judgment.
CERTIORARI, post,

Mr. John W. Wood for petitioners.
Mr. Frederick D. Hamrick, Jr., with whom Mr. Frdd-

erick D. Hamrick was on the brief, for respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Supreme Court, North Carolina, ruled that negotiable notes and United States bonds purchased, and held
as investments, for an incompetent World Wax veteran
133096'-39-----35

