OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

306 U. S.

union. The finding is sharply challenged but, as there is
evidence in support of it, we accept it. Based upon this
finding the Board contends this stipulation in connection
with the offer to hire the men was a violation of § 8 (3)
of the Act independent of any of the violations flowing
out of the discharge and refusal to re-employ the men
as a body. The contention is irrelevant to any issue in
the cause. The complaint alleges that the discharge of the
men constituted an unfair labor practice in violation of
§ 8 (1) and (3) and that the execution of the agreement
with the international association constituted an unfair
labor practice under § 8 (5). It nowhere refers to any
discrimination in hiring any man or men or charges any
violation in connection therewith.
The decree is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK and MR. JUSTICE REED dissent.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER took no part in the consid-

eration or decision of this case.
MILK CONTROL BOARD v. EISENBERG FARM
PRODUCTS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME

No. 426.

COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

Argued February 8, 1939.-Decided February 27, 1939.

A state statute regulating the milk industry, which requires dealers
to obtain licenses; to file bonds conditioned on payment of purchases from producers; and to pay producers at least the minimum
prices prescribed by an administrative agency,-held not violative
of the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution, as applied to a
dealer who, at a receiving station maintained by him within the
State, purchases milk from ne'ghboring farms, all of which he
ships to another State for sale. P. 352.
The obvious purpose of the Act was to control a domestic situation in the interest of the producers and consumers within the

MILK BOARD v. EISENBERG CO.
346

Argument for Petitioner.

State. Because of the comparatively small amount of the State's
total milk production which was exported, the effect of the Act on
interstate commerce was incidental. In the absence of regulation
by Congress, the Act did not constitute a prohibited burden on
interstate commerce.
332 Pa. 34; 200 A. 854, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 305 U. S. 589, to review the affirmance of
a decree dismissing a bill to enforce compliance with a
state milk control law.

Mr. Harry Polikoff, Deputy Attorney General of Pennsylvania, with whom Mr. Guy K. Bard, Attorney General,
was on the brief, for petitioner.
If the decision of the court below is the law of the land.
the stabilization of the milk industry of the United, States
by means of milk control legislation, and all commerce
in milk, will be greatly hindered. At least twenty States
(practically all the dairy states) today have upon their
statute books legislation of the kind that is involved in
this case. Milk dealers in any State may evade all regulation by simply purchasing their milk at plants which
they erect in other States, thus creating an area without
law, to the detriment of dairy farmers. other dealers and
the consuming public.
It is a matter of common knowledge that milk dealers
with no assets in the State, buy their milk on credit; if
required to post neither license nor bond they would
indeed have the farmers "at their mercy." Rohrer v.
Milk Control Board, 322 Pa. 257, 265.
Only a small amount of the milk produced in Pennsylvania is shipped to other States; yet it is common knowledge that the malpractices of a minority can disrupt an
entire'industry. It is impossible to maintain fair dealings in an industry within a State for the benefit of the
inhabitants of the State, if here and there a milk dealer
can create an area without law merely because he ulti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1938
Amicus Curiae.

306 U. S.

mately resells the milk in some other State. (No attempt has been made to apply the present statute to any
resales by the defendant.)
Mr. Thomas D. Caldwell for respondent.
A State can not, under the guise of stabilizing the milk
industry, directly burden or regulate milk shipped in
interstate commerce. Lemke v. Farmers Grain Co., 258
U. S. 50.
The cost of the milk to respondent will be increased
by the premium on the bond, by the license fee, and by
the increase in price ordered by the Commission. The
effect of such regulation and such price fixing would be
exactly equivalent to the imposition of a tax on the export of milk.
The statute may not be interpreted as an inspection
law, in view of the separate and distinct inspection laws
passed by the Commonwealth.
The license and bond requirements would, in the language of Baldwin v. Seelig, 294 U. S. 511, indirectly regulate the prices to be paid to producers of commodities
in interstate commerce. Since the buying as well as the
shipping of milk from Pennsylvania to New York constitutes interstate commerce, the Commonwealth can not
regulate incidents pertaining to the buying of milk in
Pennsylvania, as it, by indirection, would affect the entire
transaction. See Pennsylvania Railroad Co. v. Clark
Coal Co., 238 U. S. 456; Talbot v. Smith, 277 S. W. 257;
Community Natural Gas Co. v. Royse City, 7 F. Supp.
481.
By leave of Court, Messrs. John J. Bennett, Jr., Attorney General of New York, Henry Epstein, Solicitor
General, Milo R. Kniffen, and Robert G. Blabey filed a
brief on behalf of the Commissioner of Agriculture and
Markets of the State of New York, as amicus curiae, in
support of petitioner.

MILK BOARD v. EISENBERG (20.
346

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
We are called upon to determine whether a local police
regulation unconstitutionally regulates or burdens interstate commerce.
Pennsylvania, by an Act of April 30, 1935 1 has declared
the milk industry in that Commonwealth to be a business

affected with a public interest. The statute defines a milk
dealer as any person "who purchases or handles milk
within the Commonwealth for- sale, shipment, storage,
processing or manufacture within or without the Commonwealth." It creates a Milk Control Board with authority to investigate, supervise, and regulate the industry and imposes penalties for violations of the law or of
the Board's orders issued pursuant to the law, and requires a dealer to obtain a license by application to the
Board. Licenses may be refused, suspended, or revoked
for specified causes. A requisite of obtaining a license is
that the dealer shall file with the Board a bond conditioned for the prompt payment of all amounts due to
producers for milk purchased by the licensee. The act
empowers the Board to require the dealer to keep certain
records and directs the Board, with the approval of the
Governor, to "fix, by official order, the minimum prices to
be paid by milk dealers to producers and others for milk."
The Board may vary the price according to the production, use, form, grade or class of milk.The petitioner, the Milk Control Board, filed its bill
in a Common Pleas Court to restrain the appellee from
continuing to do business without complying with the
statute. The responrl'iut by its answer sought to justify
1

P. L. 96; 31 P.S. § 664.
2 The act was repealed by an Act of April 28, 1937, P. L. 417, but
all proceedings under it were saved by § 1203 of the later act. See
Commonwealth v. Ortwein, 132 Pa. Superior Ct. 166; 200 Atl. 859.

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

failure to comply on the ground that it was engaged in
interstate commerce. After trial the court dismissed
the bill. The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania affirmed
the decree.'
The respondent, a Pennsylvania corporation, leases and
operates a milk receiving plant in Elizabethville, Pennsylvania, at which it buys milk from approximately one
hundred and seventy-five farmers in the neighborhood,
who bring their milk to the plant in their own cans.
There the milk is weighed and tested by the respondent
and emptied into large receivinj tanks in which it is
cooled preparatory to shipment. This requires retention
of the milk for less than twenty-four hours; it is not
processed, and no change occurs in its constituent elements. The milk is then drawn from the cooling tanks
into tank trucks operated by a contract carrier and transported into New York City for sale there by the respondent. The journey is continuous from Elizabethville to
New York City. All milk purchased by the respondent
at Elizabethville is shipped to and sold in New York.
During the year 1934 approximately 4,500,000,000 pounds
of milk were produced in Pennsylvania of which approximately 470,000,000 pounds were shipped out of the
state.
The respondent contends that the act, if construed to
require it to obtain a license, to file a bond for the protection of producers, and to pay the farmers the prices prescribed by the Board, unconstitutionally regulates and
burdens interstate commerce. The State Supreme Court
has held that the statute is a valid police regulation.'
The petitioner concedes that the purchase, shipment into
'332 Pa. 34; 200 Ati. 854.
'See the opinion below, and Colteryahn Sanitary Dairy v. Milk
Control Conm'n, 332 Pa. 15; 1 Atl. 2d, 775; Keystone Dairy Co. v.
Milk Control Comm'n, 332 Pa. 15; 1 At. 2d 775; Rohrer v. Milk
Control Board, 322 Pa. 257; 186 AtI. 336.

MILK BOARD v. EISENBERG CO.
346

Opinion of the Court.

another state, and sale there of the milk in which the respondent deals is interstate commerce. The question for
decision is whether, in the absence of federal regulation,
the enforcement of the statute is prohibited by Article I,
§ 8 of the Constitution. We hold that it is not.
When the people declared "The Congress shall have
Power . . . To regulate Commerce . . . among the several States, . . ." their purpose was clear. The United
States could not exist as a nation if each of them were to
have the power to forbid imports from another state, to
sanction the rights of citizens to transport their goods
interstate, or to discriminate as between neighboring
states in admitting articles produced therein. The grant
of the power of regulation to the Congress necessarily implies the subordinationi of the states to that power. This
court has repeatedly declared that the grant established
the immunity of interstate commerce from the control of
the states respecting all those subjects embraced within
the grant which are of such a nature as to demand that,
if regulated at all, their regulation must be prescribed by
a single authority.' But in matters requiring diversity of
treatment according to the special requirements of local
conditions, the states remain free to act within their respective jurisdictions until Congress sees fit to act in the
exercise of its overriding authority.' One of the commonest forms of state action is the exercise of the police
power directed to the control of local conditions and exerted in the interest of the welfare of the state's citizens.
Every state police statute necessarily will affect interstate commerce in some degree, but such a statute does
not run counter to the grant of Congressional power
merely because it incidentally or indirectly involves or
burdens interstate commerce. This is so even though,
'Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 399, and cases cited.
'Ibid.

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

should Congress determine to exercise its paramount
power, the state law might thereby be restricted in operation or rendered unenforceable." These principles have
guided judicial decision for more than a century. Clearly
they not only are inevitable corollaries of the constitutio'nal provision, but their unimpaired enforcement is of
the highest importance to the continued existence of our
dual form of government. The difficulty arises not in their
statement or in a ready assent to their propriety, but in
their application in connection with the myriad variations
in the methods and incidents of commercial intercourse.
The purpose of the statute under review obviously is
to reach a domestic situation in the interest of the welfare
of the producers and consumers of milk in Pennsylvania.
Its provisions with respect to license, bond, and regulation of prices to be paid to producers are appropriate
means ,to the ends in view. The question is whether the
prescription of prices to be paid producers in the effort to
accomplish these ends constitutes a prohibited burden on
interstate commerce, or an incidental burden which *is
permissible until superseded by Congressional enactment.
That question can be answered only by weighing 'the nature of the respondent's activities, and the propriety of
local regulation of them, as disclosed by the record.
The respondent maintains a receiving station in Pennsylvania where it conducts the local business of buying
milk. At that station the neighboring farmers deliver
their milk. The activity affected by the regulation is essentially local in Pennsylvania. Upon the completion of
that transaction the respondent engages in conserving and
transporting its own property. The Commonwealth does
not essay to regulate or to restrain the shipment of the
respondent's milk into. New York or to regulate its sale
or the price at which respondent may sell it in New York.
'Ibid., pp. 402-403.

MILK BOARD v. EISENBERG CO.
34

Opinion of the Court.

If dealers conducting receiving stations, in various localities in Pennsylvania were free to ignore the requirements
of the statute on the ground that all or a part of the milk
they purchase is destined to another state the uniform
operation of the statute locally would be crippled and
might be impracticable. Only a small fraction of the milk
produced by farmers in Pennsylvania is shipped out of
the Commonwealth. There is, therefore, a comparatively
large field remotely affecting and wholly unrelated to interstate commerce within which the statute operates.
These considerations we think justify the conclusion that
the effect of the law on interstate commerce is incidental
and not forbidden by the Constitution, in the absence of
regulation by Congress.
None of the decisions on which the court below and
the respondent rely rules the instant case. DiSanto v.
Pennsylvania,273 U. S. 34, involved a state law directed
solely at foreign commerce Lemke v. Farmers Grain Co.,
258 U. S. 50, condemned a state statute affecting commerce, over ninety per cent. of which was interstate and
essaying to regulate the price of commodities sold within
the state payable and receivable in the state of destination; Shafer v. Farmers Grain Co., 268 U. S. 189, also
dealt with a state law intended to regulate commerce
almost wholly interstate in character. In Baldwin v.
Seelig, 294 U. S. 511, this court condemned an enactment aimed solely at interstate commerce attempting to
affect and regulate the price to be paid for milk in a
sister state, and we indicated that the attempt amounted
in effect to a tariff barrier set up against milk imported
into the enacting state.
The decree must be reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this
opinion.
Reversed.
[Over.]

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
306 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

and MR.

JUSTICE BUTLER

are of opinion that the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania
properly concluded that under former opinions of this
Court the questioned regulations constituted a burden
upon interstate commerce prohibited by the Federal
Constitution.
PIERRE v. LOUISIANA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 142.

Argued February 3, 6, 1939.-Decided February 27, 1939.

1. When the jury commissioners of a state court intentionally and
systematically exclude negroes from among the persons summoned
and listed for jury service, an indictment for murder, returned
against a negro by a grand jury drawn or selected from such lists,
is void under the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 357.
2. In determining whether, as matter of fact, such discrimination existed in this case, the findings and conclusions of the State Supreme
Court, though entitled to great respect, are not binding on this
Court. P. 358.
189 La. 764; 180 So. 630, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

ing

305 U. S. 586, to review a judgment affirm-

a sentence of death.

Mr. Maurice R. Woulfe for petitioner.
Mr. John E. Fleury, with whom Messrs. Gaston L.
Porterie, Attorney General of Louisiana, James O'Connor,
Assistant Attorney General, and Ernest M. Conzelmann
were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.

Indicted for murder, petitioner, a member of the negro
race, was convicted and sentenced to death in a state
court of the Parish of St. John the Baptist, Louisiana.

