62

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
306 U. S.

Syllabus.

petitioners but as Congress had adequate power to authorize it and has used language adequate thereto we
can find here no sufficient basis for an injunction.
Upon the ground and for the reasons herein stated
the decree of the District Court is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, concurring.

I concur in the affirmance of the decree of the District
Court. For reasons stated in the opinion of the Circuit
Court of Appeals,1 I believe that Court properly found
the District Court without jurisdiction.

FELT & TARRANT MANUFACTURING CO. v.

GALLAGHER

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN

No. 302.

Argued

DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

)ecember 13, 1938.-Decided January 30, 1939.

An Illinois corporation, not qualified to do local business' in California, solicited orders for its goods from California purchasers,
through agents for whom it hired offices in that State, and who
took the orders subject to the vendor's approval. Goods sold
were sent by the vendor from outside of California directly to the
purchasers or to the agents for distribution to them. Prices were
paid to the vendor directly, in Illinois. Held that California
constitutionally may apply to such nonresident corporation the
provision of its Use Tax Act requiring retailers maintaining a
place of business in the State, and making sales of tangible personal property for storage, use or other consumption therein, to
collect from the purchasers the taxes imposed. P. 64.
The Act, so applied, ii consistent with the commerce clause,
and with the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
23 F. Supp. 186, affirmed.
1101 F. 2d 426.

FELT & TARRANT CO. v. GALLAGHER.
62

63

Counsel for Parties.

APPEAL from a District Court of three judges dismissing a bill to enjoin appellees from enforcing a tax Act.

Mr. A. Calder Mackay, with whom Mr. Thomas R.
Dempsey was on the brief, for appellant.
The three cases upon which the lower court relied as
authority for the denial of the injunctive relief sought
by the appellant, Henneford v. Silas Mason Co., 300
U. S. 577; Bowman v. Continental Oil Co., 256 U. S.
642; and Monamotor Oil Co. v. Johnson, 292 U. S. 86,
are not applicable to the case at bar.
In each of those cases the corporation subjected to the
tax was within the jurisdiction of the taxing state and
was transacting an intrastate business. The appellant,
an Illinois corporation, carried on no intrastate operations
in California and is not subject to its jurisdiction. Such
business as it transacts in California is interstate in
character.
California, therefore, lacks the power to require the
appellant (1) to act as the State's collecting agent with
respect to use tax which may become due from California
storers, users or consumers; or (2) to insure payment of
such tax if it fails to make collection from the tax debtors;
or (3) otherwise to act as a "retailer" as defined by the
Act and the appellees.
The treatment of the appellant as a retailer subject to
the provisions of the Act is a direct burden upon interstate commerce.
Numerous provisions of the statute, if
applied to the appellant, would deprive it of its property
without due process of law. The action of the lower
court in denying injunctive relief was erroneous.
Mr. James J. Arditto, Deputy Attorney General of
California, with whom Messrs. U. S. Webb, Attorney General, H. H. Linney, Deputy Attorney General, and
Roger J. Traynor were on the brief, for appellees.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

By leave of Court, Mr. Jesse H. Steinhart filed a brief,
as amicus curiae, in support of appellant.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Appellant seeks an injunction prohibiting the state officers from enforcing against it the California Use Tax
Act of 1935. (Cal. Stat. 1935, ch. 361, as amended by
Cal. Stat. 1937, ch. 401, 671 and 683.) Counsel do riot
question the right of the state to collect this tax from
the user, etc., but they sa y that, in the circumstances here
disclosed, the officers may not compel appellant to serve
as an agent for collecting the tax as they are threatening
to do.
The trial court, three judges, dismissed the bill upon
motion.
It appearsAppellant, an Illinois corporation, is engaged in manufacturing and selling comptometers in that state and delivering these to purchasers in various parts of the Union.
As stated by the court below its method of doing business
with respect to California purchasers is substantially as
follows:
"Pursuant to a separate contract made with each, the
exclusive right to solicit orders in California is granted
to two general agents, each of whom is allotted a separate section of the State. Under this contract the only
compensation paid to a general agent consists of commissions on sales made. Each general agent may employ sub-agents and also a demonstrator for the purpose
of demonstrating and instructing respecting the comptometers, provided such employment is approved by
plaintiff. Likewise, plaintiff agrees by this contract to
pay the rent of an office for each general agent, provided
the lease to the same has been approved by it, such of-

FELT & TARRANT CO. r. GALLAGHlER:62

65

Opinion of the Court.

fice to be used exclusively in furthering its business;
also agrees to pay part of the traveling expenses incurred
by each general agent, his sub-agents and demonstrators
while traveling on business trips authorized by plaintiff,
and also to reimburse each general agent to the extent
of part of the monies advanced to a sub-agent and,'in
addition, in the amount of $40.00 per month toward the
salary of a demonstrator. Plaintiff assumes no other
financial obligation with respect to sub-agents and demonstrators. Under this contract the general agent must
devote his entire time and attention to soliciting orders
for plaintiff. All orders taken must be submitted to and
approved by plaintiff, all sales and deliveries must be
made by, and all bills for such orders as are accepted must
be rendered by, the plaintiff. The general agent is prohibited from making collections and all payments must be
made directly to plaintiff. The contract further requires
the general agent to maintain certain records, and make
certain reports and make a specified minimum number of
calls on prospective customers."
And further "That each of these two general agents
maintains an office in this State, the lease to such office
designating the plaintiff as lessee therein, the rent for the
same being paid by plaintiff, while all other expenses of
maintaining such offide are paid by the general agent.
As soon as an order is accepted a particular machine is
appropriated for that purpose in plaintiff's shipping department in Illinois. All machines sold for delivery in
California are shipped from one of plaintiff's distributing
points outside of the State. Sometimes machines are
forwarded directly to the purchasers, while in other instances, in order to secure reduced freight charges, large
groups of machines are shipped to the general agent who
makes delivery to the respective purchasers. The only
machines kept by plaintiff in California are those used as
13:090;°--89--5

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

demonstrators. Plaintiff has never qualified to do intrastate business in California."
The Use Tax Act (§ 6) directs retailers maintaining a
place of business in the state, and making sales of tangible
personal property for storage, use or other consumption
therein, to collect from the purchaser the tax imposed.
Appellant presents for our consideration two points:
(1) The statute as construed and applied by the appellees
to the appellant is repugnant to Art. I, § 8, clause 3 of the
Federal Constitution. (2) The threatened enforcement
of the statute would deprive appellant of his property
without Due Process of Law contrary to the Fourteenth
Amendment.
The argument is thisThe appellant, an Illinois corporation, carried on no
intrastate operations in California and is not subject to
its jurisdiction. Such business as it transacts in California is interstate in character. California, therefore,
lacks the power to require it (1) to act as the state's collecting agent with respect to use tax which may become
due from California storers, users or consumers, or (2) to
insure payment of such tax if it fails to make collections
from the tax debtors, or (3) otherwise to act as a "retailer" as defined by the Act and the appellees. The
treatment of the appellant as a retailer subject to the provisions of the California Use Tax Act is a direct burden
upon interstate commerce prohibited by the Federal Constitution. Numerous provisions of the statute, if applied, would deprive appellant of its property without due
process of law,
The trial court thought that both contentions were
foreclosed by what was said and ruled in Bowman v. Continental Oil Co., 256 U. S. 642, 650, Monamotor Oil Co. v.
Johnson, 292 U. S. 86, 93, 95, and Henneford v. Silas
Mason Co., 300 U. S. 577, 582, 583. And we agree with
that" conclusion.

FELT & TARRANT CO. v. GALLAGHER.
62

67

Opinion of the Court.

Henneford v. Silas Mason Co. upheld a Washington
statute similar to the one under consideration. The opinion declared (pp. 582, 583)"The tax is not upon the operations of interstate commerce, but upon the privilege of use after commerce is at
an end.
"Things acquired or transported in interstate commerce
may be subjected to a property tax, non-discriminatory
in its operation, when they have become part of the common mass of property within the state of destination ...
Tiis is so, indeed, though they are still in the original
packages. . . . For like reasons they may be subjected,
when once they are at rest, to a non-discriminatory tax
upon use or enjoyment. . . . A tax upon the privilege
of use or storage when the chattel used or stored has
ceased to be in transit is now an impost so common
that its validity has been withdrawn from the arena of
debate."
Bowman v. Continental Oil Company recognized the
right of the state to require a distributor "to render detailed statements of all gasoline received, sold, or used by
it, whether in interstate commerce or not, to the end that
the State may the more readily enforce said excise tax to
the extent that it has lawful power to enforce it as above
stated."
Monamotor Oil Co. v. Johnson upheld an Iowa statute.
The complainant there sought an injunction prohibiting
tax officers from requiring the distributor of motor oil
received from another state to pay into the state treasury
the tax levied upon the consumer. This Court said
(pp. 93, 95), "There is no substance in the claim that the
statutes impose a burden upon interstate commerce
The statute in terms imposes the tax on motor
vehicle fuel used or otherwise disposed of in the state.
Instead of collecting the tax from the user through its own
officers, the state makes the distributor its agent for that

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Statement of the Case.

306 U. S.

purpose. This is a common and entirely lawful arrangement. . . . The statute obviously was not intended to
reach transactions in interstate commerce, but to tax the
use of motor fuel after it had come to rest in Iowa, and
the requirement that the appellant as the shipper into
Iowa shall, as agent of the state, report and pay the tax
on the gasoline thus coming into the state for use by
others on whom the tax falls imposes no unconstitutional
burden either upon interstate commerce or upon the
appellant."
The challenged judgment must be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS took no

part in the consideration

or decision of this cause.

UNITED STATES v. DURKEE FAMOUS FOODS,
INC.*
APPEAL FROM TIE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 309.

Argued January 10, 11, 1939.-Decided January 30, 1939.

The Act of May 10, 1934, provides that when an indictment is
found insufficient after the period of the statute of limitations has
expired, a new indictment may be returned during the next succeeding term following such finding, during which a grand jury
shall be in session. Held that this does not authorize reindictment
at the same term during which the first indictment was found
defective. P. 69.
Affirmed.
APPEAL, under the Criminal Appeals Act, from a judgment sustaining a plea in bar to an indictment.
*

Together with No. 310, United States v. Manhattan Lighterage

Corp., and No. 311, Colgate-Palmolive-Peet Co. v. United States,
also on appeal from the District Court of the United States for the
District of New Jersey.

