STATE TAX COMM'N v. VAN COTT.
505

511

Counsel for Petitioners.

here, we cannot say the Puerto Rican courts were wrong.
In failing to uphold their construction of the local statutes, the Circuit Court of Appeals was in error.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed and
the complaint in the district court of Puerto Rico must
stand dismissed, as ordered by that court and affirmed by
the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico.
Reversed.
STATE TAX COMMISSION ET AL. v. VAN COTT.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF UTAH.

No. 491.

Argued March 6, 7, 1939.-Decided March 27, 1939.

1. Salaries of employees or officials of federal instrumentalities are
not immune under the Federal Constitution from taxation by the
States. Graves v. New York ex rel. O'Keefe, ante, p. 466. P. 515.
2. The judgment of the Supreme Court of Utah holding the salaries
of an attorney for the Reconstruction Finance Corporation and
the Regional Agricultural Credit Corporation, both federal
agencies, exempt from state taxation, does not rest squarely upon
the exemption in the Utah income tax law of salaries received
from the United States "for services rendered in connection with
the exercise of an essential governmental function," but appears
also to have been actuated by the doctrine that state taxation of
such salaries is forbidden by the Federal Constitution. P. 513.
3. In view of the overruling of that doctrine by Graves v. O'Keefe,
this Court vacates the judgment of the Supreme Court of Utah
and remands the case to that court, in order that it may determine
whether the salaries in question are exempted by the state statute,
purely as a question of local law. P. 515.
95 Utah 43; 79 P. 2d 6, vacated.
CERTIORARI, 305 U. S. 592, to review a judgment sustaining a claim of exemption from state income taxation,

on appeal from a ruling of the above-named Tax Commission.

Mr. Irwin Arnovitz, with whom Messrs. Joseph Chez,
Attorney General of Utah, and John D. Rice, Deputy
Attorney General, were on the brief, for petitioners.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

Mr. W. Q. Van Cott, pro se.
The decision of the court below was based squarely
upon the construction of the Utah taxing statute. It did
not and could not reach the federal question and should
not be reviewed.
The Reconstruction and Regional corporations are engaged exclusively in exercising traditional and important
functions of the United States,-"essential governmental
functions," if that phrase applies to any federal activities.
Brush v. Commissioner, 300 U. S. 352.
Under Dobbins v. Commissioners, 16 Pet. 435, and
Rogers v. Graves, 299 U. S. 401, respondent's salaries are
immune from state taxation, irrespective of the state
statute. Also, McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316;
Helvering v. Gerhardt, 304 U. S. 405.
No question as to the constitutionality of the Reconstruction or Regional Corporation is presented.
It is the present intention of Congress that the salaries
of officers and employees of the United States and its
instrumentalities shall be immune from taxation by the
States.
By leave of Court, Solicitor General Jackson filed a
brief on behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The State of Utah's income tax law, effective in 1935,
exempts all "Amounts received as compensation, salaries

or wages from the United StaTes . . . for services rendered in connection with the exercise of an essential
governmental function." 1 (Italics supplied.) In his return of income taxes to the State for 1935 under this
law, respondent claimed "as deduction" and "as exempt"
'Revised Stat. of Utah, 1933, § 80-14-4, (2) (g).

STATE TAX COMM'N v. VAN COTT.

513

Opinion of the Court.

511

salaries paid him as attorney for the Reconstruction Finance Corporation and the Regional Agricultural Credit
Corporation, both federal agencies. The exemptions
were denied by the Tax Commission of Utah, but the
Utah Supreme Court reversed.2 Before the Commission
and in the Supreme Court of Utah, respondent asserted,
first, that his salaries were exempt by the terms of the
state statute itself, and, second, that they could not be
taxed by the State without violating an immunity granted
by the Federal Constitution. In holding respondent's
income not taxable, the Supreme Court of Utah said:
"We shall have to be content to follow, as we think we
must, the doctrine of the Graves Case [Rogers v. Graves,
299 U. S. 401], until such time as a different rule is laid
down by the courts, the Congress, or the people through
amendment to the Constitution." I The Graves case applied the doctrine that the Federal Constitution prohibits
the application of state income taxes to salaries derived
from federal instrumentalities. We granted certiorari, in
the present case, because of the importance of the principle of Constitutional immunity from state taxation
which the Utah court apparently thought controlled its
judgment.'
Respondent contends that the Utah Supreme Court's
decision "was based squarely upon the construction of
the Utah taxing statute which was held to omit respondent's salaries as a subject of taxation, and therefore that
decision did not and could not reach the federal question
and should not be reviewed." But that decision cannot
be said to rest squarely upon a construction of the state
statute. The Utah court stated that the question before
it was whether respondent's salaries from the agencies
in question were "taxable income for the purpose of the
295

Utah 43; 79 P. 2d 6.

'79 P. 2d 14.
'305 U. S. 592.
133096 °39-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

state income tax law," and that the answer depended
upon whether these agencies exercised "essential governmental functions." But the opinion as a whole shows that
the court felt constrained to conclude as it did because of
the Federal Constitution and this Court's prior adjudications of Constitutional immunity. Otherwise, it is
difficult to explain the court's declaration that respondent could not be taxed under the "doctrine of the Graves
case until such time as a different rule is laid down by the
courts, the Congress or the people through amendment to
the Constitution." (Italics supplied.) If the court were
only incidentally referring to decisions of this Court in
determining the meaning of the state law, and had concluded therefrom that the statute was itself intended to
grant exemption to respondent, this Court would have no
jurisdiction to review that question.5 But, if the state
court did in fact intend alternatively to base its decision
upon the state statute and upon an immunity it thought
granted by the Constitution as interpreted by this Court,
these two grounds are so interwoven that we are unable
to conclude that the judgment rests upon an independent
interpretation of the state law.' Whatever exemptions
the Supreme Court of Utah may find in the terms of this
statute, its opinion in the present case only indicates that
"it thought the Federal Constitution [as construed by
this Court] required" it to hold respondent not taxable.'
'Miller's Executors v. Swann, 150 U. S. 132, 136; Interstate Railway Co. v. Massachusetts, 207 U. S. 79, 84; Louisville & Nashville R.
Co. v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 237 U. S. 300, 302; cf. Carmichael v. Southern Coal Co., 301 U. S. 495, 507.
'Abie State Bank v. Bryan, 282 U. S. 765, 773.
'Cf. Red Cross Line v. Atlantic Fruit Co., 264 U. S. 109, 120;
Tipton v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 298 U. S. 141, 152, 153;
Illinois Central R. Co. v. Messina, 240 U. S. 395, 397.

STATE TAX COMM'N v. VAN COTT.
511

515

Opinion of the Court.

After careful review of this Court's decisions on the
question of intergovernmental immunity, the state court
concluded that the Reconstruction Finance Corporation
and the Regional Agricultural Credit Corporation were
"instrumentalities" performing "essential governmental
duties" and that state taxation of respondent's salaries
violated the Federal Constitution as interpreted by the
Graves case. Anticipating that this Court might reexamine that interpretation and apply a "different test,"
the state court said that "Until such is hone the States
ar, bound by the decision of the Supreme Court in ...
Rogers v. Graves, supra."
We have now re-examined and overruled the doctrine
of Rogers v. Graves in Graves v. O'Keefe, ante, p. 466.
Salaries of employees or officials of the Federal Government or its instrumentalities are no longer immune, under
the Federal Constitution, from taxation by the States.
Whether the Utah income tax, by its terms, exempts respondent, can now be decided by the state's highest court
apart from any question of Constitutional immunity, and
without the necessity, so far as the Federal Constitution
is concerned, of attempting to divide functions of government into those which are essential and those which
are non-essential.
"We have frequently held that in the exercise of our
appellate jurisdiction we have power not only to correct
error in the judgment under review but to make such
disposition of the case as justice requires. And in determining what justice does require, the Court is bound
to consider any changd, either in fact or in law, which
has supervened since the judgment was entered. We may
recognize such a change, which may affect the result, by
setting aside the judgment and remanding the case so that
the state court may be free to act. We have said that
to do' this is not to review, in any proper sense of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

306 U. S.

term, the decision of the state court upon a non-federal
question, but only to deal appropriately with a matter
arising since its judgment and having a bearing upon the
right disposition of the case." '
Applying this principle, we vacate the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Utah and remand the cause to that
Jtdment vacated.
court for further proceedings.

The

CHIEF JUSTICE

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

LOWDEN

ET AL.,

TRUSTEES, v. SIMONDS-

SHIELDS-LONSDALE GRAIN CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 342.

Argued January 30, 31, 1939.-Decided March 27, 1939.

1. Upon the facts of this case, held that, within the meaning of a
tariff provision, there were "prior arrangements" covering "a specified period of time," between a shipper and the railroad for the
installation of grain doors in cars furnished to the shipper, and that
the shipper was liable for the tariff charge for such service.
P. 520.
2. A shipper can not escape liability to pay lawful tariff charges for
carrier service by disclaiming liability when ordering it; nor can the
carrier lawfully yield to such disclaimer. Id.
Involuntary rebates from tariff rates should be viewed with the
same disapproval as voluntary rebates.
3. Where, after the commencement of a suit by a railroad to recover
from a shipper a tariff charge of $1.00 per car for a service rendered,
the Interstate Commerce Commission determined that a charge
higher than 600 per car for such service was unreasonable and
authorized reparations accordingly, the railroad was entitled to
recover upon its claim reduced pro tanto. P. 521.
97 F. 2d 816, reversed.
8

Patterson v. Alabama, 294 U. S. 600, 607.

