UNITED STATES v. JACOBS.
Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. JACOBS, EXECUTRIX.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 391.

Argued February 2, 1939.-Decided February 27, 1939.

1. Under the Revenue Act of 1924, § 301, and substantially identical
provisions of the Revenue Act of 1926, in determining the tax upon
transfer of the net estate of a decedent, dying after the date of
enactment, there is to be included in the gross estate the full value
of property real or personal which was owned by the decedent and
his wife as joint tenants at the time of his death but which was
acquired with his funds; or was set up in part by his contribution
and in part by a contribution from the wife of property which he
had prev'ously given her. Pp. 364, 371.
2. These provisions are applicable under the statute, and valid under
the Fifth Amendment, notwithstanding that the joint tenancy was
created before the approval of the Acts mentioned and before the
enactment of the first estate tax law, in 1916. P. 366.
3. The tax is not retroactive, being imposed upon the occasion of the
change of ownership and beneficial rights at the death of one of
the joint tenants. P. 366.
4. Despite the common law distinctions between joint tenancies and
tenancies by the entirety, there are substantial similarities which
justified Congress in treating them alike for estate tax purposes.
P. 370.
5. The presumption that an Act of Congress is valid applies with
added force to a revenue Act. P. 370.
97 F. 2d 784, reversed; 99 id. 799, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 305 U. S. 588, 593, to review affirmances

below of two judgments of District Courts, in the one case
allowing, and in the other denying, recovery of money

exacted under a deficiency estate tax assessment. An

opinion of the District Court in the second case is reported
in 19 F. Supp. 56.
*Together with No. 482, Dimock, Substituted Executor, v. Corwin,
Late Collector of Internal Revenue, on writ of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.

364

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

Mr. Norman D. Keller argued the cause for the United
States in No. 391 and respondent in No. 482. Solicitor
General Jackson, Assistant Attorney General Morris, and
Mr. Sewall Key were on the briefs for the United States
in No. 391 and respondent in No. 482. Messrs. Carlton
Fox and A. F. Prescott also were on the brief for the
United States in No. 391. Messrs. Norman D. Keller and
Edward J. Ennis also were on the brief for respondent in
No. 482.
Mr' Hugh W. McCulloch, with whom Messrs. Frank H.
McCulloch, Lewis C. Murtaugh, and Ned P. Veatch were
on the brief, for respondent in No. 391.
Mr. E. J. Dimock, with whom Messrs. C. 0. Donahue
and J. D. Rawlings were on the brief, for petitioner in
No. 482.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.
No. 391.

The question is whether the entire value or only onehalf the value of real property-purchased by a decedent
with his own funds and held at his death by his wife and
himself under a joint tenancy set up prior to 1916-may
be included in the decedent's gross estate under the 1924
Revenue Act.
In 1909, real estate in Illinois was conveyed to
W. Fraricis Jacobs, the decedent, and Elizabeth C. Jacobs,
his wife, "as joint tenants" and this joint tenancy continued until decedent's death; the wife never contributed
any part of, or consideration for, the joint property; decedent died June 17, 19247 (after the effective date of the
1924 Revenue Act), and as survivor the wife became sole
owner in fee of the whole of the joint property.
The Commissioner included the full value of the property in decedent's gross estate for taxation under the 1924

UNITED STATES v. JACOBS.
363

Opinion of the Court.

Act. As executrix, respondent paid the tax, and sought
recovery in the District Court which held that the estate
tax could be imposed only upon one-half of the joint
property's total value. The Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed.'
Respondent construes the 1924 Revenue Act as taxing-by its terms--only one-half the value of the joint
property, and contends that inclusion of the property's
entire value for estate tax purposes would as retrocative
taxation violate the Due Process Clause of the Fifth
Amendment.
First. It is clear that Congress intended, by § 302 of the
1924 Act,2 to include in the gross estate of a decedent the
full value at death of all property owned by him and any
other in joint tenancy or by the entirety-irrespective of
the date of the tenancy's creation-insofar as the property or consideration therefor is traceable to the decedent.
Subdivision (h) of § 302 specifically provided that the
provisions of § 302 relating to joint tenancies should
"apply to the transfers, trusts, estates, interests, rights,
powers, and relinquishment of powers, as . . . described

F. 2d 784.
2 The 1924 Act imposed a tax (§ 301, Act of 1924, 43 Stat. 253,
303) "upon the transfer of the: net estate of every decedent dying
after" the Act's enactment, and included (§ 302) in each gross
estate 'the value of "the inteest ...
[in property] held as joint
tenants by the decedent and any other person, or as tenants by the
entirety by the decedent and spouse, . .. except such part thereof
as may be shown to have originally belonged to such other person
and never to have been received or acquired by the latter from the
decedent for less than a fair consideration in money or money's
worth: Provided, That where such property or any part thereof, or
part of the consideration with which such property was acquired,
is shown to have been at any time acquired by such person from
the decedent for less than a fair consideration in money or money's
worth, there shall be excepted only such part of the value of such
property as is proportionate to the consideration furnished by such
other person . ..'?
197

366

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

therein, whether made, created, arising, existing, exercised, or relinquished before or after the enactment of
this Act." [Italics supplied.] Section 302 (h) was
enacted in the 1924 Act after this Court, on May 1, 1922,
had decided that the 1916 Act did not purport to impose an estate tax measured by the value of property
held in joint tenancies created prior to the 1916 Act.'
"The clear language of the 1924 statute repels the notion
that it has no application to joint tenancies created
prior to September 8, 1916." '
Second. Here, decedent paid the entire purchase price
of the joint property with his own individual ftnds and,
therefore, the 1924 statute required the inclusion of the
full value of the joint property in his gross estate. Contending that the tax as so applied is retroactive, respondent insists that the Due Process Clause of the Fifth
Amendment forbids such taxation. The reasoning is that
a one-half interest in the joint property was transferred
to, and vested in, the wife in 1909; that the tax in question only applies to transfers; and that the one-half
interest transferred to the wife in 1909 could not thereafter (1924) be taxed as a part of decedent's gross estate
without retroactively applying the tax to the 1909 transfer.
But the tax was not levied on the 1909 transfer and
was not retroactive. At decedent's death in 1924, ownership and beneficial rights in the property which had
'Shwab v. Doyle, 258 U. S. 529, 535; Knox v. McElligott, 258
U. S. 546, 549. Respondent relies upon language of the Knox case to
support the contention that § 302 of the 1924 Act is retroactive in
its effect on joint tenancies such as the one here. However, the
actual judgment of the Court in that case went no further than to
hold that the terms of the 1916 Act there considered did not require
the inclusion-in gross estates-of the yalue of property held in joint
tenancies created prior to the enactment of that particular law.
'Gwinn v. Commissioner 287 U. S. 224, 226; cf., Phillips v. Dime
Trust & S. D. Co., 284 U. S. 160, 166.

UNITED STATES v. JACOBS.
363

Opinion of the Court.

existed in both tenants jointly changed into the single
ownership of the survivor. This change in ownership,
attributable to the special character of joint tenancies,
was made the occasion for an excise, to be measured by
the value of the property in which the change of ownership occurred. Had the tenancy not been created, this
survivorship and change of ownership would not have
taken place, but the tax does not operate retroactively
merely because some of the facts or conditions upon which
its application depends came into being prior to the enactment of the tax.'
Death duties or excises imposed upon the occasion of
change in legal relationships to property brought about
by death are ancient in origin. Congress has the power
to levy a tax upon the occasion of a joint tenant's acquiring the status of survivor at the death of a co-tenant.
In holding that the full value of an estate by the entirety
may constitutionally be included in a decedent's gross estate for estate tax purposes, this Court said: "The question. . . is, not whether there has been, in the strict sense
of that word, a 'transfer' of the property by the death of
the decedent, or a receipt of it by right of succession, but
whether the death has brought into being or ripened for
the survivor, property rights of such character as to make
appropriate the imposition of a tax upon that result
(which Congress may call a transfer tax, a death duty or
anything else it sees fit), to be measured, in whole or in
part, by the value of such rights...
"At . . . [the co-tenant's] death, however, and because of it, . . . [the survivor] for the first time, became
'Cf., Reynolds v. United States, 292 U. S. 443, 449; Cox v. Hart,
260 U. S. 427, 435.
'See, Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41, 47; 1 Cooley, "Taxation,"
§48, (4th ed.); Seligman, "Essays in Taxation," Ch. V, (9th ed.,
1921).

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

entitled to exclusive possession, use and enjoyment; she
ceased to hold the property subject to qualifications imposed by the law relating to tenancy by the entirety, and
became entitled to hold and enjoy it absolutely as her
own; and then, and then only, she acquired the power,
not theretofore possessed, of disposing of the property by
an exercise of her sole will. Thus the death of one of
the parties to the tenancy became the 'generating source'
of important and definite accessions to the property rights
of thp other. These circumstances, together with the
fact, the existence of which the statute requires, that no
part of the property originally had belonged to the wife,
are sufficient, in our opinion, to make valid the inclusion
of the property in the gross estate which forms the primary base for the measurement of the tax."
Thereafter, it was further decided that the full value
of the property passing to a survivor under a tenancy by
the entirety created prior to the estate tax of 1916 could
be included in the gross estate.8 Congress--it has been
held-may also constitutionally apply an estate tax to the
whole of a joint tenancy created after the 1916 Act,"
and to half of a joint tenancy created prior to the 1916
Act, where- the decedent alone had furnished consideration for the joint property."0
It is urged that these decisions do not support the tax
here upon the full value of the joint property, because
'Tyler v. United States, 281 U. S. 497, 503, 504.
Third National Bank & Trust Co. v. White, 45'F. 2d 911, affirmed
287 U. S.577; Helvering v. Bowers, 303 U. S. 618.
8

'Foster v. Commissioner, 3(W8 U. S. 618.
" Gwinn v. Commissioner, supra; Griswold v. Helvering, 290 U. S.

56, 58. In the Griswold case tbis Court said: "Whether this application of the statute gives it a retroactive effect is the sole question
here involved; and with that we find no difficulty. Under the stat-

ute the death of decedent is the event in respect of which the tax is
laid. It is the existence of the joint tenancy at that time, and not

its creation at an earlier date, which furnishes the basis for the tax."

UNITED STATES v. JACOBS.
363

Opinion of the Court.

this tenancy was created prior to the estate tax law of
1916. Respondent relies upon differences in the nature
of tenancies by the entirety and joint tenancies in order
to remove the present case from the application of these
prior adjudications. Since a joint tenant's interest in
realty is severable and subject to sale, the argument is
that upon the death of a co-tenant the survivor actually
receives nothing more than the decedent's one-half interest and therefore no more can be subjected to a death
duty. On the other hand, respondent explains the permissible taxation of the whole of a tenancy by the entirety by reference tQ the "amiable fiction" " of the common law, under which ownership of a husband and wife
in tenancy by the entirety is deemed a single individual
unity and each owns all and every part of the property
so held. 'By virtue of this feudal fiction of complete ownership in each of two persons, the surviving tenant by the
entirety is conceived to be the recipient of all the property upon the death of the co-tenant, and therefore-it
is said-all the property can be taxed.
The constitutionality of an exercise of the taxing power
of Congress is not to be determined by such shadowy
and intricate distinctions of common law property concepts and ancient fictions. 2 The Constitution grants
Cf., Tyler v. United States, supra, at 503.
A joint tenancy in Illinois-where the property involved here is
located-is described by that State's highest Court (as in the common
law) as follows: "The properties of a joint estate are derived from its
unity, which is fourfold: the unity of interest, the unity of title, the
unity of time and the unity of possession; or, in other words, joint
tenants have one and the same interest, accruing by one and the same
conveyance, commencing at one and the same time and held by one
and the same undivided possession." Deslauriers v. Senesac, 331 I1.
437, 440; 163 N. E. 327. The "learning in the books merely shows
that in case of a conveyance to husband and wife, there is a fifth
unity, to wit: that of person . . ." Topping v. Sadler, V Jones (No.
Car.) 357, 360. See note, 30 L. R. A. 305.
133096°-39-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

Congress the "Power To lay and collect Taxes, Duties,
Imposts, and Excises, to pay the Debts and provide for
the common Defence and general Welfare." No more
essential or important power has been conferred upon
the Congress and the presumption that an Act of Congress is valid applies with added force and weight to a
levy of public revenue. '
In addition, there is sufficient substantial similarity
between joint tenancies and tenancies by the entirety to
have .moved Congress to treat them alike for purposes of
taxation. Practical necessities-and taxation is "eminently practical" "--may well have led Congress to group
different types of joint ownership together for taxation
rather than to afford different treatment to each varying shade of such ownership. A tenancy by the entirety
"is essentially a joint tenancy, modified by the common
law theory that husband and wife are one person." 15
Only a fiction stands between the two. Survivorship
is the predominant and distinguishing feature of each.
The "grand incident of joint estate is the doctrine of
survivorship, 'by which, when two or more persons are
seized of a joint estate, .. . the entire tenancy upon the
decease of any of them remains to the survivors, and
at length to the last survivor; and he shall be entitled
to the whole estate, whatever it may be.' "16
While it is true that until the death of decedent here
each joint tenant possessed the right to sever the joint
tenancy, each was nevertheless subjected to the hazard
of losing the complete estate to the other 'as survivor.
Prior to decedent's death, his wife had no right to dispose of her interest by will, nor could it pass to her legal
is Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S. 509, 515.
14 Id., 516.
11 Tiffany, "Real Property" (1920), § 194; see, Littleton's "Ten-

ures," § 291 (Wambaugh, ed., 1903).
10 Freeman. "Cotenancy and Partition," 2nd ed., § 12,

UNITED STATES v. JACOBS.
363

Opinion of the Court.

heirs. She might survive and thereby obtain a complete
fee to the property with attendant rights of possession
and disposition by will or otherwise. Until the death of
her co-tenant, the wife could have severed the joint tenancy and thus have escaped the application of the estate
tax of which she complains. Upon the death of her cotenant she for the first time became possessed of the sole
right to sell the entire property without risk of loss which
might have resulted from partition or separate sale of her
interest while decedent lived. There was-at his deatha distinct shifting of economic interest, 7 a decided change
for the survivor's benefit. This termination of a joint
tenancy marked by a change in the nature of ownership
of property was designated by Congress as an appropriate occasion for the imposition of a tax. Neither the
amount of the tax nor its application to the survivor's
change of status and ownership, was in any manner dependent upon the date of the joint tenancy's creation,
whether before, or after, 1916. It is immaterial that
Congress chose to measure the amount of the tax by a
percentage of the total value of the property, rather than
by a part, or by a set sum for each such change. The
wisdom both of the tax and of its measurement was for
Congress to determine.
No. 482.
No. 482 involves provisions of the 1926 Revenue Act
(44 Stat. 9) substantially identical to those of the 1924
Act considered above. Here, also, a joint tenancy (in
personal property) was created by man and wife prior
to 1916. However, not all of the joint property was contributed by the decedent, but a portion was contributed
to the tenancy by the wife who survived. This property
" Cf., Chase National Bank v. United States, 278 U. S. 327, 338;
Saltonstall v. Saltonstall, 276 U. S. 260, 271,

372

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

which she transferred to the tenancy had in turn been
previously given to her-without consideration-by decedent before the creation of the joint tenancy. At decedent's death in 1930, an estate tax was assessed and paid
upon the full value of the joint property, including that
part contributed by the survivor but ultimately traceable
to the decedent.
The District Court held that the full value of the joint
property was taxable, 8 and the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed.1
The contention that the 1926 tax is unconstitutional
under the Fifth Amendment because imposed upon the
total value of the joint tenancy at decedent's death is
without merit, for reasons stated in No. 391.
However, there is here the further argument that the
courts below erred in construing the 1926 Act to require
the inclusion in the gross estate of that part of the joint
property (shares of stock) contributed to the joint tenancy by the survivor, but which had been paid for and
given to her by decedent prior to the creation of the
tenancy.
Although subdivision (h) of § 302 of the 1926 Act specifically required inclusion in the gross estate of the full
value of the joint property at death in proportion to the
decedent's contribution to the purchase price, petitioner
relies upon that part of subdivision (e) which excepts
"such part [of the joint property] . . . as may be shown
to have originally belonged to . . . [the survivor] and
never to have been received or acquired by the latter from
the decedent for less than an adequate and full consideration ih money or money's worth." Petitioner insists that
this exception should be read "except such parts thereof
as may be shown to have originally belonged to [the sur'819 F. Supp. 56.
1999 F. 2d 799.

UNITED STATES v. JACOBS.
363

Dissent.

vivor] and never after the passage of this Act to have
been received or acquired by the latter from the decedent
for less than an adequate and full consideration in money
or money's worth."
The surviving joint tenant in this case comes squarely
within the governing statutory provision because she "received" and "acquired" all of the property contributed
by her to the joint tenancy "from the decedent for less
than an adequate and full consideration in money or
money's worth." This language adopted by Congress
clearly and unambiguously indicates the purpose to tax
the entire value of a joint tenancy under circumstances
shown by this record. We are without authority to add
language to the statute directly contrary to such a clearly
expressed purpose.
The judgment in No. 391 is reversed and that in No. 482
is affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration or
decision of these cases.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE BUTLER, and
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS think that the judgment in No. 391
should be affirmed and that in No. 482 should be reversed.

It has long been the settled doctrine of this court that
Congress cannot retroactively tax, as testamentary, a
transfer consummated in accordance with existing law
before the adoption of a system of estate taxation, and
where the parties, at the time of the transaction, had
no notice of intent to tax it as a transfer in contemplation of death or to take effect in possession or enjoyment
at or after death.' In order to avoid holding taxing acts
INichols v. Coolidge, 274 U. S. 531; Helvering v. Helmholtz, 296
U. S. 93, 97; White v. Poor, 296 U. S. 98, 102.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Dissent.

306 U. S.

unconstitutional on this gronnd, the court has often construed them as applying prospectively only. 2 Reliance
is placed by the Government on decisions sustaining
inclusion in the estate of one spouse of the entire value
of an estate by the entireties. In the earlier cases wherein the exaction was upheld the act operated prospectively
and affected only such an estate arising after passage of
the statute,' or the estate came into being after the adoption of a system of taxation which might well include such
a transfer within its scope." Subsequently the inclusion of
the entire value in the taxable estate of one spouse was
sustained where the tenancy by the entireties antedated
the passage of the estate tax acts.5 The decision was
based upon the peculiar nature of a tenancy by the
entireties as expounded in Tyler v. United States. A
*transfer tax measured by one-half the value of an estate
in joint tenancy has been approved alth6ugh the estate
was created prior to the adoption of the system of estate
taxes; ' but the court has never passed upon the validity
of such a tax measured by the value of the entire joint
estate. There are marked differences between a tenancy
by thd entireties and a joint tenancy in respect of the
power of one tenant to destroy the joint estate, to transfer or encumber his interest and otherwise obtain the
fruits of it. In order to prevent evasion Congress may
include the value of the entire estate in the gross estate
as a measure of the tax where the estate originates after
'Shwab v. Doyle, 258 U. S. 529; Knox v. McElligott, 258 U. S.
546; Union Trust Co. v. Wardell, 258 U. S. 537; Levy v. Wardell,
258 U. S. 542; Lewellyn v. Frick, 268 U. S. 238.
'Tyler v. United States, 281 U. S. 497.
'Phillips v. Dime Trust & Safe Deposit Co., 284 U. S. 160.
Third National Bank & Trust Co. v. White, 287 U. S. 577; Helvering v. Bowers, 303 U. S. 618.
6
Knox v. McElligott, supra; Gwinn v. Commissioner, 287 U. S.
224; Cahn v. United States, 297 U. S. 691.

HALE v. BIMCO TRADING CO.
363

375

Statement of the Case.

adoption of the law.' But it may not retroactively apply
such measure to an estate created at a time when its
creators had no reason to expect that such a tax would
be laid in view of the settled rules of property.

HALE, CHAIRMAN,

ET AL.

INC.,

v. BIMCO TRADING,

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.

No. 418.

Argued February 6, 1939.-Decided February 27, 1939.

1. Plaintiffs in the federal court secured a decree enjoining state
officers from enforcing a state statute as unconstitutional. A
proceeding of mandamus, to which they were not parties, was
pending before the state supreme court in which the same officers
had been commanded to execute the statute, as valid. Further
action in the mandamus case was suspended by the state court to
await final decision of the corstitutional question by this Court
on appeal in the injunction suit. Held that Jud. Code § 265,
28 U. S. C. § 379, which provides that a writ of injunction shall
not be granted by any court of the United States to stay proceedings in any court of a State, is inapplicable. P. 378.
2. State legislation providing standards for all cement sold or used
in the State, and requiring inspection and imposing an "inspection
fee" of fifteen cents per hundredweight-sixty times the cost of
-inspection-in respect of cement imported from abroad, 30%
of the cement sold or used in the State, whilst requiring no inspection and exacting no fee in respect of domestic cement-held
invalid under the commerce clause of the Constitution. Pp. 378,
380.
Affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of three
judges which enjoined the appellants, members of the
State Road Department of Florida, from enforcing a
Florida statute. The court below filed no opinion.

'See Nichols v. Coolidge, supra, p. 542; Tyler v. United States,
supra, p. 505; Helvering v. City Bank Co., 296 U. S. 85, 90.

