86

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

306 U. S.

MACKAY RADIO & TELEGRAPH CO. v. RADIO
CORPORATION OF AMERICA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND

No. 127.

CIRCUIT.

Argued December 14, 15, 1938.-Decided January 30, 1939.

1. Carter patent, No. 1,974,387, for a directive antenna system for
use in radio communication, held not infringed by petitioner's antenna structures. Pp. 88, 101.
Claims 15 and 16 are invalid so far as they claim antennae of
wire lengths intermediate of multiples of half wave lengths. And
so far as the patent discloses and claims invention of a V antenna
structure made in conformity to the Abraham formula, petitioner's structures do not infringe, for none of them conforms to
the Abraham formula. One has wires which are an integral number of half wave lengths long, but uses an angle 10% smaller
than that derivable from the Abraham formula; all of the others
have wires which are not multiples of half wave lengths long
and angles not derivable from the formula.
2. The disclosure of the Carter patent was that the best directional
radio propagation by the V type antenna is obtained in the d.rection of its bisector, with a structure in which the angle of the
wires, their length, and the length of wave propagated are in a
definite mathematical relationship expressed by a formula disclosed in the specifications. The formula shows that the appropriate angle between each of the antenna wires and their bisector
depends upon the wave length to be propagated and the wire
length, which is a multiple of half wave lengths. The formula
had been developed and published by Abraham thirty years previously. Lindenblad had taught that with an arrangement of
antenna wires at an angle, radiation will occur in the direction of
the bisector of the angle and that the preferred angle was dependent upon an indicated relationship between wire length and wave
length. Carter's invention therefore, if it was invention, consisted
in taking the angle of the Abraham formula as the *angle between each wire of the V antenna and its bisector, afid thus
establishing along the bisector the greatest directional radio activity.
The empirical formula of the specifications and Claims 15 and

MACKAY CO. v. RADIO CORP.
86

87

Counsel for Parties.

16, derived graphically from the Abraham formula, disclosed
no invention other than the application of the Abraham formula
to the V antenna when wave length and wire length are known.
Held, assuming that it was more than the skill of the art to combine the teaching of Abraham with that of Lindenblad and others
who had pointed out that the arrangement of the wires at an
angle enhanced directional radio activity along their bisector, then
the invention was a narrow one, consisting of a structure conforming to the teachings of the Abraham formula as to angle and
wire length relative to wave length, and is to be strictly construed with regard both to prior art and to alleged infringing
devices. Carter, avoiding prior art by defining his angle for
antennae with wires of particular wave lengths with mathematical
precision, can not discard that precision to establish infringement.
Pp. 94, 102.
3. The application of Carter, at least before the amendments introduced subsequently to the commencement of the present litigation, can not be construed as embracing structures not conforming to the Abraham formula. And the attempt by amendment
to extend the claims, based on the application of the empirical
formula (derived from the Abraham formula) to wire lengths not
multiples of half wave lengths, must fail, because it involved a
departure from what Carter's application had described as his
invention, and a contradiction of it. P. 98.
4. It is unnecessary in this case to decide the further question
whether petitioner's structures avoid infringement because the
direction of their principal radio activity is not in the plane of the
wires. P. 102.
96 F. 2d 587, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 305 U. S. 582, to review a decree which
modified and reversed a decree of the District Court, 16
F. Supp. 610, dismissing the bill in a suit to enjoin infringements of patents.

Mr. Samuel E. Darby, Jr., with whom Messrs. Hugh
M. Morris and Paul Kolisch were on the brief, for

petitioner.
Mr. Jo. Baily Brown, with whom Mr. Abel E. Black-

mar, Jr. was on the brief, for respondent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the CortI.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

306 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the Court.*

The questions presented for decision by the petition
for certiorari are whether the Carter patent, No. 1,974,387, of September 18, 1934, for a directive antenna system for use in radio communication, is valid and is infringed by antennae structures used by petitioner in such
communication.
Respondent brought the present suit in the District
Court for eastern New York to enjoin infringements of
four patents relating to radio antennae or their operation.
Two were those of Carter and two those of Lindenblad.
Of these only the second Lindenblad patent, No. 1,927,522, of September 19, 1933, for an antenna for radio communication, is of present importance. When the suit
was begun the application for the third Carter patent,
with which we are presently concerned, was pending.
After petitioner had answered and respondent, as a result of the litigation, had acquired knowledge of the particulars of the structure and operation of petitioner's antennae, Carter, respondent's assignor, amended the statement of his invention in his application so as in terms to
embrace a differentiating feature of petitioner's structures. After this patent was issued respondent was permitted to file a supplemental bill charging infringement
of it. The suits were consolidated, and the parties proceeded to trial on the issues of the validity and infringement of all five patents.
After taking the voluminous testimony of numerous
witnesses, the trial court found that none of the patents
in suit was infringed and decreed that the suits be dismissed. 16 F. Supp. 610. It held that none of them
was a pioneer patent; that none had been employed by
any one; that respondent's commercial structures -did
* Opinion reported as amended by order of March 6, 1939, post,

p. 618.

MACKAY CO. v. RADIO CORP.
86

Opinion of the Court.

not follow the teachings of any of them; and that consequently they were not entitled to a broad construction.
With respect to the Carter patent in suit it said: "The
disclosure and the claims were broadened not only contrary to their original terminology but to their spirit as
well." And ". . . by those amendments the plaintiff attempted to mold the third Carter patent both as to disclosure and claTims, to cover defendant's antenna systems.
This could not lawfully be done."
On appeal from so much of the decrge as related to the
second Lindenblad patent and the third Carter patent,
the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed as
to the Lindenblad patent, but reversed as to the Carter
patent, holding Claims 15 and 16 valid and infringed. 96
F. 2d 587. We granted certiorari, 305 U. S. 582, because of the nature and importance of the case, on a petition which urged as grounds for its allowance that validity and infringement of the Carter patent were in doubt
and that, as petitioner is the only competitor of respondent in the business of world wide public radio communication, further litigation, resulting in conflict of decision
among circuits, was improbable.
In ordinary broadcasting, radio waves are projected in
all directions from the sending station. In radio communication it is advantageous and has long been the practice to use a directive antenna by which the waves of
radio activity emanating from it are projected as a beam
in the direction of the receiving station. In practice the
beam is directed at an angle from the earth's surface
toward the ionized layer of the stratosphere, or Ileaviside layer, from which the beam is deflected toward the
earth's surface in the compass direction of the receiving
station. In more recent years it has been the practice
to use relatively short wave lengths for radio communication.

90

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

The radio waves are generated at the sending station
by feeding an oscillating electric current of appropriate
character into the wire or wires of the antenna. The
electric waves in the wires energize radio activity, which
the antenna projects as radio waves toward the receiving
station. By modulating or interrupting the current, corresponding modulation or interruption of the radio waves
is effected, which may be used as a means of transmitting
any desired signal. The waves, as modulated, impinge
on the antenna of the receiving station devised to receive
and utilize them as a means of controlling, with corresponding modulation, an electric current which in turn
actuates a mechanism contrived to give audible or visual
expression to the transmitted signal.
The effective part of the antenna is a copper wire from
which the radio waves are radiated, supported on towers
or poles at a height above the ground depending on the
wave length used. The wire may be parallel with the
earth, or vertical, or arranged at an angle, depending
upon the function to be performed. Before Carter, antennae of two or more wires in varying arrangement had
been used. The second Lindenblad patent showed an
antenna of two wires arranged at an angle in the form of
a V or an X, and it pointed out that in such an arrangement radiation will take place in the direction of the axis
or bisector of the angle of the diverging wires, and that
"the spacing at the open end [of the wires], while variable over a great range, should be in the neighborhood
of a fifth of the length, and the length of each antenna
section should be of the order of magnitude of five to
ten waves long."
While such an arrangement projects the radio waves
principally in two directions along the bisector of the
angle of the antenna wires, the prior art had made use of
an arrangement of wires, parallel to the wires of the angu-

MACKAY CO. v. RADIO CORP.
86

Opinion of the Court.

lar antenna, as a "reflector" by which the radiation was
projected as a beam in one direction away from the reflector and along the bisector of the angle of the wires.
The present Carter patent is for an "antenna system
utilizing standing wave phenomena." Like the second
Lindenblad patent, it is concerned with a V antenna by
which the principal radiation is directed in the plane of
the wires along the bisector of their angle. The disclosure of the patent, in which the court below found
invention, was that the best directional radio propagation by the V type antenna is obtained with a structure
in which the angle of the wires, their length, and the
length of wave propagated are in a definite mathematical
relationship expressed by a formula disclosed in the
specifications.
In explaining his invention, Carter pointed out that
"It is known that when a wire having a length greater
than the operating wave length is excited in such manner
that standing waves are produced thereon, radiation will
occur principally in the direction of symmetrical cones
having their apices at the center of the wire. Such is
the case with a wire having a length equal to a plurality
of one-half wave lengths at the operating frequency.
The radiation pattern produced in such instance appears,
in cross section, in the form of symmetrical cones about
the wire. The present invention, which makes use of
these phenomena, in its most simple aspect employs a
pair of open-ended wires energized in phase opposition
to have standing waves throughout the length of the
wires, the wires having such angular relation with respect
to each other as to obtain a highly directional, efficient
and simple antenna system." 1
"Understanding of the disclosure and other features of the patent requires a brief explanation of its terms. The term "long," as
applied to an antenna, means a wire which is long in relation to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

The patent states the mathematical formula by which
the desired relationship is secured, which shows that the
appropriate angle between each of the antenna wires and
their bisector depends upon the wave length to be propagated and the use of antenna wires of a length which is a
multiple of half wave lengths.'
wave length used. The term "standing waves," as distinguished from
"traveling waves," describes the phenomenon manifested when an
oscillating electric current of radio frequency is communicated to
one end of a wire which is open at the other (that is, not in a
closed circuit) and sufficiently short so that the waves have not
completely radiated their energy before reaching the end of the wire.
The waves will then be reflected back along the wire, and the energy
of the reflected waves tends to unite with that of the oncoming waves
of the same periodicity, so as to produce standing waves along the
wire. As the velocity of the radio wave in space is approximately
that of the current waves in the wire, the number of complete standing waves on the wire is always exactly the same as the length of the
wire divided by the wave length. When the length of the wire is a
multiple of half wave lengths, the oncoming and reflected waves,
traveling at the same velocity, occur simultaneously, differing in this
respect from the waves in a wire of a length intermediate a multiple
of half wave lengths, and with different effects upon the -resulting
radio energy, presently to be noted.
When oscillating current is so related to the length of wire that
the energy of the former is exhausted by radiation before ot when
the waves reach the end of the wire, there is no reflection of the
waves, and they travel in one direction only toward the open end
of the wire. They are denominated "traveling waves." In professional parlance, wires producing reflected, and hence "standing"
waves, are electrically of finite length. Those of sufficient length to
avoid reflection and thus carry waves flowing in only one direction
are said to be electrically of infinite length.
2 The specifications state: "By considering a long wire the equivalent of a very large number of very short, (Hertz) oscillators and
by adding up the field components at any point P having a direction
angle 0 relative to the axis of the wire, where the point P is a great
distance from the wire as compared to the length of the wire such
that all lines from point P to any point on the wire are essentially
parallel, it can be shown that the field strength H is given by the

MACKAY CO. v. RADIO CORP.
86

Opinion of the Court.

The significance of the formula lies in the fact that.
the angle between the wire and the direction of greatest
radio activity is a trigonometrical function of two variables, the wave length used and the "number of half wave
lengths contained in the wire," and that, as the application stated, the use of the formula in practice presupposes
the use of a wire whose length is a multiple of half wave
lengths. The patent then explains that the angle 0 of the
formula is the angle between each wire of the V antenna
and its bisector-in other words, that the angle of the
wires of the antenna is twice 0 and hence, like the angle
of the formula, is a function of the wave length and the
length of the wires, which are each a multiple of half
wave lengths long.
Carter did not invent the formula. It had bee.n developed by Abraham and published in a scientific journal
thirty years before. Annalen der Physik, 1898, Physikalische Zeitschrift, March 2, 1901. Abraham's formula expressed the scientific truth that when radio activity is
projected from a charged wire of finite length, i. e., one
having standing waves, and having a length of a multiple
of half wave lengths, the angle between the direction of
the principal radio activity and the wire is dependent on
following proportionality for a conductor an odd number of half wave
lengths long:
cos 0
Ila COS(nsin 0
-"The letter 'n' indicates the number of half wave lengths contained
in the wire.
"For a wire an even number of half wave lengths long, in similar
fashion, the field strength 'H' is given by the following proportionality:
Ha sin(n2 cos 0)
sin 0

"Where n as above indicates the number of half wave lengths on the
wire."

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

wave length and wire length, which is a multiple of half
wave lengths. Lindenblad had described his antenna as
using either standing or traveling waves and, as we have
seen, had taught that with an arrangement of antenna
wires at an angle, radiation will occur substantially in the
direction of the bisector of the angle and that the preferred angle was dependent upon an indicated relationship between wire length and wave length.
It is plain, therefore, that the Carter invention, if it
was invention, consisted in taking the angle of the Abraham formula as the angle between each wire of the V
antenna and its bisector. By so doing he brought the
cones of principal radio activity, each having one of the
wires of the antenna as its axis, into conjunction at their
periphery and along the bisector of the angle between the
wires, and thus established there the greatest directional
radio activity.
While a scientific truth, or the mathematical expression
of it, is not patentable invention, a novel and useful
structure created with the aid of knowledge of scientific
truth may be. But we do not stop to solve the problem
whether it was more than the skill of the art to combine
the teaching of Abraham with that of Lindenblad and
others who had pointed out that the arrangement of the
wires at an angle enhanced directional radio activity
along their bisector. We assume, without deciding the
point, that this advance was invention even though it
was achieved by the logical application of a known scientific law to a familiar type of antenna. But it is apparent that if this assumption is correct the invention
was a narrow one, consisting of a structure conforming to
the teachings of the Abraham formula as to angle and
wire length relative to wave length, and is to be strictly
construed with regard both to prior art and to alleged
infringing devices. Kokomo Fence Machine Co. v. Kit-

MACKAY CO. v. RADIO CORP.
86

Opinion of the Court.

selman, 189 U. S. 8; Cimiotti UnhairingCo. v. American
Fur Refining Co., 198 U. S. 399. Carter's structure was
a V antenna having an angle double the Abraham angle
and wires containing a multiple of half wave lengths.
Carter, using the Abraham formula, calculated the
value of the angle 0 in that formula for wires up to fourteen wave lengths long. He plotted the result, which he
expressed graphically in figure 12 of the patent by drawing a smooth curve connecting the discrete points on the
graph which indicated the results of his computation by
use of the Abraham formula. From this calculation he
derived a formula in empirical form I for determining the
desired angle when wave length and length of wire are
known, in which the angle between the wires is described
as twice a, which is the equivalent of the angle 0 of the
Abraham formula.
Petitioner uses antennae with wires in V arrangement,
but their wires are not an integral number of half wave
lengths long, with the exception of one antenna, No. 8,
which is four wave lengths long and uses an angle 10%
smaller than that prescribed by the Abraham formula
for that length of wire. The others are of lengths which
are approximately multiples of quarter wave lengths, and
their angles differ from the angles of the formula. The
crucial question in the case is whether a V antenna structure, having a wire length to which the Abraham formula
does not apply and using an angle not to be derived from
that formula, which is the basis of the patent, infringes
Carter's patent. Respondent insists that it does, because, as it argues, the invention disclosed by Carter's
a "For practical purposes the empirical formula
a

50.9(4)

degrees

is sufficiently accurate where 1equals the length of the wire and x the
wave length, both in the same units of measurement."

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

application, elaborated by amendment and broad claims,
embraces all V antennae arranged at an angle double the
angle of the empirical formula, even though the length
of the wires is not an exact multiple of half wave lengths,
as prescribed by the Abraham formula. This is the invention of Claim 15,' and it is urged that the claim is
amply supported by 'he statement in the specifications
appearing in the original application that the empirical
formula represented by the plotted curve of figure 12 of
the patent."will be found accurate for all practical purposes where the length of wire dealt with does not correspond to a whole number of half wave lengths."
The trial court, analyzing Carter's application and taking into account the essentials of the Abraham formula
and the statement in the application that the "object of
the present invention is to disclose the proper angle for
conductors or radiators" measured in multiples of half
wave lengths, evidently thought, as petitioner argues,
that the references in the application to "wires of finite"
'"15.

An antenna comprising a pair of relatively long conductors
disposed with respect to each other at an angle substantially equal
50.9 () -°'!
to twice
degrees, 1 being the length of the wire and k the operating wave
length in like units, and means in circuit with said antenna for exciting the conductors in phase opposition whereby standing waves
of opposite instantaneous polarity are formed on the conductors
throughout their length."
Claim 16 claims an antenna arranged in conformity to the empirical formula, as in Claim 15, with "a similar parallel pair of conductors spaced an odd number of quarter wave lengths away from
said first mentioned pair . . ." These parallel wires -constitute the
"reflector," which, as already noted, was old in the art.
1 "Still a further object of the present invention is to disclose the
proper angle for conductors or radiators cither an even number of
half wave lengths long or an odd number of half wave lengths long,

MACKAY CO. v. RADIO CORP.
86

Opinion of the Court.

length and to wires "of any length whatsoever" ' were intended only to refer to wires of electrically finite as distinguished from electrically infinite length, capable of
producing standing waves utilized by the antenna of the
patent, and of any length conforming to the requirements
of the basic formula.7 It concluded that the correct
construction of the application was that the invention described did not go beyond the scope of the Abraham formula and so extended only to the angles calculable by
that formula for standing wave wires measured by multiples of half wave lengths. Support is given to this
conclusion by the statement in the application that "The
law, giving the correct angle for lengths between odd and
even number of half wave lengths, is not given due to its
complexity..."
The Court of Appeals placed emphasis on the reference
to "wires of any finite length" and on the statement that
and, in general to disclose the angle for best directional propagation
for wires of any finite length."
After the present suit was brought this paragraph was amended to
read:
"Another object of the invention is to disclose the angle for the best
directional propagation for open-ended wires of any finite length,
preferably longer than the operating wave length, having standing
waves thereon and arranged in the manner proposed."
6 "Moreover, it should be clearly understood that the wires of each
unit can be of any length whatsoever provided they are placed at
the correct angle for their length. For best tuning, the total overall length of both of the wires and the 'U' loop terminating them
should be effectively an integral number of half wave lengths, but,
the portion forming the radiation element can be of any length.
The law, giving the correct angle for lengths between odd and even
number of half wave lengths, is not given due to its complexity, but
the empirical formula and the curve of figure 12 will be found accurate for all practical purposes, where the length of wire dealt
with does not correspond to a whole number of half wave lengths."
See note 1, supra.
133096°-39-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

"the empirical formula and the curve of figure 12 will be
found accurate for all practical purposes, where the length
of wire dealt with does not correspond to a whole number of half wave lengths." It held that the invention
disclosed was the application of the empirical formula
to all lengths of antenna wires and embraced all angles
resulting from such calculation, and that the invention
was consequently infringed by petitioner's structures.
Whether or not it was the purpose of the patentee, by
these references to wire lengths in his application, to extend his patent to structures not conforming to the Abraham formula, we are not able to construe the application,
before amendment at least, as embracing such an extension. And we think that the attempt to extend the
claims, based on the application of the empirical formula,
to wire lengths not multiples of half wave lengths, must
fail, because such structures are not within the invention
described in the application.
The formula in Claims 15 and 16 is the empirical formula derived from the Abraham formula, which is, by its
terms, applicable only to antenna wires which are multiples of half wave lengths long. Carter's empirical formula, wholly derived from Abraham's formula, and taken
together with it, therefore discloses no invention or discovery more than the application of the Abraham formula to the V antenna. It reveals no scientific law applicable to wire lengths which are intermediate of multiples of half wave lengths, and the application explicitly
states that "the law, giving the correct angle for lengths
between odd and even number of half wave lengths, is
not given." The preparation, by methods familiar to engineers, of the graph in figure 12, which was but a pictorial representation of the Abraham formula applied to
certain wire lengths specified in the formula, did not involve invention. Neither the empirical formula nor its
graph gives any clue to the directional radio activity re-

MACKAY CO. v. RADIO CORP.
Opinion of the Court.

86

sulting from the use of wire lengths intermediate of multiples of half wave lengths, which were excluded by the
Abraham formula, and neither afforded any basis for a
claim of invention not supported by the use of the Abraham formula itself.
The claimed use of the empirical formula for the calculation of the angle for wires which are not multiples of
half wave lengths long thus involved a departure from
what Carter's application had described as his invention,
and a contradiction of it. What Carter did was to describe his structure in terms of its dimensions, arrived at
by the use of the Abraham formula, which was stated to
embody the applicable scientific law. He then derived
the empirical formula from Abraham. From the very
method of derivation the empirical formula meant nothing different from that of Abraham. He then declared
the empirical formula to embody a method of arriving
at the measurements of a structure different from the
structure first described as the invention and not capable
of construction by the method of the Abraham formula.
If, as a result of this legerdemain, a V antenna having
wire lengths a multiple of any fractional wave length is to
be taken as the invention of Carter's application, then
everything that it said of the Abraham formula and of
wires "either an even number of half wave lengths long
or an odd number of half wave lengths long" could be discarded without changing its meaning.'
This attempt to broaden the only invention described
in the application through a purely mechanical alteration of the meaning of the empirical formula, which had
been devised as a shorthand expression of the scientific
law on which the invention was declared to rest, cannot,
we think, be taken to enlarge the description of the invention as measured by the Abraham formula, so as to
include a structure to which that formula does not apply.
S

See note 5, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

This use of the empirical formula for a purpose for which
it was not devised does not justify our construing the
application as though all reference to the Abraham formula had been eliminated and a new and different one
expressing a new and different scientific law had been
substituted for it. The result of reading the application
as respondent contends it should be construed is precisely
the same as though full effect were given to a claim which
goes beyond the invention described, and it is open to the
same objection.
After the present suit was brought the application was
altered by.-amendment so as in effect to wipe out all reference to the scientific law by which Carter's invention
was defined. This was accomplished by changes which
implicitly assert that the letter n of the formula of the invention, the Abraham formula, meant something different from "the number of half wave lengths contained in
the wire" of a length of multiples of half wave lengths as
stated both in the application and in the patent.
The reference in the application to the purpose of the
invention to disclose the "proper angle" for radiators of
multiples of half wave lengths long was altered by eliminating from it all mention of half wave lengths." A
sentence added after formal allowance of the patent
states: "By the term 'plurality of wave lengths', or 'plurality of half wave lengths', or 'several half wave lengths',
it is not intended that the wires so described shall necessarily be an exact or appropriate integral number of such
lengths, unless so specified, but rather that each of the
wires so described shall be sufficiently long to include the
lengths specified." These amendments operated to modify the Abraham formula so as to cancel from the application the statement of the scientific law defining the
invention. They left as its definition the modified
9 See note 5,

supra.

MACKAY CO. v. RADIO CORP.
S6

Opinion of the Court.

Abraham formula and its counterpart, the empirical
formula, stating a different law which their genesis did
not authorize.
We think that these alterations were not permissible'.
Schriber-Schroth Co. v. Cleveland Trust Co., 305 U. S.
47, and that without them the invention must be taken
to be limited to a structure having an angle double that
disclosed by the Abraham formula, which was made the
basis of the alleged invention. As already shown, neither
the Abraham formula nor the empirical formula describes, or purports to describe, the directional radio activity or defines the angle which affords "the best directional propagation" of the patent for antennae of wire
lengths intermediate of multiples of half wave lengths.
The expert testimony shows that in fact neither formula
serves that purpose. The finding of the trial court that
they do not make "a correct showing of what happens
when 'the wires are other than exact multiples of half
wave lengths" is supported by the evidence. The testimony warrants the conclusion that differences in wave
effect already noted,' ° when wires of other than exact
multiples of half wave lengths are used, produce, through
consequent changes in "radiation resistance," differences
in directional radio activity not calculable by the formulae of the patent. It follows that Claims 15 and 16, so
far as they claim antennae of wire lengths intermediate
of multiples of half wave lengths, are invalid. So far as
the patent discloses and claims invention of a structure
made in conformity to the Abraham formula, petitioner's
structures do not infringe, for none of them conforms to
the Abraham formula.
For reasons already indicated it is not material that
the variations are small between the angles used by petitioner for wire lengths of multiples of quarter wave lengths
1o

See note 1, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

and those obtained by application of the empirical formula. Further, Carter's advance over prior art was in
specifying an exact angle for wires of the prescribed
length. Lindenblad had indicated a preferred angle, and
Bruce, before Carter, had plotted a rule of thumb graph,
uhich the trial court found to be prior art, showing the
directional radio activity of a V antenna and exhibiting
relatively small variations from that of Carter. Carter,
avoiding prior art by defining his angle for antennae
with wires of particular wave lengths with mathematical
precision, cannot discard that precision to establish infringement. Kokomo Fence Machine Co. v. Kitselman,
supra; Cimiotti Unhairing Co. v. American Fur Refining Co., supra, cf. General Electric Co. v. Wabash Corp.,
304 U. S. 364.
It is unnecessary to discuss the further question
whether petitioner's structures avoid infringement because
the direction of their principal radio activity is not in the
plane of the wires, an operative difference from the antennae described by the patent which the court below
found to be due wholly to ground effect, which it thought
must be assumed to be envisaged by, though not stated in,
the Carter patent.
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE ROBERTS

or decision of this case.

took no part in the consideration

