WILENTZ v. SOVEREIGN CAMP.
563

573

Syllabus.

the equity suit should be dismissed or whether the bill
should be retained without further proceedings pending
disposition of the suit at law, as may be done by the
equity court in its discretion. Landis v. North American
Co., 299 U. S. 248; American Life Ins. Co. v. Stewart,
supra, 215. The guiding principle is that the fdderal
court should proceed only so far as is necessary to protect
the suitor from loss of his defense at law, without needlessly interfering with the determination of the plaintiff's
rights in the state court, where his action was properly
begun. See Di Giovanni v. Camden Fire InsuranceAssn.,
supra, 73; and cases cited.
The certificate fails to disclose whether all the facts
and circumstances pertinent to this issue have been certified. This Court cannot be required by certificate to answer, and should not answer, questions which may be
affected by unstated matter lurking in the record, or
questions which admit of one answer under one set of
circumstances and a different answer under another,
neither of which is inconsistent with the certificate. See
Triplett v. Lowell, 297 U. S. 638, 648, 649.
The certificate is
Dismissed.
WILENTZ ET AL. v. SOVEREIGN CAMP, WOODMEN
OF THE WORLD.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 448.

Argued March 2, 1939.-Decided April 17, 1939.

1. The requirement of Judicial Code, § 266 that the three judge
court procedure there prescribed with direct appeal to the Supreme
Court may be invoked only when Ihe suit is one to restrain the action
of state officers in the enforcement or execution of a state statute,
or in the enforcement or execution of an order made by an administrative board or commission, is a requirement of substance, not

574

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

306 U. S.

of form, and it is not satisfied by joining, as nominal parties defendant, state officers whose action is not the effective means of the
enforcement or execution of the challenged statute or order. P. 579.
2. The extraordinary procedure before a ecoirt of three judges, designed
for a specific class of cases sharply defined by the statute, can not
properly be extended to cases in which there is no substantial basis
for relief by injunction restraining the action of state officers in
enforcing or carrying into effect a challenged state statute of general
application. P. 582.
3. The New Jersey Municipal Finance Commission Act, as amended,
provides a scheme for the management of the affairs of any municipality found by the state supreme court to be unable to meet its
obligations when due by a commission composed of state officers
acting in conjunction with the municipal authorities. The Act
provides that, where the Commission shall function in any municipality or coterminous school district, all suits to recover upon school
bonds, and execution on judgments in such suits, shall be stayed, except when such proceedings may be authorized by the state supreme
court under conditions calculated to secure equality to all creditors.
Also, the governing body of a district in which the Commission is
functioning is authorized to compromise delinquent taxes, except
claims in excess of $500, which may not be compromised without the
written assent of the Commission. Assailing the stay and compromise provision of the Act as violative of the contract clause of the
Federal Constitution, a creditor who had recovered a judgment on
previously acquired school bonds brought suit to restrain the Commission from functioning in the municipality and from assenting to
the compromise of delinquent taxes due the municipality* and to
restrain the local tax collector from carrying into effect any such
compromise. Held:
(1) The suit was not maintainable under Judicial Code § 266,
and this Court was without jurisdiction of a direct appeal thereunder. P. 582.
(2) As the prescribed stay becomes effective by virtue of the
statute whenever the state supreme court finds that the municipality
is unable to meet its obligations, the Commission is without power
to grant or withhold a stay, there is no occasion to enjoin action of
the Commission as the means of preventing operation of the stay
provision and the suit so far as it seeks to set them aside is not
required by § 266 to be tried by a court of three judges. P. 580.
(3) The Commission is similarly without authority to enforce
provisions of the statute authorizing municipal authorities to com-

WILENTZ v. SOVEREIGN CAMP.
573

574A

Argument for Appellants.

promise delinquent taxes, and to consent to a compromise which it
can not command is not an "order" within the meaning of § 266.
P. 580.
(4) The injunction sought to restrain the Commission from assenting to compromises of delinquent taxes arranged and to be carried
into effect by local officers is but incidental to the purpose of the
suit to prevent the performance by local officers of a local function,
and such a suit is not to be brought within the purview of § 266
by the expedient of adding as nominal parties the members of the
Commission who are state officers but whose presence is not necessary to prevent operation of the challenged statute, and whose only
action is the approval of that of local officers to be taken under the
statute. P. 581.
4. Although without jurisdiction to hear the merits of the appeal
under § 266, this Court in the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction
may give directions appropriate to enforce the limitations of that
section; and where the appellants have already taken an 'appeal
from the decree below to the Circuit Court of Appeals, their remedy
will be preserved by simply dismissing the appeal taken to this
Court. P. 582.
23 F. Supp. 23, appeal dismissed.

APPEAL from a decree of the district court of three judges
holding a state statute unconstitutional and granting relief by injunction against certain public officers acting
pursuant to it.
Mr. E. J. Dimock, with whom Messrs. William A. Stevens, S. Lewis Davis, and Frank T. Lloyd were on the brief,

for appellants.
Even if the stay provisions and the provisions for acceptance of bonds in payment of taxes were unconstitu-

tional, the three-judge court was without jurisdiction
because no substantial case was made out for an injunction against state officers in the enforcement of such

provisions.
If there was any reason for asking an injunction against

Lhe Municipal Finance Commission, which can merely consent to compromises, there would be much greater reason

for seeking an injunction against the body which arranges

574B

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Argument for Appellee.

306 U. S.

the compromises. An injunction against the Commission's consenting to that practice would add nothing. The
Commission is, therefore, a completely unnecessary party
in this proceeding and its presence in the case as the
object of a prayer for an injunction against its consenting
to bond settlements should not have availed to oust the
one-judge district court of jurisdiction.
It is settled that a mere nominal joinder of state officials
as defendants in a case where the substantial relief sought
is an injunction against local officials does not require
the convening of a three-judge court. Pleasant v. Missouri-Kansas-Texas Ry., 66 F. 2d 842; certiorari denied
291 U. S. 659.
Messrs. David M. Wood and Arthur T. Vanderbilt for
appellee.
Respecting the stay provisions of the statute, appellants assume that, because the injunction granted was
narrower than the prayer, the court lost all jurisdiction
of the.case, despite the presence of the essential jurisdictional elements in the complaint. It is definitely established that' a three-judge court once having obtained
jurisdiction by the presence of a substantial federal question, can give relief upon a non-constitutional ground or
rest its decision solely on the basis of a local issue, without even passing upon the federal questions. Louisville
& N. R. Co. v. Garrett, 231. U. S. 298; Davis v. Wallace,
257 U. S. 478; Sterling v. Constantin, 287 U. S. 378;
Glenn v. Field Packing Co., 290 U. S. 177; Lee v. Bickell,
292 U. S. 145; Railroad Commission v. Pacific Gas &
Electric Co., 302 U. S. 388.
The consent of the Commission is vital to the compromise of taxes and acceptance of bonds in payment thereof.
By enjoining them from assenting on the ground of unconstitutionality of the statute and action thereunder, the

WILENTZ v. SOVEREIGN CAMP.
573

Opinion of the Court.

unlawful practice is stopped at the proper place-the
spot where the ultimate authority lies. In fact, if any
party might be omitted from the injunction, it would be
the tax collector and not the Commission, for he may only
act after the latter has approved. Norfolk & Western
Ry. Co. v. Boardof Public Works, 3 F. Supp. 791.
MR.

JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The question is whether we have jurisdiction to consider the merits of this appeal taken under § 266 of the
Judicial Code directly to this Court from the decree of a
district court of three judges.
Appellee brought the present suit in equity in the District Court for the District of New Jersey, praying a
declaratory decree against the validity of certain provisions of the New Jersey Municipal Finance Commission
Act, c. 340, New Jersey Laws of 1931, as amended, and
an injunction restraining state and municipal officers
from acting pursuant to the Commission Act, on the
ground that it impairs the obligation of contract in violation of the federal Constitution by depriving appellee of
the remedies existing when the contracts were entered
into. The Commission Act provides an elaborate scheme
for the control and management of the affairs of any municipality, found by the Supreme Court to be unable to
meet its obligations when due, by a commission composed of state officers acting in conjunction with the local
municipal authorities. The Act, in its amended form,
appears in Title 52, c. 27, §§ 1 to 66, inclusive, c. 24,
§ 19.1, c. 14, § 32, Title 1, c. 1, § 10, Revised Statutes of
New Jersey, 1937.
Appellants, members of the Municipal Finance Commission, and the other appellants, 'members of the Board
of Assessors of the Borough of Runnemede, a New Jersey
municipal corporation, and its Tax Collector, were joined
13309639-37

576

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

as defendants. Decision on an application for an interlocutory injunction, presented to. the district court of
three judges assembled pursuant to § 266 of the Judicial
Code, and also on a motion of appellants to remit the
case to a single district judge, was reserved, and the court,
after hearing, rendered its final decree sustaining appellants' contention that the challenged statute was unconstitutional and granting relief by injunction against all
the appellants. The case comes here on appeal under
§§ 238 and 266 of the Judicial Code. 28 U. S. C. §§ 345,
380.
Appellants press here the objection made below that
the case is not one for a court of three judges as prescribed by § 266 of the Judicial Code, and that consequently this Court is without jurisdiction to pass on the
merits of the appeal taken directly from the district court,
a contention which requires our consideration of the nature of the cause of action and of the relief sought and
awarded. See Oklahoma Gas & Electric Co. v. Oklahoma
Packing Co., 292 U. S. 386.
The bill of complaint states that appellee, a fraternal
benefit life insurance association, organized under the laws
of Nebraska, purchased on June 1, 1930, school bonds
issued by the Board of Education of the Borodgh of
Runnemede, which is coterminous with the school district
of Runnemede; that default having occurred in the payment of principal and interest on the bonds remaining
unpaid, appellee brought suit upon them in a federal
court and on December 5, 1935, recovered a judgment
against the Board of Education in the sum of $21,776.21,
execution upon which was returned unsatisfied; and that
appellee then began in the federal district court for New
Jersey a suit for mandamus, which is still pending undecided, to compel the proper officers of the Borough to
assess and collect taxes for payment of appellee's judgment.

WILENTZ v. SOVEREIGN CAMP.
573

Opinion of the Cour,

The bill of complaint further alleges that appellee's
contract, acquired by the purchase of the bonds, has been
impaired in violation of the contract clause of the Constitution (Art. I, § 10) by the later enaetment of c. 195,
and § 17 of c. 258, New Jersey Laws of 1935, which extended the stay provisions of the State Municipal Finance
Commission Act (§§ 351, 352, 354, Municipal Finance
Commission Act, as amended by §§ 8, 9, c. 330, New
Jersey Laws of 1933, c. 191, New Jersey Laws of 1935)
to a school district whenever the Commission shall function in a municipality which is coterminous with the
school district. In that event § 17 stays suits and proceedings for recovery on school bonds of the municipality
and stays execution on judgments in such suits, except
that the Supreme Court or one. of its justices is given discretionary power on application, prescribed by the statute,
to authorize the suit to proceed, or execution to issue,
under conditions calculated to secure equality of treatment of all creditors.
Section 103 of the Municipal Finance Act provides that
upon petition of a municipality showing that it "is not
in a position to meet its obligations when due," a justice
of the Supreme Court is authorized to make an order to
that effect, whereupon the "commission shall function"
in that municipality "with all the powers and duties conferred by this act." It is ali-ged in the bill of complaint,
and was found below, that a justice of the Supreme Court
had determined that the Borough of Runnemede was unable to meet its obligations and that the Commission,
pursuant to the statute, then commenced to function and
has since functioned in the Borough and in its coterminous school district.
As a further impairment of appellee's contract the bill
of complaint alleges that in 1930, when the school district
bonds were issued, the statutes of New Jersey provided

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U.S.

that taxes levied on property within the state should be
paid only in lawful money of the United States, but that
§ 6 of c. 330 of the New Jersey Laws of 1933 authorizes
the governing body of a municipality in which the Commission is functioning to compromise and adjust delinquent taxes due the municipality, except claims for taxes
in excess of $500, which may not be so compromised
without the written assent of the Commission; that acting under these provisions the Commission has given its
written assent to compromises previously authorized by
the Runnemede Borough Council, whereby bonds were
received in payment of taxes due the Borough in excess
of $500, thus impairing the security and obligation of
appellee's bonds.
The bill of complaint prays a judicial declaration that
appellee's right to compel a levy and collection of taxes
for the satisfaction of its judgment is governed by § 35
of the Execution Act of New Jersey, 2 Comp. Stat. of
New Jersey, p. 2255, and § 237 of the School Law of New
Jersey, 4 Comp. Stat. of New Jersey, p. 4804, in force in
1930, when the school bonds were issued; that the statutes assailed, c. 330, New Jersey Law- of 1933, cs. 195
and 258, New Jersey Laws of 1935, all as amended and
supplemented, be declared unconstitutional and void as
infringing, the contract clause; that the Commission be
enjoined from functioning in the Borough of Runnemede
and from assenting to the compromise of delinquent taxes
of the Borough for any sum less than the full amount due,
and that appellant Tax Collector be enjoined from carrying into effect any such compromise; that appellants, the
Borough's Assessors and its Tax Collector, be enjoined
from assessing and collecting taxes for the year 1936 without including in them the amount of appellee's judgment.
The trial court sustained the allegations of the bill by
its findings and granted the relief prayed, except that it
declined to enjoin any action by the Assessors and Col-

WILENTZ v. SOVEREIGN CAMP.
573

Opinion of the Court.

lector with respect to the assessment and collection -of
1936 taxes. In enjoining the Commission from functioning in the Borough the court directed that its decree
should be "without prejudice to any of the powers or
duties of the Municipal Finance Commission under the
Municipal Finance Commission Act except as the stays
therein contained affect the right of the complainant to
enforce its judgment." The decree in its practical operation thus enjoined no action by the Commission and
amounted to no more than a declaration that the stay
provisions of the challenged statute were invalid and
unenforceable.
By § 266 of the Judicial Code, a suit in which application is made and pressed for an interlocutory injunction
"restraining the enforcement, operation, or execution of
any statute of a State by restraining the action of any
officer of such State in the enforcement or execution of
such statute, or in the enforcement or execution of an
order made by an administrative board or commission"
is required to be heard by a court of three judges constituted as the section prescribes. The section also declares that "a direct appeal to the Supreme Court may be
taken from a final decree granting or denymig a permanent injunction in such suit." Our jurisdiction to hear
the appeal on the merits, which is now challenged, turns
upon the question whether the present is "such suit."
The reasons for the adoption of the extraordinary procedure prescribed by § 266 of the Judicial Code in the
class of cases defined by it, and the rule that it may be
invoked only when the suit is one to restrain state officers,
have often been pointed out. Ex parte Collins, 277 U. S.
565; Ex partePublic NationalBank, 278 U. S. 101; Stratton v. St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co., 282 U. S. 10; Oklahoma Gas & Electric Co. v. Oklahoma Packing Co., supra.
This requirement is one of substance, not of form, and it
is not satisfied by joining, as nominal parties defendant,

580

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

state officers whose action is not the effective means of
the enforcement or execution of the challenged statute.
See Oklahoma Gas & Electric Co. v. Oklahoma Packing
Co., supra, 391.
By its terms § 266 embraces only those cases in which
an interlocutory injunction is sought to prevent the
operation of a tate statute "by restraining the action"
of a state officer "in the enforcement or execution of such
statute." Here it appears on the face of the bill of complaint, and from the findings, that the statutes assailed
as unconstitutional are those prescribing a stay of suit
or executiQn against any municipality and its coterminous
school district in which the commission is functioning,
and also the statute which permits a compromise of delinquent taxes by such a municipality and school district.
The only state officers against whom an injunction is
sought are the members of the Commission. But they
are clothed with no authority to enforce the challenged
statutes and have taken no steps to enforce them. The
stays prescribed by the statute become effective with respect to any particular municipality by virtue of other
statutory provisions whenever the state Supreme Court
finds that the municipality is unable to meet its obligations. The order of the Supreme Court promulgating its
finding is the decisive action which calls the stay provisions into operation, and when that action is taken the
statute becomes self-executing. The Commission is thus
without power to grant or withhold a stay, and as the
form of the decree, already noted, shows, there is no
occasion to enjoin action by the Commission as the means
of preventing operation of the stay provisions.
The Commission is similarly without authority to enforce the provisions of the Act of 1933, authorizing the
compromise of delinquent taxes. Its written assent, prerequisite to execution of a compromise which the Commission cannot command, is not an order within the

WILENTZ v. SOVEREIGN CAMP.
573

Opinion of the Court.

meaning of § 266. Great Northern Ry. Co. v. United
States, 277 U. S. 172. The Borough Council, whose
members are not state officers and are not parties to the
present suit, is the exclusive agency for arranging the
compromise. The effective agent for carrying the statute
into execution is appellant Borough Tax Collector, who
is not a state officer. The functions which the Council
and the Collector perform, affecting the collection of taxes
for payment of the local school district bonds, are not
state, but local functions, and a suit for an injunction restraining such action by local officers is not within § 266.
Ex parte Collins, supra; Ex parte Public National Bank
of New York, supra; cf. Spielman Motor Co. v. Dodge,
295 U. S. 89.
Even though the written assent of the Commission,
without which there can be no compromise of tax claims
in excess of $500, be said to be action in "execution" of
the statute, we think this case is not one for a court of
three judges, because the injunction sought against the
Commission is but incidental to the sole purpose of the
suit to prevent the performance by local officers of a local
function. The members of the Commission are not
necessary parties to the suit, and there is no occasion for
relief against 'them in addition to that sought against the
Collector. The Commission, in the performance of its
statutory duty, acts only to approve the exercise by local
officers of an authority conferred on them as such. A
suit to restrain the latter from carrying into execution a
state statute by performance of the local function which
it authorizes is not to be brought within the purview of
§ 266 by the expedient of adding as nominal parties state
officers whose presence is not necessary to prevent the
operation of the challenged tatute and whose only action
is the approval of that of local officers to be taken under
it. In such circumstances their presence in the suit
generates no interest which it is the purpose of § 266 to

OCTOBER TERM. 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

protect and must be regarded as colorable only for the
purpose of securing the advantages of proceeding before
a court of three judges, as was the presence of the state
officers in Oklahoma Gas & Electric Co. v. Oklahoma
Packing Co., supra, where it was held that there was no
appeal under § 266.
The extraordinary procedure before a court of three
judges, designed for a specific class of cases sharply defined by the statute, cannot properly be extended to cases
in which there is no substantial basis for relief by injunction restraining the action of state officers in enforcing
or carrying into effect a challenged state statute of general application. Ex parte Collins, supra; Oklahoma
Gas & Electric Co. v. Oklahoma Packing Co., supra, 391.
Here the issue is not one -of jurisdiction of the district
court as a federal court, see Ex parte Poresky, 290 U. S.
30, 31; Healy v. Ratta, 292 U. S. 263, but is whether a
final hearing by three judges is prescribed by the section
and hence whether this Court has jurisdiction to hear the
appeal. Smith v. Wilson, 273 U. S. 388. As the case
was not one for which a court of three judges is prescribed by § 266, no appeal lies to this Court and it is
without jurisdiction to hear the merits of the appeal.
In the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction, this Court
has authority to give such directions as may be appropriate to enforce the limitations of § 266, and may frame
its mandate in such manner as will save to appellants
their appropriate remedy by appeal to the proper court.
Oklahoma Gas & Electric Co. v. Oklahoma Packing Co.,
supra; Gully v. InterstateNatural Gas Co., 292 U. S. 16.
But as is indicated by the briefs, appellants have already
taken an appeal from the decree below to the Court of
Appeals for the Third Circuit, and it thus appears that
their remedy will be preserved by dismissing the appeal
to this Court without more.
The appeal will be dismissed with costs to appellants.
See Mansfield, C. & L. M. Ry. Co. v. Swan, 111 U. S. 379,

CLARK v. PAUL GRAY, INC.
573

Syllabus.

387; Oklahoma Gas & Electric Co. v. Oklahoma Packing
Co., supra.

Appeal dismissed.
CLARK, DIRECTOR OF DEPARTMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES, ET AL. v. PAUL GRAY, INC.
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 534. Argued March 27, 1939.-Decided April 17, 1939.
1. The Court raises sua sponte the question whether jurisdictional
amounts were in controversy in the District Court. P. 588.
2. When several plaintiffs assert separate and distinct demands in a
single suit, the amounts involved can not be added together to satisfy jurisdictional requirements; jurisdiction as to each separate
controversy depends upon the amount involved in that controversy.
P. 589.
3. When several plaintiffs assert separate and distinct demands in one
suit, a general allegation in the bill that the amount involved in the
litigation is in excess of $3,000 and a finding of the District Court
that the amount involved in the suit exceeds the jurisdictional
amount, give no indication that the amount in controversy with
respect to the claim of any single plaintiff exceeds the jurisdictional
amount, and are insufficient to show that the District Court had
jurisdiction of the cause. P. 589.
4. The amount in controversy in a suit to restrain illegal imposition
of fees or taxes is the amount of the fees and" taxes which would
normally be collected during the period of the litigation. P. 589.
5. The question whether the jurisdictional amount was involved in
the District Court is determined by the record of that court, which
can not be supplemented by affidavits filed in this Court. P. 590.
6. A suit by several plaintiffs, each bound to establish the jurisdictional
amount with respect to his own claim, should,be dismissed as to
those who fail to do so. P. 590.
7. The States have constitutional authority to exact reasonable fees
for the use of their highways by vehicles moving interstate; and
for that purpose they may classify the vehicles according to the
character of the traffic and the burden it imposes on the State by

