324

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

306 U. S.

If a reorganization is effected the amount at which
Standard's claim is allowed is not important if it is to be
represented by stock in the new company, provided the
stock to be awarded it is subordinated to that awarded
preferred stockholders. No plan ought to be approved
which does not accord the preferred stockholders a right
of participation in the equity in the Company's assets
prior to that of Standard, and at least equal voice with
Standard in the management. Anything less would be to
remand them to precisely the status which has inflicted
serious detriment on them in the past.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER took no part in the consid-

eration or decision of this case.
UNITED STATES v. TOWERY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 360. Argued January 31, 1939.-Decided February 27, 1939.
1. Benefits payable to the insured under a war risk term insurance
contract on account of total and permanent disability do not cease
after 240 monthly installments, but are continued for life if the
disability lasts so long. P. 328.
2. Section 19 of the World War Veterans' Act of 1924, as amended
by Act of July 3, 1930, bars suits on yearly renewable term insurance unless brought "within six years after the right accrued for
which the claim is made," or within one year after the date of the
amendatory Act, whichever is the later date; and provides that
for the purposes of the section "it shall be deemed that the right
accrued on the happening of the contingency on which the claim is
founded." Held, there is but one "right" contemplated by the
section, namely, the right to benefit payments; and but one critical
"contingency" which conditions that right, namely, the occurrence
of permanent total disability or death while the policy remains
in force. Pp. 329, 331.

UNITED STATES v. TOWERY.
324

Argument for the United States.

Congress did not intend to accord each of the claimants of possible benefits under the policy six years from the time any installment or lump sum payment fell due within which to bring suit.
The interest of a beneficiary under the policy is derivative from
that of the veteran.
The purpose of the 1930 amendment of § 19 was to substitute a
uniform rule of limitation for suits on contracts of war risk
:nsurance in lieu of the periods prescribed by the state statutes,
which, pursuant to the Conformity Act, had theretofore been
applied, and which periods varied from three to twenty years.
3. Insured under policies of war risk term insurance was discharged
from military service in 1919; paid no further premiums; and died
in 1927. Alleging the occurrence of disability on the date of discharge, claim was made in 1932 for disability and death benefits
and denied by the Veterans Administration in i935. Suit was
instituted in 1936. Held, barred by limitations. Pp. 326, 329.
97 F. 2d 906, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

305 U. S. 588, to review the reversal of a

judgment dismissing a suit upon two policies of war risk
term insurance.
Mr. Wilbur C. Pickett, with whom Solicitor General
Jackson, and, Messrs. Julius C. Martin, Fendall Marbury,

and W. Marvin Smith were on the brief, for the United
States.

The six-year limitation began to run against the suit
to recover installments of total permanent disability benefits under a contract of war risk term inzurance not on
the date as of which each installment of such benefits
accrued, but as of a date not later than the last day
the insurance was in force by premium payments.
The same limitation provision began to run against the
suit of the respondent as the beneficiary not upon the date
of the insured's death, at a time when the policy was not
in force by premium payments, but as of a date not later
than the last day the insurance was in force by premium
payments.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of thq Court.

306 U. S.

Mr. Edward H. S. Martin for respondent.
Six year limitation as to claim of beneficiary runs only
from death of insured, not from happening of total permanent disability.
A separate six year limitation as to each installment
of total permanent disability benefits runs only from the
due date of such installment.
As all installments maturing on or after October 3,
1926, were recoverable free from the limitation bar, the
reversal of the District Court judgnent was proper.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case turns upon the proper construction' of the
limitation provision of § 19 of the World War Veterans
Act of 1924, as amended.'
The respondent brought an action in the District C6urt
for Northern Illinois in his own right and as administrator of Robert C. Towery, deceased, upon claims on two
war risk insurance term policies issued to the decedent
while in the military service of the United States. The
claim of respondent as administrator was for total permanent disability benefits alleged to have accrued to the
insured in his lifetime, and the claim as beneficiary designated in the policies was based upon the death of the
insured. The complaint alleged that the premiums were
deducted from the insured's pay during his military service, from which he was discharged June 18, 1919; that
he became totally and permanently disabled, while the
policies were in force, on June 18, 1919; that he died
April 22, 1927; that, on May 2, 1927, respondent was
appointed administrator; that, on February 11, 1932,
respondent made claim for disability and death benefits
1

Act of June 7, 1924, c. 320, § 19, 43 Stat. 612, as amended by Act

of July 3, 1930, c. 849, 46 Stat. 992; U. S. C. Tit. 38, § 445.

UNITED STATES v. TOWERY.
324

Opinion of the Court.

under the policies; that the claim was denied by the Veterans Administration August 8, 1935. Suit was instituted June 29, 1936. The Government moved to dismiss
on the ground that the action was barred by limitation.
The District Court granted the motion and gave judgment for the Government. On appeal the Circuit Court
of Appeals reversed.' We granted certiorari because of
alleged conflict of decision.'
Section 19 provides that, in the event of a disagreement between the veteran and the Bureau as to a claim
under a policy, the claimant may bring an action in the
District Court to obtain a decision of the controversy.
The statute then proceeds:
"No suit on yearly renewable term insurance shall be
allowed under this section unless the same shall have
been brought within six years after the right accrued for
which the claim is made or within one year after the
date of approval of this amendatory Act, whichever is
the later date, . . . Provided, That for the purposes of
this section it shall be deemed that the right accrued
on the happening of the contingency on which the claim
is founded: Proidedfurther, That this limitation is suspended for the period elapsing between the filing in the
bureau of the claim sued upon and the denial of said
claim by the director. ...
The Circuit Court of Appeals held that the "contingency," on the happening of which "the right accrued
for which the claim is made," is not defined by the statute and must be ascertained from the policy provisions.
In the light of these provisions the court held that, in
the case of a claim for benefits payable to the insured,
the contingency is the accrual of an installment and, in
the case of a claim by a beneficiary, the contingency is
the death of the insured.
297 F. 2d 906.

See United States v. Tarrer, 77 F. 2d 423.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

The policy, while for a stated amount, calls for payment in monthly installments, two hundred and forty of
which (interest being calculated at three and one-half
per cent.) would equal the principal sum. Contrary to
the view of the court below, disability benefits to the
insured do not cease at the expiration of two hundred
and forty months but are continued for life if the disability so long lasts.' Should the insured die, however,
prior to the payment of two hundred and forty installments, further installments up to the limit of two hundred and forty are payable to his beneficiary. Should the
beneficiary die before the receipt of all the remaining
instalien'ts up to two hundred and forty, the commuted value of the unpaid installments is payable to the
estate of the insured in one sum.' The court below
reached its conclusion as to the meaning of the Act,
first, by examination of the phrase "within six years
after the right accrued for which the claim is made."
In the view that, in case of the death of the insured, the
beneficiary has a "right" for which a clam may be made
and that, prior to the death of the insured, the latter also
has a "right," namely, to receive each monthly benefit
installment, the court concluded that there were two
rights. If this be the correct view there is still a third
"right,"-that of the administrator of the insured to claim
a lump sum commuted value for installments unpaid to
the beneficiary at the date of the latter's death. The
court then addressed itself to the meaning of the word
"contingency" in the first proviso of the section: "it shall
be deemed that the right accrued on the happening of the
'Act of Oct. 6, 1917, c. 105, § 402, 40 Stat. 398, 409. Bulletin
No. 3 Treasury Department, October 16, 1917. Regulations and
Procedure U. S. Veterans Bureau 1930, Part II, pp. 1241, 1258, 1259.
'World War Veterans Act, 1924, as amended, U. S. C. Tit. 38,
§ 514; McCullough v. Smith, 293 U. S. 228.

UNITED STATES v. TOWERY.
324

329

Opinion of the Court.

contingency on which the claim is founded." The couit
held that, in the case of a disabled veteran, at least two
contingencies must occur before the right to any monthly
benefit accrued,-namely, the occurrence of permanent
disability while the policy was in force and the existence
of the disability at the date for which a particular monthly
payment is claimed. In the case of a beneficiary, the
court was of opinion that another contingency must be
added, namely, the death of the insured. It made the
choice from these possible alternatives by holding that
the right accrued in the case of a living insured on the
date when each monthly benefit payment became due
and, in the case of a benficiary, when the insured died.
This construction is said to comport with the liberal policy
of Congress towards veterans and to be supported by the
fact that an alternative period of one year from the date
of the passage of the statute was accorded by Congress.
The court viewed the six year period as a liberalizing
alternative to the one year period, and, therefore, held
the claim of the respondent, as beneficiary, was timely
because suit had been. instituted within the six year
period as enlarged by the duration of the Veterans Administration's consideration. The claim, as administrator,
for installments accruing in the life of the insured, was
held maintainable for such installments as accrued due
within six years (plus the additional time allowed for
administrative consideration) prior to the institution of
suit. We are unable to adopt this construction of the
statute.
Section 19 plainly intends to put a time limitation
upon the institution of suit, whereas, the' decision of the
court below would provide no such limitation upon
suits by veterans for total permanent disability- benefits,
but simply a limitation on the number of installments
recoverable; and, in application to disability cases, would

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

preclude only a recovery of certain installments whereas
new suits might be brought thereafter by veterans, if
living, in cases in which prior suits had been held barred.
We think the legislation and the. policy do not confer
two rights. The beneficiary's interest in the policy is
derivative from that of the veteran. It may be taken
away by legislation, even after the death of the insured.'
There are different events upon the happening of which
the payment of benefits to the veteran or to his beneficiaries or to his estate depend. We think it highly
unlikely that Congress intended to accord each of the
claimants xf possible benefits under the policy six years
from the time any installment or lump sum payment
fell due within which to bring suit.
Millions of veterans all6wed their yearly convertible
term insurance to lapse when they left the Service.7
Congress provided that if, at the time of the lapse, the
veteran was totally and permanently disabled he might
recover notwithstanding he had not made immediate and
timely claim. Section 19 of the Act of 1930 was an
amendment of an earlier act. The statute Was undoubtedly intended as one of repose. The purpose of
its adoption, as shown by the Committee Reports,' was
to substitute a uniform rule of limitation for suits on
contracts of insurance in lieu of the state statutes, which,
pursuant to the Conformity Act, had theretofore been
applied. These varied as respects the period prescribed
from three to twenty years. As the reports show, the additional year from the date of the passage of the Act was
granted to prevent the hardship of cutting off claims
which would have been barred by the six year limitation
White v. United States, 270 U. S. 175.
'Lynch t. United States, 292 U. S. 571, 576.
House Committee Report No. 1274, 70th Congress, First Session,
p. 1. Senate Committee Report No. 1297, 70th Congress', First
Session, p. 1.

UNITED STATES v. TOWERY.
324

Opinion of the Court.

at the date of the Act. A reading of the section as a whole
is persuasive that what Congress intended by "the contingency upon which the claim is founded" was the
contingency on which liability under the policy was
bottomed, namely,-permanent disability or death while
thc, policy remained in force.
The construction adopted by the court below would
permit the bringing of suits even twenty years after the
disability occurred. It is obvious that each year ascertainment of the essential facts which conditioned liability
would become more difficult. We think then that, reasonably construed, the section provides that there shall
be but one right,-that is, the right to benefit payments,
and but one critical contingency which conditions that
right, namely, the occurrence of permanent total disability
or death while the policy remains in force.
All the other contingencies referred to by the court below, which condition actual payment of the benefits to
one person or another, are of minor importance. They
are not matters with respect to which disagreement with
the Veterans Administration is likely.
Two objections are raised by the respondent to this
construction of the section. First, it is said that if suit is
brought on a policy and judgment recovered that judgment is only for the installments which have theretofore
fallen due and that if the Government should fail to pay
subsequently accruing installments these might, under
our ruling, be barred by the six year limitation. We have
said: ' "Undoubtedly, when one's right to recover is established by judgment, the Veterans' Bureau will pay him
installments maturing in his favor after the commencement of the action." This has been the consistent administrative practice. Indeed the Bureau has treated a
judgment for installments due the veteran as requiring,
'United States v. Worley, 281 U. S. 339, 341.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

306 U. S.

without further claim, the payment of remaining installments due the beneficiary after his death."' The other
objection is that, as benefit payments cease on the cessation of the disability, the Veterans Administration may
refuse further payments on that ground and, if the insured disagrees with the Bureau's ruling, a suit to test
its validity may be barred. The answer is that, under the
policy's terms and the administrative rulings, the policy
is automatically reinstated for a reduced sum after taking
accou nt of the prior payment of benefits and may be continued in force by the insured by the payment of future
premiums." If he contends that when the policy is thus
reinstated he is still permanently and totally disabled,
he has the full six years granted by the statute in which
to litigate the claim since, if he can establish his contention, he would have been totally and permanently disabled at a time when the policy was in force.
The judgment is
Reversed.
NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v. SANDS
MANUFACTURING CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 274. Argued January 12, 1939.-Decided February 27, 1939.

1. Findings of the National Labor Relations Board that respondent,
in violation of § 8 (5) of the Labor Relations Act, had refused to
bargain collectively with the representatives of its employees;
had discriminated in regard to hire and tenure of employment and
discouraged membership in a labor organization, in violation of
§ 8.(3); and, in violation of § 8 (1), had interfered with, restrained,
and coerced its employees in the exercise of the right of self" Letter of Solicitor of Veterans Administration, February 8, 1938.
"Veterans' Administration Regulations R. 3141-3143.

