OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

306 U. S.

without further claim, the payment of remaining installments due the beneficiary after his death."' The other
objection is that, as benefit payments cease on the cessation of the disability, the Veterans Administration may
refuse further payments on that ground and, if the insured disagrees with the Bureau's ruling, a suit to test
its validity may be barred. The answer is that, under the
policy's terms and the administrative rulings, the policy
is automatically reinstated for a reduced sum after taking
accou nt of the prior payment of benefits and may be continued in force by the insured by the payment of future
premiums." If he contends that when the policy is thus
reinstated he is still permanently and totally disabled,
he has the full six years granted by the statute in which
to litigate the claim since, if he can establish his contention, he would have been totally and permanently disabled at a time when the policy was in force.
The judgment is
Reversed.
NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v. SANDS
MANUFACTURING CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 274. Argued January 12, 1939.-Decided February 27, 1939.

1. Findings of the National Labor Relations Board that respondent,
in violation of § 8 (5) of the Labor Relations Act, had refused to
bargain collectively with the representatives of its employees;
had discriminated in regard to hire and tenure of employment and
discouraged membership in a labor organization, in violation of
§ 8.(3); and, in violation of § 8 (1), had interfered with, restrained,
and coerced its employees in the exercise of the right of self" Letter of Solicitor of Veterans Administration, February 8, 1938.
"Veterans' Administration Regulations R. 3141-3143.

LABOR BOARD v. SANDS MFG. CO.
332

Statement of the Case.

organization, affiliation with labor organizations and collective
bargaining as guaranteed by § 7-held unsupported by the evidence.
P. 339.
2. Also unsupported by the evidence was the Board's ultimate conclusion that respondent's conduct permitted no reasonable inference
other than that its employees were locked out, discharged, and
refused employment because they were members of a particular
labor organization and had engaged in concerted activities for the
purpose of collective bargaining. P. 339.
3. Respondent had a contract with a labor organization of its employees which gave it the right to operate its plant on the basis of
"departmental seniority." In violation of the agreement, the labor
organization subsequently demanded that respondent abandon "departmental seniority" o4 shut down its plant. Respondent chose the
latter course. At the time of the closing of the plant, no further
negotiations between the parties were pending, each had rejected
the other's proposals, and there were no arrangements for any
further meeting.
Held that, in these circumstances, respondent was free to treat
the employees as having severed their relationship, and to consummate the separation by hiring others to take their places. The
Act does not forbid the discharge of an employee for repudiation
of his agreement. P. 344.
4. Respondent's offer to redmploy four men as foremen on terms
which might have formed a basis of compromise had similar offers
been made to all of the men, did not support the Board's finding
of a refusal to bargain collectively with the union. P. 344.
5. Having the right to employ others to take the places of the discharged employees, respondent had the right also to contract with
another union for the services of the new men. P. 345.
6. Nor was respondent precluded from making individual contracts
for the reemployment of some of its discharged employees. P. 345.
7. The contention that respondent's offer of reemployment to two of
its old men on condition that they join the other union was a
violation of § 8 (3) of the Act, held irrelevant to any issue in this
case. P. 346.
96 F. 2d 721, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 305 U. S. 586, to review a judgment denying a petition of the Labor Board for enforcement of an
order and setting.the order aside.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

Mr. Charles A. Horsky, with whom Solicitor General
Jackson, and Messrs. Charles Fahy, Robert B. Watts,
Laureiice A. Knapp, and Mortimer B. Wolf were on the
brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Harry E. Smoyer, with whom Mr. Welles K.
Stanley was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals denied the petition of the
National Labor Relations Board for enforcement of an
order against the respondent and granted the respondent's
petition to set aside the order.' We issued the writ of
certiorari because of alleged conflict.After complaint, answer, and hearing, the Board found
that the respondent, an Ohio corporation which manufactures water heaters in Cleveland, had engaged, and
continued to engage, in unfair labor practices as defined
by § 8, subsections (1), (3), and (5) of the National Labor
Relations Act,' and ordered the company to cease and
desist from violating those provisions and to offer reinstatement to former employes with compensation for loss
of wages from September 3, 1935.'
The respondint contends and the court below held that
upon the findings of fact, and the uncontradicted evidence, the Board's conclusions are without support in the
record. The petitioner insists that there is evidence to
support them. From the findings, and the uncontradicted evidence, these facts appear: In the spring of 1934
'96 F. 2d 721.

'See Jeijery-DeWitt Insulator Co. v. National Labor Relations
Board, 91 F. 2d 134.
'Act of July 5, 1935, c. 372, 49 Stat. 449, 452; U. S. C. Supp. III,
Tit. 29, § 158.
'1 N. L. R. B. 546.

LABOR BOARD v. SANDS MFG. CO.
332

Opinion of the Court.

most of respondent's employes joined the Mechanics Educational Society of America (hereinafter called "Mesa"),
an independent labor organization. The respondent
manifested no opposition to their so doing, expressed its
willingness that its men join any organization they chose,
and readily met with a shop committee of the union to
discuss grievances and working conditions. An agreement effecting an increase of wages, and affecting working conditions, was entered into between the respondent
and the union. Although limited in term to sixty days
it was continued, by mutual agreement, and under it all
matters of controversy between employer and employes
were settled by conference between the shop committee
of the union and officials of the company.
In May 1935 the committee demanded, and the company refused, an increase of wages. A strike was called,
but negotiations went on between the company and the
union. All differences were adjusted save that the company was unwilling to reinstate certain men alleged to
be incompetent. The union insisted that these men be
taken.back and thereafter be. afforded a hearing by the
management and the shop committee. When, work was
resumed the company did not permit the men in question
to return. Thereupon a second strike was called. Negotiations again ensued as a result of which the shop
committee agreed to draft and submit a contract to the
respondent. This was done. The management demanded certain changes in the draft, to which the committee agreed; a contract extending to March 1, 1936,
was executed on June 15, 1935, and the men returned
to work. The agreement provided that the company
would recognize the shop committee as representing the
employes for collective bargaining; that no employe
should be discharged without a hearing before the shop
committee and the management; that certain employes
shoild be discharged and not rehired; that stipulated

336

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

notice should be given of layoffs due to shortage of work;
that new employes might join any labor organization
they chose. It also covered wages and hours of work.
It further provided: "In case of a misunderstanding between the management and the employes, the committee
shall allow the management forty-eight hours to settle
the dispute and, if then unsuccessful, the committee shall
act as they see fit." Provisions as to seniority will be
presently stated.
In :1934 the company had an opportunity to procure
a government order. Its officers conferred with the men
and stated that they would take the government order
if assured that no labor trouble would interfere with its
execution. On receiving this assurance the order was
taken and the working force more than doubled by the
employment of new men. It was agreed with the union
that these men might joint the "Mesa" and in fact many
of them did so. It was also agreed that when the government order was finished these new men should be discharged so that the old men could remain at work.
The company's plant was divided into a number of
departments, one of which was the machine shop. The
wage scales differed in different departments and the foremen and old men whom the company employed in each
department received higher wages than new men in the
same department. The company had had a practice of
keeping the old men at work, in case business was slack,
by transferring them from their own departments to
others at their regular pay. When negotiations were
under way for the agreement of June 15, 1935, the company insisted on discontinuing this practice of transferring old men from one department to another, stating
that it would recognize, as theretofore, the seniority rights
of old men but only in the departments in which particular men belonged. The management insisted that the
practice of transferring men from one department to an-

LABOR BOARD v. SANDS MFG. CO.
332

Opinion of the Court.

other resulted in inefficiency. The Board has found that
the company in fact disapproved, of the practice because
it resulted in paying higher wages than would have been
the case had the new men been retained or recalled to the
busy department instead of transferring old men from
other departments thereto. As a result of the insistence
of the respondent, certain paragraphs of the proposed
draft submitted by the employes were altered. These
paragraphs follow, with the alterations demanded by the
management in italics:
."(5) That when employees are laid off,.seniority rights
shall rule, and by departments.
"(6) That when one department is shut down, men
from this department will not be transferred or work in
other departments until all old men only within that department, who were laid off, have been called back.
"(7) That all new employees be laid off before any old
employees, in order to guarantee if possible at least one
week's full time before the working week is reduced to
three days."
On June 17, 1935, the company hired approximately
30 additional men, some of whom had worked for the
respondent while the government order was being filled.
By the middle of July work was becoming slack and respondent proceeded to reduce its working force. About
July i5, 1935, after conferences between the management
and the employees, all the men in the tank heater department except the foreman were laid off.
In the agreement of June 15, 1935, the 31 men who
were employes of the respondent prior to the government
order of 1934 were designated as "old men" and those
employed while the government order was being filled
were "new men." About July 30, 1935, a notice was
posted on the time clock in the plant that the new men
would be laid off on July 30 and the old men would be
laid off on August 2, 1935. After the layoff of the new
133096°-39-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

men another notice was posted to the effect that the
plant would be operated with the old men on a schedule
of three days a week.
Thus, by the end of July or the beginning of August,
some departments were being operated on a part time
basis and others had been practically shut down. At or
about this time, the respondent wished to increase the
working force in the machine shop, the key denartment,
while at the same time shutting down the other departments. Repeated conferences were held between the
management and the shop committee in reference to this
matter. The positions of the respondent and the employes were diametrically opposed. The management
contended that new men, experienced in machine shop
work, be employed in preference to the old men.. The
shop committee contended that, under the agreement of
June 15, 1935, the respondent could not hire any new men
for the machine shop as long as old men were still laid off.
The management claimed that the shop committee was
insisting upon a violation of Article 5 of the agreement.
On August 19th an officer conferred with the shop committee and announced that the company would either
keep the machine shop running according to the company's plan or temporarily close the plant. The 6ommittee was requested to confer with the employes and communicate their decision. After conference with the employes the committee stated that the company would not
be allowed to run the machine shop unless it transferred
old men in lieu of new men to that shop, and that if it
did not comply with this condition it could close the
plant. Accordingly, on August 21st, notice was posted
that the plant would be closed until further notice.
August 26th and 27th officers of respondent negotiated
with the International Association of Machinists, an affiliate of the American Federation of Labor, and, on
August 31st, made a contract with that union effective

LABOR BOARD v. SANDS MFG. CO.
332

Opinion of the Court.

September 3rd. It also recruited labor from the county
relief organization. Practically all of the employes so obtained were members of the International. It offered reemployment to several of the old "Mesa" members, as
foremen, on the basis of annual employment at a lower
hourly wage instead of the higher hourly wage theretofore
paid them, subject to layoffs. The offer was refused.
September 3rd the plant reopened. On September 4th, a
representative of "Mesa" called an officer of respondent
and demanded a conference. The demand was refused on
the ground that the men had been discharged. The
"Mesa" picketed the plant for about a month thereafter.
The Board held that the company had refused to bargain collectively with the representatives of its employes
as required by § 8 (5) of the Act; had discriminated in
regard to Aire or tenure of employment and discouraged
membership in a labor organization contrary to the provisions of § 8 (3); and, in violation of § S (1), had interfered with, restrained, and coerced its employes in the
exercise of the right of self-organization, affiliation with
labor organizations and collective bargaining as guaranteed by § 7. The Circuit Court of Appeals disagreed with
these conclusions. We hold that its decision was right.
First. The petitioner urges the correctness of the ultimate conclusion that the respondent's conduct permits no
reasonable inference save that the employes were locked
out, discharged, and refused employment because they
were members of the "Mesa" and had engaged in concerted activities for the purpose of collective bargaining.
We think the conclusion has no support in the evidence
and is contrary to the entire and uncontradicted evidence
of record.
The respondent did not attempt to prevent organization of its employes or discourage their affiliation with
"Mesa" or interfere withm their relations with that body.
There is no evidence of espionage or coercion by the com-

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.,
Opinion of the -Court.

306 U. S.

pany. Immediately upon the unionization of the men in
the spring of 1934, the respondent recognized and conferred with the shop committee whenever requested so to
do. May 2, 1934, it entered into an agreement with the
union. It consulted the union respecting hiring of additional employes for the filling of the government order
in the autumn of 1934 and complied with its promise to
discharge additional men hired for this purpose when the
order had been completed. All but three of the men hired
became members of "Mesa" without objection on the part
of the company. From May 1934 to May 1935 the company negotiated with the union and the latter never had
any trouble in getting meetings with the management.
When, in 1935, a strike was called as a result of the refusal of the shop committee's demand for a wage increase,
the company continued negotiations during the strike and
made an oral agreement under which the strikers returned
to work. When three days later they struck again because of a refusal to reinstate some of their number, although a representative of "Mesa" said several of these
men might be incompetent, the company took the men
back and continued to negotiate with the union with the
result that a draft of a contract was submitted by the
shop committee. After the company had insisted on certain changes with respect to departmental seniority, the
.raft ripened into a contract June 15, 1935.
Thereafter the respondent had hearings with the shop
committee as to the discharge of an employe for incompetence and there is no suggestion that, between June
15th" and August 21st, it failed to live up to its contract
in any respect. Repeated meetings were held with the
shop committee-to discuss the terms of the contract respecting departmental seniority. The evidence of the
members of the shop committee demonstrates that this
matter was fully discussed before the contract was executed and that the members of the committee under-

LABOR BOARD v. SANDS MFG. CO.
332

Opinion of the Court.

stood the company's position and the reason for the alterations in the committee's draft. Throughout the summer of 1935 the company, while adhering to its position,
attempted to accommodate its practices to the demands of the shop committee, evidently in order to
avoid a strike. When the final conference of August 19th
took place the company's manager made it clear to the
committee that he desired to operate the machine shop
with the new men belonging in that department and
when the committee advised him this would not be permitted he asked them to go to the men and find out
whether the proposed operation would be permitted or
whether the plant would have to be shut down. On
August 21st the committee brought back a reply to the
effect that the company could shut down the plant but
could not operate the machine shop on the principle of
departmental seniority. The company then closed the
plant and did not open it until it had employed new
men under a contract with another union which gave it
the option to enforce departmental seniority. Save for
one item of evidence, this is all the record discloses to
indicate that the discharge and replacement of the men
arose from a discrimination against them for union activities and the exercise of the right of collective bargaining. Manifestly it is not only insufficient to sustain any such conclusion but definitely refutes it. The
Board supports the conclusion by reference to the testi,nony of two men. One, Norman, who was, with the
union's consent, discharged after the agreement of June
15, 1935, for incompetency, testified he thought he was
discharged as a result of a grudge. He said that in June,
one McKiernan, a shipping clerk who was his superior,
told him when he complained about his discharge: "I
will tell you; there is a lot more of this than you and
I know of . . ." "I will get you back when we break
this union up . . ." There is the further testimony of

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

a witness Rudd who says that the superintendent said
to him in June, in effect, that it would be better to have
the A. F. of L. union as they were more conservative
and not so likely to strike. This was just after "Mesa"
had called two strikes in the plant. Neither of the men
who are quoted held such a position that his statements
are evidence of the company's policy even in June, two
months before the discharge, and the inference of hostility to "Mesa" drawn from their testimony does not,
in any event, amount to a scintilla when considered in the
light of respondent's long course of conduct in respect
of union activities and in dealing freely and candidly
with "Mesa."
Second. The Board held that respondent violated the
obligation imposed upon it by the statute to bargain
collectively with representatives of its employes. The
legislative history of the Act goes far to indicate that
the purpose of the statute was to compel employers to
bargain collectively with their employes to the end that
employment contracts binding on both parties should be
made.' But we assume that the Act imposes upon the
employer the further obligation to meet and bargain with
his employes' representatives respecting proposed changes
of an existing contract and also to discuss with them its
true interpretation, if there is any doubt as to its meaning. Upon this basis the respondent was not deficient
in the performance of its duty.
The contract provided for departmental seniority, in
§ § 5 and 6, and § 7 did not create any ambiguity on the
subject. Moreover, the record makes it clear that the
committee which negotiated the contract on behalf of
the union fully understood its terms in the same sense
as did the respondent. In this situation how often and
'Report No. 573 of Senate Committee on Education and Labor,
74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 12.

LABOR BOARD v. SANDS MFG. CO.
332

Opinion of the Court.

how long was the company bound to continue discussion of the committee's demand that the provisions of
the contract should be ignored? It is to be borne in
mind that § 20 of the contract provided that if the company did not meet the committee's views within fortyeight hours the employes reserved full liberty of action
and this meant that if the company did not accede to
demands a strike might follow.
We come then to consider the situation of the respondent in August 1935. The Board has found that it desired to operate its machine shop in accordance with its
honest understanding of the contract. Its motive,
whether efficiency or economy, was proper. It had
stated its views to the committee. The committee was
adamant; its stand was that the company could close
its entire plant if it chose, but it could not operate the
machine shop in accordance with the provisions of the
contract. If it attempted the latter alternative a strike
was inevitable. The Board found that it was inconceivable that the employes would have accepted the coinpany's construction of the contract even if they h-d been
threatened with discharge at the time. It is evident that
the respondent realized that it had no alternative but to
operate the plant in the way the men dictated, in the
teeth of the agreement, or keep it closed entirely, or have
a strike. When the representatives of the two parties
separated on August 21, no further negotiations were
pending, each had rejected the other's proposals, and
there were no arrangements for a further meeting. On
the following days the factory was closed.
The Board finds that, in this situation, the respondent
was under an obligation to send for the shop committee
and again to reason with its members or to wait unlil
the situation became such that it could operate its whole
plant without antagonizing the employes' views with
respect to departmental seniority. We think it was under

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

306 U. S.

no obligation to do any of these things. There is no
suggestion that there was a refusal to bargain on August
21st. There could be, therefore, no duty on either side
to enter into further negotiations for collective bargaining in the absence of a request therefor by the employes.'
No such request was made prior to September 4th. Respondent rightly understood that the men were irrevocably committed not to work in accordance with their
contract. It was at liberty to treat them as having
severed their relations with the company because of their
breach and to consummate their separation from the
company's employ by hiring others to take their places.
The Act does not prohibit an effective discharge for
repudiation by the employe of his agreement, any more
than it prohibits such discharge for a tort committed
against the employer.! As the respondent had lawfully
secured others to fill the places of the former employes
and recognized a new union, which, so far as appears,
represented a majority of its employes, the old union
and its shop committee were no longer in a position on
September 4th to demand collective bargaining on behalf
of the company's employes.
It is urged that the company's offer to re-employ four
men as foremen on the basis of guaranteed annual compensation, at a lower hourly rate than had theretofore
been paid them, is evidence to support the Board's finding of a refusal to bargain collectively with the union.
The argument is that if the company had made a similar offer to all of the men this might have formed a basis
of compromise, since one of the employes to whom an
officer talked indicated that the men might be willini
to take a cut in wages; but there is no evidence that the
Compare National Labor Relations Board v. Columbian Enameling
& Stamping Co., ante, p. 292, 298-299.
'Compare National Labor Relations Board v. Fansteel Metallurgical Corp., ante, p. 240, 254ff.

LABOR BOARD v. SANDS MFG. CO.
332

Opinion of the Court.

company had any thought of offering a similar contract
to others than the foremen of departments, and the
breach of contract of which the men were guilty left the
company under no obligation to initiate negotiations for
a new and different contract of employment with them.
Third. Certain occurrences subsequent to August 21,
1935, are urged by the Board in support of its finding that
respondent's discharge of its forty-eight employes constituted discrimination against the union and failure to
bargain collectively. The first of these is its application
to the International Association for men and its making
an agreement with that union on August 26th and 27th.
If, as we have held, the respondent was confronted with
a concerted refusal on the part of "Mesa" to permit its
members to perform their contract there was nothing unlawful in the company's attempting to procure others to
fill their places.' If the respondent was at liberty to hire
new employes it was equally at liberty to make a contract with a union for their services.'
The offering of re-employment to four of the old employes, upon a new and different basis, is said to constitute discrimination against "Mesa," but the answer is
that if the whole body of employes had been lawfully
discharged the law does not prohibit the making of
individual contracts with men whose prior relations had
thereby been severed."
Fourth. The Board found as a fact that in offering reemployment to two of its old men the respondent stipulated as a condition that they join the International
Compare National Labor Relations Board v. Mackay Radio &
Telegraph Co., 304 U. S. 333, 345.
'Compare Consolidated Edison Co. v. National Labor Relations
Board, 305 U. S. 197, 236-237.
10Compare National Labor Relations Board v. Jones & Laughlin
Steel Corp., 301 U. S. 1, 44, 45; National Labor Relations Board v.
Fansteel Corp., ante, p. 240, 259.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

306 U. S.

union. The finding is sharply challenged but, as there is
evidence in support of it, we accept it. Based upon this
finding the Board contends this stipulation in connection
with the offer to hire the men was a violation of § 8 (3)
of the Act independent of any of the violations flowing
out of the discharge and refusal to re-employ the men
as a body. The contention is irrelevant to any issue in
the cause. The complaint alleges that the discharge of the
men constituted an unfair labor practice in violation of
§ 8 (1) and (3) and that the execution of the agreement
with the international association constituted an unfair
labor practice under § 8 (5). It nowhere refers to any
discrimination in hiring any man or men or charges any
violation in connection therewith.
The decree is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK and MR. JUSTICE REED dissent.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER took no part in the consid-

eration or decision of this case.
MILK CONTROL BOARD v. EISENBERG FARM
PRODUCTS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME

No. 426.

COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

Argued February 8, 1939.-Decided February 27, 1939.

A state statute regulating the milk industry, which requires dealers
to obtain licenses; to file bonds conditioned on payment of purchases from producers; and to pay producers at least the minimum
prices prescribed by an administrative agency,-held not violative
of the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution, as applied to a
dealer who, at a receiving station maintained by him within the
State, purchases milk from ne'ghboring farms, all of which he
ships to another State for sale. P. 352.
The obvious purpose of the Act was to control a domestic situation in the interest of the producers and consumers within the

