Oct. 1874.]

SCOTT V. KELLY.
Statement of the case.

case, so far as we can discover, in which law And justice
point to the same result, to wit, the exemption of the company.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Justices CLIFFORD and MILLER dissenting.

SCOTT, ASSIGNEE, V. KELLY.
1. 'When an assignee in bankruptcy voluntarily submits himself to the jurisdiction of a State court, and that court renders judgment against him,
it is too late for him to allege that the Federal courts alone have jurisdiction in bankruptcy.
2. When the question in a State court is not whether if the bankrupt had
title, it would pass to his assignee under the Bankrupt Act, but whether
he had title at all, and the State court decides that he had not, no question of which this court can take jurisdiction under section 709 of the
Revised Statutes is presented.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of New York; the case
being thus:
In July, 1867, three persons, Shawhan, Mendall, and Palmer, of St. Louis,'advertised themselves as copartners, under
the firm name of Shawban & Co., and in the September following purchased in that city, under the name of Shawban
& Co., a quantity of flour of one Stanard, and got -possession of it without paying for it. "Shawhan & Co." immediately failed; having shipped the flour to agents of theirs in
New York, to be sold u.nder the fictitious name and for the
account of E. C. Packard & Co. Stanard thereupon, on the
2d of October, 1867, commenced an action in the Supreme
Court of New York against Shawhan & Co., and attached,
in the hand of the agents of Shawhan & Co., a portion of
the proceeds of the flour.
Shawhan, individually, soon after his failure, and on the
28th of October, 1867, was adjudged a bankrupt in Missouri,
and one Scott was appointed his assignee. The attachment
was levied on the funds mentioned, on the 28th of March,

SCOTT V. KELLY.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

1868. The agents applied to the court for leave to pay the
money into court and substitute the assignee of Shawhan.
the opposing claimants of the fund, as defendant in their
stead; and the assignee being summoned came in and defended the case.
On the trial, he showed that there was in reality a secret
agreement between the persons composing the firm of
"Shawhan & Co.," made when that firm was organized,
that they were not to be partners in fact, but that Mfendall
and Palmer were really to be clerks for Shawhan, and that
they received a salary as such.
This secret agreement, it was admitted, was not known
to or communicated to Stanard before he sold the flour to
Shawhan & Co.
The question presented was this: When Shawhan was
declared bankrupt, whose was the property, as between
Shawban and the creditors of Shawhan & Co., and as between Shawhan and the creditors of Shawban? Did it belong to Shawhan individually, or to Shawhan, Palmer, and
Mendall, as copartners?
The position of the defendants was that as between Shawhan and the 'creditors of Shawban & Co., the property in
question belonged to Shawhan individually, and that therefore it passed to Scott, his assignee in bankruptcy, the same
as would have done any other individual property of his,
for the reason, as they alleged, that the advertisement by the
parties of themselves as copartners was a fraud.
The Supreme Court of New York decided that the attaching creditors, who had attached the proceeds as partnership
property, and who were now represented by one Kelly,
should prevail.
Its view was that, had the suit been brought before Shawhan was decreed a bankrupt, Shawhan would have been
estopped from denying the rights of the attaching creditor,
and that this being so, his assignee was also estopped; that
he had no other rights than Shawhan himself, and no rights
superior to his, and was vested with the property subject to
all equities against it in his hands.

Opt. 1874.]

SCOTT V. ]KELLY.
Opinion of the court.

From this judgment Scott, the assignee, brought the case
here as within section 709 of the Revised Statutes,* his
counsel contending that the State courts of Nvew York had
no jurisdiction in cases of bankruptcy; that under the Bankrupt Actt-which enacted in terms that "the District Courts
of the United States be -and they hereby are constituted courts
of bankruptcy," and which declares that "they shall have
original jurisdiction in all matters and proceedings in bankruptcy "-the matter belonged to one of those courts, and contendingfurther that, as plaintiff in error, he set up a title to
the subject of the controversy under an assignment in bankruptcy, under an act of Congress, to wit, the Bankrupt Act,
which is a "title" . . . "claimed under" a "statute of"
S. . "the United States ;" that such title was necessarily
"drawn in question" in the decision of the Supreme Court,
and that the decision of that court was and is " against the
title" so claimed and "set up" by the plaintiff in error.
Mr. G. TV. Lubkg, for the plaintiff in error; Messrs. J. C.
Perry and Lyman Tremain, contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The writ of error in this case is dismissed for want of
jurisdiction.
The assignee in bankruptcy voluntarily submitted himself and his rights to the jurisdiction of the State court.
Being summoned he appeared, without objection, and presented his claim for adjudication by that court. No effort
was made to remove the litigation to the courts of the
United States. It is now too late to object to the power of
the State court to act in the premises and render judgment.1
The question presented for the decision of the State court*
was not whether, if the bankrupt had title, it would pass to
his assignee by the operation of the Bankrupt Act, but
whether he had title at all. The court decided that he had
See the section in the Appendix.
SMays v. Fritton, 20 Wallace, 414.

t 14 Stat. at Large, 517.

PUTNAM v. DAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

not. Such a decision by a State court does not present a
question of which this court can take jurisdiction upon a
writ of error.
WRIT DISMISSED.

PUTNAM v. DAY.
1. On a bill of review in equity nothing can be examined but the pleadings,
proceedings and decree, which, in this cpuntry, constitute what is called
the record in the cause. The proofs cannot be looked into as they can
on an appeal.
2. On such a bill filed by a defendant to set aside the decree, he is bound by
the answer filed on his behalf by his solicitor, though he did not himself read it, unless he can show mistake or fraud in filing it. The answers of other defendants cannot be read in his favor.
3. 'Where the defendant, by his answer, admits the claim to be due, and
prays contribution from other defendants, without setting up any defence to the demand, he cannot, after a decree, and on a bill of review,
ask to have the decree set aside on the ground of ]aches on the part of
the complainant in bringing suit.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Indiana;
the case being thus:
InJanuary, 1868, Putnam and others, having obtained, in
the Floyd County Circuit Court of the State of Indiana, a
judgment against the New Albany and Sandusky City Junction Railroad Company, filed in the court below, the Circuit
Court of the United lates for the Districtof Indiana, a creditor's
bill against the city of New Albany, Indiada, one Day, and
several other defendants, for the purpose of compelling
them as stockholders of the said railroad company, to pay
certain amounts alleged in the bill to be due and unpaid by
them on their stock subscriptions to the said company, so
that the amount of the judgment due to the complainants
might be paid and satisfied; it being alleged in the bill that
the said company was insolvent, and that all its property had
been exhausted in satisfying other claims.
The'city of New Albany, in its answer, set up a defence
peculiar to itself, to wit, a complete settlement and com-

