Oct. 1874.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. PRATT.
Syllabus.

timohy, to come fairly and reasonably to the conclusion that
Pant was Keene's partner in this transaction.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. PRATT.

1. Though where goods received at one place are to be transported over

2.

3.

4.

5.

several distinct lines of road to another and distant one, the liability of
the common carrier first recei ving them (where no special contract is
made) is limited to his own line, yet he may subject himself by special
contract to liability for them over the whole course of transit. And
this is true of a railroad corporation possessed of the powers given to
railroad corporations generally and subject to corresponding liabilities;
such railroad corporations, ex. gr., as those incorporated under the general railroad law of New York.
If there is competent evidence of such a contract thus to carry, put before the jury, the weight, force, or degree of such evidence is not open
for consideraticn by this court.
What amounts to competent evidence. This matter stated in a recapitulation of the evidence given in this particular ease. A way-bill in
which the heading spoke of the goods as goods to be transported by the
first road, from the place of departure to the place at the end of the
whole line, and at which the owner wished to have them delivered, held
to be such evidence, whether looked upon as a contract, or as a declaration or admission.
Where in such a line of roads as that described in the first paragraph
above, the common carrier owning the first road undertakes to carry
goods over the entire line-part of the goods being put aboard the cars
on his line, and a part to be put on at its termination and where the
next road begins-the fare asked and agreed to be paid being, however,
the fare usually asked and paid for the carriage over the whole line, and
the contract being for transportation over the whole road and not for
carriage to the end of the first line and then for delivering to the carrier
owning the next road and for carriage by him-the fact that a part of
the goods were put on the cars only where the second road begins, will
not exonerate the owner of the first road from liability for their loss.
Where on such a line of road as that in the said first paragraph described,
the second road posts its rules in the station-house of the first, a person
furnishing goods for transportation "through" is not to be held as of
necessity to have notice of them from the fact of such posting, and because be wits often in the station-house of the first company where they
were posted. Independently of which, his contract being with the first
company only, and it agreeing to carly for the whole distance, its rules
are the rules that are to govern the case.

:RAILROAD COMPANY V. PRATT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
6. If a common carrier by rail is negligent and careless in furnishing cars,
and so furnish cars unsuitable for the case-even though they be cars
for cattle, which cars the owner himself sees, and which cattle the owner
himself attends-the carrier is not relieved from re-ponsibility, even
though there have been an agreement that he shall not be responsible.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts, in which court J. Pratt and H. Brigham, of Boston,
sued, by process of attachment, the Ogdensburg and Lake
Champlain Railroad Company, a corporation of New York,
to recover from that company damages for the loss of certain
horses which Pratt, for the two parties, had put into the
company's cars on its road in the said State, and which
had been burned to death, not on the said company's road,
but on the Vermont Central Railroad; a road in the State
of Vermont, connecting with the former, but not belonging
to the same corporation, but on the contrary belonging to a
different corporation; to wit, a corporation of Vermont.
The case was thus:
In the northeastern part of New York there exists what
is known as the Ogdensburg and Lake Champlain Railroad.
The road begins at Ogdensburg, about ninety miles west of
Lake Champlain, and runs eastwardly through a place called
Potsdam to Rouse's Point on the said lake, at which point
it strikes the boundary line between the States of New York
and Vermont.
This Ogdensburg and Lake Champlain Railroad Company was incorporated under the general railroad law of
Yew York, and possessed the powers possessed by railroad
corporations generally, and was subject to the same liabilities as they generally are.
At Rouse's Point begins a new railroad, to wit, the Vermont Central Road; a different road, as already stated, and
owned by a different corporation, oue created by Vermont.
The rails of the two roads, however, connect. This Vermont
Central Road runs across the State of Vermont in a southeasterly direction till it comes towards the edge of Massachusetts, where it strikes a third road, which, passing through
Concord in that State, enters the city of Boston.

Oct. 1874.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. PRATT.

125

Statement of the case.

At the town of Potsdam, above spoken of as near the
west end of the Ogdensburg and. Lake Champlain road,
Pratt, already mentioned, a transporter of horses, went, in
March, 1868, to one Graves, who was the station agent at
Pottsdam of the Ogdensburg and Lake Champlain road, and
informed him that he wished two good "stock cars" to
carry certain horses for himself and Brigham to Boston.
Pratt thus testified:
"I have been for twenty years in the habit of buying horses
(one or two hundred a year), and of transporting them over the
Ogdensburg and Lake Champlain and the Vermont Central
roads to Boston. I have known Graves five or six years as station agent at Potsdam. His office was in the freight-house.
Ile always furnished me stock cars. This occurred from five to
ten times a year. The cars thus furnished by him went without any change right through over these roads, and the arrangements made by him were always recognized by the roads
through to Boston. A week before the horses for whose loss
this suit is brought, were brought to Potsdam, Mr. Graves engaged to give me two good stock cars to carry them to Boston.
He did at the time appointed give me tx4o cars, and I took my
horses to them. I objected to one of the cars. Graves said that
I must take it or wait for a week, as no others than these were
there. I took the car rather than wait, and repaired it as well
as I could. I put in some hay-wet and rotten hay-to keep
the horses from slipping. I always did that. One of the railroad hands and I put it in on this occasion ; and in full view of

the office. This railroad hand had been in the service of the
company for three or four years. I then told Mr. Graves that
I wished to put in other horses at Rouse's Point. He agreed to
this. We agreed upon the price, $85 per car, through to Boston;
being the same price as if all the horses had been put in at
Potsdam; the horses to be transported from Potsdam; some
taken on there and some at Rouse's Point. We had passes to
go on the train which took our horses. I always put my horses
in and go on the cars myself to take care of the horses, or else
send a man. On this occasion Mr. Brigham was in charge all
the way. 1 had no other man. You can't go in the same car
with the horses. A place called a box car was furnished for
us. The way-bill was thus made out:

RAILROAD COMPANY V. PRATT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
Way-bill of merchandise transported by Ogdensburg and Lake Champlain
Railroad Company, from Potsdam Junction to Boston, via Concord, March

20tk, 1868.

deunce.

Total

d

Name and resi-

Description of articles. Weight. 2.

Freight.

charges.

Remarks.

Designation.
J. Pratt, Boston,

1 car horses..................
1 0'g.
man in charge, free,

20,000 .

H. Brigham,.

1 car horsesarge
..........

20,000

85.00
.85.00

$85.00

Coil.

85.00

1 man in charefre
40,000

8170.00

8170.00

"I saw the bill at Potsdam after it was made out."
The plaintiffs here put this question to the witness:
"In these acts of Graves in furnishing cars and making arrangements for transportation through to Boston as testified by
you, for whom did he assume to act ?"
The defendant objected to the question, asserting that the
witness could be asked only as to what was said and done,
and that the question was incompetent on this account, and
as calling from the witness an expression of his own opinion
or inference. The court admitted the question, and defendant excepting, the witness answered:
"He assumed to act for the Ogdensburg and Lake Champlain Railroad Company."
In consequence of the cars being broken and very much
exposed, and sparks from the locomotive getting into them
the hay took fire, and the horses were burnt to death. This
took place on the road of the Vermont Central Company.
Some of the horses were put in at Rou'se's Point.
No freight was paid on this particular occasion at Potsdam; and indeed it was generally paid, in transactions between these parties, in the depot in Boston.
The defendants produced Graves, the station masteralready mentioned. He testified that there were several
cars at Potsdam when Pratt brought the horses to the station, and that he could have had his choice, and as lie, the

Oct. 1874.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. PRATT.

127

Statement'of the case.

witness, supposed did have it; that all cars were examined
before being sent off, and if unfit were reported; that the
cars were "billed" as per the way-bill above shown; that
the freight might have been paid in advance, but was not;
that the witness knew of no hay put into the cars; that it
was against the rules of the Vermont Central road to put
any litter in them. Two men were allowed to go free, one
in each car.
The defendants also put in evidence certain rules printed
on a single sheet, entitled "Vermont Central Railroad Special Live-stock Tariff," which after reciting certain rates of
freight per ton, contained, under the head of" DIRECTIONS,"
the following provisions:
"In consideration of drovers being permitted to ride free on
the same train with their stock for the purpose of taking charge
of it, it-will, in all cases, be their duty, or that of shippers of
live stock, to examine cars before loading, and if they accept
them the stock will be at their risk of loss or damage occasioned
by doors being displaced or otherwise. Hay, straw, and like
combustibles will, under no circumstances, be allowed in a car
with live stock. Persons violating this rule will not only suffer
all loss which the same may cause to his or their own stock, but
will be held responsible for all damage caused by such violation,
whether it be to individuals or to the railroad."
They then introduced evidence tending to show that these
rules were posted up in the Potsdam station, and that the
plaintiffs were often there, and so must have seen them.
The plaintifti denied being often in the station-house, and
testified that they had never seen or beard of the said rules
until after this loss occurred.
On the trial, the court having charged that the defendants would not be liable for a loss occurring on any other
railway in the line unless, at least, they specifically and expressly contracted to transport the horses through or beyond
their own road to where the accident happened; that otherwise they would be forwarders, and their liability would be
discharged by safely delivering to the next road in the line,
was asked by the defendants to charge further thus:

RAILROAD COMPANY V. PRATT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

"If

the jury are satisfied that the plaintiffs at Potsdam
Junction, when they took the car in question, knew of its defects, and that it was unsafe, and liable to catch fire and burn,
having full opportunity to see and examine it, and that they did
see and examine it, and had full knowledge of its condition, and
either selected or accepted this when they might have had another car; or if they consented to take this, and were allowed
to take it at their request and wish, they electing and proposing to do so, and insisting uponit rather than wait a reasonable time for another car, they by so selecting or accepting the
car took their risk of these defects, and cannot recover for
losses occurring because of them."
In lieu of the charge requested, the court charged as follows:
"The coinmon carrier is bound to furnish suitable vehicles
and means of transportation for the carriage of such articles as
he undertakes to carry and transport. If he furnishes unsafe
or unfit cars he is not exempted from liability by the mere fact
that tho shipper knew them to be defective and used them.
Nothing less than an agreement by the shipper to assume that
risk would have that effect. in this case, if the plaintiffs expressly agree to assume the risks of defective cars rather than
to wait a reasonable time for other cars, they cannot recover."
The jury found for the plaintiff, and the Ogdensburg and
Lake Champlain Railroad Company brought the case here
on *dikerent causes of error, which were resolvable into
these four questions:
1. Had the Ogdensburg and Lake Champlain Railroad
Company power or right to contract as a common carrier
to transport the horses to Boston over another railroad, and
beyond its own terminus?
2. 'Was there competent evidence given on the trial that
the company did so contract in relation to the horses in
question ?
3. Did the plaintiffs, by putting their horses into a car
wihich they knew was defective and unsuitable, thereby
assume the risk of such defects, and relieve the company
from responsibility for the same?

Oct. 1874.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. PRATT.
Opinion of the court.

4. Was there error in admitting in evidence the way-bill
made and forwarded with the property by the defendants,
or in allowing the witness to state for whom the station
agent assumed to act?
Mr. C. 1. Bill, for the plaintiff in error; Messrs.
Pierce and A. Churchill, contra.

. L.

Mr. Justice HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The several causes of error assigned present four separate
principles, and we will consider the questions which they
raise in their order. The questions may be thus stated:
First. As to the power of the railroad company to contract
as a common carrier for the transportation of property beyond the terminus of its own road.
The distinction between the liability of a carrier, in carrying goods upon his own line, and in forwarding them
when the duty to carry is at an end, is well defined. In
the language of Mr. Justice Davis, in Railroad Company v.
Manufacturing Company,* "It is the duty of the carrier, in
the absence of any special contract, to carry safely to the
end of his line, and to deliver to the next carrier in the
route beyond." What constitutes a sufficient delivery to
the succeeding carrier is often a difficult question, but we
have no occasion to embarrass ourselves with it here.
The fair result of the American cases limits the carrier's
liability as such, when no special contract is made, to his
own line, although there are cases which hold the liability
as continuing the same throughout the whole route, and
such is the English doctrine. A discussion on this point is
unnecessary, as the judge on the trial held the rule as we
have stated it, and as was most favorable to the defendants,
He charged the jury that the defendants were only liable
upon a contract to be proved that they had assumed a liability beyond that imposed by law.
The defendants were an incorporation organized under
* 16 Wallace, 324.
VOL. XXII.

9

IRAILROAD COMPANY V. PRATT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the general railroad law of the State of New York. They
possessed the powers given to corporations generally and
were subject to the corresponding liabilities.*
Assuming the case to stand upon the general principles
applicable to the qu'estion, the doctrine that a railroad company may subject itself to the obligations of a carrier beyond
its own line, has been distinctly held in the State of New
York, where this contract was made; in the State of Massachusetts, where its performance was to be completed, and
in the State of Vermont, where the alleged injury occurred.t
In the case of Burlis v. Buffalo and St. Lawrence -Railroad,
supra, it was held that this principle applied to connecting
roads extending beyond the limits of the State. The single
exception to this holding, so far as we are aware, is in the
State of Connecticut, where the contrary has been held by
its Supreme Court.t
This case, however, does not stand upon the general principle only. By the statutes of New York§ it is enacted as
follows: "Any railroad company receiving freight for transportation shall be entitled to the same rights and subject to
the same responsibilities as common carriers. Whenever
two or more railroad companies are connected together, any
company owning either of said roads receiving freight to be
transported to any place on the line of either of said roads
so connected shall be liable as common carriers for the delivery of such freight at suchplace. In case any such company shall become liable to pay any sum by reason of the
* New York, Laws of, 1848, p. 221; Same, Laws of, 1860, p. 211.
- Bissell v. Michigan Railroad, 22 New York, 258; Buffett v. Troy and
Boston Bailroad, 40 Id. 168; Root v. Great Western Railroad, 45 Id. 524;
Burtis v. Buffalo and St. Lawrence Railroad, 24 Id. 269; Hill Manufacturing
Co v. Boston and Lowell Railroad Co., 101 Massachusetts, 122; Feital v.
Middlesex Railroad, 109 Id. 3 ; Noyes v. Rutland and Bennington Railroad Co., 27 Vermont. 110; Morno v. Brainerd, 41 Id. 550; Railroad Co. v.
Manufacturing Co., 16 Wallace, 324; Evansville and Crawfordsville Railroad Co. v. Androscoggin Mills.
$ Converse v. N. and N. Y. Transportation Co., 33 Connecticut, 166; 22
Id. 502.
Statutes of 1847, 299, 9; 2 Rev'-pd Statutes, 5th edition, 693, 67.

Oct. 1874.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. PRATT.

11

131

Opinion of the court.

neglect of any other company or companies, the company
paying such sum may collect the same of the company by
whose neglect it became so liable." This statute is declared
by Rappallo, J., in Boot v. Great Western Railroad,* to be
declaratory merely.
We do not see that there is room to doubt the power of
the company to make the contract in question.
Second. Was there evidence in this case that the Ogdensburg and Lake Champlain Railroad Company did contract
as a common carrier to transport this property beyond its
own terminus over other roads to Boston ?
The weight, the force, or the degree of the evidence is
not before us, if there was competent evidence, on which
the jury might lawfully find the existence of the contract
alleged.t
Both the authority of Graves, the station agent, to make
the contract, and the evidence of Pratt and others of the
making of the contract, were questions of fact for the consideration of the jury. If the jury have found in the plaintiffs' favor on these points, upon evidence legally sufficient
to justify it, this court cannot interfere with their findings.
The evidene on both these points may properly be considered at the same time. Pratt testified that he had for
many years been in the habit of transporting horses over
the defendants' road to Boston, to the number of two hundred a year, and that Graves had been the station agent at
Potsdam for five or six years; that nearly a week before the
present shipment Graves engaged to give him on that day
two good st6ck-cars to carry his horses to Boston, and that
the cars furnished by Graves had always come over these
roads and delivered the horses in Boston, and that the
arrangements made by him were recognized by the other
roads; that Graves's office was in the Potsdam freight-house,
and that he paid the freight through, sometimes at Potsdam
* 45 New York, 524.
t Dirst v. Morris, 14 Wallace, 484

Mills v. S-mith, 8 Id. 27.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. PRATT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and sometimes at Boston; that on this occasion he agreed
with Graves upon the price through to Boston, viz., $85 a
car, and that a way-bill was made out for the horses and
cars to Boston at the price mentioned. Other witnesses
give testimony in corroboration, which it is not necessary to
refer to. Graves testified that he was the station-master at
Potsdam, and that the cars were billed from Potsdam-to
Boston, yia Concord, as per bill; that the price agreed upon
was not paid in advance, but it might have been.
The way-bill was headed thus: " Way-bill of merchandise
transported by Ogdensburg and Lake Champlain Railroad
Company from Potsdam Junction to Boston via Concord,
March 28th, 1868." It describes the two cars with horses,
and as consigned to Pratt & Brigham, at Boston.
We see no sound objection to the admission of this waybill as evidence. If a written contract, it was not only evidence, but the best evidence of what the contract was. It
was exhibited to Pratt before the cars were started, as a
part of the transaction.
If not a contract, it was al act done and a declaration
made by the agent in the very act of transacting the business,
and as a part of it, which brought it within the principle of

the res gestae.
This evidence shows that the oral engagement was "to
carry his horses to Boston," not to carry to Rouse's Point
and thence to forwarcd to Boston, but "to carry" as well
and as fully over the Vermont and Massachusetts roads as
over the Ogdensburg road.
Again, a specific- price was agreed upon for transportation
over the whole route. This was in accordance with the
practice, and whether paid at Potsdam or at Boston was unimportant. This practice had been continued for years, and
the jury had the right to hold the contract to be the same,
without reference to prepayment or postpayment. The
jury were justified in inferring that where a carrier fixes a
price for transportation over the whole route, that he makes
the entire contract his own. One who carries simply over
his own line, and thence forwards by other lines, would ordi-

Oct. 1874.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. PRATT.

133

Opinion of the court.

narily, the jury may say, make or collect his own charges
and leave the remaining charges to be collected by those
performing the remaining service. ReCeipt of the entire
pay affords a fair presumption of an entire contract.
The language of the way-bill is quite expressive. It describes "merchandise transported . . . from Potsdam to
Boston." Transported or carried are equivalent terms, and
quite distinct from the idea of forwarding. Whether looked
upon as a contract, or as a declaration, or an admission
simply, the way-bill furnishes evidence that the Ogdensburg
company undertook to carry the horses to Boston.
In Root v. Great Western,* in speaking of the contract to
transport as a common carrier over other lines, the court
say: "Such an undertaking may be established by express
contract, or by showing that the company held itself out as
a carrier for the entire distance, or received freight for the
entire distance, or other circumstances indicating an understanding that it was to carry through."
We think there was competent evidence before the jury
that the company undertook to carry this property to Boston, and the jury having found such to be the fact, the other
companies are to be deemed the agents of the defendants,
for whose faults they are responsible.
Third. The loss, it is contended, arose from the defective
condition of the car in which the horses were placed, whereby it was exposed to danger from fire. It is said that Pratt
was aware of the defective condition of the car; that he
voluntarily made use of it, and that the risk of loss by its
use thus became his and ceased to be that of the company.
The judge charged the jury that it was the duty of the carrier to furnish suitable vehicles for transportation; that if
he furnished unfit or unsafe vehicles he is not exempted
from responsibility by the fact that the shipper knew them
to be defective and used them; that nothing less than a
direct agreement by the shipper t6assume the risk would
have that effect.
* Supra, p. 131.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. PRATT.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

There was a conflict in the testimony upon the point
whether other cars were to be had. Pratt testified that he
was compelled to take these cars or wait 'with his horses for
a week. The station-agent testified that there were other
cars which Pratt might have had if he preferred them.
The authorities sustain the position taken by the judge at
the trial.
In New Jersey &team Navigation Company v. Merchants'
-Bank,* Mr. Justice Nelson says: "If it is competent at all
for the carrier to stipulate for the gross negligence of himself and servants or agents in the transportation of goods, it
should be required to be done at least in terms that would
leave no.doubt as to the meaning of the parties."
To this effect are the New York and Massachusetts cases
before cited.
In Railroad Company v. Manufacturing Companyt it was
declared that the court did not intend to relax the rule by
which the liability of carriers was established. In Railroad
Company v. Lockwoodl the following, among other propositions, were reiterated and established by the unanimous
judgment of the court:
1st. That a common carrier cannot lawfully stipulate for
exemption from responsibility when such exemption is not
just and reasonable in the eye of the law.
2d. That it is not just and reasonable in the eye of the
law for a common carrier to stipulate for exemption from
responsibility for the negligence of himself or his servants.
The judge at the trial in this case might have gone much
further than he did, and have charged that if the jury found
the company to have been negligent and careless in furnishing cars, they would not be relieved from responsibility,
although there had been an agreement that they should not
be liable therefor.
-Fourth. It is contended that there was error in the admission of evidence on the trial. The admission of the way* 6 Howard, 344, 383.

t 16 Wallace, 318.

$ 17 "Wallace, 357.

Oct. 1874.]

R AILROAD COMPANY V. PRATTOpinion of the court.

bill we have considered, and we think it was properly admitted.
When the plaintiff, Pratt, was on the stand, as a witness
the following question was put to him: "In these acts of
Graves in furnishing cars and making agreements for transportation through to Boston, as testified by you, for whom
.did he assume to act ?" This question was objected to by the
defendants, and the objection was overruled. We think
this question was erroneous in its form, and that, as insisted
by the defendants, he should have been asked to state only
what was said and done. The error was, however, harmless.
That Graves was acting for the Ogdensburg company was
disputed by no one. All that had been testified to, showed
it. Graves himself testified that he was so acting, and there
was no evidence or pretence to the contrary, either on the
trial or the argument. The question is as to the effect of
his acts, and not as to whether he acted for the company.
His authority has not been repudiated by the company at
any time or in any form. We have often held that we'will
not reverse a judgment on account of an error which clearly
appears to have produced no injury.
Two suggestions are made by the counsel for the plaintiffs
in error which require consideration.
The first is that the rules of the Vermont Central road
forbade the use of combustible material in the cars on their
road, and that if known to the plaintiffs, and the contract
were made in reference to them, the presence of this material in the car while on their road was a bar to the action.
The answer to this suggestion is, first, that there is no competent evidence of such contract and agreement; and second,
that the contract was made with the Ogdensburg road alone.
The shippers were strangers to the rules as well as to the
owners of the Vermont road. Their dealings were with the
Ogdensburg road only, one of whose agents aided in putting
the litter into the car, and the rules of which company were
not violated by that act.
The second suggestion is that some of the horses injured
were not placed in the cars till they were at Rouse's Point,

136

ST. JOHN

v.

ERIE RAILWAY OOMPANY.

[SUp. Ct.

Syllabus.

beyond the terminus of the defendants' road. The contract was in substance for transportation over the Ogdensburg road of all the horses. For the convenience of the
shipper he was allowed to put them on board at different
points. This was an incidental circumstance merely, and
does not affect the contract. If it receives the full price for
the transportation of all the property from Potsdam to Boston it is evidently to the advantage of the company if it
escapes the danger incident thereto for a portion of the distance. The power to contract for the whole distance of all
the horses, and the making of such contract, and the receipt
of the compensation specified, fix the rights of the parties.
The precise details of its performance are not essential.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

ST. JOHN V. ERIE RAILWAY COMPANY.
A railroad company, built originally with money contributed as stock, subsequently borrowed money, issuing its bonds at five several dates and
giving five several mortgages to secure them. It also borrowed money,
issuing bonds for which it gave no mortgage; unsecured bonds. It
finally proved insolvent, and proceedings to foreclose the last two mortgages were had. The stockholders and creditors now entered into an
agreement for the adjustment of its liabilities, and pursuant to the
agreement the road was sold under the proceedings of foreclosure to
trustees, who transferred all its property subject to all the existing
mortgage liens to a new corporation authorized by the legislature, with
an agreement confirmed by legislative act, by which it was agreed that
the stockholders of the old company should be stockholders-common
stockholders-in the new; and the unsecured creditors of the old one
be stockholders preferred. This agreement was carried out, and the
parties further agreed"Such preferred stock shall be entitled to preferred dividends out of the net
earnings of said road (if earned in the current year, but not otherwise), not to
exceed seven per cent. in any one year, payable semi-annually, after paynent
of mortgage inte)est and delayed coupons in full."

The new company now worked the road, and for a considerable time paid
to the preferred stockholders seven per cent. out of its net earnings,
and-of course after payment of mortgage interest and delayed coupons.

