BAILEY V. RAILROAD

COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

is, by its very terms, applicable to goods not yet at Evansville, when the contract takes effect.
We are of opinion that the argument of the defendants in
error, upon which the judgment below was based, that the
exemption from liability by fire was limited to fire occurring
after the cotton had been received at and shipped from
Evansville, was erroneous. The exemption covers the entire
route.
JTUDGIENT REVERSED,

and judgment upon the demurrer

ordered in favor of
THE

PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR.

BAILEY V. RAILROAD COMPANY.
1. In December, 1868, a railroad company, which was in existence in 1862,
and before, but which by its charter was limited to 10 per cent. dividends on its capital, now all taken, reciting that it had "hitherto expended of its earnings for the purpose of constructing and equipping its
road, and in the purchase of real estate and other properties with a
view to the increase of its traffic, moneys equal to 80 per cent. of its
capital," and reciting further that the stockholders were "1entitled to
evidence of such expenditure and to reimbursement of the same at some
convenient future period," resolved to give them and did give them in
proportion to the amount of stock held by them respectively,_certificates which it called "1interest certificates," which certified that A. B.
"being the holder of shares of the capital stock of the company,
was entitled to $-,
payable ratably with the other like certificates,
at the pleasureof the company out of its future earnings, with dividends
thereon at the same rates and times as dividends should be paid upon
the capital stock of the company." The "certificate" was declared to
be transferable on the books of the company, and had a transfer in
blank at the foot of it, in the form common at the foot of certificates of
stock, with an appointment in blank of an attorney to transfer.
Held, that this was a "dividend in scrip," within the twenty-second section of the Internal Revenue Act of June 30th, 1864, as subsequently
amended, which enacts that "any railroad company which may have
declared any dividend in scrip or money due or payable to its stockholders as part of the earnings, profits, income, or gains of such company, carried to the account of any fund, or used for constructi( n, shall
be subject to and pay a tax of five per centum on the amount of such

Oct. 1874.]

BAILEY V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

605

Statement of the case.
dividends or profits, whenever and wherever the same shall be payable;" and which authorized the company making such dividend to
withhold the five per cent. tax.
2. The said company having declared, in February and August, 1869, two
dividends on these certificates, as well as on its stock, and having paid a
tax of 5 per cent. on all the dividends, without any suggestion by the
revenue officers that any further tax was due, became, in February,
1870, under legislative authority, consolidated with another company;
the statute under which the consolidation was effected, enacting that it
should be lawful for the old company "to merge and consolidate its
capital stock, franchises, and property" with the other company which
it was proposed to become united with; but enacting also " that the
rights of all creditors of and all liens upen the property of either of said
corporations shall be preserved unimpaired, and the respective corporations shall be deemed to continue in existence to preserve the same;
and that all debts and liabilities incurred by either of said corporations
(except mortgages) shall thenceforth attach to such new corporation
and be enforced against it."
Held, that the new company was liable to the five per cent. tax on the dividend in scrip, which the old one was bound to pay. And the new company having paid it under protest, to save its property from being sold
on a levy for it; held further, on assumpsit brought by the new company against the collector to recover back the money, that the dividend
in scrip having been decided to be a proper subject for the five per cent.
tax, and the company-notwithstanding a violation of its own duty in
making, without demand, a return of the dividend-having had, in
fact, a full hearing before the officers of internal revenue, and obtained
thereby a large abatement from the tax as originally assessed, this court
would not suffer a recovery by the railroad company against the collector,
because, in compelling payment of the tax, he had not conformed with
certain proceedings of form intended to secure a full hearing to taxpayers, which the act made it lawful and perhaps proper for the assessor
to do before resorting to the ulterior measure of levy on the company's
property.
3. On a question whether the so-called "interest certificates" were taxable
as a dividend in scrip, evidence from the Reports, both of the old and
of the new company, was allowable, to show that from the time the
"interest certificates" were issued up to the time of the suit, dividends
were declared and paid on them, just as on the company's capital stock.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
New York; the case being thus:
The 22d section of the Internal Revenue Act of June
80th, 1864," enacts:
* 13 Stat. at Large, 284, as amended by the Internal Revenue Act of
July 13th, 1866; 14 Id. 138.

BAILEY V. IRAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.

"That any railroad company that may have declared any
dividend in scrip or money, due or payable to its stockholders, as
part of the earnings, profits, income, or gains of such company
carriedto the account of any fund or used for construction, shall be
subject to and pay a tax of 5 per centum on the amount of all
such dividends or profits, whenever and wherever the same shall
be payable; and said compan'ics are hereby authorized to deduct
and withhold from all payments on account of any dividends, due
and payable, as aforesaid, the tax of 5 per centum.
"And a list or return shall be made and rendered to the
assessor, on or before the 10th of the month following that in
which said dividends became due and payable, and as often as
every six months; and said list or return shall contain a true
and faithful account of the amount of tax, and there shall be
annexed thereunto a declaration of the president or treasurer
of the company, under oath or affirmation, that the same contains a true and faithful account of said tax.
"And for any.default in making or rendering such list or return, or in the payment of the tax aforesaid, the company
making such default shall forfeit as a penalty the sum of $1000."
The fourteenth section of the act thus enacts:*
"If any person shall not deliver a monthly or other list or
return by the time required by law; or if any person shall deliver*or disclose to any assessor or assistant assessor any list,
statement, or return, which in the opinion of the assessor is
false or fraudulent, or containing any understatement or undervaluation, it shall be lawful for the assessor to summon such
person, his agent, or other person having possession, custody,
or care of books of account containing entries relating to such
person, to appear before such assessor-, produce such books at
any time or place therein named, to give testimony, to answer
interrogations under oath or affirmation respecting any objects
liable, to tax as aforesaid on the lists, statements, or-returns
thereof on any trade, business, or profession liable to any tax
as aforesaid; and the assessor may summod as aforesaid any
person residing or found within the State in which his district
is situated; and. when the person intended to be 'summoned
* Section fourteen of the act of June 30th, 1864 (13 Stat. at Large, 226),
as amended by the ninth section of the act of July 13th, 1866, 14 Id. 138.

Oct. 1874.]

BAILEY V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

Statenbent of the case.
does not reside, and cannot be found within the State, then the
assessor may enter any collection district where such person
may be found and there make the examination, hereinbefore
authorized, and to this end he shall have and may exercise all
the power and authority he has or may lawfully exercise in the
district to which he is commissioned. . . . It shall be the duty
of the assessor or assistant assessor of the district within which
such person may have taxable property to enter into and upon
the premises, if it be necessary, of such person so refusing or neglecting, or rendering a false or fraudulent return, and to make,
according to the best information he can obtain, including that
derived from the evidence elicited by the examination by the
assessor, and on his own view and information, such list or return, according to the form prescribed, of the property, goods,
merchandise, wares, and all articles or objects liable to tax,
owned or possessed, or under the care or management of such
person, and assess the tax thereon, including the amount, if any,
due for special or income tax. . . . And the list or return so
made, and subscribed by said assessor or assistant assessor,
shall be taken and reputed as good and sufficient for all legal
purposes."
Section nineteen of the same statute enacts:*
"That the assessor . . . shall give notice by advertisement,
in one newspaper published in each county, and shall post
notices, &c., stating the time and place where appeals shall be
received and determined, relative to any erroneous or excessive
valuation. . . . And such assessor is hereby authorized at any
time to hear and determine in a summary way, according to law
and right, upon any and all appeals by parties who shall appear
voluntarily before him, &c. And shall have power to re-examine
and determine upon the assessments and valuations, and rectify
the same as shall appear just and equitable."
On the 19th of December, 1868-the above-quoted enactment being then in force-the New York Central Railroada company having its road between Albany and Buffalo,
and which had been in existence since 1853-passed resolutions authorizing the issue of certain certificates to the
stockholders of the company, to the amount of 80 per cent.
* 14 Stat. at Large, 102; amending section nineteen of the act of 1864.

BAILEY v.

RAILROAD

COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

of the amount of the capital stock of the company. The
company by its charter was restricted to annual dividends
of 10 per cent. The certificates were named "interest certificates," and the aggregate amount of them authorized by
the said resolutions was $23,036,000. The amount of the
capital stock of the company, at the time said resolutions
were passed, was $28,795,000, and it was at this time all
taken. The resolutions and certificate referred to each
other, and all together-made the form of the certificate.
The following is a copy of the resolutions and certificate:
"THE

NEW YORK CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY.

Whereas, This company has hitherto expended of its earnings for the purpose of constructing and equipping its road, and

in the purchase of real estate and other properties, with a view
to the increase of its traffic, moneys equal in amount to 80 per
cent. of the capital stock of the company; and whereas, the
several stockholders of the company are entitled to evidence of

such expenditure, and to reimbursement of the same at some
convenient future period; now, therefore,
"Resolved, That a certificate, signed by the president and treasurer of this company, be issued to the stockholders severally,
declaring that such stockholder is entitled to 80 percent. of the
amount of the capital stock held by him, payable ratably with
the other certificates issued under this resolution, at the option

of the company, out of its future earnings,with dividends thereon,
at the same rates and times as dividends shall be paid on shares of
the capital stock of the company, and that such certificates may be,
at the option of the company, convertible into stock of the company,
whenever the company shall be authorized to increase its capital
stock to an amount sufficient for such conversion."
The certificates were in this form:
THE NEW YORK CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY.

Wo.

Interest Certificate.

Under a resolution of the board of directors of this company,
passed December 19th, 1868, of which the above is a copy, the
New York Central Railroad Company hereby certifies that
A. B., being the holder of shares of the capital stock of
said company, is entitled to dollars payable ratably with

Oct. 1874.]

BAILEY V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

609

Statement of the case.

the other certificates issued under said resolution at the pleasure
of the company out of its future earnings, With dividends thereon,
at the same rates and times as dividends shall be paid upon the
shares of the capital stock of said company.
This certificate may be transferred on the books of the company on the surrender of this certificate.
In witness whereof, the said company has caused this certificate to be signed by its president and treasurer, this 19th day
of December, 1868.
President.
Treasurer.

At the foot of each certificate there was a form of transfer
in blank:
For a valuable consideration I, A. B., do hereby sell, assign, and
transfer all interest in the above certificate to C. D., and do
hereby irrevocably appoint E. F. attorney, to execute a transfer thereof on the books of the railroad company therein mentioned.
The company declared two dividends of $921,440 each
upon these interest certificates, payable respectively, February 20th and August 20th, 1869, which were duly returned
to the United States assessor, who assessed a tax of $46,072
upon each of them, which tax the company paid. The
company also declared two dividends of $1,151,800 each,
upon its capital stock, payable, respectively, February 20th
and August 20th, 1869, which were also duly returned to the
United States assessor, who assessed a tax of $57,590 upon
each of them, which tax also the company paid. At the
times these dividends upon the interest certificates and upon
the stock were returned to the United States assessor, no
allegation was made by the officers of the government, that
the returns of the said dividends were filse, or, that as to
them there was "any understatement or undervaluation,"
or, that there had been any neglect on the part of the company to make a return as to the issue of said interest certificates; or that the said returns should have included the
VOL. XXII.

89

BAILEY V.

RAILROAD

COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

interest certificates themselves as well as the dividends upon
them.
At the time when these certificates were issued and taxes
were paid, as for some years before, there existed in the
State of New York a railroad company known as the Hudson River Railroad Company; a company having a road
running from the city of New York to East Albany, and
there connecting by ferry with the road of the New York
Central Railroad Company, just above mentioned; the two
making a line of transit from the city of New York to
Buffalo.
On the 1st of November, 1869, somewhat less than a year
after the 80 per cent. "dividend of scrip" above mentioned
was made by the New York Central Company, the two roads
were consolidated, under a general act of the legislature
of New York, into a new company by the name of "The
New York Central and Hudson River Railroad Company."
The act under which the consolidation was made, enacts
that it shafl be lawful for any railroad company "to merge
and consolidate its capital stock, franchises, and property
with the capital stock, franchises, and property of any other
company."
The fifth section of the act provided that"The rights of all creditors of, and all liens upon, the property of either of said corporations, parties to said agreement
and act, shall be preserved unimpaired, and the respective corporations shall be deemed to continue in existence to preserve
the same, and all debts and liabilities incurred by either of said
corporations, except mortgages, shall thenceforth attach to such
newv corporation, and be enforced against it and its property to
the same extent as if said debts or liabilities had been incurred
or contracted by it."
On the 26th of February, 1870, fourteen months after the
certificates were authorized, and nearly four months after
the consolidation of the New York Central Railroad Company with the Hudson River Railroad Company, the United
States assessor sent a notice, directed to "Charles Wendell,

Oct. 1874.]

BAILEY V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

Statement of the case.-Proceedings of the assessment.

Esq., Acting Treasurer, New York Central Railroad Com-

pany," and datedAssEssoR's OFFICE, FOURTEENTH DISTRICT, N. Y.,

ALBANY, February 26th, 1870.

SIR: I am directed by the commissioner of internal revenue,
&c., to cause an assessment of taxes against the New York Central Railroad Company upon the scrip dividend, issued by resolution of the board of directors of said company, December
19th, 1868.
I am also requested to furnish the supervisor the names of
persons to whom such scrip was issued. Will you please furnish
me with the amount of such dividend, and the names of the
persons to whom the scrip was issued ?
Respectfully,
R. P. LATHROP,
Assessor.
CHARLES WENDELL, ESQ.,

Acting Treasurer of the New York Central Railroad Company.

The assessor received no answer from Mr. Wendell, nor
from the New York Central Railroad Company in reply to
the foregoing notice.
On the 3d of March, 1870, more than four months after
the consolidation, and more, considerably, than a year after
above mentioned had been made, the asthe "dividend"
sessor of internal revenue for the district of Albany, where
the New York Central Railroad Company had had its principal office, made what he called, and asserted to be, an
The document ran
"assessment" against that company.
thus:
UNITED STATES INTERNAL REVENUE.
Assessment against the New York Central Railroad Company.

The NQew York Central Railroad Company having failed to
make return of the scrip dividend, or interest certificates, voted
at a meeting of the directors of said company, held December
19th, 1868, as required to do by section 122, act June 80th, 1864,
act July 13th, 1866, internal revenue laws.
Now, therefore, by the authority vested in me, and as required by the several sections of said internal revenue laws, I

BAILEY V.

RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Slip. Ot.

Statement of the case.

do assess against the president, directors, and company of the
New York Central Railroad,the following tax, to wit:
.
.
Capital stock, December 19th, 1868,
Scrip dividend, or interest certificates, being 80 per
..
cent. of said capital,

Tax on same at 5 per cent.,
Penalty for failure,
Amount of tax,

..

$28,795,000 00
23,036,000 00
$1,151,800 00
1,000 00
$1,152,800 00

R. P. LATHROP,
ALbAnY, ?ilarch 3d, 1870.

Assessor, Fourteenth District, N. Y.

This assessment was made on the day it bore date by the
assessor alone in his office. He made no examination of
the books or officers of the company for the purpose of ascertaining whether the certificates were one of the objects
liable to tax under the internal revenue law, nor gave notice
when an appeal from the assessment could be heard, nor did
any other of the things of form prescribed by the abovequoted fourteenth and nineteenth sections of the Revenue
Act, as things lawful to be done, &c., in cases where the
party liable to the tax had neglected or refused to make a
return. He ascertained the amount of the scrip dividend
from a document rendered by the company to the legislature
of the State.
On an appeal made in February, 1872, from this assessment to the commissioner of internal revenue, that officer
held that the company was liable to a tax of 5 per cent.
without penalty, on $9,214,400, being six-fifteenths of the
entire dividend, the proportionate amount chargeable to the
period between September 30th, 1862, and September 30th,
1868. This reduced the assessment to $460,720. And he
directed that on payment of that sum the remainder of the
assessment, viz., $692,080, including the $1000 penalty,
should be abated.
The assessment was accordingly reformed; but the New
York Central and Hudson River Railroad Company still
declined to pay it. The matter being referred by the reve-

Oct. 1874.]

BAILEY V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

Statement of the ease.-Charge of the court below.

nue bureau to its solicitor, this officer gave it as his opinion
that the certificates were not taxable at all. It was afterwards submitted to Mr. Orton, former commissioner of internal revenue, Mr. Smyth, former supervisor of the same,
and to the assessor who, under direction, had made the assessment; and these officers concurred in opinion with the
solicitor. For the sake of having the matter judicially decided, the collector thereupon, under three different warrants, reciting that "The New York Central Railroad Company, OR the New York Central and Hlpdson River Railroad
Company" had become liable to the tax, seized a large
number of the last-named company's locomotives and cars,
and was proceeding to sell them, when the amount claimed
was paid under protest. The company now sued the collector in assumpsit to get back the money.
In the course of the trial the counsel of the collector
offered to read from the reporfs of the New York Central
Railroad Company for the year 1869, and from the reports
from the New York Central and Hudson River Railroad for
the years 1870, 1871, and 1872, for the 'urpose of showing
that the interest certificates were merged in the capital stock
of the defendant in error in 1872, and that dividends were
declared and paid on such interest certificates in 1869, 1870,
and 1871, the same as upon the capital stock.
The counsel for the latter company, the plaintiff, objected
to the evidence as incompetent and irrelevant, upon the
ground that it was immaterial what was done with the certificates after they were issued; that the question was whether
they were taxable by their character and in the circumstances existing at the time they were issued.
The court sustained the objection; the counsel for the
collector excepting.
The case being closed, the court charged:
"Dividends are included as a well-known indicia of the income of corporations, and constitute the profits divided by them
after paying the expenses of their business and operations.
They are usually declared in money, but as they are sometimes
declared in stock, and known as scrip dividends, and as when

BAILEY V. IRAILROAD

COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Ohargo of the court below.

io declared they represent income as profits which are apportioned to stockholders in stock instead of in money, Congress,
intending to reach income in every form, subjected to tax ' dividends in scrip or money.' The inquiry then is, were the interest certificates, as issued by the company, a stock dividend? If
they conferred on the respective stockholders any greater interest in the earnings or capital of the corporation than they
had before receiving them, then they were a stock dividend
though called 'interest certificates.' If they did not, they ai e
not a stock dividend. Congress did not intend to tax dividends
in stock which were not so in fact, and did not seek, while in
search of income, to subject to tax that which is not income.
In other words, they do not intend to tax, as stock dividends,
those myths which, in the process known as watering stock, are
sometimes assigned to shareholders of corporations as stock dividends. This intent is apparent from the limitation expressed.
The tax is imposed on dividends declared in scrip or money,
'due as part of the earnings, profit, income, or gains of such
company.' The icertificates issued by the New York Central
Railroad Company were issued as representing earnings and
profits accruing from the operations of the company, and to that
extent meet the requisites of a stock dividend. But did they
vest in its stockholders any greater interest in its earnings or
capital than they had prior thereto?
"In my judgment they did not. By the certificates and resolutions the stockholders are entitled severally to 80 per cent
more of the stock than they had before, ' at the option of the
company.' In other words, each stockholder shall have additional stock to that amount if the company shall, in its discretion and at its pleasure, see fit to assign it to him.
"The directors of the company reserve the right to decline,
at their volition or caprice, to assign any additional stock. The
stockholder receives nothing by the declaration of the resolutions and certificates, but the naked assurance of a possibility
which, at some indefinite future period, may result to his advantage. It is in no sense a vested right, capable of enforcement,
for he never could compel the company to transfer to him additional stock. it is true that the resolutions and certificates entitle the stockholder to a dividend to be paid on the 80 per cent.
'at the same time and ratably with dividends on the capital
stock.' But I fail to see how this, in any manner, inures to his

Oct. 1874.]

BAILEY V.

RAILROAD COMPANY.

Statement of the case -Charge

of the court below.

advantage. The earnings of the company, instead of being applied to dividends on his capital stock, are applied on that and
the certificates ratably, and to the extent that he receives a
dividend on the certificates, his dividend on the capital stock is
reduced. The stockholder derives and the company appropriates no income by the transaction which would not have been
derived and appropriated if the certificates had never been
issued. Another feature of the certificates is an important one,
as'marking a wide difference between their legal effects and that
of a certificate of stock. The 80 per cent. is not to be paid out
of the general assets and earnings of the corporation, neither
are the dividends which are thereafter to be made. The dividends to be declared upon the certificates are only to be paid
out of the future earnings of the company. Upon a dissolution
of the corporation these certificate-holders would receive no part
of the assets, except those accumulated from the earnings after
the certificates were issued. An assignment of all dividends
thereafter to arise upon stock may, in law, amount to a transfer
of the stock, because it would entitle the assignee to receive all
the original stockholder could have obtained of the assets of the
corporation. But a holder of these certificates would have no
such right, and would not stand at all in the position of a stockholder towards the corporation in case of a dissolution.
"It is not asserted that these certificates give to the holder
the right to vote, and here again in an important feature, these
certificates fail to vest the holder with the rights of a stockholder.
"Tested by all the rules by which we are to determine whether
these certificates were certificates of stock, and as such entitle
the holder to the rights of a stockholder in the corporation, the
result is adverse to a conclusion in the affirmative. The tax
was intended to be imposed upon gains and profits actually appropriated by the company and derived by the stockholders.
"The section which imposed it authorizes the company to
deduct or withhold from all payments on account of any dividend due -and payable as aforesaid, the tax of 5 per cent. from
the stockholder to whom the same is payable. Can it be seriously asserted that if the New York Central Railroad Company
had withheld 5 percent. of the 80 per cent. from the amount of
its dividend next declared after it issued these certificates, and
deducted that sum from the dividends due to a stockholder, the

BAILEY

v.

RAILROAD

COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Errors assigned.

company would have been protected? The stockholder would
have insisted that he had received no additional income by
reason of the certificates, and it was not intended by the law
to tax him through the corporation for that for whi~h be could
not be taxed personally.
"Or suppose, again, the assessor had attempted to compel the
stockholder to pay a 5 per cent. tax on a sum equivalent to 80
per cent. of his stock in the company, on the ground that the
company had not deducted the tax from his dividend, would it
not be revolting to common sense to insist that he should pay
these certificates as income actually received by him, when he
had not only received no income in fact, but had not received
that from which he could enforce or derive income in the future
by any legal remedy?
"If the certificates did not represent income received by the
stockholders, they were not of the character which the law intended to reach, because the dividends subjected to the tax
were only those from which, by the act, the corporation could
deduct the 5 per cent. imposed on the income of a stockholder,
derived by him in the form of a dividend.
"My conclusion is that the tax was erroneously assessed, and
the defendant must pay the amount realized by his proceedings.'
"Had the tax been assessed upon the 'profits of such company,,carried to the account of any fund, or used for construction,' it might have been enforced for the amount actually carried to the fund or used for construction since 1862, when the
Internal Revenue Act was adopted."
i
The court thereupon directed the jury to render a verdict
for the plaintiff for the sum of $594,002.89, which the jury
did; and judgment being entered accordingly, the collector
brought the case here; assigning for error:
1. The action of the court below, on the trial, excluding
the report of the Nvew York Central Railroad Company,
and the reports of the plaintiff, offered by the defendant for
the purpose of showing that the interest certificates were
merged in the capital stock of such plaintiff in the year
1872, &c., &c.
2. The instruction of the court that the action of the New
York Central Railroad Company, as evidenced by the reso-

Oct. 1874.]

BAILEY

V. RAILROAD

617

COMPANY.

Argument in support of the tax.

-

lution and certificates issued December 19th, 1868, was not
a declaration of a dividend in scrip within the meaning of
the United States Internal Revenue Act then in force.
3. The direction given to the jury to render a verdict for
the plaintiff for $594,002.89, and the judgment given therefor.
Mr. G. H. Williarns, Attorney- General, and Mr. S. F. Phillips, for the plaintiff in error:
I. It will be admitted by opposing counsel that the resolution and certificate witness a dealing between the company and its stockholders, based upon earnings theretofore
made, in the course of which a written instrument had been
delivered by the company to each of its stockholders as evidence of Isuch earnings, and of their having been expended
in constructing and equipping the road and in the purchase
of real estate and other properties; also that they were to
be reimbursed at some convenient future period; two different methods of redeeming such instrument being left optional with the company, viz., its payment out of future earnings, or its conversion into stock, dividends thereon being in
the meantime payable at the same rates and times as qpon
shares of the capital stock.
(1.) The paper, therefore, is upon its face evidence for
each stockholder to persons with whom he may deal against
the company(a) Of previous earnings;
(b) Of the expenditure (or investment) of such earnings
to a specified large amount, in construction, equipment, and
purchase of property; and
(c) That certain dividends will accrue, pari passu, &c.,
upon the amount specified therein.
(2.) It is also upon its face notice to such stockholder and
his assignees that the company have a right to call it in
whenever it may choose, and either pay it off or convert it
into stock.
It is said by the court below that the holder of one or
more of these certificates has no rights whatever except to

S618

BAILEY V.

I-RAILROAD OOMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the tax.

the dividends mentioned; that for the principal sum mentioned in the certificate he has no promise except the optional one specified therein, and that upon the whole the
certificate effected nothing more than the substitution of
two bits of paper for one, inasmuch as the stockholder who
received it gained nothing by it which he had not before
under his certificate of stock.
We submit that, on the contrary, this double option as to
dealing with the subject-matter of the certificate does not
exhaust the duty of the company to its holder; but that over
and beyond such option it owes to such holder a duty arising
out of the nature of the transaction, a duty which is, indeed,
not technically a debt or an implied absolute assumpsit, but
is of like sort with that implied in behalf of those who hold
stock, viz., that at all events he shall have a pro rata share
in the distribution of whatever assets may remain at the dissolution of the company.
It is said also that the transaction did not vest in its stockholders any greater interest in the earnings or capital of the
company than they had before.
The same would have been true in the same sense had it
been a dividend of stock based upon earnings. The stockholder who had a beneficial interest in a tenth part of the
capital would, after receiving a dividend of stock, still have
had no more than a tenth. After receiving a dividend of a
tenth part of the stock, he would also still have had no
greater interest ii the road, rolling stock, or other capital
of the company than he had before. This would all have
remained the property of the company, and no part of it have
become, because of such dividend, property of the stockholder.* We submit that the proposition that dividends
transfer to stockholders property which previously belonged
to the company is true only of ordinary money dividends,
and never of dividends of stock. The subject-matter of a
stock dividend is a thing created, not transferred, by the declaration. It is a chose, taking the place of an (liquot share in
* Van Allen v. The Assessors, 3 Wallace, 584.

Oct. 1874.]

BAILEY V. RAILROAD

COMPANY.

619

Argument in support of the tax,

capital.* That which a stockholder obtains is not a thing
previously held by the company, but is only a definite and
formal partition of some beneficial interest in the capital of
the company, which previously he had held indefinitely and
in common with other stockholders. Of"this the certificate
is evidenwe.
Indeed, even of dividends in money the stockholder acquires no new property by the dividend. Before being declared it was his; though not set apart from capital, nor
passed into his specific control.
Again, it is said that dividends of stock do not per se, as
intimated, entitle the bolder to any additional vote in a company. Whether they do so in any particular case depends
upon the charter. The question now before the court cannot
turn upon matters merely incidental to stock, but depends
upon the nature of stock per se. So far as a stockholder is
a member of the company he has such right, but this right
does not necessarily increase with an increase of stock or
lessen with its diminution.t
Again, the test applied by the court below, i. e., a deduction or withholding of the tax paid by the company from all
payments to the stockholder on account of any dividend,
&c., would have the same bearing upon a stock dividend as
upon the transaction under consideration.
The only point in which, as occurs to us, it seems questionable whether what is objected by the court below t6 the
present transaction as a subject of taxation, is not to be objected as well to a dividend of stock, is that of the rights of
the holder of the certificate, as such, to a share in the assets
after a dissolution of the company.
Even here it seems not difficult to maintain that the
holder of such certificate is entitled, upon such dissolution,
in case the assets remain as at the time of its issue, or be
increased to the eighty dollars mentioned upon its face.
Whether upon the diminution of such assets the certificateholders would be postponed to the stockholders seems unuecFFrazer v. Seibern, 16 Ohio State, 620.
t Taylor v. Griswold, 2 Green (N. J.), 222.

BAILEY

v.

IRAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the tax.

essary to discuss. All that seems material is, to maintain
that such certificate-holders had at their issue a trust which
attached upon the assets and business of the company, as
well for principal as for interest, just as if they had been
holders of stock.
The "resolution" before the court speaks of the stockholders as being entitled to these certificates, as evidence that
certain earnings of the road had been invested to a certain
amount in that property which ordinarily constitutes railroad capital. We understand that this evidence was intended to be, like that above, evidence to parties outside;
evidence upon which bargains might be made and trading
done. This interpretation of the provision in the resolution
is borne out by the insertion of a transfer clause in the certificate.
Our views are that the company, finding that by the application of previous earnings its capital had increased in
substance by eighty per cent., not having that amount in
hand in cash, and not being authorized to issue additional
shares of stock, pressed also by some motive for enlarging
the area of the dividend-yielding subject, devised this method
of apportioning amongst its stockholders such additional
capital; distributable in the end as its other capital, subject
however to a condition, in favor of the stock, of being paid
off before.
It is said by the court below that if the tax had been
assessed upon the "profits of such company, carried to the
account of any fund, or used for construction," it might
have been enforced for the amount actually carried to the
fund, or used for construction, since 1862, &c. Admitting,
for the sake of argument, the truth of this proposition, we
submit with confidence that where a fund composed of earnings expended (i. e., invested) in construction, &c., or carried
to any account whatever, is made the basis of scrip distributed amongst the several stockholders of a company,
whatever other term in the revenue law may be applicable
thereto, the transaction creates also a partition or distribution, i. e., a dividend, a dividend in scrip.

Oct. 1874.]

BAILEY v. RAILROAD COMPANY.

621

Argument against the tax.-Assessment in violation of statute.

We find no case which bears much resemblance to the
present. But three, to which we refer, seem to throw light
upon one or other of the points under discussion.*
II. We dismiss the first assignment of error with the
suggestion that the important point being the meaning of
the transaction of December, 1868, any subsequent dealing
of the parties thereto calculated to throw light thereupon is
competent evidence of such meaning, and is on'e of the
ordinary instruments of proof. If in 1872 the New York
Central and Hudson River Railroad Company, as representative of the old New York Central Railroad Company, converted these certificates into stock, and thereby secured to
some extent dividends thereon, such act is evidence that the
parties to the transaction of 1868 regarded such certificates
as conveying to their holders more than a mere estimate of
the future business of the company and its probable future
dividends.

Messrs. Roscoe Conkling and S. T1.Fairchild,contra:
1st. The issuing of the certificates by the .New York Central
Railroad Company, on the 19th of December, 1868, was not the
declaration of a dividend in scrip, such as is made taxable by seetion 122 of the Internal Revenue law.
To fall within the section, certificates must be1st. "A dividend."
2d. A dividend "due or payable"-due or payable at
some time fixed or determinable.
3d. A dividend of part of the earnings, profits, income,
or gains of the company.
4th. A dividend of earnings, profits, income, or gains,
acquired within the year preceding the assessment, or at
least a dividend falling within the year.
What is a dividend? Is it not something set apart to be
divided, and divided at the time? Can it be a mere agreement to divide in future, contingently and conditionally, or
"" inot v. Paine, 99 MIassachusetts, 101; Boston and Lowell Railroad
Company v. Commonwealth, 100 Id. 399; Brown v. The Lehigh'Company,
49 Pennsyivania State, 270.

BAILEY V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. ot.

Argument against the tax.-No " dividend in scrip."

even positively? To make a dividend, must not a corporation part with something it has, and must not the stockholder get something he had not before? Must not something before belonging to the corporation as a whole, pass
over by distribution to the stockholders in severalty ? Must

not a debt be created as against the corporation by the declaration of a dividend ?
There was in law and in fact, at the time that these certificates were issued, nothing to divide. There were no
moneys belonging to the company on which they were
based, or with which they could be paid. The earnings, as
the certificates state, had been expended for the purpose of
constructing and equipping the road, and in the purchase
of real estate, &c.

There was *no power to create or divide stock. All the
stock had been divided before.
It cannot be argued that the corporation had at the time
divisible property to answer the certificates.
No debt was created. There is no room to suppose that
the idea or semblance of a debt entered into the transaction,
because a debt or obligation might have robbed the shareholders, by absorbing the future moneys and earnings of
the company, and by taking precedence of the stock. Such
a debt would, indeed, have imperilled the stockholders' possession of the road itself.
That these certificates, or rather that certificates more
efficacious than these, created no debt or obligation, was
decided in the cases of The Sun Insurance Company v. Mayor
of New York,* Mutual Insurance Company of Bihfflo v. Brie
CGhnty,t People, ex rel., &e.v. County of New York.1
These interest certificates bear no resemblance to stock.
Stock represents capital,-principal. Stock has absolute
and ultimate force and value between the corporation and
the holder. Each share of stock is the title to an aliquot
part of the assets and property of the corporation. Whenever the corporation is wound up the assets belong abso* 4 Selden, 241.

t 4 Comstock, 442.

$16 Nqew York, 424.

Oct. 1874.]

BAILEY V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

623

Argument against the tax.-No "dividend in scrip."

lutely and wholly to the stockholders; and while the corporation continues the stockholders govern and own it. Not
so with the certificates and their holders. While the corporation lives the holders of certificates do not vote, or
govern, or own it. They have no claim on it in any event,
except for interest on their certificates, if interest is in future
earned, and even that is contingent. And when the corporation dies, they have no claim on it for anything, and no
ownership or interest in its assets at any time. I" a stockholder owns also a certificate, lie does not, at the dissolution, receive a cent more for his certificate than he would
have done had the certificates never been issued. If one
not a stockholder becomes owner of a certificate, he acquires
no ownership in the capital or assets during the life or at
the death of the corporation.
The company in issuing these certificates parted with no
control over any property that it had. A stockholder acquired no interest whatever in anything that he did not have
before, except in another piece of paper; another evidence
of his joint ownership in property that he had a joint ownership in before, and to the same extent precisely. These
certificates and the stock certificates represent the same
property, real and personal, of every description, after the
certificates were issued that the stock certificates represented
before.
If these certificates had never been issued, the stockholders would have received precisely the same dividends
upon their stock that they now receive upon their stock and
interest certificates. It would have been a dividend of the
net profits of the company distributed among the stock certificates instead of being distributed between the stock certificates and the interest certificates.
In short. Of principal, the certificates have none; of ownership in the corporation, there is none; of obligation
binding the corporation, there is none. They are but the
contingent promise of a shadowy by and by. Something
radically different from all this is necessary to constitute a
"dividend in scrip."

624

BAILEY v. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the tax.-Assessment in violation of statute.

2.. No assessment was made which the law would tolerate in any
ease, however clear the liability to tax, even if aimed at the right
company and during its existence.
The statute under consideration, all will admit, is one of
the most arbitrary statutes ever enacted by Congress, even
in the emergency of war. It is a rigorous, a summary, and
a searching statute on the side of the United States. It requires discovery of books and papers, and compels full disclosure, punishing any shortcomings heavily. It denounces
a penalty of $1000 for disobedience to the summons of the
assessor, or for refusing to produce any books or papers in
his judgment necessary. The history of the country has
no parallel in legislation to it in some respects, in nearness
of approach to the verge of constitutional power. To be
defended, it must be preserved from perversion, and must
not be stretched by lax construction. It is justifiable by
reason of its safeguards and mitigations. Without these, it
would be tyrannous, and destructive of the fundamental
principles of the Constitution.
The fourteenth and nineteenth sections point out particfilarly in every case of defiult as to making returns, the function, power, and duty of the government assessor. These
provisions are designed to preserve something, at least in
form, of the right to due process of law. They were deemed,
by those who enacted them, not only wise and suitable, but
exacted by the principles of justice, and by the letter of the
Constitution itself.
The assessor then could do only what the statute -permitted and directed him to do; and at the time of the alleged
assessment, March 3d, 1870, he could do nothing unless the
New York Central Company was in default according to the
statute. There must have been a time certain when the
corporation was*bound to make a list or return of a "scrip
dividend" of $23,036,000, which return it neglected to make,
or made falsely. The default was a fact requisite to give
jurisdiction, and a condition precedent to any action whatever by the assessor. Assuming that defitult had been
made, the action of the assessor was illegal and void, be-

Oct. 1874.]

BAILEY

V.

RAILROAD COMPANY.

625

Argument against the tax.-Assessment against a dead company.

cause in disregard of the provisions applicable to the case.
In case of default, the act of Congress points out the way,
and the only way, in which the assessor may proceed. The
alleged delinquent must receive notice and be given a hearing with a view to "the ascertainment of liability to tax." An
inquiry must be made into the facts, and the assessor or his
deputy must view, consider, and determine judicially. Time
and opportunity must be given for appeal to the assessor.
Every one of these provisions was disregarded, and by a
mere ipse dixit, without the semblance of assessment or hearing, and without any notice known to the law, requisition
was made for $1,151,800, and $1000 penalty for failure.
11. The so-called assessment, even had it been otherwise good
in point of form, was against a company which had no existence.
The assessment, as will be seen by a reference to it,* is
in its terms throughout ail assessment against the New York
Central Railroad Company; and was made on the 3d of
March, 1870. But the New York Central Railroad Company ceased to exist on the previous 1st of November, 1869.
At the time of the assessment it had become extinct, in law
and in fact. An assessment against it, was an assessment
against a dead person. No lien could come from such an
assessment; nothing could come from it. It was absolutely
void.
Nothing, however, was lost to the United States by the
death of the New York Central Railroad Company. If,
during its lifetime, it became liable to pay a tax, that "liability" lived after the debtor's death. The statute kept it
alive and held the new corporation amenable to it. The
statute of New York preserved such a debt if it existed,
but ascribed it to the new corporation. It could not remain
with the old. No additional corporation, it must be remembered, was created by the act of consolidation. The old
New York Central Railroad Company was not left standing,
but the old company was, by the terms of the consolidating
statute, "merged and consolidated" in the new. The con* Supra, p. 611.
VOL.

X1.

40

BAILEY V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the tax.-Assessment against a dead company.

solidation obliterated and extinguished each of the old companies. There was no coeval existence of old and new for
one moment. The birth of the new was the death of the old.
The effect of this statute and the consolidations under it
have often been considered. The bar and the bench of New
York have never supposed that the service of process on the
New York Central Company after November 1st, 1869, was
of any effect whatever. Process was so served for a time
in ignorance or inadvertence, but no defence was made, no
attention was paid to it, and no fruit ever came of it.
The Court of Appeals of New York construed the act of
consolidation in this regard in Prouty v. Railroad Company.*
The syllabus of the case is as follows:
"Where two or more railroad companies are consolidated, as
far as the creditors of one of the original companies are concerned, the consolidated company is the successor of the old
company, but in respect to the properties of the other company
it is a new and independent company, and such creditors have
no claim against it upon their original contracts, but only by
virtue of the assumption of the obligations of the old company.
"A subsequent order substituting the consolidated company
and its officers as defendants was error, as it made them liable
upon the original contracts, and subjected them, and all the
funds and property of the consolidated company, to the restraints
adjudged against said old company."
The opinion thus closes:
"But however clearly it may appear that the plaintiff and
those in whose behalf the action purports to be brought are entitled to such a remedy, it can legally be obtained only in an
action against the parties named, that is, the new company,
founded upon their assumption of the liabilities of the other,
and not by the summary process of a motion to insert their
names as defendants, and then apply," &c.
Thus, bringing a suit against the old company after consolidation, and substituting a new one, was held to be wrong;
52 lew York, 363.

Oct. 1874.]

BAILEY v. RAILROAD COM2IPANY.

627

Argument against the tax.-Distraint illegal.

yet that is the sort of operation which has been attempted
here.- The assessment is against the old company. The
levy was, in fact, on the property of the new.
The principle of the decision above quoted, as well as its
application to our case, is plain. When a corporation dies,
it has no board of directors or agents. There is no authority to speak or act for it, or to employ an attorney to
speak or act for it. All this is true if the corporation be
simply extinguished; is it not more manifest when the law
creates and names a corporation to take its place, and to be
liable and responsible in every case in which the defunct
corporation was liable in its lifetime?
The words of the consolidation act, "and the respective
corporations shall be deemed to continue in existence to
preserve the same," do not help the case of the other side.
What is "preserved" by these words? "The rights of
creditors," where they exist; and also "liens," where they
exist. The words do not create a lien, and do not transfer
or transplant a lieu from the property of one to the property of another.
IV. But if a dead corporation be suable, and assessable, still
the distraint in this case was illegal. The seizure was of the property of the defendant in error, on an assessment against atother
person.
By adverting to the notice of assessment* it will be seen,
as we have just said, that it purports, in terms throughout,
to be against the New York Central Railroad Company.
The New York Central and Hudson River Railroad Company is not named in it. But the seizure was of the goods
of the New York Central and Hudson River Railroad Company; a different company from the one which had been
assessed. It is not pretended that the locomotives, cars,
&c., of the New York Central and Hudson River Railroad
seized in 1873 was the property of the New York Central
Railroad in 1870. In point of fact we may state that the
property seized had no existence in 1870.
* See it, supra, p. 611.-RE?.

BAILEY V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

It was the seizure of the goods of one man on a judgment and execution against somebody else.
As respects the reception of the evidence objected to on
the trial, we leave it on the ground then stated against its
admissibility, to wit, that it was immaterial what was done
with the certificates after they were issued; that the question was whether they were taxable by their character and
in the circumstances existing when they were issued?
Beply: We have considered that the only important quesiton in this particular sort of case-a suit in. assumpsit to
recover back a tax because the object taxed was not taxable
-was the one which we have argued, viz., whether the transaction of December 19th, 1868, made a "dividend in scrip;"
since if it was, it was taxable. As the act of consolidation
declared that as to the rights of all creditors the corporations
should be continued in existence, the New York Central
Railroad Company was the proper party to assess, even after
the so-called "merger," for what it had owed and ought to
have paid. For the rest, even admitting, argumenti gratid,
the irregularity of the assessment, so far as mere form is
concerned, yet if the New York Central and Hudson River
Company is really bound for the tax, and on a more formal
mode of assessment would have to pay it, the court would
not affirm the judgment in the present sort of suit, only because a tax which could be properly collected by the observance of certain forms had been informally got. It would
have to affirm the judgment on grounds not going to the
merits, but going to form only, and therefore irrespective
%
of merits.
Independently of which, the New York Central and Hudson River Railroad Company suffered nothing by disregard
of form. It had an ample hearing, and on the hearing had
an. immense reduction of the tax as assessed.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD, having stated the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
Authority to tax the plaintiffs in this case, if it existed at

Oct. 1874.]

BAILEY V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

629

Opinion of the court.

all was derived from that clause of the Internal Revenue
Act which provides to the effect that dividends declared by
a railroad company, in scrip or money, due and payable tc
their stockholders, as part of the earnings, profits, income,
or gains of such company, and all profits of such company
carried to the account of any fund or used for construction,
are proper subjects of taxation, and that the company declaring such dividends in scrip or money shall pay a tax of
5 per centum on the amount of all such interest or coupons,
dividends or profits, whenever and wherever and to whatsoever party or person the same may be payable.
Unless the authority to tax the plaintiffs was derived from
that provision it is clear that it did not exist, and it is equally
clear that it was not derived from that provision unless the
certificates issued by the company to their stockholders are
dividends of scrip within the meaning of the act levying the
tax in controversy.
Viewed in that light, as the question should be, it is evident that the first instruction given by the court to the jury
is the exact equivalent of the second, as it is clear that if
the certificates issued by the company to their stockholders
are not dividends in scrip within 'the true intent and meaning of that provision, the taxation of the company was unauthorized by law, and the plaintiffs were, in view of the evidence, entitled to a verdict. These instructions,, therefore,
may be considered together, and inasmuch as they involve
the whole merits of the controversy they will be examined
in advance of the exceptions to the ruling of the court.
Sufficient appeared to obviate the necessity for any extended reply to the suggestions that the certificates were
not issued by the plaintiffs, or that the assessment was made
to one of the old companies, which for many purposes went
out of existence when the consolidated company was formed.
All of these imaginary difficulties, which were the subject
of repeated reference at the argument, are forever silenced
by the legislative act of the State under which the plaintiffs
came into existence.
By that act it is provided that the rights of all creditors

BAILEY V. IRAILROAD

O0MPANY.

[Sup. Cr.

Opinion of the court.

of, and of all liens upon, the property of the corporations,
parties to the agreement and the act, shall be preserved unimpaired and the respective corporations shall be deemed to
continue in existence to preserve the same, and all debts
and liabilities incurred by either of the corporations, except
mortgages, shall thenceforth attach to such new corporation
and be enforced against it and its property to the same extent as if such debts or liabilities had been incurred or contracted by such new company.*
Apply that rule to the case and it follows that by virtue
of that provision the new company formed by the act of
consolidation assumed all the obligations of the old companies, except mortgages;. or, in other words, that all debts
and all liabilities, except mortgages, incurred by either of
those companies attached to such new corporation and became enforceable against the same and their property to the
same extent as if such debts or liabilities had been incurred
or contracted by such newv corporation.
Attempt is made in argument to question the soundness
of that proposition as applied to the case before the court,
and reference is made to the case of Prouty v. Railroad Company,t as promulgating irule of decision inconsistent with
the theory that the new corporation became liable for the
internal revenue tax in question, or that the tax became enforceable against such corporation or their property, but the
court here is of the opinion that the case cited supports the
proposition that the payment of the tax in question is one
of the obligations which the new company assumed when
the consolidation became complete, as the liability to such
taxation, on the part of the old company, existed before the
consolidation was formed, and that the liability to pay the
same attached to the new corporation and became enforceable against the same and their property to the same extent
as if such liability had been incurred or contracted by such
new corporation.
* 2 Sessions Acts of New York, 1869, chapter 917, page 2402.
t 52 New York, 366.

Oct. 1874.]

BAILEY V. RAILROAD COMPANY.
Opinion of the court.

Power was conferred by the legislative act to form the
consolidation, subject to the condition that all debts and
liabilities incurred by either company, except mortgages,
should thenceforth attach to the new corporation and be enforceable against such new corporation and their property,
and all the Court of Appeals decided in the case referred to,
which is applicable to this case, is that the consolidated
company in such a case becomes responsible for the debts
and liabilities of the old companies only by virtue of the
assumption of those obligations as part of the terms of the
consolidation, which is sufficient to show that the theory of
the plaintifis cannot be sustained:
Scrip dividends as well as dividends in money, it must be
admitted, are proper objects of taxation under that section
of the Internal Revenue Act, and the same section provides
that a list or return shall be made and rendered to the
assessor or assistant assessor, on or before the tenth day of
the month following that in which the interest, coupons, or
dividends become due and payable, and as often as every
six months, which shall contain a true and faithful account
of the amount of the tax, verified under oath by the president or treasurer of the company.
Payment of the tax is required of the company, and for
any default in making or rendering such list or return, or
of the payment of the tax or any part thereof, the company
making such default shall forfeit as a penalty the sum of
one thousand dollars, and the assessment and collection of
the tax and penalty, in case of such default,'shall be made
according to the provisions of law in other cases of neglect
or refusal.
Except where the stockholder is exempt from such an exaction the tax may properly be assessed against the company
required to render the return, and it is the company which
is to make the payment and which becomes liable to the
penalty in case of default.*
Liabilities of the kind do not attach to the company in
* Barnes v. The Railroads, 17 Wallace, 303.

BAILEY V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

cases where the stockholder is exempt by law from such al
exaction, as the same section of the act provides that the
company in such a case is authorized to deduct and withhold the amount of the tax from all payments on account of
such interest or coupons and dividends, which cannot have
any application in a case where the stockholder is by law
exempt from any such exaction.*
Exemptions of the kind constitute an exception to the
general rule, as the tax, in cases where no such exemption
exists, may be assessed against the railroad company.t
None of these propositions are controverted by the plaintifs, but they insist that the amount which they paid for
the tax in this case should be refunded for the following
reasons: (1.) Because, as they insist, the scrip in question is
not a dividend in scrip within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Act. (2.) Because the assessment was illegal
and void even if the scrip is a proper subject of taxation
and the assessment is made against the proper party. '(3.)
Because the railroad company assessed ceased to exist, and
became extinct before the assessment was made. (4.) Because the distraint was illegal, inasmuch as the goods of
one party were seized to pay a tax assessed against another
party.
1. For years the old company had earned moneys greatly
in excess of their current expenses without any satisfactory
scheme being suggested to render such accumulating surplus available to their stockholders, as they were not authorized to increase their capital stock and were forbidden by
law to make dividends for the benefit of the stockholders
beyond tell per cent. Difficulties of the kind existing, the
excess of earnings beyond current expenses had been expended in constructing and equipping their railroad and in
the purchase of real estate and other properties with a view
to the increase of their traffic.
Accumulations of the kind had been appropriated in that
* United States v Railroad Company, i7 Wallace, 327.
t Stockdale v. Insurance Company, 20 Id. 323.

Oct. 1874.]

BAILEY v. RAILROAD COMPANY.
Opinion of the court.

way until the same amounted in the aggregate to a sum
equal to eighty per cent. of the capital stock of the company.
Dissatisfaction arose among the stockholders, and all admitted that they were entitled to evidence that the excess
of the earnings of the company beyond the current expenses
had been appropriated in that way, and to reimbursement
of the same at some convenient future period.
Motives, such as those recited, induced the company to
grant the certificates, and they were accordingly issued to
the stockholders, severally declaring on their face that such
stockholder is entitled to eighty per cent. of the amount of
the capital stock held by him, payable ratably with the
other certificates issued under the same resolution, at the
option of the company, out of their future earnings, with
dividends thereon at the same rates and times as dividends
shall be paid on the shares of the capital stock of the company; or they may be, at the option of the company, converted into stock whenever the company shall be authorized
to increase their capital stock to an amount sufficient for
such conversion.
Interest certificates of the kind were issued as evidence to
the stockholders that an equal amount of the earnings of
the company beyond current expenses had been expended"
for the objects stated in the preamble of the certificates, and
to show that the respective stockholders were entitled to reimbursement of such expenditure at some convenient future
period, and also to show that the stockholders were entitled
to dividends on the same whenever dividends were paid on
the shares of the capital stock, and that the certificates were
to be paid out of the future earnings of the company, or to
be converted, at the option of the company, into stock, if
thereafter authorized to exercise that option.
Such a paper, therefore, by whatever name it may be
called, is, upon its face, evidence for each stockholder, to
persons with whom he may have dealings, of the amount of
the previous net earnings' of the company; that such net
earnings, to the amount specified, have been expended in
constructing and equipping the railroad and in the purchase

BAILEY V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

of real estate and other properties appertaining to the same,
and that the holders of the certificates will be entitled to
dividends whenever dividends are paid upon the capital
stock.
By the terms of the paper it is stated that it may be transferred on the books of the company, and the form of the
transfer is appended to the same, which also shows that the
transferee, like the original holder, will be entitled to be
reimbursed for the amount of the expenditure therein certified at some convenient future period, unless the company
should elect to convert the same into the stock of the company instead of paying the same ratably out of their future
earnings.
Stockholders to whom such certificates were issued, it is
insisted by the plaintiffs, acquired no rights whatever by
virtue of the instruments beyond what they had before, except the right to accruing dividends, but it is clear that the
proposition is founded in mistake, as the certificates possessed every quality of stock except that they conferred no
power to vote and may be redeemed by payment out of the
future earnings of the company. Like stock certificates
they are made conveniently transferable, as they may be
transferred upon the books of the company, and possess an
equal value with stock when used as collateral security or
as the basis of credit in any moneyed transaction.
Money dividends could not lawfully be made to exceed
ten per cent., and inasmuch as the law of the State forbade
the company to increase their capital stock they devised the
scheme of issuing these certificates to their stockholders as
evidence that such expenditure of the net earnings of the
company had been made, in the manner stated, and that
the stockholders were entitled to reimbursement of the same
at some convenient future period; and in order that the
certificates might approximate as near as possible to stock,
without exposing the compahy to the hazard of an actual
addition to the same, in violation of law, they provided that
the holders of the certificates should be entitled to dividends
whenever dividends were paid by the company on the shares

Oct. 1874.]

BAILEY V. RAILROAD COMPANY.
Opinion of the court.

of the capital stock, and that the certificates themselves
should either be paid ratably out of the future earnings of
the company, or be converted into stock at the option of the
company.
Bond fide holders of the certificates might demand that
the certificates should be paid out of the future earnings of
the company, or that they should be converted into stock
whenever the company should be authorized to increase
their capital to an amount sufficient for the purpose, and
that they should have a pro rata share in the distribution
of whatever assets may remain at the dissolution of the
company.
Stock dividends it is conceded are a proper object of taxation under the Internal Revenue Act, and if so, it is difficult to see why those certificates are not, as they differ from
the former only in the fact that they do not confer the right
to vote and that they may be cancelled by payment out of
the future earnings of the company.
No attempt is made in argument to show that the fact
that the company has reserved the right to pay the certificates out of their future earnings exempts them from liability to taxation under that act, and it is clear that the fact
that they do not confer the right to vote cannot have any
such effect, as dividends in stock do not necessarily entitle
the holder to any additional vote. Whether they do so or
not depends in any particular case upon the terms of the
certificate and the charter of the company.*
Usually a stockholder is a member of the company and as
such has a right to vote, but it does not necessarily follow
that the right increases with the increase of stock, or that
the right is lessened in case the number of shares owned by
the stockholder should be diminished.
Net earnings of such a company may be expended or invested in constructing or equipping the railroad, or in the
purchase of real estate or other 'properties, but the investment, whatever it may be, belongs to the stockholders, and
* Taylor v. Griswold, 2 Green (New Jersey), 226.

BAILEY

r.

IRAILROAD

COMPANY.

[$up. Or.

Opinion of the court.

may be distributed, as they may direct, in dividends of stock
or of scrip or of money, payable out of the future earnings
of the company, or by a sale of property not necessary to
effect the purposes for which the company was created.
Deductions such as are authorized by the second clause
of the section imposing the tax in this case cannot be made
in the case of a dividend of stock any more than in the case
of a dividend in scrip, which of itself is a complete answer
to the proposition that the certificates are not the proper
objects of taxation because they cannot be subjected to such
deduction, it being conceded that certificates of stock are
the proper objects of such taxation.
Corporation bonds are the representatives of money, because they are issued for sale in negotiable form, but certificates of stock are not securities for money, nor are they negotiable instruments in the strict commercial sense. Like
dividends in. scrip they are simply muniments of and evidence of the holder's title to a described share or interest in
the property and franchises of the corporation, and the dividend in scrip evidences the same extent of interest in such
property and franchise as the dividend of stock, except that
it is the right of the company to pay the same out of their
future earnings, and that the dividend in scrip confers no
right to vote.*
Much discussion to show that a dividend in scrip declared
by a railroad as part of their earnings, profits, income, or
gains is the proper subject of taxation by virtue of the Internal Revenue Act is scarcely necessary, as the express
words of the act are that such a dividend "shall be subject
to and pay a tax of five per centum whenever and wherever
and to whatsoever party or person the same may be payable."t
Taken in a general sense the stock of an incorporated
company may be defined to mean the capital of the company in the form of tra.nsferable shares of a specified amount,
but the word is frequently employed in a much more re* Bank v. Railroad, 13 New York, 627; Bank v. Burr, 24 Maine, 264.
- State v. Bank, 11 Ohio, 95.

Oct. 1874.]

BAILEY V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

637

Opinion of the court.

styicted sense. Stock, when it means anything else than the
capital of a corporation, usually refers to the interests of
the respective shareholders, and the aggregate of those interests may with propriety in many cases be denominated
the stock of the corporation. *
Unless otherwise provided by the charter or by-laws of a
corporation the profits and surplus funds of a corporation,
whenever they have accrued, are, until separated from the
capital by the declaring of a dividend, a part of the stock
itself and will pass with the stock under this name in a transfer or bequest.t
Purchasers of stock have a right to claim and receive all
dividends subsequently declared, no matter when the fund
appropriated for the purpose was earned, whether before or
after the transfer and delivery of the certificates constituting the evidence of ownership.1
As a general rule stock dividends, even when they represent net earnings, become at once a part of the capital of
the company, and, of course, entitle the holder to vote, unless
it is otherwise provided in the charter or by-laws. Such a
dividend, if earned and declared, necessarily increases the
value of the old stock if new stock is not issued, and in that
mode reaches substantially the same result.
By the terms of the act a dividend in scrip, declared by
such a company as a part of its earnings, &c., is subject to
the described tax whenever or wherever or to whatsoever
party or person the same shall be payable. What is required to be due is the scrip and not the fund, money, or
proceeds which it represents. Beyond doubt such scrip becomes operative and due within the meaning of the Revenue
Act when it is unconditionally declared without containing
any provision postponing its effect.
These certificates are not dividends in money, nor are they
People v. Commissioners, 23 New York, 220.
f Iron Company v. Commonwealth, 53 Pennsylvania State, 451 ; Brundage
v. Brundage, 1 Thompson & Cook, 90; Phelps v. Bank, 26 Connecticut, 269.
March v. Railroad, 43 New Hampshire, 516.
Railroad v. Commonwealth, 100 Massachusetts, 404.

BAILEY V. IAILROAD

OM[PAaNY.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

stock or certificates of stock in the strict sense, but they are
exactly what they are described to be in the Revenue Act,
to wit, dividends in scrip, which entitles the holder to just
what he is promised in the instrument, or, in other words,
his right must be determined by the contract under which

alone he can claim, and that contract is found in the scrip
,issued by the company.*
Funds set apart as capital out of which debts are to be
paid, it is held, amounts to a contract with those who become creditors on the faith of the transaction that the fund
shall not be withdrawn and appropriated to the use of the
owner or owners of the capital stock, and the court is of the
opinion that the vote of the company issuing these certificates is a valid contract of the company with the holders of
the certificates that the same shall be paid, at some convenient period, out of the future earnings of the company,
unless the company, when thereto authorized, elect to convert the same into capital stock.t
Tested by these considerations it is quite clear that the
first instruction given by the court to the jury is erroneous.
2. Suppose that is so, still it is insisted by the plaintiffs
that the judgment should be affirmed even if the scrip is the
proper subject of taxation, because the assessment, though
made against the proper party, is in other respects illegal
and void.
Mere irregularities may be passed over without remark,
as the suit is an action of assumpsit brought'by the plaintiffs
to recover back money which they paid to the collector, and
the burden is upon them to show that the defendant ex equo
et bono is bound to refund the amount which they paid.1
lndebitatus assumpsit is founded upon what the law terms an
implied promise on the part of the defendant to pay what
in good conscience he is bound to pay to the plaintiff.
* Brown v. Coal and Navigation Company, 49 Pennsylvania State, 273;

People v. New York, 16 New York, 427.
t Insurance Company v. Mayor, 4 Selden, 260; Same v. Supervisors, 4
Comstock, 445.
$ Swift v. Poughkeepsie, 37 New York, 512.

Oct. 1874.]

BAILEY V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

639

Opinion of the court.

Where the case shows that it is the duty of the defendant to
pay, the law imputes a promise to fulfil that obligation, but
the law never implies a promise to pay unless some duty
creates such an obligation, and more especially it never implies a promise to do an act contrary to duty or contrary to
law.*
Throughout the argument for the plaintiffs it is admitted
that they never complied with the requirement which made
it their duty to make and render a list or return to the
assessor or assistant assessor of the interest, coupons, or
dividends described in the Internal Revenue Act as the
proper objects of taxation.
Complaint is made that the assessor did not pursue the
directions of the fourteenth section of the Internal Revenue
Act before he made the assessment in this case, but the
powers there given the assessor were conferred for the benefit of the United States. Taxpayers, if they make the reL
quired return, will have no cause to complain that the
assessor did not issue a summons to them or those representing such taxpayer to appear and give evidence upon the
subject, or that the assessor did not enter the place where
the taxpayer resides and make the examination of his books
and papers as authorized by that section of the act. Doubtless he may do so if he deems it necessary, but the tax is
not rendered illegal if the assessor omits to procure the necessary information in that way. Steps of the kind may be
taken by the assessor or they may be omitted, but he is required to give a written notice to the taxpayer requiring
him to render the described list or return within a specified
time, and the record shows that the assessor did substantially comply with that requirement.
Due notice of the assessment was also given, and the
record shows that the plaintiffs appealed to the commis-'
sioner with a degree of success rarely ever surpassed, as it
appears that they induced the commissioner to abate six
* Curtis v. Fiedler, 2 Black, 478; Cary v. Curtis, 3 Howard, 236; Philadelphia v. Collector, 5 Wallace, 732; Elliott v. Swartwout, 10 Peters, 150;
Bend v. Hoyt, 13 Id. 267

BAILEY V. RAILROAD

COMPANY.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

hundred and ninety-two thousand and eighty dollars'of the
tax, or nine-fifteenths of the same, with the whole penalty,
though the plaintifl now suggest in argument that they, if
liable at all, are liable for the whole amount. Whether or
not they are liable for the whole amount is not a question
in this case, but the court is very clearly of opinion that the
instruction given by the Circuit Court to the jury that they
should render their verdict for the plaintiffs is erroneous,
unless it shall appear that there is greater merit in the third
and fourth objections to the assessment than is found in the
first or the one under consideration.
Irregularity in giving the notice of the assessment is now
certainly unimportant, as it is required chiefly to enable the
party assessed to appeal and claim a review of the action
of the commissioner. Such an appeal having been granted
and all rights under it fully exercised and enjoyed, it is now
too late to object that the notice of the assessment was
irregular.*
3. Enough has already been remarked to show that there
is no merit in the third objection to the assessment, as the
act providing for the consolidation of the two companies
enacts that the liabilities of the old company assessed in this
case may be enforced against the new corporation and their
property to the same extent as if such liabilities had been
incurred or contracted by such new company.
4. Nor is there any merit in the fourth objection to the
assessment, as the complaint is the same in principle as that
contained in the third, and is decided to be unfbunded for
the same reason.
Most or all of these Qbjections were sustained by the Circuit Court, and it was in view of their merit and influence
that the presiding justice instructed the jury to render a
verdict for the plaintiffs. Evidently that instruction is erroneous as well as the first instruction, and for these reasons
the judgment must be reversed. Having come to that conclusion it is unnecessary to enter into any extended discus* State v. Dulle, 48 Missouri, 287.

Oct. 1874.]

UNITED STATES V.

O'GRADY.

Statement of the case.

sion of the exception to the ruling. of the court in excluding
certain evidence offered by the defendant. Suffice it to say
that the court here is of the opinion that the ruling is erroneous; that the evidence was properly admissible as explanatory of the surrounding circumstances.

Judgment REVERSED with costs, and the cause remanded
with directions to issue
A NEW VENIIE.

UNITED STATES V. O'GRADY.
WY'hen the government means to set up any counterclaim to the claim of a
party suing in the Court of Claims, as ex. gr., when on a suit under the
Captured and Abandoned Property Act, to recover the proceeds of cotton sold under that act, it means to set up a tax, such as what is known
as the "cotton tax,' it must plead that tax by way of set-off or counterclaim to the suit, as is contemplated by the act of March 3d, 1863; or
move for a new trial, under the provisions of the act of June 25th, 1868.
It cannot, after judgment has been given for the amount claimed by the
petitioner, irrespective of such counterclaim, and without any motion
for a new trial having been made, set up and deduct at the treasury the
counterclaim when the amount awarded by the decree of the court is
asked for there.

from the Court of Claims; the case being thus:
By the act organizing the Court of Claims, A.D. 1855,
power was given to it to hear and determine all claims
agaihst the Uhited States founded upon any law of Congress,
or upon any regulation of an executive department, or upon
any contract, express or implied, with the government of
the United States.*
Doubts, however, were suggested immediately upon the
act going into practical operation and on suits being brought
against the United States, whether the act meant to allow
the United States to file set-offs in such suits, and to give
jurisdiction to the court to hear and determine them in the
APPEAL

* Act of February 24th, 1855 (10 Stat. at Large, 612).
VOL. X=.

41

