Oct. 1874.]

HAMPTON V. ROUSE.
Syllabus.

concessions. There can be no hardship in applying the doctrine of Bissell v. Penrose to the facts of this case. After the
lapse of more than sixty years Labeaume's title is disputed
in behalf of persons who never appeared before the commissioners with any claim of their own. In that early day
there must have been great ignorance among the people of
the forms of leg.al papers. And this fact was; doubtless,
considered by the commissioners in reaching the conclusion
which they did.- They treated the papers of Labeaume as
a transfer to him of all the interest that the heirs of Dodier
had in the premises, and having the power to adjudicate the
title to the claimant on such papers as he presented, their
decision, having been confirmed by Congress, whether right
or wrong, is final.
An attempt was made in this case to show that the persons
from whom the plaintiffs seek to deduce their title were
claimants before the board of commissioners, but this attempt wholly failed.* It is unnecessary to discuss the piece
of evidence introduced for this purpose, for the Supreme
Court of Missouri in their opinion have said all that can be
said on the subject.t
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

HAMPTON V. ROUSE.
I. Under a statute which enacts that the "owner," may within a time
named, redeem land sold for taxes, a redemption may properly be made
by a person who has been decreed a bankrupt, the lands having been
his. In the case here before the court there had as yet been no appointment of an assignee, nor assignment and conveyance to such person, as provided for in the fourteenth section of the Bankrupt Act of
1867; and the redemption was made between the date of the decree and
of such appointment.
2. A charge that a person who had been decreed a bankrupt on his own ap.
* See Statement, upra, p. 264.
f Connoyer v. Schaeffer, 48 Missouri, 166.

HAMPTON V. RousE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
plication had by such decree ceased to be owner and had lost the right to
redeem, held to be erroneous; there having been evidence tending to
show a redemption by such a person.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
Mississippi; the case being thus:
A valuable plantation in Mississippi belonging to Wade
Hampton, and at the time in his possession, though mortgaged by him, was sold on the lth of April, 1867, to John
Rouse, under a statute of the State just named, entitled
"An act to incorporate the Board of Levee Commissioners,
&c."* This act gives to this board power to assess taxes on
lands such as the plantation of Hampton was, and if the
taxes are not paid to have the sheriff sell the lands.
It contains, however, this provision on the subject of redemption:

"The sheriff's deed, however, for all lands sold for taxes, shall
be and remain with the probate clerk; and should the owner or
owners of said land, their agents or attorneys, apply, they, or
either of them, shall be entitled to the redemption of said land at
any time within two years of the day of sale, upon the payment of
the purchase-money, &c., &c. This redemption may be made
from the levee treasurer or from the probate clerk where the
sheriff's deed is kept."
In this state of things Hampton, on the 29th of December,
1868,. applied for the benefit of the Bankrupt Act, and on
the 17th of April, 1869, was decreed a bankrupt under it.
On the 19th, an assignee in bankruptcy was appointed.
The Bankrupt Act of March 2d, 1867, the now existing
act and the one under which Hampton was decreed bankrupt, enacts :t
"SE cTION 11. If any person owing debts provable under this
act exceeding the amount of $300, shall apply by petition to the
judge of the judicial district in which such debtor has resided,
. . setting forth his inability to pay all his debts in full, his
willingness to surrender all his estate and effects for the benefit
* Laws of Missouri for 1865, p. 60.t 15 Stat. at Large, 522.

Oct. 1874.]

8HAMPTON V. ROUSE.
Statement of the case.

of his creditors, and shall annex to his petition a schedule containing a full and true statement of all his debts, . . . also an
accurate inventory, . . . of all his- estate, such petitioner shall

be adjudged a bankrupt."
The same section of the act, at its close, further directs
that the district judge in that state of the case, shall issue
a warrant directed to the marshal of the district, authorizing him to publish notices in such newspapers as the
warrant specifies; to serve written or printed notices on all
creditors named in the schedule filed with the petition of
the applicant, and to give such notice to all concerned as
the warrant directs, which notice shall state as follows:
(1.) That such a warrant has been issued.
(2.) That the payment of debts or the delivery or transfer
of property to the debtor is forbidden by law.
(3.) That the creditors will meet, on a day therein named,
to prove their debts and choose an assignee.
The twelfth section enacts that at the meeting of the creditors, such as the preceding section contemplates, one of the
registers of the District Court shall preside, and that the
creditors in his presence shall choose one or more assignees
of the estate of the debtor.
The act then goes on in its fourteenth section thus:
"As soon as said assignee is appointed and qualified, the judge,
or, where there is no opposing interest, the register,... shall by
an instrument under his hand assign and convey to the assignee
all the estate real and personal of the bankrupt, with all his
deeds, books, and papers relating thereto; and such assignment shall relate back to the commencement of said proceedings in
bankruptcy, and thereupon, by operation of law, the title to all such
property and estate, both real and personal, shall vest in said assignee."
The Bankrupt Act of 1841* differed, as to the mode and
time of appointing the assignee in bankruptcy, from the
now existing and above-quoted act of 1867. It ran thus:
"SECTION 3. That all the property and rights of property, ...
* 5 Stat. at Large, 443.

HAMPTON V.

ROUSE.

[sup. Cr.

Statement of the case.

of every bankrupt . . . shall, by mere operation of law, ipso
facto,'from the time of such decree be deemed to be divested out
of such bankrupt without any other act or conveyance whatsoever; and the same shall be vested by force of the same decree
in such assignee, as, from time to time, shall be appointed by the
proper court for the purpose."
Hampton being still in possession of his land, Rouse now
brought ejectment against him for it; and on the trial Hampton offered to prove that on the 10th day'of April, 1869-that
is to say, "within two years of the day of sale," the same
having been made as above stated on the 11th of April,
1867-his son, as his agent, offered to redeem the land, under
circumstances which made the offer equivalent to a redemption.
The son testified in substance thus:
"On the 10th of April, 1869, 1 went as agent of Wade Hampton to the office of 3Mr. Haycroft, the levee treasurer, and offered
to redeem the lands in controversy. I had the means to redeem
the lands. There were so many applicants waiting to redeem
lands before me that I could not then be attended to. The press
of business in the treasurer's office prevenied my redeeming the
lands when 1 -went on the 10th of April, and that pressure continued until the time of redemption had passed.
"The means which I had were levee bonds. They were my
means and not my father's. They were in the hands of Mr.
Haycroft, in his office. Some of them had been converted into
currency. I do not know how much. The proceeds of some
of these bonds had been applied to the redemption of another
estate, which was redeemed entirely out of them.
"When I applied to redeem these lands, in controversy, Mr.
Haycroft exhibited a map of the county to me, and it was perfectly understood between him and myself what lands I wished
to redeem, and also the taxes of what year. He knew at the
time what means were to be used in redeeming said lands, and
he made no objection, and the only reason why the lands were
not then redeemed was because of the press of business in his
office."
Mr. Haycroft, the levee treasurer, referred to above, testified that he occasionally sold the levee bonds, such as just

Oct. 1874.]

HAMPTON V.

R OUSE.

Argument in support of the redemption.

above spoken of, as au accommodation to taxpayers, and
with the proceeds paid the redemption-money; that hd had
done so in the case of other lands for Hampton; but that it
was no part of -his official duty so to sell bonds and apply
the proceeds; that in this case he had told Hampton's son
that he would have to pay in currency. He added, however, that the applications for redemption oii the 10th of
April, 1869, were so numerous that he could not on that
day have attended to the redemption of these lands under
any circumstances; and that on the 11th the time expired.
The court charged the jury,
"That Wade Hampton, having been adjudged a bankrupt on
his own application, after the land was sold for the taxes, had
thereby ceased to be the owner of the land, and had lost the
right to redeem."
And this charge was assigned for error.
Messrs. James Lowndes and W. W. Boyce, for the plaintfif in
error:
It is clear that under the eleventh and twelfth sections of
the Bankrupt Act, the decree in bankruptcy does not, under
the present Bankrupt Act, divest the debtor of his estate,
though under the act of 1841 it did do so in terms. Under
the present act the decree only settles the fact that the
debtor is a bankrupt; that is to say that he cannot now pay
his debts as they come due.
It is by what is prescribed in the fourteenth section as to
be done-that is to say, by the appointment of the assignee
and the assignment and conveyance to be executed, "as
soon as said assignee is appointed," that the debtor's property is divested. Nqow, as no assignee was appointed in this
case, nor any assignment or conveyance made until several
days after the offer to redeem was made. it can only be
through the words at the close of the paragraph which declares that "such assignment shall relate back, &c.," that it
can be pretended that the redemption was of no effect. But
while the assignment and conveyance vest the assignee with

HAMPTON V. IROUSE.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument in support of the redemption.

"the title to all such property and estate" as the bankrupt
had when the proceedings were begun, it does not follow
that they vest him with that title wholly unaffected by what
has been lawfu~ly done as to the estate *in the meantime;
what has been done by way of benefit to the estate. If, for
example, a debtor at the time when the proceedings in bankruptcy were begun, had land heavily charged by mortgage,
and by the voluntary act of the mortgagee the mortgage
were satisfied, would the assignee take the land still subject
to the mortgage or discharged from it? or if the debtor or
any one else put on the land valuable improvements, would
the assignee get those improvements or not get them? We
suppose that the assignee in one case would take the laud
clear of the mortgage, and in, the other would take it improved by tthe new erections. In the case now before the
court, a defeasible estate is made by the act of the debtor,
between the time of the decree and that of the assignment
and conveyance, an indefeasible one. In this case as in the
former ones, we suppose that the assignee-in other words
the creditors or the assets-get the benefit of what is done.
They still get "all the title to all such property and estate."
But even if the estate were vested in the assignee the old
owner could redeem. I. In Dubois v. Repburn,* this court said:
"Any right which in law or equity amounts to an ownership
in the land; any right of entry upon it, to its possession or enjoyment, or anypartof it which can be deemed an estate, makes the
person the owner, so far as it is necessary to give him the right to
redeem."
Now, though a man may be a bankrupt-that is to say,
though he may be unable to pay all his debts as they fall due,
and though his estate may be passed accordingly to his assignee in bankruptcy-it does not follow that the debtor may
not himself afterwards, from other property, coming to him
by descent or gift or other good fortune, pay all his debts;
nor follow that without this good fortune of any kind the as* 10 Peters, 1.

Oct. 1874.]

H AMPTON V. 1-.OUSE.

Argument in support of the redemption.

signee may not, with the proceeds of the assigned estate, pay
all the debts and return a surplus to the former debtor. The
debtor has, therefore, "a right which in equity amounts to
an ownership." He has a right to pay the debts, and if he
do pay them, all the estate is his; or if the assignee pay
them from a part of the estate assigned, all the residue of
the estate is equally his. Such an interest, says the abovecited case," makes the person owner so far as it is necessary.
to give him the right to redeem;" for that case makes "any
(possible) right of enjoyment of any part of it enough," if
that part carn be called an estate. Indeed it is only by a
liberal construction of the word "owner" that an assignee
in bankruptcy can redeem. Strictly speaking he is but a
trustee to pay debts, and return any balance to the debtor.
It may be here observed that long since the case of Dubois
v. Repburn, this court has twice construed statutes authorizing redemption from taxes, with the utmost benignity. The
cases of Bennet v. Hunter, in 9th Wallace,* and Tracy v. Irwin,
in the 18th of the same reports,t show this; the former case
deciding that any person may act as the owner's agent to
redeem, and that the action of such person if ratified by the
proper party operates as a redemption. If it were necessary
to enlarge the scope of Dubois v. Hepburn these cases minister the means. But it is not necessary.
We assert, therefore, that notwithstanding the retroactive
words of the fourteenth section of the Bankrupt Act of
1867, Hampton had still the right to redeem. No doubt
the assignee also had. So indeed had any creditor; or, if the
proper person ratified the act of redemption, any person
whatever. It would certainly be monstrous if an estate
worth $100,000, which had been sold for $500 tax, should
be wholly lost to creditors because the bankrupt owner had
no right to redeem and the assignee as yet no money to do so;
or because the time for redemption expired between the time
of filing the petition and the appointment of the assignee.
II. If our views are at all correct, then the charge was
* Page 338.

t Page 650; and see Patterson v. Brindle, 9 Watts, 29.

HAMPTON v. ROUSE.

[Sup. Or.

Argument against the redemption.

wrong. We assert that under the two last cases above cited
from Wallace, that which was in law a tender was made.
But whether or not, evidence was certainly given tending to
show that a tender was made; and if such evidence was
given, the charge was equivalent to having rejected the evidence on the trial. To have done this would have been
error.
Mr. P. Phillips, contra:
The fourteenth section of the Bankrupt Act enacts that
"the assignment shall ' relate back' to the commencement of
the proceedings in bankruptcy ;" and thereupon, "by operation of law," the title to all the property of the bankrupt shall vest
in the assignee. The present act herein goes further than did
the act of 1841. Under the third section of that act the
bankrupt's estate was divested out of him ipso facto by the
decree. But so, too, under that act, the assignee in bankruptcy was appointed by the court, at the moment of the
decree made. In fact, in some courts, the assignee was
always the same person in all cases; so that he was really a
permanent officer of the court existing previously to the decree. There was thus a person in whom the estate could,
on the divestiture from the bankrupt, immediately vest.
The present act, we say, goes further, and means to vest the
bankrupt's property in his assignee from the time that proceedings are begun-from the time, namely, that the debtor
himself has proclaimed that he was bankrupt, or is shown
by his creditors to have been so. And, why should it not
so vest it? The bankrupt's estate ought to pass from him
from that time if bankrupt acts are to prevail at all. But
this difficulty occurred here. Under the present act the
assignee is not an officer of the court, but is appointed in
each case by the creditors, pro re nate. He cannot be appointed, therefore,.until after the petition is filed, in other
words, until after "the commencement of the proceedings."
The creditors must have notice of them, and meet before
they can appoint the assignee. If, therefore, the act had said
that the estate of the debtor "shall be divested from him on

Oct. 1874.]

HAMPTON V. ROUSE.
Argument against the redemption.

the commencement of proceedings in bankruptcy," there
would be no one in whom it could vest. It would be in
nubibus. It accordingly leaves it to the assignment to divest
the estate, but declares that "such assignment shall relate
back to the commencement of the proceedings."
But whatever may have been the reason for the special
character of the enactments, the language of the fourteenth
section is positive; and under the enactment made by it all
the property of Hampton, as he owned it, on the day when
he filed his petition, vested in the assignee. Thhs vesting,
Hampton was not "owner" of it when the alleged offer to
redeem was made. The assignee was owner, and he alone
had power to redeem.
The statute of Mississippi doubtless uses the word
"owner" in the sense in which people ordinarily use it.
Now, people do not ordinarily call a mal owner of al estate
after a bankrupt act has, even by relation back, divested
him of the estate which he once had. A person may be interested in an estate-a lien-creditor is directly interested,
and every creditor is interested indirectly-but he is not
owner in either a legal or a popular sense.
The case, therefore, does not come within any expressions
in Dubois v. .epburn, nor is it helped by Bennet v. Ranter.
The first case decided that "the owner, either acting in person or through some friend or agent, compensated or uncompensated," might redeem-in other words, that anybody
might redeem, if professing to act in behalf of the "owner"
-and that a ratification by the owner would be presumed
in furtherance ofjustice. But the case does not decide that
a "no owner," acting either in person or through some friend
or agent, may redeem. In the present case, had an assignee
been appointed, and bad Hamptoh's son, without being authorized so to act, professed to act for him, the case would
be in point. But the son did not so profess to act; but professed to act, and was authorized to act, for quite another
person, to wit, his father, who was not owner.
Nor does Tracy v. irwin help the difficulty of this part of
the case; though it may help the difficulty of another part;

HAMPTON V. ROUSE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the redemption.

the part, namely, involving the question whether Hampton's son made any tender for anybody. Tracy v. Irwin decides that if tax collectors, being bound, as they are in law,
to receive redemption-money from the agents of owners, announce by general announcements that they will receive it
from nobody but owners themselves, an agent who goes to
the proper office to pay, need not show an actual offer of the
money. And this we admit to be good law. If he had the
money ready to tender, it was enough; for an actual tender
would haVe been nugatory. But, as we have said, this case
does not show at all who is owner, or that the agent of a
person not owner need or need not do anything.
Everything here, it is to be observed, is statutory. Considerations of common haw do not come in; still less any equitable ones. It is a case where the oft-quoted sentence of the
great English Chief Justice, Sir Henry Hobart, is applicable:* "The statute makes sure work. The statute is like a
tyrant. Where lie comes, he makes all void; but the common law is like a nursing father."
But there was no tender by anybody, or at any time.
Hampton's son offered to redeem the premises, not by the
payment of any money in his hands, but out of the proceeds
of certain bonds which had been deposited in the hands of
Haycroft, the treasurer, and which were then unsold and
which the levee treasurer was under no official obligation to
sell. The evidence shows that the levee treasurer told
Hampton's son that he must pay the redemption-money in
currency. But if he had not so told him, and if the treasurer had specially undertaken to redeem the lands, yet-as
it was no part of his official duty thus to undertake or to
redeem-his failure to redeem, from whatever cause the
failure arose, and even if it arose from fraud, could not
avoid the deed made to Rouse by the treasurer in the discharge of his official duty. Under the case of Tracy v. rwin
it cannot be doubted that the party going to see about the
redemption must be able to redeem; that is to say, must have,
somewhere at command, money to redeem with.
* 1 Modern, 86; 21-22 Car. 11.

Oct. 1874.]

HAMPTON V.

ROUSE.

Opinion of the court.

Of course, if there was no tender in law, the court properly charged as it did. Indeed, it would have acted properly
enough had it excluded the evidence in the first place; the
old doctrine about submitting a case, if there is a scintilla of
evidence, having been long an exploded one.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
It appears by the record that the offer to redeem was
made by the agent of the owner on the 10th of April, 1869,
less than two years from the sale. This was within proper
time, as allowed by law.
It is clear that a decree in bankruptcy, without more, will
not, under the Bankrupt Act, which in the first part of its
eleventh section provides for the decree, have the effect to
discharge the debts of the petitioner nor to divest him of
the title to either his real or personal estate. And argument is hardly necessary to show that none of the proceedings contemplated in- any part of the eleventh section, or
those directed in the twelfth, have that effect, as neither of
the sections contains any language whatever to import or
indicate that anything of the kind was intended by the
framers of the act.
Conclusive support to this view, if any be needed, is derived from the fourteenth section of the act. Prior to the
assignment and conveyance authorized and directed by that
section, the title, whatever it be, of the estate belonging to
the debtor, both real and personal, remains unchanged, except'that the court, in certain cases, may in the meantime
restrain the debtor or any other person, by injunction, from
making any transfer or disposition of any part of the same,
not excepted from the operation of the act.
Sufficient appears in the sections of the act referred to,
when considered in connectin with the admissions and
other evidence exhibited in the record, to.show beyond
doubt that the instruction of the court under discussion is
erroneous, and that the error was of a character to supersede every question of fact submitted to the jury. Plenary evidence was given that the offer to redeem, as.
VOL. XXI.

18

HIAMPTON V. ROUSE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

exhibited in the transcript, was made on the 10th of April,
1869, and the assignee of the estate of the bankrupt was not
appointed and qualified as such until the 19th of April in
the same year, and the testimony reported shows that the
bankrupt was in the possession of the premises and that 'he
ever after continued in the possession of the same to the
present time.
Whether or not the evidence introduced to prove that an
offer to redeem the premises was made at the time was soufficient to avail the defendant as equivalent to a tender, it is
not necessary at the present time to decide, but the court is
of the opinion that it was of such a character, in view of a
recent decision of this court, that it ought to have been submitted to the jury, untrammelled by a prior instruction,
which in substance and effect amounted to a direction to
the jury that their verdict must be for the plaintiff
Such an offer to redeem it was held, in the case of Bennet
v. .unter,* might be*made by the owner or by an agent or
by any person willing to act for the -party interested, upon
the ground that an act done by a third person for the benefit
of another is valid if ratified either expressly or by implica.
tion, and that such ratification will be presumed in furtherance of justice. Since that time it has also been decided, in
the case of Tracy v. Iwin,t that if the tax commissioners
announce that they will not receive the payment of-the
taxes in such cases unless tendered by the owner, that a
formal offer by another to pay is unnecessaly, that it is
enough if a relative of the owner went to the office of the
commissioners to see after the payment of the tax, even
though he made no formal offer to pay, because such an
announcement is in effect a waiver of a tender by the commissioners, they having declined to receive payment unless
,the tender is made by the owner in person.
Apply that rule to the case and it is clear that the evidence introduced by the defendants tending to show an offer
to redeem the premises should have been submitted to the
,*.9 Wallace, 338.

i" 18 Wallace, 550.

Oct. 1874.]

HAMPTON V.

R USE.

Opinion of the court.

jury under proper instructions. Instructions of the kind,
however, would have been useless after the jury had been
told that the defendant ceased to be the owner of the land,
and that he lost his right to redeem the same when be was
adjudged a bankrupt, it appearing that the decree was entered before the ofter to redeem was made, as assumed by
both parties.
Enough appears in the language of the fourteenth section
of the Bankrupt Act to demonstrate the proposition that the
instruction of the Circuit Court in that regard was incorrect,
nor is the question affected in the least by the fact that the
same section provides that such assignment or conveyance
shall relate back to the commencement of the proceedings,
as the instrument of assignment cannot operate either retrospectively or prospectively before it is executed. Until an
assignee is appointed and qualified and the conveyance or
assignment is made to him, the title to the property, whatever it be, remains in the bankrupt, which is the plain meaning or the fourteenth section of the Bankrupt Act.* Different regulations in that respect were enacted in the former
Bankrupt Act, as the third section of that act provided that
"all the property and rights of property, of every name and
nature, of the bankrupt, not excepted from the operation of
the act, . . . shall, by mere operation of law ipsofacto,f/rom
the time of such decree, be deemed to be divested out of such
bankrupt, without any other act, assignment, or other conveyance whatsoever."t Unlike the old act, the existing act
makes it the duty of the court, or, where there is no opposing interest, of the register, by an instrument under his
hand, to assign and convey to the assignee all the estate,
real and personal, of the bankrupt, and the rule is that such
a conveyance or assignment divests.the bankrupt of the
whole of his property, except what is exempted from the
operation of the Bankrupt Act, and vests the title to the
same in the assignee, but the record in this case shows that
* Sutherland v. Davis, 42 Indiana, 28.

t 5 Stat. at Large, 443; Ex parte Newhall, 2 Story, 362; Oakey v" Bennett, 11 Howard, 44.

276

MECHANICS' ETC. BANK V. UNION BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

no assignee had been appointed when the alleged offer to
redeem was made, which affords a demonstration that the
charge of the court that he had ceased to be the owner of
the land and thereby lost his right to redeem was improper,
being equivalent to a direction to the jury to find a verdict
for the plaintiff.*
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and the cause remanded with direc-

tions to issue

A

MECHANICS'

NEW VENIRE.

AND TRADERS' BANK V. UNION BANK.

1. The Constitution did not prohibit the creation by military authority of
courts for the trial of civil causes during the civil war in conquered portions of the insurgent States. The establishment of such courts was
the exercise of the ordinary rights of conquest.
2. A court established by proclamation of the commanding General in New
Orleans, on the 1st of May, 1862, on the occupation of the city by the
government forces, will, in the absence of proof to the contrary, be
presumed to have been authorized by the President.
3. Though called, in the order establishing it, a Provost Court, a larger jurisdiction than one over minor criminal offences might, in fact, have validly
been given to it by the power which constituted it.
4. Whether such court acted within its jurisdiction in a case where one bank
of the State of Louisiana was claiming from another bank of the same
State a large sum of money, is not a question for this court to determine, but a question exclusively for the State tribunals.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Louisiana; the case being
thus:
The State of Louisiana, as is known, during the late rebellion joined the rebel forces. On or about the 29th of
April, 1862, however, the government forces under General
Butler-then in command of the conquering and occupying
army, and comrnissioned to carry on the war in the Depart* Wright v. Johnson, 4 National Bankrupt Register, 627; Same Case, 8
Blatchford, 150; Bump on Bankruptcy (7th ed.), 22.

