136

ST. JOHN

v.

ERIE RAILWAY OOMPANY.

[SUp. Ct.

Syllabus.

beyond the terminus of the defendants' road. The contract was in substance for transportation over the Ogdensburg road of all the horses. For the convenience of the
shipper he was allowed to put them on board at different
points. This was an incidental circumstance merely, and
does not affect the contract. If it receives the full price for
the transportation of all the property from Potsdam to Boston it is evidently to the advantage of the company if it
escapes the danger incident thereto for a portion of the distance. The power to contract for the whole distance of all
the horses, and the making of such contract, and the receipt
of the compensation specified, fix the rights of the parties.
The precise details of its performance are not essential.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

ST. JOHN V. ERIE RAILWAY COMPANY.
A railroad company, built originally with money contributed as stock, subsequently borrowed money, issuing its bonds at five several dates and
giving five several mortgages to secure them. It also borrowed money,
issuing bonds for which it gave no mortgage; unsecured bonds. It
finally proved insolvent, and proceedings to foreclose the last two mortgages were had. The stockholders and creditors now entered into an
agreement for the adjustment of its liabilities, and pursuant to the
agreement the road was sold under the proceedings of foreclosure to
trustees, who transferred all its property subject to all the existing
mortgage liens to a new corporation authorized by the legislature, with
an agreement confirmed by legislative act, by which it was agreed that
the stockholders of the old company should be stockholders-common
stockholders-in the new; and the unsecured creditors of the old one
be stockholders preferred. This agreement was carried out, and the
parties further agreed"Such preferred stock shall be entitled to preferred dividends out of the net
earnings of said road (if earned in the current year, but not otherwise), not to
exceed seven per cent. in any one year, payable semi-annually, after paynent
of mortgage inte)est and delayed coupons in full."

The new company now worked the road, and for a considerable time paid
to the preferred stockholders seven per cent. out of its net earnings,
and-of course after payment of mortgage interest and delayed coupons.

Oct. 1874.]

ST.

JOHN v. ERIE RAILWAY COMPANY.

137

Statement of the case.
However, in the course of managing its affairs it afterwards-that is to
say after the making of the above-mentioned agreements-leased new
roads, some of which were not profitable; and borrowed large amounts
of money which it spent in the repair and equipment of the road; all
in a mode quite regular. And paying its interest on the old debts, rent
for the new roads, and interest on the additionally borrowed money, it
could not pay anything more.
A "preferred stockholder" now filed a bill to have full payment of his
dividends from the net earnings, prior to any payment on account of
the new leases or additionally borrowed money; his view being that his
rights were to be determined by the state of things which existed when
his stock was issued, and were not affected by the leases taken and the
money borrowed afterwards.
Held, That this was not a true view of the case; and that the last and
italicized clause above, I after payment of mortgage interest and delayed
coupons in full," was controlled by the previous word "net," which
meant "that which remained as net profit after the deduction of all
charges or outlay." The bill was accordingly dismissed.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of New York; the case was thus:
By an act of the legislature of New York of the 24th of
April, 1832, a corporation known as the New York and
Erie Railroad Company was created. The road which the
company built extended from Piermont, a town on the west
side of the Hudson, some sixty miles north of New York,
and just above the line which divides the State there from
New Jersey, to Dunkirk on Lake Erie. To reach Piermont
from the city of New York by rail, the company ferried its
passengers and freight across the Hudson to Jersey City,
opposite to New York, and carried them from its depot there
northward alongside of the Hudson, upon roads in New
Jersey which it rented.
The company had also other rented roads.
The money put into the road as capital stock being insufficient to complete it and carry it on, it issued five successive
sets of bonds, amounting in the aggregate to $20,000,000.
The first set was secured by a lien upon the road given by
statute. The other sets were secured by mortgages, according to the order of their issue. It also issued bonds, not
thus secured, to the amount of .7,000,000. In 1859 the

138

ST. JOHN V. ERIE RAILWAY CO0IP&NY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

company became bankrupt. Proceedings in foreciosure
were instituted to enforce the last two mortgages, and a receiver was appointed.
In this state of things, on the 22d of October, 1859, the
shareholders and creditors of the company entered into an
amicable agreement providing for the adjustment of its liabilities. In pursuance of this agreement all the property
and effects of the company, including the then existing leases
of the roads rented, were sold under a decree in the foreclosure suits, and bought in by trustees for the benefit
of the parties in interest, pursuant to -a clause in the
agreement. A new corporation, under the name of the
Erie Railway Company, was organized, pursuant to acts of
the legislature of New York of the 4th of April, 1860, April
2d, 1861, and March 28th, 1862, and all the property of the
old company bought by the trustees was transferred to it,
subject however to all the liens and incumbrances upon it
which subsisted before the foreclosure and sale. The awreement above hientioned of the 22d of October, 1859, was incorporated into the decree of sale, and was recognized and
sanctioned by the several acts of the legislature under which
the new corporation was organized. It was also made a
part of the articles of association or charter of that company.
Its obligatory effect in this case was not questioned. The
third article, declared:.
"The capital stock of said company is divided into common
capital stock and preferred capital stock. The whole amount
of said common stock of said company is 115,500 shares, each
of the par value of $100, being in amount equal to the outstanding capital stock of the New York and Erie Railroad Company.
The whole amount of the preferred capital stock of said company is to be equal to the amount of the total unsecured and
judgment debt of the New York and Erie Railroad Company,
with interest thereon as provided by the contract referred to in
said acts, and by the provision of the said act, passed April 2d,
1861, whefi ascertained pursuant to the provisions of said act."
The fifth article of the agreement was as follows:
"Such of us as are holders of the convertilble sinking fund

Oct. 1874.]

ST.

JOHN

v. ERIE RAILWAY COMPANY.

139

Statement of the case.

and other unsecured bonds of said company hereby agree to
exchange our respective bonds for preferred stock of like amount
with the Vrincipal of our bonds, with coupons now overdue, and
for two years in advance added, and to deposit our bonds with
said trustees to be so exchanged, receiving therefor receipts.
Such preferred stock is to be entitled to preferred dividends out
of the net earnings (if earned in the current year, but not otherwise), not to exceed 7 per cent, in any one year, payable semi-annually,
after payment of mortgage interest and delayed coupons in full.".
The act of April 2d, 1861, in its fourth section, thus
enacted:
"SECTION 4. Said preferred stock shall be entitled to preferred
dividends out of the net earnings of said road if earned in the
current year, but not otherwise, not to exceed seven per cent.
inany one year, payable semi-annually, after payment of mortgage interest and delayed coupons in fall. And the holders
thereof may vote personally or by proxy at all meetings of the
corporation, in the same manner as the holders of common
stock, but not otherwise."

In virtue of these arrangements, one St. John became the
holder of three hundred shares of the preferred stock.
After the issuing of the preferred stock the new company
took leases of several additional roads, some of which proved
profitable and others not so; and borrowed £1,000,000, for
which it gave sterling bonds bearing interest at the rate of
six per cent. per annum, payable in gold. The money was
borrowed for the repair and equipment of the roads of the
company, and was expenddd accordingly.
The company paid the "delayed coupons," and a dividend
of five per cent. on all the preferred stock for the year 1863,
and seven per cent. annually thereafter until the year 1868;
but after that time paid nothing upon that stock. On the
contrary, it paid, in preference, the rents on the leases,.the
new as well as the old, and the interest on £1,000,000 sterling loan, as.well as on the old secured $20,000,000.

The net earnings of the company during the year 1868,
after deducting the interest paid on the mortgage debts ex-

140

ST. JOHN

v. ERIS RAILWAY COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

isting when the preferred stock was issued, were so inconsiderable that payment of all the rents and of interest on
the sterling bonds absorbed more than all of them. If
no rents and no interest upon the sterling bonds had been
paid during that year, there would have been more than
enough of the net earnings left to pay the dividends claimed
by the complainant. If no interest had been paid on the
sterling bonds, and no rents under the leases made since the
preferred stock was issued, there would have been enough
remaining to have paid a small part of the dividends; but
no part of such dividends could have been paid without
leaving unpaid some part of the interest upon the sterling
bonds, and of the rents under the leases made since the preferred stock was issued.
To explain the matter by figuresThe rents payable for the old leases, assumed in 1862,
L9

"c

$372,000

new leases made after 1862,

376,000

Interest, &c., payable on the £1,000,000 sterling gold
bonds, ..

388,500

"

--

The net earnings for 1868, of the main road and of all
the rented roads, after deducting interest ($1,286,000) on the old, that is to say the secured bonds, was
The preferred stock, both in 1862 and 1869, was about $8,536,000.

$1,136,600

$680,000

In the keeping of the accounts of the company, the leased
roads weie treated as part of the whole road. No separate
accounts of each were kept. Coal traffic, however, passing
over one of them, taken after 1862, was stated to be very
profitable.
In this state of things St. John filed in 1869 a bill in the
court below against the company, asserting that he was entitled to have full dividends paid to him before any part of
the net earnings were applied in payment of the interest on
the sterling bonds and the rents under the leases of roads
after 1862 to the new corporation. His position was that his
rights were to be determined by the state of things which
existed when his stock was issued, and that they were not
affected by the leases taken and the bonds issued by the
company afterwards.

Oct. 1874.]

ST. JOHN V. ERIE REAILWAY COMPANY.

141

Argument for the preferred stockholders.

The company on the other hand insisted that this interest
and the rents of all the leases were necessarily to be first

fully paid.
The court below was of the company's view, and dismissed the bill. St. John took this appeal.
Mr. D. B. Eaton, for the appellant:
I. Both the circumstances surrounding the parties when
the contract was made and the language of the contract
itself support the view which we take.
1. As to surrounding circumstances. The now preferred
stockholders were, prior to the contract, creditors; and, to
say nothing of their right to attack mortgagees, they could
getjudgments on their bonds, which would secure to them
payment immediately after payment of what was due on the
mortgages, and take precedence of all future obligations to
pay rent on new roads or interest on new loans. With the
right to- get judgments on their bonds, and so to come in
immediately after the mortgagees, it is unreasonable to suppose that they meant to open a measureless space between
themselves and the mortgagees by giving the company
power not only to create an unlimited number of leases, but
power also to create enormous amounts of debt; to let in,
prior to themselves, other unsecured bond creditors and the
lessors of new roads leased-both to an indefinite amountand to put in those persons-strangers-instead of themselves, next to the mortgagees; to expose themselves, in
short, not only to enterprises untried, but to obligations unlimited. It is to suppose more according to what these
bond creditors would have naturally done, if we suppose that
in giving up the valuable right which they did give up, they
meant to secure for themselves a certain and abiding position
next to the then existing mortgagees upon the net earnings
of the company well defined: to get a right to a dividend
from specific net earnings from specific property next after
the payment of specific mortgage interests, and that while
they deprived themselves of the power of seizing the road
and everything belonging to it on execution, and gave up

142

ST. JOHN v. ERIE RAILWAY COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the preferred stockholders.

the chance of getting the principal of their debt, they did
not, as creditors, waive their then existing right of priority
to interest. The state of the road, its income and outgoes,
were before them; and on the prospects thus presented they
could act intelligently. But on the view taken by the opposite side, they were out at sea, and dashing ahead without
chart or compass, in waters where there were no sodndings,
and in a fog where they could discern nothing before them.
2. The language of the contract conforms with the probabilities
indicatedby surroundingcircumstances. Had the company's now
views been those of the parties to the contract, it would have
been sufficient to have said that the holders of the unsecured
bonds should have a preferred stock. That, of itself, would,
inlaw and common understanding, mean a stock entitled to
a preferred dividend. Or if the parties desired to be pleonastioally certain, they might have added that the holders of
"such preferred stock should be entitled to preferred dividends, each year, if earned." But the language is very different. "Preferred stockholders" are to have "preferred
dividends' out of "net earnings," after payment of "mortgage-interest," not "before dividends on common stock."
The reading of the other side assumes that the makers of
the agreement thought that, except for language to the contrary, a preferred dividend would be payable before mort.gage-interest; an assumption impossible to makb, conceding
to the persons who drew the contract any knowledge of the
law at all.
The fact .thatthe existing security may be called "stock,"
and that its holders may vote with the common stockholders is unimportant.
The security, however, is not
called stock, but is called preferredstock, and its holders are
preferred stockholders. The only question is, to whom and
to what are they preferred? Suppose that the contract declared in terms that what the preferred stockholders were
to receive should be paid in preference to rent on new
leases, or interest on new debts? How then ? Would the
calling that on which they are to receive a payment preferred stock impair their rights? Plainly not. Indeed, are

Oct. 1874.]

ST.

JOHN V.

ERIE RAILWAY

COMPANY.

148

Argument for the preferred stockholders.

not debt and stock often used as convertible terms? Do we
not speak continually of stocks of the States, and of the
United States, meaning debts due by them respectively?
Certainly we do. Indeed this very court does so. In the
Bank Tax Case,* Nelson, J., delivering its unanimous opinion,
speaking of the New York Banking laws says:
"The association is required to deposit . . . stocks of the State
of New York."
And again :t
"Now when the capital of the bank is required to be invested
in stocks, and among others in United States stock."
The court is here speaking of State debts and United States
debts.
The statutes of the United States equally use the terms
debt and stock as convertible. One of them,t ex. gr., relating to a 3 per cent. loan, says:
"Any part of the principal of the said debt or stock, bearing
an interest of 3 per cent., as shall be unredeemed, shall," &c.
Then the use of the word "stock" is nothing, and the
only question is, does the contract, as expressed, mean what
we assert that it does mean?
In settling that meaning it is to be noted that these pre-'
ferred stockholders never sustained the ordinary relations
of stockholders, general or preferred. They began as creditors. They never subscribed for stock, nor paid instalments, nor took part in creating a corporation, nor had an
opportunity to share in unlimited profits, nor agreed to
assume any of the ordinary i'isk of stockholders, nor bargained for so large a vote as to be able to protect themselves, but from the beginning relied on a peculiar contract
relation, due notice of which they caused to be conspicuously
published to all the world. They are in part creditors and
in part stockholders, and not technically either. Theyhave
the rights which their contract gives them, and a name will
2 Wallace, 207.

Act of March 3d, 1795, ch. 286 [ex],

t Page 208.

12; and in many other places.

144

ST. JOHN v. ERIE RAILWAY COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the preferred stockholders.

not make those rights greater or less. Modern business
and legislation have created relations which, according to
the narrow views of the old laws and decisions, would be
anomalous, and in them a person may be in some sense and
at the same time a creditor and a stockholder. Such is the
case of every preferred stockholder.
There is no use of considering what would be our condition in case of insolvency, and who would be then preferred. What has that condition to do with our rights
during solvency? We will consider the case of insolvency
when it arises.
It is matter of common knowledge that the Erie Railway
has been largely built by English capital. The agreement
whose meaning is now under consideration was doubtless
made in all its parts by representatives of English capitalists.
The expressions of English statutes, the views of English
writers, and the decisions of the English courts may be
looked to with more than common deference in interpreting
it. Now, in the English law, preferred stock is commonly
called debenture stock, the word debenture coming obviously
from debere, to owe. So the dividends on preferred or debenture stock are commonly called interest; and the English
law declares them to "rank next to interest payable on the
mortgages or bonds for the time being,"* though it admits
of course that the holders of it cannot require repayment of
what they have paid for it.
Nor is there anything in the use of the word "dividend"
which of itself impairs our argument. If it was said, in
terms, that the "dividend" on preferred stock was to be
paid out of net earnings from existing roads, and next after
mortgage-interest, and prior to rent on any new leases, and
prior to interest on any new loans, the meaning and the
case would be clear. The word "dividend" then is unimportant. And the only question is whether, in any way, the
meaning and the case are clear? This so-called dividend, it
26 and 27 Victoria, chapter 118; Shelford's Law of 1jailways, 4th
edition, p. 206, H 22, 23, 24, and 31.

Oct. 1874.]

Sr. JoHN v.

ERIE RAILWAY COMPANY.

145

Argument for the preferred stockholders.

will be noted, is to be declared from " net earnings," and is
payable absolutely, each year, if earned, immediately after
the mortgage-interest is paid. The payment may be called
a dividend, but it is more analogous to interest.
If every common stockholder should be present and vote
to have any such surplus of net profits used for some other
designated purpose, this would confessedly not impair the
claims of preferred stockholders to receive it.
In the case of Maryland v. Railroad Company, very lately
decided by this court,* the State of Maryland was, by a contract with the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, entitled to have and receive a perpetual dividend of six per cent.
per annum (upon $3,000,000 which the State lent to the
company), out of the profits of the road. Does any one
doubt that this made a debt from the company to the State
in case any profits were niade? And that calling the money
to be paid a dividend was nothing?
Nor is there anything in the expression "net earnings"
which impairs our argument. Of course "net earnings"
are gross earnings after the deduction of every sort of cost,
charge, and expense of administering and working "the
road." But what road? That is the question to be settled. The language is "the net earnings of the said road."
Does "the said road" mean the road then known as the
road of the Erie Railway Company-the road, and the only
road, which had been before the contracting parties-with
its then leased roads,-or does it mean that road-that "said.
road"--with a score of different, distant, and most unprofitable roads, worked into its corpus as a part of it, and with
$5,000,000 of debt created to equip and use them? That,
we say, is the question.
The case made by the pleadings is a little obscure as to
what road or roads absorbed the $5,000,000 borrowed. But
that vast sum is not shown to have been expended on the line
as it existed when the preferred stock was created. That line
must have been completed and equipped, and it could never
* Slipra, p. 105.

VOL. xxII.

10

146

ST. JOHN v. ERIE RAILWAY COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the preferred stockholders.

have been expected that such sums would be borrowed to
use on such a road. Without doubt the money was expended in great measure on the newly leased lines.
II. Now, the defendant should have kept separate accounts
of its newly leased'roads, and been prepared to sustain their
losses or demonstrate their profits. The plaintiff is entitled
to have counted as gross earnings on the line as it existed
when his stock was created, all the money thereon received
and earned, and from this can be deducted only the expenses
of operating such line, including, of course, rents payable
for any portion of it. Such accounts are easily kept. On
that basis the plaintiff will take his chances of a dividend,
as the contract provides, and will regard his prospects as
greatly improved. The company denies that right, and refuses such account and payment. This rule of separate
accounts is the English rule. In Conrg v. Londonderry,*
where there were five classe of stockholders, the court held
that the company must keep separate accounts, and that the
discretion of the directors over expenditures was limited by
the rights conferred on preferred shareholders. Where net
profits were pledged, as here, it was held they could not be
diminished by subtracting from them "money raised under
the borrowing powers," afid that "money procured for the
purpose of completing the line cannot be.paid out of profits."
A material part of the reasoning of this case has been"
sustained by Taft v. The Harford Railroad,t in this country.
IIl. It will be said, doubtless, by opposing counsel, that
our view of the law would obstruct all expansion of the
company's business, by preventing the company borrowing
money or leasing roads. If such was the effect, the fact
would be no reason for the court refusing us our right.
Such a contract made by the company, and sanctioned by
the courts and the legislature, as this has been, would be
valid, however inconvenient it might be. But such is not
the effect. The company may lease, and borrow, and ex29 Beavan, 263, 272, 273.
t 8 Rhode Island, 310, 334, and 335.

Oct. 1874.]

ST. JOHN v. ERIE RAILWAY COMPANY.

147

Opinion of the court.

pand, and the preferred stock no more obstructs them than
does a mortgage. They must first give us a dividend, if
there be net earnings to pay it, just as they must pay mortgage-interest.
2Ir. V. W. M'cFarland,contra, for the company.
Mr. Justice SWAY-NE delivered the opinion of the court.
The question 1reseated in the present case depends for
its solution wholly upon the construction given to the fifth
clause of the agreemefit of 1859, and the fourth section of
the act of 1861. They are identical in effect as regards the
point to be considered.
The original takers of the preferred stock were creditors.
They abandoned that position and became stockholders.
They thereupon ceased to be the former, and can only be
regarded as the latter. They surrendered their debts and
received in return stock of the same amount, which gave
them a chance for annual dividends of seven per cent., and
a voice by voting in the choice of those by whom the affairs
of the company were to be administered. What they were
to receive was not interest, but dividends; and they were to
receive them in priority to the holders of the common stock.
The latter could recei'e nothing until the former were satisfied. The maximum payable on the preferred stock was
specified. It might be less, or nothing. It could not be
more. The amount subject to the limit prescribed depended
wholly upon Athe residue of the net earnings applicable in
that way. The langnage employed is apt to express the relation of stockholders. None to express the relation of
creditors is found in the instrument; and there is nothing
from which the intent to continue that relation any longer
can be inferred. If the mortgages were foreclosed and
there were a surplus left insufficient to satisfy the general
creditors, it is quite clear that the holders of the preferred
stock could have no right to share in the fund.
The dividends were to be paid after the mortgage-interest
and delayed coupons were paid in full.

148

ST. JOHN V. ERIE RAILWAY

COIPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

This clause was inserted doubtless out of abundant caution, to prevent the possibility of a claim being set up to the
prejudice of the holders of the mortgage securities. Whether
the restriction was necessary, for that purpose, we need not
consider. The preferred dividends were to be paid out of
"the net earnings of the road." The lexical definition of net
is "clear of all charges and deductio s."-Webster. "That
which remains after the deduction of all charges or outlay,
as net profit."-Worcester. The popular acceptation of the
term is the same. There is no controversy between the parties on this subject. Such net earnings must have been
earned in "the current year." There are these four specific
limitations. There are no others. It is not said that the
preferred dividends shall be paid next after the mortgage
interest and delayed coupons, nor after, nor pro rata with
anything else, nor before anything else except dividends
upon the common stock. Beyond the four restrictions
named, the matter is left to be regulated wholly by the
principles of law and the discretion of the company. Suppose in this case the holders of coupons of the sterling bonds
and the holders of preferred 'stock claimed payment at the
same time and the fund was insufficient to meet both demands, can it be doubted that the rights of the creditor
would be held paramount to those of the shareholder, and
that the interest must be fully satisfied before a dividend
could be paid? The plainest principles of reason and justice
as well as the law would require this result. A question is
raised as to the source to which the phrase "net earnings
of the road" refers. The term road is used as an appellative, and was clearly intended to include the principal road
and all its adjuncts. The complainant insists that the "net
earnings" must be the net earnings of things as they were
when the preferred stock was issued. We find nothing in
the case, express or implied, to warrant this view. At the
time referred to, the company held certain leases. If it was
deemed best, and was found practicable, could not the company have rid itself of them ? If the complainant's view be
correct, this could not be done, at any rate not without the

Oct. 1874.]

ST. JOHN V. ERIE RAILWAY COMPANY.

149

Opinion of the court.

consent of the preferred stockholders. So if the company
deemed it proper to take leases of other roads, in addition
to those previously held, or in place of them, what was there
to prevent it? Upon what ground can it be claimed that
the category "net earnings of the road" was not intended
to embrace the net earnings of all the business of the company for the time being, whether done upon one or many
roads?
There is nothing in the agreement or the statute, and we
are aware of no legal principle which would authorize the
stockholders in question to analyze the business, select out
a part of it, and to say that the net earnings specified must
be a predicate of that part, and of none other. The company had the right to conduct its operations, in good faith,
as it might see fit; and it was from them and all of them
that the materials for the computations of earnings were to
be deh'ved.
The only qualification prescribed in this connection is not
as to the scope, means, or elements of the business, but is
one in point of time. The net earnings from which the preferred dividends were to be paid must have been earned
"in the current year." Whether the business of such year
were large or small, or of what it consisted, is immaterial.
The corporation never agreed to be limited in the exercise
of its faculties and franchises, and the complainant must
abide the result. If errors were committed, and a loss ensued, a court of equity cannot relieve him. It is one of the
chances of the enterprise in which he embarked.
The business of the road was a unit. If it had been disintegrated as proposed by the complainant, we apprehend it
would have been found that the correlations of the main
stem and the branches were such, and that the expenses and
charges incident to the entire business and those of the several parts were so interwoven and blended, that an accurate
ascertainment of the net profit of the main line and any of
the auxiliaries, taken separately from the rest, would have
been impracticable. An ancillary road may be short and
yield but little income, yet by reason of its reaching to coal-

SLOAN V. LEWIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

fields, or fiom other local causes, its contributions to other
roads of the series may be very large and profitable.
Whether in this case the partial computation insisted upon
could or could not have been made, the process was one
upon which the company was neither bound nor had the
right to enter.
We hold that the computation by the company for the
year 1868 was made upon the proper basis, and that the
complainant is concluded by it. We are of the opinion that
the rents for that year, accruing under leases taken by the
company after the issuing of the preferred stock, and the
interest upon the sterling bonds for that year were properly
paid, and that there were no net earnings earned in that
year which could be properly applied in payment of preferred dividends. These views are fatal to the complainant's case. We have carefully examined all the authorities
referred to by his learned counsel. None of them are in
hostility to the conclusions atwhich we have arrived.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

SLOAN V. LEWIS.
1. Under the thirty-ninth section of the Bankrupt Act: enacting that a person may, in certain events; be decreed a bankrupt, against his will, "on
the petition of one or more of his creditors the aggregate of whose debts
provable under this act amounts toat least $250," it is not necessary that
the principaZ of the debt should amount to $250. If with interest
plainly due on it, according to what appears on the face of the petition,
it amounts to at least $250, that authorizes the decree.
2. In a case where the decree is thus authorized, in other words, where jurisdiction exists in the District Court of the United States to decree a person a bankrupt, and the person has been decreed a bankrupt accordingly, a party against whom the assignee in bankruptcy brings suit in
another court, not appellate, to recover assets of the bankrupt's estate,
cannot show that payments made on account had reduced the petitioning creditor's debt so low as that the bankrupt did not owe as much as
the petitioning creditor in his petition alleged. The finding of the Dis-

