FRETZ -0. STOVER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

sonal representatives are entitled to a judgment for the entire
proceeds of the cotton held in trust for the owner.
and the record is remitted with instructions to dismiss the petitions of Woodruff & Co., and
Mrs. Nutt, executrix, and to enter a judgment in favor of
the personal representatives of Elgee, for the sum found in
the treasury, the net proceeds of the sale of cotton.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

Dissenting, Justices BRADLEY and HUNT.

FRETZ V. STOVER.
1. The point cannot be first made in this court that no replication has been
made to an answer in chancery, and, therefore, that the answer is to be
taken as conclusively true in all points. If such a point is meant to be
insisted on here, it should have been made in the court below.
2. New defences, i. e., defences not made in an answer to the original bill,
cannot be first set up in an answer to a bill of reviver. Such bill puts in
issue nothing but the character of the new party brought in.
3. After the late rebellion broke out, debtors in the rebellious States had no
right to pay to the agents or trustees of their creditors in the loyal
States, debts due to these last in any currency other than legal currency
of the United States. Payment in Confederate notes or in Virginia
bank notes (security for whose payment was Confederate bonds, and
which notes like the bonds themselves never, after the rebellion broke
out, were safe, and before it closed had become worthless), held to have
been no payment, and the debtor charged de novo.
APPEAL from the District Court for the Eastern District
of Virginia; the case being thus:

For several years prior to February 25th, 1861, a litigation had been waged by Fretz and wife, residents of Pennsylvania, against Stover, a resident of Fauquier County,
Virginia; a certain Chilton, a lawyer in embarrassed.circumstances, and resident in the same county, being the
counsel of the former. The suit was for property claimed
by the wife. On the said 25th of February, 1861, a corn-

Oct. 1874.]

FRETZ V.

STOVER.

Statement of the case.

promise was effected between the parties, and it was agreed
that Stover should give his bond to Fretz and wife, secured
by a deed of trust to Chilton, as trustee, of a valuable farm,
specified, for $2866, payable on or before the 1st of March,
1868. Fretz and his wife now returned to their home in
Pennsylvania, leaving their attorney, Chilton, to see that
the compromise was properly carried out, and that all details
necessary for its completion were attended to. Chilton did
thus accomplish matters; and Stover having, on the 8th of
April, 1861, executed his bond, payable on or before March
1st, 1868, to Fretz and his wife, and transferred to Chilton
by deed of trust for Fretz and his wife the ftrm to secure
it, both instruments were delivered in form to Chilton.
Of all this Fretz was informed. At the time when the compromise was made the country was in a disturbed condition
with the Southern issues; but intercourse between all parts
of it was still common, and as yet no war existed: On the
12th of April, 1861, Sumter was fired on by rebels, and civil
war became flagrant. All communication ceased between
Pennsylvania and that part of Virginia in which Chilton
and Stover lived.
In 1864, intercourse being restored betwben Fauquier
County, Virginia, and Pennsylvania, Chilton wrote Fretz
saying "that the papers were all safe, and that he would
keep them safe, as he could collect nothing but Confederate
money." In the autumn of 1865 Fretz went to Fauquier
County, where he saw Chilton,-and Chilton then told him
that he had received nothing on account of the bond;
showed him a letter from Stover offering to pay it in Confederate money, which money Chilton said that he had not
taken because it would have been of little use to him, Fretz.
In 1866, that is to say, after the war was ended, Fretz learned
accidentally that the bond had been paid in December, 1862,
not wholly in notes of the Confederate States, but partly in
them and partly in notes of Virginia banks; the security
for the payment of which latter was bonds of the Confederacy; and the bonds and all the notes, of course, becoming
worthless alike with the fall of the Confederacy itself.

FRETZ V. STOVER.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

Chilton was alive at this time, but soon after (1867) died in"
solvent, and Fretz now (August 9th, 1869) filed a bill in the
court below (his wife not being a party) against Stover to
set up and have enforced the deed of trust; the ground of
the bill being that Chilton had no authority to receive payment in paper such as he did receive it in, nor Stover the
iJght to make it. The bill set forth the general history of
the transaction, alleged "that the said bond and the deed
of trust securing the sum of money specified in the bond
were left with the said Chilton as the attorney at law of the
complainant, the deed of trust for record and the bond for
collection at its maturity." It charged actual fraud between
Ohilton and Stover in this, that Stover, taking advantage of
Chilton's great pecuniary necessities, induced him to receive
the Confederate and Virginia paper money at par in payment and discharge of the bond.
After the filing of the bill, Mrs. Fretz, the wife, was by
consent of counsel made a party to it.
Stover filed his answer, admitting the settlement and execution of the bond and deed of trust, and the payment in
Virginia bank nPtes and Oonfederate treasury notes as
charged, but denied that these payments were the result of
an unlawful and fraudulent combination between the respondent and Ohilton. He insisted, however, that they
were in- law a full discharge and satisfaction of the debt and
trust deed, but if this were not so, that to the extent of the
compensation due by Fretz to Chilton for professional services, he should not be compelled to pay a second time.
After this answer was filed, the deposition of Fretz, the
husband, was taken by the complainants, which was the
only evidence in the cause. Fretz swore that Chilton had
no authority over the bond and deed of trust, except to take
charge of them and keep them safely, and to have the deed
recorded, all which he promised to do; and that he, Fretz,
had never given any authority to Ohilton to receive payment in any kind of currency; that the subject of payment
of the instruments had never been spoken of between the
parties.

Oct. 1874.]

FRETZ V). STOVER.
Argument for the Pennsylvania creditor.

Fretz further testified that at the time of Chilton's death,
Chilton was indebted to him on another account, over and
above any fees due for professional services; and that these
had been paid.
Subsequently Stover died, and a bill of revivor was filed
to make his brother, who was his sole devisee and legatee,
as also the executor of his will, a party defendant. The
brother appeared and answered, admitting the character
imputed to him by this bill, but setting up new defences
founded on alleged ratification of Chilton's acts by silence
and acquiescence after they came to the complainant's
knowledge; defences not made in the answer of Stover to
the original bill. The record did not show any replication
made either to the original answer or to the answer of the
executor.
On the hearing the bill was dismissed, and this appeal
was brought to revise that decree.
.Mr.John Sergeant Wise, for the appellants, contended that
the decree was erroneous; because,
1st. Chilton never was, by express appointment or implication, the attorney at law or in fact of Fretz to collect said
bond at all.
2d. If he was authorized at the time he received the bond
to collect it when due, his appointment was made in ignorance of and without reference to the contingency of war, and
in its very nature revoked by its breaking out.
3d. If he was agent or attorney with power to collect, and
the breaking out of war did not revoke and terminate his
agency, he had no right or power to take, and Stover had
no power to pay anything but gold and silver.
4th. Granting to Chilton every power which Stover contends he had, the power he did exercise, in view of the
mode in which and time it was exercised, was in collusion
with Stover, to the destruction of his principal's debt, without possibility of benefit to any one but Stover and himself.

FRETZ V. STOVER.

[Sup. Ut.

Argument for the Virginia debtor.

Mr. IF. Willoughby, contra:
I. We raise a preliminary point.
There being no replication either to the original answer
of Stover or to that of his executor answering the bill of
revivor, both are by settled chancery practice to be taken as
conclusively true "in all points," whether responsive to the
bill or not;* the reason of this being that the plaintiff, by
not replying, has excluded the defendant from the opportunity of proving his averments.
H. Passing to the main case.
1. The bill was filed August 9th, 1869, for the purpose of
setting up a deed of trust that had been paid and satisfied
in December, 1862, nearly seven years before, on the ground
that payment had been made in Virginia bank notes and
Confederate money, to an agent, without authority. It admits that the deed of trust was left with Chilton, as the
attorney at law of the complainant, for record, and the bond,
which it was given to secure, "for collection at its maturity."
Chilton died in 1867. The complainant did not disavow,
or object to such payment, before the death of Chilton; nor
did he do so at all before the commencement of the suit, at
least two years after he had full knowledge of the fact and
manner of payment.
2. Ohilton, who received the payments and satisfied the
deed of trust, had authority to receive payment. The whole
case shows this. The bill itself states so. He was the trustee in the deed of trust.
3. It is contended that if there was an agency, it was put
an end to by the fact of Ohilton's being in an enemy's country
during the war. But this is not true. "A person may have
an agent in the enemy's country to collect debts due to him,
and to preserve his property there." The fact that it may
have been illegal to remit, did not make it so to receive.
In addition, Chilton was trustee as well as agent. Ho was
not only the proper person to satisfy the deed of trust, but
he was the only one who could do so.
* Brinkerhoff v. Brown, 7 Johnson's Chancery, 222; Dale v. McEvers,
2 Cowen, 118.

Oct. 1874.]

FRETZ V. STOVER.
Opinion of the court.

4. But, it is denied that Chilton had authority to receive
in payment Virginia bank notes or Confederate currency.
In Hale v. Wall,* payment of bonds in Confederate currency and Virginia State bank notes, to an agent, under circumstances similar to those of this case, was held to be a
good payment, "in the absence of instructionsfrom. the principal,
not to receive such money."
The peculiar circumstances of this case have an important
bearing upon the rule of law as to such payments. In Fauquier County, Virginia, such currency was, at that time, the
only currency in circulation. It was in constant use; and
by that standard contracts were made, and all the business
of society carried on. Payments were constantly nmade in
such currency; and, in this respect, it was like the notes of
banks, with which all business had been carried on, and
which were always regarded as good payments, unless objected to at the time.
The bill of complaint is framed upon the theory that the
payment, made as it was, was the result of conspiracy between Stover and Chilton to defraud Fretz. This is denied
by the answer, and there is no proof in support of the
charge. The circumstances under which such payment was
made show entire good fidth. Mr. Chilton was an upright
lawyer, as is shown, primarily by the iact that implicit confidence had been placed in him by Fretz himself.
The only testimony in the case is that of Fretz, the husband, a party to the case, and a party embittered by longwaged litigation. Such testimony is really of little valdue.
If Chilton were alive, and we could have the benefit of his
testimony, a very different state of facts might appear from
that attempted to be made by Fretz, and on his making of
which his only hope of recovery depends.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
At the outset of this case we 'are met with the objection
that there is no replication in the record; but this objection,
* 22 Grattan, 424.

FRETZ V.

STOVER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

on the authority of Clements v. Moore,* should have been
made in the court below. Not having been made there, it
will be considered as having been waived. It would work
great injustice in this case to allow it to be taken here for
the first time, for manifestly the submission was not on bill
and answer, for proofs were taken, and it is to be presumed,
in the absence of anything in the record to the contrary,
that they were considered by the court in the disposition of
the cause.
So far as the answer to the bill of revivor was concerned,
no formal replication was required to avoid its effect as evidence in the cause. Nothing could be brought into the litigation by the bill of revivor besides the mere question
whether the brother, brought in on the bill of revivor, was
the executor of the will of Stover, and his legatee and devisee, for Catharine Fretz had been made a party to the
original suit before answer was made to it.t The new defences, therefore, set up in the answer to the bill of revivor,
were not pertinent to it, and cannot be considered in the
case.T
We are brought, therefore, directly to the question whether
the payments by Stover to Chilton were, under the circumstances surrounding the parties, of any validity.
It is argued by the appellants that the bond was not left
with Chilton for collection at all, but only for safe keeping
until it matured; but the bill avers the fact to be otherwise,
aud, naturally, it must have been so. Chilton had been the
aftorney of Fretz and wife through a protracted and angry
litigation, and, as the evidence shows, assisted at the compromise of it. This compromise was effected in February,
1861, and contemplated several transactions which could not
be completed until after Fretz's return to Pennsylvania.
Among these was the execution of the bond and deed of
trust in question. As Fretz could not in person see that the
papers were properly drawn, he intrusted that duty to Chilt Story's Equity Pleadings,
6 Wallace, 310.
Gunnell v. Bird, 10 Wallace, 308.

377,

Oct. 1874.]

FRETZ V. STOVER.
Opinion of the court.

ton, and the additional duty of having the deed recorded.
It was undoubtedly expected at the time that before the
bond matured Fretz would hold frequent communications
with Ohilton, and this may account for nothing being said
on the subject of collecting the bond. There was no necessity for it, as the bond had a long time to run, and, besides,
no trouble was anticipated about the collection of it. It is,
however, fairly to be inferred from the relation between the
parties that Ohilton had authority to collect and transmit,
in the absence of any specific directions oil the subject.
And if war had not intervened, and he had not been told to
collect the bond in legal currency alone, he would have
been authorized to receive payment in current bank bills
which passed at their par value in business transactions at
the place where the contract was to be performed. But if
this rule holds good when the country is at peace and undisturbed by civil commotion, it has no application in a state
of war like that of the late rebellion. That rebellion effected
a change in the status of the parties to this contract, and in
the relations between the appellants and Chilton. Although
the country was unquiet when these parties, in February,
1861, settled their differences, yet it would be a violent presumption to suppose that they anticipated the changed condition of things which soon after occurred. They doubtless
acted on the belief that the difficulties which threatened the
peace of society would be adjusted, and the monetary affitrs
of the country remain as they were. On this theory they
concluded their agreement, and Fretz repaired to his home
in Pennsylvania, leaving Ohilton to see that Stover performed his part of it. It may be that it was not expected
that the bonid which Ohilton obtained from Stover would be
paid in specie, but at least it was expected that it would be
paid in current bank notes, redeemable on presentation at
the counter of the banks issuing them. At any rate, it was
executed with reference to the standard of value then existing in the United States.
The war occurred, and Fretz was prohibited by the law
of the government under which he lived from holding corn-

FRETZ V. STOVER.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

munication with Virginia. If some persons did take the
risk and cross the line in order to save their property, certainly Fretz, who did not choose to break the law and encounter the danger, cannot be held responsible for not going
to Virginia and withdrawing the -bond and deed of trust
from the hands of Chilton. When, in 1864, he first heard
from Ohilton, he was told is papers were safe and would
be kept so, as nothing but Oonfederate money could be collected, which was valueless. And not until 1866 did he
learn the truth, although after the war closed he had frequent personal interviews with Chilton. This conduct of
Chilton's shows his consciousness that he had attempted to
wrong his principals and his unwillingness to disclose his
culpability. But it is of no importance what he attempted
to do, for his principals are not bound by his wrongful acts.
If he was authorized when he received the bond to collect
it when due, in bank bills which were current in Virginia
at the time, this authority was conferred in ignorance of,
and without reference to, the contingency of war, and in the
nature of things was revoked when war broke out. The
authority to collect was based on the power to remit, and
this it was impracticable, as well as unlawful, to do. Besides this, the authority to receive bank bills at all, in the
collection of debts, only rests on the theory that they pass
as money at their par value by the common consent of the
community, and can be used by the principal where he lives
in the common transactions of life. But when this is not
the case, and war has disturbed the country to that extent
that the paper used in Virginia to pay debts is of no value
in Pennsylvania, there is no longer any authority to take it
by an agent living in Virginia in discharge or a debt due a
citizen of Pen-nsylvania. If it were otherwise, then, as long
as the war lasted, every NYorthern creditor of Southern men
,was at the mercy of the agent he had employed before the
war commenced. And his condition was a hard one. Directed by his government to hold no intercourse with his
agent, and therefore unable to change instructions.which
were not applicable to a state of wbvr, yet he was bound by

Oct. 1874.]

FRP.TZ V. STOVER:.
Opinion of the court.

the acts of his agent in the collection of his debts the same
as if peace prevailed. It would be a reproach to the law if
creditors, without fault of their own, could be subjected to
such ruinous consequences.
If Chilton could not receive payment of the bond in Confederate paper and Virginia bank notes, neither had Stover
the right to pay them. It was a void act on his part to
attempt to discharge his debt in this way, as well as a fraud
in Chilton to suffer him to do so. His obligation when the
bond fell due was to pay it in the legal currency of the
United States, and yet he tries to discharge it in paper
worthless to Fretz, and with knowledge that, worthless as it
was, it could not be sent to him. If it be true that he did
not represent Fretz, still he had no right to do an act of
gain to himself, but of no benefit to Fretz. Besides, what
ground had he for supposing that Fretz gave authority to
Chilton to make such a sacrifice? As a sensible man he
must have known that this could not be so, especially as
the debt was secured by a deed of trust on a valuable farm.
It is impossible to escape the conviction that there was collusion between Ohilton and Stover in the transaction, but
whether this be so or not, the transaction itself wias invalid.In recognition that this might be the judgment of the
court, Stover asks that his payments may be applied towards
the debt for professional services due Chilton from the appellants. Without stopping to inquire whether this could
be done, if the appellants owed Chilton anything, it is enough
to say that the evidence shows that the indebtedness is the
other way.
It is claimed that the Virginia bank notes at least should
be treated as payment pro tanto, but, as we are advised, the
diflerence between their market value and that of Confederate bonds and notes was merely nominal during the war,
and when it ended the bank notes were worthless, being
only secured by Confederate bonds.* Apart from this, the
* See the ordinances adopted by the Convention of Virginia in June and
July, 1861, after the State bad seceded.

SWEENEY v.

LOMME.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

evidence shows they were, when paid, equally with Confederate paper valueless in Pennsylvania.
The views taken of this case accord with Ward v. Srith,*
and are supported by the Court of Appeals of Virginia in
Alley et al. v. .Rogers.t It follows, from what has been said,
that the bond given by Charles Stover to Isaac Fretz and
Catharine his wife has not been paid, or any part of it, and
that the deed of trust to secure it is still a subsisting security
in full force and eiffct.
DECREE REVERSED AND THE CAUSE REMANDED,

with instruc-

tions to enter a decree for Catharine Fretz, survivor of her
husband, in conformity with this opinion.
REVERSAL AND REMAND ACCORDINGLY.

S-WEENEY ET AL. V. LOMME.
1. In a suit on a replevin bond given to the sheriff, where the question
whether the proper party to sue is the sheriff or the party for whose
benefit the bond was given, depends upon the code of practice of Montana Territory, this court will not reverse the decision of the Supreme
Court of that Territory on the question; that being a question on the
construction of their own code.
2. In a suit on a replevin bond the defendants cannot avail themselves of
the failure of the court to render in the replevin suit the alternative
judgment for the return of the property or for its value; even if that
were an error for which that judgment might be reversed.
3. If a return be awarded in the replevin suit, the surety is liable on the
condition of the bond to return, and this without execution or other
demand for its return. The judgment establishes the liability.
4. Nor is this liability to be measured in this action by the value of the interest in the property of the attachment debtor, for whose debt it was
seized by the sherif. The value of the property at the time it was replevied, limited by the debt still due on the attaching creditor's judgment and the penalty of the replevin bond, are the elements of ascertaining the damages in the suit on that bond.
5. 'When it appears for the first time in the argument of a cause that the
* 7. Wallace, 451.

t 19 Grattan, 381.

