[Sup. Ct.

FRENCH, TRUSTEE, V. HAY.
Statement of the case.

The bill as to him was rightly dismissed, and in this respect the decree of the Circuit Court is
AFFIRMED.

NOTE.

AT the same time with the preceding case was argued, and
just after its adjudica tion was adjudged, another which here
follows, an offshoot from the first case, issuing from it as a
branch from a main stbck. It is requisite, of course, that before
reading the smaller case now given, the reader should be possessed of the larger one already reported.'
FRENCH, TRUSTEE, V. HAY.

When, in a case which is properly removed from a State court, under one
of the acts of Congress relating to removals, into the Circuit Court of
the United States, a complainant getting a decree in the State court
and sending a transcript of it into another State, sues the defendant on
it there, the Circuit Court into which the case is removed may enjoin
the complainant from proceedings in any such or other distant court
until it hears the case; and if, after hearing, it annuls the decree in
the State court, and dismisses, as wanting equity, the bill on which the
decree was made, may make the injunction perpetual.

THE present case was thus:

On the 3d of February, 1870, that is to say, six weeks after
the decree for $2389 (leaving the matter of furniture open), for
rents mentioned in the former case* as having been given, 23d of
December, 1869, in the County Court of Alexandria, in favor
of James French, the trustee, against Alexander Hay, the said
French sent a transcript of the decree to Philadelphia, the.place
of Hay's residence, and sued Hay on it, in one of the local courts
there. Hay had, two days before the transcript was sued on,
that is to say on the 1st of February, 1870, made the affidavits
requisite to remove the case into the Circuit Court of the United
States under the act of Congress; though the case was not yet
actually removed, nor indeed removed until the 12th following.
* Supra, p. 243, towards the bottom of the page.

Oct. 1874.]

FRENC.H,

TRUSTEE, V.

HAY.

Argument for the appellant.
On the transcript just mentioned, from the State court,
French got a judgment against Hay, in the local court at
Philadelphia, March 21st, 1871; and Hay at once* took the
case on error to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, where he
had it now pending.
Before the other side could get that court to proceed in the
case, Hayt filed a bill-the present bill-in the court belowthe Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Virginia-into
which he had, before this time and with a view of vacating all
that had been done there, removed the case from the County
Court of Alexandria, in which French as trustee had got the
decree against him for rents, and was about proceeding for the'
furniture. And in his said now bill prayed for and at once obtained, a preliminary injunction to restrain French from proceeding further in Pennsylvania or elsewhere to collect his decree in the County Court of Alexandria on the transcript. And
the said Circuit Court having at a later datel annulled that
decree and dismissed the bill on which it was founded (a course
of action which this court in the last preceding case approved
and affirmed) proceeded now,ยง after answer put in and testimony taken, to make perpetual the preliminary injunction which
it had previously granted restraining French from suing in
Pennsylvania or elsewhere on the transcript of the decree so
ultimately, with the affirmance of this court, annulled as aforesaid.
Fr'om this its action French took this appeal.
Mr. TV. TV. Willoughby, for the appellant:
1. When the case of French, Trustee, v. -ay et al. was removed
from the Alexandria County Court into the Circuit Court of the
United States, Hay, if he meant to restrain the use of the transcript, could have filed a cross-bill; and that would have been
the proper way. What we now have is an original bill, asking
the Circuit Court of the United States for Virginia to take
jurisdiction of things in the State of Pennsylvania. This sort
of bill was unallowable.
2. But there was a graver objection to the decree from which
we appeal. Its effect is to restrainthe proceedings of a State court.
April 5th, 1871.
$ October 22d, 1872.

-

June 1st, 1871.
January 11th, 1873.

FRENCH, TRUSTEE, V

HAY.

[SLIP. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The Circuit Court of the United States for Virginia is asked
to and does restrain the party from prosecuting a suit or enforcing a judgment which he has in the court of the State of
Pennsylvania.

Now, the Judiciary Act enacts :*

"Nor shall a writ of injunction be granted to stay proceedings in any
court of a State."
It is of no pertinence to argue that though the court itself
could not be enjoined, yet that a party suing in it may be. This
would do indirectly what the statute says shall not be done at

all.

In Peck v. Jennesst the court say:

" The fact that injunction issues only to the parties before the court, and
not to the court, is no evasion of the difficulties that are a necessary result
of an attempt to exercise that power over a party who is a litigant in another independent forum."

Even though a State court might enjoin a party from using
or enforcing a judgment in another State, the Federal court
cannot enjoin proceedings in any State court. The act of Congress has no effect upon the State court, but it has upon a Federal court, and says such court shall not enjoin proceedings in a
State court.
Messrs.

. 1. Wells and G. W. Paschall,contra.

3Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
A stronger equity can hardly exist than that which is developed in favor of the appellee in the case before us.
The order of the court below, annulling the decree upon which
the suit at law in Pennsylvania was founded, was fatal to that
action, and entitled Hay to a perpetual injunction, without reference to the final result of the prior case.
This bill is not an original one. It is auxiliary and dependent
in its character, as much so as if it were a bill of review.1 The
court having jurisdiction in personam had power to require the
defendant to do or to refrain from doing anything beyond the
limits of its territorial jurisdiction which it might have required
t 7 Howard, 625.
1 Stat. at Large, 334.
1 Logan v. Patrick, 5 Cranch, 288; Dunn v. Clark, 8 Peters, 1; Dunlap
v. Stetson, 4 Mason, 349, 360; Clark v. Mathewson, 12 Peters, 164.

Oct. 1874.]

FRENCH, TRUSTEE, v. HAy.

-253

Opinion of the court.

to be done or omitted within the limits of such territory.*
Having the possession and jurisdiction of the case, that jurisdiction embraced everything in the case, and every question
arising which could be determined in it until it reached its termination and the jurisdiction was exhausted. While the jurisdiction lasted it was exclusive, and could not be trenched upon
by any other tribunal.t The court below might, upon a crossbill, and, perhaps, upon motion, have given the relief which was
given by the interlocutory and the final decree in the case before us.
If it could not be given in this case the result would have
shown the existence of a great defect in our Federal jurisprudence, and have been a reproach upon the administration of
justice. In that event the payment of the annulled decree may
be enforced in Pennsylvania, and Hay, notwithstanding the
final decree in that ease, and in this case, would find himself in
exactly the same situation he would have been if those decrees
had been against him instead of being in his favor. They would
be nullities as regards any protection they could have given him.
Instead of terminating the strife between him and his adversary,
they would leave him under the necessity of engaging in a new
conflict elsewhere. This would be contrary to the plainest
principles of reason and justice.
The prohibition in the Judiciary Act against the granting of
injunctions by the courts of the United States touching proceedings in State courts has no application here. The prior
jurisdiction of the court below took the case out of the operation of that provision.
If the State courts should persist in proceeding-a thing not
to be expected-the wrong will be on the part of those tribunals
and not of the court below.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

* Watts'v. Waddle, 6 Peters, 391; Lewis v. Darling, 1 Howard, 1.

t Hagan v. Lucas, 10 Peters, 400; Taylor v. Carryl, 20 Howard, 484;
Freeman v. How, 24 Id. 460; Taylor v. Tainter, 16 Wallace, 370.

