PLEASANTS V. FAi T.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

PLEASANTS

v. FANT.

1. Where the question before the jury is whether F. (the defendant) was a
partner with K., so as to make him liable for the debts of the firm, X.I's
declarations to third persons are not admissible in favor of the plaintiffs
until they have established a primni facie case of partnership by other
evidence.
2. The admission of the defendant and the deposition of X. to the effect
that the defendant had procured for X. a loan of money to be used in a
purchase of cotton, and that K. had voluntarily promised to give the
defendant a part of the profits, if any were made, for his assistance in
procuring the loan, when no sum or proportion of profits was named,
does not raise such a presumption of partnership.
S. Nor is such evidence sufficient to require the court to submit the question
of partnership to a jury; and its instruction to find for the defendant
was right.
4. Such instruction is right where the court would decide for the defendant
on a demurrer to all the evidence, and the true rule in the case is that if,
to the judicial mind, the evidence, tested by the law of the issue and the
rules of evidence, is not sufficient to justify a jury fairly and reasonably
in finding a verdict for the plaintiff, the court should so tell the jury.
5. If the court can see that if a verdict for the plaintiff should be rendered,
it ought to be set aside as being unwarranted by the testimony, such instruction should be given in advance of the verdict.

EaRoR to the Circuit Court for the District of Maryland.
1R. & H. Pleasants sued Fant in the court below, and the
single question in dispute was whether the defendant was a
partner in the firm of Keene & Co., so as to charge him
with a debt conceded to be due by that firm to the plaintiffs,
arising out of some transactions in cotton. The case was
tried before ajury, and when thetesfinony was through, both
plaintiffs and defendant prayed instructions of the court,
which were all refused, and the court said to the jury,
"There is no evidence in this cause from which the jury can
find that the defendant had such an interest in the purehase
aid sale of the cotton by Keene & Co. as wil make him, the
defendant, a partner as to third persons, and the jury will, therefore, find their verdict for defendant."
The bills of exception disclosed the testimony on which
this instruction was founded, and the question now before

Oct. 1874.]

PLEASANTS

v. FANT.

Statement of the case.

this court was whether the verdict founded on that instruction should be set aside and the judgment reversed.
I The direct testimony offered to prove the partnership was
confined to the statements of Fant in a conversation with
one of the plaintiit and a clerk in their office, and the deposition of Keene, a partner of Keene & Co. The substance
of the former was that Faut denied that he was a partner,
said he knew from some experience what was necessary to
make him a partner, and admitted that he had procured for
Keene a loan of $10,000 in gold from a bank of which he
was president, and that he was to receive part of the profits
of Keene's venture in purchasing cotton with that money,
as compensation for procuring the loan. What portion of
the profits he was to receive was not stated.
Keene in his deposition denied that Fant was a partner in
the transaction, but said that Fant had negotiated for him
the loan from the bank, and he had made Fant a promise,
which was entirely voluntary, to give him a part 6f the pi-ofits
he might realize, and that he had mentioned no particular
part or proportion of the profits to be so given.
After the admission of this testimony, the plaintiffs, on the
ground that they had sufficiently shown a relation between
Fant and Keene to admit of Keene's declaration to .third
persons as to Fant's interest, offered to prove by one of the
plaintiffs, that Keene had told hirh Fant was a partner, and
asked that the plaintiffs would advance money enough on
the cotton then in their possession as brokers to enable him
to pay Fant his money and let him out of the firm. This
offer was objected to and the objection sustained by the
court.
A large amount of testimony, however, was admitted, the
object of which was to show that Fant, as president of the
bank, was in the habit of using the money of the banik in
private speculations, without the knowledge of the directors,
but which was very feeble and far from establishing that
fact."
Verdict and judgment having been given for the defendant, the plaintiffs brought the case here.

PLEASANTS

v.

FANT.

[Sup. Or.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

Messrs. I1\ . Steele and S. T. Wallis, for the plaihtffs in
error:
1. The English rule laid down in Waugh v. Carver,* makes
a participation in profits conclusive proof of partnership
under all circumstances.
In Berthold v. Goldsmith,t and in Seymour v. Freer,t this
court holds that the rule does not apply to "a' case of service or special agency, where the employ6 has no power,
as a partner, in the firm, and no interest in the profits, as property, but is.simply employed as a servant or special agent, and is
to receive a given sum out of tihe profits, or a proportion of the
same, as a compensationfor his services." Beyond that exce'ption the court does not go in its adjudication or its reasoning. There is nothing in either to countenance the idea
that a party, not an employe, but contributing, or lending,
or procuring the capital of a concern, can stipulate, ab initio,
for a share of its profits, as a compensation for doing so,
and.yet escape liability for its debts. And such an idea is
contrary to the whole current oF authority.ยง This court has
not followed some of the later English cases.I
2. The instruction given to the jury improperly took the
case away from it. The evidence undoubtedly did at least
tend to prove a participation in the profits; and while the
rule of evidence does not allow one partner to bind or speak
for the other, until'proof'has been given of his authority,
it nevertheless requires nothing more than proof tending to
2 Henry Blackstone, 235; S. 0. reported with notes in 1 Smith's Leading Cases, 7th ed., p. 1289.
t 24 Howard, 542, 543.
1 8 Wallace, 215.
Hesketh v. Blanchard, 4 East, 144 (8 Wallace, 222); Gouthwaite v.
Duckworth, 12 East, 422; Cheap v. Cramond, 4 Barnewall & Alderson,
667; Parker v. Canfield, 37 Connecticut, 2-50; Taylor v. Terme, 3 Harris & Johnson, 505; Benson v. Ketchum, 14 Maryland, 355; Sheridan v.
Medara, 2 Stockton, 475; Bearce v. Washburn, 43 Maine, 564; Brownlee
v. Allen, 21 Missouri, 123; Wood v. Yallette, 7 Ohio, 178; Catskill Bank
v. Gray, 14 Barbour, 477; Pierson v. Steinmyer, 4 Richardson's South
Carolina (Law), 310.
11Cox v. Hickman, 8 House of Lords Cases, 268; Bullen v. Sharp, 1 Law
Reports (0. P.), 86.

Oct. 1874.]

PLEASANTS v. FANT.
Opinion of the court.

establish the authority; proof legally sufficient to go to the
jury on the point.*
It is settled law that a Circuit Court has no authority to
order a peremptory nonsuit against the plaintiff's will.t
But very nearly the same result is reached if after a plaintiff has given-what he deems sufficient evidence of his case,
and which does confessedly tend to prove it, the court may
tell the jury what this court told the jury below.
Mr.R. T. Merrick, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
If the admission of Fant to plaintiffs, and the evidence of
Keene, are insufficient to raise a primafacie presumption of
partnership, then Keene's declarations on that subject were
inadmissible, and the court was right in its instruction to
the jury. If it was sufficient for that purpose then it was
erroneous, and the evidence here offered of Keene's statements to plaintiffs was improperly excluded.
The case rests after all on the question whether in Fant's
declaration to the plaintiffs and Keene's deposition there
was evidence of a partnership on which a verdict for plaintiff could have been sustained.
We have been favored by counsel with a reference, very
learned and very exhaustive, to the authorities on the question of how far or when a participation in the profits subjects a party to the liability of a partner to third persons.
And it must be confessed that some of the discriminations,
where profits are used as compensation for definite services,
are very nice.
We do not think that a close examination into these is
necessary in this case. According to Keene's testimony
there was clearly no contract binding him to divide the
profits with Fant. He says the promise was entirely vol* Rosenstock v. Tormey, 32 Maryland, 182, 183; Irvine v. Buckaloe, 12
Sergeant & Rawle, 35; Roberts v. Gresley, 3 Carrington & Paine, 380; National Bank v. Mechanics' Bank, 36 Maryland, 5.
t Elmore v. Grymes, 1 Peters, 469.

PLEASANTS v. FANT.

[Sup. Cr.

Opinion of the court.

untary, and that no portion of the profits was mentioned.
By voluntary he undoubtedly means that it was not a part
of the agreement by which lie obtained the money, but a
gratuitous promise to reward his friendship if ie succeeded
in his venture.
Fant's statement to the plaintiff, as detailed, by the latter,
differs but very little from this. As a compensation for obtaining the loan, he says that Keene agreed to allow him a
part of the profits, but how much or what proportion, or
whether it was a definite sum to be paid out of the profits,
or a proportionate part of the profits, is not shown.
If one of the most approved criteria of the existence of
the partnership in such cases be applied to this, namely, the
right to compel an account of profits in equity, the evidence
totally fails. In a suit for that purpose, founded on this precise statement, no chancellor would hesitate to dismiss the
bill.
But we are pressed with the proposition that it was for
the jury to decide this question, because the testimony received and offered had some tendency to establish a participation in the profits, and the question of liability under such
circumstances should have been submitted to them, with
such declarations of what constitutes a partnership as would
enable them to decide correctly.
No doub't there are decisions to be found which go a long
way to hold that if there is the slightest tendency in any
part of the evidence to support plaintiff's case it must be
submitted to the jury, and in the present case, if the court
had so submitted it, with proper instructions, it would be
difficult to say that it would have been an error of which
the defendant could have complained here.
- But, as was said by this court in the case of the Improvement Company v. ihlunson,* recent decisions of high authority
have established a more reasonable rule, that in every case,
before the evidence is left to the jury, there is a preliminary
question for the judge, not whether there is literally no
* 14 Wallace, 448.

Oct. 1874.]

PLEASANTS V. FANT.
Opinion of the court.

evidence, but whether there is any upon which a jury can
properly proceed to find a verdict for the party producing
it, upon whom the onus of proof is imposed.
The Enlglish cases there cited fully sustain the proposi-

tion,* and the decisions of this court have generally been
to the same effect.
In the case of Parks v. .Ross,t this court held that the
practice of granting an instruction like the present had superseded the ancient practice of demurrer to evidence, and
that it answered the same purpose and should be tested by
the same rules; and in tihat case it said the question for the
consideration of the court was whether the evidence submitted was sufficient to authorize the jury in finding the
contract set up by plaintiff. And in Schuehardi v. Allens,.
this case is referred to as establishing the doctrine that if
the evidence be not sufficient to warrant a recovery, it is the
duty of the court to instruct the jury accordingly.

In the case of Pawling v. The United Stales,ยง the court, by
Marshall, O.J., said: "The general doctrine on a demurrer
to evidence has been correctly stated at the bar. The party
demurring admits the truth of the testimony to which he
demurs, and also those conclusions of fict which a jury may
fairly draw from that testimony. Forced and violent inferences he does not admit, but the testimony is to be taken
most strongly against him, and such conclusions as a jury

might justifiably draw the court ought to draw."
It is the duty of a court in its relation to the jury to protect parties from unjust verdicts arising from ignorance of
the rules of law and of evidence, from impulse of passion
or prejudice, or from any other violation of his lawful rights
in the conduct of a trial. This is done by making plain to
them the issues they are to try, by admitting only such evidence as is proper in these issues, and rejecting all else; by
* See Jewell v. Parr, 13 0. B. 916; Toomeyv. L. & B. Railway Co., 3 0.
B. (N. S.), 146; Ryder v. Wombwell, 4 Law Reports, Exch. 33.
t 11 Howard, 362.
$ 1 Wallace, 359.
4 Oranch, 219; see also Bank of the United States v. Smith, 11 Wheaton, 171.

122

PLEASANTS

v. FANT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

instructing them in the rules of law by which that evidence
is to be examined and applied, and finally, when necessary,
by setting aside a verdict which is unsupported by evidence
or contrary to law.
In the discharge of this duty it is the province of the
court, either before or after the verdict, to decide whether
the plaintiff has given evidence sufficient to support or jnstify a verdict in his favor. Not whether on all the evidence
the preponderating weight is in his fivor, that is the business of the jury, but conceding to all the evidence offered
the greatest probative force which according to the law of
evidence it is fairly entitled to, is it sufficient to justify a
verdict? If it does not, then it is the duty of the court
after a verdict to set it aside and grant a new trial. Must
the court go through the idle ceremony in such a case of
submitting to the jury the testimony on which plaintiff
relies, when it is clear to the judicial mind that if the jury
should find a verdict in favor of plaintiff that verdict would
be set aside and a new trial had ? Such a proposition is absurd, and accordingly we hold the true principle to be, that
if the court is satisfied that, conceding all the inferences
which the jury could justifiably draw from the testimony,
the evidence is insufficient to warrant a verdict for the plaintiff, the court should say so to the jury. In such case the
party can submit to a nonsuit and try his case again if he
can strengthen it, except where the local law forbids a nonsuit at that stage of the trial, or if he has done his best he
must abide the judgment of the court, subject to a right of
review, whether he has made such a case as ought to be
submitted to the jury; such a case as a jury might justifiably find for him a' verdict.
Tested by these principles we are of opinion the Circuit
Court ruled well. If plaintiffs had secured a verdict on the
testimony before us we think that court ought to have set
it aside as not being warranted by the evidence. It is not
possible with any just regard to the principles of law as to
partnership, and the rules of evidence as applied to this tes-

Oct. 1874.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. PRATT.
Syllabus.

timohy, to come fairly and reasonably to the conclusion that
Pant was Keene's partner in this transaction.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. PRATT.

1. Though where goods received at one place are to be transported over

2.

3.

4.

5.

several distinct lines of road to another and distant one, the liability of
the common carrier first recei ving them (where no special contract is
made) is limited to his own line, yet he may subject himself by special
contract to liability for them over the whole course of transit. And
this is true of a railroad corporation possessed of the powers given to
railroad corporations generally and subject to corresponding liabilities;
such railroad corporations, ex. gr., as those incorporated under the general railroad law of New York.
If there is competent evidence of such a contract thus to carry, put before the jury, the weight, force, or degree of such evidence is not open
for consideraticn by this court.
What amounts to competent evidence. This matter stated in a recapitulation of the evidence given in this particular ease. A way-bill in
which the heading spoke of the goods as goods to be transported by the
first road, from the place of departure to the place at the end of the
whole line, and at which the owner wished to have them delivered, held
to be such evidence, whether looked upon as a contract, or as a declaration or admission.
Where in such a line of roads as that described in the first paragraph
above, the common carrier owning the first road undertakes to carry
goods over the entire line-part of the goods being put aboard the cars
on his line, and a part to be put on at its termination and where the
next road begins-the fare asked and agreed to be paid being, however,
the fare usually asked and paid for the carriage over the whole line, and
the contract being for transportation over the whole road and not for
carriage to the end of the first line and then for delivering to the carrier
owning the next road and for carriage by him-the fact that a part of
the goods were put on the cars only where the second road begins, will
not exonerate the owner of the first road from liability for their loss.
Where on such a line of road as that in the said first paragraph described,
the second road posts its rules in the station-house of the first, a person
furnishing goods for transportation "through" is not to be held as of
necessity to have notice of them from the fact of such posting, and because be wits often in the station-house of the first company where they
were posted. Independently of which, his contract being with the first
company only, and it agreeing to carly for the whole distance, its rules
are the rules that are to govern the case.

