RAILWAY COMPANY V. MOSIIANE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

It is hardly necessary to add that the act of the legislature
of April 12th, 1851, empowering the Hemphill Railroad
Company-to borrow money and pledge its property and income to secure the payment thereof, cannot be regarded as
exempting that company from the operation of the resolution of 1843.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and a
"VENIRE DE NOVO AWARDED.

RAILWAY COMPANY V. MOSHANE ET AL.
1. The Railway Company v. Prescott(16 Wallace, 603) modified and overruled so far as it asserts the contingent right of pre-emption in lands
granted to the Pacific Railroad Company, to constitute an exemption of
those lands from State taxation.
2. But affirmed so far as it holds that lands, on which the costs of survey
have not been paid, and for which the United States have not issued a
patent to the company, are exempt from State taxation.
3. Where, however, the government has issued the patent, the lands are taxable, whether payment of those costs have been'made to the United
States or not.
APPEALS from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Nebraska; in which court the Union Pacific
Railroad Company filed a bill to enjoin one McShane and
other persons, severally treasurers of different counties in
the said State, through which the road ran, and in which it
had lands, from the collection of taxes assessed upon them.
There were also cross-bills.
The case was thus:
An act 'of July 1st, 1862, creating the Union Pacific Railroad, enacted*"SECTION 3. That there is hereby granted to the said company for the purpose of aiding in the construction of said railroad . . . and to secure the safe and speedy transportation of
* 12 Stat. at Large, 489.

Oct. 1874.]

RAILWAY CoPANY V. MoSHANE.

Statement of the case.

the mails, troops, munitions of war, and public stores thereon,
every alternate section of public land . .. designated by odd
numbers, to the amount of five alternate sections per mile on
each side of said railroad, on the line thereof and within the
limit of ten miles on said road, not sold, reserved, or otherwise
disposed of by the United States, and to which a pre-emption or
homestead claim may not have attached at the time the line of
said road is definitely fixed ...
"And all such lands so granted . . . which shall not be sold or

disposed of by said company within three years after the entire road
shall have been completed, shall be subject to settlement and pre-emption, like other lands, at a price not exceeding $1.25 per acre, to be
paid to said company."
The statute went on to enatt that whenever the company
should have completed forty consecutive miles of any portion of its road, ready for the service contemplated by the
act, and supplied with all the appurtenances of a first-class
road, the President of the United States should appoint three
commissioners to examine it and report to him in relation
thereto; and if it should appear that forty consecutive miles
had been properly completed, then, patents were to issue
"conveying the right and title" to the lands to the company
on each side of the road as far as the same should be completed to the amount aforesaid; and patents in like manner
were to issue as each forty miles of road were completed.
An act of July 2d, 1864, amendatory of this act, after authorizing the company, on the completion of each section
of its road, to issue first mortgage bonds on the same to an
amount designated, and extending the grant for twenty miles
on each side of said road, enacted :*
"SECTION 21. That before any land granted by this act shall
be conveyed to the said company or party entitled thereto ...
there shall first be paid into the Treasury of the United States,
the cost of surveying, selecting, and conveying the same, by the said
company or party in interest, as the titles shall be requiredby said
company."
* 13 Id. 356.

RAILWAY

COMPANY V.

MOSHANE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

In the case of -Railway Company v. Prescott,* this act was
interpreted by this court, upon some clauses not necessary
to be here quoted, as making the costs of surveying attach
to all the lands granted to the road, whether by the original
act of 1862, or by the amendatory act, just quoted, of 1864.
The work of constructing the road was begun in 1865.
In 1867 the company, "for the purpose of raising money to
aid in the construction," mortgaged its lands to secure the
payment of $10,000,000. The terms of the mortgage required the trustees, upon payment of the bonds, to reconvey
the residue of the unsold lands to the company. It reserved
to the company the exclusive control'and management of
the lands, with power to sell the same; the purchase-money,
however, to be paid to the trustees before a conveyance was
made. The holder of bonds under the mortgage might purchase lands and pay for them in bonds.. Both company and
trustees were to join in any conveyance in order to make a
title.
By the 1st of April, 1869, a road capable of being safely,
and speedily travelled on, though susceptible still of many
obviously desirable improvements, was practically completed.
On the 10th of that same month, some allegations having
been made, that certain subsidies granted by the United
States to the company in government bonds, to aid in building the road, had not been applied in the exact way designed
by Congress, in the acts granting them, and so as to make
the road one absolutely of the "first class," a joint resolution
was passed, by which it was resolved that to ascertain the
condition of the road, the President should appoint a commission of five eminent citizens to examine into the matter
and report upon the condition of the road, and to report
also what sum, if any, would be required to complete it as
a first-class road, such as was contemplated by the acts of
Congress. A commission of five eminent citizens was accordingly appointed.
* 16 Wallace, 603.

Oct. 1874.]

RAILWAY COMPANY

V.

MICSHANE.

447

Statement of the case.

However, the commissioners whom the act of 1862 had
directed to decide whether the road was properly built and
in pursuance of the acts authorizing it, having certified that
it was so built, the President accepted it May 10th, 1869.
The commission of eminent citizens afterwards reported
that while the road was in its then state a good and reliable
means of communication, well equipped and prepared to

carry passengers and freight with safety and dispatch, yet
to make it a first-class road within their construction of the
act of Congress, would in their judgment require an expenditure of $1,500,000 more than had as yet been laid out
on it.

The joint resolution, just above mentioned, by its third
section had
"Resolved, That the President is hereby authorized to withhold from said company an amount of subsidy bonds, sufficient
to sccure the full completion as a first-class road, of all sections
of such road, ' or in lieu of such bonds he may receive as such
security an equal amount of the first mortgage bonds of such
company.'
The section enacted further, that in case it appeared to
the President that the amount of subsidy bonds yet to be
issued was insufficient to secure the full completion of the
road, requisition should be made on the company for enough
subsidy bonds, or enough of its own first mortgage bonds, to
secure full completion, and in default of obtaining such security, that measures should be taken "to compel the giving
of it, and thereby, or in any manner otherwise, to protect
the interest of the United States in said road, and to insure
the completion thereof as a first-class road, as required by
law and the statutes in that casd made."
As to the status of the lands now assessed, it appeared
that at the date of the levy and assessment of the tax in
question, the company had dealt with the lands, and was
now dealing with them as if they were in all respects their
absolute property. They had mortgaged them, as we have
already stated; were now advertising and selling them.

RAILWAY OOMPANY V. MOSHANE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

They did not recognize the right of the public to settle upon
or pre-empt, and to buy them at $1.25 per acre. On the
other hand, neither Congress nor the Interior Department
had taken any steps to subject the lands to settlement and
pre-emption.
Upon the report of the committee of" eminent citizens,"
und-r the joint resolution, already mentioned, of April 10th,
1869, tuat $1,500,000 would be required for supplying deficiencies in the road, the Secretary of the Interior, November 3d, 1869, to indemnify the government, ordered that
only one-half the lands to which the company would otherwise be entitled should be patented, and that patents for the
rest be suspended until further direction from the Department. Accordingly, in February, 1871, a patent issued to
the company under this order for about 640,000 acres of
land, half the quantity of the land; the Department refusing
to issue a patent for the other half. And so the matter now
stood; that is to say, patents for one-half of the company's
land were still withheld as security for the completion of its
road in matters reported as not up to the required standard.
It also appeared that of the lands situated within the tenmile limit, every alternate odd section which the company
claimed had been patented previous to the assessment and
levy of the tax, that the residue of the grants within like
limits was unpatented, and that the costs of surveying had
not been paid on any lands situated within the ten-mile
limit, whether patented or unpatented, because (as was
stated by the land agent of the company) not required by
the Interior Department.
In respect to the lands situated between the ten and
twenty-mile limits, it appeared that they had all been
selected, listed, certified, and that the land-office fees and
costs of surveying had been paid, and every alternate odd
section of those claimed by the company patented, the residue being unpatented.
In this state of things, the company, in July, 1873, filed
the present bill. It alleged that in 1872 the assessors of the
several counties where the lands were situated (which lands

Oct. 1874.]

RAILWAY COMPANY V. MCSHANE.
Statement of the case.

were described in lists filed as exhibits with the bill), assessed them, and that the boards of commissioners of the
same counties levied taxes fof State, school, and local municipal purposes upon them, and that the defendants, the
treasurers of these counties, were about to proceed to the
collection of those taxes by seizing and selling the locornotives, cars, and rolling stock generally of the company,.with
other personal property. The bill alleged further, that the
lands were not liable to any State taxation at the time of the
assessment or levy, and it prayed that these treasurer8 might
be enjoined from further proceedings for the collection of
them.
The grounds on which this exemption was claimed may be
divided into three distinct propositions, some of which were
applicable to all the lands and others to only part of them.
1. That by the third section of the act of 1862, under which
the company was organized, and by which the lands within
the ten-mile limit were granted in aid of the construction
of the road, it was provided that all such lands as should
not be sold within three years after the entire road shall
have been completed, shall be subject to settlement and preemption like other lands, at a price not to exceed $1.25 per
acre, to be paid to the company. And it was alleged that
these lands were liable to this pre-emption, which would be
defeated by a sale of them for the taxes.
2. That by the amendatory act of 1864, which extended
the grant to twenty miles on each side of the road, it was
provided that before any of the land granted should be conveyed to the company, there should first be paid into the
Treasury of the United States the cost of surveying, selecting, and conveying the same by the said company, and that
these costs not having been paid, a sale for taxes would defeat the right of the United States to enforce this claim and
recover their expenses out of the lands.
8. That under the joint resolution of April 10th, 1869,
authorizing the President to appoint a commission to inquire
into the manner in which the road had been constructed,
and, if the report was unfavorable, to take steps to secure
VOL. XXII.

29

450

RAILWAY COMPANY v. MCSHANE.

[Sup. Ct.

.Statement of the case.

its proper coistruction, the secretary had refused to issue
patents for these lands, withholding the title as security for
the performance of what was required in that respect.
The first two of the above grounds on which an injunctiou against the taxing was sought,'were based upon what
the complainants conceived was adjudged in Bailway Company v. Prescott,* it having been there adjudged as they
argued:
1st. That, whether patented or not patented, the lands
were not subject to taxation of the contingent right in the
United States of offering them to actual settlers at $1.25 per
acre, in case the company did not sell the same within three
years from the completion of the road; this objection being
based upon the closing part (italicized) of section three of
the act of 1862, supra, p. 445.
2d. That the right of the State did not, according to the
language of the syllabus in that case, attach " until the right
to the patent was complete and"the requisite title was fully
vested in the party without anything more to be paid, or
any act to be done going to the foundation of the right,"
and accordingly that prepayment by the company of the cost
of surveying, selecting, and conveying the lands granted,
being required by statute making the grant, before any of
the lands "shall be conveyed," no title vested, even to the
patented tracts, unless the required prepayment had been
made.
It was contended on the other side, and in behalf of the
right to tax, that -Railway Company v. Prescott was unlike
this case, since here1. The company had mortgaged the lands in anticipation
of a completion of the road; and applied the money received
to building the road; that this was a "disposition" of the
lands within the act of 1862, though it might not be a "sale"
within the meaning of the same act.
2. The company had received patents for half of the land.
3. The company had paid surveying fees on all unpatented
16 Wallace, 603.

Oct. 1874.]

RAILWAY COMPANY V. MCSHANE.

451

Statement of the case.

lands in the grant of 1864, and were ready to pay them on
the grant of 1862, and had not paid them on it only because
they were not asked for.
The court below, while it confessed to some difficulty in
distinguishing the case of Railway Company v. Prescott, on
either of the two points just stated, from the one now before
the court, was still of opinion that the authority of that case
might, as to the first point above mentioned, be escaped
from, so far at least as regarded the lands which the company held by patent. After observing that it would not say
whether a mortgage of the land was such a "disposition"
as would prevent the right of settlement or pre-emption, it
remarked that in Railway Company v. Prescott the taxes were
assessed before any patent was issued, and, in addition, that
the cost of surveying had not been paid. The learned judge,
in this connection said:
"I am inclined to consider the true meaning and effect of the
provision in question to be this: While the road is being constructed and for a period of three years after the completion of
the entire line, the company may sell or dispose of the lands at
their own price, and they are subject during this period to no
right of settlement or pre-emption; after the three years have
elapsed, the company may still sell or dispose of their lands in
good faith, but as to any lands not thus sold or disposed of,
there is a right on the part of the public to settle upon and
pre-empt them in the same manner as if they were part of the
public domain; the price, not exceeding 81.25 per acre, being
payable to the company instead of the government.
"If this be a correct view of section three of the act of 1862,
it results that the lands of the company, so far as they are
patented, are subject to taxation by the authority of the State,
and this privilege reserved in favor of the actual settler, and of
which he may never wish to avail himself, which is contingent
in its nature and subject to be defeated by a sale of the lands by
the company, is not inconsistent with, and will not defeat, the
rightful authority of the State to tax the lands."
On the second ground of exemption set up, he said:
"This ground of exemption, in view of the decision in the

RAILWAY COMPANY

V.

MOSHANE.

[Sup. Ct

Argument against the right to tax.

Prescott case, may be disposed of briefly. 'Upon the proofs in
this case, I am of opinion that lands which have not been
patented, either because the costs of surveying required by section twenty-one of the act of 1864 have not been paid, or because patents have been withheld by the Interior Department
as indemnity to make good the deficiencies in the construction
of the road, are not taxable, and to this extent the injunction
will be continued in force. But as to all lands which have
actullay been patented to the company, the injunction will be
dissolved. It is-true that, as respects the patented lands within
the ten-mile limits, the land agent of the company states that
the surveying'fees have not been paid, but he also states that
the reason why they were not paid was that the Interior Department did not require it.
"It does not appear that there are any lands not patented
which have been fully earned and set apart to the company
upon which all fees have been paid, and for which the patents
are not retained by the government for its own security, and
therefore, for all practical purposes, I hold that the lands in
this case may, upon the proofs before the court, be divided into
two classes: 1st, those which are patented and which are taxable; 2d, those which have not been patented and which are
not shown to be taxable."
The court below accordingly decreed a dismissal of the
bill as to all lands embraced in the company's patent of February 28d, 1871, and an injunction as to the lands which had
not been patented to the company.
From that decree both parties appealed; the company,
because any of its lands were allowed to be taxed; the
county-treasurer, McShane, because they were not all taxed.
Mr. A. J. Poppleton, for the railroadcompany:
The lands which have been taxed in this case are situated
in the same way as were those in Railway Company v. Prescott. Bbth bodies of lands were granted under the same acts
of Congress, to be used in the same way, to be held by the
same tenure, and upon similar conditions. The rule laid
down in the case just mentioned must, therefore, govern
this case.

Oct. 1874.]

RAIL wAY COMPANY V. MOCSHANE.
Argument against the right to tax.

That all lands in this case which are unpatented, and upon
which the costs of surveying have not been paid, or patents to
which are withheld by the government as security for a
completion of the road, according to the standard fixed by
its charter, are within the rule laid down in the case just
quoted, and, therefore, are not subject to State taxation,
seems to us too plain for argument. They are clearly within
the first ground assigned in that case for non-taxability.
In respect to all the patented lands- in this case, the exemption rests solely, we admit, upon the second ground laid
down in the same case, to wit, upon "the contingent right (in
the government) of offering the land to actual settlers at the
minimium price asked by the government for its lands." But we
insist that this ground, in the present case, is sufficient and
conclusive. It also operates upon both classes of lands.
Does this ground of exemption operate upon the patented
lands? The court below, though laboring hard to come to
such a conclusion, held that in respect to patented lands,
the case of Railway Company v. Prescott did not, of necessity,
control this.
The real question is, therefore, what is the principle of
exemptiou thus laid down by this court in the case of Railway Company v. Prescott, and from which the court below
sought to extricate the present case? Does it apply less to
patented than unpatented lands? As to one part, failure
of the company to perform all conditions precedent to a perfect right to a patent, exempts from taxation ; in the other,
an interest or a right of the United States in the lands,'operates as an exemption. The first is referable to the conduct and interests of the company; the second to the rights
of the government.
Is this right of the United States any less worthy of preservation after patent issued than before? Is it cut off by
the issue of a patent? If worthy of preservation at any
stage, what limit can be assigned except the limit of its existence in the United States. Unless the interest of the
United States was erroneously protected in the Railway Company v. Prescott (a matter not to be supposed), these lands

RAILWAY COMPANY V.

MCOSHANE.

[Sup. Ot

Argument in favor of the right to tax.

must be held exempt, on the ground of the contingent right
in the government of offering the lands at a minimum price.
This contingent right of the United States cannot be cut off
by the issue of a patent, for the following reasons:
1. No patent issued under the act could convey a greater
or better title than is authorized by it. The patent being
merely the evidence of the title granted by the acts of Congress, nothing inserted in it by the officers charged with the
administration of the grant could enlarge it.
2. To hold that this "contingent right of offering the
land to actual settlers at the minimum price asked by the
government for its lands," is extinguished by the issue of
the patent, is to nullify the right which this provision was
framed to create and protect.
lNothing can defeat the operation of the second ground of
exemption upon both classes of lands, except proof that the
lands have been "sold or disposed of," by the company, as
provided in section third, act July 1st, 1862. -Itdoes not relieve the question to show that the road was completed in
1869. For, in that case, the right of the United States to
require the sale of the lands at $1.25 per acre, has ceased to
be contingent, and become absolute.
lessrs. Clinton Briggs and J. C. Cowin, for the treasurer,
MeShane:
I. The company insists that the three years pre-emption
clause, contained in the third section of the act of 1862,
defeats the right to tax, and relies on Railway Conpany v.
Prescott. But, assuming-and this is but for the sake of
argument-that the court below did not put the right construction on that rather unintelligible section, still the case
relied on by the other side does not control this one.
By the teris of the act of 1862, the right to settlement
and pre-emption is to exist only in case that the lands are
not "sold or disposed of " within three years after the entire
road shall have been completed. The lands need nct be
"sol.l" within the three years. It is enough that thEy be

Oct. 1874.]

RAILWAY COMPANY V. MOSHANE.

455

Argument in favor of the right to tax.

"disposed of." When they were mortgaged they were "disposed of," even if they were not "so l d." The road was
completed, really, in May, 1869. These lands were mort-.
gaged in 1867. They were, in fact, already disposed of
when the road was completed. They were disposed of in
1867, two years before a title to them existed in the company. When, however, a title was obtained by the company
in virtue of the completion of their road, that title inured
to the mortgagees, on the well-known principle of "estoppel." The mortgagees, therefore, immediately on the completion of the road-and, of course, within the required three
years-held a valid mortgage.
This mortgage was for an immense amount, $10,000,000.
The bill does not allege that the lands had any value above
the mortgage. This $10,000,000 accomplished the same
purpose that a like sum would have done if paid by purchases of the fee, and the purposes of the grant were just as
well accomplished in one mode of disposition of the lands
as the other. Congress gave the lands-such is the language of the law-" for the purpose of aiding in the construction" of the road. The mortgagees have furnished the
aid-S10,000,000. Their money has enabled the company
to build the road and earn the lands. The mortgagees knew
that the money paid was for the precise purposes for which
the grant was made; they taking only the risk of the ability
of the company to earn the lands with the aid of this money.
The mortgage provides that the bondholder may purchase
lands and pay for them in bonds. He has the option to
sustain the relation of a mortgagee or that of a purchaser.
He has the right to refuse money and demand land iu payment at the appraised value. Thus the instrument is more
than a mortgage.
Then, in addition, the company in this case has received
patents for half its lands, and has paid surveying fees, &c.,
on those unpatented. It has advertised its lauds for sale
and sold them; assuming thus and otherwise by its acts an
absolute ownership. In these particulars, as in the one just
mentioned, the case is distinguished from .Railway Company

RAILWAY COMPANY V. MCSIHANE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of the right to tax.

v. Prescott, so far as that case rests on the obligation to give
pre-emption.
II. It is distinguishable also as respects the fees for surveying, &c. t
1. As respects the grant of 1864, the fees for surveying,
&c., have been paid in all cases, and whether patent- has
issued or has not issued.
2. As respects the grant of 1862, these fees are not asked
until after patent issues. The land department apparently
does not construe as does this court the twenty-first section
of the act of 1864, as applying to lands granted by the act of
1862. At all events it does not require prepayment of the
fees for surveying as to lands granted by the act of 1862;
lands within the ten-mile limit. The pon-payment of these
costs, therefore, is no impediment to the company's getting
a patent. It is now the equitable owner of these unpatented
lands, and so has a taxable interest in them. It is unimportant whether the patent was actually issued or not. The
company had earned the lands.
The land department of the United States, indeed, refuses to give a patent for some of the lands, not because the
surveying fees are not paid, as is required in regard to the
lands granted by the act.of 1864, undoubtedly (and as this
courthas decided as to those granted in 1862 also), but because the joint resolution of 1869 required that security
should be got for the making of a certain sort of perfect
road. But the joint resolution is not aimed at the lands.
It requires that subsidy or other bonds shall be held as security for the expenditure, and, if they are not voluntarily
given by the company, the Attorney-General is required to
institute suits "to compel the giving such security." There
is no intimation in the act that lands or patents are to be
withheld as such security. The act of the land department
in withholding patents is without authority. The commissioners had certified the road. The President had accepted
it. Anything further between the company and the United
States was matter for the courts.
The contingent rights in the United States, which in Rait

Oct. 1874.]

RAILWAY

COMPANY

V.

MCSECANE.

457

Argument in favor of the right to tax.

way Company v. Prescott was held sufficient to exempt lands
must-whether coming from the "pre-emption" cause, or
from the right to retain for payment of costs of surveying,
&c.-tothe eye of a practical man, appear as applied to the
present case but rights of a dim and shadowy sort.
How does the case stand ?
1. As respects the United States.
It "granted" the lands to the company in 1862. It accepted the road as completed in 1869, thus declaring that
the company had paid for-earned the lands. It issued
patent for 640,000 acres in 1871; and received from the
company the surveying, &c., on the lands not patented.
2. As respects the acts and declarations of the company.
It accepts the grants made by the United States. It declared, in 1869, that it had completed its entire road; thereby
asserting it had earned and was entitled to the lands. It
receives patents for a part of them, and pays the surveying fees, &c., on the residue. It mortgaged its grant, for
$10,000,000, and received the money and applied it to building the road. It exercised exclusive acts of ownership, by
selecting, classifying, advertising them for sale and selling
portions of its grant. It now asks the court to interfere by
injunction to prevent, of course, a cloud being cast upon its
titles.
Thus,'both the United States and the company say that the
lands belong to the company. Is not Nebraska then justified
in so regarding them and in seeking to make them, as private property, bear a just proportion of the public burdens.
We submit that every consideration of equity and justice
is in favor of the tax. How long, indeed, shall these immense bodies of land remain in the situation in which this
company would place them? not under the control of the
United States, so as to be open to settlement and cultivation, not owned by the company, so as to be subject to State
taxation; but owned by it when it wants lenders on mortgage, or when it wants purchasers; owned by it for every
beneficial purpose, but not owned for the purpose of bearing
any share of the public burdens.

RAILWAY COMPANY V.

MCSHANE.

[SUP. Ct

Reply.

Even if the United States has some claim against the
lands for surveying fees or anything else, it is difficult to see
how it could be prejudiced by a sale of them for taxes. This
court said in the case of Carroll v. Safford,*
"The sale for taxes is made on the presumption that the purchase from the government has been bond fide, and if not so
made the purchaser at the tax sale acquires no title, and consequently no embarrassment can arise in the future disposition of
the same land by the government."
A different view seems to have been taken in Railway
Company v. Prescott. But this question is not involved here.
Reply:
The position of the other side is that the contingent preemption right in favor of settlers of the United States, protected by Railway Company v. Prescott, has been destroyed
because the company has mortgaged the lands, and so " disposed of" them. But both the legal and the ordinary signification of these words import an absolute parting with all
control over or reversionary interest in the lands. Neither
a mortgage nor a contract of sale accomplishes such an alienation of interest and control. In both cases the company
retain an interest in the thing mortgaged or contracted to
be sold which may, upon the happening of certain events,
revest a complete title in a part or of all the property. Suppose, after the execution of the mortgage, the company had
got money, from subsidy bonds or from some other source,
and had discharged the mortgage, not an acre of the land
having been yet sold. Could it be contended that the simple
making of the instrument of mortgage was such "disposition
of" the land as would defeat the operation of the third section of the act of 1862?
If such an interpretation be accepted, then a mortgage,
however inconsiderable, a contract to convey, with however
irresponsible a party-and each with an absolute certainty
* 13 Howard, 462.

Oct. 1874.]

RAILWAY

COMPANY v. MOSHANE.

459

Reply.

of reversion to the company of a title in fee-would operate
to defeat the intent of Congress.
If, therefore, the purpose and object of Congress in framing the section under consideration, was that authoritatively
declared by this court in the case of Railway Company v.
Prescott, it is submitted with confidence that no form of
conveyance, and no species of alienation of granted lands,
which falls short of an unconditional parting with the control of and title to the same, either present or reversionary,
legal or equitable, can operate to defeat the condition imposed by the section in question.
Therefore, certainly all the lands in controversy, patented
or unpatented, not having been either "sold or disposed of"
by the company, whether the three years from the date of
the completion of the road have elapsed or not, are subject
to the contingent right reserved by Congress in the section
under consideration; and are, therefore, not subject to taxation.
And the same thing is true of all lands, whether patented
or unpatented, upon which the costs of surveying, &c., have
not yet been paid. The language of the statute of 1864 is
absolute, and has been held by this court, in one part of the
same case of Railway Company v. Prescott, to apply to the
ten-mile grant of 1862 as well as to the twenty-mile grant
of 1864. Otherwise, by a colorable conveyance, or by a
contract of sale, the onerous terms of which would provide
for and make sure a forfeiture, or by a mortgage for a sum
so inconsiderable as to render redemption morally certain,
the whole object of the provision would be easily defeated.
Nqfor is the question modified by the circumstance that the
mortgage is for a large sum; especially when itappears that
the proceeds of the sales of the lands which are being made
are pledged, and are being applied to the payment of the
mortgage debt.
The mode adopted by the company for rendering the
grant available for the purpose for which it was made must
have been anticipated by Congress when passing the act.
Sales of the lands before the road is built, and in quantities

RAILWAY COMPANY V. MCSHANE.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

such as to realize sums ot much use in carrying forward the
work, are known to be impossible. By means of a mortgage
upon them, with a pledge to its redemption of the proceeds
of the sales of the lands after their value has been greatly
increased by the building of the road, the funds for the purpose can be raised, and they have never been raised by other
means. With this knowledge, it is impossible to think that
Congress, in the terms of the third section, intended to include a mortgage of the lands, and defeat the very important object of the clause, almost at the very moment of
enacting it.
The construction contended for on the other side involves
the matter in infinite confusion. This company is selling
the lands and applying the proceeds to pay off the mortgage.
If, by the sale of one-fourth thereof, the whole mortgage
debt is paid, is there a disposition of the remaining threequarters ?
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
We will take up, without restating them, the three several propositions which present the grounds on which the
exemption from State taxation is claimed,* and in examining their legal bearing on the case will at the same time,
where it is necessary, inquire how far they are supported
by the facts of the case, and will then look into the other
matters set up by way of defence.
The first and second of the propositions relied on by the
railroad company are supposed to find sufficient support in
the case of.Railway Company v. Prescot.t
That was a suit by the Kansas Branch of the Union Pacific Railroad Company to have declared void a sale of some
of its land for taxes, made under State authority, and this
court granted the relief on the ground that the land was
not liable to taxation at the time it was assessed for the
taxes under which it had been sold. INo patent had been
issued to the company when the taxes were assessed, and
* Stated, supra, pp. 449, 450.-REP.

t16 Wallace, 603.

Oct. 1874.]

RAILWAY COMPANY V. MCSIANE.
Opinion of the court.

the costs of surveying the land had not been paid to the
government by any one. This court reaffirmed the doctrine
that lands which had constituted a part of the public domain might be taxed by the States before the government
had parted with the legal title by issuing a patent, but that
this could only be done when the right to the patent was
complete, and the equitable title fully vested in the party,
without anything more to be paid, or any act to be done
going to the foundation of his right. And it said that in that
case the United States had a right to retain the patent until
the costs of surveying the land had been paid, which had
not been done, and that the right of pre-emption in lands
unsold by the company within three years after completion
of the road, would be defeated if a sale for State taxes could
be made which would be valid.
This latter ground was not necessary to the judgment of
the court, as it rested as well on the failure to pay the costs
of surveying the land. And we are now of opinion, on a
fuller argument and more mature consideration, that the
proposition is not tenable.
The road was completed and accepted by the President in
May, 1869, and these lands have been subject to such preemption since three years from that date, if this right can
be exercised by the settler without further legislation by
Congress, or action by the Interior Department. We do
not now propose to decide whether any such legislation or
other action is necessary, or whether any one, having the
proper qualification, has the right to settle on these lands
and, tendering to the company the dollar and a quarter per
acre, enforce his demand for a title. It is not known that
any such attempt has been made, or ever will be, or that
Congress or the department has taken, oi' intends to take,
any steps to invite or aid the exercise of this right. It would
seem that if it exists, it would not be defeated by the issue
of the patent to the com-pany, and it may, therefore, remain
the undefined and uncertain right, vested in no particular
person or persons, which it now is, for an indefinite period
of time. The company, meantime, obtains the title, sells

RAILWAY COMPANY

V. MOSHANE.

[Sup. Gt.

Opinion of the court.

the lands when a good offer is made, and exercises all the
other acts of full ownership over them, without the liability
to pay taxes.
We are of opinion, therefore, that this right confers no
exemption from taxation, whether the land be patented or
not; and so far as the opinion in the case of Railway Company v. Prescott asserts a different doctrine, it is overruled.
But the proposition that the State cannot tax these lands
while the cost of surveying them is unpaid, and the United
States retains the legal title, stands upon a diffirent ground.
The act of 1864, section twenty-one, declares that before
any of the lands granted by this act shall be conveyed to the
company, there shall first be paid into the treasury of the
United States the cost of surveying, selecting, and conveying the same.
That the payment of these costs of surveying the land is
a condition precedent to the right to receive the title from
the government, can admit of no doubt. Until this is done,
the equitable title of the company is incomplete. There remains a payment to be made to perfect it. There is something to be done without which the company is not entitled
to a patent. The case, clearly, is not within the rule which
authorizes State taxation of lands the title of which is in the
United States.
The reason of this rule is also fully applicable to this case.
The United States retains the legal title by withholding the
patent, for the purpose of securing the payment of these
expenses, and it cannot be permitted to the States to defeat
or embarrass this right by a sale of the lands for taxes. If
such a sale could be made, it must be valid if the land is
subject to taxation, and the title would pass to the purchaser.
If no such title could pass, then it is because the land is not
liable to the tax; and the treasurers of th" counties have no
right to assess it for that purpose.
But when the United States parts with her title, she has
parted with the only means which that section of the statute
gives for securing the payment of these costs.

Oct. 1874.]

RAILWAY COMPANY V. MCSHANE.

463

Opinion o'f the court.

It is by retaining the title that the payment of costs of
survey is to be enforced. And so far as the right of the
State to tax the land is concerned, We are of opinion that
when the original grant has been perfected by the issue of
the patent, the right of the State to tax, like the right of the
company to sell the lands, has become perfect.
It is admitted that part of the lands in dispute have been
patented, and part of them have not. And the circuit judge
in his opinion and decree divides them into the patonted
and the unpateuted lands, and we concur in his opinion that
there is no reason why the patented lands should not be
taxed.
As to those which are not patented, it may be assumed
from the evidence in the case that on none of them have the
costs of survey been paid or tendered to the United States,
and if they are all subject to that provision of the act of
1864 they are not liable, on the principle we have stated, to
be taxed. It is said, however, by counsel for the State, that
the Interior Department has never demanded the costs of
surveying the lands within the original ten-mile limit, in
cases in which they have issued patents, and do not claim
them in those for which no patent has been issued; that
as the non-payment of these costs, therefore, is no impediment to demanding and receiving the patents, the equitable
title is complete, and they should be held subject to taxation.
We held, however, in the case of Railway Company v.
-Prescott,that these costs of survey attached to all the lands
granted to the road, whether by the original act or by the
amendatory act of 1864, and we have no sufficient evidence
before us that the Department of the Interior has acted on
a different principle. If, however, they have done so heretofore, it is not for us to say that they will grant patents
hereafter without payment of these costs; and in a case
where we are called on to decide whether such costs are
lawfully demandable before the legal title of the company
is perfect, we must abide by our own construction of the
statute.
It is said, however, that these lands have been mortgaged

464

HUNNEWELL V. CASS COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

by the company under sanction of the act of Congress on
that subject, and that the mortgage conveys the legal title
out of the United States, so that her rights can no longer
be interposed to protect them from taxation.
It is not necessary to go into the merely technical question whether the legal title passed from the United States
by virtue of that mortgage and the act of Congress which
authorized it, nor whether, if it ever becomes necessary to
foreclose that mbrtgage, the rights of the United States in
the laud would be divested by the proceeding, because we
are satisfied that the United States, until she conveys them
by patent or otherwise, has an interest, whether it be legal
or equitable, which the State of Nebraska is not at liberty
to divest Jby the exercise of the right of taxation.
Under these views we are of opinion that the State had
no right to tax the lands for which the cost of surveying had
not been paid, and for which no patent had been issued;
and as the decree of the Circuit Court was made in conformity with these principles, it is
AFFIRMED.

HUNNEWELL V. CASS COUNTY.
1. Under the act of July 2d, 1864 (18 Stat. at Large, 364), which gave
to the Burlington and Missouri River Railroad Company every alternate section of the public lands, to the amount of ten alternate sections

per mile on each side of the road on the line thereof, but enacted in its
twenty-first section that "before any land granted by this act shall be
conveyed to the said company there shall first be paid into the Treasury
of the United States the cost of surveying, selecting, and conveying the

same by the said company," it is not clear what the "cost of conveying" is, no statute known to the court authorizing a charge or fee for
issuing a patent. Nor is it clear whether, under the terms the "cost
of selecting and conveying," the fees of $1 for each final location of one

hundred and sixty acres, given to registersand receivers by the act of
Congress of July 1st, 1864 (13 Stat. at Large, 365), is meant or not.
2. Nor under the General Statute 907, of the State of Nebraska, is it plain
what is the latest day at which by the laws of that State the right to
assess lands for taxation can be exercised for any given year.

