[Sup. Ct.

Ross v. JONES.
Statement of the case.

upon property used in the exercise of its franchises, but
upon lands which it had mortgaged and was holding for
sale. The distinction and the consequences have been considered. We need say nothing further upon the subject.
We think the demurrer was 'ecessarily
the bill properly dismissed.

sustained, and

DECREE AFFIRMED.

Ross, ADMINISTRATOR,

V. JONES.

1. The late civil war was flagrant in Arkansas from April, 1861, till April,
1866, and the statutes of limitation did not run during that term.
This principle applies to suits between persons in different States of the
late so-called Confederate States of America, as much as to suits between
citizens of States of the North, which remained loyal, and citizens of the
said so-called Confederate States, with which they were at war.
2. An indorser of a promissory note, though an indorser for accommodation
only, is not a "person bound as security " within the meaning of the
statute of Arkansas which enacts that any person bound as "security"
for another, on any bond, bill, or note, may at any time after action has
accrued thereon require the person having, such right of action forthwith to commence suit against the principal debtor, on penalty of such
security being exonerated.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Arkansas; the case being thus: ,
On the 11th of June, 1864,* Congress enacted that-:
"eWhenever, during the existence of the present rebellion,
any action . . .shall accrue against any person who by reason

of resistance to the execution of the laws of the United States,
or the interruption of the ordinary course of judicial proceedings,
cannot be served with process; OR whenever after such action
. . . shall haveaccrued such person cannot, &c.

The time during which such person shall so be beyond the
reach of legal process, shall not be deemed or taken as any part
*

13 Stat. at Large, 123.

Oct. 1874.]

ROSS V. JONES.
Statement of the case.

of the time limited by law for the commencement of such
action."

In addition to this, this court has repeatedly decided that
during the civil war, the courts of the United States in the
insurrectionary States were closed, and that statutes of limitation did not run against suitors having a right to sue in
the Federal courts.*
It has also decided that in Arkansas tle war was flagrant
from April, 1861, till April, 1866.t
In the State just named, actions of assumpsit are barred
by the statute of limitations in five years.
Another statute of the Statet thus enacts:
"SECTION 1. Any person bound as security for another in any
bond, bill, or note, for the payment of money, or the delivery
of property, may, at any time after action hath accrued thereon,
by notice in writing, require the person having such right of
action forthwith to commence suit against the principal debtor
and other party liable.
"SEcTIoN 2. If such suit be not commenced within thirty
days after the service of such notice, and proceeded in with due
diligence, in the ordinary course of law, to judgment and execution, such security shall be exonerated from liability to the per.
son notified."

In this condition of the law, on the 31st of January, 1860,
Rives gave to Bull-both persons being citizens of Arkansas-a promissory note, payable on the 1st of November,
1861. Bull indorsed it to Jones, of Memphis, Tennessee;
both the States of Tennessee and Arkansas having, in the
late civil war, been members of the so-called Confederate
States of A merica. The note was not paid at its maturity,
and it having been protested, notice of the dishonor, &c.,
was given to Bull.
Bull died iu Novemb.er, 1869, and letters of administration on his estate were granted to one Ross.
* Hanger v. Abbott, 6 Wallace, 539; Brown v. Hiatts, 15 Id. 177, and
other cases.
t Batesville Institute v. Kauffman, 18 Id. 151.
+ Gould's Digest, 1015.
VOL. XXII.

87

Ross V. JONES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Jones, now, October 13th, 1871, brought assumpsit on the
note against the administrator, Ross, on the indorsement of
Bull, his intestate.
The defendant pleaded two pleas.
1. The first plea was the statute of limitations of five years.
The plaintiff replied to this plea:
"That from the 1st of June, 1861, to the 2d of April, 1866, a
war existed between the United States and the Confederate
States, including the State of Arkansas, where during all that
period the said Bull resided, and that during all that period the
courts of the United States in and for the State of Arkansas
were, by reason of the said war, closed, and no process could be
issued therefrom or served on the said Bull, the authority of the
United States therein being resisted, &c. That the said Bull
died in said State on the 15th November, 1869, and that letters
testamentary were granted, &c.; and that, counting out the period of the said war, the plaintiff's cause of action did accrue
within five years next before the said grant of letters on the
estate of Bull."
The defendant rejoined:
"That during the said rebellion, and on account thereof, the
said courts were so closed that legal process could not be issued
against this defendant from the month of MIay, 1861, until the
month of March, 1865, and not longer; without this, that said
courts were so closed from the 1st day of June, 1861, to the 6th
of August, 1865."
The plaintiffs demurred to the rejoinder:
"Because it puts in issue a matter of public law pleaded in the
said replication."
The court sustained this demurrer.
2. The second plea (which was founded on! the abovequoted statute about persons bound as security for another
in any bill, note, &c.) was thus:
9-'That Bull was only an indorser on the note, and, as such,
,only security; that Rives was the principal, and had ample
1property and effects out of which to make the debt, and that
after the note had become due and payable and been protested

Oct. 1874.]

iRoss v. JONES.
Argument for the debtor.

for non-payment, to wit, on the 1st day of January, 1861, Bull had
given notice to Jones to bring suit upon the note immediately,
and that in default of then doing so he, Bull, would hold himself free from all liability on the same. But that Jones had not
brought suit on the note for more than the space of thirty days,
nor indeed until the bringing of the present suit, October, 1871."
The plaintiih demurred to this plea because:
"1. The indorsement of Bull made him primarily liable to the
plaintiffs on his contract of indorsement. His contract was
separate and distinct from that of Rives, the maker of the note.
There was no unity or privity of contract between Rives and
Bull; and Bull was in no sense the surety of Rives on his contract.
"2. The liability of Bull on his contract as indorser became
perfect on protest of the note and notice, and he could not discharge it by the matter set up in the plea under the statute of
Arkansas."
The court sustained this demurrer. Both demurrers
being thus sustained, judgment was given for the plaintiff;
and the administrator brought the case here, assigning for
arrors-

1. That the court erred in sustaining the plaintiff's demurrer to defendant's rejoinder to his replication to plea of
statute of limitation.
2. That the court erred in sustaining the demurrer to defendant's third plea.
Messrs. S. F. Clark and S. W. Williams, for Bull's administrator, the plaintiff in -error:
I. In regard to thefirst error assigned.
The replication is founded upon the act of Congress of
June 11th, 1864.
The gist of the replication is the fact that the courts were
closed, and that no legal proceedings could be had for a
certain length of time during the war, under this act of Congress. And the real issue, if it raises any at all, is whether
the courts were so closed a sufficient length of time to take
the case out of the operation of the statute. The act does

Ross v.

JONES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the debtor.

not provide any particular length of time during which the
statute of limitation should cease to run, but only during
such time as the courts were closed, and thus left it a matter
of fact to be determined by evidence. It being a matter of
fact, the rejoinder is a special traverse.*
The demurrer admits the truth of the rejoinder, i. e., that
the courts were not closed from June 1st, 1861, to April 2d,
1866, but only from the month of May, 1861, to the month
of March, 1865, which would not be a sufficient length of
time to take the case out of the operation of the statute.
Now, it is plain that if the gist of the replication is the time
during which, under the act of Oongress, the courts were
closed, then the rejoinder sets up a matter of fact, and the
rejoinder is well pleaded. But no matter what is the substance of the replication if the rejoinder pleads only matters
of law, then the replication is obnoxious to the same objection. A bad rejoinder is good enough for a bad replication.
The effect of demurrer, in such case, is to reach back to the
replication.
In such cases judgment must be given against the party
committing the first fault in pleading, which is here the
plaintiff's. And if the demurrer be sustained, the judgment
should be against the replication, and the court erred in not
so deciding. If the judgment on the demurrer is right, then
the plea of the statute of limitations is unanswered, and as
the plea is a good bar, the final judgment should have been
for the defendant.
The replication plainly sets up the war and the closing of
the courts thereby, as jointly operating under the act of Congress referred to, to intercept the running of the statute.
The -allegation of neither one of these facts alone would
have been an answer to the plea. The act does not contemplate a case where the war might h'ave existed, but where
the courts were nevertheless open, and the parties were at
liberty to prosecute their actions. Yet that was the fact
here, apd in all or most cases where both parties to the suit
resided in the States in insurrection. The case, therefore,
* I Chitty's Pleadings, 620.

Oct. 1874.]

Ross v. JONES.
Argument for the debtor.

does not come within the principle involved in Hanger v.
Abbott,* a case between a debtor and creditor, citizens of two
opposing belligerents at war. The parties here were at all
times citizens of Arkansas and Tennessee, respectively-both
States being States of the Southern Confederacy and same
belligerent in the war. Intercourse between these States
was not at any time interdicted, either by proclamation of
the President or as an effect of the war. A payment of the
debt at any time would have 'been legal. At any time the
plaintiffs were at liberty to sue on the claim, provided any
court had been open having jurisdiction of the cause. And
it is judicially known that the court which tried this case
below was open and doing business as early as April, 1864.
From that time, at least, there was no impediment, either
iii law or fact, in the way of the plaintiff's recovering his
debt. It has never been held in England that civil war and
commotion in any manner arrested or suspended the laws,
except between communities as to whom belligerent rights

had attached, and non-intercourse had been declared. By
one unbroken chain of decisions, from Henry the Eighth's
time to the present, it has been held that insurrection and
civil war did not interfere with the running of their various
laws of limitation.t
Had the statute of limitations ceased to run by operation
of our civil war, there would not have been the act of Congress of the 11th June, 1864.
IL As to the second error assigned, that the court below erred
in sustaining the plaintiff's demurrer to defendant's second plea.
The action of the court below assumed that an indorser
of a note is not a "security" within the statute of Arkansas,
which authorizes securities to insist upon the obligee fo use
diligence in pursuing the principal; that it is the duty of
the indorser to take up the note, and thus pursue his remedy
over against the maker or other party. This no doubt is
* 6 Wallace, 532.
t Stowel v. Zouch, 1 Floi'den, 353; Prideaux v. Webber, 1 Levinz, 31;
Hall v. Wybourn, 2 Salkeld, 420; Aubry v. Fortescue, 10 Modern, 206Miller v. Predeaux, I Keble, 157.

Ross v. JoNEs.

[sup. Ct.

Argument for the creditor.

true with reference to indorsers in due course of business
under the law merchant. But the statute of Arkansas gives
a, specific right to this remedy to "any person bound as
security for another in any bond, bill, or note," &c. And
the facts alleged in the plea, which are admitted by the
demurrer, make him a security within that statute. The
statute certainly contemplates that a party can become connected in some way as "security" in a note. But how can
he become so more fitly than in the way here resorted to?
His being a security is a matter of fact, and does not at all
depend upon the form of his relation to the note. He may
be security in many ways, as indorser or as maker.
It will not do to say that a party cannot, as an indorser, be
a security. The utmost that the law, independent of the
statute, declares, is that he is not such by virtue of the relationship. And it has been always held that he might prove
himself so in fact, in order to entitle himself to the rights of
a security as against the principal.
In Bradford v. Corey,* the court say:
"But although an indorser stands in the relation of a security
to the drawer, in consequence of an indorsement of an accommodation note, or of a special promise of the latter to save him
harmless, he does not lose his character as indorser, as respects
the holder of the note, and he cannot be made liable on the
note without a demand and notice. He continues indorser, with
all the privileges of a surety."
Mr. A. -H. Garland, contra:
I. As to thefirst errorassigned.
The replication does not rest on the act of Congress so
much as it rests on what this court has adjudged in several
cases since the war broke out, and especially what it adjudged in Batesville Institute v. Kauffman,t and where it held
that the war was flagrant in Arkansas from April, 1861, to
* 5 Barbour, 461; and see Bank v. Klingensmith, 7 Watts, 523; Grew
v. Burditt, 9 Pickering, 265.
t 18 Wallace, 151.

Oct. 1874.]

Ocs 1 . JONES.
Argument for the creditor.

April, 1866, and that the courts of the United States, in
contemplation of law, were closed during that time, and
that hence the statutes of limitation did not run during it.
That is ail matter of law.
Counting out this period, the action was not barred.
The replication to the plea of limitation set up, in effect,
that the courts were closed during that period.
The rejoinder to the replication alleged, in effect, that the
courts were closed for a shorter period, which presented a
matter of law merely, and the demurrer was properly sustained to it.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error insists that inasmuch
as both parties resided within the States in rebellion, the
limitation was not suspended during the legal period of the
war in Arkausas. But whatever countenance such a doctrine may find in the cases referred to in Plowden, Leviuz,
Keble, and other reporters of cases during the different civil
wars in England, it has no countenance in the decisions of
this court.
In Adger v. Alston,* the plaintiff below was a citizen of
South Carolina, and the defendant's intestate a citizen of
Louisiana, and the court applied the principle settled in
.anger v. Abbott.t
In Batesville Institute v. Iauffman,T the plaintiff resided in
Louisiana and the defendant was domiciled in Arkansas,
and the court held that the statutes of limitation were suspended during the period above stated.
The demurrer to the rejoinder was, therefore, still properly sustained.
IT. As to the second error assigned.
The statute of Arkansas enacts that a surety in any bond,
bill, or note, may give the holder notice to sue the principal
in writing, and if he fails to do so within thirty days the
surety shall be discharged.
This plea was demurred to, on the grounds: 1. That the
*15

WVallace, 560.

t- 6 Id. 632.,

$ 18 Id. 153.

Ross v. JoNEs.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument for the creditor.

indorsement of Bull made him primarily liable to plaintiffi
on his contract of indorsement. That his contract was separate and distinct from that of Rives, the maker of the note.
That there was no unity or privity of contract between Rives
and Bull, and Bull was in no sense the surety of Rives on
his contract. 2. That the liability of Bull on his contract
as indorser became perfect on protest of the note and notice,
and he could not discharge it by the matter set up in the
plea under the Arkansas statute.
The Supreme Court of Arkansas has never decided that
an indorser of a bill or note was a surety under the above
statute.
The indorser of a note or bill is not a surety within the
meaning of this statute.
The note was dated and payable in Tennessee, and the
contract of the maker governed by the laws of Tennessee.
The indorsee lived in Tennessee, and could in no event be
affected by an Arkansas statute.
The contract of an indorser renders him primarily liable
to the holder. He stands in the attitude of the drawer of a
new bill. This is text-book law.*
The indorser cannot, like a surety, call upon the holder
of the note to proceed and collect it of the maker; for the
indorser, though in the nature of a surety, is answerable
upon an independent contract, and it is his duty to take up
the note when dishonored. Aul accommodation indorser
stands in the relation of a surety towards the party for
whose accommodation the indorsement is made, and may
recover against him the costs to which he has been subjected; but he does not thereby lose the character of an
indorser, as respects the holder of the note.t
Mere indulgence or delay by the holder to sue the maker,
will not discharge the iridorser. There is no obligation to
* 2 Parsons on Bills'and Notes, 25.

t Edwards on Bills and Promissory Notes, p. 292, 293; citing Pain v.
Packard, 13 Johnson, 174; Trimble v. Thorne, 16 Id. 152; Warner v.
Beardsley, 8 Wendell, 194; Bradford v. Corey, 6 Barbour, 461-the indorser
in this case added to his signature the word 11surety."

Oct. 1874._]

Ross v.

JONES.

Opinion of the court.

use the diligence, as is generally the case against a principal,
in order to hold a surety liable, at least where the surety
calls upon the creditor to act.*
If the holder of a promissory note be called upon by'the
indorser, after the note has become due, to prosecute the
maker, of' whom the amount might then be collected, but
who afterwards becomes insolvent, and he neglects so to do,
this will not discharge the indorser.t
The case, therefore, on both points, is one entirely clear.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Two errors are assigned, as follows:
1st. That the court erred in sustaining the demurrer of
the plaintiffs to the rejoinder filed by the defendant to the
plaintiffs' replication to the 'first special plea of the defendant.
2d. That the court erred in sustaining the demurrer of
the plaintiffs to the third plea of the defendant.
I. Unsealed written contracts are barred by the statute of
limitations of that State in five years from maturity, and it
appears that the note described in the declaration matured
on the first of November next after its date, but the record
shows that the indorser deceased on the fifteenth of November,1869, leaving the note unpaid and outstanding. Under
the laws of the State the general statute of limitations runs
from the maturity of the contract to the granting of administration upon the estate of the decedent, when the general
statute ceases to run and the statute of limitations applicable
to the estates of deceased persons begins to run.t
Byles on Bills, margin, p. 193-Sbarswood's notes; Bank v. Myers, 1
Bailey, 412; Powell v. Waters, 17 Johnson, 176; Worsham v. Goar, 4 Porter, 441; Stafford v. Yates, 18 Johnson, 327; Sterling v. Mlarietta Co., 11
Sergeant & Rawle, 179; State Bank v. Wilson, 1 Devereux, 484; Foreman's
Bank v. Rollins, 1 Shepley, 202; Page v. Webster, 3 Id. 244; Pierce V.
"Whitney, 1 Id. 113; Bank of Utica v.Ives, 17 Wendell, 501.
t Byles on Bills, margin, p. 193, top, p. 312, note by Sharswood, citing:
Trimble v.Thorne, 16 Johnson, 152; Beebe v.West Branch Bank, 7 Watts
& Sergeant, 375.
$ Brown v.Merrick, 16 Arkansas, 612; Biscot v.Madden, 17 Id. 533.

Ross V.JONES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

-

Htence the defendant pleaded that the cause of action did
not accrue to the plaintiffs at any time within five years next
before the grant of letters of administration upon the estate
of the deceased indorser.
War, when duly declared or recognized as such by the
war-making power, imports a prohibition to the-subjects or
citizens of all commercial intercourse and all correspbndence
with citizens or persons domiciled in the enemy country.
To.tal inability, therefore, on the part of an enemy creditor
to sustain any contract in the tribunals of the other belligerent, exists by the law of nations during the continuance of
the war, but the restoration of peace removes the disability
and opens the doors of the courts.
Unquestioned right to sue is the status of the creditor if
the contract was made during peace, but the effect of war is
to suspend the right, not only without any fault on the part
of the creditor, but under circumstances which make it his
duty to abstain from any such attempt. His remedy is suspended by the acts of the two governments and by the law
of nations, not applicable to the contract at its date, but
which comes into operation in consequence of an event over
which he has no control.*
Peace, it is said, restores the right and the remedy, but
as that cannot be if the statute of limitations continues to
run during the period the creditor is rendered incapable of
suing, it necessarily follows that the operation of the statute
is also suspended during the same period.
Attempt is made to distinguish the case before the court
from the case in which that rule of decision was first promulgated by this court, but it is clear that the attempt must
be unsuccessful, as the same doctrines have since been
applied in a case where a mortgagee, who was a citizen
and resident of one of the Confederate States, brought a
suit after the close of the war upon a bond and mortgage
executed prior to the war by citizens of one of the loyal
States, and the court held that the period from the proclama* Hanger v. Abbott, 6 Wallace, 539.

Oct. 1874.]

RO SS V.

JONES.

Opinion of the court.

tion of the blockade to the proclamation that the war was
closed, must be deducted in the computation of the time
which the statute of limitations of the loyal State had run
against the right of action.*
Extended discussion of that topic is quite unnecessary, as
the oft-repeated decisions of this court have established the
rule that the statute of limitations was suspended in the rebellious States during the existence of the late rebellion,
and the express decision of this court is that the war was
flagrant in that State for the whole period specified in the
replication filed by the plaintiff,.t
Viewed in the light of that decision it is clear that the
rejoinder filed by the defendant is insufficient and that the
ruling of the Circuit Court adjudging it bad was correct.1
II. Due demand of the maker, protest, and notice to the
indorser of non-payment are admitted, and it-is alleged that
the indorser subsequently, by a certain notice in writing, required the plaintiffs, as holders of the note, to sue the maker
and the indorser at a time when the maker was solvent and
able to pay the same, and that the plaintiffs omitted for
more than thirty days to comply with the terms of the notice, during which time the maker became insolvent.
Based on these facts the second defence set up is that the
indoi'ser was discharged by the neglect of the holders of the
note to comply with the terms of that notice, which must
depend in a great measure upon the nature of the obligation
that the indorser assumed by his contract of indorsement.
If the holder of a negotiable promissory note does anything,
the effect of which is to suspend, impair, or destroy the
right of the prior parties to indemnity from those otherwise
liable over to them, he cannot resort to the parties affected
by his conduct to make good the default of the maker of
the instrument.ยง
* Brown v. Hiatts, 15 Wallace, 177.

- Batesville Institute v. Kauffman, 18 Id. 155.
The Protector, 12 Wallace, 700; Adger v. Alston, 15 Id. 555; Semmes
v. Insurance Company 13 Id. 168; Levy v. Stewart, 11 Id. 253.
Bank v. Hatch, 6 Peters, 258; McLemore v. Powell, 12 Wheaton, 556;
Wood v. Bank, 9 Cowen, 194; Bank v. Hanrick, 2 Story, 416; Newcomb v

-

Ross v. JONES.

[Sup. or,

Opinion of the court.

Simple indulgence, however, or mere delay to enforce
payment, without a binding contract to give time, will not,
under the general rules of commercial law, have that effect,
even in the case of a party occupying strictly the contract
relation of a surety.*
Indorsers, it is sometimes said, are sureties, but their contract, which is a new one as compared with the maker of
the note; differs in some important respects from that of the
surety, who is a joint promisor with the principal, as the
holder of such an instrument is under no obligation to use
diligence to enforce payment against the maker in order to
hold the indorser.t
Even in a case where the holder of a promissory note was,
after the note fell due, called upon by the indorser to prosecute the maker, of whom the amount might then have been
collected, but who afterwards became insolvent, and the
holder neglected to do as requested, still it is held that such
neglect will not discharge the indorser.1
Judicial decisions of high authority deny that the indorser
is to be regarded as a surety after his liability is fixed by
due presentment, demand, and notice of the dishonbr of the
note, and insist that when his liability is fixed by those acts
of the holder, that he, the indorser, becomes a principal
debtor himself, subject only to the condition that the holder
shall do no act to suspend, impair, or destroy his remedy
over against prior parties to whom he has a right to resort
for a remedy; and support to that view is certainly derived
from the conceded fact that the indorser is answerable upon
an independent contract, which makes it his legal duty to
Raynor, 21 Wendell, 108; Byles on Bills (11th ed.), 247 n. 1; 3 Story on
Notes (5th ed.), 413.
415.
* Pbilpot v. Briant, 4 Bingham, 721 ; Story on Notes (5th ed.),
179;
17
Johnson,
v.
Waters,
f Bank v. Myers, 1 Bailey, 418; Powell
Stafford v. Yates, ]8 Id. 329; Bank v. Rollins, 13 Maine, 205; Page v. Webster, 15 Id. 256; Bank v. Ives, 17 Wendell, 502; Sterling v. Marietta and S.
T. Co., 11 Sergeant & Rawile, 182; Kennard v. Knott, 4 Manning & Granger,
474.
1 Trimble v. Thorne, 16 Johnson, 159; Beebe v. Bank, 7 Watts & Sergeant, 375.

Oct. 1874.]

Ross v. JOxES.
Opinion of the court.

pay the note when duly presented and demanded and due
notice is given to him of its dishonor; and also from the
fact, which is also conceded, that he has not the same reason
as may exist in common cases of suretyship to compel the
creditor to active diligence against the maker, as he has in
general the complete power, by paying the note, to reinstate
himself in the possession and ownership of the same, and
thus to entitle himself to a personal remedy against the
maker.*
Doubtless the indorser is in some respects a surety, but his
principal relation to the instrument is that expressed by the
commercial term applied to every party who contracts that
obligation. Such a party to such an instrument contracts
with the indorsee and every subsequent holder to whom the
note is transferred, as follows: (1.) That the instrument and
antecedent signatures are genuine. (2.) That he, the indorser, has a good title to the instrument. (3.) That he is,
competent to bind himself in such a contract. (4.) That
the maker is competent to bind himself to the payment, and
that he will, upon due presentment of the note, pay it at
maturity. (5.) That if, when duly presented, it is not paid
by the maker, he, the indorser, will, upon due and reasonable notice being given him of the dishonor, pay the same
to the indorsee or other holder.t
Confirmation that the indorser is not a surety in the general sense is also derived from the fact that he stands in the
attitude of the drawer of a new bill, and that he is not primarily liable to make the payment, but only in case of the
default of the maker and proof of due presentment, protest,
and notice of dishonor, and that even then he cannot be
joined with the maker, as the surety proper may be, because
the maker and indorser are liable on different contracts.t
M
McLemore v. Powell, 12 Wheaton, 556; 2 Parsons on Notes and Bills,
243-245; 3 Kent (12th ed.), 114*.
,t Story on Notes (5th ed.),
135; Story on Bills, 108; 2 Parsons on
Bills and Notes, 23; Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheaton, 341 ; 3 Kent (12th
ed ), 88; Bateman on Commercial Law, 319.
$ 2 Parsons on Bills and Notes, 25

:Ross V. JONES.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

Suppose that is so, when the theory is tested by the rules
of commercial law, still it is insisted by the defendant that
the contract of the indorser in this case'was made in the
State where he resides, and that the indorser, by the law of
that State, is discharged, for the reason that the holder of
the note omitted to seek his remedy against the maker, as
thereto requested by the indorser.
Support to that defence as exhibited in the second assignment of errors is attempted to be drawn from the statute of
the State where the indorser resides, which provides in effect
that a surety in any bond, bill, or note, may give the bolder
notice to sue the principal in writing, and if the bolder fails
to do so within thirty days the surety shall be discharged.*
Founded on that statute the defendant alleges that the
indorsement was made in that State, and the allegation also
is that the consideration of the note was a debt due from the
maker to the plaintiffs, and that it was made payable to the
decedent and was by him indorsed merely as a means of
procuring his liability for the payment of the said debt due
to the plaintiffs.
Grant that the contract of indorsement was actually executed in that State, still it is the better opinion that the case
is not governed by the statute of that State already referred
to, for the reason that the statute of the State does not include the contract of an indorser.
Sureties in a note who become joint promisors with the
maker, it may be conceded, are within the terms of that
statute, as they stand in the same relation to the principal
as in a bond given for the payment of money or the delivery
of property. Authority to give the described notice arises
immediately after the bond, bill, or note falls due, which
evidently refers to the lapse of time specified in the contract; but the absolute obligation to pay does not arise in
the case of an indorser before- notice of dishonor, which
can never be given to the indorser till after the note is presented to the maker, and he has refused or neglected to
* Gould's Digest of Statutes, 1015.

Oct. 1874.]

:ROSS V. JONES.

-

Opinion of the court.

fulfil his promise to pay, so that the notice in writing requiring the holder to sue the indorser with the maker, would
seem to be inapplicable before the liability of the indorser
is fixed by demand of payment of the maker and his refusal
to comply, and notice is given to the indorser of the dishonor of the note.
Evidently the statute contemplates that the cause of action
will accrue against the principal and surety at the same
time, which is never the case with the indorser and maker.
Such a notice may unquestionably be given by a surety
proper, whether his contract is expressed in a bond, bill, or
note, as soon as the instrument falls due; but it would be
unreasonable to suppose that an indorser would give such a
notice before his liability had become fixed, a5 it may be
that such a demand to sue would operate as waiver of the
right to notice of the dishonor of the note. Nor is it necessary to extend the operation of the statute so as to include
an indorser, in order to satisfy the literal scope of the language employed. "Persons, bound as security for another,"
are the words of the statute, which undoubtedly includes
sureties proper in a bond, bill, or note, but it would be extending the words of the statute beyond their reasonable
meaning, to hold that it includes an indorser whose liability
is fixed by the required notice of the dishonor of the bill

or note.
Beyond all doubt the statute is one passed in derogation
of the common law, even if restricted to sureties in the
general sense, but it would be even more so, if by a broad
construction, it could be extended to include indorserfs upon
bills of exchange and negotiable promissory notes.
Statutes passed in derogation of the common law, it is
everywhere held, should be construed strictly, nor is there
any subject-matter to which that rule should be applied with
greater intensity than where the attempt is made to change
by local legislation the rules of commercial law, applicable
to that class of commercial instruments. Remedies of a
statutory character, where the right to be ehiforced was unknown at the common law, are to be followed with strict-

. Ross v.

JONES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ness, both as to the methods to be pursued and the cases to
which they are to be applied.*
When a statute alters the common law the meaning shall
not be strained beyond the meaning of the words, except in
cases of public utility, as when the end in view appears to
be more comprehensive than.the enacting words.t
Where the expression is in general terms, statutes are to
receive such a construction as may be agreeable to the rules
of the common law in cases of that nature, for statutes are
not presumed to make any alteration in the common law,
beyond what is expressed in the statute.1
Argument to show that the statute in question, if it be
construed to include the indorser of a bill or note, is in derogation of the rule of the commercial law, is scarcely necessary, as it appears to be well settled that it is no part of the
duty of the holder of a note which has been dishonored and
due notice thereof given to the indorser, to sue the maker
merely because the indorser requests him so to do. On the
contrary the holder has his choice to sue any one of the
parties to the note who is in default, and it is the duty of
the indorser, if he desires to secure the amount against the
maker, to pay the note himself and thus to entitle himself
to bring a suit against that party.ยง
Such a holder, says J.udge Story, is perfectly at liberty to
sue any or all the parties at his pleasure, and he is not bound
to any diligence in seeking his reimbursement. Nor can
the indorser insist that the holder should, upon his request,
use any such diligence. His remedy is to pay the note and
then to seek recourse against the maker or any other party
liable over to him.1I
Such an indorser, that is, one whose liability is fixed by
due notice of the maker's default, is not entitled to the aid
* Lease v. Vance, 28 Iowa, 509.

t Potter's Dwarris on Statutes, 186.
$ 9 Bacon's Abridgment, by Bouvier, 245; Sedgwick on Statutes, 2d ed
267; 1 Kent, 12th ed. 464; Broom's Legal Maxims, 4th ed. 562.
Story on Notes, 5th ed. 115, a.
1b. 419; Beebe v. Banks, 7 Watts & Sergeant, 875.

Oct. 1874.]

R-OSS V. JONES.
Opinion of the court.

of a court of equity as a surety, as lie has the right to pay
the amount of the note to the holder, and to be subrogated
to all his rights as against the maker.*
INoue of these suggestions are intended to deny the wellknown rule that the maker of the note is in general the
principal debtor, nor that all the other parties are in a special sense sureties for him; they, if indorsers, being liable
only in case of his default, unless they have waived demand
and notice. Though all the other parties are sureties in
respect to the maker, still they are not co-sureties, but each
prior party is a principal in respect to each subsequent party.
An indorser of a promissory note, though in the nature
of a surety, is not for all purposes entitled to the privileges
of that character, as he is answerable upon an independent
'contract, and it is his duty to take up the note when it is
dishonored.t
Unquestionably there is in some respects a resemblance
between the indorser and a surety, but in others there is
none, as he does not in any case lose his character of indorser nor can he be made liable on the note without proof
of due demand and notice.t
Proof of the kind, if the demand and notice are season
able and in due form, removes every condition from hisliability except that the" holder will do no act to suspend,
impair, or destroy his right to indemnity from such other
parties to the instrument as are bound to save him harmless.ยง
Negotiable promissory notes, like bills of exchange, are
commercial paper in the strictest sense, and as such must
ever be regarded as favored instruments, as well on account
of their negotiable quality as for their universal convenience
in mercantile transactions. Henc6 the law encourages their
Lenox v. Prout, 3 Wheaton, 525; Trimble v Thorne, 16 Johnson, 153;
Warner v Beardsley, 8 Wendell, 199; Same v Same, 6 Id. 610; Frye v.
Barker, 4 Pickering, 382; Hunt v. Bridgham, 2 Id. 581.
t Ellsworth v. Brewer, 11 Pickering, 320.
$ Bradford v. Corey, 5 Barbour, 462.
4 Woodman v. Eastman, 10 New Hampshire, 359; Warnerv. Beardsley,
8 Wendell, 2d ed., 195 and note.
38
VOL. xxir.

594

RAILROAD COMPANY v. ANDROSCOGaIN MILLS. [Sup. Ct.
Syllabus.

use as a safe and convenient medium for the settlement of
balances among mercantile men, and any course of judicial
decision calculated to restrain or impede their unembarrassed circulation would be contrary to the soundest principles of public policy.
Mercantile law is a system of jurisprudence recognized
by all commercial nations, and upon no subject is it of more
importance that there should be, as far as practicable, uniformity of decision throughout the world.*
Apply these several suggestions to the case and it follows
that the statute, when properly construed, does not include
the indorser of a negotiable promissory note whose liability
has become absolute by due notice of the dishonor of the
note.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED

RAILROAD COMPANY v. ANDROSCOGGIN MILLS.
The Evansville and Crawfordsville Railroad Company, of Indiana, owning
a railroad running from the south line of that State northward to another point in it, and which made a line of road by which cotton was
brought from Columbus, Mississippi, to Boston, Massachusetts, established, apparently with the view of procuring.freights over its road, an
agency in the former place; and there, as it seemed, was in the habit
of contracting for the transportation of cotton from Columbus to Boston,
its own road providing one link of the chain for transportation.
Planters in Columbus shipped from that place to manufacturers in Boston
a quantity of cotton. The bill of lading, dated at Columbus,' Mississippi,
and signed by the agent, at Columbus, of the railroad company, had in
display letters at its top"REVANSVILLE AND CRAWFORDSVILLE RAILROAD COIPANY.
"Great throz
.gl
fast freight route to all points north and east, via Pennsylvania Central, Erie, and New York Central Railroads. Contract for through
rate. This reliable through line makes the shipment of cotton a specialty, and
guarantees quick time and delivery in good order."
The bill, after stating the destination of the c(tton to be Boston, Kassachusetts, went on to say:
"The Evansville and Crawfordsville Railroad Company hereby agree that
* Goodman v. Simouds. 20 Howard, 364.

