PUTNAM v. DAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

not. Such a decision by a State court does not present a
question of which this court can take jurisdiction upon a
writ of error.
WRIT DISMISSED.

PUTNAM v. DAY.
1. On a bill of review in equity nothing can be examined but the pleadings,
proceedings and decree, which, in this cpuntry, constitute what is called
the record in the cause. The proofs cannot be looked into as they can
on an appeal.
2. On such a bill filed by a defendant to set aside the decree, he is bound by
the answer filed on his behalf by his solicitor, though he did not himself read it, unless he can show mistake or fraud in filing it. The answers of other defendants cannot be read in his favor.
3. 'Where the defendant, by his answer, admits the claim to be due, and
prays contribution from other defendants, without setting up any defence to the demand, he cannot, after a decree, and on a bill of review,
ask to have the decree set aside on the ground of ]aches on the part of
the complainant in bringing suit.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Indiana;
the case being thus:
InJanuary, 1868, Putnam and others, having obtained, in
the Floyd County Circuit Court of the State of Indiana, a
judgment against the New Albany and Sandusky City Junction Railroad Company, filed in the court below, the Circuit
Court of the United lates for the Districtof Indiana, a creditor's
bill against the city of New Albany, Indiada, one Day, and
several other defendants, for the purpose of compelling
them as stockholders of the said railroad company, to pay
certain amounts alleged in the bill to be due and unpaid by
them on their stock subscriptions to the said company, so
that the amount of the judgment due to the complainants
might be paid and satisfied; it being alleged in the bill that
the said company was insolvent, and that all its property had
been exhausted in satisfying other claims.
The'city of New Albany, in its answer, set up a defence
peculiar to itself, to wit, a complete settlement and com-

Oct. 1874.]

PUTNAM v. DAY.
Statement of the case.

promise with the railroad company in 1857, by which the
bonds issued by the city in payment of its stock subscription
were surrendered, upbn its assuming and paying a large
amount of debts due by the company; and the city insisted
that this settlement was made in good faith, and was for the
benefit of the railroad company and its creditors; and that
the complainants had lain by and slept on their rights too
long to be permitted to disturb what was alleged to be a
most proper and just arrangement.
The other defendants, with the exception of Day, set up
that they were not indebted on their subscriptions, for that
their stock had been taken off their bands by the city of
New Albany, under a provision in the original subscription,
which, if the city did take their stock, relieved them.
Day did not join these other defendants in the defence set
up by them, but filed a separate answer, and a cross-bill, in
which he admitted that he bad subscribed stock in the railroad company to the amount of $36,100, and that $3500
thereof remained unpaid. He then stated that the other de.fendants, including the city of New Albany, were subscribers
to a large amount, which he set forth in a list; and he
asserted that they had not paid as much in proportion on
their subscriptions as he had paid on his; and prayed that
they might be compelled to contribute until they had paid
in equal proportion to himself; in which case, he alleged,
there would be money due to him instead of money due
from him. His cross-bill being demurred to, was dismissed.
A decree in the case was rendered in July, 1869, adjudging that there was due to the complainants on their judgment against the railroad company upwards of $70,000; and
that there was due on the stock subscriptions of said company, from the city of New Albany, upwards of $100,000 ;*
from Day, $3500; from another defendant, $3026; which
sums were directed to be paid and applied pro rata in satisfaction of the judgment. The decree against Day was made
* On appeal to this court, by the city of New Albany, this part of the
decree was reversed and the cause remanded, with directions to dismiss the
bill as to the city. New Albany v. Burke, 11 Wallace 96.

PUTNAM

v. DAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

on the admissions of his answer, charging him with the
$3500 admitted to be unpaid, with interest thereon. The
bill was dismissed as to the rest of the defendants, it being
found that the defence set up by them was true, and that
they were not indebted on their subscriptions, as most of
their stock had been taken off of their hands by the city of
New Albany under provision for that purpose contained in
the original subscription.*
In January, 1870, Day filed in the court below a bill of
review (the present bill) to have this decree set aside as to
him. In this bill, which was a bill partly original and partly
in review, he stated briefly the proceedings in the former
suit; admitted the filing of the answer and cross-bill before
referred to, but alleged that it was filed by his attorney, and
was never seen or read or sworn to by himself; and that it
did not set up truly the facts or the true grounds of his defence. He further stated that the truth was, that his stock
was taken by the city of New Albany in the same manner
as that of the other defendants as to whom the bill had been
dismissed, except certain shares which he subscribed, payable in lands; and that he was not indebted to the railroad
company for any unpaid portion of stock subscribed by him.
He also insisted as a ground of review that the decree in the
former suit was erroneous, and should be set aside for three
reasons specified in the bill of review:
._irst.That the Floyd County Circuit Court, in which the
judgment had been rendered, had exclusive jurisdiction of
the matter.
Secondly. That the original bill did not set out sufficient
facts to show a debt on his part.
Thirdly. That the complainants were guilty of gross laches
and negligence in seeking equitable relief, having lain by
and slept on their right to equitable relief (if they had any)
for more than nine years.
Putnam and the others (complainants in the original bill)
answered this bill of review, insisting upon the regularity
* See Burke v. Smith, 16 Wallace, 390.

a

Oct. 1874.]

PUTNAM v. DAY.
Statement of the case.

and conclusiveness of the proceedings, and denying that Day
had any defence to the original suit, or that he ever assigned
his stock to the city of New Albany.
To this answer a general replication was put in.
Day was himself examined as a witness, and testified to
the transfer of his stock to the city, except as stated in his
bill, and to the payment of all dues thereon. He also testified as to his employment of an attorney to represent him
in the original suit, and to the manner in which his answer
and cross-bill were filed. His testimony on this point was
to the effect that when the suit was instituted, he employed
James Collins and his own nephew, Addison Day (who were
partners in the practice of the law), to represent him as his
counsel; and that they advised him "to file under the bill"
and ask for equitable relief, and claim a pro rata contribution among the stockholders; that he did not see the answer
and cross-bill which they prepared, and had no knowledge of
the allegations contained in them; that he was informed that
the court had acted on his answer and cross-bill, and that
he was out of court; that he relied principally on Collins,
as Day was young and inexperienced; but that he never
consulted Collins but once, though he saw him a second
time; that he had no business in the case that needed any
further-explanation at the time; that Collins was sick much
of the time and died in May, 1869, during the pendency of
the suit; that he saw his attorney, Day, occasionally after
the suit was brought, and consulted with him, and paid his
expenses to Indianapolis when he went there to file the answer and cross-bill. This was all the material evidence in
the case.
The Circuit Court set aside the decree against Day. It
said, in its opinion"When this court can see by the answer of the association
subscribers, and the evidence in the original case, that there was
no just claim on the part of the railroad company against the
Days; that they had been released from such claim, if any existed, years before the creditor's bill was filed, and even before
the judgment was recovered on which it was founded, and that

P UTNAM

vO.DAY.

[Sup. Ot

Opinion of the court.

the court dismissed the bill as to persons equally liable with
them, does the rule which has been pressed on the court by
counsel,-that the proofs cannot be examined on a bill of review,--apply? We think not."
The case was now before this court on an appeal from this
decision.
Messrs. S. Burke and . A. Ga2field, for the appellants, -PutM. C. Kerr, contra.
nam el al.; .Mr.
Mr. Justice :BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The complainant in the bill filed below failed utterly, we
think, to make out a case of fraud, mistake, or want of authority on the part of his solicitors and counsel in filing the
pleadings in the original suit, and taking the ground they
did on his behalf. Of course fraud is not charged; but the
complainant relied on the fact that he never saw the answer
or cross-bill, and did not know their contents. This is no
ground for allowing him to repudiate them now. It is not
alleged that he would have placed his defence on any different ground had the answer and cross-bill been read by
him. Indeed, they were drawn in pursuance of the advice
received from his counsel and acquiesced in by him. IHis
not having sworn to his answer, or even read it, is no excuse. It was his duty to have known its contents, if not to
have verified it. If his counsel failed to make as good a
defence, for him as they might have done, it was his misfortune and cannot be rectified after the passing of the decree.
Litigation would never come to an end if parties were permitted thus to shift their entire ground of attack or defence,
after finding where the pinch of the cause lay. They must
be estopped by the record, unless they can show that they
were the victims of fraud or mistake.
Taking the cause, then, as it stood when the original decree was rendered, does the bill of review show any error for
which it can be reversed?
It is to be remembered, that on a bill of review the proofs

Oct. 1874.]

PUTNAM 'v. DAY.
Opinion of the court.

cannot be considered.- If the decree is contrary to these,
remedy must be sought by appeal.t We are confined, then,
to all examination of the pleadings, proceedings, and decree,
and the pleading of Day himself is to have controlling effect
so far as it contains admissions against his own interest, it
is apparent that the decree of the Circuit Court on the bill
of review was based on the answers and evidence adduced
by the other defendants, which tended to show that the appellee's case was similar to theirs. Day's own answer in
the case was entirely disregarded. But is it possible to
ignore it? Day was not necessarily in the same category
with the other defendants. All had an equal opportunity
to surrender' their subscriptions to the city, and it was
claimed by the other defendants in their answers, and admitted and shown, by a stipulation filed in the cause, that
they did surrender their subscriptions to the city, and that
the city assumed them. But they do not state, and it would
not be evidence for Day, if they did, that Day surrendered
his subscription. On the contrary, in his own answer, which
is evidence against him, he clearly admits that he was a
large subscriber to the stock, and that there was due on his
subscription the amount for which the decree was rendered
against him. There is nothing in the bill, nor in the report
of the master, nor in any other part of the record, unless it
be the answers of the other defendants, inconsistent with
this admission of Day himself. On the contrary, the charges
of the bill and the report of the master are in entire conformity with it. As the record stands, no other decree
could have been made than that which was made, unless the
other errors assigned have some ground to stand on.
Those errors are not relied on by the court below. As to
the first, namely, that the Floyd County Circuit Court had
exclusive jurisdiction of the case, it is hardly necessary to
remark upon it. Surely, a creditor's bill may be filed in a
different court from that in which the creditor obtains his
judgment; for, otherwise, none could have been filed when
2 Daniel's Chancery Practice, 1631, 3d ed.
- Story's Equity Pleading, 407.
VOL. xxII.

5

PUT-NAM

v. DAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

courts of law and equity were separate courts, as they still
are in some of the States.
The second was clearly groundless. The bill stated the
ground of the claim against Day, and the answer admitted
it, and supplied the particulars if they were not sufficiently
specified in the bill.
The third error assigned was that the complainants had
been guilty of gross laches and negligence in preferring
their claim, having waited nine years after the return of
their execution unsatisfied before filing their bill. This
might have been a proper defence to make to the original
bill; but it was not the defence which the appellee made.
He did not put himself on that ground. He admitted his
liability and prayed that the other defendants might contribute their just share, which he insisted would relieve him.
How could the court under such a defence as this have dismissed the bill for laches and delay?. A decree has to be
founded on the allegata as well as probala of the case.
There is nothing in the allegata, which alone are before us,
to justify a different decree from that which was made.
The court below evidently relied on its knowledge and
estimation of the proofs in the cause. The learned judge
in his opinion, in summing up his views of the case, says
so, in so many words.*
In the views there expressed, we think the court erred.
We think the rule to be well established, and a wholesome
one, that (as before stated) the proofs cannot be looked into
on abill of review. This was so expressly held in Whiting
v. Bank of the United States.t It is true that in our practice
the final decree does not contain a summary of the facts as
it did in the English practice-which summary was examinable on a bill or review; but to countervail this absence of
statement in the decree, we have adopted the practice of
looking back of the decree into the whole record of the
pleadings and proceedings, including orders, master's re,port, &c., together constituting what is generally regarded
*See

sutra . pp. 62-63 -REP.

t- 13 Peters, 6.

Oct. 1874.]

IITCHIE

V. FRANKLIN

COUNTY.

67

Syllabus.

as the record in the cause, and necessary to be examined in
order to a proper understanding of the decree itself. This
makes a record similar to that of a common-law action, the
decree being the judgment of the law upon the allegations
of the parties, and the conclusion which the court deduces
from the proofs. But the conclusions of fact deduced from
the proofs are not spread upon the record in exienso, unless
through the medium of a report made by a master or commissioner.
The eighty-sixth rule in equity, adopted by this court, has
abolished the recital of the pleadings and proceedings in the
decree, and has prescribed the form in which it shall be
couched, as follows: "This cause came on to be heard at
this term, and was argued by counsel; and thereupon, in
consideration thereof, it was ordered, adjudged, and decreed,
as follows, viz.:" here inserting the decree or order. The
decree, it is true, may proceed to state conclusions of fact as
well as 6f law, and often does so for the purpose of rendering the judgment of the court more clear and specific.
The record thus made up constitutes the basis of examination on a bill of review, but it never contains the proofs
adduced in the cause.
An examination of the record in this case does not, in
our judgment, aTord any ground for setting aside the decree made against Day in the original cause.
DECREE REVERSED,

with directions to
DISMISS THE BILL.

The CHIEF JUSTICE did not sit.
dissented.

Mr. Justice DAVIS

IRITCHIE v. FRANKLIN COUNTY.
1. Where a constitution of a State forbids special legislation, an act, demanded by considerations of high justice and by the fact that carelessness in the language of previous statutes has worked the necessity for
the act, may be presumed to have been meant as a curative act, and as

