Oct. 1874.]

MAXWELL V.

STEWART.

Statement of the case.

under the order of the County Court of Franklin County,
made in pursuanc6 of the authority conferred on the court
by the act of Assembly in question, and as the defendants
claim to be innocent holders, and this is true for the purpose
of the exception, the complainant has no standing in a court

of equity.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

MAXWELL V.

STEWART.

1. To make a record of a judgment valid upon its face, it is only necessary
for it to appear that the court had jurisdiction of the subject-matter of
the action and of the parties, and that a judgment had in fact been rendered.
2. A trial by the court without the waiver of a jury is at most only error.
A judgment after such a trial is not necessarily void. Mere errors cannot be set up as a defence to an action brought upon it.
3. When the record of a case, a judgmeht in which is sued upon, shows
that an attachment was issued in it and laid on property appraised at a
less sum than the judgment was given for, a demurrer which makes, in
virtue of the attachment, a defence of payment and satisfaction, is not
good.
4. A seizure of personal property even to the full value of the sum claimed,
under an order of attachment issued during the pendency of an action,
is not necessarily a satisfaction of the judgment when afterwards obtained. The defendant must show affirmatively that it was applied to
and satisfied the judgment.
5. A court will acquire jurisdiction of the person in a suit originally commenced by an attachment in rem, if the party against whom the claim
is set up voluntarily appears and submits himself to the jurisdiction,
demurs, pleads, and goes to trial on issues made.
6. Fraud cannot be pleaded to an action in one State upon a judgment in
another.
7. .Nit debet is not a good plea to an action upon a judgment in another
State.

E ROR to the Supreme Court of New Mexico; the case
being thus:
Stewart sued Maxwell in one of the courts of the State of
Kansas, claiming $7000; and publication having been prop-

MAXWELL V.

STEWART.

[Shp. Or.

Statement of the case.

erly made, laid an attachment on certain personal property
of the defendant of which the sheriff t6ok possession, and
which was appraised at $6825. What was finally done with
the property did not exactly and by direct evidence appear.
No redelivery bond, it seemed, was now existent. After
the attachment had been made Maxwell voluntarily appeared and submitted himself to the jurisdiction of the Kansas court, in the case wherein the attachment issued. He
filed, first, a demurrer, afterwards an answer, and finally
went to trial on issues which the pleadings raised. Judgment was given against him for $7050 by the court, no jury,
apparently, having been bad in the case. He moved for a
new trial, but did not get one. After the entry of judgment
he got a rule on the sureties "in the redelivery bond," for
the redelivery of the property attached; but as already observed, apparently no redelivery bond itself was now existeut as part of the record of the suit.
In this state of facts, Stewart now sued Maxwell in a
court of New Mexico on the judgment thus obtained iu
Kansas, setting forth in his declaration the record of the
court there which disclosed the ficts above mentioned, but
not a great many more.
Judgment having been given for the plaintiff in the court
of New Mexico, in which the suit was brought, and this
being affirmed in the Supreme Court of the Territory, the
defendant brought the case here, assigning these errors:
1. That the record sued upon was not full and complete,
because it did not contain copies of certain papers-a summons which it appeared had issued, or affidavits of publication which had been made, &c.-which papers had been
filed in the progress of the cause.
2. That it also showed that the judgment was rendered
upon a trial of the cause by the court without the waiver of
a jury.
8. That the judgment was satisfied in law because, as
shown by the record, certain personal property of the defendant, worth $6825, was seized and taken into the possession
of the sheriff under an order of attachment issued at the

Oct. 1874.]

MAXWELL V. STEWART.

Opinion of the court.

time of the commencement of the action, and because this
property had not been legally accounted for.
[This objection was first made by a demurrer to the petition which set forth the record in full, and afterwards by
plea.]
4. That the court in Kansas did not have such jurisdiction of the defendant as was necessary in order to bind him
by its judgment.
5. That the judgment sued upon was obtained by a false
and fraudulent assertion of a contract, and by means of
false and interested testimony; and6. That a demurrer had been sustained to the plea of nil
debet, filed in the court below (the court of N~ew Mexico), in
the present suit.
Mr. J. S. Walls, for the plainitff in error; Mr. P. Phillips,
contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
We will consider the errors assigned in the order in which
they come before us:
1. 'The form of the record of a judgment is regulated by
the practice of the court in which the action is prosecuted.
To make such a record valid upon its face, it is only necessary for it to appear that the court had jurisdiction of the
subject-matter of the action and of the parties, and that a
judgment had in fact been rendered. All else is form only.
The record sued upon in this case did show the existence of
these essential iaets.
2. A trial by the court without the waiver of a jury is at
most only error. A judgment after such a trial is not necessarily void. Mere errors cannot be set up as a defence to
an action brought upon it.
3. So far as the defence of payment and satisfaction was
made by demurrer to the petition, it is enough to say that
it did not anywhere appear in the pleadings, by averment
or otherwise, that the value of the property taken under the
attachment was sufficient to discharge the entire judgment.

MAXWELL

V. STEWART.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

On the contrary its appraised value was less than the amount
of the judgment. If upon the case made by the pleadings
the plaintiff could recover anything, the demurrer was not
well taken. Issue was joined upon the plea presenting the
same defence, and upon the trial of that issue it may have
been shown that the property had been legally accounted
for. In fact, it can be fairly inferred from the record itself,
that the property had been restored before judgment to the
possession of the defendant, upon the execution of a redelivery bond: It appears affirmatively that after judgment a
rule was granted and served upon the sureties on such a
bond.
But even if this were not so, it does not follow that the
defence insisted upon was good. A seizure of personal
property under an order of attachment issucd during the
pendency of an action is not necessarily a satisfition of the
judgment when afterwards obtained. Such a seizure is
made for the purposes of security and, if the property is retained in the possession of the sheriff, lie will be held responsible for the exercise of ordinary care for its preservation.
If wasted, lost, or destroyed by his negligence he must
account, and the amount for which he is liable on such
account will, when ascertained, be applied toward the satisfaction of any judgment that may have been obtained. To
that extent the plaiftiff is made responsible for the sheriff,
but such an tipplication can only be made upon a proper
showing by the defendant. There is no presumption which
throws the burden of proof upon the plaintiff -No such
showing was made or attempted in this case.
4. The record shows that the action was commenced by
attachment and service had by publication. So thr the action
was in the nature.of a p'oceeding in rem, and would bind
only the property attached. But afterwards, as the record
also shows, the defendant voluntarily appeared and submitted himself to the jurisdiction of the court. He at first
filed a demurrer, then an answer, and finally went to trial
upon the issues made by the pleadings. After judgment
he moved for a new trial which was overruled. If these

Oct. 1874.]

HAYCRAFT V. UNITED STATES.

81

Statement of the case.

statements appearing in the record are true, the court did
have jurisdiction of the person of the defendant, and could
bind him by a judgment. No evidence was introduced to
contradict the record. Its truth is, therefore, presumed.
5. In Christmasv. Russell,* this court held that fraud could
not be pleaded to an action in one State upon a judgment
in another. With this we are satisfied.
Since the case of Mills v. Duryea,t it has been settled in
this court that nil debet is not a good plea to an action upon
a judgment in another State. .
AFFIRMED.

HAYCRAFT V. UNITED STATES.
Under the act of March 12th, 1863, relating to captured and abandoned
property, and which enacted that any person claiming to be the owner
of such property may, 11at any time within two years after the suppression of the rebellion, prefer his claim to the proceeds thereof in the
Court of Claims, and, on proof . . . that he has never given any aid
or comfort to the present rebellion," receive the proceeds of the sale of
such property, a person who did give aid and comfort to the rebellion,
and who has not been pardoned until after two years from the suppression of the rebellion cannot, on then preferring his petition, obtain the
benefit of the act, even though in cases generally the limitation of actions in the said court is one of six years. The question is not one of
limitation but ofjurisdiction. And the inability of an unpardoned rebel
to sue in the Court of Claims does not control the operation of the statute.

from the Court of Claims; the case being thus:
By an act of March 3d, 1863,1 relating to the Court of
Claims, it was enacted thatAPPEALS

"The said court shall have and determine all claims founded
upon . . . any contract, express or implied, with the government
of the United States."
5 Wallace, 304.
t 7 Cranch, 481.
: Act reorganizing the Court of Claims, 12 Stat. at Large, 767; and see
the act of February 24th, 1855, 10th id. 612, organizing the said court.
VOL. XXI.

6

