Oct. 1874.]

WooDsoN v. MURDOCK.

351

Statement of the case.

WoODSON V. MURDOCK ET AL.
1. The provision of the constitution of Missouri, which ordains"The General Assembly shall have no power, for any purpose whatever, to
release the lien bold by the State upon any railroad-"
a provision having reference to the statutory liens held by the State on
different railroads for the credit of the State, lent to them by the issue
of State bonds, the principal and interest of which the railroad companies were to pay-was not meant, in case of a failure by the railroad
companies, to prevent the State from making a compromise with any
railroad company of any debt due to it or to become due; and on the
compromise being effected to release the lien.
2. This view of the meaning of the clause is not altered by reading it in the
light of the constitutional ordinance, "1for the payment of State and
railroad indebtedness," adopted at the same time as the State constitution, and as part of it, which ordinance, after providing for a sale by
the State of any railroad indebted to it, and for the possible case of a
purchase by the .State of the road, provides further for a sale of the road
after the State has so become owner, ordaining in such case"That no sale . . . shall be made without reserving a lien upon the prop.
erty and franchises thus sold . . .for all sums remaining due."I
This expression is to be regarded-not as having reference to what the
railroad company originally owed the State, that is to say, reference to
the debt for which the road was first sold,-but to any portion of the
purchase-money which may remain unpaid upon a second sale; a sale
by the State, after she has become owner.
3. The provision in the same constitution"That no law enacted by the General Assembly shall relate to more thian
one subject, and that shall be expressed in its title-"
is not violated by any act having various details, provided they all relate
to one general subject.
Hence where an act was entitled "An act for the sale of the Pacific Railroad, and to foreclose the State's lien thereon, and to amend its charter," held, that after certain sections providing for the sale, a section
providing that in certain contingencies no sale should be made, was not
a violation of the constitutional provision.

from the Circuit Court for the Western District
of Missouri.
Murdock and others filed a bill in the court below for
an injunction to restrain Woodson, governor of Missouri,
from advertising for sale, or selling, the Pacific Railroad,
APPEAL

'WOODSON

V.

MURDOCK.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

under an alleged existing statutory lien in favor of the State
of Missouri. The complainants were trustees for the bond-holders upon a mortgage upon the road for $7,000,000, subsequent to the said lien, and dated July 15th, 1868.
The case was thus:
In 1851, and at various times between that year and 1855,
the legislature of Missouri passed acts lending its credit to
the Pacific Railroad, a railroad whose line extends from St.
Louis to Kansas City. By the same act it lent its credit
also to two other roads. The object of the legislation was
to secure the completion of the roads. The form in which
the aid was extended was this: The State made its bonds,
some at twenty years and others at thirty years, promising
to pay the amount thereof to the company or its order.
Coupons were attached; and by act of the' legislature, the
faith and credit of the State were pledged for the payment
of the interest and the redemption of the principal of the
bonds.
The company was, by the act, to make provision for the
punctual payment of the interest and principal of the bonds
so issued by the State, so as to exonerate the State from advances for that purpose. To secure this undertaking on the
part of the company, the act provided that the net tolls and
income of the road should be pledged for the payment of
interest, and that the acceptance of the bonds, by the company, "should become and be, to all intents and purposes,
a mortgage of the road of the company, and every part and
section thereof and its appurtenances, to the people of the
State, for securing the payment of the principal and interest of the sums of money for which such bonds shall, from
time to time, be issued and accepted as aforesaid."
This was to be the first lien or mortgage upon the road;
and it was further provided by the act that if the company
should make default in the payment of either principal or
interest, no more bonds should be issued to it, and it should
be lawful for the governor to sell the road and its appurtenances, at auction, to the highest bidder, on six months'
notice; or to buy in the same at such sale for the State,

Oct. 1874.1

ODSON V. MURDOCK.
Statement of the case.

subject to such disposition of the road or its proceeds as the
legislature might thereafter direct.
Under these provisions as to security the State issued its
bonds for the beneft of the Pacific Railroad, to the extent
of $7,000,000 or upwards.
The company paid the interest on the bonds up to 1st
July, 1859, but since that date had fitiled to do so.
In 18641, the road not being completed, the legislature of
Missouri authorized the company to borrow $1,500,000, payable in four, five, and six years, and to secure it by a first
lien on the road west of a place called Dresden, the State
waiving, for this purpose and to this extent, its priority of
lien. The bonds given as evidence of this debt were called
"Dresden bonds."
In 1865-the rebellion being now just closed, and the
State, which had been the theatre of contending parties
among its own citizens, being left in an exhausted and impoverished way, with its railroads in many cases more or
less torn up or greatly injured, and the companies to which
they belonged in default for what they owed the State-the
State adopted a new constitution and a constitutional ordinance; the latter being entitled "For the payment of State
and railroad indebtedness."
This constitutional ordinance was adopted in pursuance
of a vote taken under a statute, which enacted:
"The election shall be by ballot. Those ballots in favor of
this ordinance shall have written or prihted thereon the words,
'Shall the railroadspay their bonds ? Yes.' Those opposed to
this ordinance shall have written or printed thereon the words,
'Shall the railroadspay their bonds? Al'o.'"
The new constitution thus ordained :
"No law enacted by the General Assembly shall relate to
more than one subject, and that shall be expressed in the title;
but if any subject embraced in an act be not expressed in the
title, such act shall be void only as to so much thereof as is not so
expressed.
VOL. XXII.

23

WOODSON V.

MURDOCK.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

"The General Assembly shall have no power, for any purpose whatever, to release the lien held by the State upon any
railroad."
The constitutional ordinance provided for the levy of a
heavy annual tax-10 per cent. on gross receipts from October, 1864, to October, 1868, and 15 per cent. thereafterupon the Pacific Railroad and other roads, to be "appropriated to the payment of principal and interest now due, or
hereafter to become due upon the bonds of the State, or the
bonds guaranteed by the State issued to the aforesaid railroad companies."
By the fourth section of the ordinance it was provided
that,
"Should either of said companies refuse or neglect to pay
said tax as herein required, and the interest or principal of any of
said bonds, or any part thereof remain due and unpaid, the General
Assembly shall provide by law for the sale of the railroad and
other property, and the franchises of the company that shall be
thus in default, under the lien reserved to the State, and shall
appropriate the proceeds of such sale to the payment of the
amount remaining due and unpaid from said company."
And the fifth section of this ordinance provided that,
"Whenever the State shall become the purchaser of any railroad,or
other property, sold as hereinbefore provided for, the General Assembly shall provide by law in what manner the same shall be sold
for the payment of the indebtedness of the railroad company in
default; but no railroad or other property or franchises purchased by the State shall be restored to any such company until
it shall first have paid in money or Missouri State bonds, or in
bonds guaranteed by the State, all interest due from said company.
And all interest thereafter accruing shall be paid semi-annually
in advance, and no sale or other disposition of any such railroad
'or other property, or their franchises, shall be made without
.reserving a lien upon all the property and franchises thus sold
-or-disposed of, for all sums remaining unpaid; and all payments
-therefor shall be made in money or in bonds or other obligations
of the State."
In 1866 the road was finished and put in running order

Oct. 1874.]

WooDsoN V.

MURDOCK.

Statement of the case.

to the west line of the State; but in order to effect this the
company had in 1865 received aid from St. Louis County, to
the amount of $700,000. On the 31st day of March, 1868,
the road was in a bad condition as to repairs and equipments, and the company owesi a floating debt of $1,092,848,
an unadjusted debt of about $200,000, and the first instalment of the Dresden bonds, amounting to $500,000. Of its
stock $3,614,500 was held by citizens and municipalities of
Missouri-over $2,000,000 by St. Louis City and County, Or
taxpayers therein.
In this condition of the company as respects its road and
its debt to the State and to others, and with the abovequoted provisions of the constitution and constitutional ordinance in force, the legislature, on the 31st of March, 1868,
passed an act, entitled "An act for the sale of the Pacific
Railroad, and to foreclose the State's lien thereon, and to
amend the charter thereof."
By section one the governor was directed to sell the road
and its appurtenances and all the property belonging thereto,
in accordance with the provisions of section five of an act
entitled "An act to expedite the construction of the Pacific
Railroad," &c., approved February 22d, 1851.
The act then proceeded :
"SECTION 2. Upon a sale of the road, as provided in the foregoing section, the price and sum for which the same shall be
sold shall not be less than $8,350,000, payable to the State treasurer, in the bonds of this State, or in money, within ninety
days from the date of sale. No bid, except the bid of the governor on behalf of the State, shall be accepted, unless there is
paid to the State treasurer, who shall attend the sale, an amount
of not less than $300.000, in such bonds or money, as a part of
the purchase-money, to be paid when the road is stricken off;
and such bonds or money shall be forfeited to the State in case
the purchaser or purchasers shall fail to the amount of the purchase-money bid within the time above provided for.
" If said sum of $8,350,000 is 'not realized at such sale, the
governor shall, by himself or agent, buy in the same for and in
the name of the State of Missouri.

WOODSON V.

MURDOCK.

[Sup. ot

Statement of the case.

"SECTION 4. Upon the payment of all the purchase-money, as
specified in section two of this act, and upon the delivery of an
obligation in conformity with section three of this act, the governor shall execute a deed to the purchaser or purchasers, conveying all such right, title, and interest, in and to said Pacific
Railroad, its franchises, appurtenances, and the property belonging thereto, as are subject to the lien of this State."
Then followed section live, upou which the principal question made in this case turned.6
"SECTION 5. If the Pacific Railroad shall, at any time within
ninety days after the first day of April, 1868, pay into the treasury of the State the sum of 5350,000, in' bonds of this State, or
in money, then, and in that event, the governor shall not advertise said road for sale; and if the company shall, within ninety
days thereafter, pay into the State treasury an additional sum
equal to $5,000,000 in all (the same being either in cash or Missouri State bonds), the governor shall, upon the production of
the receipts of the State treasurer for said amounts, execute and
deliver to the Pacific Railroad Company a deed of release for all
claims, title, and interest which the State of Missouri has in and
to the said Pacific Railroad, its property and appurtenances;
and the said Pacific Railroad Company shall, from and after
the delivery of said deed, be fully discharged from all claims or
debts due the State, and all liability growing out of the issue of
the bonds of the State to aid in the construction of said road,
and no sale shall, in any event, take place under this act.
"If, however, for any cause, the said company shall be unable
to pay the additional sum as herein provided, the governor shall
proceed to advertise said road; but if the said company shall,
during the pendency of said advertisement, pay into the State
treasury the additional sum, with interest thereon from the first
day of October, 1868, at the rate of six per cent. per annum,
then, and in'that case, no sale of said road shall take place, and
the governor shall execute and deliver to the said Pacific Railroad Company the deed of conveyance and release provided for
in this act, and the said Pacific Railroad Company shall be ex
empt from all the liabilities and obligations herein specified;
but in case the said company shall, after tlh payment of $350,000
above stated, fail to pay the additional sum specifie-1 (being the

Oct. 1874.]

WOODSON V.

MURDOCK.

Statement of the case.

remainder of the $5,000,000), then, and in that case, the sum
first paid shall be forfeited to the State."
The company within the ninety days paid into the State
treasury the $350,000, and within ninety days thereafter the
balance of $5,000,000, and received a deed from the governor in pursuance of the act releasing and discharging it
and its property from all liens and claims on the part of the
State, and from all liabilities growing out of the issue of the
bonds of the State to aid in the construction of its road.
The governor's deed was made July 1st, 1868.
In order to take up the "Dresden bonds," and to raise the
$5,000,000 to be paid to the State, and to put its road in
repair, the company, on July 15th, 1868, made a mortgage
to Murdock and others (the complainants in the case), as
trustees, to secure $7,000,000 of bonds. This mortgage recited the act of March 31st, 1868; and it was the professed
intention to make it, after the payment of the $5,000,000 to
the State, and upon the payment of the Dresden bonds, a
first lien on the entire Pacific road, its property and franchises. Subsequently, on July 1st, 1871, a second mortgage
was made by the company fir $3,000,000, the proceeds of
which it is alleged were exclusively used in improving the
road, and in purchasing rolling-stock. Both ofthese mortgages were outstanding and unpaid, as also another mortgage for $800,000, secured upon certain lands in St. Louis,
purchased for a station.
In March, 1873, the General Assembly of Missouri adopted
a concurrent resolution reciting that grave doubts had arisen
as to the constitutionality of the act of March 31st, 1868,just
quoted, and directing proceedings to protect and enforce all
the rights and claims of the State against the road.
Upon this authority the governor advertised the road and
its appurtenances for sale under the original statutory lien
in favor of the State. This proceeding on the part of the
State authorities assumed that the fifth section of the act of
March 31st, 1868, was unconstitutional; that the statutory
lien of the State was yet in full force, and that it was the first
lien on the Pacific road, its property and appurtenances.

WOODSON V.

MURDOCK.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

If this assumption was well founded in point of law, then,
of course, the proposed sale, if made, would cut off the
mortgage to Murdock and the others (tie complainants),
and the rights of the holders of the $7,000,000 of bonds
secured thereby. On the other hand, if the said fifth section
was not unconstitutional, then the State had no lien to be
enforced, and the proposed sale, if made, would be wholly
nugatory.
The controlling question in the case, therefore, was whether the said fifth section violated either provision of the
constitution or violated the constitutional ordinance of the
State, as all are above quoted.
It was insisted1st, and in regard to the merits, that the transaction authorized by the said section, and carried out under it, evaded
that provision of the constitution which ordained that "the
General Assembly shall have no power whatever to release
the lien held by the State upon any railroad." And that
the transaction did evade the said provision of the constitution, it was argued, was made more obvious by the provisions in the fifth section of the constitutional ordinance,
that when the State sold any railroad for debt due the State
and bought it in, and afterwards sold it, it should not be sold
"without reserving a lien upon all the property, J.c., thus sold,
for all sums remaining unpaid;" a provision which the counseT insisting ou it, interpreted as meaning all those sums
"remaining unpaid," at the time when the sale was made
by the State, in the first instance; and not as meaning those
sums which might remain .unpaid after making any cash
payment on the occasion of the second sale, i. e., the sale
made by the State after she had by the first sale herself be-come the owner.
2d, and on grounds more technical, that the said section was unconstitutional, because it made the act in which
it was, relate to more than one subject; the subject presented by the said section not being the one embraced in
the title.
This title, as the reader will remember, was "An act for

Oct. 1874.]

WOODSON V

MURDOCK.

Argument for the State of Missouri.

the sale of the Pacific Railroad, and to foreclose the State's
lien thereon, and to amend the charter thereof."
The court below decided that the said section was not unconstitutional by reason of either objection urged against it.
1st. That the transaction under consideration was in effect
a sale of the State's interest to the company for $5,000,000;
that the legislature had the power to order a sale, and, not
being restrained by the constitution, it necessarily had the
power to fix the price and terms of the sale.
2d. That only the general purpose (which was to be a
single one) of the act needed to be expressed in it was its
title, and that this had been sufficiently done in the present
case.
An injunction against a sale by the governor was accordingly decreed. From that decree he took this appeal.
M. Britton A. Bill, for the plaintiff in error:
L The fifth section of the act of 1868 is unconstitutional,
because it declares that the governor shall execute to the
Pacific Railroad Company a deed of release for all claims,
title, or interest, which the State of Missouri has in or to
the said railroad, its property and appurtenances, on the
payment of $5,000,000, when a much larger sum was then
due to the State, and fbr payment of which sum the State
held a lien on the road.*
This release is in conflict with the article of the constitution of Missouri, which ordains that "the General Assembly
shall have no power, for any purpose whatever, to release the
lien held by the State upon any railroad."
Under the constitution, this lien could not be reeased without payment of the debt due in full. The $5,000,000 paid to
the State treasurer in 1868 extinguished the lien of the State.
At the time of the execution of the deed of release in July, 1868, the
A
State lien on the bonds lent to the Pacific Railroad Company was $7,000,000,
on which interest had been paid up to the 1st of July, 1859. The amount
of interest on these seven millions of bonds from the 1st of July, 1859, to
the 1st of July, 1868, at six per cent. per annum, is $420,000 a year, or
$3,780,000 for nine years, making $10,780,000 then due the State.

WOODSON V. MURDOCK.

[-Sup. Ct.

Argument for the State of Missouri.

to that extent, but the remaining sum due the State continues to be a lien on the road.
The words used in the clause of the constitution under
consideration are clear and definite, admitting of no judicial
construction to alter, vary, or affect the plain intent of the
people in adopting it.*
That the fifth section of the act of 1868 is unconstitutional, is made more plain by the railroad ordinance which
is entitled, "An ordinance for the payment of the State and
railroad indebtedness," and which was adopted as a part of
the constitution.
The ordinance expressly declares that the railroads shall
pay their bonds lent to them by the State, principal and interest, in full, without any abatement, iii money or bonds of
the State; that such payment of said bonds, principal and
interest, shall be enforced; 1st. By levying and collecting a
tax of ten per cent. oil the gross earnings of the railroads for
two years, up to the 1st of October, 1868, and a tax of fifteen
per cent. from and after said date, until all of said bonds,
principal and interest, are paid in full, in money or bonds of the
Slate; 2d. If the said railroads fiil to pay the said tax and
the principal and interest of all bonds loaned said railroads
.by the State, then the railroads shall be sold under the lien
(of 1851) reserved to the State, and the proceeds of such
sales shall be appropriated to the payment of the amount
remaining due and unpaid from said railroad companies;
and, 3d. If the State buys any railroad at such sale on statutory foreclosure, the General Assembly shall provide by
law how the same may be sold for the payment of the debt
of the railroad company in default; but no railroad property or franchises so bought by the State can be restored to
any company so in default, until it shall first have paid all
interest due from said comppny. And all interest to accrue
shall be paid semi-annually, in advance, and all swns remaining unpaid shall be secured by a lien on all the property and
Cooley on Constitutional 'Limitation,

2d ed., 1871, p. 55 and notes;

Opinion of Mr. Justice Bronson in People v. Purdy, 2 Hill; 35; Spencer v.
State) 5 Indiana, 76; State v. King, 44 Missouri, 285.

Oct. 1874.]

WOODSON V. MURDOCK.
Argument for the State of Missouri.

franchises so sold or disposed of, and all payments of such
liens shall be made in money or in Slate bonds.
The constitution and the railroad ordinance are to be
construed together, as one instrument.
IL The fifth section of the act of 31st March, 1868, is
unconstitutional for the further reason that the subject of
the section is not expressed in the title of the act, as required by the constitution.
This act of 1868, excluding the fifth section, provides for
all the purposes stated in the title, in strict accordance with
the constitution and constitutional ordinance, to sell the
railroad and appurtenances at public auction, on six months'
notice, to foreclose the lien of the State thereon, and to
amend the charter of the company.
But the fifth section is inserted into the act providing for
a repeal of all the preceding clauses therein, and to prevent
the sale of the road and the foreclosure of the State lien
thereon. So far from the subject of said fifth section being
embraced in the title of the act, it is directly in conflict
with it. The fifth section declares that on the payment of
$350,000 into the State treasury within ninety days after the
1st of April, 1868, "the governor shall not advertise said
road for sale, and if the company within ninety days thereafter pay into the State treasury an additional sum equal to
$5,000,000 in all, the governor shall... execute and deliver
to the said Pacific Railroad Company a deed of release for
all claims, title, and interest which the State of Missouri has
in and to the said Pacific Railroad, its property and appurtenances ... and no sale shall, in that event, take place under
this act."
In every respect this fifth section is in conflict with the
title of the act, and embraces different and opposite subjects,
to wit: To prevent the advertisement and "sale of the
road," and to prevent "the foreclosure of the State lien
thereon ;" by releasing that lien for less than one-third the
amount secured to the State by the existing statutory liens
on the railroad.
The title of the act is, therefore, plainly contradicted by

'WOODSON V.

IMURDOCK.

ESup. Ot

Argument for the trustees of the bondholders.

the subjects embraced in the fifth sedion. Totally different
subjects are stated in the title, and no reader of the title
could imagine the subjects-embraced in the fifth section.
The title required to embrace the subjects contained in
the fifth section would be: "An act to prevent the sale of
the--Pacifie Railroad, and to prevent the foreclosure of the
State's lien thereon, by a release of the lien of the State for
$10,780,000 on the payment of $5,000,000."
In the Indiana Central Railway Company v. Polls,* the
court says:
"Every statute must have a title, that title must designate a
single subject for the sections following it, and that subject must
be reasonably particular and not too general, for otherwise the
object of the constitutional provision would be wholly thwarted;
and a part of the object of that provision was that the title
should indicate the character of the sections of the act."t
No case can be found of an enactment held valid where
the subject of a section of an act is in direct conflict with the
act and with the title also; there being in the constitution
of the State such a provision as here. In fhct the fifth section
would repeal the title and all the other sections of the act.
Messrs. W. M. Evarts, J. B. Henderson, and J. Baker,
contra:
I. The clause of the constitution first relied on by opposing counsel is:
"The General Assembly shall have no power for any purpose
whatever to release the lien held by the State upon any railroad."
This cannot mean that the State, upon payment of the
debt of the railroad company, cannot execute a release of
the property from the lien of the State.
* 7 Indiana, 681.

t State v. Miller, 45 Missouri, 495; The State ex rel, Hickson v. Lafayette County Court, 41 Id. 39; The People ex rel. McConnel et al. v. Hills,
85 New York, 44; The People ex rel. Failing v. The Commissioners of
Highways, 53 Barbour, 70; Chiles et al. v. Monroe, 4 Metcalf, 72; Walker
v. Caldwell, 4 Louisiana Annual, 298.

O)ct. 1874.]

WOODSON

V. MURDOCK.

Argument for the trnstees of the bondholders.

It cannot mean that the State cannot enforce the lien by
such methods as seem to promise the best result ia value
therefrom to the State as creditor, and upon such enforcement to release the property from the lien of the State.
It does not purport to restrict the State in the choice of
means or modes of making the most in val. ie out of the lien,
and thereupon of releasing the lien.
It does mean that these liens of the State are not at its
disposal for favor or gift or grace. They are to be treated
as public property, and dealt with by the General Assembly
under the public obligation of preserving and realizing their
value to the State.
This clause severs this subject from the general discretion
of the supreme law-making power, and confines the discretion to dealing as creditor with debtor, in respect of the
property and value involved.
But this lesser discretion is left unhampered, and its exercise can never be the subject of judicial control while it
maintains the character of the choice of means to realize the
lien, not to release it without realizing.
The State having full discretion in coiaputing the money
value of its lien, had the full power to discharge it upon receiving that computed value.
The elements of this computation aie, in the rough, the
value of the property, either for forced sale in the market
or to be nursed by the State, and the considerations which
should encourage one course for realizing the lien or another. If the State observes this purpose in its legislation,
no court can revise its discretion, either in amounts or
modes.
The act of the State of Missouri contains plenary evidence that its whole purpose was to measure and secure the
best value from "the lien in one or the other of three ways.
By a sale of the railroad in the market at a minimum I ,ice
limited.
By a purchase by the State at a maximum price of curchase, to wit, the minimum fixed for the sale in the market.
Bv a realization of the value of the lien as thus com-

WOODSON V. MURDOCK.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the trusteeT of the bondholders.

puted, as the result of sale or purchase of the property, by
receiving from the company a substantial equivalent for
what the State would realize by one or the other of the alternative methods.
It is manifest, upon the pecuniary elements of the computation upon which the act proceeds, that it preserves and
enforces the lien, and releases it for the computed valuenot for grace.,
The constitution being thus self-luminous-intelligible,
we mean, of itself-and not requiring to be read by reflected
light from any source, we need not refer, at all, to the constitutional ordinance, within no part of which the facts of
the present case come; and which is invoked by the other
side only because it is supposed to cast a light upon the constitution, without which the constitution cannot be rightly
understood; an assumption which would give a singular and unfortunate peculiarity to the constitution of the
State.
II. Nothing appears in the act of 1868 beyond what is
indicated hi the title.
The company alleges that the State sold its interest in the
road, and that the State's lien was foreclosed by the act of
sale. So far the purposes of the act are indicated by the
title, and so far the act cannot be void. Different and incongruous subjects are not brought together in the*act, but
the provisions as to the sale of the road, and the foreclosure
of the State's lien thereon, relate to but one subject within
the meaning of the constitutional provision, and this subject is expressed in the title.
The Supreme Court of Missouri has decided that this provision of the constitution of its State does not prevent the
uniting in one enactment all those subjects germane to, or
connected or congruous with, the general subject-matter of
the bill.* Thus the reorganization of the State Bank as a
National bank, the selling of stock therein belonging to
the State, and the investment of the funds derived from such
-t. Louis v. Tiefel, 42 Missouri, 578; State v. Miller, 45 Id. 495.

Oct. 1874.]

WOODSON V.

MURDOCK.

Opinion of the court.-Recapitulation of the case.

sale, were matters intimately connected and blended, and
might be embraced in one bill. Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
It has not been contended here that the complainants are
not entitled to the injunction decreed by the Circuit Court,
if the act of the Missouri legislature, approved March 81st,
1868, was a legitimate exercise of the legislative powaer.
But it is insisted that the fifth section of that act is in conflict with the constitution of the State, and, therefore, that
the arrangement made under it with the Pacific Railroad
Company cannot be held to operate as a discharge of the
company from the debt due by it to the State, or as a release of the railroad from the lien of the State's mortgage.
The question presented, then, is this: Was the fifth section
of the act mentioned prohibited by the constitution of the
State? By the first section the governor was directed to
sell the Pacific Railroad and its appurtenances, in accordance with the provisions of section five of the act, and of
an act approved February 22d, 1851, entitled "An act to
expedite the construction of the Pacific Railroad and the
Hannibal and St. Joseph Railroad." By the second section
the price for which the railroad was directed to be sold was
required to be not less than $8,350,000 payable to the State
treasurer, in bonds of the State or in money, within ninety
days from the day of sale. Itf that sum was not obtained
the governor was required to buy in the railroad for the
State. By the third section it was made a condition of the
sale that the purchaser or purchasers should bind himself
or themselves to change the gauge of the road within ten
years from the date of sale, so as to conform to the gauge
of the Union Pacific Railroad. The fourth section enacted
that upon the payment of all the purchase-money, and upon
* State v. Bank of Missouri, 45 Missouri, 528; and see to the same effect
Murphy v. Menard, 11 Texas, 673; People v. M akamey, 13 Michigan, 495;
State v. County Judge, 2 Iowa, 280; Morford v. Unger, 8 Id. 82; Whiting
v. Mt. Pleasant, 11 Id. 482; Supervisors v. People, 25 Illinois, 181; Clinton
v. Draper, 14 Indiana, 295; Mosier v. Hilton, 15 Barbour, 657.

WOODSON V. MURDOCK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-A compromise allowable.

the delivery of an obligation, in conformity to the require.
ment of the third section, the governor should execute a
deed to the purchaser or purchasers conveying all such right,
title, and interest in and to the said Pacific Railroad, its franchises, appurtenances, and the property belonging thereto
as were subject to the lien of the State. Then followed the
fifth section, which is the one mainly in contest. It enacted
that if the Pacific Railroad Company should, at any time
within ninety days after the 1st day of April, 1868, pay into
the treasury of the State the sum of $350,000, in the bondsof the State or in money, then, and in that event, the governor should not advertise the road for sale; and if the
company should, within ninety days thereafter, pay into the
State treasury an additional sum equal to $5,000,000 in all
(either in cash or in Missouri State bonds), the governor
should, upon the production of the receipts of the State
treasurer for the said amounts, execute and deliver to the
said Pacific Railroad Company a deed of release for all
claims, title, and interest which the State of Missouri had in
and to the railroad, its property and appurtenances, and
that the Pacific Railroad Company should, from and after
the delivery of the deed, be fully discharged from all claims
or debts due the State, and all liability growing out of the
issue of the bonds of the State toaid in the construction of
their railroad.
Within ninety days after the passage of this act the company paid into the State treasury $350,000, and within
ninety days after such payment $4,650,000 more, in all
$5,000,000, the sum specified in the fifth section, and received from the governor a deed conveying all the right,
title, and interest of the State, and discharging it from all
liens and claims of the State, and from all liability growing
out of the issue of State bonds to aid in the construction of
its road.
That this was a compromise of the claims of the State
against the company; practically, a sale to the company of
the State's interest growing out of its advan ,e of State

Oct. 1874.]

WOODSON V.

MURDOCK.

Opinion of the court.-A compromise allowable.

bonds under the statutes of 1851, and the following years,
is very plain, and such was its obvious intention. The principal of the debt was not then payable. The bonds issued
by the State had not then fallen due. All of them were
either twenty or thirty-year bonds, and the company was
under no obligation to pay the principal until the bonds became payable. The extent of her obligation -was measured
by the provisions of the act of 1851. That act required the
company to make provisibn for the payment of the principal and interest of the bonds in such manner as to exonerate the State from any advances of money for that purpose, and, had the interest been paid up to 1868, the State
could then have exacted no more. The interest, it is true,
was in arrears from July 1st, 1859. To that extent the
State had an immediate claim upon the company, but as
the whole debt, according to the agreed statement of facts,
was $7,000,000, the aggregate of unpaid interest in 1868
was less than $4,000,000. The arrangement then made, by
which $5,000,000 was received in full satisfaction, and the
deed given, included, therefore, not only interest due, but
principal which had not fallen due, and, hence, it may properly be regarded as a commutation or a sale of the rights of
the State to the company.
We come then to the question whether anything in the
constitption of the State prohibits such a transaction. A
new constitution was adopted in 1865, the fifteenth section
of the fourth article of which is as follows: "The General
Assembly shall have no power, for any purpose, to release
the lien held by the State upon any railroad." This provision, it is insisted by the appellants, denied to the legislature the power to make such a disposition of the interests
of the State as was made in 1868 in virtue of the fifth section of the act of March 31st of that year.
The language of the prohibition is remarkable. It is not
that the General Assembly shall not release the debt due to
the State by any railroad company. Legislative control
over the debt is left untouched. The provision has reference only to a security for the debt. Had it been inten'ded

WOODSON V. MURD00K.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the eourt.-A compromise allowable.

to put the debt beyond the disposition of the legislature, it
would be difficult to find a reason for confining the prohibition to a release merely of the lien. But it is easy to see
why it should be ordained that while the debt remained, the
security for it should not be given up. And that such was
the intention appears quite plainly in view of the state of
things which existed when the constitution was framed and
adopted. Prior to its 'adoption it may be said to have become almost a legislative habit to release the liens held by
the State upon railroads without discharging the debts. In
numerous cases statutes had been enacted by which railroad companies were authorized to borrow money, and to
mortgage their roads as security for the loans, the State releasing its lien, to give the mortgagees a priority. The
purposes for which these releases were made were various,
and they were generally avowed in the statutes. Thus, in
1864 the legislature released the State's lien upon a part of
the Pacific road, avowedly for the purpose of enabling the
company to complete its main road to Kansas City. At the
same time the lien of the State on the North Missouri Railroad was released for several avowed purposes,-to enable
the company to complete their main road to the Iowa State
line; to enable the company to construct its west branch;
and to enable it to build a bridge across the Missouri River.
And again, in 1865, February 16th, the legislature released
the first lien of the State upon the road of the same company for the same purposes, retaining, however, a second
lien. All this took place very shortly before the constitution was adopted. That such releases were contemplated
when the convention framed the constitutional inhibition.
and when the people ratified it, can hardly be doubted.
The constitution was plainly intended to prohibit them, and,
therefore, language was employed denying the power to
release the lien, and saying nothing of the debt. Certainly
there is no expressed restriction of legislative power over
the debt itself. If any exists it must be supplied by impli.cation. Keeping in mind, then, that the constitutional prohibition is directed only against a release of liens, what

Oct. 1874.]

WOODSON V.

MURDOCK.

Opinion of the court.-A compromise allowable.

should be regarded as its meaning? We agree it is not to
be frittered away by doubtful construction, but like every
clause in every constitution it must have a reasonable interpretation, and be held to express the intention of its framers.
It must be held to have been intended for the public protection, for the preservation of the public property, and to
make available claims the State held against railroads. But
if it is to be construed reasonably, and in accordance with
what must have been the intentions of those who adopted it,
it cannot be construed literally. It cannot mean that the
lien of the State upon a railroad shall not be released upon
full payment of the debt, to secure which the lien was
created. If it does, it is equivalent to a prohibition against
the State's receiving payment. Surely it will not be contended to deprive the legislature of power to make use of
the lien to enforce satisfa ction of the debt, though thereby
the lien be discharged. That would be to destroy the value
of the lien. Nor can it mean that the lien may not be employed to obtain from the property bound by it all that the
property is worth and all that the indebted company cau
pay, though that be less than the entire amount or the debt.
It is not a restriction upon the power of the legislature to
make the most which in its judgment is possible from the
security. In terms the legislature is left unrestricted as to
the mode of receiving payment, or settling with its debtois.
Composition, accord and satisfactioji, and full payment in
cash are left within the legislative discretion, at least so far
as the liquidation of the debt is concerned. So there is
nothing in the clause of the constitution quoted which can
be regarded as a restriction upon the power of the legislature to sell any claims held by the State against a railroad
company. It is not an ordinance that the legislature shall
not deal with debts due to the State from railroad companies as it may deal with debts due from other debtors. It
is that the lien shall not be released for any purpose whatever,
that is, for the accomplishment of any object the legislature
might have in view, and unless we can hold this means ib
shall not be released even by full payment of the debt, it
VOL. XXII.

24

WOODSON V. MURDOCK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-A compromise allowable.

can mean no more than this, that, while the debt remains,
the legislature may not let go the security for it. Such a
construction accounts for the peculiarity of the language
employed. There is a very palpable distinction between the
lien which the State holds upon a railroad and the debt, obligation, or duty which the lien was created to secure. The
two could not have been confounded by the framers of the
constitution. If it was intended that, under all circumstances, every dollar due from a railroad company should
be exacted, and that no settlement should be made, or sale
authorized, without payment of the uttermost farthing, it is
incredible that the constitution would not have so declared.
That such was not the intention is plainly shown by the railroad ordinance adopted with the constitution, and a part of
the organic law of the State. By that ordinance the legislature was authorized and directed to sell the railroads on
their failure to pay a tax levied, and when the sale should
be made to others than the indebted companies, no limitation was directed to be affixed to the price, and such a sale,
we have no doubt, would have discharged the road from the
State's lien. The State itself was empowered to become a
purchaser at the sale at any price at which it could buy,
and whenever it purchased, the lien, of course, was merged
in the title, and the General Assemnbly was required to provide by law in what manner the railroad, or franchises, or
other property, should be sold for the payment of the indebtedness of the company in default. But the ordinance
does not require that at such sale the purchasaei'from the
State shall pay the full amount of that indehftedness. A
lien is required to be reserved for all sums remaining unpaid; that is, very clearly, for all that part of the purchasemoney from the State at her sale which remains - unpaid.
If this is not the meaning, the State may never'be able to
sell at all, and the plain purpose of the ordinance may be
entirely frustrated. And that such is its meaning has been
-determined by the Supreme Court of Missouri.* The fifth
* See 37 Missouri, 129.

Oct. 1874.]

WOODSON V.

MURDOCK.

Opinion of the court.-A compromise allowable.

section of the ordinance does, indeed, require that no railroad or other property, or franchise purchased by the State
shall be restored to the company in default until it shall have
first paid in money, or in Missouri State bonds, or in bonds
guaranteed by the State, all interest due from said company,
and requires that all interest coming due thereafter shall be
paid semi-annually in advance; but even this is no assertion
that such a restoration shall not be made for a sum less than
the original indebtedness. Whether it may or not it is
unnecessary to decide, for the provision applies only to a
case where the road has been sold, and where the State has
become the purchaser, which is not this case.
Neither the clause in the body of the constitution, there
fore, nor any provisions of the railroad ordinance forbid the
legislature to sell the railroad, or compromise the debt
claimed by the State, for less than the entire indebtedness.
It lollows, then, that though the legislature had no power
to release the lien while the debt remained, it was not prohibited from selling the claim or commuting the debt. And
there is no inconsistency in this. The legislature may well
.have been trusted with the management of the obligation,
responsible only to its constituents, while the security for
the fulfilment of the obligation may have been withdrawn
from its control. A trustee may have no right to give up a
security for a claim, and yet be at full liberty to settle and
adjust the claim itself or to sell it. It need hardly be added
that if the legislature had power to accept a commutation
of the claim of the State, or to sell the debt for what in its
judgment it deemed best for the public interests, it had also
power to make a formal relinquishment of the lien after the
debt had been liquidated. The constitutional provision was
not designed to continue in existence liens that the law had
extinguished.
For these reasons we hold that the fifth section of the act
of the legislature of March 31st, 1868, was not in conflict
with that provision of the constitution which forbids, for
any purpose whatever, a release of the lien held by the State
npon any railroad.

372"*

WO00DS0- T V. MURDOCK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-The railroad ordinance.

Nor do we perceive that there is any conflict between it
and the railroad ordinance. The appellants insist that the
ordinance forbids any sale of a defaulting railroad except at
public auction, for a price equal to the full amount of the
debt of the defaulting company,-and without a reservation
of a lien upon the property sold, not merely for the unpaid
part of the purchase-money, but for all that remains unpaid
of-the debt for which the property is sold. Such is not our
reading of the ordinance, ndr is it that of the Supreme Court
of the State. We have already said that the lien required
to be reserved is only to secure the unpaid balance of the
"purchase-money. This is too clear for argument. It is
equally clear to us the ordinance does not require that the
sale shall be for a price equal to the whole debt, or that it
shall be at public auction. The first, second, and third sections impose upon each of three railroad companies, of which
the Pacific Railroad Company is one, an annual tax of tea
per centum of the gross receipts, for two years, and fifteen
per centum thereafter, until the principal and interest of the
bonds for which the companies were liable should be fully
paid. Then followed the fourth section, as follows: "Should
either of said companies refuse or neglect to pay said tax as
herein required, and the interest or principal of any of said
bonds, or any part thereof remain due and unpaid, the General Assembly shall provide by law for the sale of the railroad and other property, and the franchise of the company
that shall be thus in default, under the lien reserved to the
State, and shall appropriate the proceeds of such sale to the
payment of the amount remaining due-and unpaid from said
company." There is nothing in this which takes away from
the legislature the power to determine the time, the manner,
or the price of the sale which it was directed to cause to be
made. It is true the sale is ordered to be made under the
lien reserved to the State, referring, doubtless, to the mortgage taken under the act of 1851, and it is also true that by
that act it was enacted that if either of the companies to
which bonds might be issued should make default in the
payment of either principal or interest of the said bonds, the

Oct. 1874.]

WOODSON V.

MURDOCK.

-373

Opinion of the court.-The subjects of the act not incongruous.

governor might sell their road by auction, giving six months'
notice, or buy it in for the use of the State, but these provisions were no part of the lien. They were means specified
for enforcing it. The legislature was at liberty to provide
other means of collecting the debt and enforcing the lien.
The sale directed by the ordinance was for non-payment of
the tax imposed, and the direction to sell under the lien reserved was simply an order to proceed to collect the mortgage. The lien is not to be confounded with proceedings
for its foreclosure.
Finally, it is insisted by the appellants that the fifth section of the act of 1868 is unconstitutional because its subject
is not embraced in the title of the act, and because the constitution ordains that "no law enacted by the General Assembly shall relate to more than one subject, and that shall
be expressed in the title; but if any subject be not embraced
in the title, such act shall be void only as to so much thereof
as is not so expressed." The title of the act of 1868 is "An
act for the sale of the Pacific Railroad, and to foreclose the
State's lien thereon, and to amend the charter thereof."
That the subject of the fifth section is embraced in this title
is very apparent. If the subject is not the foreclosure of the
State's lien, it is impossible to say what it is. And we think
it cannot be justly said the act embraces more than one subject. It has many details, but they all relate to one general
subject, which is the sale of the railroad and the foreclosure
of the State's lien thereon.*
We cannot sustain this objection.
Nothing, then, in our judgment, warrants the conclusion
that the fifth section of the act of March 31st, 1868, was not
a legitimate exercise of the legislative power of the General
Assembly of the Stiate. It follows that the arrangement
made in pursuance of it with the Pacific Railroad Company,
and the deed of the governor to the company, extinguished
the debt due to the State, and, consequently, put an end to
the lien.
* Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, 141 et seq.

WOODSON V.

MURDOCK.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of Miller and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

The $5,000,000 paid to the State were raised upon bonds
of the company and a mortgage, of which the complainants
in the court below are trustees. The money was advanced
on the faith of the legislation of 1868, and so were $3,000,000
more, for which a subsequent mortgage was given. If that
legislation was not unconstitutional, as we have endeavored
to show it was not, it would be a gross wrong to the bondholders who thus advanced their money, were the defendants
permitted to sell the railroad, its property, and franchises,
for the satisfaction of a claim or lien which has no longer
any existence.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice MILLER, with whom concurred Mr. Justice
DAVIS, dissenting.
I cannot agree to the judgment of the court, and think
the principle involved of sufficient importance to justify an
expression of my views.
For many years previous to the late civil war the principal
railroads in the State of Missouri had been the objects of the
special care of the people, and had received large pecuniary
aid from the State. This aid had been given at various times
and in divers sums, in the shape of the bowlds of the State,
to the extent, in the aggregate, of twenty-five millions of
dollars or more. For these sums, which were treated as
loans, the railroad companies had consented to statutory
liens in the nature of mortgages, with conditions to pay the
bonds of the State, interest and principal, as they fell due.
If the terms of the loan were not precisely as I have stated
in all cases, they were substantially so, and any variations
in special instances do not affect the 4uestioul under consideration.
The State of Missouri was, almost as much as any State
in the Union, the seat of the worst calamities of that war.
Its people were divided among themselves; regular armies
marched and countermarched over its soil, and each side
used or abused the railroads to their utmost capacity when
within their control. But, hbove all, the local guerrilla

Oct. 1874.]

WooDSON

V.

MURDOOK

Opinion of Miller and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

warfare, to which the disputed control of her territory and
the divided allegiance of her people subjected them, was the
cause of immense destruction and damage of her railroads.
These companies, therefore, emerged from the war with
their roads ini a state of repair which hardly admitted of
use, and the rolling stock so deteriorated that new supplies
were indispensable. Their credit was low, their means exhausted, and their property apparently worth but little.
They were unable to meet their obligations to the State,
and were largely in arrears for the interest on the State
bonds.
The State itself was in little better condition. To the
heavy burdens of increased taxation, imposed by the Federal
government to support the war and pay its debt, was now
added the necessity of paying the interest ou the large debt
of the State incurred in aid of the railroad companies.
The question forced itself upon the people of the State
and the railroad companies, what is to be done in this emergency? The people of the State felt the injustice, in their
overburdened condition, of being called on to pay, without
aid from the corporations, the debt incurred for their benefit,
and this hardship was not diminished by the consideration
that the roads were owned and controlled by stockholders,
very few of whom were citizens of Missouri. The railroad
companies felt that if their roads were to be made capable
of accomplishing the purpose of their creation, all their
means and all their credit must be devoted to repairing and
rebuilding the roads and refurnishing the rolling stock.
The railroad companies and that part of the people of the
State who felt a stronger interest in the roads appealed to
the generosity of the legislature to relieve the roads from
the burden of the debt to the State. Those who believed
that the credit of the State and the relief of the people from
the burden of excessive taxation were of paramount importance thought the State should relieve herself as far as possible by enforcing her lien 'at the expense of the stockholders, and by sale of the roads, realize all they would bring,
and, appropriating this to the payment of the bonds of the

WOODSON V.

MURDOCK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Miller and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

State, diminish to that extent the taxation necessary to pay
the interest on her large public debt.
The appeal for leniency to the railroad companies had
many and able advocates, and was warmly urged by them,
and assisted by all the appliances which that class of corporations use with so much effect. The legislature had in
several instances released liens altogether on some roads,
and had postponed liens to let in subsequent ones, thus
showing what might be expected of that body.
It was in the midst of the discussion of this question that
the members of the constitutional convention of 1865 were
elected, and in the face of the difficulties which it presented
that the convention assembled.
They took cognizance of the matter. They understood
that they were expected to adopt some plan of relief, and
whatever plan was adopted must be based mainly, if not
exclusively, on one or the other of the two propositions we
have named. We are now called upon to give judicial construction to what they did, and, by all the rules of sound interpretation, it must be done in view of the condition of
affairs which their action was intended to relieve and of the
public sentiment which they intended to represent.
It was very clear then, it is equally clear now, looking
alone to what was incorporated into the constitution by that
convention, that it wholly rejected the idea of leniency to
the railroad companies, and that its sole care was to conserve the pecuniary interest of the State.
As the constitution stood when the convention assembled
it was in the power of the legislature-of any legislatureat any time, under the pressure of any influence, to -release
the lien of the State on the roads, or to make any other
compromise of the claim of the State. If the convention
was fully determined against this policy, it was their first
duty to take this power from the legislative body altogether.
The first thing to be done was to forbid the legislature from
granting this relief. In the effort to carry out this purpose
the convention placed in the body of the constitution, article
IV, section 15, the declaration that "the General Assembly

Oct.,
1874.]
1

WOODSON V.

MIURDOCK.

Opinion of Miller and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

shall have no power whatever to release the lieu held by the
State upon any railroad."
It seems to me strange that this provision should be the
subject of a divided opinion as to its meaning. The release
here meant could not have been the execution of a technical
instrument called a release. No such absurdity can be imputed to the convention, because if the debt was paid, or
otherwise discharged, so that the lien no longer existed, the
making of such al instrument was of no value to any one.
The thing prohibited was the discharge or remission in any
shape of the specific lien which the State had on the roads
for tile repayment of the bonds she had advanced or loaned
to the companies. To make this more emphatic all power
whatever on this subject was taken away. No pressing exigency, no motive, however pure or generous, and no consideration even of pecuniary wisdom in which the legislature
might indulge, or believe, was to justify this discharge of
the lieu which the State held as security for her advances.
How can it be maintained in the face of this that while the
legislature could not release from motives of grace,-and for
the purpose of a gratuity, it could release on a purpose of
compromise by accepting one-third or one-half of the debt
secured by the lien ? If one-third could be accepted, then
one-tenth. If five millions could be accepted when ten
were due, then five dollars could be accepted. It is to be
borne in mind that we are considering the constitutional
power of the legislature to release the lien, and on this
question we are not at liberty to consider whether it acted
wisely or reasonably. If they could release at all, or for
any consideration, the court cannot say they have exceeded
their power. But the constitution seems to place all this
beyond question by saying it shall not have any power whatever to do this thing.
The work of the convention was, however, to be submitted to a vote of the people. If it received a majority of
the votes cast, it became the fundamental law of the land.
Otherwise it passed for nothing. Other propositions were
submitted separately, and might be adopted or rejected

WOODSON V. MURDOCK.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of Miller and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

without hazarding the whole instrument. But so important did the convention deem this provision that they put it
into the body of the new constitution, so that the latter
could not be adopted without including the former.
If, however, the question of releasing the road from its
debt to the State was thus settled in the negative, there still
remained the question. of the present enforcement of the lien
by sale or otherwise. This question was left by the convention to a vote of the people in a separate ordinance,
which might be adopted or rejected without dfeating the
constitution itself, but which, if adopted, became part of the
constitution.
Both the constitution and this ordinance were submitted
at the same time, and both were adopted and became part
of the fundamental law of the land at the same time. This
ordinance throws a flood of light on the intention of the
men who framed the constitution in adopting the section
we have just discussed. It imposed a tax of ten per cent.
on the gross receipts of the three principal roads from October, 1864, to ,October, 1868, and fifteen per cent. thereafter;
to be devoted to the payment of the principal and interest
of the bonds loaned by the State; and it required that if
either of said companies neglected or refused to pay said
tax, the General Assembly should provide by law for the
sale of that road. The fifth section of this ordinance is as
follows:
"Whenever the State shall become the purchaser of any
railroad or other property, or the franchises sold as hereinbefore provided for, the General Assembly shall provide by
law in what manner the same shall be sold for the payment
of the indebtedness of the railroad company in default; but
no railroad or other property or franchises purchased by the
State shall be restored to any such company until it shall
have first paid, in money or in Missouri State bonds, or in
bonds guaranteed by this State, all interest due from said
company, and all interest thereafter accruing shall be paid
semi-annually in advance; and no sale or other disposition
of any such railroad or other property or their franchises,

Oct. 1874.]

WOODSON V.

MURDOCK.

Opinion of Miller and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

shall be made without reserving a lien upon all the property and franchises thus sold or disposed of, for all sums remaining unpaid; and all payments therefor shall be made
in money or in the bonds or other obligations of this State."
The manner in which this ordinance was put to the people
is significant. The ballot was to be, "Shall the railroads
pay their bonds? Yes." "Shall the railroads pay their
bonds? N{o." The former was a vote for adopting the ordinance; the latter was a vote against it. It is thus seen
that if this ordinance was adopted, both the convention and
the people were in earnest in their determination not to release any claim the State had in those companies. The peculiar provision of the above section makes this very clear.
It' the State became the purchaser the legislature should
provide for the manner of its resale; but in no event was it
to be restored by resale or otherwise to the company wha
had owned it until that company had first paid in money,
or bonds of the State of Missouri, all the accrued interest
due from said company; and all interest thereafter to accrue
was to be paid in advance semi-annually. It was also provided that no sale or other disposition of such railroad should
be made without reserving a lien- upon all the property and
franchises thus sold or disposed of for all sums remaining
unpaid.
The sale or disposition here spoken of had reference to a
sale to other parties than to the defaulting company. And
even in that case the ordinance provided that none should
be made which did not secure the State for all her liabilities
on account of the road. The clause can have no other
meaning but this, though it is ably argued that it. means
such part of the consideration or the new sale as may be on
credit. But, taking the constitutional provision, the prohibition in the ordinance against a restoration of the roads
without payment of what is due, and security for what is to
become due, it seems to me hardly to admit of a doubt that
in no event was the road to pass from the control of the State
without security against any loss by reason of these bonds.
But however this may be, the constitutional prohibition

WOODSON V.

MURDOCK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Miller and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

against releasing the lien, the provisions of the ordinance
for the levy of a severe tax on the gross receipts, the direction for a sale if it was not paid, and the two provisions
against restoration to the same company until full payment,
indicate to my mind the unmistakable determination of the
convention and the people that the companies should, in the
language of the prescribed ballot, "pay their bonds,"-pay
them in fall,-or lose their roads, their property and frauchises.
The answer inade to all this is, that while the legislature
could not release the lien they could remit the debt. That
while they could not restore the road to the same company
after the State had bought it in, they could sell to the company the debt which that company owed the State at any
price it chose. That while the State could not release the
lien by any legislative act, it could compromise or sell the
debt, and thus defeat, destroy, or part with that lien.
It "s said if the convention intended to prohibit the legislature from dealing as it chose with the debt, it could easily
have said so, instead of using the word lien. If the convention had said that the legislature shall have no power to
discharge the debt without-full payment, it could then be
argued with much more force that the lien might be released
though the debt could not be touched. On the other hand,
so long as the lien remained the debt must remain, for there
could be no lien without the debt. It seems to me, therefore, that the convention used the stronger and better term,
the one which included both, and which expressed precisely
what they meant, namely, that both the debt and the lien of
the debt should remain inviolate except by payment. If
there could be any doubt of this, the form of submission of
the ordinance on which the people voted, that the "roads
should pay their bonds," makes it too clear for dispute.
IBut of what avail are constitutional restrictions of legislative power, or legislative restrictions of municipal power,
if they are disregarded by the legislatures and municipalities ?
. It may be said that there remains to the people the pro-

Oct. 1874.]

MORGAN

V.

CAMPBELL.

Syllabus.

tection of the courts. But language is at best a very imperfect instrument in the expression of thought, and the fundamental principles of government found in constitutions
must necessarily be declared in terms very general, because
they must be very comprehensive.
The ingenuity of casuists and linguists, the nice criticism
of able counsel, the zeal which springs from a large pecuniary interest, and the appeal of injured parties against the
bad faith of the legislatures who violate the constitution are
easily invoked, and their influence persuasive with the courts,
as they always must be.
And if language as plain as that we have been considering, a purpose so firmly held and clearly expressed is to be
frittered away by construction, then courts themselves become but feeble barriers to legislative will and legislative
corruption, and the interest of the people, which alone is to
suffer, has but little to hope from the safeguards of written
constitutions.
These instruments themselves, supposed to be the peculiar pride of the American people, and the great bulwark
to personal and public rights, must fall rapidly into disrepute if they are found to be efficient only for the benefit of
the rich and powerful, and the absolute majority on any
subject will seek to enforce their views without regard to
those restrictions on legislative power which are used only
to their prejudice.

MORGAN

V.

CAMPBELL, ASSIGNEE.

1. Under the Landlord and Tenant Act of Illinois, which enacts in its
seventh section that"In all cases of distress for rent it shall be lawful for the landlord, by himself, his agent, or attorney, to seize for rent any personal property of his tenant
that may be found in the county where such tenant shall reside, and in no case
shall the property of any other person, although the same may be found on the
premises, be liable to seizure for rent due from such tenant :"

And enacts in its eighth section that'Every landlord shall have a lien. upon the crops growing or grown upon the
demised premises in any year for rent that shall accrue for such year ;"

