496

PIATT'S ADMINISTRATOR V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

of Congress, or their committees, and n6t to those of any of

the executive departments. The section itself is its own
best interpreter. In view of the long supervision over the
botanic garden by the Library Committee, and of the previous legislation referred to, language could hardly be
plainer than that which it contains.
But there is additional evidence that this increase of salary
was intended to be confined to persons employed under the
immediate direction of the two Houses of Congress and their
committees, in the fact, that by a joint resolution of February 28th, 1867,* 20 per cent. was added to the salaries of all
employ6s of the several executive departments, including
the Department of Agriculture, for one year from and after
the 30th of June, 1866; and the claimant actually received
such addition accordingly. It is not reasonable to suppose
that Congress intended to single out this particular employ6
from all the government employ6s as alone entitled to a
double addition of 20 per cent. to his compensation, which
he certainly would receive for the year named, if his construction of the act of July 28th, 1866, is the correct one.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, and the cause remanded with directions to
DISMISS THE PETITION.

PIATT'S ADMINISTRATOR V. UNITED STATES.
Where a contractor has large claims on different accounts against the United
States, and the United States have a counter claim of fixed though of
much less amount against him, and arrest him and put him in jail, and
then by an act passed for his relief direct the accounting officers of the
government to "settle" his accounts on just and equitable principles,
giving all due weight and consideration to certain settlements and allowances already made, and to certain assurances and decisions of one of the
executive departments which the party alleged to have been made to
him, "provided that the sum allowed under the said assurances shall not
exceed the amount claimed by the United States and for which suits have
* 14 Stat. at Large, 569.

Oct. 1874.] PIATT'S ADMINISTRATOR V. UNITED STATES. 497
Statement of the case.
been commenced;" a settlement by the accounting officers and a reception by the party of the amount fixed will not, in the absence of words
to show that it is meant as a payment in full, prevent his recovering any
further balance due, and which the proviso in italics prevented the accounting officers of the government from allowing. The case distinguished from United States v. Child (12 Wallace, 232), and United States
v. Justice (14 Id. 535), and llason v. United States (17 Id. 70).

from the Court of Claims; the case being thus:
J. H. Piatt, on the 26th of January, 1814-during our
second war with Great Britain-by a written contract with
the then Secretary of War, General Armstrong, became a
contractor of supplies for the Northwestern Army for one
year, to begin on the lst.day of June, 1814, and end on the
31st day of May, 1815, at an average rate of twenty cents
the ration; and as the usage then was to make advances in
money to contractors, he retained in his hands, as an advance frofn the department, the balance of the commissariat
fund; which at the close of his engagements amounted to
$48,230.77.
On the 26th of January, 1814, when the contract was
made, the government was in good credit and paying its
debts in gold and silver. By the 1st of June following, when
it was to take effect, the gold and silver were exhausted,
and the government had resorted to treasury notes, which
passed at a discount. In the month of August, 1814, the
enemy captured Washington and burnt the capitol; an event
which assisted to depress the business of the country. All
the banks south and west of New York suspended specie
payments. The currency soon became the irredeemable
paper of State banks. Its value went down and the price
of produce went up, till supplies could not be had for less
than forty-five cents the ration.
By the 1st of January, 1815, after expending the balance
of the commissariat fund, and all other funds he had received, the United States owed him, for supplies already
delivered, a large sum of money, and his drafts on the
government lay under protest for the want of funds in the
treasury to pay them.
APPEAL

VOL. XXIX.

32

498

PIATT'S ADMINISTRATOR V. UNITED STATES.

[SUp. Ot.

Statement of the case.

In this condition of things, and in an exigent moment, on
the 26th of December, 1814-the army in the Northwest
being about to make a move-requisition was made on
him for a large further supply of rations. He went, on the
1st of January, 1815, to Washington, to lay matters before
the War Department; and, as the Court of Claims found as
facts of the case, "at a personal interview there with him, notified to Mr. Monroe, then Secretary of War, that he would
furnish no more rations under the contract. Secretary Monroe admitted to Piatt the inability of the government to
comply with the terms of the contract on their part, both as
to money already due, and as to money which might become due for future supplies. But the military exigency
then rendering it necessary that a large quantity of rations
should be furnished immediately for the Northwestern
Army, it was thereupon agreed by parol, between Piatt and
the secretary, that if Piatt would furnish the rations which
might be required, he should receive for them whatever
price they should be reasonably worth at the time and place
of delivery; and that the defendants, instead of paying as
required by the terms of the original contract, should defer
payment until such time or times as they should have the
requisite funds."
Under the parol agreement, Piatt furnished
and delivered to the government 73,007,010
rations, the reasonable value of which, at the
times and places at which they were furnished,
was 45 cents per ration, amounting in the
aggregate to .
$328,531 54.
But, on the settlement of Piatt's account at
the close of the war, the officers of the treasury, having no knowledge or evidence of the
parol agreement under which the rations were
furnished, allowed and paid to him only the
price designated in the original written contract, amounting in the aggregate to
148,791 87
.

And leaving due a balance of

.

$179,739 67

Oct. 1874.] PIATT'S ADMINISTRATOR

V. UNITED STATES.

499

Statement of the case.

Piatt performed, as be alleged, other valuable services for the government-transportation, &c., to friendly Indians and to distressed
refugees of Michigan-(confessedly outside of
those contemplated by either the original or
the parol agreement), to the value of
$63,620 48
In September, 1819, an action was brought by the United
States against him, and he was arrested on a capias ad respondendun for an alleged balance of $48,230.77, due from
him as commissary of subsistence. He now brought his
claim before Congress, but the Judiciary Committee of the
Senate reported against it. However, while the suit was
still pending, and he on bail, Congress (8th May, 1820)
passed a private.act for his relief, as follows:
"Be it enacted, That the proper accounting officers of the Treasury Department be, and they are hereby, authorized and required to settle the accounts of I. H. Piatt, including his accounts
for transportation,on just and equitable principles, giving all due
weight and consideration to the settlements and allowances already made, and to the assurances and decisions of the War
Department:
"Provided, That the sum allowed under the said assurances
shall not exceed the amount now claimed by the United States,
and for 'vhich suits have been commenced against the said
Piatt."
Under this act, the accounting officers of the treasury settled the accounts of Piatt thus:
1st. They allowed him a credit of $63,620.48 for the transportation, &c., furnished by him for the use of the Indians
and refugees, not embraced within either of the agreements
before described.
2d. They allowed him a credit upon a certain specified
portion of the rations delivered upon the parol agreement,
equal to the amount then claimed by the United States in
the suit against him, to wit, the sum of $48,230.77. The
credit was thus ascertained: They first estimated the rea
sonable value of the specific portion of the rations thus

500

PIATT'S ADMINISTRATOR V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

referred to; they then deducted therefrom the price per
ration already paid to him; and from the balance thus ascertained, they made a further deduction sufficient to reduce
the amount of the credit to the said sum of $48,230.77, as
required by the proviso to the act of Congress, mentioned
on the preceding page.
The allowance of the $48,230.77 which did not require
the payment of money, was passed to his credit, and the
action against him dismissed.
The $63,620.48 allowed for the transportation, &c., &c., to
the Indians and refugees was not paid, there having been
no appropriation applicable to that claim. Hlis creditors
became impatient and put him into prison; and he died in
the prison bounds in the city of Washington on the 12th of
February, 1822.
Congress subsequently (24th May,. 1824), passed an act,
making an appropriation for this last-mentioned account,
and there was paid under the act, to the administrator of
Piatt, the sum of $63,620.48, the same being for the transportation, &c., furnished to Indians and refugees, and not
for army supplies.
But the balance of his original claim under
the parol contract for
$179,739 67
having been reduced by only.
48,230 77
his administrator now alleged that his estate
was entitled to
$131,508 90
and for this sum filed a petition-the petition in the present
.case-in the Court of Claims.
The petition set out, with circumstance and color, a case
which, in its essence, was the same as above given; asid after
stating the interview with Mr. Monroe, and that Mr. Monroe admitted that the right of the United States to enforce
the original written contract had been forfeited by its failure
,to make payment according to its contract, and that Piatt
had a right to refuse to furnish rations under the call made
December 26th, 1814, alleged that Mr. Monroe had "appealed to him as a patriot not to desert his; country in that

Oct. 1874.]

PIATT's ADMINISTRATOR V. UNITED STATES.

501

Statement of the case.

day of its trial, assuring him that he should be fully indemnified, and should not be a loser." The petition then alleged that on the faith of these assurances he, Piatt, had
gone on and furnished the subsequently required rations to
the amount stated.
Though it did not seem to have been doubted that the
rations actually cost the amount claimed, the officers of the
treasury, feeling themselves bound only by what appeared
of record in the department, allowed in the settlement of
the account for rations furnished after the 1st day of January, 1815, no more than the originAl contract price per
ration. The petition then said:
"Under these circumstances Piatt brought his claim before
the Secretary of War, Mr. Crawford, who would have settled it
on the principles for which the said Piatt then contended, and
which your petitioner now claims to be legal and just, but that,
by reason of what he considered countervailing evidence, he had
doubts whether such assuranceshad ever been given."*
The Court of Claims, however, as already stated, found
as a fact of the case that they had been given.
Being equally divided upon the right of the claimant to
recover, the court could only give ajudgment proformd, a~d
for the purposes of an appeal to the Supreme Court, decided
accordingly as conclusions of law:
I. That the parol agreement entered into by Piatt and
Mr. Monroe, then Secretary of War, after the forfeiture and
abandon'ment of the original written contract, being a new
contract upon a new consideration was valid, and, under
such agreement, the government became indebted to Piatt
for the reasonable value of the rations furnished under it,
and for the balance of $131,508.90.
IL But that this action was barred by the allowance made
by the accountipg officers of the treasury under the private
act of May 8th, 1820, which must be construed to have been
intended by Congress as a settlement of all claims against
the defendants.
* See Reports of Senate Committee, April 5th, 1820, Doc. 102, p. 5.

502

PIATT's ADMINISTRATOR V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the contractor.

The petition was accordingly dismissed, and Piatt's ad
ministrator appealed, assigning this second conclusion of law
for error.
Messrs. William Johnson and Thomas Wilson, for the appellant:
. The act of 1820 cannot be, and never was intended by Congress to be, a settlement of all of Piatt's claims against the government, because1st. The proviso attached to the act limits the settlement,
prevents it from being full and complete, and prescribes a
narrower or smaller amount of relief than that of justice.
This takes the case out of decisions such as United States
v. Child, and similar cases which will doubtless be cited on
the other side. Where a settlement is made and a party
accepts payment under it, he is generally estopped to claim
more. And why? Because the arbitrators have taken into
consideration everything bearing on the case, and have
allowed it full weight. Thus, presumptively, the settlement
was fair. But when, by the very order of settlement, the
arbitrator is told, "Though 'the party may have a plain right
to such and such items of credit you must not allow them,"
clearly such a settlement is not made on a just principle,
and it ought not to estop further claim.
2d. The act does not say that what was to be done was
to be "in full payment," or "in fall satisfaction" of his
claim, and if the intention that it should be had existed, apt
words could have been used to declare it.
3d. The accounting officers of the treasury did not regard
the act in the way in which the government now regards it,
for they proceeded to state Piatt's accounts, and allowed him
in that statement the item of $63,620.48, while'the only relief which could have been afforded him under the act was
for the sum of $48,230.77, for which a suit had been brought.
4th. Upon the report of the accounting officers, the subsequent Congress appropriated and paid the above sum of
$63,620.48.
The intention of Congress in passing the act was appar-

Oct. 1874.]

PIATT'S ADMINISTRATOR V. UNITED STATES.

503

Argument for the contractor.

ently this: Congress knew that a balance stood on the books
of the treasury against Piatt for moneys due from him as an
officer; that a suit had been brought by the United States
to recover that balance; that he had been arrested, thrown
into prison, and was then on bail; that he alleged that on a
true statement of the accounts between him and the United
States, it would be shown that he was not indebted to the
United States, and that possibly the United States would be
found to be indebted to him. Congress, without expressing
any opinion upon the facts of the case, enacted that the accounting officers should settle his accounts "on just and
equitable principles, giving all due weight and consideration
to the settlements and allowances already made, and to the
assurances and decisions of the War Department;" and if,
upon the making of this settlement or statement it should
be found that Piatt was not indebted to the United States,
that there was enough coming to him upon these accounts,
"assurances," transportation, and the like, to offset the balance claimed from him in the suits commenced, then that
this balance should be cancelled and the suits dismissed and
he discharged from jail; but if these accounts should not be
sufficient to entirely offset this balance, then it should do so
pro tanlo, and upon payment of the remainder he should be
discharged from jail.
All question as to payment to him of other moneys which
he might claim was reserved for future consideration.
The purpose of Congress seems to have been much the
same as when it passed the act for the relief of William
Peck.* Peck was indebted to the United States, was sued,
judgment recovered against him, and he imprisoned for the
debt. Congress declared that he should be released from
imprisonment, provided, first, that he should assign all the
property "which he may now own or be entitled to" to the
United States; and second, that any property which he might
thereafter acquire should be liable to be taken.
On a question whether the debt was released by his dis* 6 Stat. at Large, 109.

504

PIATT's ADMINISTRATOR V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the United States.

charge from imprisonment, this court, in Hunter v. United
States,* says:
"From this proviso it clearly appears that the release from
imprisonment was the dnly object of the statute, and a proper
construction of it does not release the judgment."
II. The circumstances in which Piatt was placed at this time
prevent any such legal effect, even if the intention were clearly expressed in the act.
From the facts, as admitted or found, it is plain thaf, instead of Piatt being indebted to the United States in the
sum of $48,230.77, for which he had been sued, the United
States was indebted to him in the two sums of $63,620.48
and $131,508.90. Instead of being the debtor, he was the
creditor. Instead of his owing the United States, the United
States owed him; and instead of the suit being" The United
Slates v. Platt," it might properly have been "Piatt v. The
United States."
These were the circumstances under which the act of
1820 was passed.
Now when a debtor, being a powerful party, on a false
allegation of the state of accounts between him and his
creditor, arrests that creditor, and throws him into jail, and
then, while his creditor is thus illegally imprisoned, offers
him a settlement which the creditor accepts in order to be
released, such settlement, so made, is surely of no binding
force as a settlement, however definitely or plainly it may
have been stipulated and agreed upon.t
Mr. G. H. Williams, Attorney- General, and Mr. John Goforth, Assistant Attorney-General, contra:
Piatt's claim was in dispute. Mr. Crawford doubted the
alleged assurances of Mr. Monroe. Piatt could not get the
claim allowed.
Being under arrest, the act of May 8th, 1820, was passed,
* 5 Peters, 185.

j- Brown v. Pierce, 7 Wallace, 214; United.States, Lyon, et al. v. Huck
abee, 16 Id. 431.

Oct. 1874.]

PIATT'S ADMINISTRATOR V. UNITED STATES.

505

Opinion of the court.

requiring the officers of the treasury to "1settle his accounts,"
including his accounts for transportation.
The word settle has an established legal meaning, and
implies the mutual adjustment of accounts between different
parties, and an agreement upon the balance.*
There was no limit to any claim he might make except
the one upon the assurances. All the accounts between the

government and himself-all things in dispute-were meant,
it is obvious, to be included in the reference to the accounting officers and settled.
Piatt went before the accounting officers and presented
his proofs, and made his claims much in excess of the
amount awarded him. The settlement was made upon
proofs; as to the assurances he was allowed $48,230.77, all
that under the act could be allowed.
As to the assurances, the sum of $48,230.77 was paid by
passing the. amount to his credit and so balancing his debt.
A further sum of $63,620.48 was found to be due him, for
transportation of friendly Indians and refugees. lHe accepted these settlements without protest.
The $63,620.48 was paid by an appropriation, made by
Congress A.D. 1824.

An allowance by the legislature in full, when accepted
by a claimant, is an estoppel of further claim.t

That the

claimant has no other remedy at the time does not affect the
question.

This appears to be settled by the case of Mason

v. United Slates,j in this court, and by other cases here.ยง
No compulsion was exercised over Piatt at any stage Qf

the proceedings.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Attempt is made, chiefly on two grounds, to vindicate the
conclusion of the Court of Claims, that the cause of action
Baxter v. Wisconsin, 9 Wisconsin, 44; see also 11 Alabama, 419.
Sholes v. The State, 2 Chandler, 182; Calkins v. The State, 13 Wiscon$ 17 Wallace, 76.
sin, 389.
United States v. Child et al, 12 Wallace, 232; United States v. Justice,
14 Id. 535.
*

f

506

PIATT'S ADMINISTRATOR V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

is barred by the allowance reported by the accounting officers of the treasury. The grounds are:
(1.) That the auditor passed to the credit of the deceased
claimant the amount claimed by the United States as due
from him as commissary of subsistence, and that he, the
claimant, accepted the settlement without protest.
(2.) That Congress intended by the act directing the adjustment of his accounts that the settlement should be final
and conclusive; that the act was in the nature of an offer
for a disputed claim, and that the acceptance of the adjust.,
ment is a bar to the claim.
1.Verbal agreements between the parties to a written contract made before or at the time of the execution of the contract are, in general, inadmissible to vary its terms or to
affect its construction, as all such agreements are considered
as merged in the written contract. Both parties admit that
proposition, nor is it denied by the defendants that oral
agreements subsequently made, on a new and valuable consideration, before the breach of the contract, may have the
effect to enlarge the time of performance of the contract, if
it is not one within the statute of frauds, or that such an
oral agreement may have the effect to vary any of the terms
of the written contract or to waive or discharge it altogether.
Exceptions, it is everywhere admitted, exist to the rule
that parol evidence is not admissible to contradict or vary
the terms of a written instrument. Most of such exceptions
are enumerated by Mr. Greenleaf, and in the course of that
enumeration he says: "Neither is the rule infringed by 'the
admission of oral evidence to prove a nezo and distinct agreement upon a new consideration, whether it be as a substitute
for the old or in addition to and beyond it; and if subsequent and involving the same subject-matter it is immaterial
whether the new agreement be entirely oral or whether it
refers to and partially or totally adopts the provisions of the
written contract, provided the old agreement be rescinded
and abandoned."*
303; 2 Taylor on Evidence,
* 1 Greenleaf on Evidence, 12th edition,
6th edition, 1044; Goss v. Nugent, 5 Barnewall & Adolphus, 65; Nelson

Oct. 1874.] PIATT'S ADMINISTRATOR V. UNITED STATES. 507
Opinion of the court.

Sufficient appears in the very nature of the new arrangement to show that the promise of the United States was
made upon a good and valid consideration, as nothing is
better settled than the rule that if there is a benefit to the
defendant and a loss to the plaifitiff consequent upon and
directly resulting from the defendant's promise in behalf of
the plaintiff; there is a sufficient consideration moving from
the plaintiff to enable the latter to maintain an action upon
the promise to recover compensation.*
Other authorities state the rule much stronger, authorizing
the conclusion that benefit to the party by whom the promise
is made, or to a third person at his instance, or damage sustained at the instance of the party promising by the party
in whose favor the promise is made is sufficient to constitute
a good and valuable consideration for the support of an action of assumpsit.t
Modern authorities supporting the proposition that parol
evidence is admissible to prove such a new agreement, under
the circumstances disclosed in this case, are very numerous
and are quite sufficient to show that the proposition may be
regarded as an established rule of decision.1
Apply that rule to the case and it is quite clear that the
whole amount claimed by the plaintiff was due to the deceased claimant at the time his accounts were adjusted by
the accounting officers of the treasury in addition to the
amount claimed by the United States in set-off for balance
due from him as commissary of subsistence. Well-founded
doubt upon that subject cannot be entertained, as it satisfactorily appears that in order to reduce his claim to an
amount not exceeding the claim of the United States, those
v. Boynton, 3 Metcalf, 400; Leonard -v. Vredenburgh, 8 Johnson, 39; Marshall v. Lynn, 6 Meeson & Welsby, 109; Stead v. Dawber, 10 Adolphus &
Ellis, 57; Stowell v. Robinson, 3 Bingham's New Cases, 927.
* 1 Parsons on Contracts, 6th edition, 431.
t Violett v. Stettinius, 5 Cranch, 150; Chitty on Contracts, 28 ; Townsley
v. Snmrall, 2 Peters, 182.
$ Cummings v. Arnold, 3 Metcalf, 489 ; Bank v. Woodward, 5 New Hampshire, 99; Blood v. Goodrich, 9 Wendell, 75; Lindley v. Lacey, 17 Common
Bench, New Series, 584.

508

PIATT'S ADMINISTRATOR V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

officers found it necessary to deduct from the aggregate
estimate of the value of the rations furnished under the
parol agreement, an amount exactly equal to the balance
found due to the claimant by the subordinate court from
whose judgment the appeal is prosecuted in this case.
Nothing was paid to the claimant under that private act
except what was allowed to the claimant for services and
expenses in furnishing transportation and rations for the use
of Indians and indigent citizens. He was discharged from
arrest and the balance due from him to the United States
for the moneys in his hands as commissary of subsistence
was als3 discharged, but nothing was paid to him for the
large balance now found to be due by the court below. Argument to show that such a settlement is not a bar to the
residue of the claim is unnecessary, as the proposition is
utterly destitute of merit and repugnant to the plainest dictates both of law and justice.
2. Opposed to that is the suggestion, in behalf of the
United States, that the act of Congress was in the nature of
an offer of compromise, and that the acceptance of the adjustment is a bar to the claim.
Support to that proposition is attempted to be drawn from
the decision of this court in the case of .iason v. United
States,* but the court here is very clearly of the opinion that
the case cited affords no countenance whatever to any such
conclusion. Muskets were wanted by the United States in
that case, and it appears that the plaintiff in that controversy
contracted to manufacture and deliver at a specified time
large quantities of such arms at the price specified in the
contract. Arms of the kind were delivered and paid for,
and the plaintiff was notified by order of the Secretary of
War that a larger quantity would be received. Preparatious were accordingly made by the plaintiff to fill the second
order, but the Secretary of War subsequently appointed a
special commission to audit and adjust all such orders and
claims. They reported that the contract should be con* 17 Wallace, 70.

Oct 1874.] PIATT'S ADMINISTRATOR V. UNITED STATES. 509
Opinion of the court.

firmed to a certain extent upon the condition that the contractor should, within fifteen days after notice of their decision, execute a bond, with good and sufficient sureties, for
the performance of the modified contract, and the case shows
that he executed the modified contract and gave the required
bond. By that contract he engaged to manufacture thirty
thousand muskets, and the finding of the subordinate court
showed that the contract was fulfilled by both parties.
What the court decided in that case was that the claimant
voluntarily accepted the modification of the contract as suggested by the oommissioners and that he executed the new
contract in the place of the one superseded, which new contract he must have understood 'was intended to define the
obligations of all concerned. Beyond all doubt the new
contract in that case was substituted for the old one, and
the court held that no party, after accepting such a compromise and executing such a discharge, could be justified
in claiming damages for a breach of the prior contract which
had been voluntarily modified and surrendered.
Other cases to the same effect have been decided by this
court.* ione of those cases, however, proceed upon the
ground that such a commission possesses any judicial power
to bind the parties by their decision or to give the decision
any conclusive effect. Claimants in -such cases may appear
before the commission or not, as they choose, but the decision is, if they do appear and accept the terms awarded as
a final settlement of the controversy, without protest, they
must be understood as having precluded themselves from
further claim and litigation.
Where a party accepts the amount awarded in such a case
it is just to conclude that he acquiesces in the decision of
the tribunal by which a part of the claim is rejected as well
as in the finding in his favor, but the accounting officers in
this case were forbidden by law to allow the claimant anything beyond the amount in his hands as coiamissary of
subsistence, and they obeyed the directions given in the act
* United States v. Child, 12 Wallace, 232; United States v. Justice, 14
Id. 535.

510

PIATT'S ADMINISTRATOR V. UNITED STATES.

[SUp. Ct.

Opinion of Bradley, Swayne, Davis, and Hunt, JJ., dissenting.

of Congress. Manifestly the claimant had no option upon
the subject, and in the opinion of the court it would be an
unreasonable construction of the act of Congress to suppose
that its framers intended that the claimant should relinquish
the large talance found to be due him in consideration of
his discharge from arrest and the discontinuance of the suit
against him for the recovery of the amount due from him
to the United States.
Certain cases from the State reports are referred to which
it is supposed assert a different rule, but the court here is
of a different opinion.*
Suffice it to say that in the case before the court no appropriation whatever was made in favor of the claimant.
Where the claim is disputed and an appropriation is made
in favor of the claimant for an amount less than the amount
claimed, and appropriation purports to be in full payment
of the demand, the rule may be different, but it is sufficient
to say in response to those authorities that nothing was appropriated in this case, and the accounting officers of the
treasury were forbidden to allow anything beyond what was
involved in the pending suit against the claimant.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and the cause remanded with in-

structions to render JUDGMENT IN FAVOR OF THE PETITIONER
for $131,508.90, the ainount found to be due him in the
findings of the Court of Claims.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY, with whom concurred Justices
SWAYNE, DAVIS, and HUNT, dissenting:
I dissent from the judgment of the court in this case. In
my view the case was decided and settled more than fifty
years ago. The claim cannot be established without opening that settlement, and declaring that a valid contract was
made which had been decided not to be a valid contract,
but only a mere claim for some equitable allowance which
was in fact made and accepted at that time.
Sholes v. State, 2 Chandler, 182; Baxter v. State, 9 Wisconsin, 44;
Calkins v. State, 13 Id. 389.

Oct. 1874.]

PIATT'S ADMINISTRATOR V. UNITED STATES.

.511

Opinion of Bradley, Swayne, Davis, and Hunt, JJ., dissenting.

Piatt, the original claimant, was an army contractor in
the Northwest during the war of 1812. Becoming embarrassed by not receiving funds from the government, and
from the great rise in the prices of provisions, he threatened
to throw up his contract; but, the allegation is, that at the
request of Mr. Monroe, then acting Secretary of War, and
upon his assurances that he should not be the loser, he went
on, and furnished supplies to a large amount. For these
supplies he claimed a large allowance beyond the amount
stipulated in his contract. The petition, after alleging that
the officers of the treasury, feeling themselves bound only
by what appeared of record in the department, allowed to
Piatt, in the settlement of his account for rations furnished
after the first day of January, 1815, no more than the orig-

inal contract price per ration, states further that Piatt then
brought his claim before the Secretary of War, Mr. Crawford, who would have settled it on the principles for which
Piatt then contended, "but that, by reason of what he considered countervailing evidence, he had doubts whether such
assurances had ever been given."
Thus it is seen that there were two sides to the question
at that early day, when all the events were fresh, and when
Mr. Monroe was living at the seat of government, and accessible at any moment.
In 1820, Piatt was arrested for $48,230.77, the balance
found due to the government in his accounts, as ascertained
by the settlement at the department." He then brought his
claim before Congress, and the Judiciary Committee of the
Senate reported adversely thereto. But on the 8th of May
an act was passed for his relief.*
Thereupon his accounts were restated under the provisions of the act; and the officers of the department, after
allowing him the sum of $63,620.48 for provisions furnished
to friendly Indians and to distressed settlers of Michigan
(which was entirely outside of his contract, and was afterwards paid in full), allowed him a credit on the footing of
*

See it set out, supra, p. 499.-REP.

512

PIATT'S ADMINISTRATOR V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Brad~ley, Swayne, Davis, and Hunt, JJ., dissenting.

the assurances of Mr. Monroe for $48,230.77, the full amount
of the claim for which he had been arrested. He was thereupon discharged from custody on the 25th of July, 1820,
and died in February, 1822. The present claim is prosecuted by his representatives.
Upon these facts it seems difficult to resist the conviction
that, in the contemplation of both parties (Piatt and the
government), this case was then and there forever ended
and determined. Between individuals it must necessarily
have been so. Had such a disputed and doubtful clain
been held by one man against another, and left to arbitration, subject to the condition that no sum should be awarded
beyond a certain amount, and had that amount been awarded
and accepted, can there be a doubt that the award would
have been binding and conclusive? I think not.
The present case is stronger. Congress proposed to allow
IPiatt a settlement of his claim by the Treasury Department,
in which due weight and consideration should be given to
the assurances in question, provided that the sum allowed
under them should not exceed the amount claimed by the
United States against him, and for which suit had been commenced. He accepted the law, bad the benefit of the settlement, and was allowed under the assurances the amount
named, which justly cancelled the debt for which he was
sued and arrested by the government. Thereupon he was
discharged. The declaration of Congress thus made binding by the acts of the party that nothing should be allowed
against the government on that claim beyond a certain
amount named, was equivalent to a solemn adjudication. It
amounted to a declaration of the government that it would
not suffer itself to be pursued or molested for a greater sum.
Can'it now be contended that the act of 1855 constituting
the Court of Claims, and allowing suits to be brought against
the government on contracts made with it, has opened this
adjudication-this settlement and determination of the case?
In my judgment, certainly not. The act constituting the
Court of Claims was not intended to disturb past adjudica-

Oct. 1874.]

ROBINSON V. ELLIOTT.

513

Syllabus.

tions and settlements, and to open afresh claims that had
been disposed of. The Court of Claims had no right to go
behind the final settlement, and attempt to establish the
original facts of the case. Its findings of fact, in this respect, were illegal and void. The government has never
consented to be sued on this claim, or on any claims similarly situated.
The conclusion of law to which the court came, I think,
was correct, and the decree should be affirmed.

ROBINSON ET AL. V. ELLIOTT.
1. Under the Statute of Frauds in Indiana, which enacts in
"SECTION 10. That no assignment of goods bywayof mortgage shall bevalid
against any other person than the parties thereto, when such goods are not delivered to the mortgagee, or assignee, and retained by him, unless such assignment or mortgage shall be duly recorded-"
And in
"SE cTION 21. That the question of fraudulent intent in All cases shall be
deemed a question of fact-"

A mortgagor of chattels personal may, if the transaction be fair and the
mortgage made by him be duly recorded, retain possession of personal
chattels.
2. But the effect of the statute is not to make every recorded mortgage,
which prior to the statute would have been held fraudulent in law,
pjrsim, facie valid.
3. The recording of the mortgage contemplated by the statute was meant as
a substitute for possession, but was not meant to protect a mortgage from
all illegal stipulations contained in it.
4. Hence, where a trading firm in a city in Illinois owing money evidenced
by a series of notes, coming due from time to time for some months in
advance, made a mortgage of their stock of goods, the mortgage containing this clause:
"And it is hereby expressly agreed, that until default shall be made in the
payment of some one of said notes, or some paper in renewal thereof, the parties
of the first part may remain in possession of said goods, wares, and merchandise,
and may sell the same as heretofore, and supply their places with other goods,
and the goods substituted by purchase for those sold shall, upon being put into
said store, or any other store in said city where the same may be put forsale by
said parties of the first part, be subjected to the lien of this mortgage-"
VOL. X

1.

33

