Oct. 1874.]

STEPHEN V. BEALL.
Syllabus.

This ends the case. With the lost files in the record, we
should see that the court had the right to permit the parties
to litigate before it as they did.
There is here no question of a restoration of lost records.
This record has never been lost. It was not made until
after the fire. The litigation was pending when that calamity occurred. What has been lost is part of the files which,
when the time arrived to make up a record, would have
been incorporated into it. What we have to consider is
whether in the record as made their loss has been supplied.
We think it has by the recorded acts of the parties and their
stipulation.
JUDGMENT

AFFIRMED.

STEPHEN V. BEALL ET UX.
1. Where one of four joint tenants makes a deed of trust (a mortgage) of
land conveyed to the four-the deed of trust purporting to convey the
whole estate-it is not necessary, on a bill filed to have the land sold
under the deed of trust (in other words, to foreclose the mortgage), to
make the three who do not convey parties defendant to the bill.
2. It is settled doctrine that a married woman may charge her separate
property for the payment of her husband's debt, by any instrument in
writing in which she in terms plainly shows her purpose so to charge
it; she describing the property specifically and executing the instrument of charge in the manner required by law.
3. Though equity will enforce in the most rigid manner good faith on the
part of a trustee, and vigilantly watch any acquisition by him in his
individual character, of property which has ever been the subject of his
trust, yet where he has sold the trust property to another, that sale
having been judicially confirmed after opposition by the cestui que irust,
the fact that thirteen years afterwards he bought the property from the
person to whom he once sold it does not, of necessity, vitiate his purchase. The question in such a case becomes one of actual fraud. And
where on a bill charging fraud, the answer denies it in the fullest manner, alleging a purchase bonifide and for full value paid, and that when
he, the trustee, made the sale to the person from whom he has since
bought it, the purchase by himself, now called in question, was not
thought of either by himself or his vendee-the court will not decree
the purchase fraudulent, the case being heard on the pleadings, and
without any proofs taken.

STEPHEN V. BEALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
4. The complainants in this case, who alleged fraud and relied on the trustee's possession of the trust property after an alleged sale of it, as evidence of it, not stating when the trustee came into possession-that is to
say, how soon after his former sale-the court assumed the timte to be
thirteen years; this term having elapsed between the date of the sale by
the trustee and the filing of the bill (or cross-bill, rather) to set it aside;
the court acting on the presumption that the complainant stated the
case as favorably as he could for himself, and would have mentioned the fact that the trustee had been in possession long before the
bill was filed, if he had really been so.
APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia; the case being thus:
In the year 1849, by deed of bargain and sale, all in
technical form, one Colburn conveyed to Mrs. Mary Bell
and to her three children, John, Sarah, and Maria, by name.
a piece of ground described, in the District of Columbia,
with the appurtenances; the grant being "unto the said
Mary, John, Sarah, and Maria, their heirs and assigns forever; to have and to hold the said described land and premises with the appurtenances unto them the said Mary (the
mother), John, Sarah, and Maria, their heirs and assigns
forever, to them and their sole use, benefit and behoof forever."
The mother subsequently married a man named Beall,
and so became Mrs. Mary Beall.
In this state of things, the estate of one Magruder, in
Maryland, being about to be sold by a certain Stephen, as
trustee, under a decree of court there, Beall bought it, for
$10,100, and in pursuance of the terms of sale as prescribed
by the decree, paid to Stephen, the trustee, $1000 in cash,
and gave to him his three notes, each for $3033.33 , secured
by a deed executed by himself and wife, all with recitals of
its history and purpose and with everything in or about it,
in form, purporting to convey the whole of the tract of land
which Colburn in 1849 had conveyed to her the said Mrs.
Beall (while bearing the name of Bell), and to her three
children. The children were not parties to the deed of
trust.
The order of court for the sale of Magruder's property

Oct. 1874.]

STEPHEN

v. BEALL.

Statement of the case.

directed that a deed should be given by Stephen, the trustee, only on the payment by the purchaser of all the purchase-money.
Beall, the husband, did not pay his three notes, and a
resale by Stephen of the original property was directed by
the court having jurisdiction of the matter. The proceeds
were directed to be applied to discharge the three notes, and
any surplus was to be paid to Beall. A resale by public
auction was accordingly made on the 5th of May, 1859; the
purchaser being one Crowley. The price, however, thus
obtained was but $6478, thus leaving a debt due by Beall
of $2622, exclusive of interest. The resale was reported to
the court and was confirmed by it, after an opposition to it
by Beall. To get satisfaction for the deficit of $2622 and
interest Stephen, the trustee, now, June, 1871, filed a bill in
the court below against Mr. and Mrs. Beall, praying an
account of what was due to him on the notes and a sale of
the property which had been conveyed to him by Mr. and
Mrs. Beall in the deed of trust, or of so much of it as would
satisfy what should be found due.
Mr. and Mrs. Beall answered. They set up that at the
time of the execution of the deed of trust, the title to the
lot was in Mrs. Beall (then Mrs. Bell), "jointly with her
children," naming them; and "submitted that the lot could
not now be sold without affecting their rights."
They submitted further, that Mrs. Beall could neither at
law nor in equity pledge her separate estate for the payment
of her husband's debt.
On a cross-bill filed by them, they averred that when the
sale was made by Stephen as trustee, to Beall, Stephen misrepresented the value of the property, much exaggerating it,
and promised to execute a valid deed to Beall for it, on receiving the $1000 and the.notes.
They averred further, that Stephen was now in possession
of the land of Magruder said to have been resold to Crowley; that the said resale was really made for Stephen, the
trustee; and fraudulent, as being a purchase made by a
trustee at his own sale. They did not in this cross-bill state

882

STEPHEN v. BEALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of dismissal.-Want of parties.

when Stephen came into possession of the property once
held by him in trust, nor state any other thing to show how
long after the "resale" it was. The cross-bill itself was
sworn to February 28th, 1872.
Stephen, in answer to this cross-bill, denying his promise
to execute any deed before the full purchase-money was
actually paid, admitted that he was in possession of the land
resold, but averred that the resale to Crowley was a bond

fide sale; and that he Stephen was in possession by a bond
fide purchase from Crowley, and for full consideration which
had been paid by him. He denied all fraud in the said purchase by Crowley on the resale, and in his own purchase,
and averred that his own purchase from Crowley was not
thought of by either himself or Crowley, until after Crowley's purchase had been made; and, of course, that it was
made without any fraudulent combination with Crowley.
But he did not state the date when he came into possession
of the property on his alleged purchase from Crowley.
No proofs being made, the case was heard on the pleadings.
The court below dismissed the bill, and Stephen appealed.
Mr. B. T. Merrick, for Mr. and Mrs. Beall, and in support
of the decree below:
The bill was rightly dismissed, and this for several reasons:
1. It wanted necessary parties. The lot conveyed by Mr.
and Mrs. Beall, had been conveyed to the latter (before her
marriage with Beall) and to her children. The law of the
District of Columbia, as it stood prior to 1857, was the old
law of Maryland, which after the creation of the District
still remained. By that law a joint tenancy was created.
Every party was seized per my and per tout, as the old terms
are; that is to say of the whole and of part. A conveyance
by the mother though it may not have made a good title for
the whole, did affect the whole. A sale under the deed of
trust would have cast a cloud on the title of the children,
and they should have been brought in, and if any decree

Oct. 1874.]

STEPHEN

v.

BEALL.

Argument in support of the dismissal.-Fraud.

of sale was made it should have been with reference to their
rights.
If the interest of the defendant requires the presence of
new parties, he takes the objection of non-joinder, and the
complainant is forced to amend, or his bill will be dismissed.*
2. The debt sought to be secured was the individual debt
of the husband, Beall, and it was not competent for the wife,
under the policy of the law made for her protection and
under the provisions of the deed or deeds by which she held
the property in connection with her children, to incumber
that property for the security of her husband's debts. Seffey
v. Sleffey, in the Court of Appeals of Maryland,t and Central Bank of Frederick v. Copeland,T in the same court seem
to show this.
3. That the price which Beall agreed to pay for the property was wholly excessive, is proved by what it brought on
the resale; and that Stephen did promise to make a conveyance in fee simple to Beall, as soon as he got the money
and secured notes, can hardly be doubted in view of the
payment which the latter made of $1000 in money, and of
the deed of trust given on his wife's estate.
Mhy take
cash and a security on a new estate, while the complete title
in the old one is retained? If a deed in fee simple was not
promised and intended, then this taking of cumulated securities shows that Stephen knew that the property had
been sold to Beall at a grossly exaggerated value, and renders
the allegation of fraud in this particular, as alleged in the
cross-bill, the more probable.
But the great objection to the complainant's case, the
vulnus irnnedicabile, remains. No doctrine is better settled
in equity-none more wisely settled, or upon foundation
more deeply laid in morality and in the admitted frailty
of human nature-than that a trustee shall not purchase at
his own sale. No contrivances, no indirections, will save
* Shields v. Barrow, 17 Howard, 145; Daniell's Chancery Practice, p. 240;

note citing numerous cases.
t- 19 Maryland, 5.

18 Id. 305.

STEPHEN V. BEALL.

[Sup. Or..

Argument in support of the dismissal.-Fraud.

him when he has done so. The intervention of third parties so far from assisting him does but make his case worse,
since the intervention of others shows his consciousness of
guilt.
It is here admitted that the trustee is in possession of the
property which he professed to sell, or rather to resell. At
what date he sold it we know. At what date he came into
possession of it is a matter not at all disclosed. He may
have come into possession at on6e. In such a case undoubtedly his possession would be convincing proof of a bad purpose when he made the sale. And his omission to state, in
any way, in his answer to the cross-bill, when he did come
into possession, so that a chancellor may see how soon, or
how long after the sale, it was, infers as a necessity the conclusion that his possession followed hard upon his sale.
The court should perhaps put what Chancellor Kent calls
the "sting of disability" into any such doings by a trustee,
as ever getting into possession of property once sold by him
in a fiduciary character. Such a rule is a safe rule, and the
only safe iule.
But if a long lapse of time will repel all presumption of
fraud, then certainly it lies upon a trustee to state clearly and
to show that a long lapse of time has intervened. In this case
the admitted possession by Stephen, as an individual, of the
property sold by him as a trustee, puts upon him the burden
of proof, even if the proof be nothing but his own answer.
That proof he can surely give. The time when he came
into possession is matter peculiarly within his own knowledge; and when, on that subject, he keeps silence, he is
entitled to no favorable presumption. Those calling him to
an account are entitled to every such; for it may well be
that they don't know When he made his purchase.
It is not enough that he state that there was no fraud.
Whether there was fraud or not may be a question of law.
He swears therefore to matter of law. Let him state and
swear to dates, and the court will decide whether there was
or was not fraud.
Mr. T. T. Grittenden, contra,for Stephen, the appellant.

Oct. 1874.]

STEPHEN V. BEALL.
Opinion of the court.-Parties.

Mr. Justice HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The counsel for the appellee sustains the decree below
dismissing the bill upon three grounds: 1st. Because the
complainant failed to join the necessary parties defendant.
2d. Because a wife could not, at the date of the deed in
question from Mrs. Beall, incumber her estate for the benefit
of her husband. 3d. Because the complainant acted in bad
faith.
We will consider the different grounds in their order.
1. As to the necessity of further parties defendant.
Mrs. Beall was the owner of one-fourth of the property
referred to, and no more. This one-fburth she could convey, and no more. Whether the terms of her deed purported to convey this portion only, or the whole, is not important. She could not convey the remaining three-fourths,
nor could the general language of her deed create a cloud
upon the title of her children. The record showed exactly
what title she had, and exactly what title the children had.
No relief was asked against the children, and no claim made
by the trustees that their rights were affected by the deed
of their mother. The bill was filed against Mrs. Beall and
her husband only, and judgment only asked against them.
No judgment could be taken against the children or that
would affect their estate, nor would a sale of their interest
have any legal effect.*
. If the grantees were tenants in common, it is not denied
that Mrs. Beall could convey her portion or interest without
affecting the rights of her cotenants, and that her deed in
this case would effect that purpose. It is said, however,
that as the law of Maryland stood in 1801, and was thence
carried into the District of Columbia, the conveyance to
Mrs. Beall and her children created a joint ten'acy, and
that being a joint tenant, her conveyance in 1857 did not
bind her interest only, but affected, also, that of her cotenants.
* Ward v. Dewey, 16 New York, 519; Heywood v. City of Buffalo, 14 Id.
534; Cox v. Clift, 2 Comstock, 118; Story's Equity, 700.

STEPHEN V. BEALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Parties.

We cannot recognize this conclusion. We find the law
on this point thus laid down, in Coke Littleton and in
Bacon's Abridgment:
"If there be three joint tenants and one aliens his part,
the other two are joint tenants of their parts that remain,
and hold them in common with the alienee."*
"If one joint tenant bargains and sells his moiety, and
dies before the deed is enrolled, yet the deed, being afterwards enrolled, shall work a severance ab initio, and support,
by relation, the interest of the bargainee. But if one joint
tenant bargains and sells all the lands, and before enrollment the other dies, his part shall survive, for the freehold
not being out of him the jointure remains, and though afterwards the deed is enrolled, yet only a moiety shall pass, for
the enrollment by relation cannot make the grant of any
better effect than it would have been if it had taken effect
immediately."t
It is laid down in the same authorities that if one joint
tenant agree to alien, but do not, and die, this will not sever
the joint tenancy, nor bind the survivor. But it is held in
Hinton v. .inton,, that in equity it may be enforced if the
articles amount to an equitable severance of the jointure.
We think it clear upon these authorities that the attempted conveyance by Mrs. Beall of the entire premises
had no effect upon the interest of her cotenants, conceding
them to have been joint tenants. The law is well settled
that no cloud is cast upon a title by a proceeding or claim,
where the record through which title is to be made shows a
defence to the claim.ยง It would not be proper under such
circumstances that the children should be parties defendants.11
* Coke Littleton, 189; Bacon's Abridgment, title "Joint Tenants," E.

t Coke Littleton, 186, 186a; Bacon's Abridgment, title "Joint Tenant,"
1,3.
$ 2 Vesey, 634.
SWard a. Dewey, 16 New York, 519; Heywood v. City of Buffalo, 14 Id.
534; Cox v. Clift, 2 Comstock, 118; Story's Equity, 700.
1 See Reed v. Vanderheyden, 5 Cowen, 719; Bailey v. Inglee, 2 Paige, 278

Oct. 1874.]

STEPHEN

v.

BEALL.

Opinion of the court.-Wife's power to charge her property.

We dismiss, then, as unfounded the argument of a want
of parties defendant.
2. The dismissal of the bill is defended upon the further
ground that the debt sought to be secured is the debt of the
husband, and that it was not competent for the wife to incumber her individual property to secure her husband's
debts.
In support of this argument Steffy v. Steffy,* in the Court
of Appeals of Maryland, is cited; but that case does not bear
upon the question. That was not the case of an attei-hpt to
incumber the separate property of the wife for the debt of
the husband. It was a case in which both husband and
wife had joined in an agreement to sel] the lands of the wife.
Upon a bill for specific performance the interest of the husband was adjudged to be bound, but the execution of a contract simply was held to be inoperative to convey the estate
of or to bind the married woman under the statutes of
Maryland.
Nor is The Ce tral Bank of Frederick v. Copelandt in the
same court, and also cited, an authority to the point insisted
upon. It was there held that a mortgage by a wife for her
husband's debts, obtained from her by threats, and the exercise by the husband of an authority so excessive as to subjugate her will, was not binding upon her.
There is nothing in these authorities to indicate that the
law of Maryland or of the District of Columbia on this subject is in any respect peculiar. The case rests upon and
must be governed by the general principles applicable to the
subject.
As to a wife's individual property generally, it is well
settled that she may, by joining in a deed with her husband,
convey any interest she has in real estate. Such a deed
conveys the interest of both.
The doctrine that a married woman has the power to
charge her separate estate with the payment of her husband's
19 Maryland, 5.
1 Washburn on Real Property, *280.
VOL. XXII.

22

t 18 Id. 805.

STEPHEN V. BEALL.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.-Fraud.

debts, or any other debt contracted by her as principal or as
surety, has been uniformly sustained for a. long period of
time.*
The question has been in respect to the manner in which
the conceded power should be'exercised, and in respect to
the requisite evidence of its due execution. Whether the
simple execution of an obligation by a married woman operates to charge her estate, or whether she must declare such
to be her intention ; whether an oral statement of such intention is sufficient, or whether it must be in writing;
whether such intention must be manifested in the contract
itself or may be separately manifested; whether a declaration of an intention to bind her separate property is sufficient, or whether the property intended to be charged
must be specifically described, have been the subject of discussion at different times. But that a married woman, by
an instrument in writing by which she expressly charges
her separate property for the payment of a debt, which
charge is contained in the instrument creating the debt, and
where the property is specifically described, and which instrument is executed in the maner required by law, may
create a valid charge upon such property, is agreed in all
the books.
The instrument before us contains all these requisites,
and we cannot doubt its validity. Whether the property is
her separate estate or her individual property merely, the
result is the same.
3. It was farther contended that the bad faith of the complainant should bar his recovery.
The defendants in a cross-bill allege fraud in the original
sale to Mr. Beall, in that the complainant deceived and defrauded them by promising to execute a deed of the Magruder property, as soon as they made the purchase, and
* Hulme v. Tenant, 1 Brown's Chancery Cases, 16; Standford v. Marshall, 2 Atkyns, 69; Bullpin v. Clarke, 17 Vesey, 365 ; Jaques v.- Methodist
Episcopal Church, 17 Johnson, 548; Yale v. Dederer, 22 New York, 450;
Same Case, 18 Id. 276; Corn Exchange Insurance Co. v. Babcock, 42 Id.
615; Story's Equity, 1396, 1401a.

Oct. 1874.]

OSTEPHEN V.

BEALL.

.339

Opinion of the court.-Fraud.

by misrepresentations of the value of the land. This is denied by the complainant in his answer to the cross-bili. It
will be remembered also that the order of sale expressly
prohibited the giving a deed until the whole purchase-money
should be paid. Fraud is alleged again in that the purchase
by Crowley at the resale was for the benefit of Stephen, the
complainant, upon an agreement that the property should
be transferred to him, and that the same had been conveyed
to him. All fraud is denied in the answer. The alleged
agreement or understanding between Orowley and the complainant Stephen is denied in all its parts. It is admitted
by Stephen that subsequently, without any previous understanding, and in good faith, and for a fair price paid, the
complainant purchased of Crowley the property bought by
him at the resale. The interval between the purchase by
Crowley at the resale and the purchase from him by the
complainant does not appear. Orowley's purchase was made
iu May, 1859. In February, 1872, thirteen years having
elapsed, it is alleged and admitted that a conveyance had
been made by Crowley to the complainant. On the principle that every pleader states his case as favorably to him as
he is able to do, we may assume that this time had mostly
elapsed before the purchase was made by the complainant.
No proofs were taken. The case was heard on bill and
answer. It narrows itself down to this: there being no
understanding or agreement between the purchaser at a
public sale, and the trustee making the sale, there being no
collusion between them, there being no fraud in fact, the
duties of the trustee in respect to the sale being ended, and
his doings confirmed by the court having the subject in
charge, does the circumstance that years afterwards the
trustee bought the property from the purchaser in good
faith, and for a fair price paid to him, vitiate and annul the
public sale to the purchaser?
If there was a fraud on the part of the complainant in
making the sale, at which (Jrowley was the purchaser, it
arose from an act, an intention, or an omission then done
or existing. A subsequent purchase may afford evidence

STEPHEN

v.

BEALL.

[[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.-Fraud.

that the original sale was made to permit that purchase, and
that the end illustrates what the parties all the while intended. But to make a fraudulent sale it is necessary to go
back to the acts, the intents, or the neglects existing at the
time of the sale. It would seem to be a self evident proposition that when it is'conceded that a sale was in fact fair,
honest, and just when made, that no unlawful act or intent
then existed, that a fraudulent intent or an unjust dealing
as to that time could not be imputed to the party from subsequent occurrences. It stands upon pleadings here that at
the time of the sale the complainant had no understanding
that he should ever have any interest in the property; in
other words, Orowley bought it for himself and for his own
exclusive benefit. There was no collusion, that is, the property was fairly sold and for all that could be obtained for it.
The sale was reported to and confirmed by the court. This
constituted a discharge of the duty of the trustee in making
the sale. It is quite difficult to conceive that any subsequent facts (leaving these in full force) can establish that
such a sale is fraudulent.
It is a general rule that a trustee cannot deal with the
subject of his trust. If one acting as trustee for others becomes himself interested in the purchase, the cestuis que trust
are entitled, of course, to have the sale set aside, unless the
trustee had fairly divested himself of the character of trustee, and the fact that the purchase was made through the
intervention of a third person makes no difference.*
We should be unwilling to weaken the obligation of good
faith and fidelity required by the law of a trustee. We
have frequently enforced such obligations in the most rigid
manner. It would, however, be a great straining of a good
principle to hold that a purchase by a trustee from the purchaser at a public sale, under the circumstances before us,
is necessarily fraudulent.
There is a class of cases undoubtedly in which transfers
* Jewett v. Miller, 10 New York, 402; Slade v. Van Vechten, 11 Paige,
21; Van Epps v. Van Epps, 9 Id. 237; Bank of Orleans v. Torr ey, 7 Hill,
260; Hawley v. Oramer, 4 Oowen, 717; Hill on Trustees, *536, h.

Oct. 1874.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. POLLARD.
Syllabus.

of property are adjudged to be fraudulent, although there
be no actual fraud meditated by the parties. Such are the
cases of an assignment by an insolvent debtor reserving portions of the assigned property for his own benefit, requiring
releases from creditors as a condition of participating in the
fund, and the like.
The case we are considering bears no resemblance to these
cases. There is in a purchase by a trustee, nothing that of
itself and necessarily vitiates the original sale. Whether
culpable or commendable depends upon the circumstances
of each case. It may be wrong, and it may be right. It
may be approved by the parties interested and affirmed. It
may be condemned by them and avoided. When it is found
that the transaction is itself perfectly fair and honest, that
the purchase was not contemplated at the original sale, but
was first thought of years afterwards, and was then made
for a full and fair consideration actually paid by the trustee,
and after the fiduciary duty was at an end, we find no authority to justify us in pronouncing the original sale to have
been fraudulent.

Upon the whole case the decree must be

REVERSED,

and

the record remanded, with directions to enter a decree in
conformity with this opinion, with leave to the parties to
amend their pleadings if they shall be so advised.
REVERSAL

AND REMAND

ACCORDINGLY.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. POLLARD.
1. Stokes v. Saltonstall (13 Peters, 181) affirmed; and on a suit for injury to
person, against a railway company carrying passengers, the doctrine

again declared to be that if the passenger is in the exercise of that degree of care which may reasonably be expected from a person in his
situation, and injury occur to him, this is prima facie evidence of the
carrier's liability.
2. Whether a passenger in a rail car, standing up in it, when getting into
the station-bouse, at the close of the journey, but before an actual stoppage of the car, is guilty of negligence in the circumstances of the case,
is a question of fact for the jury to decide under proper instructions.

