38

CARY V. TE

SAVINGS

UNION.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Presented in her name and by her agent in the matter, and
constituting the essential prelim.inary to her action, they
must stand as her acts, and the representations made therein
must be taken as true until at least some mistake is shown
to have occurred in them. As already said, no suggestion
is made that these proofs do not truly state the manner of
the death of the insured. It is sought, however, to avoid
their effect in favor of the company by taking a part of the
statement of its officers as to wtat the proofs showed, and
rejecting the residue, and then excluding the proofs themselves. This position cannot be sustained without manifest
injustice to the company.
The judgment must, therefore, be
REVERSED, AND A NEW TRIAL ORDERED.

CARY, COLLECTOR, V. THE SAVINGS UNION.
Where depositors in a savings bank do not receive a fixed rate of interest
independently of what the bank itself may make or lose in lending
their money, but receive a share of such profits as the bank, by lending
their money, may, after deducting expenses, &c., find that it has made,
such share of profits is a "dividend" within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Act of 1864, as amended by the act of 1866, and not
"interest."
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of California;
the case being thus:
An act of Congress passed in 1864, as amended in 1866,*
enacted that there should be levied and collected a tax of
five per centum on all dividends thereafter declared due,
wherever and whenever the same should be payable to depositors as part of the earnings, income, or gains of any
savings institution:

"Provided, That the annual or semi-annual interest allowed or
* 13 Stat. at Large, 283; 14 Id. 138.

Oct. 1874.]

GARY v. THE SAVINGS UNION.
Statement of the case.

paid to the depositors in savings banks or savings institutions
shall not be considered as dividends."
This statute being in force, Cary, collector of internal
revenue at San Francisco, demanded of the Savings Union,
one of the savings banks of that city, a certain sum of
money which had been assessed against the company as a
tax for dividends paid by it to its depositors. The company
refused to pay, alleging that they had paid no "dividends"
to their depositors, and had. only paid to them semi-annual
• interest on their deposits. The collector, however, being
about to distrain for the amount, the company paid it under
protest, and now brought suit as for money thus paid under
duress.
The Savings Union was this sort of institution:
It had a capital stock. Its business was to receive deposits, and in the contract under which they were received,
provision was made for the accumulation of a reserve fund
out of the profits earned, which was to be the property of
the company. The capital stock, reserve fund, and deposits
were also made, by the same contract, a common fund to be
lent out by the company as opportunity offered. The stock
and the reserve fund formed a guarantee capital for the security of the return of the deposits to the depositors.
At the expiration of every six months the directors were
required to ascertain the amount of the profits of the business, and after deducting certain salaries and expenses, and
setting apart a certain proportion, not exceeding one-tenth,
to the stockholders as a compensation for furnishing the
capital, apportion the remainder for a dividend upon the
capital stock, reserve fund, and deposits, at such monthly or
yearly rates as the total amount of net profits would permit.
The dividend apportioned to each account was to be in proportion to the time the several amounts represented in the
account formed part of the funds of the corporation, and
the rate of dividends or ordinary deposits was to be increased by twenty per cent. to form the rate upon funds
remaining permanently in the hands of the corporation,
including what were denominated "term deposits." The

CARY V.

THE SAVINGS UNION.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the government.

directors were also required to determine and make known
from time to time a rate of interest to be paid to depositors
who might wish to take such rate in lieu of dividends, on
drawing out the balance of their accounts between one dividend day and another.
Each depositor at the time of opening his account, signed
a contract printed on the first three leaves of the little passbook, which he then received. The contract was headed,
"Conditions of agreement on which deposits may be made with,
and will be repaid by the San Francisco Savings Union."
And it contained a large number of provisions in regard
to the returns which the depositor expected to get for his
deposit. In these "conditions" these returns were always
styled "dividends," as ex. gr., in thq following, which was
one of the conditions:
"Dividends will be payable during the six months following
the half year for which they may have been declared, in preference to deposits; .. .and all dividends, not drawn within the
first thirty days, will share in the next dividend."
The questiou was whether the payments made to depositors, upon which the taxes now sought to be recovered, were
assessed and collected, were made as interest or as dividends
of profits. The court below held them to be dividends, but
held also that under an act of Coiii'ess, to which it referred,
and passed since the two acts above quoted, the dividends
were not taxable. It accordingly gave judgment for the
company, and the collector brought the case here.
The ruling of the court below as to the validity of the
tax had, lately, and since the judgment, been declared by this
court a wrong one; and the law declared to be that dividends were then still taxable. So that the only question
now was whether the tax was laid on dividends or on interest. If on the former, the judgment was, of course, to be
reversed, and a judgment entered below for the collector.
Mr. G. I. Hill, Assistant Allorney-General, for the plainlif
in error,distinguished the case of such a savings bank as this

Oct. 1874.]

CARY v. TaE

SAVINGS UNION.

Opinion of the court.

one was, from that of savings banks-such as he said there
are many of-which simply take money from depositors,
agreeing to pay to them a fixed rate of interest per annum;
a rate for which the corporation is bound, no matter how
little gain it may itself make; and for no more than which
it is bound, however great its own gains may be; any surplus above the interest agreed to be paid to depositor, not
belonging to him but to the corporation.
Mr. Hf... Tilden, contra, argued that what the depositor
got here was really the interest which was paid by borrowers
on money put by him into the bank, and that calling that
interest a "dividend" did not less make it "interest."
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
A distinction is expressly recognized in the act of Congress between interest and dividends, and the Circuit Court
decided that the payments to the depositors were for dividends. The question is whether this decision was correct.
We think it was. The depositors contracted not for a
rate of interest to be paid upon their deposits, but for a
share of the profits of the business in which their money
was, by agreement, to be employed. It is true that the
profits of the company were principally to be derived from
interest upon loans made, but they w~re none the less on
that account profits. The interest received for the loan of
each deposit was not kept by itself, and paid to the depositors after deducting a charge to cover expenses, but all was
placed in a common fund, and when the net result of the
business was ascertained, that was divided among the several contributors according to the value of their contributions. Such a division clearly produces a dividend according to the common understanding of that term. The parties themselves so understood it, for they gave it that name
in the contracts, executed when the depositors made their
deposits. They stipulated for the payment of dividends and
not interest.
JUDGMENT ACORDINGLY.

