SO. PACIFIC CO. v. INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. 433
219 U. S.

Syllabus.

Weyerhaeuser v. Hoyt, just decided, the judgment should
be affirmed. We dissent from the opinion and judgment
of the majority.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. INTERSTATE
COMMERCE COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTIIERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No: 527. Argued December 13, 1910.-Decided February 20, 1911.
An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission, made in consequence of assumption of powers not possessed by it, is void, and its
enforcement should be restrained by the courts.
The powers of the Interstate Commerce Commission do not extend toregulating and controlling the policy of the owners of railr6ads in
fixing rates, anti it cannot substitute for a just and reasonable rate,
a lower rate, either on the ground of policy or on the ground that the
railroad was by its former conduct estopped from charging a reasonable rate.
Where the shippers do not complain of a new and higher rate because
it is intrinsically an unreasonable one, but because, although reasonable, the railroads are estopped to advance it on account of having
maintained the lower rate for a considerable period, it is beyond the
power of the Commission to direct a restoration of the old rate; and
so held in regard to the Willamette Valley lumber rates.
Where the Commission makes an order restoring a rate that shows on
its face it was made on the ground that the railroad was estopped to,
increase it, the order will not be presumed to have been made for
the purpose of establishing a reasonable rate, if it excludes a section
from the benefit of the restored rate which amounts to a discrimination against that section.
Questions arising on the validity of an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission fixing a rate do not become moot merely because
the period for which the rate is prescribed has expired, where an element of liability for reparation remains. See Southern Pacific Terminal Company v. Interstate Commerce Commission, pwt, p. 498.
VOL. rxcxix-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellee.

219 U. S.

THE facts, which involve the validity of an order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission in regard to appellants'
rates on lumber, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Maxwell Evarts, with whom Mr. F. C. Dillardwas
on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Wade H. Ellis and Mr. Luther M. Walter for .the
Interstate Commerce Commission, appellee:
The railroads complain of the order first because the
Commission was without authority to fix any rates whatever; second, because the Commission did not establish
the new rates because the low rate was unreasonable or
because the new rates were reasonable, but simply because the railroads had promised and long maintained
a lower rate; and because the rates established by the
Commission are asserted by the railroads to be unreasonably low, unremunerative, and even below the cost of
service.
Congress itself may fix interstate railroad rates. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1. It is expressly asserted in
many cases. Wabash &c. R. R: Co. v. Illinois, 118 U. S.
557; Phila. S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326;
Northern Securities Case, 193 U. S. 197, 368.
Fixing of rates is a regulation of interstate commerce.
Maximum Rate Cases, 167 U. S. 479; C., N. 0. & T. P.
v. Int. Comm. Comm., 162 U. S. 184, 197; Smyth v.
Ames, 169 U. S. 466; Wabash R. R. Co. v. Illinois, 118
U. S. 557.
Congress may confer upon a commission power to ascertain what rate as a maximum will be just and reasonable and prescribe -and enforce that rate. Missouri River
Rate Cases, 218 U. S. 88; Int. Comm. Comm. v. C., R. I. & P.
Ry. Co., 218 U. S. 88; Int. Comm. Comm. v. C., B. & Q.
Ry. Co., 218 U. S. 113; Int. Comm. Comm. v. Stickney,
215 U. S. 98; Int. Comm. Comm. v. C., N. 0. & T. P. Ry.
Co., 167 U. S. 479, 494,

SO. PACIFIC CO. v. INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. 435
219 U. S.

Argument for. Appellee.

The power thus exercised by the Commission does -not
constitute the usurpation of legislative or judicial functions, or unite in one body conflicting governmental authority, but consists merely in the ascertainment of facts
upon which operates the general rule of Congress prescribing just and reasonable rates. St. L. &c. Ry. Co. v.
Taylor, 210 U. S. 281; Railroad Commission Cases,. 116
U. S. 307; Reagan v. Farmers' L. & T Co., 154 U. S. 362;
Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 693,; Buufield v. Stranahan, 192
U. S. 470; Union Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. 364.
Penalties imposed by the Interstate Commerce Act do
not amount to a deprivation of property because, first, no
penalties are sought to be recovered in this case, and,
second, the penalty provision is separable from the remainder of the statute. Commodities Clause Cases, 213
U. S. 366, 417.
The real gist of the railroads' complaint is that the
Commission heard testimony as to the circumstances un,der which the old rate of $3.10 had been established and
maintained and, after being once increased and again
restored, was finally supplanted by the new $5 rate
which the shippers made the subject of their appeal for
relief.
The only point pressed by appellants is that the Commission gave a wrong reason for its action, but no expressions in the opinion of the Commission can be used
to defeat its order if the order is otherwise lawful. So.
Pac. Co. v. Int. Comm. Comm., 200 U. S. 536, 556, 557.
The Interstate Commerce Commission is not a court.
It is not governed by technical rules of lAw with respect to
the admission of evidence. Int. Comm. Comm. v. Baird,
194 U. S. 25, 44L; § 13 of the Interstate Commerce .Act as
amended.
The chief function of the court, is to consider not the
method by which the result was reached, but whether or
not the rate prescribed, is so low as to contravene the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellee.

219 U. S.

stitutional provisions for the protection of property. San
Diego Land Co. v. National City, 174 U. S. 739; Knoxville
v. Water Co., 212 U. S. 1; Prentis v. Atl. Coast Line Co.,
211 U. S. 210; Willcox v. ConsolidatedGas Co., 212 U. S. 19.
The Commission had a right, in determining the reasonableness of rates involved, to consider the effect of
the advance by the railroads from $3.10 to $5 per ton upon
the transportation of lumber.
The record in this case shows conclusively that the advance in rates made by the railroads in 1907 from $3.10
to $5 per ton for the transportation of the class of lumber
involved, would, if permitted to stand, simply stop such
transportation altogether.
It follows. that the $5 rate, being absolutely prohibitive
of any traffic, amounts to a withdrawal of transportation
facilities. Atl. Coast Line R. R: Co. v. No. Car. Corp.
Comm., 206 U. S. 1.
In determining what was a reasonable rate, the Commission was right in considering, as an item of evidence,
the fact that the railroads had voluntarily established and
long maintained a rate of $3.10 for the service. Frye v.
Nor. Pac. Ry. Co., 13 I. C. C. Rep. 501, 507, 508; Holmes
v. So. Ry. Co., 8 I. C. C. Rep. 561, 568; Stockyards v.
Keith, 139 U. S. 128; Int. Comm. Comm. v. Chicago &c.
R. R. Co., 186 U. S. 320.
The Commission heard testimony on the reasonableness of the rates and did not limit the basis of its order to•
the. past conduct of the railroads, but, independendy of
any so-called estoppel, expressly found the $5 rate to be
unreasonable and the rates prescribed to be reasonable.
The railroads having attacked the lawfulness of the
rates prescribed by.the Commission, the burdenwas upon
them to show that the rates so fixed were below the cost
of service or so unreasonably low as to amount to a confiscation'of property. Ther introduced no testimony
whatever, either before the Commission or the court be-

SO. PACIFIC CO. v. INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. 437
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

low, which proves or tends to prove the allegation in
their bill of complaint.
The real issue in this case is whether or not the rates
fixed by the Commission are so low as to constitute *a
deprivation of property. Land Co. v. National City, 174
U. S. 739; Willcox v. Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19.
If the rate prescribed is not for a distinct and separable
service and if it appears that notwithstanding such a rate
the road is enabled to'earn a fair return upon all its business, the rate so prescribed will not be condemned as a
deprivation of property Minn. & St. L. t. R. Co. v.
Minnesota, 186 U. S. 257; Atl. Coast Line R. R. Co. V.
No. Car. Corp. Comm., 206 U. S. 1; St. L. & S. F. R. R.
Co. v. Gill, 156 U. S. 649.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Whether the court below was right in refusing to enjoin at the suit of the railway companies who are appellants the enforcement of an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission is the. general subject,for consideration on this record.
When that which is superfluous. is put out of view, it
will come to pass that every substantial controversy which
the case presents will be disposed of by determining what
was the character of the order made by the Commission;
that is to say, what was the power which that body exerted in making the order in question. We state at once
the pertinent facts.
The Willamette Valley, about 150 miles long, lies in the
western part of the State of Oregon, south of the Colunbia
River, and through it there flows in a northerly direction
'the Willamette River, which empties into the Columbia
River. Portland is on the Willamette River at or near
where that river empties into the Columbia River. From

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

Cornwallis, on ,the Willamette River, a point about 97
miles south of Portland, that is, about tl~at distance from
where the Willamette empties into the Columbia, the
Willamette is navigable, and there is navigation from
Portland to the sea by means of the Willamette and the
Columbia Rivers. The rails of the Oregon and California
Railroad from Portland pass throtigh te Willamette Valley, paralleling the Willamette River at various distances,
and extend to the Oregon and California state line, where
that road connects with the Southern Pacific Company.
The latter has for a number of years operated the Oregon
and California as part of its system.
In November, 1907, a complaint was filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission on behalf of the Western
,Oregon Lumber Manufacturers' Association and others,
concerning a rate of $5 per ton, in carload lots, on: "green
common rough fir lath and lumber and forest products"
from Willamette Valley points to San Francisco and bay
points, fixed in a tariff filed by the Southern Pacific Company with the Commission and which became operative
in April, 1907. It was charged that the rate complained
of was unreasonable in and of itself and discriminatory.
it was averred that from about 1898 there had existed a
rate of $0.10 for carrying the same character of lumber between the points named; that upon the faith of this rate
and the belief that it would not be changed large amounts
of capital had been invested in lumber mills in the Willamette Valley; that the, people in that valley were dependent upon the lumber industry, and that such industry
would be destroyed and the population be detrimentally affected if the new rate of $5 per ton was continued
to be charged. It was alleged that the $3.10 rate was
reasonable in and of itself, and that the rate had been
increased without just cause upoa the theory that the
lumber interest in the Willamette Valley was prosperous,
and that hence the traffic could stand the increase. The

SO. PACIFIC CO. v. INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. 439
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

railroad companies answered, setting up the reasonableness of the $5 rate. They in effect averred that the $3.10
rate, which had previously prevailed, was unreasonably
low and that it had been fixed solely for the purpose of
enabling lumber from the Willamette Valley to reach a
market in San Francisco and bay points, which it could
not have done if a just and reasonable rate had been exacted. This condition, it was alleged, had arisen from the
fact that from Portland and other points on the Columbia
River and Puget Sound there was a highly developed lumber industry accessible to San Francisco and bay points by
water at rates so low as to have absolutely excluded the
shipping of any lumber from the Willamette Valley by
rail to such points, unless a very low rate had been fixed
by the railroad companies to meet the water-borne lumber traffic, and that there was no market which was commercially available for the Willamette Valley lumber other
than that of San Francisco and bay points when the $3.10
rate was fixed. The complaint and the answer which we
thus state are not in the record, but we have summarized
their contents from a statement made concerning the
same by the Interstate Commerce Commission in its answer in this suit filed in the Circuit Court.
It is certain that for a number of years the $3.10 rate
was applied both to shipments of lumber not only from
the Willamette Valley, but also from Portland. Several
years, however, before the going into effect of the $5 rate
fixed in the tariff of April, 1907, a tariff fixing that rate
had been made applicable to Portland. During the hearing before the Commission the Portland lumber interests
intervened and asked that if the $3.10 rate was restored to
Willamette Valley it should also be restored to Portland,
so as to prevent discrimination against Portland.
After a hearing the Commission in June, 1908, filed its
report and made an order adverse to the railway companies, Commissioners Knapp and Harlan dissenting. 14

440'

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

I. C. C. Rep. 61. It suffices to say that the order entered
directed the railroad to cease from charging the $5 rate
complained of from Willamette Valley points and fixed as
a proper rate from certain points in the valley the sum of
$3.40 a ton, and from the remaining points in the valley
the sum of $3.65. Although some of the points embraced
by the order were within a few miles of Portland that city
was not given the benefit of the reduction, and therefore
remained subject to the $5 rate.
The railroad companies, refusing to yield obedience to
the order, commenced this suit in equity in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of
California to have the order set aside and to enjoin its enforcement. After a demurrer was sustained, an amended
bill was filed. By this bill it was averred that the rate of
$5 fixed by the tariff which the Commission had set aside
was a just and reasonable rate per se, and that the rate
fixed by the Commission was so unreasonably low as to
be unjust and unreasonable. This was alleged to be the
case not only in view of the great increase in the cost of
the operation of the road since the time when the $3.10
rate was put in force, but also because of the normally excessive cost of maintenance and operation resulting from
the mountainous country which the road traversed, subjecting to an unusual expense for repairing damage done
by floods and freshets, the high grades requiring the application of increased motive power, and permitting even
with such power the movement of only unusually short
trains, thereby causing a much greater average expense.
Referring to the rate of $3.10 which had previously prevailed, the circumstances connected with its establishinent were detailed. It was alleged that the rate was unreasonably low when fixed and Wasso fixed by the railroad
solely with the object of encouraging the lumber industry
in the Willamette Valley and to enable it to reach a market, a result which otherwise could not have been attained.

SO. PACIFIC CO. v. INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. 441
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The averments on this subject reiterated the statements
made in the answer before the Commission. It was alleged that having maintained the -unreasonably low rate
for the reasons stated the railroad companies had finally
changed the same and fixed a just and reasonable rate for
the services rendered, because of changes in' the situation
of the lumber interest in the Willamette Valley. Those
changes it was said arose from the opening of markets for
lumber from the Willamette Valley' by means of new railroad routes. via Portland as a gateway to the East, by
means of which a large percentage of lumber produced in
the Willamette Valley was moved to other markets. It
was alleged that the Commission, in setting aside the increased tariff rate of $5 and fixing substantially the old
rate, had exceeded the powers conferred upon it by law,
because it did not act in the exercise of the authority conferred upon it to determine whether a rate was just and
reasonable in and of itself with regard to the service rendered, but had proceeded upon the assumption that power
was conferred upon it to fix an unreasonable rate because
of its belief as to the. equities -of the 'situation or upon the
basis of principles of estoppel or upon its conception of
public policy and its right to enforce what was deemed
best, under the circumstances, for the interest of shippers.
There was a demurrer to the amended bill, and the court
certified the case to this 6ourt. The certificate was dismissed. 215 U. S. 226. On the receipt of the mandate the
demurrer was withdrawn and a new demurrer, as also an
'answer to the bill, were filed. In the answer the lumber
conditions in the Willamette Valley were recited, as also
what were alleged to be the circumstances connected with
the establishment of the $3.10 rate and theQproceedings
had before the Commission in the controversy referred to,
were detailed. The regularity of the proceedings :before
the Commission was averred, and the legality and finality
of the findings and conclusions of that body were asserted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

It was declared that the rates fixed from the points in the
Willamette Valley, excluding Portland, weie just and
reasonable in and of themselves. Traversing the allegations of the complaift, it was averred that the Commission
found the $5 rate to be unreasonable and unjust, admitted
that it .found the $3.10 rate to be a low rate, but denied
that it found such rate to be unreasonably low, and denied
that the $3.40 and $3.65 rates were substantially the same
as the $3.10 rate.
The cause was heard upon the amended bill; the answer,
the replication of the plaintiff and the evidence introduced
before the Commission. The Circuit Court, as we have
said, entered a decree dismissing the bill. This was done
upon the theory that, as the Commission found that the
rate fixed by it gave some remuneration above the cost of
operation, and was not therefore confiscatory, there was
no power to interfere. This appeal was then taken.
In the argument at bar the railroad companies do not
question that if a complaint is made to the Interstate Commerce Commission concerning the unreasonableness of a
rate that body has the authority to examine the subject,
and if it finds the rate complained of is in and of itself unreasonable, having regard to the service rendered, to order
the desisting from charging such rate, and to fix a new
and reasonable rate, to be operative for a period of two
years. The companies further do not deny that where
the Commission exercises such authorityj its-finding is not
subject to be reviewed by the courts. Interstate Commerce
Commission v. Illinois Central R. R. Co., 215 U. S. 452.
In other words, the argument on behalf of the railroads
fully concedes that an order of the Commission is not
open to attack in the courts so long as that body has kept
within the powers conferred by the statute. Making these
concessions, the proposition relied upon to secure reversal
is that the court below should have set aside the order of
the Commission because that order was in excess of the

SO. PACIFIC CO. v. INTERSTATE COMM. COMM., 443
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

power conferred upon the Commission, and this, it is insisted, is to be determined by substance, and not mere
form. In other words, the contention is, that although the
order made by the Commission may have been couched in
a form which would cause it, superficially considered, to
appear to be but the exercise of an authority to correct an
unreasonable rate, yet if it plainly results from the record
that the order of the Commission was not the exercise of
such an authority, but was based upon the assumption by
that body of the possession of a power not conferred by law,
the mere form given by the Commission to its action does
not relieve the courts from the duty of reviewing and correcting an abuse of power. Applying these propositions,
the insistence is that both in form and in substance the
order of the Commission is void, because it manifests that
that body did not merely exert the power conferred by
law to correct an unjust and unreasonable rate, but that
it made the order which is complained of upon the theory
that the power was possessed to set aside a just and reasonable rate lawfully fixed by a railroad whenever the
Commission deemed that it would be equitable to shippers
in a particular district to put in force a reduced rate.
That is to say, the contention is that the order entered by
the Commission shows on its face that that body assumed
that it had power not merely to prevent the charging of
unjust and unreasonable rates, but als6 to regulate and
control the general policy of the owners of railroads as to
fixing rates, and consequently that there was authority
to substitute for a just and reasonable rate one which in
and of itself in a legal sense might be unjust and unreasonable, if the Commission was satisfied that it was a wise
policy to do so or because a railroad had so conducted itself
as to be estopped in the future from being entitled to receive a just and reasonable compensation for the service
rendered. On the other hand, the Commission in the argument at bar does not contend that it possessed the indeed

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

abnormal and extraordinary power which the railroads
thus say was exerted in rendering the order complained
of, a power which if it obtained would open a vast field
for the exercise of discretion, to the destruction of rights
of private property in railroads, and would in effect assert
public ownership. without any of the responsibilities. which
ownership would imply. While it is not denied on behalf
of the Commission that twat body may have considered
the prior rate prevailing in the Willamette Valley, the
period during which it had been in force, and the effect
upon the business situation in the valley bf a change to a
higher charge, all these things it is insisted were not made
the basis of the power exerted, but were simply taken into
consideration as some of the elements proper to be considered in the ultimate exertion cif the lawful power to
forbid an unjust and unreasonable rate and fix a reasonable
one.
It is clear, therefore, as we have said at the outset, that
the result of the contentions afid concessions of the respective parties is to reduce the controversy to a single
issue, which is, What was the nature and character of
the order made by the Commission? That is, What, in
substance, was the power which the Commission exerted
in making the order? °
Coming to the consideration of that subject, we are of
opinion that the court below erred in not restraining the
enforcement of the order complained of, because we see
'no escape from the conclusion that the order was void because it was made in consequence of the assumption by
the Commission that it possessed the extreme powers
which the railroad companies insist the order plainly manifests. We proceed very briefly to state the reasons which
compel us to this conclusion. In the first place, when the
complaint which was made to the Commission and the
answer of the -ailroaa companies to that complaint are
considered they give rise to the inference that in substance

SO. PACIFIC CO. v. INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. 445
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the ubject complained of was not the intrinsic unreasonableness of the new rate which the railroad companies
substituted for the former rate, but the injury it was
thought would be suffered from not continuing the old
rate in force, an injury arising from circumstances extrinsic to the new rate; that is, a loss which would be suffered by substituting the higher rate, even if that rate
was in and of itself reasonable and just. That such was
the view entfrtained by the complainants when the hearing began before the Commission is too clear to require
anything but statement. Thus during the opening'made
on b.ehalf of the complainants by their counsel, Mr. Teal,
after he had made statements concerning the origin of
the $3.10 rate, the following took place:
"Commissioner' COCKRELL: How much was that; $3.10
a ton?
"Mr. TEAL: $3.10 a ton; yes, 15Y2 cents a hundred; and
I will state that we do not claim that that is not a low
rate. It is a low rate. In fact, I may say that it is one of
the lowest rates on: lumber in the United States, and it is
a rate put in, as I state, maintained for the .purposes I
state, and the railroad company is entitled to full credit
for having done it.
"Commissioner PROUTY; Let me ask you, Mr. Teal, this
question. Suppose that rate had never been lower than
25 cents a hundred. pounds, which is $5 a ton, would you
claim that this Commission today ought to reduce that rate?
"Mr. TEAL: No; I don't think I would.
"Commissioner PROUTY: That is to say, you do not
claim the rate is upreasonable in itself?
"Mr. TEAL: No; I do not.
"Commissioner PROUTY: You put your case entirely on.
the ground that -these people represented to your clients.
and to other mill men in the Willamette Valley that they
would establish this lower rate for the purpose of building
up the inidustry in that valley, add that the industry can-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

not exist there in competition with other sections unless
that rate is maintained in effect?

"Mr.

TEAL:

Yes, sir.

"Coi'nmissioner PROUTY: And therefore the railroad is
obliged to maintain it in effect?
"Mr. TEAL: 'It has been maintained for eight or nine
years. You have my position exactly, Mr. Commissioner.
"Commissioner PROUTY: That simply shows that it has
been maintained and industries have grown up; that the
railroad company has, during that period, elected to maintain it, and found it profitable, probably?
"Mr. TEAL: You have stated my position exactly. I
am not here complaining about the rates being high or low,
because it is a low rate."
Thereafter, as Mr. Teal concluded his opening statement, the following occurred:
"Commissioner PROUTY: That seems to be your case,
Mr. Teal. If they can, there is no reason from your statement why the rates should be reduced, because you say
the rate is low enough, unleis those men have been induced
to build their mills there, and ought to be protected.
"Mr. TEAL: That is correct. I want you to understand,
Mr. Commissioner, that I do not claim the Commission
has a right to compel the railroad, under ordinary circumstances, to meet water rates or any other competition."
It is true that subsequently, when counsel for the railroad companies was about to make his opening statement,
Mr. Teal, after reiterating "that the $3.10 rate is a low
rate," observed: "I do not say it should necessarily pay a
$5 rate. That is, I do not want to be understood as saying that this rate of five dollars, in and of itself, would be
reasonable." Answering the query of one of the commissioners as to whether, if the railroads had maintained in
effect for the last ten years "this rate of 25 cents a hundred pounds," it would be claimed "that that was so unreasonable that the Commission ought to reduce it," Mr.

SO. PACIFIC CO. v. INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. 447
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Teal answered: "Yes; I would claim that that would not
be a reasonable rate to all these points." These remarks,
however, can properly only be regarded as a declaration
of an unwillingness to concede more than that the $3.10
rate was a low rate, and the attempt to engraft a qualification or limitation upon the prior declarations of counsel cannot be treated as having any efficacy, since no
proof whatever bearing upon an issue as to the reasonableness of the $5 rate for the service to be rendered was introduced by the complainants. In fact, no attempt was
even made to cross-examine Mr. Miller, the general traffic
manager of the defendant, who testified on that subject.
That the complainants intended to confine their evidence
to the issue of whether the $3.10 rate should be maintained in order to enable the lumber mills to continue to
prosper is evidenced by the following:
"Commissioner PROUTY:

.

.

.

Mr. Teal, there does

not seem to be much dispute about the questions in this
case. The mills have a rate to'the South, and one question is to what extent they are dependent upon that rate
for their continued existence. They have a rate to the
East. For what reason is not that rate as valuable to
them as it is to Portland and other mills, and to what extent is it necessary that this rate should be maintained to
San Francisco in order to fairly continue the prosperity
of these establishments?
"Mr. TEAL: That is where I intend to confine my testimony."
The order of the Commission, as we have said, applied
the rate which it fixed substantially to the very doors of
Portland, but did not make the reduction applicable to
that city. While we shall have occasion in a moment to
refer to this aspect of the order as conclusively showing on
its face that the power exerted in making it was not the
power to condemn an unreasonable and fix a reasonable
rate, an excerpt from the examination by Mr. Cotton for

OCTOBER TERM. 1910.

Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

the railroad companies and Mr. Abel for the intervenors, of
two witnesses-J. Poulsen for the Portland interests and
Dixon for the Willamette Valley interests-will make perfectly clear how really immaterial the question of the
reasonableness of the $5 rate was considered to be.
On cross-examination of Mr. Poulsen the following
transpired:
"Mr. CoTToN: In saying that you think Portland ought
to have a lower rate, do you mean they should have a lower
rate than a $3.10 rate?
"Mr. POULSEN: Imean they should have a lower rate than
the inland people on account of having water competition.
"Mr. COTTON: But you do not express your opinion
about the reasonableness of the rate?
"Mr. POULSEN: No, sir.
"Mr. ABEL: He was not asked that.
"Mr. COTTON: That is what I understood, but I just
wanted to make it clear.
"Mr. POULSEN:

No."

On the examination of Mr. Dixon the following ensued:
"Mr. CoTToN: It would follow, as a matter of fact, that
if the $3.10 rate, or any lower rate than the barge rate was
established, that it ought to be extended all the way up to
Portland; would it not?
"Mr. DIXON: Personally I have no objection to that;
but I do not see that it would necessarily follow.
"Mr. CoTToN: I am not considering your standpoint. I
merely want your best opinion with reference to the industry in western Oregon.
"Mr. DIXON: I think, Mr. Cotton, that the arrangement'in effect prior to April 18th was, from the standpoint
of the lumber shippers, a fair arrangement.
"Commissioner PROUTY: How can you justify leaving
Portland out of the San Francisco rate and taking you into
the Eastern rate?
"Mr. DIXON: The Portland mills have so much the ad-

SO. PACIFIC CO. v. INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. 449
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

vantage of us in almost every other branch of the business
that I do not see how it is unfair to them to give us what
might appear to be a slight advantage in one particular.
In other words, they have a better grade of logs, they have
a better market and more markets, they have a place to
dispose of their refuse, and, what counts for more than anything else and is absolutely necessary to the successful conduct of the lumber business, they can get rid of their output, while we cannot, up to date."
Although we find- the record replete with statements
made during the course of the hearing by counsel for both
parties, and certainly by one or more of the commissioners
who were present at the hearing, which we think leave no
doubt as to the nature and character of the power exerted,
we do not pursue the subject further, since we are of opinion that the fac- of.the opinion and the order so additionally serve to make manifest the situation as to render it
unnecessary to do more than briefly advert to those sub-'
jects. While it is true that the opinion of the Commission
may contain some sentences which, when segregated from
their context, may give some support to the contention
that the order was based upon a consideration merely of
the intrinsic unreasonableness of the rate which was condemned, we think when the opinion is considered as a
whole in the light of the condition of the record to which
we have referred it clearly results that it was based upon
the belief by the Commission that it had the right under,
the law to protect the lumber interests of the Willamette
Valley from the consequences which it was deemed would
arise from a change of the rate, even if that change was
from an unreasonably low rate which had prevailed for
some time to a just and reasonable charge for the service
rendered for the future. Manifestly, this was deemed by
the Commission to be the power which was being exerted,
since Mr. Commissioner Harlan, joined by the Chairman of
the Commission, dissented on the ground that the order
VOL. ccxix-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

was an exertion of a power not possessed to give effect to a
supposed equitable estoppel, and no language was inserted
in the opinion to indicate to the contrary. The obvious
impression as to the nature and character of the power exerted given by the very face of the opinion of the Commission is shown by the syllabi to the officiaJ report of the
opinion, which we copy in the margin.'
Finally, the express exclusion of Portland from the benefit of the reduced rate and the rp'asons given for the exclusion indubitably establish the character of the power exerted so as to exclude the possibility of holding that it was
merely the exercise of the right to correct an unjust and
unreasonable rate. We say this because if the assumption
be indulged in that the order was but the manifestation of
the authority to correct an unreasonable rate, the traffic
of Portland, in the absence of some lawful reason for excluding it, would be discriminated against by the order ex-,
cluding Portland from the benefit of the reduced rate. We
cannot, therefore, assume that the order was legal because
it rests upon the power to correct an unreasonable and to
substitute a reasonable rate, since to indulge in that assumption would at once beget the inevitable inference that
the order was repugnant to the statute because of its dis'1. Where a rate has been established and maintained for a considerable period for the purpose of developing a particular industry
and with full knowledge that the industry could not be developed
without it, and wihere, under the influence of such rate, large amounts
of money have been invested in property the value of which must be
seriously impaired by an advance of the rate, that fact is an important
consideration in passing upon the reasonableness of such advance.
2. The Southern Pacific Company established a rate of $3.10 per
ton upon rough green fir lumber and lath from points in the Willamette
Valley to San Francisco for the purpose of developing the lumber
industry in that section, and maintained the rate in effect, with a brief
interval, for six years; and on the strength of this rate that industry
attained considerable proportions. In April, 1907, this rate was advanced to $5 per ton: Held, That the.advance was unreasonable and
that the rate ought not for the future to exceed $3.40 per ton.

SO. PACIFIC CO. v. INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. 451
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

criminatory character. And the reasons given for the exclusion of Portland from the benefit of the reduction which
the order made likewise leave no room for the conclusion
that the reduction was based merely upon the finding that
the tariff rate which was reduced was, considering the service rendered, in and of itself unreasonable. The reasons
for not applying the reduced rate to Portland were thus explained in the report of the Commission:
"The considerations which induce us to apply this lower
rate to mills in the Willamette Valley do not obtain in case
of Portland. These manufacturers have the benefit of the
water iate, and are not, therefore, dependent at all upon
the defendants for reaching the San Francisco market.
The low rate was only applied to Portland for a comparatively short time, and has not been in force there for the
last four yeais. It is of no special importance to the manufacturer at that point, and no injustice is done by withdrawing it. The distance from Portland is considerably
greater than the average distance from Willamette Valley
mills, and, on the whole, we think the defendants should be
left to their optiQn in meeting or declining to meet water
rates at Portland. The claim of .the intervenors is therefore
denied."
Treating the order as having been based upon the asAumed possession of the extraordinary power which it is
insisted was exercised in making the order, the force of the
reasoning thus advanced to sustain the order cannot be
successfully gainsaid. But uporr the theory that the order
was made merely as the result of the exercise of the statutory power to prevent the charging of an unreasonable and
unjust rate, having regard to the service rendered, the inconsequence of the reasoning stated becomes at once patent. This must be the case because Portland had been
deprived by the railroads of a just and reasonable rate for
a longer time than the Willamette Valley points certainly
afforded no ground for concluding that Portland was not

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

entitled to relief, and it is equally certain that the fact that
there was competition by water from Portland can in no
way justify the permitting the railroads to continue to
charge against traffic from Portland a high and unreasonable rate. Indeed, if the order be assumed to have been
made merely as the result of the power to correct an unjust
and unreasonable rate, then the reasoning by which the
order, in so far as it dealt with Portland was concerned,
was sustained, comes to this, that the greater the wrong
the lesser the right to redress, and the greater the reason
for the low and competitive rate the stronger the reason
for refusing to fix such a rate.
The considerations just stated dispose of the entire
controversy except in one particular. It is claimed at bar
that the questions arising for decision are moot, since in
consequence of the lapse of more than two years since the
order of the Commission became effective, by operation of
law the order of the Commission has spent its force, and
therefore the question for decision is moot. The contention is disposed of by Southern Pacific Terminal Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, this day decided, post, p. 498.
In addition to the considerations expressed in that case
it is to be observed that clearly the suggestion is without.
merit, in view of the possible liability for reparation to
which the railroadq might be subjected if the legality of
the order were not determined and the influence and effect which the existence of the rate fixed for two years, if
it were legal, would have upon the exercise by the railroads of their authority to fix just and reasonable rates in
the future, clearly causes the case to involve not merely a
moot controversy.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed and the case
remanded to that court, with directions to enter a decree
declaring the order of the Interstate Commerce Commission to be void, and otherwise granting the relief prayed
in the bill.

