ATLANTIC, GULF &c. CO. v. PHILIPPINE ISLANDS. 17
Syllabus.

219 U. S.

purpose which its adoption was intended to foster and protect.
The ruling which we now make does not of course extend to a subject which is not before us. It follows, therefore, that we do not now intimate that the rule which in
this case has controlled our decision would be applicable
to a case where an indictment was found in a court of the
United States for a crime which was wholly committed
on a reservation, disconnected with acts committed within
the Juirisdibction of the State, and where the prosecution
for such crime in the courts of the United States instead
of being in conflict with the applicable state law was in all
respects in harmony therewith.
Affirmed.

THE ATLANTIC, GULF AND PACIFIC COMPANY,
v. GOVERNMENT OF THE PHW,TpPINE ISLANDS.
FROM AND

.APPEAL

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF

THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.

No. 64.

Argued December 6, 1910.-Decided December 19, 1910.

A Government contract for building a bulkhead in Manila provided
that the contractor would be responsible for damages arising from
wave action or pressure of the revetment against the timber structure,
but that the Government would be responsible for break caused by
pressure of the mud fill. There was a break owing to pressure of the
mud fill and before it could be repaired there was a further damage
caused by a typhoon but which would not have happened had the
original break not existed. Held, as held by the courts below, that
the contractor must bear the loss caused by the typhoon.
THE

facts, which involve the construction of a contract
VOL. ccxix-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellant and Plaintiff in Error.

219 U. S.

for a public work with the Government of the Philippine
Islands, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. James Russell Soley, with whom Mr. H. C. Dickin.son was on the brief, for appellant and plaintiff in error:
A,demurrer should not be sustained if, upon any fair
and liberal interpretation, a cause of action can be implied from the averments of the complaint. Lockhart y.
Leeds, 195 U. S. 427, 435; Swift & Co. v. United States,
196 U. S. 375, 395; Coatsworth v. Lehigh Valley R. Co., 156
N.- Y. 451, 457; Olcott v. Carroll,39 N. Y. 436; Naylor v.
N. Y. C. & H. R. R. R. Co., 119 App. Div. 22, 28;People v.
New York, 28 Barb. 240, 248; Ketchum v. Van Dusen, 11
App. Div. 332.
Plaintiff has pleaded a series of averments from which
a cause of action may be clearly inferred. Even if freely
admitted that the pleading is inartificially drawn and in
some points is obscure and contains apparent contradictions, it clearly appears that the work which was the subject of this contract suffered serious injury by reason of the
pressure of the fill upon the enclosing bulkhead and under
the terms of the contract, the defendant, the Government
of the Philippine Islands, was required to pay for the repairs to the structure so caused and that the work was
done at reasonable and proper prices,
The break of May 1, 1906, due to the pressure of: the
fill upon the enclosing bulkhead, was the proximate cause
of the subsequent injury to the work,- for,the repair-of
which compensation is demanded in the complaint.
The question here is that of proximate cause and the
pressure of the fill is distinctly pleaded as the proximate
cause of the injuries both of May 18-19 and of May 1.
Mil. & St. Paul R. Co. v. Kellogg, 94 U. S. 469, 474; Insurance Co. v. Boon, 95 U. S. 117, 130; Insurance Co. v. Tweed,
7 Wall. 44; The G. R. Booth, 171 U. S. 450, 460.
The court will take judicial notice of familiarnatural

ATLANTIC,.GULF &c. CO. v. PHILIPPINE ISLANDS. i9219 U. S.

Argument for Appellant and Plaintiff in Error.

phenomena.and of natural laws which are'matters of general knowledge, such as those of meteorology, physical
geography, wave action and the prevalent liability to typhoons'in the waters surrounding the Philippine archipelago, and known elimatic conditions. McGhee Irrigating Ditch Co. v. Hudson, 21 S. W. Rep. 125; The Conqueror,
166 U. S. 110, 134. The interval of a fortnight or so between the proximate efficient cause and the ultimate result
is of no importance. See Insurance Co. v. Boon, supra.
The liability of the defendant is not affected by paragraph 5 of the specifications.
The responsibility of the contractor for damages, arising
from wave action as an independent cause, so far as it is
based on paragraph 5 of the specifications, is expressly
limited to certain specific forms of damage, and leave7 the
responsibility for other resultant damages subj-'t to t,
general rule.
The supplemental agreements constitute an important
additional support for plaintiff's cause of action.
The question of ambiguity is in the contract, and not
in the pleading.
If the provisions of the contract are ambiguous and require interpretation they cannot be settled by demurrer.
If failure to state a cause of action is due in any respect to
latent ambiguities in the contract, plaintiff can introduce
evidence to remove these ambiguities. Clay v. Field, 138
U. S.464, 480.
Plaintiff cannot be deprived of the right to show whether
he has a cause of action or not.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Denison for the appellee,
and defendant in error:
As the break of May 28 was due directly to wave actio.n
and pressure of the revetment, and as those specific causes
are charged upon the contractors by the express ter.as of
the contract, no further inquiry into prior contributing

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

causes can be had. •Dudgeon v. Pembroke, L. R. 2 App.
Cas. 284, 297; S. C., L. R. 9 Q. B. 581, 595; Wilson v.
The Xantho, L. R. 12 App. Cas. 503, 509; Insurance Co.
v. Adams, 123 U. S. 67; Liverpool Steam Co. v. Phoenix
Ins. Co., 129 U. S. 397, 438; Northwest Transp. Co. v.
Insurance Co., 41 Fed. Rep. 793, 800; 2 Arnould on Mar.
Ins., 6th ed., 737, 753; Hildyard, Mar. Ins. 269.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action upon a contract for an extension to the
Luneta of the city of Manila. Both courts below decided
for the Government, the defendant, upon demurfer to
the complaint. Abridged, the allegations are these: A
contract for the work was made on July 24, 1905. On
May 1, 1906, about 200 feet of bulkhead and rock revet•ment were displaced by pressure from the inside fill and
moved about twenty feet into the Bay of Manila, so that
a large quantity of the fill that had been pumped behind
the bulkhead escaped into the bay. On May 18, before
the break could be repaired, a severe typhoon occurred,
and the bulkhead and rock revetment, being without the
support of the inside fill, were destroyed for about 1800
feet by the pressure of the rock revetment and the wind
and waves from the outside, and a large additional quantity of the inside fill escaped. The question. is which party
must bear the last-mentioned loss. If the first break had'
not happened no damage would have bebo. done by the
typhoon. -The plaintiff sets forth the cost of repairing
the damages of May 18 and seeks to recover it in this suit.
The specifications of the contract contain the f6llowing:
"5. The contractor will be responsible for damages td'
the bulkhead and revetment arising from wave :action or
from pressure of the revetment against the timber structire; but if. a break is caused by pressure resulting, from

ATLANTIC, GULF &c. CO. v. PHILIPPINE ISLANDS. 21
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the mud fill, the repairs to the structure will be paid for
by the Government at the prices specified in the contract;
provided that the specifications have been fully complied

with.."
"12.

'All lossea of dredged material from the
fills, excepting those due to failure of the bulkheads from
pressure of the mud fill as stated in Article 5, will be measured as carefully as conditions will permit and the computed amounts deducted from the statement for the final
payment."
On May 24 a supplemental contract was signed. It
recited that the repairs made necessary by the break of
May 1 ought to be paid for by the Government; that the
-original project was modified so as to fill the space that
had given way with rock, with clay, etc., for the interstices;
and that the change would either increase or diminish
the cost. It then agreed that the plaintiff should make the
repairs and the Government would pay the actual and
reasonable cost, with certain qualifications, plus fifteen
per centum, which last was to cover all other items, including profit. This referred to the first damage only. On
the neit day, May 25, the Government director telegraphed to Commissioner Forbes "'For most bf typhoon
damage I hold contractors responsible; they claim Government responsible for all on account delay repairing first
break, but wish to make repairs in manner authorized, for
first break leaving settlement of liability to be determined
later. Repairs ,hould be made at once, but in view of contract requirement
do not see how contractors
can be authorized proceed before determiiation of liability." The answer approved "authorizing contractors to
proceed immediately to make repairs on, lines indicated,
with the understanding that all rights reserved in regard
to adjudication of liabilities." These telegrams were communicated to the plaintiff, and it was authorized to proceed to make repairs in the manner outlined in the agree.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 V. S.

ment of May 24. It did so and the Government now
refuses to pay.
It will be understood that this case is in no way concerned with the possible difference in cost between the
mode of repair adopted and that which might have been
followed under the original contract. - The question here
is which party is responsible for the repairs, assuming no
such difference to exist. We need not consider whether
the effect of all that we have recited was or was not to
substitute the new mode and new cost for the old as that
which the parties left at risk when they agreed that the
plaintiffs should go on and do the work. If the plaintiff
should have any claim for the excess alone, if any,, over
the cost that would have been incurred under the original
plan it is not suing for it here.
Both sides found their case on the division of losses made
by the specification quoted. On the one hand, the accident would not have happened but for the pressure from
the mud fill, on the other, the more immediate cause was
wave action and the pressure of the revetment against the
timber structure, the effects of which the contractor was
to bear. We agree. with the Court below that the contractor must, bear the loss. The question is not whether
the responsibility of the Government might not have extended to the later consequences had it originally been a
Wrongdoer, and had it been sued in tort. The question is
to what extent did the Government assume a risk which,
but for the contract, would not have fallen upon it at all.
The contract qualified the relation only cautiously and in
.part. If the break was caused by pressure from the mud
fill thi Governnment agreed to pay for repairs to the structure. That was all.
But for the addition in 12 quoted above it might be
doubted whether 'structure' meant anything but the
bulkhead and revetment. But Article 12 extends the
Government liability to loss of dredged materials due to

ATLANTIC, GULF &c. CO. v. PHILIPPINE ISLANDS. 23
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

such a break. It is suggested that the reason for the
Government undertaking was that the plan was made by
the Government engineers. It may have been. But the
plaintiff was content to work upon' that plan; it, not the
Government, was doing the work, and it took the risk so
far as the contract did not make a change. The Government could not be charged by it with negligence or with
causing the first break. That was only something for repairing which the Government had promised to pay.
Whatever the Government had not promised to pay for
the contractor had to do in order to offer the completed
work which it had agreed to furnish. The case is stronger
for the Government than those upon policies of insurance
where courts refuse to look behind the immediate cause
to remoter negligence of the insured. General Mutual
Insurance Co. v. Sherwood, 14 How. 351, 366; Orient In-'surance Co. v. Adams, 123 U. S. 67; Dudgeon v. Pembroke,
2 App. Cas. 284, 295. Here, as we have said, the plaintiff
cannot charge the defendant with negligence, the immediate event was one of which the plaintiff took the risk, on
general principles of contract it took that risk unless it
was agreed otherwise, and it does not matter to the result
whether we say that we cannot look farther back than -the
immediate cause, or that the undertaking of the Government did not extend to ulterior consequences, not specified, of the break for repairing which it undertook to pay,
but which it did not cause.
Judgment affirmed.

