CHICAGO, R. I. & PAC. RY. CO. v. ARKANSAS. 453
219 U. S.

Syllabus.

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND AND PACIFIC .RAILWAY COMPANY v. STATE OF ARKANSAS.
ERROR

TO THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF THE

STATE

OF

ARKANSAS.
No. 50. Argued Novenber 11, 1910.-Decided February 20, 1911.
A State is under an obligation to establish necessary and reasonable
regulations for the safety of all engaged in business or domiciled
within its limits, and passengers on trains of interstate carriers are
entitled while within a State to the same protection of valid local
laws as are citizens of the State.
The States have never surrendered the power to care for the public
safety; and the validity of police statutes enacted to that end which
are not purely arbitrary or in conflict with a power granted to the
general government cannot be questioned in Federal courts.
A state regulation that is uniform on all railroads of the class to which
it is applicable is not unconstitutional as denying equal protection
of the law because it doeg not apply to railroads less than fifty miles
in length. The classification is a reasonable one.
A state statute prescribing a not unreasonable number for the crews of
freight trains is not an obstruction to, or burden on, interstate commerce, but an aid thereto; and so held that the "full crew" act of
Arkansas is not unconstitutional under the commerce clause of the
Federal Constitution, Congress not having acted in regard thereto.
While Congress may in its discretion take under its charge the subject of equipment of interstate trains, until it does so the States may
prescribe proper police regulations in regard thereto without violating the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution.
86 Arkansas, 412, affirmed.

facts, which involve the constitutionality of a law
of Arkansas relating to equipment of railway trains, are
THE

stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

219 U. 8.

Mr. Thonas L. Buzbee and Mr. Laurence Maxwell, with
whom Mr. Edward S. Pierce and Mr. Erasmus C. Lindley
were on.the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The full crew act of Arkansas is unconstitutional because it undertakes to regulate interstate commerce and
is repugnant to § 8, Art. I of the Constitution of the
United States. Sherlock v. Alling, 93 U. S. 102; Hall V.
DeCuir, 95 U. S. 487; Railway Co. v. Husen 95 U. S.465;
Coast Line R. R. Co. v.
Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; A tl.
Wharton, 207 U. S.328; Act of February 4, 1887; Tex. &

Pac. Ry.- Co. v. Int. Comm. ,Comm., 162 U. S.197; Act of
March 2, 1893; Johnson V. So. Pac. Ry. Co., 196 U. S.1;
Act of March 3, 1901; Act of March 3, 1903; Act of February 23, 1905; Joint Resolution of June 30, 1906; Act of
March 4,1907; Rep. Int. Comm. Comm., 1905, p. 78; Act
of April 22, 1908; Act of June 29, 1906; Sinnot v. Mobile
Pilot Comm., 22 How. 227; Henderson v. New York, 93
U. S.274; Inman Steamship Co. v. Tinker, 94 U. S.238;
Bond v. Turck, 95 U. S.463; Wisconsin v. Duluth, 96
U. S.387; Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S.465; Stoutenburgh
v. Hennick, 129 U. S.148; G., C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v., Hefley,
158 U. S.98; Int. Comm. Comm. v. Detroit Ry. Co., 167
U. S.633; Asbell v. Kansas, 209 U. S.251; State v..C., M.
& St. P. Ry. Co., 117 N. W. Rep. 686; State v. Mo. Pac.
Ry. Co., 111 S.W. Rep. 500.
The act, as applied to interstate commerce, is arbitrary,
unreasonable and contrary to § 8, Art. I, and the due
process clause of § 1, of the Fourteenth Amendment. St.
L., I. M. & S. Ry. Co. v. Taylor, 210 U. $. 281; Railroad

Co. v. Huen, 95 U. S.465; Houston & Tex. Cent. v. Mayes,
201 U. S.321; McNeill v. Southern Railway Co., 202 U. S..
543.
The act is repugnant to the equal protection 'clause of
the Constitution. Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S.356;
G., C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150; A., T. & S. F.
Ry. Co. v. Matthews, .174 U. S.96; Cotting v. Stock Yards

CHICAGO. R. I. & PAC. RY. CO. v. ARKANSAS. 455
219 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Co., 183 U. S. 79; Connolly v. Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S.
540.
Mr. W. L. Terry and Mr. Hal L. Norwood, Attorney
General of the State of Arkansas, for defendant in error:
The full crew act of Arkansas is in no just sense a
regulation of interstate commerce, but is purely a police
regulation, and as such is not repugnant to § 8, Art. I, of
the Constitution of the United States. Gibbons v. Ogden,
9 Wheat. 1; Walling v. Michigan, 116 U. S. 446; Hall v.
DeCuir, 95 U. S. 485; RailroadCo. v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465;
Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465; Sherlock v. Alling, 93
U. S. 99; Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47; Nashville &c.
Ry. Co. v. Alabama, 128 U. S. 96; Mobile County v.
Kimball, 102 U. S. 691; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. James, 162
U. S. 656; Chicago &c. R. R. Co. v. Solan, 169 U. S. 133;
Gladson v. Minnesota, 166 U. S. 427; N. Y., N. H. & H.
Ry. Co. v. New York, 165 U. S. 628; Erb v. Morasch, 177
U. S. 544; L. S. & M. S. R. R. Co. v. Ohio, 133 U. S. 286;
Henningtonv. Georgia, 163 U. S. 299; Piercev. Van Dusen,
98 Fed. Rep. 693; Southern Ry. Co. v. King, 217 U. S.
524; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 27; Mo. Pac.
Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 262; Thorp v. Railway Co.,
27 Vermont, 129; G., C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Hefley, 158
U. S. 98; Sinnot v. Commissioners, 22 How. 227; Wisconsin
v. Duluth, 96 U. S. 387; Asbell v. Kansas, 209 U. S. 251;
Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S. 137; M., K. & T. 'Ry. Co. v.
Haber, 169 U. S. 613; Schlemmer v. Railway Co., 205
U. S. 10.
The act as applied to interstate commerce is a rightful
exercise of the police power inherent in the State; is
neither arbitrary, unreasonable nor contrary to § 8,
Art. I, and the due process clause of § 1, of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the, United
States. Atl. Coast Line R. R. Co. v. No. Car. R. R.
Comm., 206 U. S. 1; 2 Tiedman on State and Federal

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

219 U. S.

Control, 987; Norwood v. Baker, 172 U. S. 269; Wisconsin
& M. P. R. R. Co. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287; L. S. & M.
S. Ry. Co. v. Smith, 173 U. S. 684; St. L. & S. F. R. R.
Co. v. Gill, 156 U. S. 649; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466;
Minn. & St. Louis R. R. Co. v. Minnesota, 186 U. S. 257;
Dow v. Beidelman, 125 U. S. 680; Chicago & G. T. R. R.
Co. v. Welman, 143 U. S. 339; Covingtbn & Louistille
Turnpike Co. V. Sanford, 164 U. S. 578; Freund on Police
Power, §§ 63, 549, 550; H. & T. C. Ry. Co. v. Mayes, 201
U. S. 321; Cooley, Const. Lim., 831; License Cases, 5
How. 579; Louisville &c. R. R. Co. v. Kentucky, 183 U. S.
518; Austin v. Tennessee, 179 U. S. 349; Pennsylvania Ry.
Co. v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477; Railroad Co. v. Fuller; 17
Wall. 460; L. S. & M. S. Ry. Co. v. New York, 165 U. S.
629; Illinois &c. R. R. Co. v. Illinois, 163 U. S. 142; State
v. Indiana &c. R. R. Co., 133 Indiana, 69; Cooley v. Board
of Wardens, 12 How. 299; The Jane Gray, 21 How. .184;
Steamship-Co. v. Jolliffe, 2 Wall. 450; Olson v. Smith, 195
U. S. 332; The William Law, 14 Fed. Rep. 792..
The act as construed by the Supreme Court of Arkansas is not repugnant to the equal protection clause of,
the Constitution of the United States. Atl. Coast Line:
R. R. Co. v. Mazursky, 216 U. 5. 122; Hammond Packing
Co. v. Arkansas, 212 U. S. 322; Armour Packing Co. v.
Lacey, 200 U. S. 226; Kahrer v. Stewart, 197 U. S. 60;
Pullman Co. v. Adams, 189 U. S. 426; Osborne v. Florida,
164 U.' S. 650; C., B. & Q. Ry. CQ. v. Iowa, 94 U. S. 155;
Railway Co. v. May, 194 U. S. 267; G., C. & S. F. Ry. Co.
v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150; Atchison &c..Ry. Co. v. Matthews
174 U. S. 96; Peik v. Chicago &c. Ry. Co., 94 U. S. 164;
People v. Smith, 32 L. R. A. 857; State v. Gerhardt, 33
L. R. A. 319; Interstate Ry. Co. v. Massachusetts, 207
U. S. 88; Missouri &c. Ry. Co. v. Mackey, 127 U. S. 205;
Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 385; Orient Ins. Co. v. Daggs,
172 U. S. 561; Western Turf Assn. v. Greenburg, 204 U. S.
362; Hayes v. Missouri, 120 U. S. 71; Jones v. Brin, 165

CHICAGO, R. I. & PAC. RY. CO. v. ARKANSAS. 457
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 182; Mogoun v. Illinois Savings Bank, 170 U. S.
294; Heath v. Worst; 207 U. S. 354; Welch v. Swasey, 214
U. S. 91; McLean v. State, 211 U. S. 539; St. Louis Coal
Co. v. Illinois, 185 U. S. 203.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

Two actions were instituted by the State of Arkansas in
one of its courts against the Chicago, Rock Island and
Pacific Railway Company, a corporation of Illinois engaged in railroad business in several States. The company, it was agreed, entered Arkansas for purposes of
railroad business, complying with all the conditions of the
laws of that State authorizing foreign railroad corporations to do such business within its limits.
The complaint alleged that the defendant company on
a named day and in violation of the law of Arkansas
operated and ran in that State a freight train of more than
twenty-five cars without having equipped such train with
as many as three brakemen; and that the railroad over
which the train was operated was more than fifty miles in
length. The State asked a judgment in each case against
the railway company for $500. The company filed in each
case both an answer and a general demurrer.
The suits were based on an Arkansas statute (Ark.
Laws, 1907, No. 116, p. 295) prescribing the minimum
number of employ~s to be used in the operation of freight
trains and providing a penalty for violating its provisions.
The statute is in these words: "§ 1. No railroad company or officer of court owning or operating any line or
lines of railroad in this State and engaged in- the transportation of freight over its line or lines shall equip any of
its said freight trains with a crew consisting of less than an
engineer, a fireman, a conductor, and three brakemen, regardless of any modern equipment of automatic couplers
and air brakes, except as hereinafter provided. § 2. This

. OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

act shall not apply to any railroad company or officer of
court whose line or lines are less than fifty miles in length,
nor to any railroad in this State, regardless of the length
of the said lines, where said freight train so operated shall
consist of less than twenty-five cars, it being the purpose
of this act to require all railroads in this State whose line
or lines are over fifty miles in length engaged in hauling a
freight train consisting of twenty-five cars or more, to
equip the same with a crew consisting of not less than an
engineer, a fireman, a conductor, and three brakemen, but
nothing in this act shall be construed so as to prevent any
railroAd company or officer of court from adding to or increasing its crew beyond the number set out in this act.
§ 3. Any railroad company or officer of court violating
any of the provisions of this act shall be fined for each
offense not less than one hundred dollars nor more than
five hundred dollars, and each freight train so illegally run
shall constitute a separate offense. Provided, the penalties of this act shall not apply during strikes of men in
train service of lines involved." Ark. Laws, 1907, No. 116.
The railway company's answer in each case contained
six paragraphs. The court sustained the demurrer to
paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6 (the defendant excepting), and
thereupon, by stipulation, the two actions were consolidated for the purpose of a trial on paragraph five, which
was as follows: "Defendant states that its said train was
equipped with automatic couplers and air brakes, so that
the cars thereof could be coupled and uncoupled without
the necessity of brakemen going between the cars, and
could be stopped by the application of the air brakes by
the engineer of said train without the intervention or assistance of the conductor or brakeman, as required by act
of Congress and the order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission made thereunder; that it had employed on
said train a conductor and two brakemen and that the
employment of another brakeman on said train was un-

CHICAGO, R. I. & PAC. RY. CO. v. ARKANSAS. 459
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

necessary, because there were no duties connected with
the running and operating of said train to be performed
by a third brakeman, and said act, in attempting to require the defendant to employ three brakemen on said
train, attempted to require the defendant to expend a
large amount of money for a useless and unnecessary purpose and to deprive the defendant of its property without
due process of law, and is therefore in violation of and in
conflict with Section One of the Fourteenth Amendment
to the Constitution of the United States."
The consolidated causes were by agreement of the parties tried by the court. The result in each case was a
judgment against the railway company for $100. Upon
appeal by the company to the Supreme Court of Arkansas
the action of the trial court was affirmed. 86 Arkansas,
412.
In the state court the railway company- assailed the
act in question as being in conflict with'the Fourteenth
Amendment, as well as of the commerce clause, of the
Constitution of the United States. But the Supreme
Court of Arkansas overruled these objections, holding
that the act was not to be taken as inconsistent with the
Constitution of the United States. The oase is here for
review on the question whether the statute is in violation
of the Constitution.
In our judgment, these questions are concluded by
former decisions and no extended discussion of them is
now required. Yet, an examination of some of the decisions will be proper in order to show the precise grounds
on which this court has determined whether state enactments of a particular kind were regulations of interstate
commerce or in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
A leading case on the general subject is Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465, 474, 482, which involved the validity
under the Constitution of the United States of a statute
of Alabama making it a misdemeanor for an engineer to

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

operate, in that State, a train of cars used for the transportation of persons or freight without first undergoing
an examination before and obtaining a license from a
board appointed by the Governor. The statute provided
that before issuing a license the board should inquire into
the character and habits of the applicant; that no license
should be granted if he was found to be of reckless or intemperate habits; that any license granted should be forfeited if, upon notice, the engineer was found to have been
intoxicated within six hours before or during the time he
was engaged in running a railroad engine; and that the
license should be revoked or canceled if the engineer was
ascertained from any cause to be unfit or incompetent.
That case related to an engineer whose ordinary run was
over the Mobile and Ohio Railroad Company's road between Mobile, Alabama, and Corinth, Mississippi. He
never handled the engine of any train between points
wholly within Alabama. As an employ6 of the company he
also operated an engine drawing a passenger train between,
St. Louis and Mobile. It was contended that the statute
was repugnant to the commerce clause of the Constitution
of the United States. This court referred to the decision
in Sherlock v. Ailing, 93 U.,S. 99, 102, which involved the
question whether an Indiana statute authorizing the personal representative of a deceased person whose death was
caused by the wrongful act or omission of another, could
be applied where the death was the result of a collision between steamboats navigating the Ohio River. And, speaking by Mr. Justice Matthews, it said: "Legislation, in
a great variety of ways may affect commerce and persons engaged in it without constituting a regulation of it
within the meaning of the Constitution. . . . And it
may be said generally, that the legislation of a State, not
-directed against commerce or any of its regulations, but
kelating to the rights, duties and liabilities of citizens, and
only indirectly and remotely affecting the operations of

CHICAGO, R. I. & PAC. RY. CO. v. ARKANSAS. 461
219 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

commerce, is of obligatory force upon citizens within its
territorial jurisdiction, whether on land or water, or engaged in commerce, foreign or interstate, or in any othet
pursuit,"' The court proceeded: "In conclusion, we find,
therefore, first, that the statute of Alabama, the validity
of which is under consideration, is not, considered in its
own nature, a regulation of interstate commerce, even
when applied as in the case under consideration; secondly,
that it is properly an act of legislation Within the scope of
the admitted power reserved to the State to regulate the
relative rights and tiuties of persons being and acting
within its territorial jurisdiction, intended to operate so
as to secure for the public, safety of person and property;
and, thirdly, that, so far as it affects transactions of commerce among the States, it does so only indirectly, incidentally, and remotely, and not so as to burden or impede
them, and, in the particulars in which it touches those
transactions at all, it is not in conflict with any express
enactment of Congress on the subject, nor contrary to
any intention of Congress to be presumed from its silence."
In Nashville &c. Railway v. Alabama, 128 U. S. 96,
101, the question was as to the validity, so far as interstate commerce was concerned, of a statute of Alabama
enacted for the protection of the travelling public against
accidents caused by color-blindness and defective vision
on the part of railroad employ6s, and which provided for
an examination before a state board of any person seeking a position that involved the running or management
of a railroad train. In that case the railway company
operated its lines through several States and employed as
a train conductor one who had not obtained a certificate
of his fitness so far as cofor-blindness and visual powers
were concerned. After referring to Smith v. Alabama,
above cited, as holding that the statute of Alabama, involved in that case, was not displaced by a'iy express

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

enactment of Congress in the exercise of its power over
commerce, and that until so displaced it remained "as the
law governing carriers in the discharge of their obligations, whether engaged in purely internal commerce of the
State, or in commerce among the States," this court,
speaking by Mr. Justice Field, said: "The same observation may be made with respect to the provisions of the
state law for the examination of parties to be employed
on railways with respect to their powers of vision. Such
legislation is not directed against commerce, and only
affects it incidentally, and therefore cannot be called,
within the meaning of the Constitution, a regulation of
commerce."
But the case more nearly analogous to the present one
is that of N. Y., N. H. & H. Railroad v. New York, 165
U. S. 628, 631, 632-633, where the court was required to
determine the validity under the Constitution of the
United States of a statute of New York regulating the
heating of steam passenger cars and directing guards and
guard-posts to be placed on railroad bridges and trestles
and the approaches thereto. The statute provided that
no steam-railroad doing business in New York after a
named day should heat its passenger cars on other than
mixed trains by any stove or furnace kept inside of the
car or suspended therefrom, except that ih case of accident or other emergency such stove or furnace, with necessary fuel, could be temporarily used; that where any
cars had been equipped with apparatus to heat by steam,
hot water or hot air from the locomotive or from a special
car the stove then in use could be retained and used when
the car was standing still; and, that the statute should not
apply to railroads less than fifty miles in length nor to the
use of stoves of a pattern and kind to be approved by the
state railroad commissioners for cooking purposes in dining cars. The New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad. Company, a Connecticut corporation, during a cer-

CHICAGO, R. I. & PAC. RY. CO. v. ARKANSAS. 463
2,19 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tain period named, ran trains of passenger cars over its
route from the city of New York to Hartford and from
Hartford to New York, and on through trains as well as
on its road in New York other than on mixed trains, the
.mpany heated its cars by stoves and furnaces kept
within the cars. An action was brought against the railway ompany for violation of the above statute, and there
was a verdict in favor of the State for the.penalties imposed. That judgment was affirmed by the Court of Appeals of New York. 142 N. Y. 646.
It was contended in that case that the New York statute was repugnant both to the commerce clause of the
Constitution and to the Fourteenth Amendment. In the
opinion of this court, the principle announced in Gibbom
v. Ogden, 9 Wheat, 1, 211, that the mere grant to Congress
of the power to regulate commerce did not of its own force
and without legislation by Congress impair the authority
of the States to establish reasonable regulations for the
protection of the health, the lives or the
safety of their
people was reaffirmed and it was said: "The statut'e in
question had for its object to protect all persons travelling
in the State of New York on passenger cars moved by the
agency of steam against ,the perils attending a particular
mode of heating such cars. There may be a reason to
doubt the efficacy of regulations of that kind. But that
was a matter for the State to determine. We know from
the face of the statute that it has a real, substantial relation to an object as to which the State is competent to
legislate, namely, the personal security of those who are
passengers on cars used within it8 limits. Why may not
regulations to that end be made applicable, within a
State, to the cars of railroad companies engaged in interstate commerce as well as to the cars used wholly within
such State? Persons travelling on interstate trains are as
much entitled, while within the State, to the protection of
that State, as those who travel on domestic trains. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of 'the Court.

219 U. S.

statute in question is not directed against interstate commerce. Nor is it within the meaning of the Constitution a
regulation of commerce, although it controls, in some degree, the conduct of those engaged in such commerce. So
far as it may affect interstate commerce, it is to be regarded as legislation in aid of commerce and enacted under
.the power remaining with the State to regulate the relative
rights and duties of all persons and corporations within the
limits. Until displaced by such national legislation as
Congress may rightfully establish under its power to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several
States, the validity of the statute, so far as the commerce
clause of the Constitution of the United States is concerned, cannot be questioned."
It was also contended that the statute, if enforced according to its terms, would make rapid transportation
diicult, if not impossible, and that to compel an interstate train to conform to its provisions would be a wholly
unnecessary burden on interstate passengers. After observing .that possible inconveniences could not affect the
question of the -power in each State to make such regulations for the safety of passengers on interstate trains
as in the judgment of the State, all things considered,
were reasonable, appropriate or necessary, this court said
(165 U. S. 633): "Inconveniences of this character cannot
be avoided so long as-each State has plenary authority
within its territorial limits to provide for the safety of the
public according to its own views of necessity and public
policy and so long as Congress deems it wise not to establish regulations on the subject that would displace any
inconsistent regulations of the State covering the same
ground." In reference to the contention that the statute
denied the equal protection of the laws, as prescribed
-by the Fourteenth Amendment, the court said (p. 633):
"This contention is based upon that clause of the statute
declaring that it shall not apply to railroads less than fifty

CHICAGO, R. 1. & PAC. RY. CO. v. ARKANSAS. 465
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

miles in length. No doubt the main object of the statute
was to provide for the s#fety of passengers traveling on
what are commonly called trunk or through lines, connecting distant or populous parts of the country, and on
which the perils incident to traveling are greater than on
short, local lines. But, as suggested in argument, a road
only fifty miles in length would seldom have a sleeping car
attached to its trains; and passengers traveling on roads
of that kind do not have the apprehension ordinarily felt
by passengers on trains regularly carrying sleeping cars or
having many passenger coaches, on account of the burning of cars in case of their derailment or in case of collision.
In any event, there is no such discrimination against companies having more than fifty miles of road as to justify
the contention that there had been a denial to the companies named in the act of the equal protection of the
laws. The statute is uniform in its operation upon all
railroad companies doing business in the State of the class
to which it is made applicable."
The principles announced in the above cases require an
affirmance of the judgment of the Supreme Court of Arkansas. It is not too much to say that the State was under
an obligation to establish, such regulations as were necessary or reasonable for the safety of all engaged in business
or.domiciled within.its limits. Beyond doubt, passengers
on interstate carriers while within Arkansas are as fully
entitled to the benefits of valid local laws enacted for the
public safety as are citizens of the State. Local statutes
directed to such an end have their source in the power
of the State, never surrendered, of caring for. the public
safety of all within its jurisdiction; and the validity under
the Constitution of the United States of such statutes is
not to be questioned in a Federal court unless they are
clearly inconsistent with some power granted to the
General Government or with some right secured by that
instrument or unless they are purely arbitrary in their
VOL. ccxix-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

nature. The statute here involved is not in any proper
sense a regulation of interstate commerce nor does it deny
the equal protection of the laws. Upon its face, it must be
taken as not directed against interstate commerce, but as
having been enacted in aid, not in obstruction, of such
commerce and for the protection of those engaged in such
commerce. Under the evidence, there is admittedly some
room for -controversy as to whether the statute is or was
necessary; but it cannot be said that it is so unreasonable
as to justify the court in adjudging that it is merely. an
arbitrary exercise of power and not germane to the objects
which evidently the state legislature had in vieW. It is a
means employed by the State to accomplish an. object
which it is entitled to accomplish, and such means, even if
deemed unwise, are not to be condemned or disregarded
by the courts, if they haste a real relation to that object.
Apd the statute being applicable alike to all belonging to
the same class, there is no basis for the contention that
there has been a denial of th6 equal protection of the laws.
Undoubtedly, Congress in its discretion, may take entire
charge of the whole subject of the equipment of interstate
cars, and establish such regulations as are necessary and
proper for the protection of those engaged in interstate
commerce. But it has not done so in respect of the number of employds to whom may be committed the actual
management of interstate trains of.any kinid. It has not
established any regulations on that subject, and until it
does the statutes of the State, not in their nature arbitrary,
and which really relate to the rights and duties of all.
within the jurisdiction, must control. this principle has
been firmly established, and is a most wholesome one under our systems of government, Federal and state. In
addition to the cases above cited, Mobile Co. v. Kimball,
102 U. S. 691; G., C..& S. F. Ry. Co. v. Hefley, 158 U. S.
98; W. U* Tel. Co. v. Jame&, 162 U. S. 656; Chicago Xc.
R. R. Co. v. Solan, 169 U. S. 133; W. U. Tel. Co. v.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. v. MOTTLEY. 467
'219 U. S.

Syllabus.

Kansa8, 216 U. S.27; Reid v. Colorado, 187 U... 137; and
M., K. & T. Ry. Co. v. Haber, 169 U. S. 613, may be consulted.
Judgment affirmed.

LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY v. MOTTLEY.
ERROR TO THE'COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.

No. 246.' Submitted January 9, 1911.-Decided February 20, 1911.
The intent of Congress is to be gathered from the words of the act
according to their ordinary acceptation, and the act should be construed in the light of circumstances existing at the time it was passed.
Personal hardships cannot be considered, nor can the court mold the
statute to meet its views of.jtce in a particular case.
The court must have regard to all the words used by Congress in a
statute and give effect to them as far as possible; and the introduction of a new word into a statute indicates an intent to cure a defect
in, and suppress an evil not covered by,:the former law.
The prohibition of the act of IFebruary 4, 1887, c. 104, § 2, 24 Stat.
379, as arhended by the act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584,
against a carrier charging a different compensation:from that specified in its published tariff extends to the granting of interstate
tansportation by carriers as compensation for injuries, services,
advertising or property; the statute means that transportation shall
be paid for by all alike and only in cash.
The purpose of Congress in enacting the amendatory act of June 29,
1906, was to cut up by the roots every form of discrimination in
rates, not specially excepted, and the act applied to existing contracts and rendered those which were discriminatory illegal.
The court cannot on equitable grounds add an exception to the classes
to which a statute clearly applies if Congress forbears to do so.
rhe power of Congress to regulate commerce among the States and
with foreign nations is complete and unrestricted except by limitations in the Constitution itself, and extends to rendering impossible

