OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

219 U. S.

of legislati n,render of no avail the exercise by Congress,
to the full extent authorized by the Constitution, of its
power to regulate commerce. No power of Congress can
be thus restricted. The mischiefs that would result from
a different interpretation of the Constitution will be readily
perceived.
In our opinion, the relief asked by the plaintiffs must,
upon principle and authority, be denied; that the railroad
company rightly refused, after the passage of the commerce act, further to comply with the agreement of 1871;
and, that the decree requiring performance of its proviions, by issuing annual passes, was erroneous.
Whether, without enforcing the contract in suit, the
defendants in error may, by some form of proceeding.
against the railroad company, recover or restore the rights
they-had when the railroad collision occurred is a question
not before us, and we express no opinion on it.
The judgment is reversed, and the cause is remanded
for such further proceedings as may be deemed proper, not
inconsistent with the views herein expressed.
Reversed.

CHICAGO, INDIANAPOL TS AND LOUISVILLE
RAILWAY COMPANY - UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 74. Submitted December 16, 1910.-Decided February 20, 1911.
Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company v. Mottley, anie, p. 467, followed to effect that under the act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat.
584, amending the act of February 4, 1887, c. 104, § 2, 24 Stat. 379,
a carrier cannot accept any compensation other than cash for interstate transportation, and. the delivery of such transportation in
exchange for advertising is a violation. of. the act; and it is no defense that such a transaction is permitted hv A. RtjR t,Rt1tP..

CHI., IND. & L. RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 487
219 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

No state enactment can avail when the subject has been covered by
an act of Congress acting within'its constitutional powers. In such
a case the act of Congress is paramount and the state law must give
way.

THE facts, which involve the construction of provisions
of the Interstate Commerce Act relating to payment of
fare on railways, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. E. C. Field, with whom Mr. H. R. Kurrie was on
the brief, for appellant:
There is no unreasonable discrimination in contracting
with certain publications and refusing to do so with others.
The law recognizes the right of a carrier to discriminate
between persons, the only restraint upon such discriminations being that they shall not be unreasonable. Cincinnati &c. Ry. Co. v. Int. Comm. Comm., 162 U. S. 197;
Int. Comm. Comm. v. Baltimore &c. R. R. Co., 145 U..S.
263; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Adams, 192 U. S. 440;
Texas & Pac. Ry. Co. v. Int. Comm. Comm., 162 U. S.
197, 220.
There is nothing in the record to show that there was
any discrimination by the appellant. Appellant. insists
that it has the right to make this kind of a contract with
publications of its own selection,. provided, always, that
it actually receives the money value of the transportation
which it gives. Advertising is just as essential to successful operation as good train service.
Section 6 does not require the manner in which charges
shall be paid to be stated in the tariffs filed by a carrier.
Int. Comm. Comm. v. Detroit R. R. Co., 167 U. S. 633;
Southern Pacific Co. v. Int. Comm. Comm., 200 U. S.--536.
It has been held that the time when charges shall be paid
is not required to be stated; and that the carrier may require one shipper to pay in advance, and allow another to
pay at destination; and that by so doing it does not unjustly discriminate. Little Rock &c. 1. R. Co. v. St. Louis

OCTO3ER TEI1Th,

1910.

Argument for the United States.

219 U. S.

&c. R. R. Co., 63 Fed. Rep. 775; Oregon &c. R. R. Co. v.
Northern &c. 1. R. Co., 51 Fed. Rep. 465, 472.
It has always been the law that charges may be paid in
money value as well as in money. Marsh v. Union &c.,,
9 Fed. Rep. 873; Miami &c. Ry. Co. v. Port Royal &c.
Ry. Co., 25 S. E. Rep. 153; Gleadell v. Thompson -&c.,
56 N. Y. •194; Beare v. Ropes, Fed. Cas. No. 1192; Snow
v. Carruth, Fed. Cas. No. 13,144; Bancroft v. Peters, 4
Michigan, 619; Relyea v. New Haven &c. Ry. Co., 42 Connecticut, 579; Boggs v. Martin, 13 B. Mon. 239; Page V.
Munroe, 18 Fed. Cas. 10,665; Jones v. Hoyt, 25 Connecticut, 374; Aldrih v. Cargo, 117 Fed. Rep. 757; The Success, 7
Blatch: 551; Woodward v. Int. Comm. Comm., 1 Biss. 403;
Elliott, Railway, 2d ed., 1558; Missouri Pac. Ry. Co'v.
Peru &c* Ry. Co., 87 Pac. Rep. 80; S. C., 85 Pac. Rep. 408;
Curry v. Kansas &c. Ry. Co., 48 Pac. Rep. 579; Dempsey
v. N. Y. Central &c. Ry. Co., 40 N. E. Rep. 867; Chicago &
Alton Ry. Co. v. United States, 156 Fed. Rep. 558.
The insertion of the word "differeiit" does not change.
the legal effect of § 6. Endlich, § 378; McDonald v. Hovey,
110 U. S. 619.
The construction contended for would lead to-absurd
consequences; even checks, drafts or other evidences of
credit could not be received.
Mr. Attorney General Wickersham, with whom Mr.
Barton'Corneau was on the brief, for the United States:
Literally interpreted, § 6 of the- abt to regulate commerce as amended, plainly forbids the acceptance of compensation which is different either in kind or amount from
that specified-in the published tariffs, viz., money; and it
therefore prohibits the exchange of transportation: for
advertising.
The word "different" in the phrase "greater or less or
different compensation" means different in kind. Washington Market Co. v. Hoffman, 101 U. S. 112, 115; End-

CHI., IND. & L. RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 489
219 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

lich, § 396; United States v. Bowen, 100 U. S. 508. Inter.
Comm. Comm. Circular No. 2-A of September 15, 1906;
State v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 126 N. W. Rep. 859.
Whether or not the contracts in question, or any of
them, actually work discriminations or preferences contrary to §§ 2 and 3, the practice of bartering commodities
for transportation, if once permitted, will invite frauds
upon the law, and cannot fail ultimately to result in all
sorts of discriminations and preferences. This fact not
only explains the insertion of the word "different" in § 6,
but furnishes a conclusive reason why this court should
aot depart from the literal interpretation of that section.
Tn re Persons Free or at Reduced Rates,. 5 I. C. C. Rep.
69; Ex parte Koehler, 31 Fed. Rep. 315, 321; In re Charge
to Grand Jury, 66 Fed. Rep. 146; Int. Comm. Comm. v.
B. & 0. R. R. Co., 145 U. S. 263, 282; Denaby Colliery Co.
v. Manchester Ry. Co:, 11 App. Cas. 97, 120; Wight v.
United States, 167 U. S. 512; Armour Packing Co. v.
United States, 209 U. S. 56.
Whether this or any other court has ever upheld a preference given to some particular patron and not open
to all who are similarly situated, Int. Comm. Comm. v.
B. & 0. R. R. Co., 145 U. S. 263; Int. Comm. Comm. v.
Alabama Midland Ry. Co., 168 U. S. 144; L. & N. R. R.
Co. v. Behlmer, 175 U. S. 648; Northern PacificRy. Co. v.
Adams, 192 U. S. 440, are not in point.
. If railroad companies may accept advertising in payment for transportation, then the right of the railroad to
barter transportation for any sort of commodity or any
kind of consideration is at once established. What abuses
it would lead to. no one can tell. As to the necessity for
a literal interpretation of the statute by the courts, see
Union Pacific Ry. Co. v. Goodridge, 149 U. S. 580, 690;
A., T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. United States, 163 Fed.. Rep.
111, 113.
The undoubted purpose of § 6 was to compel carriers to

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

fix rates which would be unifoi in their operation, N.
Y., N. H. & H. R. R. Co. v. Int. Comm. Comm., 200 U. S.
361, 391; T. & P. Ry. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204
U. S. 426, 439, and since the statute in that respect is
remedial, it is "entitled to receive that interpretation
which reasonably accomplishes the great public purpose
which it was enacted to subserve.
The necessity of adopting the literal interpretation of
§ 6 is also shown by a comparison of its.language and purpose with the language and purpose of §§ 2 and 3. Azencan Express Co. v. United States, 212 U. S. 522.
The literal interpretation of § 6 will not cause any of the
inconveniences or inconsistencies suggested by appellant.
It is claimed that the publisher could hand over $500
in money for transportation which could be handed back
for advertising without violating the law, and that it is
absurd to forbid the parties from doing directly what they
could undoubtedly do indirectly. The obvious answeris,
however, such a transaction would be a mere barter of
transportation for advertising, however cleverly its real
nature might be concealed. -The only way in which a
violation of the statute could .be avoided would be by
bona fide purch'ase of transportation or advertising without contemporaneous agreement on: the part of the sbller
to purchase on his part a like amount of advertising or
transportation.
Section 6 undoubtedly requires the kind of compensation to be specified in the published tariffs.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

By the act of Congress -of February 19, 1903, further
regulating commerce with foreign nations and among the
States, as amended by the act of June 29, 1906, it was
provided that whenever the Interstate Commerce Commission had reasonable ground to believe that a common carrier was engaged in carrying passengers or freight between

CHI., IND. & L. RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 491
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

given points at less than the published rates on file or was
committing any discrimination forbidden by law, the
facts could be set forth in a petition in equity to the proper
Circuit Court of the United States, whose duty it was
made summarily to inquire into the circumstances, without formal pleadings and proceedings applicable to ordinary suits in equity. If the court became satisfied upon
investigation that the facts existed as alleged, it was then
by proper orders to enforce the observance of the published
tariffs or direct a discontinuance of the alleged discrimination, with such right of appeal as was then provided by
law to the parties interested in the traffic or to the carrier.
February 19, 1903, 32 Stat. 847, 848, Pt. 1, c. 708; June 29,
1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584.
The present suit was brought by the United States
under that statute against the Chicago, Indianapolis and
Louisville Railway Company, a corporation of Indiana
which operated the lines of railroad known as the Monon
Route, and extending from Chicago through Indiana to
Cincinnati and from Michigan City, Indiana, to Louisville, Kentucky. The railway company was engaged in.
the business of carrying passengers over the above lines.
. The petition alleged that on the twenty-fourth day of
January,, 1907, the defendant made a written contract
with the Frank A. Munsey Company, publisher, at New
York of Munsey's Magazine, which contained, among
other provisions, the following:
"Agreement between'the Monon Route (Chicago, Indianapolis & Louisville Railway Company) and ........
Frank A. Muns~y Co ......... publisher. Entered into
this...... 24 day of January, 1907.
"Whereas, the said publisher issues ........ Munsey's
Magazine ....... a .......... publication, published at
New York City, N. Y., Chicago office 423 Marquette
Building, and which has a regular circulation of ........
643,000 ......... each issue.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"And whereas, the said Monon Route desires to advertise in said publication, which advertising the said
publisher agrees to do upon the following terms and conditions, which are mutually agreed upon:
"1st. The said publisher agrees to publish in said. publication an advertisement of the Monon Route as follows: ........ One page 'ad' (divided as desired) ........
. . . . . . . . . . °
. °
. . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . .• . . . . . . . . . °. . . . ..

. . . °•
. ..°
...
....

..° °. . . . . . ..
° • °

. . °
. . °
. . °
. . °
. .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . i

said advertisement to appear ........ Favorably ........
.one page .....
and occupy a space of not less than. .....
and to be published as desired in issues of said publication.
"2d' In full consideration of the foregoing advertising,
the Monon Route agrees to issue the follo wing nontransferable transportation based on regular published
rate:
....... I........ Trip tickets or mileage ...............
................
° °

....

...
°°°..........

...... °.......°°°°

To the value of ........ Five hundred ........ Dollars
($500 ........ ,) for the personal use of the publisher, his
employ6s or immediate members of his or their families,
which said transportation shall be limited for use not later
than December 31, 1907.
"3d. Under no circumstances must the transportation
issued under this contract be sold or transferred to or used
by any other than the person to whom issued, as such sale,
transfer or use would be a misdemeanor under the law.
"4th. It is understood and agreed that the transportation issued under this contract shall read to points
on the Monon Route, and not to points on any other
road.

.

.

.

Further, should said publisher or any

person named on said tickets allow any other person to
use same or offer to sell, sell or transfer the same, then
said publisher agrees to pay the said Monon Route as a
penalty the full rate of fare which would have been paid

CHI., IND. & L. RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 493
219 U. 1.

Opinion of the Court.

for regular tickets. . . . This contract expires December 31, 1907, unless otherwise stipulated."
The petition also alleged that after that contract was
entered into, and previous to April 3, 1907,.the defendant
railway company, pursuant to the aboe contract, transported over its railway from points in one State to points
in other States the 'employ~s of the Munsey Company
upon trip and mileage tickets issued for their benefit.
That such interstate transportation paid for according
to the company's published rates, amounted to $145.10,
while the only compensation received by- it for transportation previous to May 10, 1907, was the publication
in the March issue of the Munsey Magazine of one-fourth
of a page advertisement of the Monon Route which theparties-valued at $125 ;%
That while the railroad company was thus transporting the Munsey employ~s it contemporaneously transported over its lines between the same points other persons and exacted and received in money from them, in
each instance, the full amount of its published rates and
fares,, the conditions and circumstances of the transportation being the same in the cases of employds and others;
That in accordance with the contract in question the
railway company was, at the date of this suit, still furnishing interstate transportation to the publisher of Munsey's
Magazine and the members of his family and to his employds and the members of their families;
That the railway company had entered into like contracts with other publishers of magazines, newspapers and
similar periodicals to the number of two hundred and
fifty-one, under the terms of which, latter contracts the
company, at the date this suit was commenced, was furnishing interstate transportation over its lines to such'
persons as. were from. time to time designated by the publishers last above mentioned, but not receiving compensation in money in any instance when furnishing trans-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

portation under those contracts for the services rendered
by it; and,
That the above contracts between the railway company and the publishers of magazines and newspapers are
in violation of the act of Congress regulating commerce,
•particularly §§ 2 and 6, and also § 3 of the above act, approved February 19, 1903,-ifi this, that those contracts
require the furnishing of interstate transportation at rates
which, in each instance, "are less than and different"
from the rates contemporaneously exacted from the general . public under substantially similar circumstances and
conditions.
The' company, in its answer, averred that the money
value of the space purchased from the Munsey Company
under the contract was $500 as determined and fixed by
the rate to the public, and that it was to pay therefor $500
in value of passenger transportation issued and based on

regularly published rates, so that the money value of the
advertising space purchased and the money value of the
transportation furnished was the same; and that its arrangements for advertising space with other publications
were based on the "regular published rate." The answer
contains this paragraph: "Defendant admits that it has
entered into a large number of other contracts for advertising space by written contracts providing substantially
the same as the contract with the Munsey Company as
aforesaid, and that in each case, pursuant to .the terms and
conditions of each of said contracts, the publishers named
in said contracts and in each of them sells to this" defendant advertising space in the par money value at the usual
market rate therefor, and that this defendant issues and
pays therefor in transportation 'based on the regular published rates' in money value equal to the money value of
said-advertising space."
The answer further aversthat all the company's
corporate powers as a common carrier are derived from an

CHI., IND. & L. RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 495
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Indiana statute which prohibits the railway company,
from giving free tickets, free passes or free transportation,
but which, in express words, authorizes the company to
issue transportation in payment for printing and advertising.. It denied that the purchase of advertising space by
a common carrier constituted any part of interstate commerce ,or that Congress has any constitutional power to
prohibit it from doing so.
It .was admitted at the hearing "that said defendant
had, subsequent to the filing of said petition, executed contracts similar in ternts to the ones set forth in said petition, expiring December 31, 1908, for the exchange of
interstate transportation for advertising, under the same
conditions as those set forth in the contracts described in
said petition, and that said case should be heard and determined precisely as if it were alleged in the pleading that
said defendant had mhade -said contracts expiring Decem31, 1908."
berThe
Circuit Court heard the case upon the pleadings and
proofs and adjudged that the acts of the railway company, as alleged in the petition, were sustained by the evidence (as they undoubtedly were), and were in violation of
the commerce act of February 4, 1887, of the act further
to regulate commerce approved February 19, 1903, and
of the acts amendatory thereof.
It was further adjudged, in accordance with the petition of the Government, "that the defendant, its officers
and agents, and any and all persons whomsoever, acting
on its behalf, be, and they are hereby, enjoined from
further executing each and every one of' said: contracts
now pending for the exchange of transportation for advertising space; and that they be, and they are hereby,
.enjoined from issuing transportation in exchange for advertising, space pursuant to the terms of contracts providing that said transportation shall be paid for. by thL
furnishing of advertising space in newspapers or periodi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.

Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

cals, that they be, and they are hereby, enjoined from
accepting advertisements in lieu of money in payment for
interstate transportation, pursuant to agreements or contracts providing that said advertising space shall be pard
for by issuing transportation; and that they be, and they
are hereby, enjoined from committing any of the acts
with reference to the exchange of interstate transportation for advertising space as charged in said petition."
1. The decisive question in this case is whether the
contract between the railway company and the Munsey
Company is repugnant to the acts of Congress regulating
commerce. In other words, could the company, in return
for the transportation which it agreed to furnish and did
furnish to the Munsey publisher over its interstate lines,
and to his employds and to the immediate members of his
and their families, accept as compensation for such service
anything else than money, the amount to be determined
by its published schedule of rates and charges? Upon the
authority of Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Mottley,
ante, p. 467,.just decided, and according to the principles
announced in the opinion in that case, the answer to the
above question must be in the negative.' The acceptance
by the railway company of advertising, not of money in
payment of the interstate transportation furnished to the
publisher of the Munsey magazine, his elnployds and the.
*immediate members of his and their families, was for the
reasons giveni in the Mottley case, in violation of the commerce act. The facts in the present case show how easily,
under any other ltie, the act can be evaded andthe object
of Congress entirely defeated. The legislative department intended that all who obtained transportation on
interstate lines should be treated' alike -in the matter of
rates, and that all who availed themselves of the services
of the railway company (with certain specified exceptigns) should be on a plane bf equality Those ends cannot be met otherwise than by requiring transportation to be

CHI., IND. & L. RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 497
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

paid for in money which has a certain value known to all
and not in commodities or services or otherwise than in
money.
2. We need say but little ibout the Indiana statute
upon which the defense is in part based. The transactions, in respect of which the Government seeks relief,
being interstate, in their character, the acts of Congress as
to such transactions are paramount. No state enactment
can /be of any avail when the subject of such transactions
has been covered by an act of Congress acting within the
limits of its constitutional powers. It: has long been settled that when an "act of the legislature of a State prescribes a regulation of the subject repugnant to and inconsistent with the regulation of Congress, the state law
must give way, and this without regard to the source of
power whence the statp legislature derived its enactment." Sinnot v. Davenport, 22 How. 227, 243; M., K. &
T. Railway v. Haber, 169 U. S. 613, 686; Reid v. Colorado,
i87 U. S. 137. This results, Chief Justice Marshall said
in Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, as well from the nature
of the Government as from the words of the Constitution.
Judgment affirmed.

VOL. .cCXx-32

