GERMAN ALLIANCE INS. CO. v. HALE.
219 U. S.

307

Syllabus.

decided, the military board, whose action was reviewed,
a judicial tribunal, and its decision subject to be reviewed
by certiorari. And, replying to the argument against
the existence of the power of the courts to review the determination of a military tribunal and the cases from the
Federal courts, adduced to support the argument, the
court said, "there is a Wide difference between the regular army of the Nation and the militia of a State when
not in the service of the Nation," and that "more rigid
rules and a -higher state of discipline are required in the
one case than in the 8ther."
Judgment affirmed.

GERMAN

ALLIANCE INSURANCE
v. HALE.

COMPANY

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.

No. 56. Argued and submitted November29, 1910.-Decided January 16,
1911.
The business of fire insurance is of an extensive and peculiar character,
concerning a large number of people; and it is within.the police power
of the State to adopt such regulations as will protect the public
against the evils arising from combinations of those engaged in such
business, and to substitute competition for monopoly; and regulations which have a real substantial relation to that end and are not
essentially arbitrary do not deprive the insurance companies of their
property without due process of law.
All corporations, associations and individuals, within its jurisdiction,
are subject to such regulations in respect of their relative rights and
duties as the State may, in the exercise of its police power and in
harmony with its own and the Federal Constitution, prescribe for
the public convenience and the general good; and the State may also
prescribe, within such limits, the particular means of enforcing such
regulations.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

219 U. S.

Although the means devised by the state legislature for the enforcement of its police regulations may not be the best that can be devised, this court cannot declare them illegal if the enactment i3
within the power of the State.
A State is not bound to go to the full extent of its power in legislatirg
against an evil from which it seeks to protect the public.
A statute which applies equally to all of the same class and under like
conditions does nbt deny equal protection of the'law.
A statute that applies to all insurance companies which unite with
others in fixing rates to be charged by each constituent member of
the combination does not deny equal protection of the law to the
corapanies so uniting. The classification is neither unreasonable nor
arbitrary, but has a reasonable and just relation to the evil which the
legislation seeks to prevent..
Where defendant takes no exception to action of the trial court in sustaining demurrer to one of his pleas, but goes to trial on the merits,
introduces evidence on other issues, and does not offer evidence on
those raised by that plea, this court may fairly assume that he waived
or abandoned it on the trial even if he has assigned as error the action of the court in sustaining the demurrer.
Sections 2619, 2620 of the Code of Alabama, 1896, aa amended,
§§ 4954, 4955, Code 1907,. imposing on all insurance companies who
are connected with a tariff association a liability to be recovered by
the insured of twenty-five per cent in excess of the amount of the
policy, are not unconstitutional -under the Fourteenth Amendment
as depriving such companies of their property without due process
of law or denying them the equal protection of the laws.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of certain
provisions of the Code of Alabama, axe stated in the opinion.

Mr. Alex. C. King and Mr. H. Pillan8 for plaintiff in
error:
The statute of Alabama (Code of 1896, § 2619), attacked as unconstitutional, is not a condition to the doing
of business in the State imposed on foreign corporations;
neither is it a penalty put upon one class of litigants;
neither is it a part of the costs of one class of cases. It is
a discrimination imposed upon a part of the class, to-wit,

GERMAN ALLIANCE INS. CO. v. HALE.
219 U. S.

309

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

fire underwriters, and not upon others, who may have the
same contract, the same defenses, who may have charged
the same premium and may be in the same relation to the
insured, Gulf, Colorado & Santa.Fe Ry. v. Ellis, 165 U. S.
150, 153; Cotting v. Kansas City Stock Yards Co., 183 U. S.
79, 100,. 108; Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S.
540.
While classification is allowed, it must not be arbitrary;
it must be reasonable with relation to the subject-matter,
and such reasonableness is a judicial question. The division is not based on any difference of contract with the
plaintiff-claimant. It is not even based on a state of
facts necessarily prevailing when the insurance contract
was made. The contracts of each insurer may be identical
in every respect. Even the membership in a tariff association may have occurred after the policies were all delivered
to Ittheis assured.
a law providing one rule for construction
of a private contract in one case, where the same contrct between other insurance companies and the insured is differently construed.
The excess liability-under the statute is not a penalty,
and adjudged as such for making an illegal combination.
The insurer may be ever so flagrant in making a combination as to rates affecting the very risk incurred, and the
proof may be conclusive as to this. It may defend successfully alone on a breach of covenant not affecting the
happening of the loss, the extent of damage done, or the
good faith of the plaintiff. If successful on this defense, the
verdict is for the defendant, without damages of any kind.
The decisions of the Supreme Court of Alabama on
this statute, Continental Ins. Co. v. Parks, 142 Alabama,
650; Firemen's Fund Ins. Co. v. Hellner, 49 S. Rep. 297,
overlook the true question involved in the claim made
that it is void under the Fourteenth Amendment.
These decisions are in conflict with previous decisions

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

219 U. S.

of the Supreme Court of Alabama, the principles of which
declare this statute invalid both under the constitution
of Alabama and the Fourteenth Amendment. See South
& North R. Co. v. Morris, 65 Alabama, 193; Louisville &
Nashville R. Co. v. Baldwin, 85 Alabama, 627; Randolph v.
Builders' & P. S. Co., 106 Alabama, 501.
This statute also discriminates against the insurance
companies falling within its terms, as against the rest of
the community, in that it penalizes them and vitiates
clauses of their contracts for making any agreement fixing
prices, while no such penalty or consequence is visited on
any other litigant. Wabash &c. R. R. Co. v. Illinois, 118
U. S.557.
The court below erred in sustaining the demurrers to'
the plea setting up a breach of the iron safe clause of said
policy. Scottish Un. & Nat'l Ins. Co. V. Stubbs, 98 Georgia,
754, 761; Georgia Home Ins. Co. v. Allen, 128 Alabama,
451.
The Alabama statute is an unconstitutional interference with the liberty of contract. This intrusion into a
contract of yesterday, which was lawful yesterday which
can be made, merely because of some act of one of the
parties, disconnected with the contract and with the other,
to-day, is unlawful. Such legislation has no reasonable
tendency to aid in the legitimate accomplishment of any
purpose under the police power.
The right to make contracts in relation to his business
is part of the liberty of the individual protected by the
Fourteenth Amendment. McLean v. State of Arkansas,
211 U. S. 539, 547; Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S.578;
Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S.45; L. & N. R. R. Co. v.
Baldwin, 85 Alabama, 619, 629.
This law is invalid in so far as it seeks to alter a contract valid at the time it was entered into, because of the
supposed misbehavior of one of the parties in his subsequent relations to the State; it undertakes to deprive one

GERMAN ALLIANCE INS. COI v. HALE.
219 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

contracting party of his property in behalf of the other
contracting party and thus arbitrarily to enrich the latter
at the expense of the- former.
Mr. Thomas M. Stevens for ctefendant in error:
The Supreme Court of Alabama has upheld the validity of the statute involved in this case, in ContinentalIns.
Co. v. Parkes, 142 Alabama, 650; Firemen's Fund Ins. Co.
v. Hellner, 49 So. Rep. 297; ,XEtnaIns. Co. v. Kennedy, 50
So. Rep. 73.
The statute does not discriminate between different insurance companies-the only distinction is that which
exists between the innocent and the guilty. The statute
does not discriminate between 'those who violate its terms.
The penalties imposed by the statute are not directly or
indirectly aimed at an impairment of the insurer's right
to defend, but they are intended ,as a punishment for :a
violation of the laws of the State. The statute does not
impair the obligation of contracts, as its operation is
limited to those contracts ,made after its adoption. Denny
v. Burnett, 128 U. S. 489; Edwards v. Kearzey, 96 U. S.
595; McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S. 546, 547; Gundling v.
Chicago, 177 U. S. 183..
The purpose of the regulation being laudable and proper,
it is not so utterly unreasonable and extravagant in its
nature as to be condemned upon that ground. The contention that the effect of imposing the&penalty is to take
one person's property and bestow it upon another is manifestly unsound.
The selection of those, who may recover the statutory
penalty is based upon a reasonable Classification well
within the legislative discretion. L. & N. R. R. v. Baldwin, 85 Alabama, 619.
The purpose of the law is, not to reimburse the insured,
but to punish the insurer for. violating the law against
combinations and there can be no reason for distinguish-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

ing between contracts of insurance made before, and those
made after, the entering into the prohibited combination.
The punishment is not so severe and far-reaching as to
be classed as unreasonable and arbitrary. To so hold, the
court must decide that the punishment goes so far beyond
what is necessary as to shock the conscience, and there is
nothing in the character, nature or extent of the punishment imposed by the statute which can authorize this
court to set aside and hold for naught the legislative will
and judgment expressed in and by the enactment of the
said statute.
The well-established rule that contracts of insurance
are to be construed most strictly against the insurer, is
here applicable and relevant.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought in one of the courts of Alabama
by the defendant in error, Hale, on a policy of fire insurance issued by the German Alliance Insurance Company,
a New York corporation.
The policy covered "lumber and square timber while
stacked on the banks of Byrne's Mill Pond near Bay
Minette, Baldwin County, Alabama, said lot of lumber
and timber containing 300,000 feet," etc.
Upon the petition of the defendant, the case was removed into the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Alabama, where a verdict was returned for $5,198.93 in favor of the plaintiff. For that
amount judgment was rendered against the company.
The Circuit Court suggested that the verdict was excessive, and that the motion for new trial would be granted,
unless the plaintiff reduced the verdict to $4,112. The
required reduction was made and the new trial denied.
Northern Pacific R. R. Co. v. Herbert, 116 U. S. 642, 647.
The principal question presented by the assignments of

GERMAN ALLIANCE INS. CO. v. HALE.
219 U. S.

313

Opinion of the Court.

error arises out of certain provisions of the Code of Alabama, as follows:
"SECTION

2619. Every contract or policy of insurance

hereafter made or issued shall be construed to mean that
in the event of loss or damage thereunder, the assured or
beneficiary thereunder may, in addition to the actual loss
or damage suffered, recover twenty-five per cent of the
amount of such actual loss, any provision or stipulation
in such contract or policy to 'the contrary notwithstanding.
Provided, at the time of the making of such contract or
policy of insurance, or subsequently before the time of
trial, the insurer belonged to, or was a member of, or in
any way connected with, any tariff association or such
like thing by whatever name called, or who had made any
agreement or had any understanding with any other person, corporation or association engaged in the business of
insurance as agent or otherwise about any particular rate
of premium which should be charged or fixed for any kind
or class of insurance risk; and, provided further, no stipulation or agreement in such contract or policy of insurance
to arbitrate loss or damage nor to give notice or make
proofs of loss or damage shall in any s'uch case be binding
on the assured or beneficiary, but right of action. accrues
immediately upon loss or damage.
"SECTION 2620. If it is shown to the reasonable satisfaction of the jury by a preponderance of the weight of the
testimony that such insurer at the time of the making of
such agreement or policy of insurance or subsequently before the time of trial belonged to, or was a member of, or in
any way connected with .anytariff association or such like
thing by whatever name called, either in or out of this
State, or had made any agreement or had any understanding either in or out of this State with anyother person, corporation or association engaged in the business of insurance as agent or otherwise about any particular rate of
premium which should be charged or fixed for any risk of

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

insurance on any person or property or on any kind or
class of insurance risk, they must, if they find for the assured or beneficiary, in addition to his actual damages,
assess and add twenty-five per cent of the amount of such
actual loss, and judgment shall be rendered accordingly,
whether claimed in the complaint or not." Alabama Code,
1896, §§ 2619, 2620; lb., 1907, §§ 4954, 4955.
At the time of the cpntract of insurance the defendant
corporation was connected with a tariff association which
prescribed the rates of premium to be charged by its constituent members. The verdict and judgment against the
company gave effect to that clause of the statute providing
that under every contract or policy of insurance, thereafter made or issued by any such association, the assured
or beneficiary may, in addition to the actual loss or damage suffered, recover 25 per cent of the amount of such
actual loss, any provision or stipulation in such contract
or policy to the contrary notwithstanding.
The assignments of error present a question of practice
which is supposed to be raised by those provisions of the
policy which contained a covenant and warranty in these
words:
"1st. The assured will take a complete itemized inventory of stock on hand at least once in each calendar year,
and unless such inventory has been taken within twelve
calendar months .prior to the date of this policy, one shall
be taken in detail within thirty days of issuance of this
policy, or this policy shall be null and void from such date,
and upon demand of the assured the unearned premium
from such date shall be returned. 2d. The assured will
keep a set of books, which shall clearly and plainly present
a complete record of business transacted, including all
purchases, sales and shipments, both for cash and credit,
from date of inventory, as provided for in the first section
of this clause and during the continuance of this policy.
3d. The assured will keep such books and. inventory, and

GERMAN ALLIANCE INS. CO. v. HALE.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

also the last preceding inventory, if such has been taken,
securely locked in a fireproof safe at night. In the event
of failure to produce such set of books and inventories for
the inspection of this company, this policy shall become
null and void, and such failure shall constitute a perpetual
barto any recovery thereon. And defendant avers that
the assured wholly disregarded the terms, stipulations
and conditions of said policy in .the following respects, to
wit: 1st. He did not keep a set of books as therein provided;
2d. He did not keep said books securely locked in a fireproof safe at night, and at other times as therein provided;
3d. He failed to produce said books for the inspection of
the defendant after said alleged loss, wherefore said policy
became and was null and void. And the defendant says
by reason of the failure and refusal of, said plaintiff to comply with the said covenant and warranty in the said particulars the said plaintiff is not entitled to recover in this
action, nor to have and maintain this action against the
defendant."
The principal question arising on this writ of error is
whether the above sections of the Alabama Code are consistent with the Constitution of the United States. The
contention is that the provision allowing the insured or
beneficiary in a named contingency to recover, in addition
to the actual loss or damage suffered by him, twenty-five
per cent of the amount of loss or damage so suffered-any
stipulation in the contract of insurance to the contrary
notwithstanding-deprives the company of its property
without due process of law, and also denies to it the equal
protection of the laws; thus, it is contended, violating the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States.
In our opinion the statute is not liable to objection on
constitutional grounds. The State-as we may infer from
the words of the statute alone-regarded the fixing of insurance rates by self-constituted tariff associations or con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
( 0ninion of the Court.

219 U. S.

binations as an evil against which the public should be
guarded by such legislation as the State was competent to
enact. This question was before the Supreme Court of
Alabama, and the statute was there assailed as violating
both the state and Federal constitutions. That court
held that the object of the legislature of Alabama was to
prevent monopoly and to encourage competition in the
m~ter of insurance rates, and that-the statute was a legitimace exercise to that end of the police power of the State,
not inconsistent with either the state or Federal constitution. Continental Ins. Co. v. Parkes, 142 Alabama, 650,
658, 659. The same view of the statute was taken by the
state court in subsequent cases. , Firemen's Fund Ins. Co.
v. Hellner, 49 So. Rep. 297; .Etna Ins Co. v. Kennedy, 50
So. Rep. 73. We concur entirely in the opinion expressed
by the state court that the statute does not infringe the
Federal Constitution, nor deprive the insurance company
of any right granted or secured by that instrument. The
business of fire insurance is, as every one knows, of an
extensive and peculiar character, and its management conc~rns a very large number of people, particularly those who
own property and desire-to protect themselves by insurance. We can well understand that fire Insurance companies, acting together, may have owners of property
practically at their mercy in the matter of rates, and may
have it in their power to deprive the public generally of
the advantages flowing from competition between rival
organizations engaged in the business of fir6 insurance.
In order to meet the evils of such combinations or associations, the State is competent to adopt appropriate regulations that will tend to substitute competition in the place
of combination or monopoly. Carrollv. Greenwich Ins. Co.,
199 U. S. 401, 411. Regulations, having a real, substantial
relation to that end, and which are not essentially arbitrary, cannot properly be characterized as a deprivation
of property without due process of law. They are enacted

GERMAN ALLIANCE INS. CO. v. HALE.
219 U. S.

317

Opinion of the Court.

under the power with which the States have never parted,
of caring for the common good within the limits of constitutional authority. Insurance companies, indeed, all
corporations, associations and individuals, within the jurisdiction of a State, are subject to such regulations, in
respect of their relative rights and duties, as the State may,
in the exercise bf its police power and in harmony with
its own and the Federal Constitution, prescribe for the
public convenience and the general good. Jacobson v.
Massachusetts,197 U. S. 11, 27, 31; Lake Shore &c. v. Ohio,
173 U. S. 285, 297; House v. Mayes, ante, p. 270.
Much stress is placed by the insurance company on that
clause of the statute allowing the insured to recover, in
addition to the actual loss or damage suffered, twentyfive per cent of the amount of such loss or damage, if the
company, before or at the time of trial belonged to or was
connected with a tariff association that fixed rates. We
do not think that this provision is in excess of the power of
the State. As a means to effect the object of the statutethe discouragement of monopoly or combination and the
encouragement of competition in the matter of insurance
rates-the State adopted the regulations here in question.
It was for the State, keeping within the limits of its constitutional powers, to say what particular means it would
prescribe for the protection of the public in such matters.
The court certainly cannot say that the means here
adopted are not, in any real or substantial sense, germane
to the end sought to be attained by the statute. Those
means may not be the best that could have been devised,
but the court cannot, for any such reason, declare them illegal or beyond the power of the State to establish. So
far as the Federal Constitution is concerned, the State
could forbid, under penalty, combinations to be formed
within its limits, by persons, associations or corporations
engaged in the business of insurance, for the purpose of
fixing rates. But it is not bound to go to that extent in its

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

legislation. It may, in its discretion, go only so far as to
impose upon associations or corporations acting together
in fixing rates, a liability to pay to the insured, as part of
the recovery, a certain per cent beyond the actual loss or
damage suffered, if, before or at the time of suit on the
contract of insurance, it is made to appear that the company or corporation sued is part of or connected with a
tariff rate association. Such a provision manifestly tends
to discourage monopoly or combination and to encourage
competition in a business-in the conduct of which the
general public is largely interested.
Equally without basis on which to rest is the contention
that the statute violates the clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment, forbidding a State to "'deny to any person
within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws."
We will assume, for the purposes of this case, that this
company is within the jurisdiction of the Federal court 'so
as to entitle it to claim the benefit of that provision of
the Fourteenth Amendment. Blake v. McClung, 172 U. S.
239, 260. We are yet ckcarly of the opinion that the
statute does not, within the meaning of the Constitution,
deny the insurance company the equal protection of the
laws. The statute applies only to associations or corporations that unite in fixing tle rates of insurance to be
charged by each constituent member of the combination.
Looking at the evil to be remedied, that was such a classification as the State could legally make. It is neither
unreasonable nor arbitrary within the rule that a classification must rest upon some difference indicating "a
reasonable and just relation to the act in respect bf which
the classification is proposed." The legislature naturally
directed its enactment against insurance companies or
corporations which before or at the time of trial were
found to be members of an insurance tariff association
that fixed rates. No principle of classification required it
to include insurance associations that were free to act, in

GERMAN ALLIANCE INS. CO. v. HALE.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the matter of rates, upon the merits of each application for
insurance, unaffected by any agreement or arrangement
with other companies. All insurance companies, persons,
or corporations engaged in the business of insurance as
agent or otherwise with associations, persons or corporations which acted together in fixing rates are placed by
the statute upon an equality in every respect, and, therefore, it cannot rightfully be contended that the plaintiff 4n
error is denied the equal protection of the laws. Whatever "liberty of contract" they had must have been exercised in subordination to any valid regulations the State
prescribed for the conduct of their business. Statutes
that aplAy equally to all of the same class and under like
conditions cannot he held to deny the equal protection of
the laws; for, as this court has adjudged, "the equal protection of the laws is a pledge of the protection of equal
laws" to all under like circumstances. Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, 367; Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S.
27; Soon Hing v. Crowley, 113 U. S. 703.
One of the assignments of error for this court, the ninth,
is that the Circuit Court erred in sustaining the plaintiff's
demurrer to the plea numbered two, in which reference
was made to the above provisions, alleged to be embodied
in the policy and which make it the duty of the assured at
stated times to take an inventory of stock on hand and
keep a set of books to be securely locked in a fireproof safe
at night. To that plea tho plaintiff demurred upon these
separate grounds: 1. It did not appear that the plaintiff
was bound by the provision of the policy referred to in the
plea. 2. The property insured was of such a character that
the policy set up in the plea was not applicable thereto.
3. It did not appear that the property insured was of such
a character that the provision of the policy, as set up in
the plea, was applicable thereto. 4. It was not made to
appear by the plea that there was any purchase, sales and
shipment or other business transacted from the time the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

219 U. S.

policy was issued until the time of the loss which affected
or related to the property insured. The demurrer was
sustained, but no exception appears to have been taken to
this action of the court. The defendant did not stand
upon his plea, and went to trial upon the merits of the
case, without objection, and introduced evidence upon
other issues in the case, but at the trial no evidence was
offered or introduced on either side relating to the matters
set out in the second plea. Under these circumstances,
we are not required to consider the questions raised by
that plea. On this record we .may fairly assume that the
defendant, at the trial, waived or abandoned the issues
raised by the plea. Garrardv. Lessee of Reynolds, 4 How.
123, 126; Weed v. Crane, 154 U. S. 570. Restricting this
decision to the points herein before discussed the judgment
must be affirmed.

Judgment affirmed.

WILLIAM W. BIERCE, I MITED, v. WATERHOUSE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
HAWAII.

No. 508. Argued December 12, 1910.-Decided January 16, 1911.
This court disapproves of the practice, followed by an intermediate
appellate court in this case, of reversing a judgment on one of
a number of assigned errors without passing on the others; it is
likely to involve duplicate appeals.
Increasing the ad damnum of a suit in replevin to an amount within the
penalty of the bond by amendments to make the declaration conform to the evidence as to value is not, under the laws or practice of
Hawaii, illegal, nor does it have the effect of discharging the sureties.
The surety on a bond given in course of a judicial proceeding is represented in that proceeding by his principal, and becomes responsible,
to the amount of the penalty, for amendments allowed by the court
that do not introduce new causes of action.
A plaintiff suing in replevin is not estopped from showing that he

