OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

219 U. S.

SPOKANE AND BRITISH COLUMBIA RAILWAY
COMPANY v. WASHINGTON AND GREAT
NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.
No. 49. Submitted November 29, 1910.-Decided January 3, 1911.
No one can take advantage of the forfeiture provided for non-performance of a condition subsequent in a land grant in prosenti, except the
Government, Schulenberg v. Harriman,.21 Wall. 44; nor can there
'be any forfeiture on the part of the United States without appropriate judicial proceeding equivalent to office found or legislative
assertion of ownership.
Although the grant of right of way involved in this action made by the
act of June 4, 1898, c. 377, 30 Stat. 430, provided for grading and
completion of a specified number of miles of track, failure to do so
did not operate as a forfeiture without action by the Government or
render the grant null or void leaving the land open for settlement or
location by another railroad.
Whether a granted ri,' . - -ay to a railroad under act of Congress
has been abandoned by ute grantee or whether the grantee is estopped to make claim thereunder, are not Federal questions and the
decision of the state court is not reviewable here.
49 Washington, 280, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the right of a grantee of lands
under the act of June 4, 1898, 30 Stat. 430, are stated
in the opinion.
Mr. W. T. Beck, with whom Mr. W. C. Keegin was on
the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Defendants in error never acquired any vested interest
in the right of way. The location of such right of way
made and approved under the act of June 4, 1898, was
rendered void for failure to commence grading or other

SPOKANE &c. RY. v. WASH. & GT. NOR. RY. 167
219 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

work on such location within six months after the filing
of the maps showing such location, as required by § 3 of
the act. Congress intended that before the grant should
attach, maps showing location must be filed, but such
location was to be of no effect without commencement
of work. The doing of such things by the grantee was
essential to divest the Government of title, and failure
made the grant void ipso facto. Any other construction
is to read a meaning into the statute contrary to its plain
language.
The term forfeited implies the extinguishment of. a
vested grant or interest, or a right thereto.
The fact that words of grant are found in the act of
June 4, 1898, does not make the case other than one of
statutory construction. Although a statute may -contain
the elements of a compact between the Government and
an individual, nevertheless it should be construed according to the rules for construction of statutes and not
according to those for construction of contracts. Black,
Interpretation of Laws, p. 315; Schulenberg v. Harriman,
21 Wall. 44; 5 Thompson on Corp., § 6588.
A strict, construction in 'favor of the Government is
demanded by public policy. Sutherland, Stat. Const.,
§ 378; Black, Interpretation, p. 315; Rice v. Minn. & N.
W. R. R. Co., 1 Black, 358; Railroad Co. v. Litchfield, 23
How. 66. Acts containing such or other language importing a grant in prcesenti, have been construed not to
be grants in prcesenti, and vice versa acts without any terms
of conveyance at all have been construed to be grants
in prcesenti. See New York Indians v. United States, 170
U. S. 1; Heydenfelt v. Daney G. Mining Co., 93 U. S. 634;
United States v. Choctaw, A. & G. R. R. Co., 3 Oklahoma,
404, 490; New York R. R. Co. v. Boston, Hartford & Erie
Ry. Co., 36 Connecticut, 196; 5 Thompson, § 6586. The
decision of the court below is not supported by Railroad
Co. v. Alling, 99 U. S. 463; United States v. D. & R. G.

168

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

219 T.R.

R. R. Co., 150 U. S. 1; Noble v. Union'River Logging R. R.
Co., 147 U. S. 165, 176.
Without conceding the right of way in question was
ever acquired, if acquired, it was abandoned long prior
to the deed from the grantee to defendant in error. The
facts show non-user aid an abandonment. Defendants
in error are estopped from claiming this right of way.
Roanoke Inv. Co. v. Kansas City R. R. Co., 17 S. W. Rep.
1000; Jones v. Van Bochove, 61 N. W. Rep. 342; Blakely
v. Chicago, K. & N. R. R. Co., 64 N. W. Rep. 972. An
abandonment is more readily presumed where the easement is granted for a public benefit, than where held for
private use, and when such right has been. abandoned
the State may grant it to another. Henderson.v. Cent.
Pass. Ry. Co., 21 Fed. Rep. 358.
Whether the grant be one in fee or an easement, merely,
it is subject to the condition that it be appropriated and
used for the purpose designed. Denver & 1R. G. R. R. Co.
v. Alling, 99 U. S. 463; Railroad Co. v. Baldwin, 103 U. S.
426. The defendant in error is bound by the abandonment of its predecessor. Westcott V. New York'& N. E.
R. R. Co., 25 N. E. Rep. 840.
Justice favors the position of plaintiff in error. White's
Bank v. Nichols, 64 N. Y. 74.
Mr. Thomas R. Benton, with whom Mr. Win. R. Begg
was on the brief, for defendant in error:
When the line of the proposed railway was definitely
located, and a map thereof filed with and approved by
the Secretary of the Interior, the title to the lands granted'
vested in the grantee as of the date of the granting act.
Schulenberg v. Harriman,21 Wall. 44; RailroadCo. v. Baldwin, 103 U. S.426; Noble V. Logging R. R. Co., 147 U. S.
165, 176; New York Indians v. United States, 170 U. S.1,
17. See also Leavenworth &c. R. R. Co. v. United States,
92 U. S. 733; Railroad Co. v. Alling, 99 U. S.463, 474;

SPOKANE &c. RY. v. WASH. & GT. NOR. RY. 169
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

St. Paul & Pacific R. R. Co. v.Northern Pacific R. R. Co.,
139 U. S. 1; Railroad Co. v. Jones, 177 U. S.125.
The conditions that when a map showing any portion
of said company's located line'is filed, the company shall
commence grading said located line and cothplete portions within specified periods are conditions subsequent,
of which no one can take advantage but the United States,
and until the United States has asserted its right to enforce a forfeiture for the breach of these conditions, either
by legislation declaring a forfeiture, or by judicial proceedings authorized by law, the title remains unimpaired
in the grantee. Schulenberg v. Harriman, 21 Wall. 44;
Grinnell v. Railroad Co., 103 U. S. 739; Van Wyck v.
Knevals, 106 U. S. 360; St. Louis &c. Ry. Co. v. McGee,
115U. S. 469; Bybee v. Oregon R. R. Co., 139 U.. S. 663;
Utah N. & C. R. R. Co. v. ,Utah & C. Ry. Co., 110 Fed.
Rep. 879.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
In this case the Spokane and British Columbia Railway Company,,plaintiff in error, began an action in the
Superior Court of the State of Washington for Ferry
County to enjoin the Washington and Great Northern
Railway Colnpany, the Washington Improvement and
Development Company and others from interfering with
the use of a certain right of way for railway purposes
through the Colville Indian Reservation in the State of
Washington, which, it was alleged, belonged to the plaintiff. The plaintiff had judgment in its favor in the Superior Court. Upon proceedings in error the judgment
was reversed and a judgment entered in f'avor of the
present defendants in error, defendants below. 49 Wash'Ington, 280. To that judgiAent a writ of error was sued
out from this court.
The case presents a conflict between the right of way
of, the Spokane and British Columbia' Ralway Company

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

and a right of way theretofore granted by the United
States to the Washington Improvement and Development Company, grantor of the Washington and Great
Northern Railway Company. The case is stated in the
Supreme Court of Washington as follows:
"By an act of Congress approved June 4, 1898, there
was. granted to the appellant Washington Improvement
and Development Company, and to its assigns, a right
of way for its railway, telegraph and telephone lines
through the Colville Indian Reservation, beginning on
the Columbia River near the mouth of the Sans Poil
River, running thence northerly through said reservation
toward the international line. There was also granted
grounds adjacent for the purposes of stations, other buildings and side tracks, and switch tracks. The act provided for the filing of maps showing the route when
determined upon, said maps of definite location to be approved by the Secretary of the Interior. These maps
were subsequently filed, and were approved by the Honorable Secretary prior to November 27, 1899. Before
the commencement of this action the Washington Improvement and Development Company transferred all
of its rights, privileges and immunities acquired under
this act of Congress to the appellant Washington and
Great Northern Railway Company. Since the filing and
approval of the maps of definite location as aforesaid this
respondent [plaintiff in error here], acting under authority of the act of Congress of March 3, 1875, and the act
of Congress of March 2, 1899, located a route for its railway over practically the same line indicated by the maps
filed by the Washington Improvement and Development
Company, as aforesaid, and filed its maps with the Secretary of the Interior, who approved the same on October 17, 1905. The act of June 4, 1898, under which
appellants [defendants in error here] claim, contained
the following provision:

SPOKANE &c. RY. v. WASH. & GT. NOR. RY. 171
219 U. S.

"'Provided,

Opinion of the Court.

That when a map showing any portion
of said railway company's located line is filed herein, as
provided for, said company shall commence grading said
located line within six months thereafter or such location
shall be void, and said location shall be approved by the
Secretary of the Interior in sections of twenty-five miles
before the construction of any such section shall be begun.'
"Section 5 of the statute reads as follows:
"That the right herein granted shall be forfeited by
said company unless at least twenty-five miles of said
railroad shall be constructed through the said reservation within two years after the passage of this act.'
"Neither the Washington Improvement and Development Company nor its successor, the Washington and
Great Northern Railway Company, comnenced -grading
within six months after the approval of its maps of definite location, nor did it construct twenty-five miles of
railroad, nor any, within two years after the passage of
the act. For these reasons the respondent claims that
appellant's location of the strip indicated by its map became void and forfeited, and that.respondent had a right
to go upon the same strip of land and survey and locate
its line of railway; that having surveyed and marked out
its proposed line of railway upon substantially the same
strip of ground after the expiration of two years, and its
said maps of location having been approved by the Secretary of the Interior, respondent claims that its. location
thereupon ii legal, and that appellants have no rights
whatever in the premises, and should be enjoined from
in any manner interfering (which appellants were doing)
with the respondent's use and occupancy thereof."
From this statement it is apparent that the case turns
upon the rights of the defendants in error, the Washington and Great Northern Railway Company, in the right of
way, as the successor of the Washington Improvement and
Development Company, in view of the facts just stated.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U/S.

The grant to the Washington Improvement and Development Company, to it and its assigns, by the act of
Congress of June 4, 1898 (c. 377, 30 Stat. 430), was of the
right of way for its railway, telegraph and telephone lines
in and through the Colville Indian Reservation in the
State of Washington, and its language is:
"That there is hereby granted to the Washington Improvement and Development Company, a corporation
organized and existing under the laws of the State of
Washington, and to its assigns, a right of way for its.
railway, telegraph and telephone lines through the Colville Indian Reservation in the State of Washington."
A description of the right of way is inserted, and in
§ 3 of the act it is provided that maps of the route of its
located lines through the reservation shall be filed in the
office of the Secretary of the Interior, and after the filing
of the maps no claim for a subsequent settlement and
improvement upon the right of way shown by said maps
shall be valid as against said company; the act then cites
the proviso already quoted from the opinion of the Supreme Court of Washington, requiring the company to
commence grading the located lines within six months
"or such location shall be void."
Section 4 authorized the company to enter upon the
reservation for the purpose of surveying and locating
the line.
Section 5 provided that the right therein granted should
be forfeited by said company unless at least twenty-five
miles of said railroad shall be constructed through. the
said reservation within two years after the passage of the
act.
As found by the Supreme Court of Washington, tle'
grading was not begun within the six months provided,
nor was twenty-five miles of said railroad constructed
through the reservation within two years after the passage of the act, as provided in § 5.

SPOKANE &c. RY. v. WASH. & GT. NOR. RY. 173
219 .U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

Subsequently the maps of location of the plaintiff in
error were approved by the Secretary of the Interior, and
the contention is on its behalf that the rights of the defendant in error, as successor of the original grantee, had
terminated because of the failure to keep the conditions
of the granting act. On the part of the defendant in error
it is contended that inasmuch as the grant was in prm8enti,
and there has been no subsequent act of Congress or direct proceeding in behalf of the United States to forfeit
the title of the grantee, its rights are unimpaired and superior in the conflicting right of way to those of the plaintiff inerror.
The Supreme Court 6f Washington, reviewing the decisions in this court, was of opinion that the rights granted
in the act of June 4, 1898, had not been forfeited and inured to the benefit of the Washington and Great Northern Railway Company as successor of the Washington
Improvement and Development Company.
This court has had frequent occasion to consider acts
of this character, and a brief review of its decisions will,
we think, establish the rule to be applied. The leading
case is Schulenberg v. Harriman, 21 Wall. 44. In that
case there was an act of Congress making a grant of lands
conditioned that all lands remaining unsold after ten
years should revert to the United States. It was there
held that notwithstanding this condition, no one could
take advantage of its non-performance except the grantor
or his heirs, or the successors of the grantor, if the grant
proceeded from an artificial person, and that unless such
persons asserted the right to forfeiture, the title remained
unimpaired in the grantee; and it was further held that
if. the grant be a public one, the right to forfeiture must
be asserted by judicial proceedings authorized by law,
the equivalent of an inquest of office at common law, or
there must be some legislative assertion of ownership for
the breach of the condition. This doc.trine was approved

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

in Grinnell v. Railroad Co., 103 U. S. 739; Van Wyck v.
t.nevals, 106 U. S. 360, and St. Louis &c. Ry. Co.. v. McGee, 115 U. S. 469.
In New York Indians v. United States, 170 U. S. 1, this
court, after referring to Schulenberg v. Harriman,21 Wall.
44, said:
"It has always been held that these were grants in
prcsenti, although the lands could not be identified until
the map of definite location of the road was filed, when
the title which was previously imperfect acquired precision and became attached to the land. The doctrine
of this case has been affirmed so many times that the question is no longer open to argument here."
In Bybee v. Oregon &c. Railroad Co., 139 U. S. 663, the
grant provided that not only the lands should revert to
the United States for failure to perform the conditions,
but the grant itself should be null and void for noncom-,
pliance with the conditions. It was nevertheless heldthat
the conditions were subsequent, and the title could not be
forfeited except upon-proper proceedings by the Government, judicial in their character, or an act of Congress
competent for that purpose.
Applying the principles of those cases to the grant in
question, we find that in its terms the granting clause is
clear and distinct and conveys an estate in prcesenti.
There is nothing in the conditions inconsistent with the
vesting of the title, or requiring things to be done before
the title can be vested. The company is required to commence grading its located line within six months and the
grant is to be forfeited, unless at least twenty-five miles
shall be constructed within two years after the passage
of the act. These things may be done after the vesting
of the title, and do not necessarily precede the vesting
of the estate.
Reading this grant in the light of the former adjudications of this court, we think it must be held that it was

FORE RIVER SHIPBUILDING CO. v. HAGG.
219 U. S.

175

Syllabus.

the intention of Congress that the grantee should perform
these conditions after acquiring title and taking possession, and therefore that the conditions were subsequent.
This being true, there could be no forfeiture on the part
of the United States without some appropriate judicial
or legislative action, which it is not claimed was taken
in this case. We think the Supreme Court of the State
of. Washington was right in its construction of the grant
under the circumstances shown.
The contention that the grant was abandoned by the
grantee, or that the circumstances show estoppel to make
claim under it, do not present questions reviewable here.
The state court having, in our view, properly decided the
Federal question made, upon which this court alone could
take jurisdiction, its judgment must be
Affirmed.

FORE RIVER SHIPBUILDING COMPANY v. HAGG.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 75.

Submitted December 16, 1910.-Decided January 3, 1911.

This court takes notice of, and inquires as to, its own jurisdiction,
whether the question is raised by counsel or not. Aansficld &c. Ry.
Co. v. Swan, 111 U. S. 379.
Section 5 of the Court of Appeals Act of March 3, 1891, c. 577, 26 Stat.
826, gives a direct review of the judgment of the Circuit Court as to
its jurisdiction, not upon general grounds of law or procedure but of
the jurisdiction of thb court as a Federal court. Louisville Trust Co.
v. Knott, 191 U. S. 275; Bache v. Hunt, 193 U. S. 523.
Where jurisdiction by diversity of citizenship exists, the question of
whether the Circuit Court has jurisdiction to enforce the decree of
another sovereignty is a question of general law and not a question
peculiar to the jurisdiction of the Federal court as such, and a direct
appeal will not lie to this court from the judgment of the Circuit

Court.

