OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

219. U. S.

applied by the Mississippi court in this case is unobjec-"
tionable. It is not an unreasonable inference that a derailment of railway cars is due to some negligence, either
in construction or maintenance of the track or trains, or
some carelessness in operation.
From the foregoing considerations it must be obvious
that the application of the act to injuries resulting from
"the running of locomotives and cars," is not an arbitrary
classification, but one resting upon considerations of public policy arising out of the character of the business.

Judgment affirmed.

HERENCIA v. GUZMAN.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR PORTO RICO.
No. 46.

Submitted November 29, 1910.-Decided December'19; 1910.

It is not the province of this court on writ of error to reverse if dissatisfied with the verdict of the jury; if there was evidence proper
for the consideration of the jury, objection that the verdict was
against the weight of evidence or that excessive damages were allowed cannot be considered.
An amendment to a bill of exceptions, after bond on appeal had been
given and approved, so as to make the record conform to the fact as
to the conditions under which certain testimony introduced by plaintiff in error on the trial was given, held not error, as it was not unjustified or objected to and the exception related simply to the
inclusion of such testimony in the record.
A judgment cannot be set aside on an exception to the refusal of the
trial court to allow an expert to testify where the record does not
show what testimony. the witness was expected to give or that he
was qualified to give any.,

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

HERENCIA v. GUZMAN.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Willis Sweet for plaintiff in error.

Mr. Frederick L. Cornwell for defendant in error.
MR.JusTIcE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought in the District Court of the
United States for Porto Rico to recover damages for personal injuries resulting from the fall of a portion of the
building owned by the plaintiff in error which it was alleged he had negligently allowed to remain in a dangerous
condition. It was tried by a jury who gave a verdict
against plaintiff in error for the sum of $9,000. Judgment
*was entered accordingly and the case comes here on writ
of error.
The argument on behalf of the plaintiff in error proceeds
upon the assumption that this .court may review the evidence as to negligence and as to the damages recoverable,
and may reverse the judgment if the court is dissatisfied
with the findings of the jury. This, however, is not the
province of the court upon writ of error. As there was
evidence proper for the consideration of the jury the objection that-the verdict was against the weight of evidence or that the damages allowed were excessive cannot
be considered. Express Company v. Ware, 20 Wall. 543;
New York, Lake Erie & Western Railroad Company v.
Winter's Administrator, 143 U. S.60, 75; Lincoln v. Power,
151 U. S. 436-438; Humes v. United States, 170 U. S. 210.
Nor was any exception taken by the plaintiff in error
to the instructions which the trial court gave to the jury.
The only questions which are properly before us for review are as to certain rulings upon the admissibility of
testimony.
Error is assigned in admitting the testimony of a physician, Dr. Joaquin Martinez Guasp, "as correct," and it is
further urged that the court "erred in changing the record

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

relative thereto after the bond on appeal had been given
and approved." It appears that the witness was appointed by the court to examine the plaintiff below in order to ascertain his condition at the time of the trial, and
that this action was taken with the consent of the counsel for the' defendant (the plaintiff in error). The examination was made and the witness subsequently testified
without objection. In fact, the counsel for the plaintiff
in error conducted the direct examination, and there was
no cross-examination. No question, therefore, is presented with respect to the admissibility of this testimony.
The bill of exceptions was amended so as to show that the
court stated, when the testimony was introduced, not
only that the physician's examination had been made by.
consent, but that counsel had "agreed that his evidence
should be considered as correct." This amendment, as
the District Judge states, was to conform the record to the
fact. Assuming, as we must, that the statement was made
by the court, it does not appear that it was unjustified
or that ifwas objected to. The exception of the plaintiff
in error is simply to its inclusion in the record.
It is further insisted that the court erred in refusing to
allow one Dr. Gonzalez to testify. As to this the record
merely sets forth that counsel "offered to present the
testimony of one Dr. Gonzalez, as an expert, which testimony is not allowed by the court and to which ruling of
the court counsel for defendant thereupon noted aii exception." Manifestly the judgment cannot ,be set aside
because of this ruling, for it does not appear what testimony the witness was expected to give, or that he was
qualified, to give any.
We have examined the other rulings of which plaintiff
in error complains, with respect to the striking out of certain testimony, and we find no error.
Judgment affirmed.

