. 180

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for the United States.

219 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. GRIZZARD.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 66. Argued Dec.ember 6, 1910.-Decided January 3, 1911.
The compensation to be awarded under the Fifth Amendment for an
actual physical taking of a part of a distinct tract of land includes
not only the market value of the part appropriated, but the damage
to the remainder resulting from-such taking, -mbracing injury due
to the use to which the part appropriated is to be devoted.
In this case hel/ that such damage to the unappropriated portion of the
tract included that caused by cutting off access therefrom to the
public road by flooding the land actually taken.
In determining the total amount of damages for land appropriated and
for damages to remainder, the trial court may divide the total
award and specify the amounts for each element of damage, and it is
not error if the total award represents the difference between the
value of the entire tract before the taking and that of the remainder
after the taking. A less sum would not be the just compensation
which the Fifth Amendment prescribes.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General John Q. Thompson, with
whom Mr. Assistant Attorney Cox was on the brief; for'
the United States:

The closing of public highways, such as streets, roadways and alleys, when done under and pursuant to au-

thority conferred by a valid act, and where there has been
no want of reasonable care or skill in the execution of
the power, does not constitute a taking of private property within the meaning of the Constitution. This is
especially true where ingress and egress to and from land
has been closed in but one direction. At most, the damages arising therefrom have been held to be consequen-

UNITED STATES v. GRIZZARD.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tial and not actionable. United States v. Welch, 217 U. S.
333, does not apply. See Lewis on Eminent Domain
(3d ed.), ยง 202;. Keasy v. Louisville, 4 Dana, 154; Louisville & Frankfort R. R. Co. v. Brown, 17 B. Mon. (Ky.)
763; Wolfe v. C. L. R. R. Co., 15 B. Mon. (Ky.) 404;
Cooley, Const. Lim. (6th ed.), pp. 473, 666; Dillon, Mun.
Corps., ยง 987; Sedgwick, Stat. Const. (2d ed.), pp. 456
et seq..
Defendants in error must show something more than
damage to bring suit within the jurisdiction of the court
under the act of March 3, 1887. They cannot be content
with alleging and proving mere damages arising out of
the commission of a tort, but must show that there has
been such a taking of private property for public use as is
inhibited by the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution.
Neither can they, by any evasion in pleading, create an
action ex contractu out of one purely sounding in tort.
149 U. S.593; 188 U. S.400.
It has not been alleged, nor can it be presumed as a
matter of law, that defendants possessed any individual
property right in a public road of Madison County. Whatever rights that county and the State of Kentucky may
have in this thoroughfare need not here be discussed, because they are not parties to this proceeding.
There was no appearance or brief filed for defendant
inerror.
MR. JUsTIcE LURTON delivered the opinion of the court.

Action by the owners of a farm for a taking of a part
thereof by the United States for public purposes. Judgment for the plaintiff below.
The farm of the defendants in error lies upon Tates
Creek, a tributary of the Kentucky River. For the purpose of improving the navigation of that stream the Gov-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

ernment has erected a series of locks and dams. As a
consequence the waters of Tates Creek are backed up to
such an extent as to flood or submerge a strip of the Grizzard farm, permanently destroying its use for agricultural
purposes. The court below, a jury being waived, found
that seven and a half acres of land had been actually
taken. He then added:
"3. That in addition there is taken an easement of access from plaintiffs' land by way of the county road to the
Tates Creek pike.
"4- That the whole land was worth $3,000 before said
taking, and what was left after the taking was worth
$1,500.
"5. I divide the damage by reason of the taking between the land taken and the easement of access taken
equally, i. e., I allow $750 for the Iand taken, and a like
sum of $750 for the easement of access taken.
"I therefore conclude as a matter of law thati plaintiffs
are entitled to a judgment for $1,500."
The errors assigned relate only to so much of the judgment as allows damages for the "easement of access,' referred to in the findings above set out. That there was a
taking by flooding permanently the seven and a half
acres, valued at $750 by the court .below, is not contested.
Pumpelly v. Green Bay Co., 13 Wall. 166; United States v.
Lynah, 188 U. S. 445; United States v. Welch, 217 U. S.
333; High' Bridge Lumber Co. v. United States,. 69 Fed.
Rep. 323.
The content..c..i is that the "easement of access" destroyed, and therefore, taken, was not a private right of
way constituting property such as that for which compensation was allowed in United States v. Welch, but was
*a public county road; and reference has been made to the
well-known class of cases touching an injury to land not
taken by the construction of a railroad along and upon
an abutting public road, or a change of grade to the dam-

UNITED STATES v. GRIZZARD.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

age of adjacent property, and like indirect injuries to the
use of property adjacent but of which no part was taken
from the owner. TransportationCo. v. Chicago, 99 U. S.
635; Sharp v. United States, 191 U. S. 341.
But here there has been an actual taking by permanently flooding of a part of the farm of the defendants
in error. An incident of that flooding is that a public
road running across the flooded land is also flooded. But
if this were not so, and the roadway had simply been cut
off by the interposition of the flooded portion of the farm,
the damage would be the same. Since, therefore, there
has been a taking of a part of the owners' single tract and
damage has resulted to the owners' remaining interest
by reason of the relation between the taken part and that
untaken, or by reason of the use of the taken land, the
rule applied in the cases cited does not control this case.
That the petition laid stress upon the flooding of the
highway which crossed the flooded land, and sought to
recover for a deterioration of an easement in the public
road, is not fatal. The damage to the land not appropriated is the obvious consequence of the taking of a part
of the whole by flooding-a manner of appropriating
which has made the village market, church and school so
inconvenient of access as to add some three miles of travel
by an unimproved and roundabout country road. Whenever there has been an actual plnysical taking of a part
of a distinct tract of land, the compensation to be awarded
includes not only the market value of that part of the
tract appropriated, but the damage to the remainder resulting from that taking, embracing, of course, injury
due to the use to which the part appropriated is to be
devoted. Thus in Sharp v. United States, 191 U. S. 341,
353, damage resulting to adjacent but distinct parcels
was denied because there had been no actual appropriation of any part of such separate parcel, but the principle was conceded as to injury, from the character of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

use of that taken, to that untaken of the same tract.
Upon this distinction the court said:
"Upon the facts which we have detailed we think the
plaintiff in error was not entitled to recover damages to
the land not taken because of the probable use to which
the Government would put the land it proposed to take.
If the remaining land had been part of the same tract'
which the Government seeks to condemn, then the damage to the remaining portion of the tract taken, arising
from the probable use thereof by the Government, would
be a proper subject of award in these condemnation proceedings. But the Government takes the whole of one
tract."
To the same effect see Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, pp. 565-566.
There is nothing in United States v. Welch, 217 U. S. 333,
cited above, which conflicts with the conclusion we have
reached, but, upon the contrary, the trend of the opinion
is toward the decision we announce.
The constitutional limitation upon the power of eminent domain possessed by the United States is that "private property shall not be taken for public use without
The "just compensation" thus
just* compensation."
guaranteed obviously requires that the recompense to
the owner for the loss caused to him by the taking of a
part of a parcel, or single tract of land shall be measured
by the loss resulting to him from te appropriation. If,
as the court below found, the flooding and'taking of a
part of the plaintiffs' farm has depreciated the usefulness
and value of the remainder the owner is not justly compensated by paying for bnly that actually appropriated,
an leaving him uncompensated for the depreciation over
benefits to that which remains. In recognition of this
principle of justice it is required that regard be had to the
effect of the appropriation of a part of a single parcel upon
the remaining interest of the owner, by taking into ac-

UNITED STATES v. GRIZZARD.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

count both the benefits which accrue -and the depreciation which results to the remainder in its use and value.
Thus in Bauman v. Ross, 167 U. S. 548, 574, it is said:
"Consequently, when part only of'a parcel of land is
taken for a highway, the value of that part is not the sole
measure of compensation or damages to be paid to the
owner; but the incidental injury or benefit to the part not
taken is also to be considered. When the part not taken
is left in such shape or condition as to be in itself of less
value than before, the owner is entitled to additional
damages on that account. When, on the other hand, the
part which he retains is specially and directly increased
in value by the public improvement, the damages to the
whole parcel by the appropriation of part of it are lessened."
In Sharp v., United States, 191 U. S. 341, 354, and High
Bridge Lumber Co. v. United States, 69 Fed. Rep. 320,
323, as well as in United States v. Welch, 217 U. S. 333,
the principle is recognized as settled law.
Both the petition and the finding show that access to
the public road has been cut off by the intervention of
flooded land actually taken.
That the trial judge found the damages for the land
and for the easement of access separately is not controlling. The determining factor was that the yalue of that
part of the Grizzard farm not taken was fifteen hundred
dollars, when the value of the entire place before the taking.was three thousand dollars. A judgment for a less
sum will'not be that "just compensation" to which the
defendants are entitled. -The case is not different in legal consequence from what it would have been if a railway had been constructed across one's lawn, cutting the
owner off from his road and outbuildings, etc. To say
that such an owner would be compensated by paying
him only for the narrow strip actually appropriated, and
leaving out of consideration the depreciation to the re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

219 U. S.

maining land by the manner in which the part was taken,
and the use to which it was put, would be a travesty upon
justice.
Judgment affirmed.

ATLANTIC COAST LINE RAILROAD COMPANY v.
RIVERSIDE MILLS.
ERROR TO. THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

No. 215.

Argued October 19, 20, 1910.-Decided January 3, 1911.

A provision in a bill of lading issued by the initial carrier, that it should
not be liable for loss or damage not occurring on its portion of the
route, is not a contract of exemption from its own liability as a
carrier, but a provision of non-assumption of the liabilities of others
and at common law relieves it of such liabilities.
The general rule adopted by this court is that, in the absence of legislation, a carrier, unless there be a special contract, is only bound to
carry over its own line and then deliver to a connecting carrier; it
may, however, contract to carry beyond its line, and if it does so its
connnon-law carrier liability extends over the entire route.
It was not only the legal elements of the situation, but also the fact
that the business prosperity of. the country largely depends on
through rates and routes of transportation, that induced Congress
to enact such regulations in regard -to the duties and liabilities of
interstate carriers as would relieve shippers whose goods were
damaged from the burden of proving where the loss occurred.
There is no absolute freedom of contract. The Government may deny
liberty of contract by regulating or forbidding every contract reasonably calculated to injuriously affect public interests.
The United States is a Government of limited and delegated powers
but in respect to the powers delegated, including that to regulate
commerce between the States, 'the power is absolute except as
limited by other provisions of the Constitution.
Congress has power to prohibit a carrier engaged in interstate commerce from limiting by contract its liability beyond its own line,

