OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

219 U. S.

KENTUCKY UNION COMPANY v. COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY.
EASTERN KENTUCKY COAL-LANDS CORPORATION v. SAME.
SAME v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.

Nos. 22, 47, 48.

Argued October 28, 31, 1910.-Decided January 3, 1911.

A State may choose its own methods of taxation' and form and method
of enforcing payment so far as Federal power is concerned, subject
only to the restrictions of the Federal Constitution.
Where the highest court of the State has held that provisions that
might render an act unconstitutional are inoperative, and the elimination of those provisions do not affect the remainder of the act,
this court is bound by such construction and will construe the act as
though stripped of such provisions.
An ex post facto law and a retroactive law are different things.
Laws of a retroactive nature imposing taxes or providing remedies for
their assessment and collection and not impairing vested rights are
not forbidden by the Federal Constitution. League v. Texas, 184
U. S. 156.
Ex post facto laws prohibited by the Federal Constitution are those relating to criminal punishment and not retrospective laws of a different nature. Calder v. Bull, 3 Dal. 386; Orr v. Gilman, 183 U. S. 278.
As the Kentucky statute involved in this case, as construed by the
highest court of that State, does not impose penalties or punishments of a criminal nature, it is not an ex post facto law within the
meaning of the Federal Constitution.
Summary procedure in the assessment and collection of taxes, if not
arbitrary or unequal, and which allows opportunity to be heard does
not deny the property owner due process of law simply because it is
summary.
A state statute requiring owners to register lands and pay taxes thereon
but which only forfeits them for non-compliance therewith after
judicial proceeding and opportunity to be heard, does not deny ihe
property owner due process of law.

KENTUCKY UNION CO. v. KENTUCKY.
219 U. S.

Syllabus.

A time not unreasonably short for beginning actions, fixed, in view
of particular conditions, by the legislature, does not deny due process
of law, Terry v. Anderson, 95 U. S. 628; and a state statute of limitations as to actions between individuals cannot affect the right of the
State to determine by statute a reasonable period within which
property owners must register their land, provisions being made for
notice and opportunity to be heard.
Where the state court has held that although a sale may be ordered of
an entire tract there is opportunity, if less than the whole is to be
sold, to be heard, and have an ascertainment of the parts to be sold,
the property- owner is not deprived of his property without due
process of law.
An offer to compromise not in accord with the terms of the statute
under which lands have been declared forfeited does not amount to
an offer to pay the taxes properly assessed thereunder.
Whether lands are properly described in a petition for sale thereof
under a statute presents no Federal question unless the. ruling sustaining it is so arbitrary and baseless as to deny due process of law.
While the Virgiiia-Kentucky. compact of 1789 protects the holders of
grants under Virginia from acts by Kentucky, cutting down substantial rights, Green v. Biddle, 8 Wheat. 1, it does not render them
immune from constitutional enactments of Kentucky in regard to
the taxation or registration of their property. Hawkins v. Barney,
5 Pet. 457.
A State may classify subjects so long as all persons similarly situated
are treated alike. Michigan Central R. R. Co. v. Powers, 201 U. S.
245.
A state taxing statute applicable to certain counties is not unconstitutional under the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment because its operation is confined to those counties. Florida
R. R. Co. v. Reynolds, 183 U. S. 471.
The doctrine of innocent purchasers does not apply against the power
of the State to assess and collect back taxes and provide for registration of titles in favor of one purchasing after delinquencies; such a
purchaser is not deprived of his property without due process of law,
because the State exercises its rights in a constitutional manner.
Citizens' National Bank v. Kentucky, 217 U. S. 443.
Where one seeks to recover under a grant or deed which does, not
convey all the land within the boundary described, he must show
that the land sought to be recovered is within the boundary and
not within the exclusions.
The provisions of the Revenue and Taxation Act of Kentucky of

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

March 5, 1906, involved in this action, are not unconstitutional as
depriving' landowners affected thereby of their property without due
process of law, or denying them equal protection of the law, nor do
such provisions violate the provisions of the Virginia-Kentucky compact of 1789.
127 Kentucky, 667; 128 Kentucky, 610; 111 S. W. Rep. 362, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of certain
provisions as to taxation and registration of land of tile
Ievenue and Taxation Act of Kentucky of March, 1906,
are stated in the opini6n.
Mr. Louis B. Wehle, with whom Mr. William B. Dixon
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error in No. 22.
Mr. John G. Johnson and Mr. William Jackson Hendrick,
with whom Mr. Samuel Howland Hoppin, Mr. Eugene M.
Berard, Mr. James M. Hazelrigg and Mr. Hannis Taylor
were on the brief, for plaintiffs in error in Nos. 47 and 48.
Mr. J. W. M. Stewart, Mr. Z. T. Vinson and Mr. David
W. Baird, with whom Mr. James Breathitt, Attorney General of the State of Kentucky, Mr. John F. Hager, Mr.
John H. Holt, Mr. J. H. Jeffries and Mr. Aaron Kohn
were on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
These are writs of error to the Court of Appeals of the'
State of Kentucky, and involve the constitutionality of an
act of the legislature of that State, passed March 15, 1906,
entitled "An Act Relating to Revenue and Taxation."
Acts of 1906, pp. 88-248. Article III is brought in question in these cases. It is set forth in full in the opinion of
the Court of Appeals of Kentucky in case No. 47. 127
Kentucky, 667. Its salient features are:
Section 1 of the article makes it the duty of every owner
or claimant of land to pay the taxes which have been assessed, and which should have been assessed, against him,
and those Under whom he claims, as the owner or claimant

KENTUCKY UNION CO. v. KENTUCKY.
219 U. S.

143

Opinion of the Court.

thereof, as of the fifteenth day of September, 1901, 1902,
1903, the first day of September, 1904, and the first day
of September, 1905, and provides that if the owner or
claimant, or those under whom he claims, have failed to
list the land, or any part thereof; for taxation, as of said
dates, or any of them, it shall be his duty to have the same
assessed and listed for taxation as is provided in the act,
as of each of said dates for which the assessment has
been omitted, and to pay the taxes, interest and penalties
thereon. It is provided that the fact that the land has
been listed for taxation, or the taxes paid thereon by
another claimant, shall not relieve against the duty imposed by the act; and if any such owner or claimant, or
those-under whom he claims, has failed to list the land for
assessment and taxation, as of any three of said dates, or
has failed to pay the taxes charged, or which should have
been charged against him, or those under whom-he claims,
as the owner or claimant thereof upon said dates, for any
three of the years for which said assessments were or
should have been made, said owner and claimant and
those under whom he claims are declared delinquent; and
such failures,. or either of them, shall be cause for forfeiture and transfer to the Commonwealth of his said
claim and title thereto, in a proceeding to be instituted for
that purpose, as required in the act. But it is provided
that the cause for forfeiture shall be extinguished if the
owner or claimant, his heirs, representatives or assigns,
.-shall, within the time and in the manner provided in the
article, cause the land to be assessed for taxation, and, on
or before March 1, 1907,-pay the taxes charged, and which
should have been charged against him, or against those
under whom he claims, as the owner or claimant thereof,
for each and all of said five years for which he or those
under whom he claims are delinquent, together with the.
interest and penalties provided by law in the case of the
redemption of land sold for the non-payment of taxes.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

Section 2 provides for the ascertainment of the amount
of taxes unpaid and the assessment required by the preceding section by a proceeding in the county court where
the land lies, upon the application of the owner or claim.ant, by a petition filed in the court on or before January 1,
1907, in which the land sought to be charged shall be
described, so as to be identified, and the years for which
it was.listed and the years for which the taxes were not
paid shall be stated; in which petition shall also be stated
the grant under which petitioner claims, if he derives title
from a grant, and the instrument through or the manner
in
which the title devolved upon him. A hearing is pro.vided
upon a day to be fixed by the applicant,
not less
than ten nor more than twenty days after the filing of the
petition, after notice to the county attorney, 'who is required to attend and represent the State and county.
The county court is required to decide upon the application in a summary-manner, upon such evidence as may be
offered, having regard to the value of adjacent property;
to ascertain the amount of unpaid taxes which the applicant and those under whom he claims should have paid
for any: and all of said years, whether assessments were
originally made as of said dates or not. The court is required to find the proportion of the taxes due the county
and' State, at the rates fixed by law for such years; and to
make a record of its findings and certify the same to the
auditor of the State and county clerk. Should the court
find that the land has been assessed against- such owner or
claimant, or those under whom he claims, as of any of said
dates it shall accept such assessment as a basis upon which
to ascertain the amount of unpaid taxes for the year such
assessment shall have been made.
Provision is made for an appeal to the Circuit. Court of
the county; also for the payment of the taxes as ascertained, and for compensation to the officers whose services
are required.

-KENTUCKY UNION CO. v. KENTUCKY.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Section 3 provides the method of procedure against the
owner or' claimant by the Commonwealth's attorney, in
case such owner or claimant fails to have the land assessed
or fails. to pay the taxes charged or which should have been
charged against him, or those under whom he claims, and
it is made the duty of the Commonwealth's attorney to
institute in the Circuit Court of the county in which the
land, or any part thereof lies, a proceeding in equity in
the name of the Commonwealth of Kentucky as plaintiff
against the said tract of land and the owners or claimants
of said land as defendants, naming them if their names
are known to him, and if their names are unknown to him,
designating them as the unknown owners and claimants
thereof; which proceeding is for the purpose of declaring
the title or claim of said defendants forfeited to the Commonwealth, and for selling the same. It is provided that
this suit shall be proceeded with to final judgment in all
respects as other equity causes so far as applicable.
Provision is made for posting the notice and a opy of
the petition at the door of the courthouse.
The petition is required to allege the facts constituting
the cause of forfeiture under the provisions of the article,
and there shall be filed with the petition a copy of tAe
grant or instrument upon which the title or claim sought
.to be forfeited is based; and no other title, claim or posses-,
sion, or continuity thereof, whether owned or claimed by'
the defendant or by others, is to be forfeited or in any
*manner affected by the proceeding. If judgment is in
favor of forfeiture, it is provided that the judgment shall
-operate as a transfer to and vesting in the Commonwealth
of the title and claim of each and all the defendants, and
those under whom they claim, without execution of deed
or other instrument. If the court finds the title is -not
subject to forfeiture under the provisions of the article, ' it
shall so adjudge and dismiss the petition of the plaintiff.
It is provided that judgments under the article shall be
VOL. CCXIX-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

conclusive as against all defendants, including infants,
lunatics and married women, and shall not be subject to
certain provisions of the code of practice.
An appeal is provided to the Court of, Appeals within
thirty days after judgment.
In § 4 provision is made for the purchase back of the
forfeited title, and upon the proper pleadings and hearings the court is authorized to ascertain and adjudge the
amount of. unpaid taxes charged, and that ought to have
been charged, against the defendant and those under
whom he claims, as the owner or claimant of said land, for
the fifty years immediately preceding the filing of such
counterclaim, and if the court finds and adjudges that said
defendant is the owner of the title so forfeited to and
vested in the Commonwealth it shall enter judgment
against such defendant for a sum equal to the amount of
the unpaid taxes charged, and that ought to have been
charged, against said defendant, and those under whom
he claims as the owner or claimant of the land, for said
fifty years, together with interest at the rate of 15 per
centum ppr annum from the time the said unpaid taxes
for said several years were due, and the costs of the proceedings, including a reasonable fee to the Commonwealth's attorney. No person is to be entitled to purchase
back from the Commonwealth the title so forfeited except
such defendant as may, but for such forfeiture, establish
in such proceeding a title thereto in himself upon which he,
could maintain an action of ejectment. Upon payment of
the amount of the judgment the court is required to enter
a judgment retransferring to such defendant the title and
claim so forfeited to and vested in the Commonwealth.
Provision is made for the sale of the said title and claim
in the event that the judgment is not paid.
The fifth section provides that any owner or claimant
who institutes a proceeding allowed by §2 of the article,
who does not, within the time there limited, pay the

KENTUCKY UNION CO. v. KENTUCKY.
219 U. S.

147

Opinion of the Court.

amount ascertained as charged or chargeable against him
and'those under whom he claims, as the owner or claimant
of the land, shall not be allowed to purchase back, under
the proceedings authorized by § 4 of the article.
Section 6 of the article provides that all title and claim
proceeded against under the article and forfeited to and
vested in the Commonwealth and not purchased back
by the owner or claimant thereof, as authorized in § 4,
whether such forfeiture be for past delinquencies or for
future delinquencies as authorized under § 10, is transferred to and vested in any person for so much thereof as
such person, or those under whom he claims, has had the
actual adverse possession for five years next preceding the
judgment of forfeiture, under claim or color of title, derived from any source whatsoever, and .who, or those under
whom he claims, shall have paid taxes thereon for the five
years in which such possession may have been or may be
held; and in those in privity with such person, his heirs,
representatives or assigns, as to the mineral or other interests or rights in or appurtenant to such land.
Section 7 provides that all title and claim to land transferred to and vested in the Commonwealth, under the provisions of this article, and not purchased back by the owner
or claimant, as provided by § 4, and not vested in the occupant, as provided in § 6, shall be sold to the highest and
best bidder for cash in hand, which sale shall be made
pursuant to a judgment of the Circuit Court in said action,
and shall be at public auction at the door front of the
courthouse upon the first day of some regular term of the
Circuit or County Court, after notice of sale shall have
been advertised in the manner required by law in the case
of the sales of land under execution. The commissioner
shall report the sale to the court for its confirmation, and,
when confirmed, the court shall order the commissioner to
make a deed to the purchaser which deed shall operate to
transfer to the purchaser such title and claim to the land

148

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

so forfeited to and vested in the Commonwealth as re"mains in it after the operation of §6 of the article.
The money realized from the sale is to be distributed for
the payment of costs, including the commissioner's and
attorney's fee; second, to the county and State the proportion to which each may be entitled, together with interest and penalty as in this article provided; third, the
remainder to be paid over to the former owner or claimant
or his personal representative or assigns.
Section 8 provides that no action to enforce a forfeiture
as authorized and provided in the article shall be instituted after the expiration of five years from the accrual of
the right thereto.
Section 9 provides that no owner or claimant of any
land in the Commonwealth shall be allowed to prevent the
operation of the article by the payment, after January 1,
1906, of any amount less than the whole of the unpaid
taxes, interest and penalties provided by law, that were
charged and that should have been charged against said
owner or claimant of said land and those under whom he
claims, as of each and all of said five dates first mentioned in § 1 of the article; and where such payment is
made after the passage of the act, it is provided that the
amount to be paid shall be ascertained and. payment made
as in the article provided.
Section 10 provides that when,, for any. five successive
years after the first day of August, 1906, any owner or
claimant of or to any land in the Commonwealth shall fail
to list the same for taxation and cause himself to be
charged with the taxes properly chargeable thereon, or fail
to pay the same as provided by law, then such failure shall
be cause for the forfeiture of his title and claim thereto
and the transfer of the same to the Commonwealth of
Kentucky; and it is made the duty of the Commonwealth's
attorney to institute an action in the Circuit Court of the
county wherein the land or any part thereof lies, for the

KENTUCKY UNION CO. v. KENTUCKY.'
219 U. S.

149

Opinion of the Court.

purpose of declaring the forfeiture, and for the sale of
such parts thereof as, under the provisions of the article,
are liable to sale, such actions and proceedings to conform
to the provisions of article III as far as the same may be
applicable.
Case No. 22 originated in a petition filed by the Commonwealth of Kentucky, through the Commonwealth's
attorney, against the Kentucky.Union Company, for the
forfeiture, for failure to list and pay taxes upon some
40,000 acres of land in Leslie County, Kentucky, granted
by letters patent of the Commonwealth of Kentucky,
June 12, 1872, the proceedings resulting in a judgment of
forfeiture, which was affirmed in the Court of Appeals of
Kentucky, 128 Kentucky, 610.
Case No. 47 was a petition brought by the Eastern Kentucky Coal Lands Corporation under article III, for the
assessment and taxation of the tracts of land in controversy, consisting of large bodies of land which the Eastern
Kentucky Coal Lands Corporation claimed to be the
owners of under patents issued under Virginia warrants,
principally antedating the year 1789; and while the petition was dismissed upon the ground that the same did not
conform to the requirements of the law, the Court of Appeals of Kentucky found that the constitutionality of the
act was necessarily involved, and in an elaborate opinion
by the Chief .Justice sustained the validity of the law.
127 Kentucky, 667.
Case No. 48 was a proceeding by the Commonwealth's
attorney in behalf of the State, against the Eastern Kentucky Coal Lands Corporation and others, for the forfeiture of the lands described, for the failure to list the
lands and pay taxes as required by article III of the act of
March 15, 1906, which resulted in the affirmance of the
judgment rendered in the lower court forfeiting the title
of the Eastern Kentucky Coal Lands Corporation to lands
held in Pike County, Kentucky, under the old Virginia

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

titles and aggregating over 300,000 acres; and while the
case is not officially reported, the opinion of the Kentucky
Court of Appeals is found in 111 S. W. Rep. 362.
The conditions which led to the passage of article Ill of
the act of March, 1906, are elaborately set forth in the
opinion of the Chief Justice in 127 Kentucky, supra.
They are also more briefly stated in a report of the commission appointed by the legislature of Kentucky to investigate and revise the taxing laws of the State, upon
whose recommendation the act in question was passed.
It would too greatly lengthen this opinion to quote the
history of the legislation so fully set forth in the opinion of
the Court of Appeals. It appears that thq tracts in question were formerly a part of the State of Virginia, and
prior to 1792, when Kentucky was admitted into the
Union, the State of Virginia had granted large tracts of
land in that part of the territory which is now eastern
Kentucky. These grants, often conflicting and overlapping, were made for small sums and for large tracts, -the
grants ranging from 5,000 acres to 500,000 acres. Similar
grants were made in what is now the southwestern portion
of the State of West Virginia. The regions covered were
at the time unsettled and the lands of little present value.
They were not tako possession of by the original. patentees or those claiming under them, nor were the taxes
paid thereon, nor up to the passage of the act of 1906 had
taxes in any considerable amount been paid upon such
lands.
A number of acts were passed by the legislature of Kentucky seeking to reach these lands for taxation. Some of
them were held unconstitutional, and up to the passage
of this act no effectual means had been found of subjecting
'these lands to the payment of public taxes. Some of the
same lands were afterwards granted by the State of Kentucky, and very considerable portions of them have been
occupied under grants from that State, and have been con-

KENTUCKY UNION CO. v. KENTUCKY.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tinuously occupied and cultivated by those claiming under
such grants.
With these lands thus covered by conflicting grants
from the State of Virginia and the later grants under the
authority of the State of Kentucky, and in view of the failure of former legislation to require the same to be taxed,
and the fact that the old grants were outstanding and
affording no revenue to the State, and encumbering the
titles of the occupants of the land and those under whom
they claimed, it was sohght by the act of 1906 to subject
these lands to taxation and to forfeit these old titles which
had not been effectually subj'ected to the taxing laws of
the State, and to make the forfeited titles inure to the
benefit of the occupying claimants, who had paid the taxes
thereon in the manner provided by the law. Similar legislation, as we shall have occasiofi to see, was adopted in the
State of West Virginia.
In elaborate arguments at the bar and in briefs covering
many pages a most severe arraignment is made of the
drastic character of this legislation and its alleged unfairness to the claimants of old titles under grants from the
State of Virginia.
This court is concerned only with the constitutionality.
of the law in view of applicable provisions of the Federal
Constitution. The State is left to choose its own methods
of taxation and its form and manner of enforcing the payment of the public revenues, subject, so far as the Federal
power is concerned, to the restricting regulations of the
Constitution of the United States.
Passing questions which are purely of a state character
and which were ruled upon against the contentions of the
plaintiff in error by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, we
come to a consideration of the questions of a nature involving consideration of the Constitution of the Tnited
States.
It is first contended that the law in question imposes

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.

Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

penalties of a character which could not theretofore have
been imposed upon the owner of the land, as a condition of
saving the title from forfeiture under the provisions of
article III. The Court of Appeals of Kentucky having
intimated that the part of the law requiring the payment
of penalty and interest was separable from the other
features thereof, upon the rehearing, in 128 Kentucky,
610-624, held in answer to the contention that the taxes,
interest and penalties provided by the act visited upon the
delinquent greater penalties than he was subject to prior
to the passage of the act, that the article, in so far as it required the payment of interest and penalties for the years
covered by the act, is inoperative, and the delinquents for
those years would be required to pay only taxes, without
interest or penalty; and that the elimination of the interest and penalties for those years did not affect the other
provisions of the article with respect to those years or
years subsequent thereto.
We must therefore take the act as the Court of Appeals
of Kentucky has construed it, stripped of the requirement
to pay interest and penalties as a condition of saving the
lands from forfeiture.
It is nevertheless contended-and this is the first objection of a Federal nature-that the law is ex post facto.
It is to be noted in this connection that the law does not
undertake to forfeit the lands. only because of things done
or undone prior to its passage, but because of the failure
of the claimant to comply with the provisions of the law;
and he is given until the first of January, 1907, in which to
file a petition for the ascertainment of the taxes assessable
and due upon his title, and until March 1, 1907, to pay
the back taxes. But an ex post facto law and a retroactive
law are entirely different things.
Laws of a retroactive nature, imposing taxes or providing remedies for their assessment and collection and not
impairing vested rights, are not forbidden by the Federal

KENTUCKY UNION CO. v. KENTUCKY.
219 U. S.

153

Opinion of the Court.

Constitution. League.v. Texas, 184 U. S. 156. This court
had occasion in a very early case to consider the meaning
of an ex post facto law as the term is used in the Federal
Constitution, prohibiting the States from passing any law
of that character. Calder v, Bull, 3 Dall. 386-390. In
that case it held that such laws, within the meaning of the
Federal Constitution, had reference to criminal punishments, and did not include retrospective laws of a different character. That case has been cited and followed in
later cases in this court. See Kring v. Missouri, 107 U. S.
221; Orr v. Gilman, 183 U. S. 278, 285.
In the latter case a former decision of this court, in
Carpenter v. Pennsylvania, 17 How. 456, 463, opinion by
Mr. Justice Campbell, was quoted with approval. It was
therein said:
"The debates in the Federal convention upon the Constitution show that the terms 'ex post facto laws' were understood in a restricted sense, relating to criminal cases
only, and that the description of Blackstone of such laws.
was referred to for their meaning. 3 Madison Papers,
1399, 1450, 1579.*
"This signification was adopted in this court shortly
after its organization, in opinions carefully prepared, and
has been repeatedly. announced since that time. Calder
v. Bull, 3 Dall. 386; Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87; 8 Pet.
88; 11 Pet. 421."
The Kentucky statute as construed by the Court of
Appeals of Kentucky imposes no penalty or punishment :
of a criminal nature and is not an ex post facto law within
the meaning of the Federal Constitution.
. It is next contended that the Kentucky statute under
consideration denies to the plaintiffs in error due process of
law, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution.
This court has had frequent occasion to comment upon
the effect of this Amendment in respect to laws of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

States for the levy and collection of taxes. A summary
procedure has been sustained where the person taxed has
been allowed opportunity to be heard in opposition to the
enforcement of taxes and penalties against him. In McMillen v. Anderson, 95 U. S. 37, 41, this court said:
"The mode of assessing taxes in the States by the Federal government, and by all governments, is necessarily
summary, that it may be speedy and effectual. By summary is not meant arbitrary, or unequal, or illegal. It
must, under our Constitution, be lawfully done."
See in this connection Leigh v. Green, 193 U. S. 79; Ballard v. Hunter, 204 U. S. 241, and cases therein cited.
Summary proceedings adapted to thp circumstances
and permitting the taxpayer to appear and be heard at
some stage of the proceedings have been held to Satisfythe requirements of due process of law. Security Trust &
Safety Vault Co. v. Lexington, 203 U. S. 323.
The State of West Virginia, by its constitution, in
1872 inaugurated a system of forfeiture of lands for nonpayment of taxes in some respects analogous to the one under consideration n~w. The West Virginia system was before this court in King v. Mullins, 171 U. S. 404. In that
case due process of law, in connection with the taxing system of the State, was given full consideration; and the constitution of West Virginia, when read in connection with
the statutes of the State, was held to afford due process
of law. The constitution of the State of 1872, by article 13,
§6, made it'the duty of every owner of land to have it
entered on the land books of the county in which it, or a
part of it, is situated, and to cause himself to be charged
with the taxes thereon and pay the same; and when, for
any five successive years after the year 1869; the owner of
any tract of land containing one thousand acres or more
should not have been charged on such books with the.
state tax on said land, then by operation of the constitution the land was forfeited and the title vested in the

KENTUCKY UNION CO. v. KENTUCKY.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

State. The statute of the State provided for proceedings
by the commissioner of the school fund to subject forfeited
lands to sale, in which proceeding the owner was permitted
to intervene by petition and obtain a redemption of. his
land from the forfeiture claimed by the State ; and after a
full discussion of the subject and the bearings of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution upon the statute,
Mr. Justice Harlan, who delivered the opinion of the court,
said (p. 436):
"For the reasons stated, we hold that the system established by West Virginia under which lands liable to
taxation are forfeited to the State by reason of the owner
not having them placed or caused to be placed, during
five consecutive years, on the proper land books for taxation, and causing himself to be charged with. the taxes
thereon, and under which; on petition required to be filed
by the representative of the State in the proper Circuit
Court, such lands are sold for the benefit of the school
fund, with liberty to the owner, upon due notice of the
proceeding, to intervene by petition and secure a redemption of his lands from the forfeiture declared by paying the
taxes and charges due upon them, is not inconsistent with
the due process of law required by the Constitution of the
United States or the constitution of the State."
In the present case the statute does not undertake to
forfeit the lands for the failure to register them and pay
the taxes upon them for the years stated, without a judicial proceeding by which, the owner of the title may have
the taxes assessed and upon payment thereof the forfeiture
avoided; and the forfeiture is declared only after a judicial
proceeding instituted by the Commonwealth's attorney,
in which there is opportunity for a hearing, and after which
the forfeiture may be declared.
The case of King v. Mullins, supra, was followed and
approved-in this court in King v. West Virginia, 216 U.;S.
92, and in Fay v. Crozer, 217 U. S. 455.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

It is however insisted that although a hearing before
forfeiture is provided the proceedings are so arbitrary and
oppressive as to deprive the owner of due process of law,

notwithstanding there is opportunity to appear and con,test the forfeiture.
As bearing upon this alleged lack of due process in this
statute it is contended that it cuts down the period of
limitation in which actions may be brought by the holder
of the title to recover against adverse claimants, and this
because of the short time given in which to take proceedings against such claimants. The argument is that as
§ 6 of article III transfers the forfeited title to occupying
claimants in actual adverse possession for five years next
'preceding the judgment of forfeiture, and as the statute of
limitations for the recovery of real property in Kentucky
is fifteen years, there was still ten years in which to have

sued an occupying claimant of five years' standing, but
because of the action required to prevent forfeiture under
article III, which it is contended Under the Kentucky constitution did not take effect until ninety days after the
adjournment of the session at which it .was passed, there

was visitetd upon the owner the necessity of terminating
.the adverse possession by an action brouight within six
and one-half months. But we do not perceive in this indirect effect upon the statute of limitations any deprivation of due process of law. The state statute limiting actions between individuals cannot operate to affect the
right of the State to require the registration of the lands
withheld from taxation, or prevent acts for the summary
registration or forfeiture of such lands, wherein, as in the
case at bar, an opportunity, not unreasonable in character,

is given for compliance with the laws after the same go into
effect, and the forfeiture is had upon a proceeding in which
the owner of the title is summoned and heard.
A time not unreasonably short for the beginning of actions may be fixed by the legislature, having in view par-

KENTUCKY UNION CO. v. KENTUCKY.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ticular conditions without violating the due process clause.
Terry .v. Anderson, 95 U. S. 628.
Much is said of the purpose of this law not being that of
legitimate taxation, but intended to and in its operation
having the practical effect of transferring the title of the
owners to others. This argument is based upon the pro-.
vision of the statute which makes the title, when forfeited
to the State, inure to the benefit of occupants in possession
who have paid the taxes as provided in the act. This
feature of the law, in substance, is in the West Virginia
constitution, and was referred to in the opinion in King v.
Mullins, 171 U. S. supra.
It is not a valid objection to a law of this character that
the title forfeited to the State as the result of proper proceedings and due notice to the owner of the title who is in
default for the payment of taxes, may be transferred to
others occupying and paying taxes upon the lands and not
in default. That the similar feature of the West Virginia
constitution did not invalidate the law where opportunity
was given for a hearing was held in King v. West Virginia,
216 U. S. supra, to have been concluded by King v. Mullins, supra, and the same doctrine was applied in Fay v.
Crozer, 217 U. S. 455. This view may have the effect of
subjecting the owner of the title which is forfeited to proceedings which divest his title, notwithstanding another
claimant may have paid taxes upon a separate title in the
same land; but this consideration does not affect the validity of the law. The State may, so far as the Federal Constitution is concerned, tax each claimant of title upon the
same premises and may, by a proper procedure, divest the
owner of one in default.
Much comment is made upon the statement in the opinion of the learned Chief Justice of Kentucky, who spoke for
the court in No. 47, as to the purpose of the State to incidentally "outlaw" the titles claimed under the old Virginia grants for the benefit of occupying claimants, but as

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U.S.

was held in King v. Mullin8, and the subsequent cases in
this court following that case, this effect of a valid law of
the State having also for its object the subjection of the
lands to taxation, does not invalidate the law.
Nor do we find valid objection to the constitutionality
of the law in the contention that the lands not transferred
may be sold without adequate description.
This contention seems to have been made in case No. 22
by objections to the petition for failing to disclose what
parts, if any, of the land were held by occupants who had
paid taxes for five years preceding, and by objection to the
judgment as erroneous because it did not segregate the
parts to which the forfeited title would inure.
No mention appears to have been made of the Federal
Constitution in this connection until petition for a rehearing, when it was objected that the statute in providing for the sale of the forfeited title furnished no means of
identification or description of the land to be sold, nor for
such an ascertainment of the holdings of occupying claimants as would enable a purchaser to know what was being
offered for sale, and it wao urged that a judicial sale in
pursuance of such a proceeding would be no less than a
sacrifice of the defendant's property, and that such an
order would violate the due process of law secured by the
Constitution.
In the opinion upon the petition for a rehearing the
Court of Appeals announced that it found nothing in the
statute which deprived the owner of due process of law
within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment, the
court having thus considered the Federal question, the
objection is open here.
In the original opinion concerning this objection the
court said:
"So far as disclosed by the record, there is no part of the
tract held by occupants. But the court judicially knows,
and it was admitted in argument, that practically, if not

KENTUCKY UNION CO. v. KENTUCKY.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

quite, all the land described in the petition is adversely
held by occupants under claim or color of title. The record
shows only that the appellant is the owner or claimant of
the title to the tract of land, which is specifically described,
by metes and bounds, courses and distances, and that appellant has failed to comply with the provisions of the article with respect to the listing of it foi taxes and the payment of taxes thereon. The petition contains all the
allegations necessary to show that the appellant was delinquent, and its title subject to forfeiture, and the demurrer thereto was, therefore, properly overruled., Nor
is the judgment erroneous on that ground. Certainly the
title to the tract of land described in the petition, and
which is adjudged to be subject to forfeiture and sale,
can be sold by the same description, the purchaser taking
that which, under the article, passes at the sale. ' The
doctrine of caveat emptor applies in this, as in other proceedings. And the purchaser, and. not -the occupant, as
argued by counsel for appellant, would be required -to
show, in actions to recover under his purchase, that the
land claimed by him was not of the excluded class. The
rule is universal that where one seeks to recover under a
grant or deed which does not convey all the land within
the boundary described, he must show that the land sought
to be recovered is within the boundary and without the
exclusions. Hall v. Maitin, 89 Kentucky, 9.
"The act provides that the deed shall transfer to the
purchaser the title and claim: 'So forfeited and transferred
to, and vested in, the Commonwealth, as remains in it
after the operation of section six of this article, and shall
so recite.'
"The article, taken as a whole, clearly shows that such
was the legislative intent. It is not necessary for the petition to describe more than the tract of land the title to
which is sought to be forfeited.
"After the judgment of forfeiture becomes final, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

main purpose to be conserved is the interest of the Commonwealth, and circumstances might arise or be shown to
exist that would authorize different modes of executing it.
We have no hesitancy in holding that it is not necessary
for the judgment to ascertain and describe the parts of
the tract held by occupants. If, at the hearing, it should
be made manifest that the title as to certain parts only of
the tract would pass to the purchaser under a sale, the
statute would be complied with by a sale of the title covering those parts alone. In any event, it is the duty of the
court to prescribe what parts thereof shall be sold, if less
than the whole is to be sold. Therefore, the judgment appealed from, in so far as it authorizes the commissioner to
sell the tract as a whole or in parcels, to suit the purchaser,
is erroneous."
As we construe this part of the opinion, it means that
it was not necessary in the petition for forfeiture to point
out and describe the parts of the tract held by occupants.
But from what is said in the latter part of the paragraph
just quoted we think that it is apparent that the defendant
might show what parts of the land were subject to sale, if
less than the whole was to be sold. That is, while in the
absence of a showing in this matter, a sale in gross would
be ordered, it was nevertheless open for the defendant to
show that only a part of the tract, in view of other provisions of the statute, would be slbject to sale. With the
opportunity to be thus heard, and have a definite ascertainment of the parts to be sold, we think the statute, as
construed by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, does not
deprive the defendant of due process of law in this respect.
It is alleged that there was an offer to pay the taxes
properly assessable against these lands, notwithstanding
which they were declared forfeited; but an inspection of
the record shows that such offer was in effect an offer of
compromise, not justified by the statute and not in accord
with its terms.

KENTUCKY UNION CO. v. KENTUCKY.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

1'he denial of the prayer of the petition involved in case
No. 47, because the same did not contain a description of
the land sufficient to identify it, which was the basis of
the decision of the Kentucky Court of Appeals, presents
no Federal question. Whether that petition contained an
adequate description was a question for the State to determine in the construction of its own statute. There is
nothing to show that the ruling made upon that subject
was so arbitrary and baseless as to amount to a deprivation of due process of law.
It is next contended that the statute denies the equal
protection of the laws within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment, because it does not apply equally
upon all the lands in the State. The fact that in its application it can only meet conditions such as are embraced
within the law in a part of the counties of 'the State does
not render it obnoxious to the Fourteenth Amendment.
FloridaR. R. Co. v. Reynolds, 183 U. S. 471.
This court has frequently held that the State may classify the subjects of taxation, so long as all persons similarly
situated are treated alike. Michigan Central R. R. Co. v.
Powers, 201 U. S. 245. This law applies with equal force
to all wbo are in a condition to come within its terms.
The fact that the plaintiff in error did not acquire the
land until after the delinquencies had occurred cannot prevent the operation of the law against it. In such cases
the doctrine of innocent purchasers does not apply. Citizens' Natl. Bank v. Kentucky, 217 U. S. 443.
Another ground of objection under the Federal Constitution is insisted upon in the alleged violation of the Virginia Compact of 1789, embodied in the constitution of
Kentucky, and held by this court to be a binding contract
between the States. By the seventh section of that compact it is provided:
"SEc. 7. Third, that all private rights and interests of
lands within the said district [Kentucky] derived from the
VOL. ccxix-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

laws of Virginia prior to such separation shall remain
valid and secure under the laws of the proposed State anct
shall be determined by the laws now existing in this State."
Section 8 provides that a neglect of cultivation or improvement of any land withii either the proposed State or
the Commonwealth of Virginia belonging to non-resident
citizens of the other, shall not subject such non-residents
to forfeiture or other penalty- within the term of six years
after the admission of the said State (Kentucky) into the
Federal Union.
Section 9 provides that no grant of land or land warrant to be issued by the proposed State shall interfere with
any warrant theretofore issued from the land office of
Virginia, which shall be located on land within the said
district, now liable thereto, on or before the first day of
September, 1791.
This compact has been the subject of frequent consideration in the courts of Kentucky and more than once in
this court.
In the case of Green v. Biddle, 8 Wheat. 1, the effect of
this compact upon certain laws of the State of Kentucky
was considered and determined. The case was twice argued, on the first hearing the opinion being given by Mr.
Justice Story, and upon rehearing the opinion was given
by Mr. Justice Washington. In that case it was held that
the seventh article of the compact mdant to secure all
private rights and interests derived from the laws of Virginia as they were under the then existing laws of that
State, and that laws of the State of Kentucky which undertook to prevent the owner of the land from a recovery
thereof, without certain payments to the tenant in possession, impaired the obligation of the contract and were,
therefore, null and void.
Under the Kentucky statutes the owner could not recover his property without paying for improvements made
by the occupying claimant and making allowances in con-

KENTUCKY UNION CO. v. KENTUCKY.
219 U. S.

163

Opinion of the Court.

nection therewith, which it was'held had the effect of
depriving the true owner of the property vested in him
under the laws of Virginia at the time the compact became
operative in 1789. "He [the owner] is no more bound,"
said Mr. Justice Story, "by the laws of Virginia to pay for
improvements, which he has not authorized, which he
may not want, or which he may deem useless, than he is
to pay a sum to a stranger for the liberty of possessing
and using his own property, according to the rights and

interests secured to him by those laws. It is. no answer
that the acts of Kentucky, now in question, are regulations
of the remedy, and not of the right to lands. If those
acts so changed the nature and extent of existing remedies,
as materially to impair the rights and interests of the
owner, they are just as much a violation of the compact as
if they directly overturned his rights and interests."
These conclusions were adhered to upon a rehearing and
reaffirmed in the opinion of Mr. Justice Washington.
The Virginia compact came again before this court in
the case of Hawkins v. Barney's Lessee, 5 Pet. 457. In
that case the validity of a law of Kentucky which undertook to limit the right of bringing suits for the recovery of lands to seven years, instead of twenty, as was
'the case under the laws of Virginia at the time the compact was made, was sustained. The case of Green v.
Biddle was reviewed, and it was said that, "looking
through the course of legislation in Virginia, there was
found no principle or precedent to support such laws, the
court was induced to pass upon them as laws calculated
in effect to annihilate the rights secured by the compact,
while they avoided an avowed collision with its literal
mening. But in all their reasoning on the subject they
will be found to acknowledge that whatever course of legislation could be sanctioned by the principles and practice
of Virginia would be regarded as an unaffected compliance
with the compact."

OCTOBER.TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

And Mr. Justice Johnson, who spoke for the court in
that case, said:
"It can, scarcely be supposed that Kentucky would have
consented to accept a limited and crippled sovereignty;
nor is it doing justice to Virginia to believe that she would
have wished to reduce Kentucky to a state of vassalage.
Yet it would be difficult, if the literal and rigid construction necessary to exclude her from passing this law were
to be adopted, it would be difficult, I say, to assign her a
position higher than that of a dependent on Virginia. Let
the language of the compact be literally applied, and we
have the anomaly presented'of a sovereign State governed
by 'the laws of another sovereign; of one-half the territory
of a sovereign State hopelessly and forever subjected to
the laws of another State. Or a motley multiform administration of laws, under which A would be subject to one
class of laws, because holding under a Virginia grant;
while B, his next-door neighbor, claiming from Kentucky,
would hardly be conscious of living under the same government."
And the learned judge referred to the language of the
eighth article of the compact, recognizing the power of
Kentucky to pass similar laws to those which existed in
Virginia, after the period of six years; referring to the
laws of Virginia, where one who had received a grant of
land had failed, at first in three and afterwards in five
years, to seat and improve it, and was held to have abandoned it as lapsed and forfeited land, and any one might
take out a grant for it.
We think the effect of these decisions is to declare that
while the Virginia compact prevents the cutting down of
the titles secured under the State of Virginia prior to its
date, so as to take away substantial rights incident to the
title, as was the case in Green v. Biddle, supra, it did not
mean to prevent the State, upon notice and hearing, from
requiring the registration of land titles for taxation, or, in

KENTUCKY UNION CO. v. KENTUCKY.
219 U. S.

165

Opinion of the Court.

default thereof, from forfeiting such titles to the State.
These laws do not have the effect of taking away legitimate
rights secured by the old grants, but enable the new sovereign to enforce against such lands, as well as others, the
taxing laws of the State. It was of course recognized that
the land would pass under the dominion of a new State,
which would require revenues for its support, and while
the title obtained from the State of Virginia was protected,
it was not intended that it should be immune from constitutional laws having the effect to subject such lands to
the taxing power of the new sovereignty and to require
their owners, by all proper methods, to contribute their
share to the public burdens of the State.
As we have said, many considerations are urged against:
the policy and justice of this statute, and other objections
are made which depend solely upon the laws of the State
and their interpretation by the courts of the State. We
are unable to ind that rights secured by the Federal Constitution were denied by the judgments of the Court of
Appeals of Kentucky.
The judgments in each and all of the cases are therefore
Affirmed.

