AMERICAN LAND CO. v. ZEISS.
219 U. S.

Syllabus.

AMERICAN LAND COMPANY v. ZEISS.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 230. Argued October 14, 17, 1910.-Decided January 3, 1911.
The general welfare of society is involved in the security and registry
of titles to real estate, and those subjects are within the police power
of the State.
A State, in the exercise of its inherent power to legislate in regard to
title to the soil within its confines, may, without violating the Federal Constitution, require parties owning and in possession of land
to establish title by judicial proceedings before properly constituted
tribunals, and this power extends to non-resident owners of land
who may be brought before such tribunals by publication.
A State possesses, and, after such a disaster to a community as befell
San Francisco, California, by fire and earthquake in 1906, in which
nearly all the public records of registered titles to real estate were
destroyed, may exercise, the power to remedy the confusion. and
uncertainty arising from the catastrophe.
Undisclosed and unknown claimants are as dangerous to\he stability
of titles to real estate as other classes, and they are not deprived of
their property without due process of law if compelled to establish
their titles by judicial proceeding before a properly constituted tribunal on adequate published notice, if given an opportunity to be
heard and properly protected in case of fraud.
A state statute, passed after such a catastrophe as visited San Francisco in 1906 for the purpose of reestablishing titles to real estate,
which permits an action. for that purpose to be brought by parties
-vho are themselves or by those holding under them, in actual and
peaceable possession of the property described in the summons, and
which requires the plaintiff to make affidavit before the summons is
issued that he does not know and has never been. informed of any
adverse claimants not named in the summons, and also requires
summons to be published at least once a week for two months,
posted on each parcel of' the property, and to be recorded and prop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Statement of the Case.

219 U. S.

erly indexed' in the recorder's office, and served upon all claimants
whose names and whereabouts could be ascertained, gives an adequate opportunity to all persons interested in the property to establish their rights and does not deprive unknown claimants of their
property without due process of law.
The Fourteenth Amendment does not operate to deprive the States
of their lawful power; the due" process clause of that Amendment
only restrains such exertions of power as are so unreasonable and
unjust as to impair or destroy fundamental rights and, therefore,
not really within lawful power of the State.
This court in determining the constitutionality of a state statute is
bound by the construction given to it by the highest court of the
State and will treat it as exacting whatever the state court has declared that it exacts either expressly or' by implication.
In determining the constitutionality of a state statute under the due
process clause, the criterion is not whether any injury to an individual is possible, but whether the requirements as to notice and opportunity to protect property rights affected are just and reasonable.
It being within the.power of the State to determine how title to real
estate shall be proved, it isalso *ithin the legislative competency
of that State to establish the method of procedure.
Due process of law requires that there shall be jurisdiction of, and notice to, the parties, and opportunity to be heard; and, subject to
these conditions, the State has power to regulate procedure. Twining v. New Jersey, 211 U. S. 78.

The California statute, c. 59, of June 16, 1906, to establish titles in
case of loss of public records, passed after the earthquake and
fire of April, 1906, as construed by the highest state court, is within
the legislative power of the State, provides adequate notice and
protection to unknown claimants, affords opportunity to be heard
and is not unconstitutional under the Fourteenth Amendment as
depriving unknown claimants of their property without due process
of law.

As a result of the conditions caused in San Francisco by
the great calamity of earthquake and fire, which befell
that city in April, 1906, ad extraordinary session of the
legislature of California was convoked. One reason stated
for the call was the necessity of providing for restoring
the record title to land in San Francisco. An act to ac-

AMERICAN LAND CO. v. ZEISS.
219 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

complish that purpose became a law upon its approval
on June 16, 1906. It is copied on the margin.'
The Circuit Court of Appeals has certified the issues
involved in a pending cause, the determination of which
rests upon the validity of the statute just referred to.
The pertinent facts arising on the record of the cause are
stated in the certificate, and are hereafter set forth. The
purpose contemplated is to obtain instructions as to
I

Chapter 59.

An act to provide for the establishment and quieting of title to real
property in case of the loss or destruction of public records.
[Approved June 16, 1906.]
The people of the State of California, represented in Senate and Assembly, do enact as follows:
SEC. 1. Whenever the publid records in the office of a county recorder have been, or shall hereafter be, lost or destroyed, in whole or
in any material part, by flood, fire or earthquake, anyperson who
claims an estate of inheritance, or for life in, and who is by himself or
his tenant, or other person, holding under him, in the actual and peaceable possession of any real property in such county, may bring and
maintain an action in rem against all the world, in the Superior Court
for the county in which such real property is situate, to establish his
title to such property and to determine all adverse claims thereto.
Any numbef of separate parcels of land claimed by the plaintiff may
be included in the same action.
SEC. 2. The action shall be commenced by the filing of a verified
complaint, in which the-party so commencing the same shall be named
as plaintiff, and the defendants shall be described as "all persons
claiming any interest in, or lien upon the real property herein described,
or any part thereof," and shall contain a statement of the facts enumerated in section one of this act, a particular description of such real
property, and a specification of the estate, title, or interest of the plaintiff therein.
SEC. 3. Upon the filing of the complaint a summons must be issued
under the seal of the court, which shall contain the name of the court
and county in which the action is brought, the name of the plaintiff
and a particular description of the real property involved, and shall
be directed to "all persons claiming any interest in, or lien upon the
VOL. CCXIX-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Statement of the Case.

219 U. S.

whether the act in question "is violative of the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States,"
and whether by virtue of a decree rendered by the Sureal property herein described, or any part thereof," as defendants, and
shall be substantially in the following form:
"In the Superior Court of the State of California, in and for the County
(or City and County) of -_
Action No.

-.

Plaintiff,

vs.
'All Persons Claiming Any Interest in, or Lien upon the Real Property
Herein Described, or Any Part Thereof, Defendants.
The People of the State of California, to all persons claiming any interest in, or liens upon, the real property herein described, or any
part thereof, defendants, Greetings:
You are hereby required to appear" and answer the complaint of
, plaintiff, filed with the clerk of the above entitled court
and county, within three months after the first publication of this
summons, and to set forth whau interest or lien, if any, you have in or
upon that certain real property or any part thereof, situated in the
county (or city and county) of
, State of California, particularly described as follows: (Here insert description.)
And you are hereby notified that, unless you so appear and answer,
the plaintiff will apply to the court for the relief demanded in the complaint, to wit: (Here insert a statement of the relief so demanded.)
Witness my hand and the seal of said court, this
day of
A.D..
[SEAL]_
, Clerk."
SEC. 4. The summons shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation, published in the county in which thb action is brought.
The newspaper in which such publication is to be made shall be designated by an order of the court or a judge thereof to be signed and
filed with the clerk. No other order for the publication of the summons
shall be necessary, nor shall any affidavit therefor be required, nor, need
any copy of the complaint be served, except as hereinafter required.
The summons shall be published at least once a week for a period of
two months, and to each publication thereof shall be appended a memorandum, in substance as follows:
"The first publicition of this summons was made in -(here

AMERICAN LAND CO. v. ZEISS.
.219 U. S.

Statement, of the Case.

perior Court of the city and county of San Francisco, referred fo iii the recital'of facts, the American Land Company "has been deprived of its property without due
process of law."
insert the name) newspaper on the - day of
- A. D.
; (inserting the date)."
And if the affidavit provided for in section five of this act discloses
the name of any person claiming an interest in'the property, or a lien
thereon adverse to the plaifitiff, that fact together with the name and
address (if given) of said person shall be stated in a memorandum to be
appended to the summons in substance as follows:
'.'The following persons are said to claim an interest in, or lien upon
said property adverse to plaintiff, (giving their names and addresses as
above provided). A copy of the summons, together with a copy of the
foregoing memoranda, shall be posted in a conspicuous place on each
parcel of the property described in the complaint within fifteen days
after the firstpublication of the summons."
SC. 5. At the time of filing the complaint, the plaintiff shall file
with the same his affidavit, fully and explicitly setting forth and showing (1) the character of his estate, right, title, interest or claim in, and
possession of the property, during what period the same has existed
and from whom obtained; (2) whether or not he has ever made any
conveyance of the property, or any part thereof, or any interests
therein, and if so, when and to whom; also a statement of any and all
subsisting mortgages, deeds of trust, and other liens thereon; (3) that
he does not know and has never been informed of any other person
who claims br who may claim, any interest in, or lien upon, the property or any part thereof, adversely to him, or if he does know or has
been informed of any such person, then the name and address of such
person. If the plaintiff is unable to state any one or more of the matters herein required, he shall set forth and show, fully and explicitly,
the reasons for such inability. Such affidavit shall constitute a part
of the judgment roll. If the plaintiff be a corporation, the affidavit
shall be made by an officer thereof. If the plaintiff be a person under
guardianship the affidavit shall be made by his guardian.
SEc. 6. If the said affidavit discloses the name of any person claiming any interest in, or lien upon, the-property adverse to the plaintiff,
the summons shall also be personally served upon such person if he
can be found within the State, together with a copy of the complaint
and a copy of said affidavit during the period of the publications of the
summons; and to the copy of the summons delivered to any such per-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Statement of the Case.

219 U. S.

The following are the facts recited in the certificate:
"The appellant as complainant in the court below
brought its bill in equity against the appellee to remove
son there shall be appended a copy of the memoranda provided for in
section four hereof.
If such person resides out of this State a copy of the summons,
memoranda, complaint and affidavit shall be within fifteen days after
the first publication of the summons deposited in the United States
post office, enclosed in a sealed envelope, postage prepaid, addressed
to such person at the address given in the affidavit, or if no address be
given therein, then at the county seat at the county in which the action is brought. If such person resides within this State and could not
with due diligence be found within the State, within the period of the
publication of the summons, then said copies aforesaid shall be mailed
to him as above provided forthwith upon the expiration of said period
of publication.
SEC. 7. Upon the completion of the publication and posting.of the
summons and its service. upon and mailing to the person, if any, upon
whom it is hereby directed to be so specially served the court shall
have full and complete jurisdiction over the plaintiff and the said
property and of the person of every one claiming any estate, right,
title or ifiterest, in or to, or lixi upon, said propcity, or any part thereof,
and shall be deemed to have obtained the possession and control of
said property for the purposes of the ation, and shall have full and
complete jurisdiction" to render the judgment therein which is provided
for in this act.
SEC. 8. At any time within three months from the first publication
of the summons, or within such further time, not exceeding thirty days,
as the court may, for good cause, grant, any person having or claiming any estate, right, title or interest, in or to, or lien upon, said property, or any part thereof, may appear and make himself a party to
the action by pleading to the complaint. All answeir must be verified
and must specifically set forth the estate, right, title, interest, or lien,
so clairfied.
SEC. 9. The plaintiff must, at the time of filing the complaifit, and
every defendant claiming any affirmative relief must, at the tirpe of
filing his answer, record in the office of the recorder of the county in
which the property is situated, a notice of tihe pendency of the action
containing the object of the action or defense, and a particular'description of the property affected thereby; and the recorder shall record the
same in a book-devoted exclusively to the recordation of such notices

AMERICAN LAND CO. v. ZEISS.
219 U. S.

Statemeni of the Case.

a cloud from its title to real property and to quiet its title
thereto. The bill alleges on April 10, 1908, and at all the
times prior thereto referred to in the bill, George H. Lent
and shall enter, upon a map or plat of the parcels of land, to be kept
by him for that purpose, on that part of the map or plat representing
the parcel or parcels so described a reference to the (late of the filing
of subh notice and, when recorded, to the book and page of the record
thereof.
SEC. 10. No judgment in any such action shall be given by default;
but the court must require proof of the facts alleged in the complaint
and other pleadings.
SEC. 11. The judgment shall ascertain and determine all estates,
rights, titles and interests and claims in and to said property and every
part thereof, whether the sime be legal or equitable, present or future,
vested or contingent, or whether the same consist of mortgages or liens
of any description and shall be binding and conclusive upon every person who, at the time of the commencement of the action, had or claimed
any estate, right, title or interest in or to said property, or any part
thereof, and upon every person claiming under him by title subsequent
to the commencement of the action. A certified copy of the judgment
in such action shall be recorded in the office of the recorder of the
county in which said action was commenced, and any party or the
successor in interest of any party to said action may, at his option, file
for record in the office of the recorder of such county the entire Judgment roll in said action.
SEC. 12. Except as herein otherwise provided, all the provisions
and rules of law relating to evidence, pleading, practice, new trials and
appeals, applicable to other civil actions, shall apply to the actions
hereby authorized.
At any time after the issuance of the summons, any party to the
action may take depositions therein, in conformity to law, upon notice
to the adverse party sought to be bound by such depositions, and who
have appeared in the action (if any) and upon notice filed with the
clerk. The depositions may be used by any party against any other
party giving or receiving the notice (except the clerk) subject to all
just exceptions.
SEC. 13. The clerk shall number consecutively in a distinct
series
all actions hereby authorized, and shall kee l) an index and r~gister'
thereof devoted exclusively to such actions.
SEC. 14. Whenever judgment in an action hereby authorized shall
have been entered as to any real property, no other action relative to

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Statement of. the Case.

219 U. S.

and Mary G. Coggeshali were severally the owners in fee
simple of two adjacent lls of land in San Francisco, which
lots are described in the bill. The lots and others similarly situated are -known as City Slip and Water Lots.
Under the provisions of an act of the legislature of the
State of California, approved March 5, 1851 (Stats. of
1851, page 764), the State leased this property to the city
of San Francisco for the term of ninety-nine years. The
appellee is alleged to be the owner of 'the unexpired portion of .this lease as successor in interest of the city's right,
and to be entitled to the possession -thereof until March 26,
1950. The bill alleges that the appellee has no right whatever other than this right of possession and occupation;
that notwithstanding the prcmises, the appellee claims
to be the owner in fee simple of said lands under a judgment and decree of the Superior Court of the State of
California in and for the city and county of San Francisco, made and entered December 19, 1906, in a proceeding entitled 'Louis Zeiss, plaintiff,. vs. All persons claiming any interest in, or lien upon the real property herein
the same property or any part thereof maintained under this act shall
be tried until proof shall first have been made to the court that all persons who appeared in the first action, or their successors in interest,
have been personally served with the papers mentioned in'section 6 of
this act, either within or without this State, more than one -month before the time to plead expired.
SEC. 15. An executor, administrator or guardian or other person
holding the possession of property in the right of another may maintain as plaintiff, and may appear and defend in the action herein provided for.
SEC. 16. The word "county" whenever used in this act includes and
applies to a consolidatedc city and county.
SEC. 17: The remedies provided for by this act shall be deemed
.cumulative, and in addition to any other remedy now or hereafter
provided by law for quieting or establishing title to real property.
. SEc. 18. All actions authorized hereby must be commenced before
July
16t,19.19LV.
Szc..
This act shall be in force thirty days after its passage.

AMERICAN LAND CO. v. ZEISS.
219 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

described, or any part thereof, defendants;' that said
proceeding was brought under an act of the legislature
of the State of California, entitled 'An Act to'provide
for the establishment and quieting of title to real property in case of the loss or destruction of public records,'
approved June 16, 1906; that said claim of the appellee
under said decree is without right, and said decree is void;
that in. the complaint in that proceeding the appellee,
after properly setting forth the destruction of the records,
alleged that he was the owner in fee simple, free of incumbrance, of the lands which are described in the bill
in this case, and that ho prayed for a decree of the Superior Court adjudging his title to be as set forth by him;
that at the thne of filing his complaint he filed his affidavit setting forth the character of the estate, the source
of his title, his possession, and- stating that he had made
no conveyance of the land, that there were no liens on it,
and that he did not know and that he had never been informed of any other person who claimed or may claim
any interest or lien upon the property, or any part thereof,
adversely to him. The affidavit contained no averment
that inquiry of any kind had been made to ascertain
whether such adverse claim did exist. It is shown in the
bill that in said proceeding under said act of the legislature, summons was published in the Law Recorder for the
space of two months, and was also posted on the land,
and that after the period of publication of the summons
the appellee herein obtained a decree of the court as
prayed for by him. The bill further alleges that although
the appellant's grantors were at all times citizens and residents of California, not seeking to evade but ready to
accept service of summons, and easily reached for that
purpose, no service was made upon them, nor did they
in any way receive notice of the pendency of the action,
nor did they gain any knowledge of the existence of the
decree until more than a year after its entry. A demur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellant.

219 U. S.

rer was interposed to the bill in the court below for want
of equity, which demurrer was sustained by the court
and the bill was dismissed."
Mr. C. Irving Wright, with whom Mr. Charles Page,
Mr. Edward J. McCutchen and Mr. Samuel Knight were
on the brief, for appellant:
To constitute due process of law in judicial proceedings involving adversary rights of property there must be
actual and adequate notice, giving a real and substantial,
and not merely a formal and illusory, opportunity to controvert the plaintiff's allegations. Roller v. Holly, 176
U. S. 398.
A judgment in such cases can conclude the rights of
parties and privies only. This in an immutable principle
< of justice. Hollingsworth v. Barbour, 4 Pet. 466, 475.
Res judicata according to the law of any civilized country
is that the court after argument and consideration, came to
a decision on a contested matter. Jenkins v. Robertson, 1
Scotch App. 117; Tregea v. Modesto, 164 U. S.179.
Such actions differ among other things from actions
which are strictly in rem in that the interest of the defendant is alone sought to be affected, that citation to him is
required and that judgment therein is only conclusive between the parties.
In proceedings termed quasi in rem there is a suit against
a personal defendant by name. The Ad. Hine, 4 Wall. 571,
and see Freeman v. Alderson, 119 U. S. 185; Mayor v.
Shareholders, 6 A. C. House of Lords, 393; Fisher v. Lane,
3 Wils. 297.
No reasonable notice can be imparted by a publication
not naming or describing the person to be cited and not
making any allegation against him. The naming of the
party is "of the very life of the notice."
The act is invalid, even within the extreme doctrine
of the Massachusetts case, for not requiring any effort to

AMERICAN LAND CO. v. ZEISS.
.219 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

ascertain claimants before concluding the rights of those
who are unnotified because alleged to be unknown. Tyler
v. The Judges, 175 Massachusetts, 71; State v. Guilbert,
56 Ohio St. 575; Peopie v. Simon, 176 Illinois, 165; State v.
Westfall, 85 Minnesota, 437; Dewey v. Kimball, 89 Minnesota, 454.
Proceedings under the act cannot, without violation
of the principles of natural justice, be brought within the
class of -cases where constructive service is permissible.
Cases supra and Bruce v. Watt, 1 M. & G. 1; 89 E. C. L.
612; but see also Mayor v. Cox, L. R, 2 H. L. 239; Hart v.
Samson, 110 U. S. 151.
While a court may be empowered to determine the title
to real estate within its limits, as against a non-resident
defendant, notified only by publication, this, however,
will not justify a pretended notice against natural justice.
Arndt v. Griggs, 134 U. S. 316; Meyer v. Kuhn, 65 Fed.
Rep. 705.
Only conflicting titles can be adjudicated upon constructive service even as against 'named non-residents.
The McEnerney Act, however, attempts to conclude nonadversary interests. Remer v. McKay, 54 Fed. Rep. 432.
It does not provide reasonable 'constructive service upon
claimants who have not been ascertained, even if it could
be conceived that it does require any precautions to ascertain claimants.
No reasonable notice can be imparted by a publication
not naming or describing the person to be cited, and not
making any allegation against him. Pennsylvania Co. v.
Sears, 136 Indiana, 460; Fanning v. Krapft, 61 Iowa, 417;
Skelton v. Sacket, 91 Missouri, 377; Corrigan v. Schmidt,
126 Missouri, 304; Detroit v. Detroit City Ry. Co., 54 Fed.
Rep. 1; Netzorq v, Green, 26 Tex. Civ'. App. 119; Ohlmann
v. .Carkson,120 S. W. Rep. 1155.
The declaration of rights' upon mere ex parte applications is not the exercise of jucticial power. The property

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

of appellant cannot be transferred to appellee except by
the exercise of judicial power. Austin, 'Philosophy of
Jurisprudence, ยง 1036; Bouvier's Dictionary; Tregea v.
Modesto, 164 U. S. 179; Cushing,v. Laird, 107 U. S. 69.
If the complaint does not show a controversy, jurisdiction cannot be subsequently acquired. No anticipation
of defenses or defendants suffices. Blagge v. Moore, 6 Tex.
Civ. App. 359; Third St. R. R. Co. v. Lewis, 173 U. S.
457; Attorney General v. Avon, 3 De G., J. & S. 637; 333
L. J., Ch. 172; Bradstreet v. Neptune Ins. Co., 3 Sumn. 600;
Case of Prohibitions, 12 Coke's Rep. 63; Blackstone,
Book III, p. 25; Montesquieu, L'Esprit des Lois, livre xi,
c. vi.
The court does not go to meet the question. It waits
for the question to come to it. Bryce's Am. Com. 252;
Miller on Constitution, p. 348; Georgia v. Stanton, 6 Wall.
50; De Camp v. Archibald, 35 N. E. Rep. 1056, 1058; In re
Canadian Northern Ry., 7 Fed. Rep. 653; Brewington v.
Lowe, 1 Indiana, 21 ; Fuller v. Colfax County, 14 Fed. Rep.
177, 178; Lord v. Veazie, 8 How. 255; Livingston v. D'Orgenoy, 108 Fed. Rep. 469.
Mr. Otto turn Suden for appellee.
Mr. Garret W. McEnerney, with whom Mr. Walter
Rothchild was on the brief, by leave of the court as amici
curime in support of the validity of the McEnerney Act,
for appellee.
after making the foregoing
statement, deliveredthe opinion of the court.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE,

Although not objecting to an answer to the questions,
nevertheless the American Land Company, which was
the appellant below, suggests at bar a want of power to
reply to the questions for a twofold reason: First, because

AMERICAN LAND CO. v. ZEISS.
219 U. S.

59

Opinion of tte Court.

the certificate on its face indicates that the court below
was not in a state of mind which required the instruction
of this court, but was merely desirous of provoking a di.rect decision by this court, to avoid the delay and the
public inconvenience which otherwise might result. Second, because the certificate is so broad as simply to refer
the whole case to this court for decision instead of presenting definite propositions of law for solution. While
it may be that these suggestions find possible support,
considering the record in a detached way, we think when
the certificate is considered as a whole and the subject
with which it deals is properly weighed the suggestions
are without merit. We therefore pass to a consideration
of the questions propounded.
It is apparent that-the substantial considerations involved in the questi6ns certified are embraced in the following, a, the authority of the State to deal with the
subject With which the statute isconcerned; b, upon the
hypothesis of the existence of poter, the sufficiency of 'the
safeguards pTovikdin the statute; c,upon the like hypothesis the adequacy of the proceedings had in the particular cause with which the certificate deals. We shall
consider these subjects separately.
As to the power of the State.
The conditions which led to the legislation in question
were stated by the Supreme Court of California in Title &
Document Restoration Co. v. Kerrigan, Judge, 150 California, 289, 305. The court said:
"It is also a matter of common knowledge that in the
city and county of San Francisco, at least, if not in other
counties, the disaster of April last worked so great a destruction of the public records as to make it impossible
to trace any title with completeness of certainty. That
some provision was necessary to enable the holders and
owners of real estate in this city to secure to themselves
such evidence of title as would enable them, not only'to

OCTOBER TERM, .1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

defend their possession, but to enjoy and exercise the
equally important right of disposition, is. clear."
. As it is indisputable that the general welfare of society
is involved in the. security of the titles to real estate and
in the public registry of such titles, it is obvious that the
power to legislate as to -such subjects inheres in the very
nature of government.. This being true, it follows that
government possesses the power to remedy the confusion
and uncertainty as to registered titles arising from a disaster like that described by the court below. We might
well pursue no further the subject of the power of the
State to enact the law in question, and thus leave its authority to depend upon the demonstration necessarily resulting from the obvious considerations just stated. As,
however, the question of power is intimately interwoven
with the sufficiency of the procedure adopted, and as a
clear comprehension of the scope of the power will serve
to elucidate the question of procedure, we shall briefly
refer to some of the leading cases by which the elementary
doctrine of power over the subject of titles to real estate
and the application of that doctrine to a case like the
one in hand is settled beyond question. That a State has
the power, generally speaking, to provide for and .protect
individual rights to the soil within its confines and declare what shall form a cloud on the title tjibwh soil was
recognized in Clark v. Smith, 13. Pet. 195. Sq, also, it is
conclusively established that when the public interests
demand the law may require even a party in actual possession of land and claiming a perfect title to appear before a properly constituted tribunal and establish that
title by a judicial proceeding. Such was the method employed by the United States in settling as between itself
and claimants under Mexican grants the title to property
in California. Barker v. Harvey, 181 U. S. 481; Mitchell v.
Furman, 180 U. S. 402; Botiller v. Dominguez. 130 U. S.
238; More v. Steinbach, 127 U. S. 70.

AMERICAN LAND CO. v. ZEISS.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The question of what authority a State possesses over
titles to real estate, and what jurisdiction over the subject it may confer upon its courts, received much consideration in Arndt v. Griggs, 134 U. S. 316. It was there
held that, even as to ordinary controversies respecting
title to land arising between rival claimants, the State
possessed the power to provide for the adjudication of
titles to real estate not only as against residents, but as
against non-residents, who might be brought into court
by publication. In the course of the opinion the court
said (p. 320):
'1"It [the State] has control over property within its
limits; and the condition of ownership of real estate
therein, whether the owner be stranger or citizen, is subject to its rules concerning the holding, the transfer, liability to obligations, private or public, and the modes of
establishing titles thereto. It cannot bring the person of
a non-resident within its limits-its process goes not out
beyond its borders-but it may determine the extent of
'his title to real estate within its limits; and for the purpose of such determination may provide any reasonable,
methods of imparting notice. The well-being of every
community requires that the title to real estate therein
ahall be secure, and that there be convenient and certain
methods., .,..
Aermining any unsettled questions respecting it. TI.e dity of accomplishing this is local in its nature; it is not a matter of national concern or vested in
"thegeneral government; it remains with the State; and as
'this duty is one of the State, the manner of dischar ing
it- must be determined by the State, and no proceeding
which it provides can be declared invalid, unless it conflict with some special inhibitions of the Constitution,
or against natural justice."
Manifestly, under circumstances like those here pre"sented, the principle applies with equal force in the case,
of unknown claimants. Undisclosed and unknown claim-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

ants are, to say the least, as dangerous to the stability
of titles as other classes. This principle received recognition and was applied in Hamilton v. Brown, 161 U. S.
256, where it was held to be competent for a State to make
provision for promptly ascertaining, by appropriate judicial proceedings, who has succeeded to property upon
the death of a person leaving such property within the
State. It was said (p. 275):
"If such proceedings are had, after actual notice by
service of summons to all known claimants, and constructive notice by publication to all possible claimants who
are unknown, the final determination of the right of succession, either among private persons, as in the ordinary
administration of estates, or between all persons and the
State, as by inquest of office or similar process to determine whether the estate has escheated to the public, is
due process of law; and a statute providing for such proceedings and determination does not impair the obligation
of any contract contained in the grant under which the
former owner held, whether that grant was fronf the State
or from a private person."
The application of the doctrine of governmental power,
as just stated, to a condition like the one here in question
was aptly pointed out by the Supreme Court of Illinois
in Bertrand v. Taylor, 87 Illinois, 235, where, in considering the Illinois Burnt Record Act, the court said:
"It was demanded as a matter of safety in a great
emergency. It was not calculated to take any reasonable
being by surprise. It was known throughout the civilized world that a large part of the city of Chicago had
been destroyed by fire and that the records of courts and
the records of deeds were all destroyed. This naturally
commanded the attention of all reasonable persons everywhere, and called upon them to attend and see what means
would be adopted to mitigate the evils and dangers incident to the destruction. This legislation was not done

AMERICAN LAND CO. v. ZEISS.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in a corner, but before the observation of a civilized
world. We cannot doubt the power of the general assembly to pass the act."
The Supreme Court of California, in the Kerrigan case,
supra, addressing itself to the same subject, pertinently
observed (pp. 313, 314):
"Applying the principles which have led the courts in
cases like Arndt v. Griggs, 134 U. S. 316, and Perkins v.
Wakeham, 86 California, 580, to sustain judgments quieting titles against non-residents upon substituted servicef
why should not the legislature have power to. give. similar
effect to such judgments against unknown claimants
where the notice is reasonably full and complete? The
validity of such judgments against known residents is
based upon the ground that the State has power to provide for the determination of titles to real estate within
its borders, and that, as against non-resident defendants.
or others, Who cannot be served in the State, a substituted.
service is permissible, as being the only service possible.
These grounds apply with equal force to unknown claimants . The power of the State as to titles should .not be
limited to settling them as against persons named. In
order to exercise this power to its fullest extent, it is necessary that it should be made to operate on all interests,
known and unknown. As was said by Holmes, C. J., in
Tyler v. Judges of the Court of Registration, 175 Massachusetts, 71, in speaking of a statute which, in the particular
under discussion, was similar to ours: 'If it does not satisfy the Constitution, a judicial proceeding to clear titles
against all the world hardly is possible; for the very meaning of such a proceeding is to get rid of unknown as well
as known claimants-indeed, certainty against the unknown may be said to be its chief end-and unknown
claimants cannot be dealt with by personal service upon
the claimant.'"
The power exerted by the act being then clearly within

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

the legislative authority, we are brought to consider
whether the lawful power was manifested in such a manner as to cause the act to be repugnant to the Fourteenth
Amendment. And this brings us to the second proposition heretofore stated, viz.:
The adequacy of the safeguards.which the statute provides.
As no complaint is made concerning the provisions of
the statute relating to the designation of and notice to
known claimants, we put that subject out of view and
address ourselves to the provisions relating to unknown
claimants or claims. The action which the statute authorizes may be brought by "Any person who claims an
estate of inheritance, or for life in, and who is by himself
or his tenant, or other person, holding under him, in the
actual and peaceable possession of any real property"
situated in a county where "the public records in the
office of a county recorder have been lost or destroyed, in
whole or in any material part, by flood, fire or earthquake." In the caption of the complaint the statute
requires that the defendants shall be described as "all
persons claiming any inte-,'est in or lien upon the real
property herein described, or any part thereof." The summons is required to contain a description of the property
affected by the suit and to be directed to "all persons
claiming any interest in or lien upon the real property
herein described, or any part thereof." The summons is
to be published at least once a week for two months, and
the defendants are. commanded to appear and answer
within three months after the first publication of the
summons. A copy of the summons is required to be
posted in a conspicuous place on each separate parcel of
the property described in the complaint within fifteen
days after the first publication of the summons. At the
time of filing the complaint a notice of the pendency of
the action, giving among other things a particular description of the property affected thereby, must be re-

AMERICAN LAND CO. v. ZEISS.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

corded in the office of the recorder of the county in which
the property is situated, and it is made the duty of the
recorder to enter, "upon a map or plat of the parcels of
land, to be kept by him for that purpose, on that part of
the map or plat representing the parcel or parcels so described a reference to the date of the filing of such notice
and, when recorded, to the book and page of the record
thereof." In considering the statute we are bound by
the construction affixed to it by the Supreme Court of
the.State, and therefore treat as embraced within its terms
that which the highest court of the State has declared the
statute exacts, either expressly or by necessary implication. In the Kerrigan case, supra, it was held that the
result of the provisions of the statute was "to require
the complainant to designate and to serve as known
claimants all whom, with reasonable diligence, he could
ascertain to be claimants," a construction which, in effect
declared that the statute prohibited the omission of a
known claim or claimant, upon the conception that the
rights of such claim or claimant would be foreclosed by
the general designation and notice prescribed for unkndwn
claimants. And in Hoffman v. Superior Court, 151 California, 386, where the doctrine of the Kerrigan.case was
reiterated and applied, the court, after holding that the
statute requires the plaintiff in his affidavit to allege in
terms "that he does not know and has never been informed" of any adverse claimants whom he has not specifically named, pointed out that failure of the plaintiff
to make inquiry or to avail himself of knowledge which
would be imputed to him because of facts sufficient to put
him on inquiry as to the existence of adverse claims would
be available "in any subsequent attack upon the decree,
upon the ground that there was extraneous fraud of the
plaintiff in making a false affidavit to obtain jurisdiction."
It is to be borne in mind that it has been settled (Griffith v. Connecticut, 218 U. S. 563, and cases cited) that
VOL. CCXIX-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

the Fourteenth Amendment does not operate to deprive
the States of their lawful power, and of the right in the
exercise of such power to resort to reasonable methods
inherently belonging to the power exerted. On the contrary, the provisions of the due process clause only restrain those arbitrary and unreasonable exertions of power
which are not really within lawful state power, since they
are so unreasonable and unjust as to impair or destroy
fundamental rights.
It is to be observed that the statute not only requires a
disclosure by the plaintiff of all known claimants, but
moreover at the very outset contains words of limitation
that no one not in the actual and peaceable possession
of property can maintain the action which it authorizes.
No person can therefore be deprived of his property under
the statute unless he had not only gone out of possession
of such property and allowed another to acquire possession, or if he had a claim to such property or an interest
therein, had so entirely failed to disclose that fact as to
enable a possessor to truthfully make the affidavit which
the statute exacts of a want of all knowledge of the existence of other claimants than as disclosed in his affidavit.
Besides, itis to be considered that the statute, as construed by the California court, imposed upon the one in
possession seeking the establishment of an alleged title
the duty to make diligent inquiry to ascertain the names
of all claimants. Instead, therefore, of the statute amounting to the exertion of a purely unreasonable and arbitrary
power, its provisions leave no room for that contention.
On the contrary, we think the statute manifests the careful purpose of the legislature to provide every reasonable
safeguard for the protection of the rights of unknown
claimants and to give such notice as under the circumstances would be reasonably likely to bring the fact of
the pendency and the purpose of the proceeding to the
attention of those ipiterested. To argue that the provi-

AMERICAN LAND CO. v. ZEISS.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sions of the statute are repugnant to the due process
clause because a cse may be conceived where rights in
and to property would be adversely affected without
notice being actually conveyed by the proceedings is in
effect to deny the power of the State to deal with the
subject. The criterion is not the possibility of conceivable
injury but the just and reasonable character of the requirements, having reference to the subject with which
the statute deals. The doctrine on this subject was clearly
expressed by the Court of Appeals of New York in In re
Empi?-e City Bank, 18-N. Y. 199, 215, where, speaking of
the right of a State to prescribe in a suitable case for
constructive service, it was said:
"Various prudential regulations are made with respect
to these remedies, but it may possibly happen, notwithstanding all these precautions, that a citizen 'who owes
nothing, and has done none of the acts mentioned in the
statutes, may be deprived of his estate without any actual knowledge of. the process by which it has been taken
from him. If we hold, as we must, in order to sustain
this legislation, that the constitution does not positively
require personal notice in order to constitute a legal proceeding due process of law, it then belongs to the legislature to determine in the particular instance whether
the case calls for this kind of exceptional legislation and
what manner of constructive notice shall be sufficient to
reasonably apprise the party proceeded against of the legal
steps which are taken against him."
And in accordance with this view, the Supreme Court
of California, in the Kerrigan case, pointed out that the
statute furnished all the safeguards for which, in reason,
it could have been expected to provide consistently with
the condition dealt with. The court said (p. 312):
"V/here, as here, the summons describing the nature
of the action, the property involved, the name of the
plaintiff, and the reliqf, sought, is posted upon the prop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

erty, and is published in a newspaper for two months,
and a 'Us pendens' containing the same particulars is
recorded in the recorder's office and entered upon the
recorder's map of the property, we cannot doubt that,
so far as concerns the possible claimants who are not
known to the plaintiff, the notice prescribed by the act
is as complete and full as, from the nature of the case,
could reasonably be expected."
The case of Ballardv. Hunter, 204 U. S. 241, is instructive on this feature of the case. In that case a judgment
of the Circuit Court of Arkansas was affirmed which sustained the validity of a sale of lands for levee taxes. The
Arkansas statute authorized the proceedings which had
resulted in the sale, upon constructive publication against
non-residents and unknown owners. Lands of Josephine
Ballard were sold under the statutory proceeding, she
not having knowledge of the existence of the suit or of the
fact that the taxes had been assessed against her property.
In the course of the opinion the court, speaking through
Mr. Justice McKenna, said (p. 261):
"It s said, however, that Josephine Ballard was not
made a defendant in the suit, though the records of the
county showed that she was an owner thereof. But the
statute provided against such an omission. It provided
that the proceedings and judgment should be in the nature
of proceedings in rem, and that it should be immaterial
that the ownership of the lands might be incorrectly
alleged in the proceedings. We see'no want of due process in that requirement, or what was done under it. It
is manifest that any criticism of either is answered by the
cases we have cited. The proceedings were appropriate
to the nature of the case.
"It should be kept in mind that the laws of a State come
under the prohibition of the Fourteenth Amendment only
when they infringe fundamental rights. A law must be
framed and judged of in consideration of the practical

AMERICAN LAND CO. v. ZEISS.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

affairs of man. The law cannot give personal notice of
its provisions or proceedings to every one. It charges
every one with knowledge of its provisions; of its proceedings it must, at times, adopt some form of indirect
notice, and indirect notice is usually efficient notice when
the proceedings affect real estate. Of what concerns or
may concern their real estate, men usually keep informed,
and on that probability the law may frame its proceedings; indeed, must frame them, and assume the care of
property to be universal, if it would give efficiency to
many of its exercises. This was pointed out in Huling v.
Kaw Valley Railway & Improvement Company, 130 U. S.
559, where it was declared to be the 'duty of the owner
of real estate, who is a non-resident, to take measures that
in some way he shall be represented when his property is
called into requisition; and if he fails to give notice by the
ordinary publications which have been usually required
in such cases, it is his misfortune, and he must abide the
consequences.' It makes no difference, therefore, that
plaintiffs in error did not have personal notice of the suit
to collect the taxes on their lands or that taxes had been
leVied, or knowledge of the law under which the taxes had
been levied."
While we are of opinion that the views just stated
demonstrate the want of merit in the contention that the
statute, because of the insufficiency of its requirements,
was repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment, a consideration of a provision of the general law of California,
which by the construction of the Supreme Court of California is incorporated into the statute under consideration,
would lead to the same result. Thus, in the Hoffman Case,
151 California, 386, 393, the court said:
"In this connection it is proper to say that in determining whether or not due process of law is afforded, other
statutes applicable to the proceeding may be considered.
The provisions of ยง 473 of the Code of Civil Procedure

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

apply in such cases. Any person interested in the property and having no actual notice of the decree, may come
in at any time within a year after its rendition and by
showing that he has not been personally served with process and stating facts constituting a good defense to the
proceeding-that is, facts sufficient to show that he has
a valid adverse interest in the property-he may have
the decree vacated, as to him and be allowed to answer
to the merits."
The right conferred by ยง 473 of the code, it is to be observed, is an absolute right, although the section declares
that the court may impose "such terms as may be just."
Holiness Church v. Metropolitan Church Association (Cal.
App.), 107 Pac. Rep. 633; Gray v. Lawlor, 151 California,
352.
Under this construction it might well be held, if it were
necessary to do so, as establishing a rule of limitation which
it was in the power of the State to prescribe, in view of
the circumstances to which the limitation was made applicable. See Tyler v. Judges, 175 Massachusetts, 71,
and State v. Westfall, 85 Minnesota, 437. See also Illinois
cases concerning the power to fix a short period of limitation to meet a disaster like the one to which the statute in
question relates, collected in Gormley v. Clark, 134 U. S.
346, 347.
These views dispose of all the contentions concerning
the repugnancy of the statute to the Fourteenth Amendment which we think it necessary to separately consider.
In saying this we are not unmindful of a multitude of
subordinate propositions pressed in the voluminous brief
of counsel and which were all in effect urged upon the Supreme Court of California in the Kerrigan and Hoffman
cases and were in those cases adversely disposed of, and
which we also find to be without merit. Some of them
we briefly refer to. We do not think it is important to
determine the precise nature of the action authorized by

AMERICAN LAND CO. v. ZEISS.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the statute, since the method of procedure which was prescribed was within theslegislative competency. So, also,
we do not deem it important to discuss what constitutes
a judicial proceeding, since the statutory proceeding provided by the act was within the authority of the State to
enact, and that it was judicial in character has been expressly determined by the court of last resort of the State.
Indeed, not only these, but all the contentions proceed
upon a misconception as to the legislative authority of the
State and the effect thereon of the due process clause of the
Constitution of the United States. The error which all the
propositions involve was pointed out in Twining v. New
Jersey, 211 U. S. 78, where, speaking by Mr. Justice
Moody, the court said:
Due process requires that the court which assumes to
determine the rights of parties shall have jurisdiction
(citing cases) and that there shall be notice and opportunity for hearing given the parties, (citing cases). Subject to these two fundamental conditions, which seem to
be universally prescribed in all systems of law established
by civilized countries, this court has, up to this time; sustained, all state laws, statutory or judicially declared, regulating procedure, evidence and methods of trial, and held
them to be consistent with due process of law."
3. The adequacy of the proceedings pursued in the case
referred to in the certificate.
As there is no claim that fraud, actual or constructive,
was employed by Zeiss in obtaining the judgment complained of, and the proceedings conformed to the California statute, the considerations previously tated .entirely dispose of this question.
It follows that both of the questions certified must be
.answered in the negative.
And it .is
so ordered.

