OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

219 U. S.

maining land by the manner in which the part was taken,
and the use to which it was put, would be a travesty upon
justice.
Judgment affirmed.

ATLANTIC COAST LINE RAILROAD COMPANY v.
RIVERSIDE MILLS.
ERROR TO. THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

No. 215.

Argued October 19, 20, 1910.-Decided January 3, 1911.

A provision in a bill of lading issued by the initial carrier, that it should
not be liable for loss or damage not occurring on its portion of the
route, is not a contract of exemption from its own liability as a
carrier, but a provision of non-assumption of the liabilities of others
and at common law relieves it of such liabilities.
The general rule adopted by this court is that, in the absence of legislation, a carrier, unless there be a special contract, is only bound to
carry over its own line and then deliver to a connecting carrier; it
may, however, contract to carry beyond its line, and if it does so its
connnon-law carrier liability extends over the entire route.
It was not only the legal elements of the situation, but also the fact
that the business prosperity of. the country largely depends on
through rates and routes of transportation, that induced Congress
to enact such regulations in regard -to the duties and liabilities of
interstate carriers as would relieve shippers whose goods were
damaged from the burden of proving where the loss occurred.
There is no absolute freedom of contract. The Government may deny
liberty of contract by regulating or forbidding every contract reasonably calculated to injuriously affect public interests.
The United States is a Government of limited and delegated powers
but in respect to the powers delegated, including that to regulate
commerce between the States, 'the power is absolute except as
limited by other provisions of the Constitution.
Congress has power to prohibit a carrier engaged in interstate commerce from limiting by contract its liability beyond its own line,

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. RIVERSIDE MILLS. 187
219 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

and the Carmack amendment of January 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat.
584, 595, to § 20 of the Interstate Commerce Act, making such
carriers liable for loss or damage to merchandise received for interstate transportation beyond their own lines, notwithstanding any
contract of exemption in the bill of lading, is a valid exercise of such
power and is not in conflict with the due process provision of the
Fifth Amendment.
Quare, and not decided, whether a carrier can be compelled to accept
goods for transportation beyond its own lines or be required to make
a through or joint rate over independent lines.
Under the Carmack amendment to the Interstate Commerce Act, the
initial carrier is, as principal, liable not only for its own negligence,
but that of any agency which it may use, althpugh as between themselves the carrier actually causing the loss may be primarily liable.
Section 8 of the act to regulate commerce of February 4, 1887, c. 104,
24 Stat. 379, 382, does not authorize the taxing of an attorney's fee
in an action to recover damages for loss to goods which does not
result from a violation of the act.
168 Fed. Rep. 987 and 990, affirmed.
THIS was an action to recover the value of goods re-

ceived by the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad at a point
on its line in the State of Georgia for transportation to
points in other States. The agreed statement of facts
showed that the goods were safely delivered by the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad to connecting carriers, and
were lost while in the care of such carriers, and the question is whether the initial carrier is liable for such loss.
The stipulated facts showed that the goods were tendered to the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad and through
bills of lading demanded therefor, which were duly issued, as averred, on the dates named in the petition. That
the goods so received were forwarded over the lines of
the receiving road and in due course delivered to a connecting carrier engaged in interstate shipment for continuance of the transportation. It was also stipulated
"that the Riverside Mill made constant and frequent
shipments over the Atlantic Coast Line, and had a blank
form of receipt, like the attached, marked 'A,' which the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

219 U. S.

Riverside Mill filled out, showing what goods it had
loaded into cars and the name of the consignee; said receipt containing a stipulation that the shipment is 'per
conditions of the company's bill of lading,' and that the
Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Company, on said receipts
prepared by the Riverside Mill, issued, for each of the
shipments hereinbefore referred to, bills of lading on forms
like that attached, marked exhibit 'B.'
Upon the reverse side of the bill of lading were certain
conditions, one of which was that "No carrier shall be
liable for loss or damage not occurring on its portion of
the route." The tenth clause thereof was in these words:
"This bill of lading is signed for the different carriers
who may engage in the transportation, severally but not
jointly, each of which is to be bound by and have the
benefits of the provisions thereof, and in accepting this
bill of lading the shipper, owner and consignee of the
goods, and the holder of the bill of lading, agree to be
bound by all its stipulations, exceptions and conditions,.
whether printed or written."
The court below, upon this state of facts, instructed
a verdict for the plaintiff, upon-which there was judgment
for the amount of the verdict, and, upon motion of the
plaintiff, an attorney's fee of $100 was ordered to be
taxed as part of the costs in the case. Thereupon error
was assigned, and this writ of error sued out by the railroad company.
Mr. J. R. Lamar, for plaintiff in error in this case and
Mr. C. H. Moorman, with whom Mr. B. D. Warfield and

Mr. Henry L. Stone were on the brief, for plaintiff in
error in No. 286:1
The cases below hold that the statute is a great con-

venience to the shipper; is declaratory of the common law;
that the initial carrier at common law is liable beyond its
1See

post, p. 209.

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. RIVERSIDE MILLS. 189
219 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

line, and can be prohibited from limiting an existing liability beyond its line; that amendment becomes a part
of the contract, and as the goods are voluntarily accepted
for interstate shipment, they are therefore subject to interstate regulations of Congress; that contracts of exemption are rendered ineffectual by this statute, and that Congress has the same power to regulate commerce as it has
to regulate the relation of master and servant; that it is
an incident of the right to make through and joint rates.
Smeltzer Case, 158 S. W. Rep. 649; L. & N. R. R. Co. v.
Scott, 118 S. W. Rep. 992; Pittsburg Ry. Co. v. Mitchell,
91 N. E. Rep. 735; Galveston v. Piper,115 S. W. Rep. 108;
St. Louis v. Grayson, 115 S. W. Rep. 933; Greenwald v.
Weir, 115 N. Y. Supp. 311.
Plaintiff in error, however, claims that the act deprives
both the initial carrier and the shipper of the right to
make a just and reasonable contract which it could do at
common law. 1 Hutchinson on Carriers, 3d ed., 153, 233,
405; Cau v. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co.,'194 U. S. 424; Michigan Central v. Myrick, 107 U. S. 102. This is contrary
to the Fifth Amendment, Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S.
589; Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S. 45; Adair v. United
States, 208 U. S. 161, 174, as is also the provision that the
initial carrier "shall issue a bill of lading" and "shall be
liable to the holder of the bill of lading for any damage
caused by any connecting carrier. Attorney General v.
Old Colony R. R. Co., 22 L. R. A. 112; Norfolk R. R. Co.
v. Stuart Co., 63 S. E. Rep. 415; McCann v. Eddy (Mo.),
27 S. W. Rep. 541; Cooley's Const. Lim., 7th ed., 150;
Lindsey Co. v. Mullen, 176 U. S. 155, 143; Rodgers v.
Camp, 44 Connecticut, 297; Colon v. Lisk, 47 N. E. Rep.
(N. Y.) 333; Ohio &c. R. R. Co. v. Lacey, 78 Illinois, 55;
Knoxville R. R. Co. v: McMillan, 65 L. R. A. 296; Woodward v. Vermont Central R. R. Co., 62 N. E. Rep. 1051; 180
Massachusetts, 599; 217 U. S. 196, 205; Dirkin v. Kingston Coal Co., 171 Pa. St. 199, 203; S. C., 50 Am. St. Rep.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

219 U. S.

805; Williams v. Thaylor Co., 40 L. R. A. 812 (W. Va.);
Missouri R. R. Co. v. Nebraska, 164 U. S. 403; Same v.
Same, 217 U. S. 196.
Giving the initial carrier its day in court does not save
the statute, as no provision for hearing will support a
statute that takes the property of A to pay the debt of
B. Chicago &c. R. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 234; Long
Island Water Co. v. Brooklyn, 166 U. S. 695; Taylor v.
Porter, 4 Hill (N. Y.), 140.
The act does not even give the connecting carrier its
day in court. It is bound by the judgment without notice, and if it had notice, the connecting carrier is not estopped from showing that it was free from negligence.
Robins v. Chicago, 2 Black, 418; City of Boston v. Worthington, 10 Gray, 496; Lincoln v. First Nat. Bank, 60 L. R.
A. 924.
The act would make a connecting carrier in Canada
liable on shipment from New York to Detroit, though
manifestly the Canadian company is not subject to the
provisions of the Hepburn bill.
Even if the judgment against the initial carrier does
bind the connecting carrier, that could not satisfy the
requirement of the Constitution, for a subsequent and
contingent right to an action at law against corporations
or individuals of undefined responsibility is not the compensation which the Constitution requires. Bloodgood v.
Mohawk, 31 Am. Dec. 368; Haverhill v. Commissioners,
103 Massachusetts, 120; Stockyard Co. v. L. & N. R. R. Co.,
192 U. S. 568; Cherokee Nation v. Sou. Pac. R. R. Co., 135
U. S. 661.
The statute is not a valid exercise of the power to regulate commerce. Citizens have the right to engage in
interstate commerce. Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 57.
They- are not obliged to yield to an unconstitutional statute as condition precedent to so doing. Nor can Congress
treat the right as a privilege not to be availed of except

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. RIVERSIDE MILLS. 191
219 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

upon such conditions it may prescribe, if the conditions
are otherwise beyond the power of Congress. Employers'
Liability Case, 207 U. S. 502; Adair Case, 208 U. S. 180.
The grant to the National Government under the commerce clause is subject to the limitations of the Fifth
Amendment. Monongahela Bridge Co. v. United States,
148 U. S. 345.
The power to regulate commerce includes the power
to facilitate and expedite transportation of goods, but
does not authorize the prohibition of the reasonable and
just contracts under which commerce has been developed,
and which do not, and are not intended to, impede commerce. RailroadCo. v. Richmond, 19 Wall. 589, 590; Central Ry. Co. v. Murphy, 196 U. S. 204, 205; Lottery Case,
188 U. S. 362.
The statute contains provisions which are not valid
regulations of interstate commerce. The initial carrier
cannot be made liable on the theory that Congress has
power to make through and joint rates. For the making
of through and joint rates is essentially contractual. Star
Co. v. Atchison R. R. Co., 14 I. C. C. 354; Kentucky Bridge
Co. v. L. & N. R. R. Co., 37 Fed. Rep. 630; and the courts
have never decided to what extent the carrier can be required to make through and joint rates. Sou. Pac. R. R.
Co. v. I. C. C., 200 U. S. 553; Atchison Ry. Co. v. Denver
&c. Ry. Co., 110 U. S. 680; Cole v. Central, 86 Georgia,
255; Burlington Ry. Co. v. Dcy, 82 Iowa, 312; S. C., 31 Am.
St. Rep. 490, 499; Jacobson v. Wisconsin,.70 Am. St. Rep.
364; 179 U. S. 292; CentralStockyards v. L. & N. R. R. Co.,
192 U. S. 571; Chicago &c. Ry. Co. v. Osborne, 52 Fed. Rep.
915; Int. Com. Com. v. Stickney, 215 U. S. 98, 106; Penn
Ref. Co. v. Western &c. R. R. Co., 208 U. S. 208, 222,
Limited liability acts of Congress, whether passed in
pursuance of the admiralty jurisdiction or the commerce
clause, or both, were primarily intended to prevent the
,making of unreasonable stipulations in bills of lading

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

219 U. S.

(The Delaware, 161 U. S. 472), and at most only related
to the liability of owners for their own negligence, and
did not make them or the vessel liable for injuries occasioned by the neglij ence of another vessel by which
the goods might be forwarded.
The initial carrier is not liable on the ground stated in
the Smeltzer Case, 158 Fed. Rep. 661, that the act became
a part of the contract, for if the act is void, it imposes
no duties, and is as though it had never been passed.
Norton v. Shelby County, 118 U. S. 426; Cleveland v. Clemmons, 59 L. R. A. 775; People ex rel. Rodgers v. Koler,
166 N. Y. 1; S. C., 52 ] . R. A. 814..
Nor has the company voluntarily made itself liable;
Lake Shore Ry. Co. v. Smith, 173 U. S. 697.
The contract under which the goods were received is
an entirety. Part of it cannot be laid hold of to acquire
interstate jurisdiction, and the balance ignored, whereby
interstate relation is stipulated to cease in law, when it
ceases in fact by delivery to the next carrier. McCarn v.
InternationalCo., 19 S. W. Rep. 549; Hartley v. St. Louis
Co., 89 N. W. Rep. 88; Railroad Co. v. Richmond, 19 Wall.
589; Michigan Central R' R. Co. v. Myrik, 107 U. S.
110.
The statute imposes mandatory requirements instead
of permissive provisions at common law, and the Missouri statute in part copied by the Carmack amendment
was sustained because the provisions were not mandatory.
Missouri Ry. Co. v. McCann, 174 U. S. 580.
The provision as to attorney's fees under § 8, also takes
property without due process of law. Gulf &c. R. R. Co.
v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150, 160.
Mr. John Maynard Harlan and Mr. Lewis W. McCandless, by leave of the court, filed a brief attacking
the constitutionality of certain portions of § 20 of the
act to regulate commerce..

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. RIVERSIDE MILLS. 193
219 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Mr. R. J. Southall, with whom Mr. Charles Akerman
and Mr. Alexander Akerman were on the brief, for defendant in error; submitted:
The mischief sought to be remedied by the statute was
the trouble, delay, and expense to the shipper in collecting claims for loss or damage by the carriers. Cent. of Ga.
Ry. Co. v. Murphey, 196 U. S. 194.
The constitution gives Congress full power to regulate
ihterstate commerce. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 196;
Howard v. Ill. Cent. R. R. Co., 207 U. S. 463; Smeltzer v.
St. Louis & S. F. R. R. Co., 158 Fed. Rep. 649; Lottery
Case, 188 U. S. 321.
Section 20 of the Hepburn bill (Carmack amendment)
was only intended to compel the carriers to return to the
common-law rule which made the initial carriers liable, in
the absence of contract limiting the carrier to liability
for loss occurring on its own line, and to prohibit such
contracts as being contrary to the declared public policy
of the United States. A., T. & S. F. R. R. Co. v. D. & N.
0. R. R. Co., 110 U. S. 688; Southern Pacific Co. v. Crenshaw, 5 Ga. App. 675; S. C., 63 S.E. Rep. 865; Smeltzer
v. St. Louis & S. F. R. R. Co., 158 Fed. Rep. 649.
The liberty of contract guaranteed by the Constitution is subject to such reasonable restraints as may be
imposed by Congress for the public good and general
welfare. Adair v. United States, 208 U. S. 161; Uniied
States v. Traffic Association, 171 U. S.571; United States
v. Trans-Missouri Assn., 166 U. S. 290; Addyston Pipe &
Steel Co. v. United States, 175 U. S. 211; Northern Sccurities Co. v. United States, 193 U. S.197; Swift & Co. v.
United States, 196 U. S.375.
Railroad companies are subject to legislative control
for the protection of the public. N. Y. & N. E R. R. Co.
v. Bristol, 151 U. S.556; Nashville, C. & St. L. R. R. Co.
v. Alabama, 128 U. S.96; Georgia R. & Bkg. Co. v. Smith,
128 U. S. 174; Minneapolis & St. L. R. R. Co. v. BeckvoL. ccxIx-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

with, 129 U. S. 26; Dent v. West Virginia, 129 U. S. 114;
Charlotte,C. & S. R. R. Co. v. Gibbes, 142 U. S.386; Minneapolis & St. L. R. R. Co. v. Emmons, 149 U. S. 364.
Congress may fix a new rule of civil liability in matters
of interstate commerce. Act of March 2, 1893, 27 Stat.
531; Johnson v. Sou. Pac. Co., 196 U. S. 1.
As to the power of Congress to regulate the liability of
carriers and others engaged in interstate commerce for
injury to person or property,. see. Sherlock v. Ailing, 93
U. S 99; Missouri R. R. Co. v. Mackey, 127 U. S. 205;
Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Baugh, 149 U. S. 368;
Chicago, M. & St. P.R. R. Co. v. Solan, 169 U. S. 133;
Martin v. Pittsburg & L. E. R. R. Co., 203 U. S. 284.
It is for Congress to determine what public policy requires with respect to common carriers engaged in interstate commerce. United States v. Joint Traffic Assn., 171
U. S.569, 571; MissouriR. R. Co. v. Mackey, 127 U. S.205.
The allowance of attorneys' fees was proper. Seaboard
Air Line v. Seegers, 207 U. S. 73; Montague & Co. v.
Lowry, 193 U. S. 38.
Mr. Win. S. Kenyon, Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom The Attorney General was on the brief,
by leave of the court for the United States, as amicus
curia,in support of the constitutionality of § 20 of the act
of June, 1906.
After making the above statement, MR.JUSTICE LuRdelivered the opinion-of the court.

TON

The goods of the defendants in error were lost by a
connecting carrier to whom they had been safely delivered. Though received for a point beyond its own line
and for a point on the line of a succeeding carrier, there
was no agreement for their safe carriage beyond the line
of the plaintiff in error, but, upon the contrary, an express

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. RIVERSIDE MILLS. 195
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

agreement that the initial carrier should not be liable for
"a loss or damage not occurring on its own portion of the
route." Such a provision is not a contract for exemption
from a carrier's liability as such, but a provision making
plain that it did not assume the obligation of a carrier
beyond its own line, and that each succeeding carrier in
the route was but the agent of the shipper for a continuance of the transportation. It is therefore obvious that
at the ommon law an initial carrier under such a state
of facts would not be liable for a loss through the fault
of a connecting carrier to whom it had, in due course,
safely delivered the goods for further transportation.
Railroad v. Pratt, 22 Wall. 123; Myricc v. Railroad, 107
U. S. 102; Southern Pac. Ry. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 200 U. S. 536, 554. Liability is confessedly
dependent upon the provision of the act of Congress regulating commerce between the States known as the Carmack amendment of January 29, 1906, c. 3591, § 7, 34
Stat. at, Large, 584, 595. The twentieth section of the
act of February 4, 1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. at Large, 379,
as changed by the Carmack amendment, reads as follows:
"That any common carrier, railroad, or transportation
company receiving property for transportation from a
point in one State to a point in another State shall issue
a receipt or bill of lading therefor, and shall be liable to
the lawful holder thereof for any loss, damage, or injury
to such property caused by it or by any common carrier,
railroad or transportation company to which such property may be delivered or over, whose line or lines such
property may pass, and no contract, receipt, rule or regulation shall exempt such common carrier, railroad, or
transportation company from the liability hereby imposed. Provided, That nothing in this section shall deprive any holder of such receipt or bill of lading of any
remedy or right of action which he has under existing
law.

196

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

"That the common carrier, railroad, or transportation
company issuing such receipt or bill of lading shall be
entitled to recover from the common carrier, railroad, or
transportation company on whose line the loss, damage
or injury shall have been sustained the amount of such
loss, damage, or injury as it may be required to pay to
the owners of such property, as may be evidenced by any
receipt, judgment, or transcript thereof."
The power of Congress to enact this legislation has
been denied, first, because it is said to deprive the carrier
and the shipper of their common-law power to make a
just and reasonable contract in respect to goods to be
carried to points beyond the line of the interstate carrier; and, second, that in casting liability upon the initial
carrier for loss or damage upon the line of a connecting
carrier the former is deprived of its property without

due process of law.
The indisputable effect of the Carmack amendment is
to hold the initial carrier engaged in interstate commerce.
and "receiving property for transportation from a point
in one State to a point in another State" as having contracted for through carriage to the point of destination,
using the lines of connecting carriers as its agents
Independently of the Carmack amendment the carrier,
when tendered property for such transportation, might
elect to contract to carry to destination, in which case
it necessarily agreed to do so through the agency of other
and independent carriers in the line; or, it might elect
to carry safely over its own lines only and then deliver
to the next carrier, who would then become the agent of
the shipper. In the first case the receiving carrier's liability, as carrier, extends over the whole route, for, on
obvious grounds, the principal is liable for the acts of its
agent. In the other case its carrier liability ends at its
own terminal, and its further liability is merely that of a
forwarder.

Having this power to make the one or the

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. RIVERSIDE MILLS. 197
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

other contract, the only question which has occasioned
a conflict in the decided cases was whether it, in the particular case, made the one or the other.
The general doctrine accepted by this court, in the
absence of legislation, is, that a carrier, unless there be a
special contract, is only bound to carry over its own line
and then deliver toca connecting carrier. That such an
initial carrier might contract to carry over the whole
route was never doubted. It is equally indisputable that
if it does so contract, its common-law carrier liability
will extend over the entire route. Railway v. McCarthy,
96 U. S. 258, 266; Railroad v. Pratt, 22 Wall. 123; Railroad v. American Trading Co., 195 U. S. 439; Muschamp v.
Lancaster Railway Co., 8 M. & W. 421.
The English cases beginning with Muschamp v. Lancaster Railway Company, 8 M. & W. 421, decided in 1841,
down to Bristol &c. Railway v. Collins, 7 H. L. Cases, 194,
have consistently held that the mere receipt of property
for transportation to a point beyond the line of the receiving carrier, without any qualifying agreement, justified an inference of an agreement for through transportation and an assumption of full carrier liability by the
primary carrier. The ruling is grounded upon considerations of public policy and public convenience, and classes
the receipt of goods so designated for a point beyond ihe
carrier line as a holding out. to the public that the carrier
has made its own arrangements for the continuance by
a connecting carrier of the transportation after the goods
leave its own line. There are American cases which take
the same view of the question of evidence thus j resented.
Some of them are Railroad v. Campbell, 7 Heisk. (Tenn.)
257; Railroad v. Mt. Vernon Co., 84 Alabama, 175; Railroad v. Hasselkus, 91 Georgia, 384; Beard v. Railroad, 79
Iowa, 531; Kyle v. Railroad, 10 Rich. (S. C.) 382; Railroad v. Wilcox, 84 Illinois, 240; Railroadv. Rogers & Hartsell, 6 Heisk. (Tenn.) 143.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

Upon the other hand, many American courts have repudiated the English rule which holds the carrier to a
contract for transportation over the whole route, in the
absence of a contract clearly otherwise, and have adopted
the rule that unless the carrier specifically agrees to carry
over the whole route its responsibility, as a carrier, ends
with its own line, and that for the continuance of the
shipment its liability is only that of a forwarder. The
conflict has, therefore, been one as to the evidence from
which a contract for through carriage to a 'place beyond
the line of the receiving carrier might be inferred.
In this conflicting condition of the decisions as to the
circumstances from which an agreement for through
transportation of property designated to a point beyond
the receiving carrier's line might be inferred, Congress
by the act here involved has declared, in substance, that
the act of receiving property for transportation to a point
in another State and beyond the line of the receiving
carrier shall impose on such receiving carrier the obligation of through transportation with carrier liability
throughout. But this uncertainty of the nature and extent of the liability of a -carier receiving goods destined
to a point beyond its own line was not all which might
well induce the interposition of the regulating power of
Congress. Nothing has perhaps contributed more to the
wealth and prosperity of the country than the almost universal practice of transportation companies to co6perate
in making through routes and joint rates: Through this
method a situation has been brought about by which,
though independently managed, connecting carriers become in effect one systeh. This practice has its origin in
the .mutual interests of such companies and in the necessities of an expanding commerce.
In the leading case of Muschamp v. Lancaster Railway
Company, cited above, Lord Abinger defended the inference
of a contract for through carriage from the mere
I

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. RIVERSIDE MILLS. 199
219 U. S.

Orinion of the Court.

receipt ofa package destined to a point beyond the line
of the receiving carrier upon the known practice in his
day of such carriers. Upon this subject, in speaking of
connecting lines of railway, he said; "These railway companies, though separate in themselves, are in the habit,
for their own advantage, of making contracts, of which
this was one, to convey goods along the whole line, to the
ultimake terminus, each of them being agents of the other
to carry them forward, and each receiving their share of
the profits from the last."
The tenth clause of the conditions annexed to this bill
of lading, and shown elsewhere, affords a fair illustration
of the customary methods of connecting carriers to cooperate for their mutual benefit in carrying on transportation begun by one which must be continued by other
lines over which the thing to be transported must go.
The receiving carrier makes the fate and the route, and
as the agent of every such connecting carrier executes a
contract which is to bind each of them, "severally, but
not jointly," one of the terms of the agreement being that
each carrier shall be liable only for loss or damage occurring on its own line. Through this well known and
necessary practice of connecting carriers there has come
about, without unity of ownership or physical operation,
a singleness of charge and a continuity of transportation
greatly to the advantage of.the carrier and beneficial to
the great and growing commerce of the country.
Along with this singleness of rate and continuity of
carriage there grew up the practice by receiving carriers,
illustrated in this'case, of refusing to make a specific
agreement to transport to points beyond its own line,
whereby the connecting carrier for the purpose of carriage
would become the agent of the primary carrier. The
common form of receipt, as the court may judicially
know, is one by which the shipper is compelled to make
with each carrier in the route over 'which his package

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

must go a separate agreement limiting the carrier liability of each separate company to its own part of the
through route. As a result the shipper could look only
to the initial carrier for recompense for loss, damage or
delay occurring on its part of the route. If such primary
carrier was able to show a delivery to the rails of the next
succeeding carrier, although the packages might and
usually did continue the journey in the same car in which
they had been originally loaded, the shipper must fail
in his suit. He might, it is true, then bring his action
against the carrier so shown to have next received the
shipment. But here, in turn he might be met by proof
of safe delivery to a third separate carrier. In short, as
the shipper was not himself in possession of the information as to when and where his property had been lost or
damaged and had no access to the records of the connecting carriers who in turn had participated in some part of
the transportation, he was compelled in many instances
to make such settlement as should be proposed.
This burdensome situation of the shipping public in reference to interstate shipments over routes including separate lines of carriers was the matter which Congress undertook to regulate. Thus when this Carmack amendment
was reported by a conference committee, Judge William
Richardson, a Congressman from Alabama, speaking for
the committee of the matter which it was sought to remedy, among other things, said:
"One of the great complaints of the railroads has been
-and, I think, a reasonable, just and fair complaintthat when a man made a shipment, say, from Washington, for instance, to San Francisco, Cal., and his shipment was lost in some way, the citizen had to go thousands
of miles, probably, to institute his suit. The result was
that he had to settle his damages at what he could get.
What have we done? We have made the initial carrier,
the carrier that takes and receives the shipment, respon-

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. RIVERSIDE MILLS. 201
219

U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sible for the loss of the article in the way of damages.
We save the shipper from going to California or some
distant place to institute his suit. Why? The reasons
for inducing us to do that were that the initial carrier has
a through route connection with the secondary carrier,
on whose route the loss occurred, and a settlement between them will be an easy matter, while the shipper
would be at heavy expense in the institution of a suit. If
a judgment is obtained against the initial carrier, no
doubt exists but that the secondary carrier would pay
it at once. Why? Because the arrangement, the concert, the co6peration, the through route courtesies between them would be broken up if prompt payment were
not made. We have done that in conference." (Cong.
Rec. Pt. 10, p. 9580.)
It must be conceded that the effect of the act in respect
of carriers receiving packages in one State for a point in
another and beyond its own lines, is to deny to such an
initial carrier the former right to make a contract limiting liability to its own line. This it is said is a denial
of the liberty of contract secured by the Fifth Amendment
to the Constitution. To support this counsel cite such
cases as Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 589; Lochner v.
New York, 198 U. S. 45, and Adair v. United States, 208
U. S. 161.
This power to regulate is the right to prescribe the
rules under which such commerce may be conducted.
"It is," said Chief Justice Marshall, in Gibbons v. Ogden,
9 Wheat. 1, 197, "a power vested in Congress as absolutely as it would be in a single government having in its
constitution the same restrictions on the exercise of the
power as are found in the Constitution of the United
States." It is a power which extends to the regulation
of the appliances and machinery and agencies by which
such commerce is conducted. Thus in Johnson v. Southern Pac. Ry., 196 U. S. 1, an act prescribing safety ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

pliances was upheld. And in Interstate Commerce Commission v. Illinois Central R. R. Co., 215 U. S. 452, it was
held that the equipment of an interstate railway, including cars used for the transportation of its own fuel, was
subject to the regulation of Congress. In Interstate Commerce Commission v. C. & A. Ry. Co., 215 U. S. 479, it
was held to extend .to the distribution of coal cars to the
shipper, so as to prevent discrimination. In The Employers' Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463, 495, power to pass an
act which regulated the relation of master and servant,
so as to impose on the carrier, while engaged in interstate
commerce, liability for the negligence of a fellow-servant,
for which at common law there was no liability, and depriving such carrier of the common-law defense of. contributory negligence save by way of reduction of damages,
was upheld. In Addyston Pipe Co. v. United States, 175

U. S. 211, and Northern Securities Co. v. United States,
193 U. S. 197, it was held that this power of regulation
extended to and embraced contracts in restraint of trade
between the States.
It is obvious, from the many decisions of this court,
that there is no such thing as absolute freedom of contract. Contracts which contravene public policy cannot
be lawfully made at all, and the power to make contracts
rfiay in all cases be regulated as to form, evidence, and
validity as to) third persons. The power of government
extends to the denial of liberty of contract to the extent
of forbidding or regulating every contract which is reasonably calculated to injuriously affect the public interests.
Undoubtedly the United States is a government of limited and delegated powers, but in respect of those powers
which have been expressly delegated, the power to regulate commerce between the States being one of them,
the power isabsolute except as limited by other provisions
of the Constitution itself.
Having the express power to nake rules for the con-

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. RIVERSIDE MILLS. 203
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

duct of commerce among the States, the range of Congressional discretion as to the regulation best adapted to
remedy a practice found inefficient or hurtful, is a wide
one. If the regulating act be-one directly applicable to
such commerce, not obnoxious to any other provision
of the Constitution, and reasonably adapted to the purpose by reason of legitimate relation between such commerce and the rule provided, the question of power is
foreclosed. "The test of power," said Mr. Justice White,
speaking for this court in the Employers' Liability Cases,
cited above, "is not merely the matter regulated, but
whether the regulation is directly one of interstate commerce, or is embraced within the grant conferred on Congress to use all lawful means necessary and appropriate
to the execution of the power to regulate commerce."
•That a situation had come about which demanded Pegulation in the public interest was the judgment of Congress. The requirement that carriers who undertook to
engage in interstate transportation, and as a part of that
business held themselves out. as receiving packages destined to places beyond their own terminal, should be
required as a condition of continuing in that traffic to obligate themselves to carry to the point of destination, using the lines of connecting carriers as their own agencies,
was not beyond the scope of the power of regulation.
The rule is adapted to secure the rights of the shipper by
securing unity of transportation with unity of responsibility. The regulation is one which also facilitates the
remedy of one who sustains a loss, by localizing the responsible carrier. Neither does the regulation impose an
unreasonable burden upon the receiving' carrier. The
methods in vogue, as the court may judicially know, embrace not only the voluntary arrangement of through
routes and rates, but the collection of the single charge
made by the carrier at one or the other end of the route.
This involves frequent and prompt settlement of traffic

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

balances. The routing in a measure depends upon the
certainty and promptness of such traffic balance settlements, and such balances have been regarded as debts
of a preferred character when there is a receivership.
Again, the business association of such carriers affords
to each facilities for locating primary responsibility as
between themselves which the shipper cannot have.
These well-known conditions afford a reasonable security
to the receiving carrier for a reimbursement of a carrier
liability which should fall upon one of the connecting
carriers as between themselves.
But, it is said, that any security resulting from a voluntary agreement constituting a through route and rate is
destroyed if the receiving carrier is not at liberty to select his own agencies for a continuance of the transportation beyond his own line. This is an objection which
has no application to the present case. This action was
for loss and damage arising from several distinct shipments to different places beyond the line of the plaintiff
in error who was the initial or receiving carrier. The presumption from the absence of anything to the contrary
in the record is that the routing was over connecting
lines with whom the plaintiff in error had theretofore
made its own arrangements and rate. This record presents no question as to the right of the initial carrier to
refuse a shipment designated for a point beyond its own
line, nor its right to refuse to make a through route or
joint rate when such route and rate would involve the
continuance of a transportation over independent lines.
We, therefore, refrain from any consideration of the large
question thus suggested. The shipments involved in the
present case were voluntarily received by an initial carrier who undertook to escape carrier's liability beyondits own line by a provision limiting liability to loss
upon its own line. This was forbidden by the Carmack
amendment and any. stipulation and condition in the

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. RIVERSIDE MILLS. 205
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

special receipt which contravenes the rule in question is
invalid.
Reduced to the final results, the Congress has said that
a receiving carrier, in spite of any stipulation to the contrary, shall be deemed, when it receives property in one
State to be transported to a point in another involving
the use of a connecting carrier for some part of the way,
to have adopted such other carrier as its agent, and to
incur carrier liability throughout the entire route, with
the right to reimbursement for a loss not due to his own
negligence. The conditions which justified this extension of carrier liability we have already adverted to.
The rule of the common law which treated a common
carrier as an insurer grew out of a situation which required that kind of security for the protection of the
public. To quote the quaint but expressive words of
Lord Holt, in Coggs v. Bernard, 2 Ld. Raymond, C09,
when defending and appying the doctrine of absolute
liability against loss not due to the act of God or the public enemy, "this rule," said he, "is a politick establishment contrived by the policy of the law for the safety
of all persons, the necessity of whose affairs oblige them
to trust these sort of persons that they may be safe in
their ways of dealing."
If it is to be assumed that the ultimate power exerted
by Congress is that of compelling cooperation by connecting lines of independent carriers for purposes of interstate
transportation, the power is still not beyond the regulating power of Congress, 'since without merging identity
of separate lines or operation it stops with the requirement of oneness of charge, continuity of transportation
and primary liability of the receiving carrier to the shipper, with the right of reimbursement from the guilty
agency in the route. That there is some chance that this
right of recoupment may not be always effective may be
conceded without invalidating the regulation. If the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

power existed and the regulation is adapted to the purpose in view, the public advantage justifies the discretion
exercised and upholds the legislation as within the limit
of the grant conferred upon Congress. Touching the
range of legislative discretion of the States in respect to
occupations or trades which are affected by a public use,
this court, in Gundling v. Chicago, 177 U. S. 183, 188, said:
"Unless the regulations are so utterly unreasonable and
extravagant in their nature and purpose that the property and personal rights of the citizen are unnecessarily,
and in a manner wholly arbitrary, interfered with or destroyed without due process of law, they do not extend,
beyond the power of the State to pass, and they form no
subject for Federal interference. As stated in Crowley v.
Christensen, 137 U. S. 86, 'the possession and enjoyment
of all rights are subject to such reasonable conditions as
may be deemed by the governing authority of the country essential to the safety, health, peace, good order and
morals of the community.' "
But it is said that the act violates the Fifth Amendment by taking the property of the initial carrier to pay
the debt of an independent connecting carrier whose negligence may have been the sole cause of the loss. But
this contention results from a burface reading of the act
and misses the true basis upon which it rests. The liability of the receiving carrier which results in such a case
is that of a principal for the negligence of his own agents.
In, substance Congress has said to such carriers, "If
you receive articles for transportation from a point in
one State to a place in another, beyond your own terminal, you must do so under a contract to transport to
the place designated. If you are bbliged to use the services of independent carriers in the continuance of the
transit, you must use them as your own agents and not
as agents of the shipper." It is, therefore, not the case
of making one pay the debt of another. The receiving

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. RIVERSIDE MILLS. 207
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

carrier is, as principal, liable not only for its own negligence, but for that of any agency it may use, although,
as between themselves, the company actually causing
the loss may be primarily liable
In Seaboard Air Line v. Seegers, 207 U. S. 73, 78, legislation by -the State of Georgia imposing a penalty on
common carriers for failure to adjust damage claims
withinforty days was beld to neither deny due process
nor the equal protection of the law. Speaking by Mr.
Justice Brewer, the court said of the reasonableness of
the requirement and classification, that "the matter to
be adjusted is one peculiarly within the knowledge of the
carrier. It receives the goods and has them in its custody
until the carriage is completed. It knows what it received and what it delivered. It knows what injury was
done during the shipment and how it was done. The
consignee may not know what was in fact delivered at
the time of the shipment, and the shipper may not know
what was delivered to the consignee at the close of the
transportation. The carrier can determine the amount
of the loss more accurately and promptly and with less
delay and expense than anyone else, and for the adjustment of loss or damage to shipments within the State
forty days cannot be said to be an unreasonably short
length of time."
The conclusion we reach in respect to the validity of
the amendment has the support of some well-considered
cases. Among them we cite: Smeltzer v. Railroad, 158
Fed. Rep. 649; Railroad v. Mitchell, 91 N. E. Rep. 735;
Railroad v. Scott, 118 S. W. Rep. 992.
The judgment included an attorney's fee taxed as part
of the costs. The authority for this is supposed to be
found in the eighth section of the act to regulate commerce of February 4, 1887, chap. 104, § 8 (24 Stat. at
Large, p. 379, 382). The section reads as follows:
"That in case any common carrier subject to the pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

visions of this act shall do, cause to be done, or permit
to be done any act, matter, or thing in this act prohibited
or declared to be unlawful, or shall omit to do any act,
matter, or thing in this act required to be done, such
common carrier shall be liable to the person or persons
injured thereby for the full amount of damages sustained
in consequence of any such violation of the provisions
of this act, together with a reasonable counsel or attorney's fee, to be fixed by the court in every case of recovery, which attorney's fee shall be taxed and collected
as part of the costs of the case."
But that section applies to cases where the cause of
action is the doing of something made unlawful by some
provision of the act, or the omission to do something required by the act, and there is a recovery "of damages
sustained in consequence of any such violation of this
act," etc. The cause of action in the present case is not
for damages resulting from "any violation of the provisions of this act." True, the plaintiff in error attempted
by contract to stipulate for a limitation of liability to a
loss on its own line, and in this action has defensively denied liability for a loss not occurring on its own line. But
the cause of action was the loss of the plaintiff's property
which had been entrusted to it as a common carrier, and
that loss is in no way traceable to the violation of any
provision of the act to regulate commerce. Having sustained no damage which was a consequence of the violation of the act, the section has no application to this
case.
The judgment was erroneous to this extent, and the
provision for an attorney's fee is stricken out, and the
judgment thus modified is
Affirmed.

