OCTOBER TERM, 1999

Syllabus

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR, WARDEN
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FOURTH CIRCUIT
No. 98-8384.

Argued October 4, 1999-Decided April 18, 2000

A Virginia jury convicted petitioner Williams of robbery and capital
murder, and, after a sentencing hearing, found a probability of future
dangerousness and unanimously fixed his punishment at death. Concluding that such punishment was "proper" and "just," the trial judge
imposed the death sentence. The Virginia Supreme Court affirmed.
In state habeas corpus proceedings, the same trial judge found, on the
evidence adduced after hearings, that Williams' conviction was valid,
but that his counsel's failure to discover and present significant mitigating evidence violated his right to the effective assistance of counsel
under Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668. In rejecting the trial
judge's recommendation that Williams be resentenced, the State Supreme Court held, inter alia,that the trial judge had failed to recognize
that Strickland had been modified by Lockhart v. Fretwell, 506 U. S.
364, 369, and that Williams had not suffered sufficient prejudice to warrant relief. In habeas corpus proceedings under 28 U. S. C. §2254, the
federal trial judge agreed with the state trial judge that the death
sentence was constitutionally infirm on ineffective-assistance grounds.
The federal judge identified five categories of mitigating evidence that
counsel had failed to introduce and rejected the argument that such
failure had been a strategic decision to rely primarily on the fact that
Williams had confessed voluntarily. As to prejudice, the judge determined, among other things, that there was a reasonable probability that,
but for counsel's unprofessional errors, the result of the proceeding
would have been different, see Strickland, 466 U. S., at 694. Applying
an amended version of §2254(d)(1) enacted in the Antiterrorism and
Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996 (AEDPA), the judge concluded that
the Virginia Supreme Court's decision "was contrary to, or involved an
unreasonable application of, clearly established Federal law, as determined by the Supreme Court of the United States." The Fourth Circuit reversed, construing §2254(d)(1) to prohibit federal habeas relief
unless the state court had interpreted or applied the relevant precedent
in a manner that reasonable jurists would all agree is unreasonable.
The court declared that it could not say that the Virginia Supreme
Court's decision on prejudice was an unreasonable application of the
Strickland or Lockhart standards established by the Supreme Court.

Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)
Syllabus
Held: The judgment is reversed, and the case is remanded.
163 F. 3d 860, reversed and remanded.
JUSTICE STEVENS delivered the opinion of the Court as to Parts I,
III, and IV, concluding that Williams was denied his constitutionally
guaranteed right to the effective assistance of counsel, as defined in
Strickland, when his trial lawyers failed to investigate and to present
substantial mitigating evidence to the sentencing jury. Pp. 390-398.
(a) The threshold question under AEDPA-whether Williams seeks
to apply a rule of law that was clearly established at the time his statecourt conviction became final-is easily answered because the merits of
his claim are squarely governed by Strickland. To establish ineffective
assistance of counsel, the defendant must prove: (1) that counsel's performance fell below an objective standard of reasonableness, 466 U. S.,
at 688; and (2) that the deficient performance prejudiced the defense,
which requires a showing that there is a reasonable probability that,
but for counsel's unprofessional errors, the result of the proceeding
would have been different, id., at 694. Because the Strickland test
qualifies as "clearly established Federal law, as determined by the
Supreme Court," this Court's precedent "dictated" that the Virginia
Supreme Court apply that test in entertaining Williams' ineffectiveassistance claim. See Teague v. Lane, 489 U. S. 288, 301. Pp. 390-391.
(b) Williams is entitled to relief because the Virginia Supreme Court's
decision rejecting his ineffective-assistance claim both is "contrary to,
[and] involved an unreasonable application of, clearly established Federal law." Strickland provides sufficient guidance for resolving virtually all ineffective-assistance claims, and the Virginia Supreme Court
erred in holding that Lockhart modified or in some way supplanted
Strickland. Although there are a few situations in which the overriding focus on fundamental fairness may affect the analysis, see Strickland, 466 U. S., at 692, cases such as Lockhart and Nix v. Whiteside,
475 U. S. 157, do not justify a departure from a straightforward application of Strickland when counsel's ineffectiveness deprives the defendant
of a substantive or procedural right to which the law entitles him.
Here, Williams had a constitutionally protected right to provide mitigating evidence that his trial counsel either failed to discover or failed to
offer. Moreover, the Virginia trial judge correctly applied both components of the Strickland standard to Williams' claim. The record establishes that counsel failed to prepare for sentencing until a week beforehand, to uncover extensive records graphically describing Williams'
nightmarish childhood, to introduce available evidence that Williams
was "borderline mentally retarded" and did not advance beyond sixth
grade, to seek prison records recording Williams' commendations for

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR
Syllabus
helping to crack a prison drug ring and for returning a guard's missing
wallet, and to discover the testimony of prison officials who described
Williams as among the inmates least likely to act violently, dangerously,
or provocatively, and of a prison minister that Williams seemed to thrive
in a more regimented environment. Although not all of the additional
evidence was favorable to Williams, the failure to introduce the comparatively voluminous amount of favorable evidence was not justified by a
tactical decision and clearly demonstrates that counsel did not fulfill
their ethical obligation to conduct a thorough investigation of Williams'
background. Moreover, counsel's unprofessional service prejudiced
Williams within Strickland's meaning. The Virginia Supreme Court's
prejudice analysis was unreasonable in at least two respects: (1) It was
not only "contrary to," but also-inasmuch as it relied on the inapplicable Lockhart exception-an "unreasonable application of," the clear law
as established in Strickland;and (2) it failed to evaluate the totality of,
and to accord appropriate weight to, the available mitigation evidence.
Pp. 391-398.
JUSTICE O'CONNOR delivered the opinion of the Court as to Part II
(except as to the footnote), concluding that §2254(d)(1) places a new
constraint on the power of a federal habeas court to grant relief to a
state prisoner with respect to claims adjudicated on the merits in state
court: The habeas writ may issue only if the state-court adjudication (1)
"was contrary to," or (2) "involved an unreasonable application of..
clearly established Federal law, as determined by the Supreme Court of
the United States." Pp. 402-413.
(a) Because Williams filed his petition in 1997, his case is not governed by the pre-1996 version of the federal habeas statute, but by the
statute as amended by AEDPA. Accordingly, for Williams to obtain
federal habeas relief, he must first demonstrate that his case satisfies
the condition set by §2254(d)(1). That provision modifies the previously
settled rule of independent federal review of state prisoners' habeas
petitions in order to curb delays, to prevent "retrials" on federal habeas,
and to give effect to state convictions to the extent possible under law.
In light of the cardinal principle of statutory construction that courts
must give effect, if possible, to every clause and word of a statute, this
Court must give independent meaning to both the "contrary to" and
"anreasonable application" clauses of §2254(d)(1). Given the commonly
understood definitions of "contrary" as "diametrically different," "opposite in character or nature," or '"mutually opposed," §2254(d)(1)'s first
clause must be interpreted to mean that a federal habeas court may
grant relief if the state court (1) arrives at a conclusion opposite to that
reached by this Court on a question of law or (2) decides a case differ-

Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)
Syllabus
ently than this Court has on a set of materially indistinguishable facts.
Under the "unreasonable application" clause, a federal habeas court may
grant relief if the state court identifies the correct governing legal principle from this Court's decisions but unreasonably applies that principle
to the facts of the prisoner's case. Pp. 402-409.
(b) In defining what qualifies as an "unreasonable application of...
clearly established Federal law," the Fourth Circuit erred in holding
that a state-court decision involves such an application only if the state
court has applied federal law in a manner that reasonable jurists would
all agree is unreasonable. That standard would tend to mislead federal
habeas courts by focusing on a subjective inquiry. Rather, the federal
court should ask whether the state court's application of clearly established federal law was objectively unreasonable. Cf. Wright v. West,
505 U. S. 277, 304. Although difficult to define, "unreasonable" is a common legal term familiar to federal judges. For present purposes, the
most important point is that an unreasonableapplication of federal law
is different from an incorrect application of federal law. See, e. g., id.,
at 305. Because Congress specifically used the word "unreasonable,"
and not a term like "erroneous" or "incorrect," a federal habeas court
may not grant relief simply because it concludes in its independent judgment that the relevant state-court decision applied clearly established
federal law erroneously or incorrectly. Rather, that application must
also be unreasonable. Finally, the phrase "clearly established Federal
law, as determined by [this] Court" refers to the holdings, as opposed to
the dicta, of this Court's decisions as of the time of the relevant statecourt decision. In this respect, the quoted phrase bears only a slight
connection to this Court's jurisprudence under Teague v. Lane, 489 U. S.
288. Whatever would qualify as an "old rule" under Teague will constitute "clearly established Federal law, as determined by [this] Court,"
see, e. g., Stringer v. Black, 503 U. S. 222, 228, but with one caveat: Section 2254(d)(1) restricts the source of clearly established law to this
Court's jurisprudence. Pp. 409-413.
STEVENS, J., announced the judgment of the Court and delivered the
opinion of the Court with respect to Parts I, III, and IV, in which O'CoNNOR, KENNEDY, SOUTER, GINSBURG, and BREYER, JJ., joined, and an opinion with respect to Parts II and V, in which SOUTER, GINSBURG, and
BREYER, JJ., joined. O'CONNOR, J., delivered the opinion of the Court
with respect to Part II (except as to the footnote), in which REHNQUIST,
C. J., and KENNEDY and THOMAS, JJ., joined, and in which SCAUIA, J.,
joined, except as to the footnote, and an opinion concurring in part and

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR

Syllabus
concurring in the judgment, in which KENNEDY, J., joined, post, p. 399.
REHNQUIST, C. J., filed an opinion concurring in part and dissenting in
part, in which SCALIA and THOMAS, JJ., joined, post, p. 416.

John J Gibbons argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the briefs were Brian A. Powers, by appointment of
the Court, 526 U. S. 1110, and Ellen 0. Boardman.
Robert Q. Harris,Assistant Attorney General of Virginia,
argued the cause for respondent. With him on the brief was
Mark L. Earley, Attorney General.*
*Briefs of amici curiaeurging reversal were filed for the American Bar
Association by Philip S. Anderson, Abe Krash, Kathleen A Behan, and
John A. Freedman; for the American Civil Liberties Union by Larry W.
Yackle and Steven R. Shapiro; for the National Association of Criminal
Defense Lawyers by John D. Cline and Lisa B. Kemler; for the Virginia
College of Criminal Defense Attorneys et al. by Gerald T Zerkin; for
Professors Lance G. Banning et al. by Barry Levenstam and Jeffrey T
Shaw; and for Marvin E. Frankel et al. by Abner J Mikva.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the State of
California et al. by Bill Lockyer, Attorney General of California, David
Druliner,Chief Assistant Attorney General, Dane R. Gillette, Senior Assistant Attorney General, and Donald E. De Nicola and Ward A Campbell, Deputy Attorneys General, joined by the Attorneys General for their
respective States as follows: Bill Pryor of Alabama, Bruce M. Botelho of
Alaska, Mark Pryor of Arkansas, Ken Salazar of Colorado, John M. Bailey of Connecticut, M. Jane Brady of Delaware, Robert A Butterworth of
Florida, Thurbert E. Baker of Georgia, Alan G. Lance of Idaho, James E.
Ryan of Illinois, Carla Stovall of Kansas, RichardP. Ieyoub of Louisiana,
J Joseph Curran,Jr., of Maryland, Thomas F Reilly of Massachusetts,
Michael C. Moore of Mississippi, Jeremiah W. (Jay) Nixon of Missouri,
Joseph P. Mazurek of Montana, Don Stenberg of Nebraska, Frankie Sue
Del Papa of Nevada, John J Farmer, Jr., of New Jersey, Patricia A
Madrid of New Mexico, Michael E. Easley of North Carolina, Heidi
Heitkamp of North Dakota, Betty D. Montgomery of Ohio, W. A Drew
Edmondson of Oklahoma, Hardy Myers of Oregon, D. Michael Fisher of
Pennsylvania, Charles M. Condon of South Carolina, Mark Barnett of
South Dakota, Paul G. Summers of Tennessee, John Cornyn of Texas,
Jan Graham of Utah, Christine 0. Gregoire of Washington, and Darrell
McGraw, Jr., of West Virginia; and for the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation by Kent S. Scheidegger.

Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
JUSTICE STEVENS announced the judgment of the Court
and delivered the opinion of the Court with respect to Parts
I, III, and IV, and an opinion with respect to Parts II and V.*
The questions presented are whether Terry Williams' constitutional right to the effective assistance of counsel as
defined in Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668 (1984),
was violated, and whether the judgment of the Virginia Supreme Court refusing to set aside his death sentence "was
contrary to, or involved an unreasonable application of,
clearly established Federal law, as determined by the Supreme Court of the United States," within the meaning of
28 U. S.C. §2254(d)(1) (1994 ed., Supp. III). We answer
both questions affirmatively.

I
On November 3, 1985, Harris Stone was found dead in his
residence on Henry Street in Danville, Virginia. Finding no
indication of a struggle, local officials determined that the
cause of death was blood alcohol poisoning, and the case was
considered closed. Six months after Stone's death, Terry
Williams, who was then incarcerated in the "I" unit of the
city jail for an unrelated offense, wrote a letter to the police
stating that he had killed "'that man down on Henry
Street"' and also stating that he "'did it"' to that "'lady
down on West Green Street"' and was "'very sorry."' The
letter was unsigned, but it closed with a reference to "I cell."
App. 41. The police readily identified Williams as its author,
and, on April 25, 1986, they obtained several statements from
him. In one Williams admitted that, after Stone refused to
lend him "'a couple of dollars,"' he had killed Stone with a
*JUSTICE SOUTER, JUSTICE GINSBURG,

and

JUSTICE BREYER

opinion in its entirety. JUSTICE O'CONNOR and
Parts I, III, and IV of this opinion.

join this

JUSTICE KENNEDY join

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR
Opinion of the Court

mattock and taken the money from his wallet.' Id., at 4.
In September 1986, Williams was convicted of robbery and
capital murder.
At Williams' sentencing hearing, the prosecution proved
that Williams had been convicted of armed robbery in 1976
and burglary and grand larceny in 1982. The prosecution
also introduced the written confessions that Williams had
made in April. The prosecution described two auto thefts

and two separate violent assaults on elderly victims perpetrated after the Stone murder. On December 4, 1985, Williams had started a fire outside one victim's residence before

attacking and robbing him. On March 5, 1986, Williams had
brutally assaulted an elderly woman on West Green Streetan incident he had mentioned in his letter to the police.

That confession was particularly damaging because other
evidence established that the woman was in a "vegetative

state" and not expected to recover. Id., at 60.

Williams

had also been convicted of arson for setting a fire in the jail
while awaiting trial in this case. Two expert witnesses employed by the State testified that there was a "high probabil""I had gone to Dee Dee Stone's house on Henry Street, Dee Dee's
father was there. No one else was there except him. He had been drinking a lot. He was on the bed. He asked me if I wanted a drink. I told
him, 'No.' I asked him if I could borrow a couple of dollars and he told
me, 'No.' We started arguing and things started going around in my
head. I just wanted to get back at him. I don't know what. He just laid
back like he had passed out. He was laying there talking and moaning to
himself. I went into the kitchen. I saw the butcher knife. I didn't want
to use it. I was looking for something to use. I went into the bathroom
and I saw the mattock. I picked up the mattock and I came back into the
room where he was at. He was laying on the bed. He was laying on his
back. I took the mattock and I hit him on the chest with it. He raised
up and was gasping for his breath. He fell over to his side and I hit him
in the back with the mattock. He fell back on the bed. I went and put
the mattock back in the bathroom. I came back into the room. I took
his wallet from his pocket. He had three dollars in it. I got the three
dollars from it. I left him there. He was still grasping for breath."'
App. 4-5.

Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)
Opinion of the Court

ity" that Williams would pose a serious continuing threat to
society. Id., at 89.
The evidence offered by Williams' trial counsel at the sentencing hearing consisted of the testimony of Williams'
mother, two neighbors, and a taped excerpt from a statement
by a psychiatrist. One of the neighbors had not been previously interviewed by defense counsel, but was noticed by
counsel in the audience during the proceedings and asked to
testify on the spot. The three witnesses briefly described
Williams as a "nice boy" and not a violent person. Id., at
124. The recorded psychiatrist's testimony did little more
than relate Williams' statement during an examination that
in the course of one of his earlier robberies, he had removed
the bullets from a gun so as not to injure anyone.
In his cross-examination of the prosecution witnesses, Williams' counsel repeatedly emphasized the fact that Williams
had initiated the contact with the police that enabled them
to solve the murder and to identify him as the perpetrator
of the recent assaults, as well as the car thefts. In closing
argument, Williams' counsel characterized Williams' confessional statements as "dumb," but asked the jury to give
weight to the fact that he had "turned himself in, not on one
crime but on four ... that the [police otherwise] would not
have solved." Id., at 140. The weight of defense counsel's
closing, however, was devoted to explaining that it was difficult to find a reason why the jury should spare Williams' life.2
2In

defense counsel's words: "I will admit too that it is very difficult to

ask you to show mercy to a man who maybe has not shown much mercy
himself. I doubt very seriously that he thought much about mercy when
he was in Mr. Stone's bedroom that night with him. I doubt very seriously that he had mercy very highly on his mind when he was walking
along West Green and the incident with Alberta Stroud. I doubt very
seriously that he had mercy on his mind when he took two cars that didn't
belong to him. Admittedly it is very difficult to get us and ask that you
give this man mercy when he has shown so little of it himself. But I
would ask that you would." Id., at 132-133.

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR
Opinion of the Court

The jury found a probability of future dangerousness and
unanimously fixed Williams' punishment at death. The trial
judge concluded that such punishment was "proper" and
"just" and imposed the death sentence. Id., at 154. The
Virginia Supreme Court affirmed the conviction and sentence. Williams v. Commonwealth, 234 Va. 168, 360 S. E.
2d 361 (1987), cert. denied, Williams v. Virginia, 484 U. S.
1020 (1988). It rejected Williams' argument that when the
trial judge imposed sentence, he failed to give mitigating
weight to the fact that Williams had turned himself in. 234
Va., at 181-182, 360 S. E. 2d, at 369-370.
State Habeas Corpus Proceedings
In 1988 Williams filed for state collateral relief in the
Danville Circuit Court. The petition was subsequently
amended, and the Circuit Court (the same judge who had
presided over Williams' trial and sentencing) held an evidentiary hearing on Williams' claim that trial counsel had been
ineffective.' Based on the evidence adduced after two days
of hearings, Judge Ingram found that Williams' conviction
was valid, but that his trial attorneys had been ineffective
during sentencing. Among the evidence reviewed that had
not been presented at trial were documents prepared in connection with Williams' commitment when he was 11 years old
that dramatically described mistreatment, abuse, and neglect
during his early childhood, as well as testimony that he was
"borderline mentally retarded," had suffered repeated head
injuries, and might have mental impairments organic in origin. App. 528-529, 595. The habeas hearing also revealed
'While Williams' petition was pending before the Circuit Court, Virginia amended its state habeas statute to vest in the State Supreme Court

exclusive jurisdiction to award writs of habeas corpus in capital cases.
Va. Code Ann. §8.01-654(C)(1) (Supp. 1999). Shortly after the Circuit
Court held its evidentiary hearing, the Supreme Court assumed jurisdiction over Williams' petition and instructed the Circuit Court to issue findings of fact and legal recommendation regarding Williams' ineffectiveassistance claims.

Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)
Opinion of the Court

that the same experts who had testified on the State's behalf
at trial believed that Williams, if kept in a "structured environment," would not pose a future danger to society. Id.,
at 313-314.
Counsel's failure to discover and present this and other
significant mitigating evidence was "below the range expected of reasonable, professional competent assistance of
counsel." Id., at 424. Counsel's performance thus "did not
measure up to the standard required under the holding of
Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668 (1984), and [if it
had,] there is a reasonable probability that the result of the
sentencing phase would have been different." Id., at 429.
Judge Ingram therefore recommended that Williams be
granted a rehearing on the sentencing phase of his trial.
The Virginia Supreme Court did not accept that recommendation. Williams v. Warden, 254 Va. 16, 487 S. E. 2d
194 (1997). Although it assumed, without deciding, that
trial counsel had been ineffective, id., at 23-26, 487 S. E. 2d,
at 198, 200, it disagreed with the trial judge's conclusion that
Williams had suffered sufficient prejudice to warrant relief.
Treating the prejudice inquiry as a mixed question of law
and fact, the Virginia Supreme Court accepted the factual
determination that available evidence in mitigation had not
been presented at the trial, but held that the trial judge had
misapplied the law in two respects. First, relying on our
decision in Lockhart v. Fretwell, 506 U. S. 364 (1993), the
court held that it was wrong for the trial judge to rely "'on
mere outcome determination'" when assessing prejudice, 254
Va., at 23, 487 S. E. 2d, at 198 (quoting Lockhart, 506 U. S.,
at 369). Second, it construed the trial judge's opinion as
having "adopted a per se approach" that would establish
prejudice whenever any mitigating evidence was omitted.
254 Va., at 26, 487 S. E. 2d, at 200.
The court then reviewed the prosecution evidence supporting the "future dangerousness" aggravating circumstance, reciting Williams' criminal history, including the sev-

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR
Opinion of the Court

eral most recent offenses to which he had confessed. In
comparison, it found that the excluded mitigating evidencewhich it characterized as merely indicating "that numerous
people, mostly relatives, thought that defendant was nonviolent and could cope very well in a structured environment,"
ibid.-"barely would have altered the profile of this defendant that was presented to the jury," ibid. On this basis, the
court concluded that there was no reasonable possibility that
the omitted evidence would have affected the jury's sentencing recommendation, and that Williams had failed to demonstrate that his sentencing proceeding was fundamentally
unfair.
FederalHabeas Corpus Proceedings
Having exhausted his state remedies, Williams sought a
federal writ of habeas corpus pursuant to 28 U. S. C. §2254
(1994 ed. and Supp. III). After reviewing the state habeas
hearing transcript and the state courts' findings of fact and
conclusions of law, the federal trial judge agreed with the
Virginia trial judge: The death sentence was constitutionally infirm.
After noting that the Virginia Supreme Court had not addressed the question whether trial counsel's performance at
the sentencing hearing fell below the range of competence
demanded of lawyers in criminal cases, the judge began by
addressing that issue in detail. He identified five categories
of mitigating evidence that counsel had failed to introduce,4
4

"(i) Counsel did not introduce evidence of the Petitioner's background .... (ii) Counsel did not introduce evidence that Petitioner was

abused by his father. (iii) Counsel did not introduce testimony from correctional officers who were willing to testify that defendant would not
pose a danger while incarcerated. Nor did counsel offer prison commendations awarded to Williams for his help in breaking up a prison drug
ring and for returning a guard's missing wallet. (iv) Several character
witnesses were not called to testify... [T]he testimony of Elliott, a respected CPA in the community, could have been quite important to the
jury .... (v) Finally, counsel did not introduce evidence that Petitioner

Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)
Opinion of the Court

and he rejected the argument that counsel's failure to conduct an adequate investigation had been a strategic decision
to rely almost entirely on the fact that Williams had voluntarily confessed.
According to Williams' trial counsel's testimony before the
state habeas court, counsel did not fail to seek Williams' juvenile and social services records because he thought they
would be counterproductive, but because counsel erroneously believed that "'state law didn't permit it."' App. 470.
Counsel also acknowledged in the course of the hearings that
information about Williams' childhood would have been important in mitigation. And counsel's failure to contact a potentially persuasive character witness was likewise not a
conscious strategic choice, but simply a failure to return that
witness' phone call offering his service. Id., at 470-471.
Finally, even if counsel neglected to conduct such an investigation at the time as part of a tactical decision, the District
Judge found, tactics as a matter of reasonable performance
could not justify the omissions.
Turning to the prejudice issue, the judge determined that
there was "'a reasonable probability that, but for counsel's
unprofessional errors, the result of the proceeding would
have been different.' Strickland,466 U. S. at 694." Id., at
473. He found that the Virginia Supreme Court had erroneously assumed that Lockhart had modified the Strickland
standard for determining prejudice, and that it had made an
important error of fact in discussing its finding of no prejudice. 5 Having introduced his analysis of Williams' claim
was borderline mentally retarded, though he was found competent to
stand trial." App. 465-469.
5
"Specifically, the Virginia Supreme Court found no prejudice, reasoning: 'The mitigation evidence that the prisoner says, in retrospect, his trial
counsel should have discovered and offered barely would have altered the
proffle of this defendant that was presented to the jury. At most, this
evidence would have shown that numerous people, mostly relatives,
thought that defendant was nonviolent and could cope very well in a structured environment.' Williams, 487 S.E. 2d at 200. The Virginia Su-

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

with the standard of review applicable on habeas appeals
provided by 28 U. S. C. §2254(d) (1994 ed., Supp. III), the
judge concluded that those errors established that the Virginia Supreme Court's decision "was contrary to, or involved
an unreasonable application of, clearly established Federal
law" within the meaning of § 2254(d)(1).
The Federal Court of Appeals reversed. 163 F. 3d 860
(CA4 1998). It construed §2254(d)(1) as prohibiting the
grant of habeas corpus relief unless the state court "'decided
the question by interpreting or applying the relevant precedent in a manner that reasonable jurists would all agree is
unreasonable."' Id., at 865 (quoting Green v. French, 143 F.
3d 865, 870 (CA4 1998)). Applying that standard, it could
not say that the Virginia Supreme Court's decision on the
prejudice issue was an unreasonable application of the tests
developed in either Strickland or Lockhart.6 It explained
that the evidence that Williams presented a future danger
to society was "simply overwhelming," 163 F. 3d, at 868, it
endorsed the Virginia Supreme Court's interpretation of
Lockhart, 163 F. 3d, at 869, and it characterized the state
court's understanding of the facts in this case as "reasonable," id., at 870.
We granted certiorari, 526 U. S. 1050 (1999), and now
reverse.
II
In 1867, Congress enacted a statute providing that federal
courts "shall have power to grant writs of habeas corpus in
preme Court ignored or overlooked the evidence of Williams' difficult
childhood and abuse and his limited mental capacity. It is also unreasonable to characterize the additional evidence as coming from 'mostly relatives.' As stated, supra, Bruce Elliott, a respected professional in the
community, and several correctional officers offered to testify on Williams
behalf." Id., at 476.
6
Like the Virginia Supreme Court, the Court of Appeals assumed, without deciding, that the performance of trial counsel fell below an objective
standard of reasonableness. 163 F. 3d, at 867.

Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

all cases where any person may be restrained of his or her
liberty in violation of the constitution, or of any treaty or
law of the United States . . . ." Act of Feb. 5, 1867, ch. 28,
§ 1, 14 Stat. 385. Over the years, the federal habeas corpus
statute has been repeatedly amended, but the scope of that
jurisdictional grant remains the same. 7 It is, of course, well
settled that the fact that constitutional error occurred in the
proceedings that led to a state-court conviction may not
alone be sufficient reason for concluding that a prisoner is
entitled to the remedy of habeas. See, e. g., Stone v. Powell,
428 U. S. 465 (1976); Brecht v. Abrahamson, 507 U. S. 619
(1993). On the other hand, errors that undermine confidence
in the fundamental fairness of the state adjudication certainly justify the issuance of the federal writ. See, e. g.,
Teague v. Lane, 489 U. S. 288, 311-314 (1989) (quoting
Mackey v. United States, 401 U. S.667, 692-694 (1971) (Harlan, J., concurring in judgments in part and dissenting in
part), and quoting Rose v. Lundy, 455 U. S. 509, 544 (1982)
(STEVENS, J., dissenting)). The deprivation of the right to
the effective assistance of counsel recognized in Strickland
is such an error. Strickland, 466 U. S., at 686, 697-698.
The warden here contends that federal habeas corpus relief is prohibited by the amendment to 28 U. S. C. § 2254 (1994
ed., Supp. III), enacted as a part of the Antiterrorism and
Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996 (AEDPA). The relevant portion of that amendment provides:
7By Act of Congress: "(a) Writs of habeas corpus may be granted by the
Supreme Court, any justice thereof, the district courts and any circuit
judge within their respective jurisdictions .... (c) The writ of habeas
corpus shall not extend to a prisoner unless- . . . (3) He is in custody in
violation of the Constitution or laws or treaties of the United States ...."
28 U. S. C. §2241(c)(3).

In parallel, §2254(a) provides: "The Supreme

Court, a Justice thereof, a circuit judge, or a district court shall entertain
an application for a writ of habeas corpus in behalf of a person in custody
pursuant to the judgment of a State court only on the ground that he
is in custody in violation of the Constitution or laws or treaties of the
United States."

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

"(d) An application for a writ of habeas corpus on behalf of a person in custody pursuant to the judgment of
a State court shall not be granted with respect to any
claim that was adjudicated on the merits in State court
proceedings unless the adjudication of the claim"(1) resulted in a decision that was contrary to, or
involved an unreasonable application of, clearly established Federal law, as determined by the Supreme Court
of the United States . ..."

In this case, the Court of Appeals applied the construction
of the amendment that it had adopted in its earlier opinion
in Green v. French, 143 F. 3d 865 (CA4 1998). It read the
amendment as prohibiting federal courts from issuing the
writ unless:
"(a) the state court decision is in 'square conflict' with
Supreme Court precedent that is controlling as to law
and fact or (b) if no such controlling decision exists, 'the
state court's resolution of a question of pure law rests
upon an objectively unreasonable derivation of legal
principles from the relevant [S]upreme [C]ourt precedents, or if its decision rests upon an objectively unreasonable application of established principles to new
facts,"' 163 F. 3d, at 865 (quoting Green, 143 F. 3d, at
870).
Accordingly, it held that a federal court may issue habeas
relief only if "'the state courts have decided the question by
interpreting or applying the relevant precedent in a manner
that reasonable jurists would all agree is unreasonable,"' 163
F. 3d, at 865.8
8

The warden's view is narrower.

He argues that 28 U. S. C. § 2254(d)(1)

(1994 ed., Supp. III) establishes a new general rule that prohibits federal
courts from granting habeas corpus relief on the basis of any claim that a
state court has adjudicated on the merits, and that §2254(d)(1) merely
identifies two narrow exceptions to the general rule-when a state court
has issued a decision "contrary to" or an "unreasonable application of"

Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)
Opinion of

STEVENS,

J.

We are convinced that that interpretation of the amendment is incorrect. It would impose a test for determining
when a legal rule is clearly established that simply cannot
be squared with the real practice of decisional law.9 It
would apply a standard for determining the "reasonableness"
of state-court decisions that is not contained in the statute
itself, and that Congress surely did not intend. And it
would wrongly require the federal courts, including this
Court, to defer to state judges' interpretations of federal law.
As the Fourth Circuit would have it, a state-court judgment is "unreasonable" in the face of federal law only if all
reasonable jurists would agree that the state court was unreasonable. Thus, in this case, for example, even if the Virginia Supreme Court misread our opinion in Lockhart, we
could not grant relief unless we believed that none of the
judges who agreed with the state court's interpretation of
that case was a "reasonable jurist." But the statute says
clearly established federal law. Brief for Respondent 14-15. The first,
"contrary to" exception, in his view, applies only to "starkly unreasonable"
errors of law. The first category thus imposes "a standard of review far
more limited than 'de novo,' 'independent' or 'plenary' review." Id., at
24. The state-court judgment must thus be so far afield "as to make the
'unlawfulness' of the state court decision 'apparent."' Id., at 25. The
second exception likewise replaces the "de novo" standard of reviewing
mixed questions of law and fact with the standard of "objective reasonableness" as formulated by the Court of Appeals. Id., at 30-31.
9
Although we explain our understanding of "clearly established law,"
infra, at 379-384, we note that the Fourth Circuit's construction of the
amendment's inquiry in this respect is especially problematic. It separates cases into those for which a "controlling decision" exists and those
for which no such decision exists. The former category includes very few
cases, since a rule is "controlling" only if it matches the case before the
court both "as to law and fact," and most cases are factually distinguishable in some respect. A literal application of the Fourth Circuit test
would yield a particularly perverse outcome in cases involving the Strickland rule for establishing ineffective assistance of counsel, since that case,
which established the "controlling" rule of law on the issue, contained
facts insufficient to show ineffectiveness.

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR
Opinion of

STEVENS,

J.

nothing about "reasonable judges," presumably because all,
or virtually all, such judges occasionally commit error; they
make decisions that in retrospect may be characterized as
"unreasonable." Indeed, it is most unlikely that Congress
would deliberately impose such a requirement of unanimity
on federal judges. As Congress is acutely aware, reasonable
lawyers and lawgivers regularly disagree with one another.
Congress surely did not intend that the views of one such
judge who might think that relief is not warranted in a
particular case should always have greater weight than the
contrary, considered judgment of several other reasonable
judges.
The inquiry mandated by the amendment relates to the
way in which a federal habeas court exercises its duty to
decide constitutional questions; the amendment does not
alter the underlying grant of jurisdiction in §2254(a), see
n. 7, supra.10 When federal judges exercise their federalquestion jurisdiction under the "judicial Power" of Article
III of the Constitution, it is "emphatically the province and
duty" of those judges to "say what the law is." Marbury v.
Madison, 1 Cranch 137, 177 (1803). At the core of this
1l Indeed, Congress roundly rejected an amendment to the bill eventually adopted that directly invoked the text of the jurisdictional grant, 28
U. S. C. §2254(a) (providing that the federal courts "shall entertain an
application for a writ of habeas corpus" (emphasis added)). The amendment read: "Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an application for
a writ of habeas corpus in behalf of a person in custody pursuant to a
judgment or order of a State court shall not be entertainedby a court of
the United States unless the remedies in the courts of the State are inadequate or ineffective to test the legality of the person's detention." 141
Cong. Rec. 14991 (1995) (amendment of Sen. Kyl) (emphasis added). In
speaking against the Kyl amendment, Senator Specter (a key proponent
of the eventual habeas reform) explained that when "dealing with the
question of jurisdiction of the Federal courts to entertain questions on
Federal issues, on constitutional issues, I believe it is necessary that the
Federal courts retain that jurisdiction as a constitutional matter." Id.,
at 15050.

Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)
Opinion of

STEVENS,

J.

power is the federal courts' independent responsibility-independent from its coequal branches in the Federal Government, and independent from the separate authority of the
several States-to interpret federal law. A construction of
AEDPA that would require the federal courts to cede this
authority to the courts of the States would be inconsistent
with the practice that federal judges have traditionally followed in discharging their duties under Article III of the
Constitution. If Congress had intended to require such an
important change in the exercise of our jurisdiction, we believe it would have spoken with much greater clarity than is
found in the text of AEDPA.
This basic premise informs our interpretation of both parts
of §2254(d)(1): first, the requirement that the determinations
of state courts be tested only against "clearly established
Federal law, as determined by the Supreme Court of the
United States," and second, the prohibition on the issuance
of the writ unless the state court's decision is "contrary to,
or involved an unreasonable application of," that clearly established law. We address each part in turn.
The "clearly established law" requirement
In Teague v. Lane, 489 U. S. 288 (1989), we held that the
petitioner was not entitled to federal habeas relief because
he was relying on a rule of federal law that had not been
announced until after his state conviction became final. The
antiretroactivity rule recognized in Teague, which prohibits
reliance on "new rules," is the functional equivalent of a statutory provision commanding exclusive reliance on "clearly
established law." Because there is no reason to believe that
Congress intended to require federal courts to ask both
whether a rule sought on habeas is "new" under Teaguewhich remains the law-and also whether it is "clearly established" under AEDPA, it seems safe to assume that Congress

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

had congruent concepts in mind." It is perfectly clear that
AEDPA codifies Teague to the extent that Teague requires

federal habeas courts to deny relief that is contingent upon
a rule of law not clearly established at the time the state
12
conviction became final.
Teague's core principles are therefore relevant to our construction of this requirement. Justice Harlan recognized
11
It is not unusual for Congress to codify earlier precedent in the habeas
context. Thus, for example, the exhaustion rule applied in Ex parte
Hawk, 321 U. S. 114 (1944) (per curiam), and the abuse of the writ doctrine applied in Sanders v. United States, 373 U. S. 1 (1963), were later
codified. See 28 U. S. C. §2254(b) (1994 ed., Supp. III) (exhaustion requirement); 28 U. S. C. §2254, Rule 9(b), Rules Governing §2254 Cases in
the United States District Courts. A previous version of §2254, as we
stated in Miller v. Fenton,474 U. S. 104, 111 (1985), "was an almost verbatim codification of the standards delineated in Townsend v. Sain, 372 U. S.
293 (1963), for determining when a district court must hold an evidentiary
hearing before acting on a habeas petition."
12We are not persuaded by the argument that because Congress used
the words "clearly established law" and not "new rule," it meant in this
section to codify an aspect of the doctrine of executive qualified immunity
rather than Teague's antiretroactivity bar. Brief for Respondent 28-29,
n. 19. The warden refers us specifically to §2244(b)(2)(A) and 28 U. S. C.
§2254(e)(2) (1994 ed., Supp. III), in which the statute does in so many
words employ the "new rule" language familiar to Teague and its progeny.
Congress thus knew precisely the words to use if it had wished to codify
Teague per se. That it did not use those words in §2254(d) is evidence,
the argument goes, that it had something else in mind entirely in amending that section. We think, quite the contrary, that the verbatim adoption
of the Teague language in these other sections bolsters our impression that
Congress had Teague-and not any unrelated area of our jurisprudencespecifically in mind in amending the habeas statute. These provisions,
seen together, make it impossible to conclude that Congress was not fully
aware of, and interested in codifying into law, that aspect of this Court's
habeas doctrine. We will not assume that in a single subsection of an
amendment entirely devoted to the law of habeas corpus, Congress made
the anomalous choice of reaching into the doctrinally distinct law of qualified immunity for a single phrase that just so happens to be the conceptual
twin of a dominant principle in habeas law of which Congress was fully
aware.

Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)

Opinion of

STEVENS,

J.

the "inevitable difficulties" that come with "attempting 'to
determine whether a particular decision has really announced a "new" rule at all or whether it has simply applied
a well-established constitutional principle to govern a case
which is closely analogous to those which have been previously considered in the prior case law."' Mackey, 401
U. S., at 695 (quoting Desist v. United States, 394 U. S. 244,
263 (1969)). But Teague established some guidance for making this determination, explaining that a federal habeas
court operates within the bounds of comity and finality if it
applies a rule "dictated by precedent existing at the time
the defendant's conviction became final." 489 U. S., at 301
(emphasis deleted). A rule that "breaks new ground or imposes a new obligation on the States or the Federal Government," ibid., falls outside this universe of federal law.
To this, AEDPA has added, immediately following the
"clearly established law" requirement, a clause limiting the
area of relevant law to that "determined by the Supreme
Court of the United States." 28 U. S. C. § 2254(d)(1) (1994
ed., Supp. I1). If this Court has not broken sufficient legal
ground to establish an asked-for constitutional principle, the
lower federal courts cannot themselves establish such a principle with clarity sufficient to satisfy the AEDPA bar. In
this respect, we agree with the Seventh Circuit that this
clause "extends the principle of Teague by limiting the source
of doctrine on which a federal court may rely in addressing
the application for a writ." Lindh v. Murphy, 96 F. 3d 856,
869 (1996). As that court explained:
"This is a retrenchment from former practice, which allowed the United States courts of appeals to rely on
their own jurisprudence in addition to that of the Supreme Court. The novelty in this portion of § 2254(d)(1)
is not the 'contrary to' part but the reference to 'Federal
law, as determined by the Supreme Court of the United
States' (emphasis added). This extends the principle of
Teague [v. Lane, 489 U. S. 288 (1989),] by limiting the

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

source of doctrine on which a federal court may rely
in addressing the application for a writ. It does not,
however, purport to limit the federal courts' independent interpretive authority with respect to federal questions." Ibid.
A rule that fails to satisfy the foregoing criteria is barred by
Teague from application on collateral review, and, similarly,
is not available as a basis for relief in a habeas case to which
AEDPA applies.
In the context of this case, we also note that, as our precedent interpreting Teague has demonstrated, rules of law may
be sufficiently clear for habeas purposes even when they are
expressed in terms of a generalized standard rather than as

a bright-line rule. As JUSTICE KENNEDY has explained:
"If the rule in question is one which of necessity requires a case-by-case examination of the evidence, then
we can tolerate a number of specific applications without
saying that those applications themselves create a new
rule .... Where the beginning point is a rule of this
general application, a rule designed for the specific purpose of evaluating a myriad of factual contexts, it will
be the infrequent case that yields a result so novel that
it forges a new rule, one not dictated by precedent."
Wright v. West, 505 U. S. 277, 308-309 (1992) (opinion
concurring in judgment).
Moreover, the determination whether or not a rule is clearly
established at the time a state court renders its final judgment of conviction is a question as to which the "federal
courts must make an independent evaluation." Id., at 305
(O'CONNOR, J., concurring in judgment); accord, id., at 307
(KENNEDY, J., concurring in judgment).
It has been urged, in contrast, that we should read Teague
and its progeny to encompass a broader principle of deference requiring federal courts to "validat[e] 'reasonable,
good-faith interpretations' of the law" by state courts.

Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

Brief for California et al. as Amici Curiae 6 (quoting Butler
v. McKellar, 494 U. S. 407, 414 (1990)). The position has
been bolstered with references to our statements elucidating
the "new rule" inquiry as one turning on whether "reasonable jurists" would agree the rule was not clearly established. Sawyer v. Smith, 497 U. S. 227, 234 (1990). This
presumption of deference was in essence the position taken
by three Members of this Court in Wright, 505 U. S., at 290291 (opinion of THOMAS, J.) ("[A] federal habeas court 'must
defer to the state court's decision rejecting the claim unless
that decision is patently unreasonable' ") (quoting Butler,494
U. S., at 422 (Brennan, J., dissenting)).
Teague, however, does not extend this far. The often repeated language that Teague endorses "reasonable, goodfaith interpretations" by state courts is an explanation of
policy, not a statement of law. The Teague cases reflect this
Court's view that habeas corpus is not to be used as a second
criminal trial, and federal courts are not to run roughshod
over the considered findings and judgments of the state
courts that conducted the original trial and heard the initial
appeals. On the contrary, we have long insisted that federal
habeas courts attend closely to those considered decisions,
and give them full effect when their findings and judgments
are consistent with federal law. See Thompson v. Keohane,

516 U. S. 99, 107-116 (1995).

But as JUSTICE O'CONNOR ex-

plained in Wright:
"[T]he duty of the federal court in evaluating whether
a rule is 'new' is not the same as deference; ... Teague
does not direct federal courts to spend less time or effort scrutinizing the existing federal law, on the ground
that they can assume the state courts interpreted it
properly....
"[T]he maxim that federal courts should 'give great
weight to the considered conclusions of a coequal state
judiciary' . . does not mean that we have held in the
past that federal courts must presume the correctness

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

of a state court's legal conclusions on habeas, or that a
state court's incorrect legal determination has ever been
allowed to stand because it was reasonable. We have
always held that federal courts, even on habeas, have an
independent obligation to say what the law is." 505
U. S., at 305 (opinion concurring in judgment).
We are convinced that in the phrase, "clearly established
law," Congress did not intend to modify that independent
obligation.
The "contrary to, or an unreasonable application of,"
requirement
The message that Congress intended to convey by using
the phrases "contrary to" and "unreasonable application of"
is not entirely clear. The prevailing view in the Circuits is
that the former phrase requires de novo review of "pure"
questions of law and the latter requires some sort of "reasonability" review of so-called mixed questions of law and fact.
See, e. g., Neelley v. Nagle, 138 F. 3d 917 (CAll 1998); Drinkard v. Johnson, 97 F. 3d 751 (CA5 1996); Lindh v. Murphy,
96 F. 3d 856 (CA7 1996) (en banc), rev'd on other grounds,
521 U. S.320 (1997).
We are not persuaded that the phrases define two mutually exclusive categories of questions. Most constitutional
questions that arise in habeas corpus proceedings-and
therefore most "decisions" to be made-require the federal
judge to apply a rule of law to a set of facts, some of which
may be disputed and some undisputed. For example, an erroneous conclusion that particular circumstances established
the voluntariness of a confession, or that there exists a conflict of interest when one attorney represents multiple defendants, may well be described either as "contrary to" or as
an "unreasonable application of" the governing rule of law.
Cf. Miller v. Fenton, 474 U. S.104, 116 (1985); Cuyler v. Sullivan, 446 U. S. 335, 341-342 (1980). In constitutional adjudication, as in the common law, rules of law often develop

Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)
Opinion of

STEVENS,

J.

incrementally as earlier decisions are applied to new factual
situations. See Wright, 505 U. S., at 307 (KENNEDY, J., concurring in judgment). But rules that depend upon such
elaboration are hardly less lawlike than those that establish
a bright-line test.
Indeed, our pre-AEDPA efforts to distinguish questions of
fact, questions of law, and "mixed questions," and to create
an appropriate standard of habeas review for each, generated
some not insubstantial differences of opinion as to which issues of law fell into which category of question, and as to
which standard of review applied to each. See Thompson,
516 U. S., at 110-111 (acknowledging "'that the Court has
not charted an entirely clear course in this area"' and that
"the proper characterization of a question as one of fact or
law is sometimes slippery") (quoting Miller, 474 U. S., at
113). We thus think the Fourth Circuit was correct when it
attributed the lack of clarity in the statute, in part, to the
overlapping meanings of the phrases "contrary to" and "unreasonable application of." See Green, 143 F. 3d, at 870.
The statutory text likewise does not obviously prescribe a
specific, recognizable standard of review for dealing with
either phrase. Significantly, it does not use any term, such
as "de novo" or "plain error," that would easily identify a
familiar standard of review. Rather, the text is fairly read
simply as a command that a federal court not issue the habeas writ unless the state court was wrong as a matter of
law or unreasonable in its application of law in a given case.
The suggestion that a wrong state-court "decision"-a legal
judgment rendered "after consideration of facts, and . . .
law," Black's Law Dictionary 407 (6th ed. 1990) (emphasis
added)-may no longer be redressed through habeas (because it is unreachable under the "unreasonable application"
phrase) is based on a mistaken insistence that the § 2254(d)(1)
phrases have not only independent, but mutually exclusive,
meanings. Whether or not a federal court can issue the writ
"under [the] 'unreasonable application' clause," the statute is

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR
Opinion of

STEVENS,

J.

clear that habeas may issue under § 2254(d)(1) if a state-court
"decision" is "contrary to . . . clearly established Federal
law." We thus anticipate that there will be a variety of
cases, like this one, in which both phrases may be implicated.
Even though we cannot conclude that the phrases establish
"a body of rigid rules," they do express a "mood" that the
Federal Judiciary must respect. Universal Camera Corp. v.
NLRB, 340 U. S. 474, 487 (1951). In this respect, it seems
clear that Congress intended federal judges to attend with
the utmost care to state-court decisions, including all of the
reasons supporting their decisions, before concluding that
those proceedings were infected by constitutional error sufficiently serious to warrant the issuance of the writ. Likewise, the statute in a separate provision provides for the
habeas remedy when a state-court decision "was based on an
unreasonable determination of the facts in light of the evidence presented in the State court proceeding." 28 U. S. C.
§ 2254(d)(2) (1994 ed., Supp. III) (emphasis added). While
this provision is not before us in this case, it provides relevant context for our interpretation of § 2254(d)(1); in this respect, it bolsters our conviction that federal habeas courts
must make as the starting point of their analysis the state
courts' determinations of fact, including that aspect of a
"mixed question" that rests on a finding of fact. AEDPA
plainly sought to ensure a level of,"deference to the determinations of state courts," provided those determinations did
not conflict with federal law or apply federal law in an unreasonable way. H. R. Conf. Rep. No. 104-518, p. 111 (1996).
Congress wished to curb delays, to prevent "retrials" on federal habeas, and to give effect to state convictions to the
extent possible under law. When federal courts are able to
fulfill these goals within the bounds of the law, AEDPA instructs them to do so.
On the other hand, it is significant that the word "deference" does not appear in the text of the statute itself. Neither the legislative history nor the statutory text suggests

Cite as: 529 U. S. 862 (2000)
Opinion of

STEVENS, J.

any difference in the so-called "deference" depending on
which of the two phrases is implicated. 13 Whatever "deference" Congress had in mind with respect to both phrases, it
surely is not a requirement that federal courts actually defer
to a state-court application of the federal law that is, in the
independent judgment of the federal court, in error. As
Judge Easterbrook noted with respect to the phrase "contrary to":
"Section 2254(d) requires us to give state courts' opinions a respectful reading, and to listen carefully to their
conclusions, but when the state court addresses a legal
question, it is the law 'as determined by the Supreme
Court of the United States' that prevails." Lindh, 96
F. 3d, at 869.14
8
" As Judge Easterbrook has noted, the statute surely does not require
the kind of "deference" appropriate in other contexts: "It does not tell us
to 'defer' to state decisions, as if the Constitution means one thing in
Wisconsin and another in Indiana. Nor does it tell us to treat state courts
the way we treat federal administrative agencies. Deference after the
fashion of Chevron U S. A Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council,
Inc., 467 U. S. 887... (1984), depends on delegation. See Adams Fruit
Co. v. Barrett, 494 U. S. 688... (1990). Congress did not delegate either
interpretive or executive power to the state courts. They exercise powers under their domestic law, constrained by the Constitution of the United
States. 'Deference' to the jurisdictions bound by those constraints is not
sensible." Lindh v. Murphy, 96 F. 3d 856, 868 (CA7 1996) (en banc), rev'd
on other grounds, 521 U. S. 320 (1997).
14 The Court advances three reasons for adopting its alternative construction of the phrase "unreasonable application of." First, the use of
the word "unreasonable" in the statute suggests that Congress was directly influenced by the "patently unreasonable" standard advocated by
JUSTICE THOMAS in his opinion in Wright v. West, 505 U. S. 277, 287 (1992),
post, at 411-412; second, the legislative history supports this view, see
post, at 408, n.; and third, Congress must have intended to change the law
more substantially than our reading of 28 U. S. C. §2254(d)(1) (1994 ed.,
Supp. III) permits.
None of these reasons is persuasive. First, even though, as the Court
recognizes, the term "unreasonable" is "difficult to define," post, at 410,
neither the statute itself nor the Court's explanation of it suggests that

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

Our disagreement with the Court about the precise
meaning of the phrase "contrary to," and the word "unrea-

sonable," is, of course, important, but should affect only a
narrow category of cases. The simplest and first definition
of "contrary to" as a phrase is "in conflict with." Webster's
AEDPA's "unreasonable application of" has the same meaning as JUSTICE
THOMAS' "'patently unreasonable"' standard mentioned in his dictum in
Wright. 505 U. S., at 291 (quoting Butler v. McKellar, 494 U. S.407, 422
(1990) (Brennan, J., dissenting)). To the extent the "broader debate" in
Wright touched upon the Court's novel distinction today between what is
"wrong" and what is "unreasonable," it was in the context of a discussion
not about the standard of review habeas courts should use for lawapplication questions, but about whether a rule is "new" or "old" such
that Teague's retroactivity rule would bar habeas relief; JUSTICE THOMAS
contended that Teague barred habeas "whenever the state courts have
interpreted old precedents reasonably, not [as JUSTICE O'CONNOR suggested] only when they have done so 'properly."' 505 U. S., at 291-292,
n. 8. Teague, of course, as JUSTICE O'CONNOR correctly pointed out, "did
not establish a standard of review at all," 505 U. S., at 303-304; rather
than instructing a court how to review a claim, it simply asks, in absolute
terms, whether a rule was clear at the time of a state-court decision. We
thus do not think Wright "confirms" anything about the meaning of
§2254(d)(1), which is,as our division reflects, anything but "clear." Post,
at 412.
As for the other bases for the Court's view, the only two specific citations to the legislative history upon which it relies, post, at 408, do no
more than beg the question. One merely quotes the language of the statute without elaboration, and the other goes to slightly greater length in
stating that state-court judgments must be upheld unless "unreasonable."
Neither sheds any light on what the content of the hypothetical category
of "decisions" that are wrong but nevertheless not "unreasonable." Finally, while we certainly agree with the Court, post, at 403, that AEDPA
wrought substantial changes in habeas law, see supra, at 386; see also,
e. g., 28 U. S. C. § 2244(b) (1994 ed., Supp. III) (strictly limiting second or
successive petitions); § 2244(d) (1-year statute of limitations for habeas
petitions); § 2254(e)(2) (limiting availability of evidentiary hearings on
habeas); §§2263, 2266 (strict deadlines for habeas court rulings), there is
an obvious fallacy in the assumption that because the statute changed
pre-existing law in some respects, it must have rendered this specific
change here.

Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

Ninth New Collegiate Dictionary 285 (1983). In this sense,
we think the phrase surely capacious enough to include a
finding that the state-court "decision" is simply "erroneous"
or wrong. (We hasten to add that even "diametrically different" from, or "opposite" to, an established federal law
would seem to include "decisions" that are wrong in light of
that law.) And there is nothing in the phrase "contrary
to"-as the Court appears to agree-that implies anything
less than independent review by the federal courts. Moreover, state-court decisions that do not "conflict" with federal
law will rarely be "unreasonable" under either the Court's
reading of the statute or ours. We all agree that state-court
judgments must be upheld unless, after the closest examination of the state-court judgment, a federal court is firmly
convinced that a federal constitutional right has been violated. Our difference is as to the cases in which, at first
blush, a state-court judgment seems entirely reasonable, but
thorough analysis by a federal court produces a firm conviction that that judgment is infected by constitutional error.
In our view, such an erroneous judgment is "unreasonable"
within the meaning of the Act even though that conclusion
was not immediately apparent.
In sum, the statute directs federal courts to attend to
every state-court judgment with utmost care, but it does not
require them to defer to the opinion of every reasonable
state-court judge on the content of federal law. If, after
carefully weighing all the reasons for accepting a state
court's judgment, a federal court is convinced that a prisoner's custody-or, as in this case, his sentence of death-violates the Constitution, that independent judgment should
prevail. Otherwise the federal "law as determined by the
Supreme Court of the United States" might be applied by
the federal courts one way in Virginia and another way in
California. In light of the well-recognized interest in ensuring that federal courts interpret federal law in a uniform

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR

Opinion of the Court

way,15 we are convinced that Congress did not intend the
statute to produce such a result.
III
In this case, Williams contends that he was denied his constitutionally guaranteed right to the effective assistance of
counsel when his trial lawyers failed to investigate and to
present substantial mitigating evidence to the sentencing
jury. The threshold question under AEDPA is whether Williams seeks to apply a rule of law that was clearly established
at the time his state-court conviction became final. That
question is easily answered because the merits of his claim
are squarely governed by our holding in Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S.668 (1984).
We explained in Strickland that a violation of the right on
which Williams relies has two components:
"First, the defendant must show that counsel's performance was deficient. This requires showing that counsel
made errors so serious that counsel was not functioning
as the 'counsel' guaranteed the defendant by the Sixth
Amendment. Second, the defendant must show that
the deficient performance prejudiced the defense. This
requires showing that counsel's errors were so serious
as to deprive the defendant of a fair trial, a trial whose
result is reliable." Id., at 687.
To establish ineffectiveness, a "defendant must show that
counsel's representation fell below an objective standard of
5 See,

e. g., Mackey v. United States, 401 U. S.667, 689 (1971); Felker v.
Turpin, 518 U. S.651, 667 (1996) (SOUTER, J., concurring). Indeed, a contrary rule would be in substantial tension with the interest in uniformity
served by Congress' modification in AEDPA of our previous Teague jurisprudence-now the law on habeas review must be "clearly established" by
this Court alone. See supra, at 381-382. It would thus seem somewhat

perverse to ascribe to Congress the entirely inconsistent policy of perpetuating disparate readings of our decisions under the guise of deference to
anything within a conceivable spectrum of reasonableness.

Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)
Opinion of the Court

reasonableness." Id., at 688. To establish prejudice he
"must show that there is a reasonable probability that, but
for counsel's unprofessional errors, the result of the proceeding would have been different. A reasonable probability is
a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome." Id., at 694.
It is past question that the rule set forth in Strickland
qualifies as "clearly established Federal law, as determined
by the Supreme Court of the United States." That the
Strickland test "of necessity requires a case-by-case examination of the evidence," Wright, 505 U. S., at 308 (KENNEDY,
J., concurring in judgment), obviates neither the clarity of
the rule nor the extent to which the rule must be seen as
"established" by this Court. This Court's precedent "dictated" that the Virginia Supreme Court apply the Strickland
test at the time that court entertained Williams' ineffectiveassistance claim. Teague, 489 U. S., at 301. And it can
hardly be said that recognizing the right to effective counsel
"breaks new ground or imposes a new obligation on the
States," ibid. Williams is therefore entitled to relief if the
Virginia Supreme Court's decision rejecting his ineffectiveassistance claim was either "contrary to, or involved an
unreasonable application of," that established law. It was
both.
IV
The Virginia Supreme Court erred in holding that our decision in Lockhart v. Fretwell, 506 U. S.364 (1993), modified
or in some way supplanted the rule set down in Strickland.
It is true that while the Strickland test provides sufficient
guidance for resolving virtually all ineffective-assistance-ofcounsel claims, there are situations in which the overriding
focus on fundamental fairness may affect the analysis.
Thus, on the one hand, as Strickland itself explained, there
are a few situations in which prejudice may be presumed.
466 U. S., at 692. And, on the other hand, there are also
situations in which it would be unjust to characterize the

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR

Opinion of the Court

likelihood of a different outcome as legitimate "prejudice."
Even if a defendant's false testimony might have persuaded
the jury to acquit him, it is not fundamentally unfair to conclude that he was not prejudiced by counsel's interference
with his intended perjury. Nix v. Whiteside, 475 U. S. 157,
175-176 (1986).
Similarly, in Lockhart, we concluded that, given the overriding interest in fundamental fairness, the likelihood of a
different outcome attributable to an incorrect interpretation
of the law should be regarded as a potential "windfall" to the
defendant rather than the legitimate "prejudice" contemplated by our opinion in Strickland. The death sentence
that Arkansas had imposed on Bobby Ray Fretwell was
based on an aggravating circumstance (murder committed
for pecuniary gain) that duplicated an element of the underlying felony (murder in the course of a robbery). Shortly
before the trial, the United States Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit had held that such "double counting" was impermissible, see Collins v. Lockhart, 754 F. 2d 258, 265
(1985), but Fretwell's lawyer (presumably because he was
unaware of the Collins decision) failed to object to the use
of the pecuniary gain aggravator. Before Fretwell's claim
for federal habeas corpus relief reached this Court, the Collins case was overruled.16 Accordingly, even though the Arkansas trial judge probably would have sustained a timely
objection to the double counting, it had become clear that
the State had a right to rely on the disputed aggravating circumstance. Because the ineffectiveness of Fretwell's
counsel had not deprived him of any substantive or procedural right to which the law entitled him, we held that his
"6In Lowenfield v. Phelps, 484 U. S. 231 (1988), we held that an aggravating circumstance may duplicate an element of the capital offense if the
class of death-eligible defendants is sufficiently narrowed by the definition
of the offense itself. In Perry v. Lockhart, 871 F. 2d 1384 (1989), the
Eighth Circuit correctly decided that our decision in Lowenfield required
it to overrule Collins.

Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)
Opinion of the Court

claim did not satisfy the "prejudice" component of the Strick17
land test.
Cases such as Nix v. Whiteside, 475 U. S. 157 (1986), and
Lockhart v. Fretwell, 506 U. S. 364 (1993), do not justify a
departure from a straightforward application of Strickland
when the ineffectiveness of counsel does deprive the defendant of a substantive or procedural right to which the law
entitles him.18 In the instant case, it is undisputed that
Williams had a right-indeed, a constitutionally protected
right-to provide the jury with the mitigating evidence that
his trial counsel either failed to discover or failed to offer.
Nevertheless, the Virginia Supreme Court read our decision in Lockhart to require a separate inquiry into fundamental fairness even when Williams is able to show that his lawyer was ineffective and that his ineffectiveness probably
affected the outcome of the proceeding. It wrote:
7

"But the 'prejudice' component of the Strickland test does not implicate these concerns. It focuses on the question whether counsel's deficient performance renders the result of the trial unreliable or the proceeding fundamentally unfair. [466 U. S., at 687]; see Kimmelman, 477 U. S.,
at 393 (Powell, J., concurring). Unreliability or unfairness does not result
if the ineffectiveness of counsel does not deprive the defendant of any
substantive or procedural right to which the law entitles him. As we
have noted, it was the premise of our grant in this case that Perry was
correctly decided, i. e., that respondent was not entitled to an objection
based on 'double counting.' Respondent therefore suffered no prejudice
from his counsel's deficient performance." Lockhart v. Fretwell,506 U. S.
364, 372 (1993).
18In her concurring opinion in Lockhart, JusTIcE O'CONNOR stressed
this precise point. "I write separately only to point out that today's decision will, in the vast majority of cases, have no effect on the prejudice
inquiry under Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668 (1984). The determinative question-whether there is 'a reasonable probability that, but for
counsel's unprofessional errors, the result of the proceeding would have
been different,' id., at 694-remains unchanged. This case, however, concerns the unusual circumstance where the defendant attempts to demonstrate prejudice based on considerations that, as a matter of law, ought
not inform the inquiry." Id., at 373.

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR
Opinion of the Court

"'The prisoner argues there 'is a "reasonable probability" that at least one juror would have been moved to
spare Petitioner's life had he heard' the mitigation evidence developed at the habeas hearing that was not presented at the trial. Summarizing, he contends there 'is
a "reasonable probability" that had at least one juror
heard any of this evidence-let alone all of this evidence-the outcome of this case would have been
different.'
"We reject these contentions. The prisoner's discussion flies in the face of the Supreme Court's admonition
in Lockhart, supra, that 'an analysis focusing solely on
mere outcome determination, without attention to
whether the result of the proceeding was fundamentally
unfair or unreliable, is defective."' 254 Va., at 25, 487
S. E. 2d, at 199.
Unlike the Virginia Supreme Court, the state trial judge
omitted any reference to Lockhart and simply relied on our
opinion in Strickland as stating the correct standard for
judging ineffective-assistance claims. With respect to the
prejudice component, he wrote:
"Even if a Petitioner shows that counsel's performance was deficient, however, he must also show prejudice. Petitioner must show 'that there is a reasonable
probability that but for counsel's unprofessional errors,
the result ...

would have been different.'

Strickland,

466 U. S. at 694. 'A reasonable probability is a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome.'
Id. Indeed, it is insufficient to show only that the errors had some conceivable effect on the outcome of the
proceeding, because virtually every act or omission of
counsel would meet that test. Id. at 693. The petitioner bears the 'highly demanding' and 'heavy burden'
in establishing actual prejudice." App. 417.

Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)
Opinion of the Court

The trial judge analyzed the ineffective-assistance claim
under the correct standard; the Virginia Supreme Court
did not.
We are likewise persuaded that the Virginia trial judge
correctly applied both components of that standard to Williams' ineffectiveness claim. Although he concluded that
counsel competently handled the guilt phase of the trial, he
found that their representation during the sentencing phase
fell short of professional standards-a judgment barely disputed by the State in its brief to this Court. The record
establishes that counsel did not begin to prepare for that
phase of the proceeding until a week before the trial. Id.,
at 207, 227. They failed to conduct an investigation that
would have uncovered extensive records graphically describing Williams' nightmarish childhood, not because of any strategic calculation but because they incorrectly thought that
state law barred access to such records. Had they done so,
the jury would have learned that Williams' parents had been
imprisoned for the criminal neglect of Williams and his siblings,19 that Williams had been severely and repeatedly
beaten by his father, that he had been committed to the custody of the social services bureau for two years during his
parents' incarceration (including one stint in an abusive foster home), and then, after his parents were released from
prison, had been returned to his parents' custody.
19Juvenile records contained the following description of his home:
"The home was a complete wreck.... There were several places on the
floor where someone had had a bowel movement. Urine was standing in
several places in the bedrooms. There were dirty dishes scattered over
the kitchen, and it was impossible to step any place on the kitchen floor
The children were all dirty and none of
where there was no trash ....
them had on under-pants. Noah and Lula were so intoxicated, they could
not find any clothes for the children, nor were they able to put the clothes
on them. . . . The children had to be put in Winslow Hospital, as four
of them, by that time, were definitely under the influence of whiskey."
App. 528-529.

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR

Opinion of the Court

Counsel failed to introduce available evidence that Williams was "borderline mentally retarded" and did not advance beyond sixth grade in school. Id., at 595. They
failed to seek prison records recording Williams' commendations for helping to crack a prison drug ring and for returning a guard's missing wallet, or the testimony of prison officials who described Williams as among the inmates "least
likely to act in a violent, dangerous or provocative way."
Id., at 569, 588. Counsel failed even to return the phone call
of a certified public accountant who had offered to testify
that he had visited Williams frequently when Williams was
incarcerated as part of a prison ministry program, that Williams "seemed to thrive in a more regimented and structured
environment," and that Williams was proud of the carpentry
degree he earned while in prison. Id., at 563-566.
Of course, not all of the additional evidence was favorable
to Williams. The juvenile records revealed that he had been
thrice committed to the juvenile system-for aiding and
abetting larceny when he was 11 years old, for pulling a false
fire alarm when he was 12, and for breaking and entering
when he was 15. Id., at 534-536. But as the Federal District Court correctly observed, the failure to introduce the
comparatively voluminous amount of evidence that did speak
in Williams' favor was not justified by a tactical decision to
focus on Williams' voluntary confession. Whether or not
those omissions were sufficiently prejudicial to have affected
the outcome of sentencing, they clearly demonstrate that
trial counsel did not fulfill their obligation to conduct a thorough investigation of the defendant's background. See 1
ABA Standards for Criminal Justice 4-4.1, commentary,
p. 4-55 (2d ed. 1980).
We are also persuaded, unlike the Virginia Supreme Court,
that counsel's unprofessional service prejudiced Williams
within the meaning of Strickland. After hearing the additional evidence developed in the postconviction proceedings,
the very judge who presided at Williams' trial, and who once

Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)
Opinion of the Court

determined that the death penalty was "just" and "appropriate," concluded that there existed "a reasonable probability that the result of the sentencing phase would have been
different" if the jury had heard that evidence. App. 429.
We do not agree with the Virginia Supreme Court that Judge
Ingram's conclusion should be discounted because he apparently adopted "a per se approach to the prejudice element"
that placed undue "emphasis on mere outcome determination." 254 Va., at 26-27, 487 S. E. 2d, at 200. Judge Ingram
did stress the importance of mitigation evidence in making
his "outcome determination," but it is clear that his predictive judgment rested on his assessment of the totality of the
omitted evidence rather than on the notion that a single item
of omitted evidence, no matter how trivial, would require a
new hearing.
The Virginia Supreme Court's own analysis of prejudice
reaching the contrary conclusion was thus unreasonable in
at least two respects. First, as we have already explained,
the State Supreme Court mischaracterized at best the appropriate rule, made clear by this Court in Strickland, for determining whether counsel's assistance was effective within
the meaning of the Constitution. While it may also have
conducted an "outcome determinative" analysis of its own,
254 Va., at 27, 487 S. E. 2d, at 200, it is evident to us that the
court's decision turned on its erroneous view that a "mere"
difference in outcome is not sufficient to establish constitutionally ineffective assistance of counsel. See supra, at 394.
Its analysis in this respect was thus not only "contrary to,"
but also, inasmuch as the Virginia Supreme Court relied on
the inapplicable exception recognized in Lockhart, an "unreasonable application of" the clear law as established by
this Court.
Second, the State Supreme Court's prejudice determination was unreasonable insofar as it failed to evaluate the
totality of the available mitigation evidence-both that
adduced at trial, and the evidence adduced in the habeas pro-

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR

Opinion of STEVENS, J.

ceeding-in reweighing it against the evidence in aggravation. See Clemons v. Mississippi, 494 U. S. 738, 751-752
(1990). This error is apparent in its consideration of the additional mitigation evidence developed in the postconviction
proceedings. The court correctly found that as to "the
factual part of the mixed question," there was "really...
n[o] ...

dispute" that available mitigation evidence was not

presented at trial. 254 Va., at 24, 487 S. E. 2d, at 198. As
to the prejudice determination comprising the "legal part" of
its analysis, id., at 23-25,487 S. E. 2d, at 198-199, it correctly
emphasized the strength of the prosecution evidence supporting the future dangerousness aggravating circumstance.
But the state court failed even to mention the sole argument in mitigation that trial counsel did advance-Williams
turned himself in, alerting police to a crime they otherwise
would never have discovered, expressing remorse for his actions, and cooperating with the police after that. While
this, coupled with the prison records and guard testimony,
may not have overcome a finding of future dangerousness,
the graphic description of Williams' childhood, filled with
abuse and privation, or the reality that he was "borderline
mentally retarded," might well have influenced the jury's appraisal of his moral culpability. See Boyde v. California,
494 U. S. 370, 387 (1990). The circumstances recited in his
several confessions are consistent with the view that in each
case his violent behavior was a compulsive reaction rather
than the product of cold-blooded premeditation. Mitigating
evidence unrelated to dangerousness may alter the jury's selection of penalty, even if it does not undermine or rebut the
prosecution's death-eligibility case. The Virginia Supreme
Court did not entertain that possibility. It thus failed to
accord appropriate weight to the body of mitigation evidence
available to trial counsel.
V
In our judgment, the state trial judge was correct both in
his recognition of the established legal standard for deter-

Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)
Opinion of O'CONNOR, J.

mining counsel's effectiveness, and in his conclusion that the
entire postconviction record, viewed as a whole and cumulative of mitigation evidence presented originally, raised "a
reasonable probability that the result of the sentencing proceeding would have been different" if competent counsel had
presented and explained the significance of all the available
evidence. It follows that the Virginia Supreme Court
rendered a "decision that was contrary to, or involved an
unreasonable application of, clearly established Federal law."
Williams' constitutional right to the effective assistance of
counsel as defined in Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668
(1984), was violated.
Accordingly, the judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE O'CONNOR delivered the opinion of the Court
with respect to Part II (except as to the footnote), concurred
in part, and concurred in the judgment.*
In 1996, Congress enacted the. Antiterrorism and Effective
Death Penalty Act (AEDPA). In that Act, Congress placed
a new restriction on the power of federal courts to grant
writs of habeas corpus to state prisoners. The relevant provision, 28 U. S. C. § 2254(d)(1) (1994 ed., Supp. III), prohibits
a federal court from granting an application for a writ of
habeas corpus with respect to a claim adjudicated on the
merits in state court unless that adjudication "resulted in a
decision that was contrary to, or involved an unreasonable
application of, clearly established Federal law, as determined
by the Supreme Court of the United States." The Court
holds today that the Virginia Supreme Court's adjudication
*JUSTICE KENNEDY joins this opinion in its entirety. THE CHIEF
JUSTICE and JUSTICE THOMAS join this opinion with respect to Part II.
JUSTICE SCALIA joins this opinion with respect to Part II, except as to

the footnote, infra, at 408.

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR
Opinion of

O'CONNOR,

J.

of Terry Williams' application for state habeas corpus relief
resulted in just such a decision. I agree with that determination and join Parts I, III, and IV of the Court's opinion.
Because I disagree, however, with the interpretation of
§ 2254(d)(1) set forth in Part II of JUSTICE STEVENS' opinion,
I write separately to explain my views.
I
Before 1996, this Court held that a federal court entertaining a state prisoner's application for habeas relief must exercise its independent judgment when deciding both questions
of constitutional law and mixed constitutional questions (i. e.,
application of constitutional law to fact). See, e.g., Miller v.
Fenton, 474 U. S. 104, 112 (1985). In other words, a federal
habeas court owed no deference to a state court's resolution
of such questions of law or mixed questions. In 1991, in the
case of Wright v. West, 502 U. S. 1021, we revisited our prior
holdings by asking the parties to address the following question in their briefs:
"In determining whether to grant a petition for writ of
habeas corpus by a person in custody pursuant to the
judgment of a state court, should a federal court give
deference to the state court's application of law to the
specific facts of the petitioner's case or should it review
the state court's determination de novo?" Ibid.
Although our ultimate decision did not turn on the answer
to that question, our several opinions did join issue on it.
See Wright v. West, 505 U. S. 277 (1992).
JUSTICE THOMAS, announcing the judgment of the Court,
acknowledged that our precedents had "treat[ed] as settled
the rule that mixed constitutional questions are 'subject to
plenary federal review' on habeas." Id., at 289 (quoting
Miller, supra, at 112). He contended, nevertheless, that
those decisions did not foreclose the Court from applying a
rule of deferential review for reasonableness in future cases.

Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)
Opinion of O'CONNOR, J.

See 505 U. S., at 287-290.

According to JUSTICE THOMAS,

the reliance of our precedents on Brown v. Allen, 344 U. S.
443 (1953), was erroneous because the Court in Brown never
explored in detail whether a federal habeas court, to deny a
state prisoner's application, must conclude that the relevant
state-court adjudication was "correct" or merely that it was
"reasonable." Wright, supra, at 287. JUSTICE THOMAS
suggested that the time to revisit our decisions may have
been at hand, given that our more recent habeas jurisprudence in the nonretroactivity context, see, e. g., Teague v.
Lane, 489 U. S. 288 (1989), had called into question the thensettled rule of independent review of mixed constitutional
questions. Wright, 505 U. S., at 291-292, 294.
I wrote separately in Wright because I believed JUSTICE
THOMAS had "understate[d] the certainty with which Brown
v. Allen rejected a deferential standard of review of issues
of law." Id., at 300. I also explained that we had considered the standard of review applicable to mixed constitutional questions on numerous occasions and each time we
concluded that federal habeas courts had a duty to evaluate
such questions independently. Id., at 301-303. With respect to JUSTICE THOMAS' suggestion that Teague and its

progeny called into question the vitality of the independentreview rule, I noted that "Teague did not establish a 'deferential' standard of review" because "[it did not establish a
standard of review at all." 505 U. S., at 303-304. While
Teague did hold that state prisoners could not receive "the
retroactive benefit of new rules of law," it "did not create
any deferential standard of review with regard to old rules."
505 U. S., at 304 (emphasis in original).
Finally, and perhaps most importantly for purposes of today's case, I stated my disagreement with JUSTICE THOMAS'

suggestion that de novo review is incompatible with the
maxim that federal habeas courts should "give great weight
to the considered conclusions of a coequal state judiciary,"
Miller, supra, at 112. Our statement in Miller signified

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR

Opinion of the Court

only that a state-court decision is due the same respect as
any other "persuasive, well-reasoned authority." Wright,
505 U. S., at 305. "But this does not mean that we have held
in the past that federal courts must presume the correctness
of a state court's legal conclusions on habeas, or that a state
court's incorrect legal determination has ever been allowed
to stand because it was reasonable. We have always held
that federal courts, even on habeas, have an independent obligation to say what the law is." Ibid. Under the federal
habeas statute as it stood in 1992, then, our precedents dictated that a federal court should grant a state prisoner's petition for habeas relief if that court were to conclude in its
independent judgment that the relevant state court had
erred on a question of constitutional law or on a mixed constitutional question.
If today's case were governed by the federal habeas statute prior to Congress' enactment of AEDPA in 1996, I would
agree with JUSTICE STEVENS that Williams' petition for habeas relief must be granted if we, in our independent judgment, were to conclude that his Sixth Amendment right to
effective assistance of counsel was violated. See ante, at 389.
II
A
Williams' case is not governed by the pre-1996 version of
the habeas statute. Because he filed his petition in December 1997, Williams' case is governed by the statute as
amended by AEDPA. Section 2254 now provides:
"(d) An application for a writ of habeas corpus on behalf of a person in custody pursuant to the judgment of
a State court shall not be granted with respect to any
claim that was adjudicated on the merits in State court
proceedings unless the adjudication of the claim"(1) resulted in a decision that was contrary to, or
involved an unreasonable application of, clearly estab-

Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)

Opinion of the Court

lished Federal law, as determined by the Supreme Court
of the United States."
Accordingly, for Williams to obtain federal habeas relief, he
must first demonstrate that his case satisfies the condition
set by §2254(d)(1). That provision modifies the role of
federal habeas courts in reviewing petitions filed by state
prisoners.
JUSTICE STEVENS' opinion in Part II essentially contends
that § 2254(d)(1) does not alter the previously settled rule
of independent review. Indeed, the opinion concludes its
statutory inquiry with the somewhat empty finding that
§2254(d)(1) does no more than express a "'mood' that the
Federal Judiciary must respect." Ante, at 386. For JUSTICE STEVENS, the congressionally enacted "mood" has two
important qualities. First, "federal courts [must] attend to
every state-court judgment with utmost care" by "carefully
weighing all the reasons for accepting a state court's judgment." Ante, at 389. Second, if a federal court undertakes
that careful review and yet remains convinced that a prisoner's custody violates the Constitution, "that independent
judgment should prevail." Ibid.
One need look no further than our decision in Miller to
see that JUSTICE STEVENS' interpretation of §2254(d)(1)
gives the 1996 amendment no effect whatsoever. The command that federal courts should now use the "utmost care"
by "carefully weighing" the reasons supporting a state
court's judgment echoes our pre-AEDPA statement in
Miller that federal habeas courts "should, of course, give
great weight to the considered conclusions of a coequal state
judiciary." 474 U. S., at 112. Similarly, the requirement
that the independent judgment of a federal court must in the
end prevail essentially repeats the conclusion we reached in
the very next sentence in Miller with respect to the specific
issue presented there: "But, as we now reaffirm, the ultimate
question whether, under the totality of the circumstances,
the challenged confession was obtained in a manner compat-

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR
Opinion of the Court

ible with the requirements of the Constitution is a matter
for independent federal determination." Ibid. (emphasis
added).
That JUSTICE STEVENS would find the new §2254(d)(1) to
have no effect on the prior law of habeas corpus is remarkable given his apparent acknowledgment that Congress
wished to bring change to the field. See ante, at 386 ("Congress wished to curb delays, to prevent 'retrials' on federal
habeas, and to give effect to state convictions to the extent
possible under law"). That acknowledgment is correct and
significant to this case. It cannot be disputed that Congress
viewed § 2254(d)(1) as an important means by which its goals
for habeas reform would be achieved.
JUSTICE STEVENS arrives at his erroneous interpretation
by means of one critical misstep. He fails to give independent meaning to both the "contrary to" and "unreasonable application" clauses of the statute. See, e. g., ante, at 384 ("We
are not persuaded that the phrases define two mutually exclusive categories of questions"). By reading §2254(d)(1) as
one general restriction on the power of the federal habeas
court, JUSTICE STEVENS

manages to avoid confronting the

specific meaning of the statute's "unreasonable application"
clause and its ramifications for the independent-review rule.
It is, however, a cardinal principle of statutory construction
that we must "'give effect, if possible, to every clause and
word of a statute."' United States v. Menasche, 348 U. S.
528, 538-539 (1955) (quoting Montclairv. Ramsdell, 107 U. S.
147, 152 (1883)). Section 2254(d)(1) defines two categories
of cases in which a state prisoner may obtain federal habeas
relief with respect to a claim adjudicated on the merits in
state court. Under the statute, a federal court may grant a
writ of habeas corpus if the relevant state-court decision was
either (1) "contrary to ...

clearly established Federal law,

as determined by the Supreme Court of the United States,"
or (2) "involved an unreasonableapplication of... clearly

Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)

Opinion of the Court

established Federal law, as determined by the Supreme
Court of the United States." (Emphases added.)
The Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit properly accorded both the "contrary to" and "unreasonable application"
clauses independent meaning. The Fourth Circuit's interpretation of §2254(d)(1) in Williams' case relied, in turn, on
that court's previous decision in Green v. French, 143 F. 3d
865 (1998), cert. denied, 525 U. S.1090 (1999). See 163 F. 3d
860, 866 (CA4 1998) ("[T]he standard of review enunciated in
Green v. French continues to be the binding law of this Circuit"). With respect to the first of the two statutory clauses,
the Fourth Circuit held in Green that a state-court decision
can be "contrary to" this Court's clearly established precedent in two ways. First, a state-court decision is contrary
to this Court's precedent if the state court arrives at a conclusion opposite to that reached by this Court on a question
of law. Second, a state-court decision is also contrary to this
Court's precedent if the state court confronts facts that are
materially indistinguishable from a relevant Supreme Court
precedent and arrives at a result opposite to ours. See 143
F. 3d, at 869-870.
The word "contrary" is commonly understood to mean "diametrically different," "opposite in character or nature," or
"mutually opposed." Webster's Third New International
Dictionary 495 (1976). The text of §2254(d)(1) therefore
suggests that the state court's decision must be substantially
different from the relevant precedent of this Court. The
Fourth Circuit's interpretation of the "contrary to" clause
accurately reflects this textual meaning. A state-court decision will certainly be contrary to our clearly established
precedent if the state court applies a rule that contradicts
the governing law set forth in our cases. Take, for example,
our decision in Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668
(1984). If a state court were to reject a prisoner's claim
of ineffective assistance of counsel on the grounds that the

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR
Opinion of the Court

prisoner had not established by a preponderance of the evidence that the result of his criminal proceeding would have
been different, that decision would be "diametrically different," "opposite in character or nature," and "mutually opposed" to our clearly established precedent because we held
in Strickland that the prisoner need only demonstrate a
"reasonable probability that.., the result of the proceeding
would have been different." Id., at 694. A state-court decision will also be contrary to this Court's clearly established
precedent if the state court confronts a set of facts that are
materially indistinguishable from a decision of this Court and
nevertheless arrives at a result different from our precedent.
Accordingly, in either of these two scenarios, a federal court
will be unconstrained by §2254(d)(1) because the state-court
decision falls within that provision's "contrary to" clause.
On the other hand, a run-of-the-mill state-court decision
applying the correct legal rule from our cases to the facts
of a prisoner's case would not fit comfortably within
§2254(d)(1)'s "contrary to" clause. Assume, for example,
that a state-court decision on a prisoner's ineffectiveassistance claim correctly identifies Strickland as the controlling legal authority and, applying that framework, rejects the prisoner's claim. Quite clearly, the state-court
decision would be in accord with our decision in Strickland
as to the legal prerequisites for establishing an ineffectiveassistance claim, even assuming the federal court considering
the prisoner's habeas application might reach a different result applying the Strickland framework itself. It is difficult, however, to describe such a run-of-the-mill state-court
decision as "diametrically different" from, "opposite in character or nature" from, or "mutually opposed" to Strickland,
our clearly established precedent. Although the state-court
decision may be contrary to the federal court's conception of
how Strickland ought to be applied in that particular case,
the decision is not "mutually opposed" to Strickland itself.

Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
JUSTICE STEVENS would instead construe § 2254(d)(1)'s
"contrary to" clause to encompass such a routine state-court
decision. That construction, however, saps the "unreasonable application" clause of any meaning. If a federal habeas
court can, under the "contrary to" clause, issue the writ
whenever it concludes that the state court's application of
clearly established federal law was incorrect, the "unreasonable application" clause becomes a nullity. We must, however, if possible, give meaning to every clause of the statute.
JUSTICE STEVENS not only makes no attempt to do so, but
also construes the "contrary to" clause in a manner that ensures that the "unreasonable application" clause will have no
independent meaning. See ante, at 385-386, 388-390. We
reject that expansive interpretation of the statute. Reading §2254(d)(1)'s "contrary to" clause to permit a federal
court to grant relief in cases where a state court's error is
limited to the manner in which it applies Supreme Court
precedent is suspect given the logical and natural fit of the
neighboring "unreasonable application" clause to such cases.
The Fourth Circuit's interpretation of the "unreasonable
application" clause of § 2254(d)(1) is generally correct. That
court held in Green that a state-court decision can involve an
"unreasonable application" of this Court's clearly established
precedent in two ways. First, a state-court decision involves an unreasonable application of this Court's precedent
if the state court identifies the correct governing legal rule
from this Court's cases but unreasonably applies it to the
facts of the particular state prisoner's case. Second, a
state-court decision also involves an unreasonable application of this Court's precedent if the state court either unreasonably extends a legal principle from our precedent to a
new context where it should not apply or unreasonably refuses to extend that principle to a new context where it
should apply. See 143 F. 3d, at 869-870.
A state-court decision that correctly identifies the governing legal rule but applies it unreasonably to the facts of a

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR

Opinion of the Court

particular prisoner's case certainly would qualify as a decision "involv[ing] an unreasonable application of... clearly
established Federal law." Indeed, we used the almost identical phrase "application of law" to describe a state court's
application of law to fact in the certiorari question we posed
to the parties in Wright.*
The Fourth Circuit also held in Green that state-court decisions that unreasonably extend a legal principle from our
precedent to a new context where it should not apply (or
unreasonably refuse to extend a legal principle to a new
context where it should apply) should be analyzed under
§2254(d)(1)'s "unreasonable application" clause. See 143
F. 3d, at 869-870. Although that holding may perhaps be
correct, the classification does have some problems of precision. Just as it is sometimes difficult to distinguish a mixed
question of law and fact from a question of fact, it will often
be difficult to identify separately those state-court decisions
that involve an unreasonable application of a legal principle
(or an unreasonable failure to apply a legal principle) to a
new context. Indeed, on the one hand, in some cases it will
be hard to distinguish a decision involving an unreasonable
extension of a legal principle from a decision involving an
unreasonable application of law to facts. On the other hand,
in many of the same cases it will also be difficult to distinguish a decision involving an unreasonable extension of a
legal principle from a decision that "arrives at a conclusion
opposite to that reached by this Court on a question of law,"
supra,at 405. Today's case does not require us to decide how
*The legislative history of §2254(d)(1) also supports this interpretation.
See, e. g., 142 Cong. Rec. 7799 (1996) (remarks of Sen. Specter) ("[U]nder
the bill deference will be owed to State courts' decisions on the application
of Federal law to the facts. Unless it is unreasonable, a State court's
decision applying the law to the facts will be upheld"); 141 Cong. Rec.
14666 (1995) (remarks of Sen. Hatch) ("[W]e allow a Federal court to overturn a State court decision only if it is contrary to clearly established
Federal law or if it involves an 'unreasonable application' of clearly established Federal law to the facts").

Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)
Opinion of the Court

such "extension of legal principle" cases should be treated
under §2254(d)(1). For now it is sufficient to hold that when
a state-court decision unreasonably applies the law of this
Court to the facts of a prisoner's case, a federal court applying §2254(d)(1) may conclude that the state-court decision
falls within that provision's "unreasonable application"
clause.
B
There remains the task of defining what exactly qualifies
as an "unreasonable application" of law under §2254(d)(1).
The Fourth Circuit held in Green that a state-court decision
involves an "unreasonable application of ... clearly estab-

lished Federal law" only if the state court has applied federal
law "in a manner that reasonable jurists would all agree is
unreasonable." 143 F. 3d, at 870. The placement of this additional overlay on the "unreasonable application" clause was
erroneous. It is difficult to fault the Fourth Circuit for
using this language given the fact that we have employed
nearly identical terminology to describe the related inquiry
undertaken by federal courts in applying the nonretroactivity rule of Teague. For example, in Lambrix v. Singletary,
520 U. S.518 (1997), we stated that a new rule is not dictated
by precedent unless it would be "apparent to all reasonable
jurists." Id., at 528 (emphasis added). In Graham v. Collins, 506 U. S. 461 (1993), another nonretroactivity case, we
employed similar language, stating that we could not say
"that all reasonablejurists would have deemed themselves
compelled to accept Graham's claim in 1984." Id., at 477
(emphasis added).
Defining an "unreasonable application" by reference to a
"reasonable jurist," however, is of little assistance to the
courts that must apply §2254(d)(1) and, in fact, may be misleading. Stated simply, a federal habeas court making the
"unreasonable application" inquiry should ask whether the
state court's application of clearly established federal law
was objectively unreasonable. The federal habeas court

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR
Opinion of the Court

should not transform the inquiry into a subjective one by
resting its determination instead on the simple fact that at
least one of the Nation's jurists has applied the relevant federal law in the same manner the state court did in the habeas
petitioner's case. The "all reasonable jurists" standard
would tend to mislead federal habeas courts by focusing their
attention on a subjective inquiry rather than on an objective
one. For example, the Fifth Circuit appears to have applied
its "reasonable jurist" standard in just such a subjective
manner. See Drinkardv. Johnson, 97 F. 3d 751, 769 (1996)
(holding that state court's application of federal law was not
unreasonable because the Fifth Circuit panel split 2-1 on the
underlying mixed constitutional question), cert. denied, 520
U. S. 1107 (1997). As I explained in Wright with respect to
the "reasonable jurist" standard in the Teague context,
"[e]ven though we have characterized the new rule inquiry
as whether 'reasonable jurists' could disagree as to whether
a result is dictated by precedent, the standard for determining when a case establishes a new rule is 'objective,' and the
mere existence of conflicting authority does not necessarily
mean a rule is new." 505 U. S., at 304 (citation omitted).
The term "unreasonable" is no doubt difficult to define.
That said, it is a common term in the legal world and, accordingly, federal judges are familiar with its meaning. For purposes of today's opinion, the most important point is that an
unreasonableapplication of federal law is different from an
incorrectapplication of federal law. Our opinions in Wright,
for example, make that difference clear. JUSTICE THOMAS'
criticism of this Court's subsequent reliance on Brown
turned on that distinction. The Court in Brown, JUSTICE
THOMAS contended, held only that a federal habeas court
must determine whether the relevant state-court adjudication resulted in a "'satisfactory conclusion."' 505 U. S., at
287 (quoting Brown, 344 U. S., at 463). In JUSTICE THOMAS'
view, Brown did not answer "the question whether a 'satisfactory' conclusion was one that the habeas court considered

Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)
Opinion of the Court

correct, as opposed to merely reasonable." 505 U. S., at 287
(emphases in original). In my separate opinion in Wright,
I made the same distinction, maintaining that "a state court's
incorrect legal determination has [never] been allowed to
stand because it was reasonable. We have always held that
federal courts, even on habeas, have an independent obligation to say what the law is." Id., at 305 (emphases added).
In §2254(d)(1), Congress specifically used the word "unreasonable," and not a term like "erroneous" or "incorrect."
Under §2254(d)(1)'s "unreasonable application" clause, then,
a federal habeas court may not issue the writ simply because
that court concludes in its independent judgment that the
relevant state-court decision applied clearly established federal law erroneously or incorrectly. Rather, that application
must also be unreasonable.
JUSTICE STEVENS turns a blind eye to the debate in
Wright because he finds no indication in §2254(d)(1) itself
that Congress was "directly influenced" by JUSTICE THOMAS'
opinion in Wright. Ante, at 387-388, n. 14. As JUSTICE
STEVENS himself apparently recognizes, however, Congress

need not mention a prior decision of this Court by name in
a statute's text in order to adopt either a rule or a meaning
given a certain term in that decision. See ante, at 380, n. 11.
In any event, whether Congress intended to codify the standard of review suggested by JUSTICE THOMAS in Wright is
beside the point. Wright is important for the light it sheds
on §2254(d)(1)'s requirement that a federal habeas court inquire into the reasonableness of a state court's application
of clearly established federal law. The separate opinions in
Wright concerned the very issue addressed by § 2254(d)(1)'s
"unreasonable application" clause-whether, in reviewing a
state-court decision on a state prisoner's claims under federal law, a federal habeas court should ask whether the
state-court decision was correct or simply whether it was
reasonable. JUSTICE STEVENS' claim that the debate in
Wright concerned only the meaning of the Teague nonretro-

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR
Opinion of the Court

activity rule is simply incorrect. See ante, at 387-388, n. 14.
As even a cursory review of JUSTICE THOMAS' opinion and
my own opinion reveals, both the broader debate and the
specific statements to which we refer, see supra, at 410-411,
concerned precisely the issue of the standard of review to be
employed by federal habeas courts. The Wright opinions
confirm what §2254(d)(1)'s language already makes clearthat an unreasonable application of federal law is different
from an incorrector erroneous application of federal law.
Throughout this discussion the meaning of the phrase
"clearly established Federal law, as determined by the Supreme Court of the United States" has been put to the side.
That statutory phrase refers to the holdings, as opposed to
the dicta, of this Court's decisions as of the time of the relevant state-court decision. In this respect, the "clearly established Federal law" phrase bears only a slight connection
to our Teague jurisprudence. With one caveat, whatever
would qualify as an old rule under our Teague jurisprudence will constitute "clearly established Federal law, as
determined by the Supreme Court of the United States"
under § 2254(d)(1). See, e.g., Stringer v. Black, 503 U.S.
222, 228 (1992) (using term "old rule"). The one caveat, as
the statutory language makes clear, is that §2254(d)(1) restricts the source of clearly established law to this Court's
jurisprudence.
In sum, § 2254(d)(1) places a new constraint on the power
of a federal habeas court to grant a state prisoner's application for a writ of habeas corpus with respect to claims adjudicated on the merits in state court. Under §2254(d)(1), the
writ may issue only if one of the following two conditions is
satisfied-the state-court adjudication resulted in a decision
that (1) "was contrary to... clearly established Federal law,
as determined by the Supreme Court of the United States,"
or (2) "involved an unreasonable application of ...

clearly

established Federal law, as determined by the Supreme
Court of the United States." Under the "contrary to"

Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)
Opinion of O'CONNOR, J.

clause, a federal habeas court may grant the writ if the state
court arrives at a conclusion opposite to that reached by this
Court on a question of law or if the state court decides a
case differently than this Court has on a set of materially
indistinguishable facts. Under the "unreasonable application" clause, a federal habeas court may grant the writ if the
state court identifies the correct governing legal principle
from this Court's decisions but unreasonably applies that
principle to the facts of the prisoner's case.
III
Although I disagree with JUSTICE STEVENS concerning
the standard we must apply under § 2254(d)(1) in evaluating
Terry Williams' claims on habeas, I agree with the Court
that the Virginia Supreme Court's adjudication of Williams'
claim of ineffective assistance of counsel resulted in a decision that was both contrary to and involved an unreasonable
application of this Court's clearly established precedent.
Specifically, I believe that the Court's discussion in Parts III
and IV is correct and that it demonstrates the reasons that
the Virginia Supreme Court's decision in Williams' case, even
under the interpretation of § 2254(d)(1) I have set forth
above, was both contrary to and involved an unreasonable
application of our precedent.
First, I agree with the Court that our decision in Strickland undoubtedly qualifies as "clearly established Federal
law, as determined by the Supreme Court of the United
States," within the meaning of §2254(d)(1). See ante, at
390-391. Second, I agree that the Virginia Supreme Court's
decision was contrary to that clearly established federal law
to the extent it held that our decision in Lockhart v. Fretwell,
506 U. S. 364 (1993), somehow modified or supplanted the
rule set forth in Strickland. See ante, at 391-395, 397.
Specifically, the Virginia Supreme Court's decision was contrary to Strickland itself, where we held that a defendant
demonstrates prejudice by showing "that there is a reason-

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR
Opinion of O'CONNOR, J.

able probability that, but for counsel's unprofessional errors,
the result of the proceeding would have been different."
466 U. S., at 694. The Virginia Supreme Court held, in contrast, that such a focus on outcome determination was insufficient standing alone. See Williams v. Warden of Mecklenburg Correctional Center, 254 Va. 16, 25, 27, 487 S.E. 2d
194, 199, 200 (1997). Lockhart does not support that broad
proposition. As I explained in my concurring opinion in
that case, "in the vast majority of cases ...[t]he determinative question-whether there is 'a reasonable probability
that, but for counsel's unprofessional errors, the result of
the proceeding would have been different'-remairis unchanged." 506 U. S., at 373 (quoting Strickland, 466 U. S.,
at 694). In his attempt to demonstrate prejudice, Williams
did not rely on any "considerations that, as a matter of law,
ought not inform the [prejudice] inquiry." Lockhart, supra,
at 373 (O'CONNOR, J., concurring). Accordingly, as the
Court ably explains, the Virginia Supreme Court's decision
was contrary to Strickland.
To be sure, as THE CHIEF JUSTICE notes, post, at 417-418
(opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part), the Virginia Supreme Court did also inquire whether Williams had
demonstrated a reasonable probability that, but for his trial
counsel's unprofessional errors, the result of his sentencing
would have been different. See 254 Va., at 25-26, 487 S.E.
2d, at 199-200. It is impossible to determine, however, the
extent to which the Virginia Supreme Court's error with respect to its reading of Lockhart affected its ultimate finding
that Williams suffered no prejudice. For example, at the
conclusion of its discussion of whether Williams had demonstrated a reasonable probability of a different outcome at
sentencing, the Virginia Supreme Court faulted the Virginia
Circuit Court for its "emphasis on mere outcome determination, without proper attention to whether the result of the
criminal proceeding was fundamentally unfair or unreliable."
254 Va., at 27, 487 S. E. 2d, at 200. As the Court explains,

Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)

Opinion of O'CONNOR, J.

however, see ante, at 393, Williams' case did not implicate
the unusual circumstances present in cases like Lockhart or
Nix v. Whiteside, 475 U. S. 157 (1986). Accordingly, for the
very reasons I set forth in my Lockhart concurrence, the
emphasis on outcome was entirely appropriate in Williams'
case.
Third, I also agree with the Court that, to the extent the
Virginia Supreme Court did apply Strickland, its application was unreasonable. See ante, at 395-398. As the Court
correctly recounts, Williams' trial counsel failed to conduct
an investigation that would have uncovered substantial
amounts of mitigation evidence. See ante, at 395-396. For
example, speaking only of that evidence concerning Williams'
"nightmarish childhood," ante, at 395, the mitigation evidence that trial counsel failed to present to the jury showed
that "Williams' parents had been imprisoned for the criminal
neglect of Williams and his siblings, that Williams had been
severely and repeatedly beaten by his father, that he had
been committed to the custody of the social services bureau
for two years during his parents' incarceration (including one
stint in an abusive foster home), and then, after his parents
were released from prison, had been returned to his parents'
custody," ibid. (footnote omitted). See also ante, at 395,
n. 19. The consequence of counsel's failure to conduct the
requisite, diligent investigation into his client's troubling
background and unique personal circumstances manifested
itself during his generic, unapologetic closing argument,
which provided the jury with no reasons to spare petitioner's
life. More generally, the Virginia Circuit Court found that
Williams' trial counsel failed to present evidence showing
that Williams "had a deprived and abused upbringing; that
he may have been a neglected and mistreated child; that he
came from an alcoholic family; .

.

. that he was borderline

mentally retarded;" and that "[his] conduct had been good
in certain structured settings in his life (such as when he
was incarcerated)." App. 422-423. In addition, the Circuit

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR
Opinion of REHNQUIST, C. J.

Court noted the existence of "friends, neighbors and family
of [Williams] who would have testified that he had redeeming
qualities." Id., at 423. Based on its consideration of all of
this evidence, the same trial judge that originally found Williams' death sentence "'justified and warranted,"' id., at 155,
concluded that trial counsel's deficient performance prejudiced Williams, id., at 424, and accordingly recommended
that Williams be granted a new sentencing hearing, ibid.
The Virginia Supreme Court's decision reveals an obvious
failure to consider the totality of the omitted mitigation evidence. See 254 Va., at 26, 487 S. E. 2d, at 200 ("At most, this
evidence would have shown that numerous people, mostly
relatives, thought that [Williams] was nonviolent and could
cope very well in a structured environment"). For that reason, and the remaining factors discussed in the Court's opinion, I believe that the Virginia Supreme Court's decision "involved an unreasonable application of... clearly established
Federal law, as determined by the Supreme Court of the
United States."
Accordingly, although I disagree with the interpretation of
§ 2254(d)(1) set forth in Part II of JUSTICE STEVENS' opinion,
I join Parts I, III, and IV of the Court's opinion and concur
in the judgment of reversal.
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

with whom JUSTICE SCALIA

and JUSTICE THOMAS join, concurring in part and dissenting
in part.
I agree with the Court's interpretation of 28 U.S. C.
§ 2254(d)(1) (1994 ed., Supp. III), see ante, at 402-413 (opinion
of O'CONNOR, J.), but disagree with its decision to grant habeas relief in this case.
There is "clearly established Federal law, as determined
by [this Court]" that governs petitioner's claim of ineffective
assistance of counsel: Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S.
668 (1984). Thus, we must determine whether the Virginia

Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)

Opinion of REHNQUIST,

C. J.

Supreme Court's adjudication was "contrary to" or an "unreasonable application of" Strickland.
Generally, in an ineffective-assistance-of-counsel case
where the state court applies Strickland, federal habeas
courts can proceed directly to "unreasonable application" review. But, according to the substance of petitioner's argument, this could be one of the rare cases where a state court
applied the wrong Supreme Court precedent, and, consequently, reached an incorrect result. Petitioner argues, and
the Court agrees, that the Virginia Supreme Court improperly held that Lockhart v. Fretwell, 506 U. S. 364 (1993),
"modified or in some way supplanted" the rule set down in
Strickland. See ante, at 391. I agree that such a holding
would be improper. But the Virginia Supreme Court did
not so hold as it did not rely on Lockhart to reach its decision.
Before delving into the evidence presented at the sentencing proceeding, the Virginia Supreme Court stated:
"We shall demonstrate that the criminal proceeding sentencing defendant to death was not fundamentally unfair
or unreliable, and that the prisoner's assertions about
the potential effects of the omitted proof do not establish
a 'reasonable probability' that the result of the proceeding would have been different, nor any probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome. Therefore, any ineffective assistance of counsel did not result
in actual prejudice to the accused." Williams v. Warden, 254 Va. 16, 25, 487 S. E. 2d 194, 199 (1997).
While the first part of this statement refers to Lockhart, the
rest of the statement is straight out of Strickland. Indeed,
after the initial allusion to Lockhart, the Virginia Supreme
Court's analysis explicitly proceeds under Strickland alone.*
*In analyzing the evidence that was presented to the sentencing jury,
the Virginia Supreme Court stated: "Drawing on Strickland,we hold that,
even assuming the challenged conduct of counsel was unreasonable, the
prisoner 'suffered insufficient prejudice to warrant setting aside his death

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR
Opinion of REHNQUIST, C. J.

See 254 Va., at 26-27, 487 S. E. 2d, at 200. Because the
Virginia Supreme Court did not rely on Lockhart to make
its decision, and, instead, appropriately relied on Strickland,
that court's adjudication was not "contrary to" this Court's
clearly established precedent.
The question then becomes whether the Virginia Supreme
Court's adjudication resulted from an "unreasonable application of" Strickland. In my view, it did not.
I, like the Virginia Supreme Court and the Federal Court
of Appeals below, will assume without deciding that counsel's
performance fell below an objective standard of reasonableness. As to the prejudice inquiry, I agree with the Court of
Appeals that evidence showing that petitioner presented a
future danger to society was overwhelming. As that court
stated:
"The murder of Mr. Stone was just one act in a crime
spree that lasted most of Williams's life. Indeed, the
jury heard evidence that, in the months following the
murder of Mr. Stone, Williams savagely beat an elderly
woman, stole two cars, set fire to a home, stabbed a man
during a robbery, set fire to the city jail, and confessed
to having strong urges to choke other inmates and to
break a fellow prisoner's jaw." 163 F. 3d 860, 868
(CA4 1998).
sentence,"' 254 Va., at 26, 487 S. E. 2d, at 200 (quoting Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668, 698-699 (1984)); "[wlhat the Supreme Court said in
Strickland applies with full force here: 'Given the overwhelming aggravating factors, there is no reasonable probability that the omitted evidence
would have changed the conclusion that the aggravating circumstances
outweighed the mitigating circumstances and, hence, the sentence im-

posed;"' 254 Va., at 26, 487 S.E. 2d, at 200 (quoting Strickland,supra, at
700); and "[Iln conclusion, employing the language of Strickland, the pris-

oner 'has made no showing that the justice of his sentence was rendered
unreliable by a breakdown in the adversary process caused by deficiencies
in counsel's assistance. [The prisoner's] sentencing proceeding was not
fundamentally unfair,"' 254 Va., at 27, 487 S.E. 2d, at 200 (quoting Strickland, supra,at 700).

Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)
Opinion of REHNQUIST,

C. J.

In Strickland, we said that both the performance and prejudice components of the ineffectiveness inquiry are mixed
questions of law and fact. 466 U. S., at 698. It is with this
kind of a question that the "unreasonable application of"
clause takes on meaning. While the determination of "prejudice" in the legal sense may be a question of law, the subsidiary inquiries are heavily factbound.
Here, there was strong evidence that petitioner would continue to be a danger to society, both in and out of prison. It
was not, therefore, unreasonable for the Virginia Supreme
Court to decide that a jury would not have been swayed by
evidence demonstrating that petitioner had a terrible childhood and a low IQ. See ante, at 395-396. The potential
mitigating evidence that may have countered the finding that
petitioner was a future danger was testimony that petitioner
was not dangerous while in detention. See ante, at 396.
But, again, it is not unreasonable to assume that the jury
would have viewed this mitigation as unconvincing upon
hearing that petitioner set fire to his cell while awaiting trial
for the murder at hand and has repeated visions of harming
other inmates.
Accordingly, I would hold that habeas relief is barred by
28 U. S. C. § 2254(d) (1994 ed., Supp. III).

OCTOBER TERM, 1999
Syllabus

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR, WARDEN
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FOURTH CIRCUIT
No. 99-6615.

Argued February 28, 2000-Decided April 18, 2000

After petitioner was convicted of two capital murders and other crimes,
he was sentenced to death. The Supreme Court of Virginia affirmed
on direct appeal and later dismissed petitioner's state habeas corpus
petition. He then sought federal habeas relief, requesting, among other
things, an evidentiary hearing on three constitutional claims, which he
had been unable to develop in the state-court proceedings. Those
claims were that (1) the prosecution had violated Brady v. Maryland,
373 U. S. 83, in failing to disclose a report of a pretrial psychiatric examination of Jeffrey Cruse, petitioner's accomplice and the Commonwealth's
main witness against petitioner; (2) the trial was rendered unfair by the
seating of a juror who at voir dire had not revealed possible sources of
bias; and (3) a prosecutor committed misconduct in failing to reveal his
knowledge of the juror's possible bias. The District Court granted an
evidentiary hearing on, inter alia, the latter two claims, but denied a
hearing on the Brady claim. Before any hearing could be held, however, the Fourth Circuit granted the Commonwealth's requests for an
emergency stay and for a writ of mandamus and prohibition, which were
based on the argument that an evidentiary hearing was prohibited by
28 U. S. C. §2254(e)(2), as amended by the Antiterrorism and Effective
Death Penalty Act of 1996 (AEDPA). On remand, the District Court
vacated its order granting an evidentiary hearing and dismissed the
petition, having determined petitioner could not satisfy §2254(e)(2)s requirements. In affirming, the Fourth Circuit agreed with petitioner's
argument that the statute would not apply if he had exercised diligence
in state court, but held, among other things, that he had not been diligent and so had "failed to develop the factual basis of [his three] claim[s]
in State court," §2254(e)(2). The court concluded that petitioner could
not satisfy the statute's conditions for excusing his failure to develop
the facts and held him barred from receiving an evidentiary hearing.
Held: Under §2254(e)(2), as amended by AEDPA, a "fail[ure] to develop"
a claim's factual basis in state-court proceedings is not established unless there is lack of diligence, or some greater fault, attributable to the
prisoner or his counsel. The statute does not bar the evidentiary hearing petitioner seeks on his juror bias and prosecutorial misconduct
claims, but bars a hearing on his Brady claim because he "failed to

Cite as: 529 U. S. 420 (2000)
Syllabus
develop" that claim's factual basis in state court and concedes his inability to satisfy the statute's further stringent conditions for excusing the
deficiency. Pp. 429-445.
(a) Petitioner filed his federal habeas petition after AEDPA's effective date, so his case is controlled by § 2254(e)(2)'s opening clause, which
specifies that "[i]f the [federal habeas] applicant has failed to develop
the factual basis of a claim in State court proceedings, the court shall
not hold an evidentiary hearing on the claim" unless the applicant makes
specified showings. Pp. 429-430.
(b) The analysis begins with the language of the statute. Although
"fail" is sometimes used in a neutral way, not importing fault or want of
diligence, this is not the sense in which the word "failed" is used in
§ 2254(e)(2). A statute's words must be given their ordinary, contemporary, common meaning, absent an indication Congress intended them to
bear some different import. E. g., Walters v. Metropolitan Ed. Enterprises, Inc., 519 U. S.202, 207. In its customary and preferred sense,
"fail" connotes some omission, fault, or negligence on the part of the
person who has failed to do something. If Congress had instead intended a "no-fault" standard, it would have had to do no more than
use, in lieu of the phrase "has failed to," the phrase "did not." This
interpretation has support in Keeney v. Tamayo-Reyes, 504 U. S. 1, 8,
whose threshold standard of diligence is codified in § 2254(e)(2)'s opening
clause. The Court's interpretation also avoids putting § 2254(e)(2) in
needless tension with § 2254(d), which authorizes habeas relief if the
prisoner developed his claim in state court and can prove the state
court's decision was "contrary to, or an unreasonable application of,
clearly established federal law, as determined by the Supreme Court of
the United States." This Court rejects the Commonwealth's arguments for a "no-fault" reading: that treating the prisoner's lack of diligence in state court as a prerequisite for application of § 2254(e)(2)
renders a nullity of §2254(e)(2)(A)(ii)'s provision requiring the prisoner to show "a factual predicate [of his claim] could not have been
previously discovered through the exercise of due diligence"; and that
anything less than a no-fault understanding of § 2254(e)(2) is contrary to
AEDPA's purpose to further comity, finality, and federalism principles.
Pp. 431-437.
(c) Petitioner did not exercise the diligence required to preserve his
claim that nondisclosure of Cruse's psychiatric report contravened
Brady. The report, which mentioned Cruse had little recollection of
the murders because he was intoxicated at the time, was prepared before petitioner was tried; yet it was not raised by petitioner until he
filed his federal habeas petition. Given evidence in the record that his
state habeas counsel knew of the report's existence and its potential

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR
Syllabus
importance, yet failed to investigate in anything but a cursory manner,
this Court is not satisfied with petitioner's explanation that, although
an investigator for his federal habeas counsel discovered the report in
Cruse's court file, his state counsel had not seen the report when he
reviewed the same file. Because this constitutes a failure to develop
the factual basis of petitioner's Brady claim in state court, this Court
must determine if the requirements in the balance of § 2254(e)(2) are
satisfied so that petitioner's failure is excused. Subparagraph (B) of
§2254(e)(2) conditions a hearing upon a showing, by clear and convincing
evidence, that no reasonable factfinder would have found petitioner
guilty of capital murder but for the alleged constitutional error. Petitioner concedes he cannot make this showing, and the case has been
presented to this Court on that premise. Accordingly, the Fourth
Circuit's judgment barring an evidentiary hearing on this claim is affirmed. Pp. 437-440.
(d) However, petitioner has met the burden of showing he was diligent in efforts to develop the facts supporting his juror bias and prosecutorial misconduct claims in state court. Those claims are based on
two questions posed by the trial judge at voir dire. First, the judge
asked prospective jurors whether any of them was related to, inter
alios, Deputy Sheriff Meinhard, who investigated the crime scene, interrogated Cruse, and later became the prosecution's first witness. Venire
member Stinnett, who had divorced Meinhard after a 17-year marriage
and four children, remained silent, thereby indicating the answer to the
question was "no." Second, the judge asked whether any prospective
juror had ever been represented by any of the attorneys in the case,
including prosecutor Woodson. Stinnett again said nothing, although
Woodson had represented her during her divorce from Meinhard.
Later, Woodson admitted he knew Stinnett and Meinhard had been married and divorced, but stated that he did not consider divorced people
to be "related" and that he had no recollection of having been involved
as a private attorney in the divorce. Stinnett's silence after the first
question could suggest to the factflnder an unwillingness to be forthcoming; this in turn could bear on her failure to disclose that Woodson
had been her attorney. Moreover, her failure to divulge material information in response to the second question was misleading as a matter
of fact because Woodson was her counsel. Coupled with Woodson's own
reticence, these omissions as a whole disclose the need for an evidentiary
hearing. This Court disagrees with the Fourth Circuit's conclusion that
petitioner's state habeas counsel should have discovered Stinnett's relationship to Meinhard and Woodson. The trial record contains no evidence which would have put a reasonable attorney on notice that Stinnett's nonresponse was a deliberate omission of material information,

Cite as: 529 U. S. 420 (2000)
Syllabus
and counsel had no reason to believe Stinnett had been married to
Meinhard or been represented by Woodson. Moreover, because state
postconviction relief was no longer available at the time the facts came
to light, it would have been futile for petitioner to return to the Virginia
courts, so that he cannot be said to have failed to develop the facts in
state court by reason of having neglected to pursue remedies available
under Virginia law. The foregoing analysis establishes cause for any
procedural default petitioner may have committed in not presenting
these claims to the Virginia courts in the first instance. Questions regarding the standard for determining the prejudice that petitioner must
establish to obtain relief on these claims can be addressed by the lower
courts during further proceedings. These courts should take due account of the District Court's earlier decision to grant an evidentiary
hearing based in part on its belief that Stinnett deliberately lied on voir
dire. Pp. 440-444.
189 F. 3d 421, affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded.
KENNEDY,

J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

John H. Blume argued the cause for petitioner. With him
on the briefs were Keir M. Weyble, Barbara L. Hartung,
by appointment of the Court, 528 U. S. 1044, and James
E. Moore.

Donald R. Curry, Senior Assistant Attorney General of
Virginia, argued the cause for respondent. With him on the
brief was Mark L. Earley, Attorney General.*
*A brief of amici curiae urging affirmance was filed for the State of
California et al. by Bill Lockyer, Attorney General of California, David P.
Druliner,Chief Assistant Attorney General, John R. Gorey, Acting Senior
Assistant Attorney General, and Donald E. De Nicola, Deputy Attorney
General, and by the Attorneys General for their respective States as follows: Bill Pryor of Alabama, Janet Napolitano of Arizona, Mark Pryor of
Arkansas, M. Jane Brady of Delaware, Robert A. Butterworth of Florida,
Thurbert E. Baker of Georgia, James E. Ryan of Illinois, Jeffrey A Modisett of Indiana, J Joseph Curran,Jr., of Maryland, Thomas F. Reilly of
Massachusetts, Jeremiah W. (Jay) Nixon of Missouri, Joseph P Mazurek
of Montana, Don Stenberg of Nebraska, Frankie Sue Del Papa of Nevada, Michael F Easley of North Carolina, W. A. Drew Edmondson of
Oklahoma, Hardy Myers of Oregon, D, Michael Fisher of Pennsylvania,
Charles M. Condon of South Carolina, Mark Barnett of South Dakota,

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR

Opinion of the Court

delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioner Michael Wayne Williams received a capital sentence for the murders of Morris Keller, Jr., and Keller's wife,
Mary Elizabeth. Petitioner later sought a writ of habeas
corpus in federal court. Accompanying his petition was a
request for an evidentiary hearing on constitutional claims
which, he alleged, he had been unable to develop in statecourt proceedings. The question in this case is whether 28
U. S. C. § 2254(e)(2) (1994 ed., Supp. III), as amended by the
Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996
(AEDPA), 110 Stat. 1214, bars the evidentiary hearing petitioner seeks. If petitioner "has failed to develop the factual
basis of [his] claim[s] in State court proceedings," his case is
subject to §2254(e)(2), and he may not receive a hearing because he concedes his inability to satisfy the statute's further
stringent conditions for excusing the deficiency.
JUSTICE KENNEDY

I
On the evening of February 27, 1993, Verena Lozano James
dropped off petitioner and his friend Jeffrey Alan Cruse near
a local store in a rural area of Cumberland County, Virginia.
The pair planned to rob the store's employees and customers
using a .357 revolver petitioner had stolen in the course of
a quadruple murder and robbery he had committed two
months earlier. Finding the store closed, petitioner and
Cruse walked to the Kellers' home. Petitioner was familiar
with the couple, having grown up down the road from where
they lived. He told Cruse they would have "a couple thousand dollars." App. 78. Cruse, who had been holding the
.357, handed the gun to petitioner and knocked on the door.
When Mr. Keller opened the door, petitioner pointed the gun
at him as the two intruders forced their way inside. Petitioner and Cruse forced Mr. Keller to the kitchen, where
John Cornyn of Texas, Jan Graham of Utah, and Christine 0. Gregoire

of Washington.

Cite as: 529 U. S. 420 (2000)
Opinion of the Court

they discovered Mrs. Keller. Petitioner ordered the captives to remove their clothing. While petitioner kept guard
on the Kellers, Cruse searched the house for money and
other valuables. He found a .38-caliber handgun and bullets. Upon Cruse's return to the kitchen, petitioner had
Cruse tie their captives with telephone cords. The Kellers
were confined to separate closets while the intruders continued ransacking the house.
When they gathered all they wanted, petitioner and Cruse
decided to rape Mrs. Keller. With Mrs. Keller pleading with
them not to hurt her or her husband, petitioner raped her.
Cruse did the same. Petitioner then ordered the Kellers to
shower and dress and "take a walk" with him and Cruse.
Id., at 97. As they were leaving, petitioner told Mrs. Keller
he and Cruse were going to burn down the house. Mrs. Keller begged to be allowed to retrieve her marriage license,
which she did, guarded by petitioner.
As the prosecution later presented the case, details of the
murders were as follows. Petitioner, now carrying the .38,
and Cruse, carrying the .357, took the Kellers to a thicket
down a dirt road from the house. With petitioner standing
behind Mr. Keller and Cruse behind Mrs. Keller, petitioner
told Cruse, "We'll shoot at the count of three." Id., at 103.
At the third count, petitioner shot Mr. Keller in the head,
and Mr. Keller collapsed to the ground. Cruse did not shoot
Mrs. Keller at the same moment. Saying "he didn't want to
leave no witnesses," petitioner urged Cruse to shoot Mrs.
Keller. Ibid. Cruse fired one shot into her head. Despite
his wound, Mr. Keller stood up, but petitioner shot him a
second time. To ensure the Kellers were dead, petitioner
shot each of them two or three more times.
After returning to the house and loading the stolen property into the Kellers' jeep, petitioner and Cruse set fire to
the house and drove the jeep to Fredericksburg, Virginia,
where they sold some of the property. They threw the re-

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR

Opinion of the Court

maining property and the .357 revolver into the Rappahannock River and set fire to the jeep.
Pursuing a lead from Verena James, the police interviewed
Cruse about the fire at the Kellers' home. Petitioner had
fled to Florida. Cruse provided no useful information until
the police discovered the bodies of the victims, at which point
Cruse consulted counsel. In a plea bargain Cruse agreed to
disclose the details of the crimes in exchange for the Commonwealth's promise not to seek the death penalty against
him. Cruse described the murders but made no mention of
his own act of rape. When the Commonwealth discovered
the omission, it revoked the plea agreement and charged
Cruse with capital murder.
Petitioner was arrested and charged with robbery, abduction, rape, and the capital murders of the Kellers. At trial
in January 1994, Cruse was the Commonwealth's main witness. He recounted the murders as we have just described.
Cruse testified petitioner raped Mrs. Keller, shot Mr. Keller
at least twice, and shot Mrs. Keller several times after she
had been felled by Cruse's bullet. He also described petitioner as the mastermind of the murders. The circumstances of the first plea agreement between the Commonwealth and Cruse and its revocation were disclosed to the
jury. Id., at 158-159. Testifying on his own behalf, petitioner admitted he was the first to shoot Mr. Keller and it
was his idea to rob the store and set fire to the house. He
denied, however, raping or shooting Mrs. Keller, and claimed
to have shot Mr. Keller only once. Petitioner blamed Cruse
for the remaining shots and disputed some other parts of
Cruse's testimony.
The jury convicted petitioner on all counts. After considering the aggravating and mitigating evidence presented
during the sentencing phase, the jury found the aggravating
circumstances of future dangerousness and vileness of the
crimes and recommended a death sentence. The trial court
imposed the recommended sentence. The Supreme Court

Cite as: 529 U. S. 420 (2000)

Opinion of the Court

of Virginia affirmed petitioner's convictions and sentence,
Williams v. Commonwealth, 248 Va. 528, 450 S. E. 2d 365
(1994), and we denied certiorari, Williams v. Virginia, 515
U. S. 1161 (1995). In a separate proceeding, Cruse pleaded
guilty to the capital murder of Mrs. Keller and the firstdegree murder of Mr. Keller. After the prosecution asked
the sentencing court to spare his life because of his testimony against petitioner, Cruse was sentenced to life
imprisonment.
Petitioner filed a habeas petition in state court alleging, in
relevant part, that the Commonwealth failed to disclose a
second agreement it had reached with Cruse after the first
one was revoked. The new agreement, petitioner alleged,
was an informal undertaking by the prosecution to recommend a life sentence in exchange for Cruse's testimony.
Finding no merit to petitioner's claims, the Virginia Supreme
Court dismissed the habeas petition, and we again denied
certiorari. Williams v. Netherland,519 U. S. 877 (1996).
Petitioner filed a habeas petition in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia on November
20, 1996. In addition to his claim regarding the alleged undisclosed agreement between the Commonwealth and Cruse,
the petition raised three claims relevant to questions now
before us. First, petitioner claimed the prosecution had violated Brady v. Maryland, 373 U. S. 83 (1963), in failing to
disclose a report of a confidential pretrial psychiatric examination of Cruse. Second, petitioner alleged his trial was
rendered unfair by the seating of a juror who at voir dire
had not revealed possible sources of bias. Finally, petitioner
alleged one of the prosecutors committed misconduct in failing to reveal his knowledge of the juror's possible bias.
The District Court granted an evidentiary hearing on the
undisclosed agreement and the allegations of juror bias and
prosecutorial misconduct but denied a hearing on the psychiatric report. Before the evidentiary hearing could be held,
the Commonwealth filed an application for an emergency

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR
Opinion of the Court

stay and a petition for a writ of mandamus and prohibition
in the Court of Appeals. The Commonwealth argued that
petitioner's evidentiary hearing was prohibited by 28 U. S. C.
§2254(e)(2) (1994 ed., Supp. III). A divided panel of the
Court of Appeals granted the emergency stay and remanded
for the District Court to apply the statute to petitioner's
request for an evidentiary hearing. On remand, the District
Court vacated its order granting an evidentiary hearing and
dismissed the petition, having determined petitioner could
not satisfy §2254(e)(2)'s requirements.
The Court of Appeals affirmed. It first considered petitioner's argument that §2254(e)(2) did not apply to his case
because he had been diligent in attempting to develop his
claims in state court. Citing its decision in Cardwell v.
Greene, 152 F. 3d 331 (CA4), cert. denied, 525 U. S. 1037
(1998), the Court of Appeals agreed with petitioner that
§ 2254(e)(2) would not apply if he had exercised diligence in
state court. The court held, however, that petitioner had
not been diligent and so had "failed to develop" in state court
the factual bases of his Brady, juror bias, and prosecutorial
misconduct claims. See 189 F. 3d 421, 426 (CA4 1999). The
Court of Appeals concluded petitioner could not satisfy the
statute's conditions for excusing his failure to develop
the facts and held him barred from receiving an evidentiary
hearing. The Court of Appeals ruled in the alternative that,
even if §2254(e)(2) did not apply, petitioner would be ineligible for an evidentiary hearing under the cause and prejudice
standard of pre-AEDPA law. See id., at 428.
Addressing petitioner's claim of an undisclosed informal
agreement between the Commonwealth and Cruse, the
Court of Appeals rejected it on the merits under 28 U. S. C.
§2254(d)(1) and, as a result, did not consider whether
§2254(e)(2) applied. See 189 F. 3d, at 429.
On October 18, 1999, petitioner filed an application for stay
of execution and a petition for a writ of certiorari. On Octo-

Cite as: 529 U. S. 420 (2000)
Opinion of the Court

ber 28, we stayed petitioner's execution and granted certiorari to decide whether §2254(e)(2) precludes him from receiving an evidentiary hearing on his claims. See 528 U. S. 960
(1999). We now affirm in part and reverse in part.
II
A
Petitioner filed his federal habeas petition after AEDPA's
effective date, so the statute applies to his case. See Lindh
v. Murphy, 521 U. S. 320, 326-327 (1997). The Commonwealth argues AEDPA bars petitioner from receiving an
evidentiary hearing on any claim whose factual basis was
not developed in state court, absent narrow circumstances
not applicable here. Petitioner did not develop, or raise, his
claims of juror bias, prosecutorial misconduct, or the prosecution's alleged Brady violation regarding Cruse's psychiatric report until he filed his federal habeas petition. Petitioner explains he could not have developed the claims
earlier because he was unaware, through no fault of his own,
of the underlying facts. As a consequence, petitioner contends, AEDPA erects no barrier to an evidentiary hearing
in federal court.
Section 2254(e)(2), the provision which controls whether
petitioner may receive an evidentiary hearing in federal
district court on the claims that were not developed in the
Virginia courts, becomes the central point of our analysis.
It provides as follows:
"If the applicant has failed to develop the factual basis
of a claim in State court proceedings, the court shall
not hold an evidentiary hearing on the claim unless the
applicant shows that"(A) the claim relies on"(i) a new rule of constitutional law, made retroactive
to cases on collateral review by the Supreme Court, that
was previously unavailable; or

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR
Opinion of the Court

"(ii) a factual predicate that could not have been previously discovered through the exercise of due diligence; and
"(B) the facts underlying the claim would be sufficient
to establish by clear and convincing evidence that but
for constitutional error, no reasonable factfinder would
have found the applicant guilty of the underlying
offense."
By the terms of its opening clause the statute applies only
to prisoners who have "failed to develop the factual basis of
a claim in State court proceedings." If the prisoner has
failed to develop the facts, an evidentiary hearing calinot be
granted unless the prisoner's case meets the other conditions
of § 2254(e)(2). Here, petitioner concedes his case does not
comply with §2254(e)(2)(B), see Brief for Petitioner 25, so he
may receive an evidentiary hearing only if his claims fall outside the opening clause.
There was no hearing in state court on any of the claims
for which petitioner now seeks an evidentiary hearing.
That, says the Commonwealth, is the end of the matter. In
its view petitioner, whether or not through his own fault or
neglect, still "failed to develop the factual basis of a claim in
State court proceedings." Petitioner, on the other hand,
says the phrase "failed to develop" means lack of diligence in
developing the claims, a defalcation he contends did not occur
since he made adequate efforts during state-court proceedings to discover and present the underlying facts. The
Court of Appeals agreed with petitioner's interpretation of
§ 2254(e)(2) but believed petitioner had not exercised enough
diligence to avoid the statutory bar. See 189 F. 3d, at 426.
We agree with petitioner and the Court of Appeals that
"failed to develop" implies some lack of diligence; but, unlike
the Court of Appeals, we find no lack of diligence on petitioner's part with regard to two of his three claims.

Cite as: 529 U. S. 420 (2000)
Opinion of the Court

B
We start, as always, with the language of the statute. See
United States v. Ron Pair Enterprises, Inc., 489 U. S. 235,
241 (1989). Section 2254(e)(2) begins with a conditional
clause, "[i]f the applicant has failed to develop the factual
basis of a claim in State court proceedings," which directs
attention to the prisoner's efforts in state court. We ask
first whether the factual basis was indeed developed in state
court, a question susceptible, in the normal course, of a simple yes or no answer. Here the answer is no.
The Commonwealth would have the analysis begin and
end there. Under its no-fault reading of the statute, if there
is no factual development in the state court, the federal habeas court may not inquire into the reasons for the default
when determining whether the opening clause of § 2254(e)(2)
applies. We do not agree with the Commonwealth's interpretation of the word "failed."
We do not deny "fail" is sometimes used in a neutral way,
not importing fault or want of diligence. So the phrase "We
fail to understand his argument" can mean simply "We cannot understand his argument." This is not the sense in
which the word "failed" is used here, however.
We give the words of a statute their "'ordinary, contemporary, common meaning,"' absent an indication Congress intended them to bear some different import. Walters v. Metropolitan Ed. Enterprises, Inc., 519 U. S. 202, 207 (1997)
(quoting Pioneer Investment Services Co. v. Brunswick Associates Ltd. Partnership,507 U. S. 380 (1993)). See also
Bailey v. United States, 516 U. S. 137, 141 (1995). In its customary and preferred sense, "fail" connotes some omission,
fault, or negligence on the part of the person who has failed
to do something. See, e. g., Webster's New International
Dictionary 910 (2d ed. 1939) (defining "fail" as "to be wanting; to fall short; to be or become deficient in any measure
or degree," and "failure" as "a falling short," "a deficiency or

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR
Opinion of the Court

lack," and an "[o]mission to perform"); Webster's New International Dictionary 814 (3d ed. 1993) ("to leave some possible

or expected action unperformed or some condition unachieved"). See also Black's Law Dictionary 594 (6th ed.
1990) (defining "fail" as "[flault, negligence, or refusal"). To
say a person has failed in a duty implies he did not take the
necessary steps to fulfill it. He is, as a consequence, at fault
and bears responsibility for the failure. In this sense, a person is not at fault when his diligent efforts to perform an act
are thwarted, for example, by the conduct of another or by
happenstance. Fault lies, in those circumstances, either
with the person who interfered with the accomplishment of
the act or with no one at all. We conclude Congress used
the word "failed" in the sense just described. Had Congress
intended a no-fault standard, it would have had no difficulty
in making its intent plain. It would have had to do no more
than use, in lieu of the phrase "has failed to," the phrase
"did not."
Under the opening clause of § 2254(e)(2), a failure to develop the factual basis of a claim is not established unless
there is lack of diligence, or some greater fault, attributable
to the prisoner or the prisoner's counsel. In this we agree
with the Court of Appeals and with all other courts of
appeals which have addressed the issue. See, e. g., Baja v.
Ducharme, 187 F. 3d 1075, 1078-1079 (CA9 1999); Miller v.
Champion, 161 F. 3d 1249, 1253 (CA10 1998); Cardwell, 152
F. 3d, at 337; McDonald v. Johnson, 139 F. 3d 1056, 1059
(CA5 1998); Burris v. Parke, 116 F. 3d 256, 258 (CA7 1997);
Love v. Morton, 112 F. 3d 131, 136 (CA3 1997).
Our interpretation of § 2254(e)(2)'s opening clause has support in Keeney v. Tamayo-Reyes, 504 U. S. 1 (1992), a case
decided four years before AEDPA's enactment. In Keeney,
a prisoner with little knowledge of English sought an evidentiary hearing in federal court, alleging his nolo contendere
plea to a manslaughter charge was not knowing and voluntary because of inaccuracies in the translation of the plea

Cite as: 529 U. S. 420 (2000)

Opinion of the Court

proceedings. The prisoner had not developed the facts of
his claim in state collateral proceedings, an omission caused
by the negligence of his state postconviction counsel. See
id., at 4, 8-9. The Court characterized this as the "prisoner's failure to develop material facts in state court." Id.,
at 8. We required the prisoner to demonstrate cause and
prejudice excusing the default before he could receive a
hearing on his claim, ibid., unless the prisoner could "show
that a fundamental miscarriage of justice would result from
failure to hold a federal evidentiary hearing," id., at 12.
Section 2254(e)(2)'s initial inquiry into whether "the applicant has failed to develop the factual basis of a claim in State
court proceedings" echoes Keeney's language regarding "the
state prisoner's failure to develop material facts in state
court." In Keeney, the Court borrowed the cause and prejudice standard applied to procedurally defaulted claims, see
Wainwright v. Sykes, 433 U. S. 72, 87-88 (1977), deciding
there was no reason "to distinguish between failing to properly assert a federal claim in state court and failing in state
court to properly develop such a claim." Keeney, supra, at
8. As is evident from the similarity between the Court's
phrasing in Keeney and the opening clause of § 2254(e)(2),
Congress intended to preserve at least one aspect of
Keeney's holding: prisoners who are at fault for the deficiency in the state-court record must satisfy a heightened
standard to obtain an evidentiary hearing. To be sure, in
requiring that prisoners who have not been diligent satisfy
§2254(e)(2)'s provisions rather than show cause and prejudice, and in eliminating a freestanding "miscarriage of justice" exception, Congress raised the bar Keeney imposed on
prisoners who were not diligent in state-court proceedings.
Contrary to the Commonwealth's position, however, there is
no basis in the text of § 2254(e)(2) to believe Congress used
"fail" in a different sense than the Court did in Keeney or
otherwise intended the statute's further, more stringent requirements to control the availability of an evidentiary hear-

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR

Opinion of the Court

ing in a broader class of cases than were covered by Keeney's
cause and prejudice standard.
In sum, the opening clause of § 2254(e)(2) codifies Keeney's
threshold standard of diligence, so that prisoners who would
have had to satisfy Keeney's test for excusing the deficiency
in the state-court record prior to AEDPA are now controlled
by § 2254(e)(2). When the words of the Court are used in a
later statute governing the same subject matter, it is respectful of Congress and of the Court's own processes to give
the words the same meaning in the absence of specific direction to the contrary. See Lorillard v. Pons, 434 U. S. 575,
581 (1978) ("[W]here... Congress adopts a new law incorporating sections of a prior law, Congress normally can be presumed to have had knowledge of the interpretation given to
the incorporated law, at least insofar as it affects the new
statute"). See also Cottage Savings Assn. v. Commissioner,
499 U. S. 554, 562 (1991).
Interpreting § 2254(e)(2) so that "failed" requires lack of
diligence or some other fault avoids putting it in needless
tension with §2254(d). A prisoner who developed his claim
in state court and can prove the state court's decision was
"contrary to, or involved an unreasonable application of,
clearly established Federal law, as determined by the Supreme Court of the United States," is not barred from obtaining relief by §2254(d)(1). See Williams v. Taylor, ante,
at 412-413 (majority opinion). If the opening clause of
§ 2254(e)(2) covers a request for an evidentiary hearing on a
claim which was pursued with diligence but remained undeveloped in state court because, for instance, the prosecution
concealed the facts, a prisoner lacking clear and convincing
evidence of innocence could be barred from a hearing on
the claim even if he could satisfy §2254(d). See 28 U. S. C.
§2254(e)(2)(B). The "failed to develop" clause does not bear
this harsh reading, which would attribute to Congress a purpose or design to bar evidentiary hearings for diligent prisoners with meritorious claims just because the prosecution's

Cite as: 529 U. S. 420 (2000)

Opinion of the Court

conduct went undetected in state court. We see no indication that Congress by this language intended to remove the
distinction between a prisoner who is at fault and one who
is not.
The Commonwealth argues a reading of "failed to develop" premised on fault empties §2254(e)(2)(A)(ii) of its
meaning. To treat the prisoner's lack of diligence in state
court as a prerequisite for application of §2254(e)(2), the
Commonwealth contends, renders a nullity of the statute's
own diligence provision requiring the prisoner to show "a
factual predicate [of his claim] could not have been previously discovered through the exercise of due diligence."
§ 2254(e)(2)(A)(ii). We disagree.
The Commonwealth misconceives the inquiry mandated
by the opening clause of §2254(e)(2). The question is not
whether the facts could have been discovered but instead
whether the prisoner was diligent in his efforts. The purpose of the fault component of "failed" is to ensure the prisoner undertakes his own diligent search for evidence. Diligence for purposes of the opening clause depends upon
whether the prisoner made a reasonable attempt, in light of
the information available at the time, to investigate and pursue claims in state court; it does not depend, as the Commonwealth would have it, upon whether those efforts could have
been successful. Though lack of diligence will not bar an
evidentiary hearing if efforts to discover the facts would
have been in vain, see §2254(e)(2)(A)(ii), and there is a convincing claim of innocence, see §2254(e)(2)(B), only a prisoner
who has neglected his rights in state court need satisfy these
conditions. The statute's later reference to diligence pertains to cases in which the facts could not have been discovered, whether there was diligence or not. In this important respect § 2254(e)(2)(A)(ii) bears a close resemblance to
(e)(2)(A)(i), which applies to a new rule that was not available
at the time of the earlier proceedings. Cf. Gutierrez v. Ada,
528 U. S. 250, 255 (2000) ("[Words and people are known by

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR
Opinion of the Court

their companions"). Cf. also United States v. Locke, ante, at
105. In these two parallel provisions Congress has given
prisoners who fall within § 2254(e)(2)'s opening clause an opportunity to obtain an evidentiary hearing where the legal
or factual basis of the claims did not exist at the time of
state-court proceedings.
We are not persuaded by the Commonwealth's further argument that anything less than a no-fault understanding of
the opening clause is contrary to AEDPA's purpose to further the principles of comity, finality, and federalism. There
is no doubt Congress intended AEDPA to advance these doctrines. Federal habeas corpus principles must inform and
shape the historic and still vital relation of mutual respect
and common purpose existing between the States and the
federal courts. In keeping this delicate balance we have
been careful to limit the scope of federal intrusion into state
criminal adjudications and to safeguard the States' interest
in the integrity of their criminal and collateral proceedings.
See, e. g., Coleman v. Thompson, 501 U. S. 722, 726 (1991)
("This is a case about federalism. It concerns the respect
that federal courts owe the States and the States' procedural
rules when reviewing the claims of state prisoners in federal
habeas corpus"); McCleskey v. Zant, 499 U. S. 467, 493 (1991)
("[T]he doctrines of procedural default and abuse of the writ
are both designed to lessen the injury to a State that results
through reexamination of a state conviction on a ground that
the State did not have the opportunity to address at a prior,
appropriate time; and both doctrines seek to vindicate the
State's interest in the finality of its criminal judgments").
It is consistent with these principles to give effect to Congress' intent to avoid unneeded evidentiary hearings in federal habeas corpus, while recognizing the statute does not
equate prisoners who exercise diligence in pursuing their
claims with those who do not. Principles of exhaustion are
premised upon recognition by Congress and the Court that
state judiciaries have the duty and competence to vindicate

Cite as: 529 U. S. 420 (2000)

Opinion of the Court

rights secured by the Constitution in state criminal proceedings. Diligence will require in the usual case that the prisoner, at a minimum, seek an evidentiary hearing in state
court in the manner prescribed by state law. "Comity...
dictates that when a prisoner alleges that his continued confinement for a state court conviction violates federal law, the
state courts should have the first opportunity to review this
claim and provide any necessary relief." O'Sullivan v.
Boerckel, 526 U. S. 838, 844 (1999). For state courts to have
their rightful opportunity to adjudicate federal rights, the
prisoner must be diligent in developing the record and presenting, if possible, all claims of constitutional error. If the
prisoner fails to do so, himself or herself contributing to the
absence of a full and fair adjudication in state court,
§2254(e)(2) prohibits an evidentiary hearing to develop the
relevant claims in federal court, unless the statute's other
stringent requirements are met. Federal courts sitting in
habeas are not an alternative forum for trying facts and issues which a prisoner made insufficient effort to pursue in
state proceedings. Yet comity is not served by saying a
prisoner "has failed to develop the factual basis of a claim"
where he was unable to develop his claim in state court despite diligent effort. In that circumstance, an evidentiary
hearing is not barred by § 2254(e)(2).
III
Now we apply the statutory test. If there has been no
lack of diligence at the relevant stages in the state proceedings, the prisoner has not "failed to develop" the facts under
§2254(e)(2)'s opening clause, and he will be excused from
showing compliance with the balance of the subsection's requirements. We find lack of diligence as to one of the three
claims but not as to the other two.
A
Petitioner did not exercise the diligence required to preserve the claim that nondisclosure of Cruse's psychiatric re-

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR
Opinion of the Court

port was in contravention of Brady v. Maryland, 373 U. S.
83 (1963). The report concluded Cruse "ha[d] little recollection of the [murders of the Kellers], other than vague memories, as he was intoxicated with alcohol and marijuana at the
time." App. 495. The report had been prepared in September 1993, before petitioner was tried; yet it was not mentioned by petitioner until he filed his federal habeas petition
and attached a copy of the report. Petitioner explained that
an investigator for his federal habeas counsel discovered the
report in Cruse's court file but state habeas counsel had not
seen it when he had reviewed the same file. State habeas
counsel averred as follows:
"Prior to filing [petitioner's] habeas corpus petition
with the Virginia Supreme Court, I reviewed the Cumberland County court files of [petitioner] and of his codefendant, Jeffrey Cruse. .

.

. I have reviewed the

attached psychiatric evaluation of Jeffrey Cruse .... I
have no recollection of seeing this report in Mr. Cruse's
court file when I examined the file. Given the contents
of the report, I am confident that I would remember it."
Id., at 625-626.
The trial court was not satisfied with this explanation for the
late discovery. Nor are we.
There are repeated references to a "psychiatric" or "mental health" report in a transcript of Cruse's sentencing
proceeding, a copy of which petitioner's own state habeas
counsel attached to the state habeas petition he filed with
the Virginia Supreme Court. The transcript reveals that
Cruse's attorney described the report with details that
should have alerted counsel to a possible Brady claim. As
Cruse's attorney said:
"The psychiatric report ...

point[s] out that [Cruse] is

significantly depressed. He suffered from post traumatic stress. His symptoms include nightmares, sleeplessness, sobbing, reddening of the face, severe depres-

Cite as: 529 U. S. 420 (2000)

Opinion of the Court

sion, flash backs .... [TIhe psychological report states
he is overwhelmed by feelings of guilt and shame in his
actions. He is numb. He is trying to suppress his feelings, but when he has feelings, there is only pain and
sadness." App. 424.
The description accords with the contents of the psychiatric
report, which diagnosed Cruse as suffering from posttraumatic stress .disorder:
"[Cruse] has recurrent nightmares and visualizes the
face of the woman that he killed. When attempting to
describe this nightmare, he breaks openly into tears and
his face reddens .... He continues to feel worthless as a
person .... He has no hope for his future and has
been thinking of suicide constantly... He does describe
inability to sleep, often tossing and turning, waking up,
and feeling fatigued during the day.... He described
neurovegetative symptoms of major depression and
post-traumatic nightmares, recurrent in nature, of the
[murders]." Id., at 495-499.
The transcript put petitioner's state habeas counsel on notice
of the report's existence and possible materiality. The sole
indication that counsel made some effort to investigate the
report is an October 30, 1995, letter to the prosecutor in
which counsel requested "[a]ll reports of physical and mental
examinations, scientific tests, or experiments conducted in
connection with the investigation of the offense, including
but not limited to: ... [a]ll psychological test or polygraph
examinations performed upon any prosecution witness and
all documents referring or relating to such tests .... ." Id.,
at 346-347. After the prosecution declined the requests absent a court order, id., at 353, it appears counsel made no
further efforts to find the specific report mentioned by
Cruse's attorney. Given knowledge of the report's existence
and potential importance, a diligent attorney would have
done more. Counsel's failure to investigate these references

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR
Opinion of the Court

in anything but a cursory manner triggers the opening clause
of § 2254(e)(2).
As we hold there was a failure to develop the factual basis
of this Brady claim in state court, we must determine if the
requirements in the balance of § 2254(e)(2) are satisfied so
that petitioner's failure is excused. Subparagraph (B) of
§ 2254(e)(2) conditions a hearing upon a showing, by clear and
convincing evidence, that no reasonable factfinder would
have found petitioner guilty of capital murder but for the
alleged constitutional error. Petitioner concedes he cannot
make this showing, see Brief for Petitioner 25, and the case
has been presented to us on that premise. For these reasons, we affirm the Court of Appeals' judgment barring an
evidentiary hearing on this claim.
B
We conclude petitioner has met the burden of showing he
was diligent in efforts to develop the facts supporting his
juror bias and prosecutorial misconduct claims in collateral
proceedings before the Virginia Supreme Court.
Petitioner's claims are based on two of the questions posed
to the jurors by the trial judge at voir dire. First, the judge
asked prospective jurors, "Are any of you related to the following people who may be called as witnesses?" Then he
read the jurors a list of names, one of which was "Deputy
Sheriff Claude Meinhard." Bonnie Stinnett, who would
later become the jury foreperson, had divorced Meinhard in
1979, after a 17-year marriage with four children. Stinnett
remained silent, indicating the answer was "no." Meinhard,
as the officer who investigated the crime scene and interrogated Cruse, would later become the prosecution's lead-off
witness at trial.
After reading the names of the attorneys involved in the
case, including one of the prosecutors, Robert Woodson, Jr.,
the judge asked, "Have you or any member of your immediate family ever been represented by any of the aforemen-

Cite as: 529 U. S. 420 (2000)

Opinion of the Court

tioned attorneys?" Stinnett again said nothing, despite the
fact Woodson had represented her during her divorce from
Meinhard. App. 483, 485.
In an affidavit she provided in the federal habeas proceedings, Stinnett claimed "[she] did not respond to the judge's
[first] question because [she] did not consider [herself] 'related' to Claude Meinhard in 1994 [at voir dire] .... Once

our marriage ended in 1979, I was no longer related to him."
Id., at 627. As for Woodson's earlier representation of her,
Stinnett explained as follows:
"When Claude and I divorced in 1979, the divorce was
uncontested and Mr. Woodson drew up the papers so
that the divorce could be completed. Since neither
Claude nor I was contesting anything, I didn't think Mr.
Woodson 'represented' either one of us." Id., at 628.
Woodson provided an affidavit in which he admitted "[he]
was aware that Juror Bonnie Stinnett was the ex-wife of
then Deputy Sheriff Claude Meinhard and [he] was aware
that they had been divorced for some time." Id., at 629.
Woodson stated, however, "[t]o [his] mind, people who are
related only by marriage are no longer 'related' once the
marriage ends in divorce." Ibid. Woodson also "had no
recollection of having been involved as a private attorney in
the divorce proceedings between Claude Meinhard and Bonnie Stinnett." Id., at 629-630. He explained that "[w]hatever [his] involvement was in the 1979 divorce, by the time
of trial in 1994 [he] had completely forgotten about it." Id.,
at 630.
Even if Stinnett had been correct in her technical or literal
interpretation of the question relating to Meinhard, her silence after the first question was asked could suggest to the
finder of fact an unwillingness to be forthcoming; this in turn
could bear on the veracity of her explanation for not disclosing that Woodson had been her attorney. Stinnett's failure
to divulge material information in response to the second

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR
Opinion of the Court

question was misleading as a matter of fact because, under
any interpretation, Woodson had acted as counsel to her and
Meinhard in their divorce. Coupled with Woodson's own
reticence, these omissions as a whole disclose the need for an
evidentiary hearing. It may be that petitioner could establish that Stinnett was not impartial, see Smith v. Phillips,
455 U. S. 209, 217, 219-221 (1982), or that Woodson's silence

so infected the trial as to deny due process, see Donnelly v.
DeChristoforo,416 U. S. 637, 647-648 (1974).
In ordering an evidentiary hearing on the juror bias and
prosecutorial misconduct claims, the District Court concluded the factual basis of the claims was not reasonably
available to petitioner's counsel during state habeas proceedings. After the Court of Appeals vacated this judgment,
the District Court dismissed the petition and the Court of
Appeals affirmed under the theory that state habeas counsel
should have discovered Stinnett's relationship to Meinhard
and Woodson. See 189 F. 3d, at 428.
We disagree with the Court of Appeals on this point. The
trial record contains no evidence which would have put a
reasonable attorney on notice that Stinnett's nonresponse
was a deliberate omission of material information. State
habeas counsel did attempt to investigate petitioner's jury,
though prompted by concerns about a different juror. App.
388-389. Counsel filed a motion for expert services with
the Virginia Supreme Court, alleging "irregularities, improprieties and omissions exist[ed] with respect to the empaneling [sic] of the jury." Id., at 358. Based on these suspicions, counsel requested funding for an investigator "to
examine all circumstances relating to the empanelment of
the jury and the jury's consideration of the case." Ibid.
The Commonwealth opposed the motion, and the Virginia
Supreme Court denied it and dismissed the habeas petition,
depriving petitioner of a further opportunity to investigate.
The Virginia Supreme Court's denial of the motion is understandable in light of petitioner's vague allegations, but the

Cite as: 529 U. S. 420 (2000)

Opinion of the Court

vagueness was not the fault of petitioner. Counsel had no
reason to believe Stinnett had been married to Meinhard or
been represented by Woodson. The underdevelopment of
these matters was attributable to Stinnett and Woodson, if
anyone. We do not suggest the State has an obligation to
pay for investigation of as yet undeveloped claims; but if the
prisoner has made a reasonable effort to discover the claims
to commence or continue state proceedings, § 2254(e)(2) will
not bar him from developing them in federal court.
The Court of Appeals held state habeas counsel was not
diligent because petitioner's investigator on federal habeas
discovered the relationships upon interviewing two jurors
who referred in passing to Stinnett as "Bonnie Meinhard."
See Brief for Petitioner 35. The investigator later confirmed Stinnett's prior marriage to Meinhard by checking
Cumberland County's public records. See 189 F. 3d, at 426
("The documents supporting [petitioner's] Sixth Amendment
claims have been a matter of public record since Stinnett's
divorce became final in 1979. Indeed, because [petitioner's]
federal habeas counsel located those documents, there is little reason to think that his state habeas counsel could not
have done so as well"). We should be surprised, to say the
least, if a district court familiar with the standards of trial
practice were to hold that in all cases diligent counsel must
check public records containing personal information pertaining to each and every juror. Because of Stinnett and
Woodson's silence, there was no basis for an investigation
into Stinnett's marriage history. Section 2254(e)(2) does not
apply to petitioner's related claims of juror bias and prosecutorial misconduct.
We further note the Commonwealth has not argued that
petitioner could have sought relief in state court once he discovered the factual bases of these claims some time between
appointment of federal habeas counsel on July 2, 1996, and
the filing of his federal habeas petition on November 20,
1996. As an indigent, petitioner had 120 days following ap-

WILLIAMS v. TAYLOR

Opinion of the Court

pointment of state habeas counsel to file a petition with the
Virginia Supreme Court. Va. Code Ann. §8.01-654.1 (1999).
State habeas counsel was appointed on August 10, 1995,
about a year before petitioner's investigator on federal habeas uncovered the information regarding Stinnett and
Woodson. As state postconviction relief was no longer
available at the time the facts came to light, it would have
been futile for petitioner to return to the Virginia courts.
In these circumstances, though the state courts did not have
an opportunity to consider the new claims, petitioner cannot
be said to have failed to develop them in state court by reason of having neglected to pursue remedies available under
Virginia law.
Our analysis should suffice to establish cause for any procedural default petitioner may have committed in not presenting these claims to the Virginia courts in the first instance. Questions regarding the standard for determining
the prejudice that petitioner must establish to obtain relief
on these claims can be addressed by the Court of Appeals or
the District Court in the course of further proceedings.
These courts, in light of cases such as Smith, supra, at 215
("[T]he remedy for allegations of juror partiality is a hearing
in which the defendant has the opportunity to prove actual
bias"), will take due account of the District Court's earlier
decision to grant an evidentiary hearing based in part on
its belief that "Juror Stinnett deliberately failed to tell the
truth on voir dire." Williams v. Netherland, Civ. Action
No. 3:96CV529 (ED Va., Apr. 13, 1998), App. 529, 557.
IV
Petitioner alleges the Commonwealth failed to disclose an
informal plea agreement with Cruse. The Court of Appeals
rejected this claim on the merits under §2254(d)(1), so it is
unnecessary to reach the question whether § 2254(e)(2) would
permit a hearing on the claim.

Cite as: 529 U. S. 420 (2000)

445

Opinion of the Court

The judgment of the Court of Appeals is affirmed in part
and reversed in part, and the case is remanded for further
proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

