]KITTREDGE V. RACE ET AL.

PSup. Ct

Congress has provided to the effect that where the defendant
cannot be served with process, by reason of resistance to the
execution of the laws or the interruption of the ordinary course
of judicial proceedings, the time during which the defendant
shall be beyond the reach of legal process shall not be deemed
or taken as any part of the time limited by law for the commencement of such action. 18 Stat. 123.
Cases falling within that provision, whether in the State or
Federal courts, are governed by it: but the difficulty which the
plaintiff has to encounter is, that the district where the cause of
action, if any, arose, was within the control of the United States
throughout the whole period; nor does the record contain any
evidence whatever to show either that the defendant was at
any time beyond the reach of process, or that the insurgents
were in a condition to occasion any interruption of the ordinary course of judicial proceedings in that district. Stewart v.
Kahn, 11 Wall. 506.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions, it is quite clear that
it was competent for the Supreme Court of the State to construe and apply the Statute of Limitations enacted by the State
legislature, and that their decision in that regard is not subject
to re-examination here under a writ of error to a State court.
Judgment affirmed.

KITTREDGE v. RACE ET AL.
1. Under the Code of Practice in Louisiana, a suit may be brought and distinct
judgments rendered against a defendant, as administratrix of her deceased
husband, as widow in community, and as tutrix of his minor heirs.
2. There was no error in this case in rendering judgment against the minor heirs,
declaring that each is liable for his or her proportional share of the father's
half of the estate, with benefit of inventory. The legal effect is the same
as if the judgment had been against the defendant as tutrix; nor was there
error in rendering judgment for all the costs against her and the minor heirs
in solido.
8. As an objection to the institution of the suit against the defendant in three
distinct capacities, even if it would have been valid, was not taken in the
court below at any stage in the case, it cannot be taken here.
4. The exception, that a suit in equity was pending in which the plaintiffs asked
for a decree for the same money, was no ground for abatement of this action
at law, as the result of the action may be necessary for the perfecting of a
decree in that suit.
B. An exception is waived by going to trial on the merits.

Oct. 18-15o.]

KITTREDGE v. RACE ET AL.

E'R ROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
.3Ir.T. J. -Durantand Mr. C. T Hornor for the plaintiff in
errol.

i.r.

B. T. Ilerric, contra.

AIR. JUSTICE BRADtLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought in the court below by Mrs. Olivia C.
Race and her husband against Mrs. Ann E. Kittredge, widow
of Dr. E. E. Kittredge, administratrix of his succession,
and tutrix of his minor children, to recover the balance due
on two promissory notes given by Dr. Kittredge to the plaintiff, Olivia C. Race, before his death. The notes were, originally for nearly 88,000 each, and were given to Mrs. Race, who
was a daughter of Dr. Kittredge by a former wife, in settlement of her share of her mothers estate. The defendant was
his second wife, by whom he also had several children. The
notes were given in 1862; and several payments of interest had
been made, and $2,500 of the principal was paid on each note
in February, 1868, as appears by indorsements thereon. This
payment and two of the payments of interest were made by
the defendant herself after her husband's death. The petition
alleges that Dr. Kittredge's succession was opened in the Probate Court for the Parish of Assumption, in Louisiana, with
the defendant, the widow in community, and tutrix of the
minor children, as administratrix, and that she has frequently
acknowledged the correctness of the notes and the liability of
the succession to pay them; that she placed the payments
made by her as aforesaid on the first provisional account filed
by her on the 9th of July, 1869, in said succession, which account was homologated; and that in a compromise between
the defendant as widow in community, tutrix, and all the heirs
(except the petitioner), made in and by a document which was
duly passed by public act before a notary, it was stipulated as
follows: viz., "That the following debts due by the succession
of said Dr. E. E. Kittredge shall be assumed and placed at the
charge of the parties of the second part; and the said parties
of the second part warrant and guarantee said parties of the'
first part against all liabilities from the same; viz., 'a debt of

KITTREDGE V. RACE ET AL.

[Sup. Oo

about $11,000, due Olivia Corinne Race, balance due her from
her mother's succession.'"
The petition was filed Aug. 16, 1872.
The defendant, as administratrix and tutrix, filed an exception and an answer. The former sets up the prescription of five
years, and the pendency of a suit in equity in the same court,
instituted by the petitioner against the defendant and the other
heirs of Dr. Kittredge, in which she prays a decree for the
same identical demand. The answer is a general denia . to
the petition, accompanied by an answer to interrogatories admitting that Dr. Kittredge, shortly before his death, told defendant that he owed the petitioner, his daughter, $15,000.
As widow in community and individually, the defendant filed
a second exception, alleging, -First,That the petition does not disclose any right of action
against her in those capacities.
Secondly, That, if any is disclosed, it is prescribed by the
lapse of five years.
Thirdly, That the petitioner has a suit in equity pending in
the same court against the defendant and the other heirs of
Dr. Kittredge, in which she prays a decree for the same identical money claimed in this suit.
A jury being waived, the cause was tried by the court, which
found generally in favor of the petitioner, and awarded her a
judgment against the defendant as administratrix for the
amount of the notes and interest, with all costs of suit, to be
paid out of the assets of the succession; and adjudged her to be
bound in her individual capacity, and as widow in community,
for 9ne half of said debt and interest; and also gave judgment
against each of the minors, -with benefit of inventory of their
virile shares of said debt, for one-eleventh of the remaining
half, and against all the defendants in solido for all costs.
In view of the general finding against petitioner, the allegations of the petition must be regarded as true, and all the issues
of fact as found in her favor; and there is no bill of exceptions
to call the result of the trial in question. The only errors that
can avail the plaintiff in error here are those which are apparent on the face of the record, if any such there be. The alleged
errors to which our attention has been specially called will be
now considered.

Oct. 1875.]

KITTREDGE V. RACE ET AL.

It is contended that the institution of the suit against the
defendant in three distinct capacities, as administratrix, as
widow in community, and as tutrix of the minor heirs, was
error. Supposing her to be bound and liable in these several
capacities, the error, if one has been committed, is one of form
rather than of substance. In common-law actions, it is not
unusual to render two distinct judgments against an executor,
one directing money to be levied of the goods of the deceased
in his hands to be administered, and the other (if he has made
himself personally liable, and there are not sufficient goods of
the testator) directing the same money to be levied of his own
proper goods. This is always the case with regard to the costs
of the suit. In Louisiana, where the course of procedure is
more flexible and more closely adapted to the nature of the
case, it is not an unusual thing to render distinct judgments
against the same person in several capacities. It is, really, a
question of joinder of parties; and the objection should have
been taken in limine. But it was not taken at all in the court
below; and it is too late to take it here for the first time, even
if it would have been valid in the court below at any stage in the
cause. In the case of Salol v. Cihaixnaidre,14 La. Ann. 574, a judgment on a mortgage of the decedent against the widow in
community as to one half, and against her, as tutrix for her
minor children, as to the other half, -the
judgment was reversed, and the cause remanded in order that the petition might
be amended by making the widow a party as administratrix of
the succession; the succession being the principal debtor, and
liable for the whole amount. This case, if we understand it
correctly, shows that the form of action adopted in this case is
perfectly correct in Louisiana.
But it is alleged to be error in the judgment in finding the
defendant liable in the several capacities specified. The plaintiff in error has failed, however, to sustain this allegation.
That the succession is liable for the whole debt there cannot be
a doubt. That the widow in community is liable for one-half
the amount is equally clear. Art. 2378 of the Code says, "In
the partition of the effects of the partnership or community
of gains, both husband and wife are to be equally liable for their
share of the debts contracted during the marriage." Of course,

KITTREDGE V. RACE ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

she might have renounced the benefit of community; but she
did not do so. That the heirs are liable for their proportional
share of the deceased father's part, so fax as they have assets,
is also clear from art. 1376 (or 1427 of the Revised Code),
taken in connection with arts. 1025 and following. No attempt has been made to show that these provisions of the
Code are not applicable to the case.
As to the alleged error that a judgment was given against the
minor heirs, although they were not parties to the suit, it is sufficient to quote the hundred and fifteenth article of the Code of
Practice, which says that "actions against interdicted persons or
minors must be brought directly against the tutor of the minor or
the curator of the interdicted person." The suit was instituted
against the defendant as tutrix of the minor heirs; and the
judgment expresses the legal effect of a judgment against her in
that capacity. It declares that those heirs (naming them) are
liable each for his or her proportional share of the father's half
of the estate, with benefit of inventory. The judgment seems
to be in exact accordance with the law and justice of the case.
It might have been against the defendant as tutrix; but the
legal effect would have been the same. See .abauve v. Goodbee, 25 La. Ann. 483.
The allegation, that it is for too large an amount, is equally
untenable. It awards interest on the amount due upon the
notes at the rate of eight per cent per annum; and this is the
rate provided for in the notes themselves. But the defendant
alleges, that, after the maturity of the notes, the debt can draw
interest only at the rate prescribed by law, which is five per
cent. Conventional interest is allowed in Louisiana to the
amount of eight per cent, and an article of the Code declares
that conventional interest is due without any demand from the
time stipulated for its commencement until the principal is
paid (Civil Code, art. 1931); and the Supreme Court of
Louisiana has decided that this law operates after the maturity
of the principal. Barbarinv. Daniels, 7 La. 482.
The other assignments of error require but a passing notice.
One is, that judgment is rendered for all the costs against the
defendant and the minor heirs in solido. If judgment may be
entered against the minor heirs at all in the case, there is no

Oct. 1875.]

KITTREDGE V. IRACE ET AL.

error in this part of it. In actions at law, it is a general rule,
that the losing parties, or the parties against whom judgment is
rendered, are to pay the costs; and no apportionment of the
costs is made between them. Each is liable for all, whatever
may be their respective interests in the subject-matter of the
suit. In equity it is different. There the court has a discretion as to the costs, and may impose them all upon one party,
or may divide them in such manner as it sees fit. We perceive
no error in this particular in the judgment.
Another error alleged is, that the court took no notice of the
exceptions put in by the defendants. The defendants waived
the exceptions by going to trial on the merits. Long v. Long,
S Rob. 108; Reynolds v. Rowley, id. 202; Phoebe v. Vienne,
11 La. Ann. 688; Forc v. Scott, 23 id. 54. But, if this were
not so, it is to be presumed that the exceptions resting upon
allegations of fact, such as that of prescription, were found to be
against the defendants on the evidence. The exception, that a
suit in equity was pending in which the plaintiffs asked for a
decree for the same money, was no ground for abatement of
this suit. This was an action at law, and the result of it may
be necessary for the perfecting of a decree in thd equity suit.
Nothing else appears to be presented by the exceptions but
what must have been taken into consideration in rendering the
judgment.
The objection that the succession of Dr. Kittredge must be
settled in due course of administration in the proper probate
or parish court in Louisiana, and that such court has exclusive
jurisdiction of the case, is answered by the case referred to by
the counsel of plaintiffs in error; namely, Yonley v. Lavender,
21 Wall. 276. That decision is, that a judgment maybe rendered
for the amount due in order to have it judicially ascertained,
even though it may be that the judgment can only be collected
through the local court in due course of administration.
Judgment affirmed.

