480

KENNARD v. LOUISIANA EX REL. MORGAN.

[Sup. Ct.

nxmAgi v. LOUESLANA EX RL. MORGAN.
The State of Louisiana passed an act entitled "An Act to regulate pro( eedings
in contestations between persons claiming a judicial office."
Sect. 1 provides that "in any case in which a person may have been appointed
to the office of judge of any court of this State, and shall have been confirmed by the senate, and commissioned thereto, . . . such commission shall
be primafacie proof of the right of such person to immediately hold and exercise such office."
Sect. 2 provides "that if any person, being an incumbent of such office, shall
refuse to vacate the same, and turn the same over to the person so commissioned, such person so commissioned shall have the right to proceed by rule
before the court of competent jurisdiction, to have himself declared to be
entitled to such office, and to be inducted therein. Such rule shall be taken
contradictorily with such incumbent, and shall be made returnable within
twenty-four hours, and shall be tried immediately without jury, and by preference over all matter or causes depending in such court; . . . and the judgment thereon shall be signed the same day of rendition."
The next section provides that an appeal, if taken, shall be applied for within
one day after the rendition of the judgment, and be made returnable to the
Supreme Court within two days. The appeal has preference over all other
business in that court, and the judgment thereon is final after the expiration of
one day. Held, that the State, by proceedings under this act, which resulted
in a judgment adverse to the title of the plaintiff in error to a certain judicial
office, did not, through her judiciary, violate that clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States which declares, "nor
shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due
process of law."

to the Supreme Court of the State. of Louisiana.
On the 3d of December, 1872, John H. Kennard was,
during a recess of the senate of Louisiana, appointed by the
governor associate justice of the Supreme Court of Louisiana,
in place of W. W. Howe, resigned.
On the 4th of January, 1873, the acting governor commissioned P. H. Morgan associate justice of the Supreme Court,
in place of W. W. Howe, resigned. Kennard claimed to hold
until the expiration of the next regular session of the legislature.
To settle the disputed title to the office, suit was brought.
The courts of Louisiana, proceeding under an act of the legislature of Jan. 15, 1873, determined in favor of Morgan.
The case was then brought here upon the ground that the
State of Louisiana acting under this law, through her judiciary,
had deprived Kennard of his office without due process of law,
in violation of that provision of the Fourteenth Amendment of
ERROR

Oct. 1875.]

KENNARD v. LOUISIANA EX REL. MORGAN.

481

the Constitution of the United States which prohibits any State
from depriving any person of life, liberty, or property, "without
due process of law." The provisions of the law are set forth
in the opinion of the court.
3JIr. Thomnas J. Semmes, Mr. Bobert Hott,and Mr. N. P. Chipman, for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Thomas .JDurant,contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAiTE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The sole question presented for our consideration in this
case, as stated by the counsel fbr the plaintiff in error, is,
whether the State of Louisiana, acting under the statute of
Jan. 15, 1873, through her judiciary, has deprived Kennard of
his office without due process of law. It is substantially admitted by counsel in the argument that such is not the case,
if it has been done "in the due course of legal proceedings,
according to those rules and forms which have been established
for the protection of private rights." We accept this as a
sufficient definition of the term "due process of law," for the
purposes of the present case. The question before us is, not
whether the courts below, having jurisdiction of the case and
the parties, have followed the law, but whether the law, if followed, would have furnished Kennard the protection guaranteed by the Constitution. Irregularities and mere errors in the
proceedings can only be corrected in the State courts. Our
authority does not extend beyond an examination of the power
of the courts below to proceed at all.
This makes it necessary for us to examine the law under
which the proceedings were had, and determine its effect.
It was entitled "An Act to regulate proceedings in contestations between persons claiming a judicial office." Sect. 1 provided, that "in any case in which a person may have been
appointed to the office of judge of any court in this State, and
shall have been confirmed by the senate and commissioned
thereto, . . . such commission shall be primafacie proof of the
right of such person to immediately hold and exercise such
office."
It will thus be seen that the act relates specially to the
VOL, 11.

:31

482

KENNARD v. LOUISIANA EX REL. MORGAN.

[Suap. Ct.

judges of the courts of the State, and to the internal regulations of a State in respect to its own officers.
The second section then provides, "that if any person, being
an incumbent of such office, shall refuse to vacate the same, and
turn the same over to the person so commissioned, such person
so commissioned shall have the right to proceed by rule before
the court of competent jurisdiction, to have himself declared to
be entitled to such office, and to be inducted therein. Such rule
shall be taken contradictorily with such incuinbent, and shall
be made returnable within twenty-four hours, and shall be
tried immediately without jury, and by preference over all
matter or causes depending in such court; . . . and the judgment thereon shall be signed the same day of rendition."
There is here no provision for a technical "citation," so
called; but there is, in effect, provision for a rule upon the
incumbent to show cause why he refuses to surrender his office,
and for service of this rule upon him. The incumbent was,
therefore, to be formally called upon by a court of competent
jurisdiction to give .information to it, in an adversary proceeding against him, of the authority by which he assumed to
perform the duties of one of the important offices of the
State. He was to be told when and where he must make his
answer. The law made it the duty of the court to require this
return to be made within twenty-four hours, and it placed the
burden of proof upon him. But it required that he should be
called upon to present his case before the court could proceed
to judgment. He had an opportunity to be heard before he
could be condemned. This was "process;" and, when served, it
was sufficient to bring the incumbent into court, and to place
him within its jurisdiction. In this case, it is evident from the
record that the rule was made, and that it was in some form
brought to the attention of Kennard; for on the return day he
appeared. At first, instead of showing cause why he refused
to vacate his office, he objected that he had not been properly
cited to appear; but the court adjudged otherwise. He then
made known his title to the office; in other words, he showed
cause why he refused to vacate. This was, in effect, that he
bad been commissioned to hold the office till the end of tho
next session of the Senate. and that time had not arrived.

0,t. 187-5.]

KENNARD V. LOUISIANA

EX R'EL. MORGAN.

483

-Upon this he asked a trial by jury. This the court refused,
and properly, because the law under which the proceedings
were had provided in terms that there should be no such trial.
He then went to trial. No delays were asked except such as
were granted. Judgment -was speedily rendered; but ample
time and opportunity were given for deliberation. Due process
of law does not necessarily imply delay; and it is certainly no
improper interference with the rights of the parties to give
such cases as this precedence over the other business in the
courts.
The next section provides for an appeal. True, it must be
taken within one day after the rendition of the judgment, and
is maale returnable to the Supreme Court within two days.
The proceeding on appeal was given preference over all other
business in the Appellate Court, and the judgment upon the
appeal was made final after the expiration of one day. Kennard availed himself of this right. He took his appeal, and
was heard. The court considered the case, and gave its
judgment.
From this it appears that ample provision has been made for
the trial of the contestation before a court of competent jurisdiction ; for bringing the party against whom the proceeding is
had before the court, and notifying him of the case he is required to meet; for giving him an opportunity to be heard in
his defence; for the deliberation and judgment of the court;
for an appeal from this judgment to the highest court of the
State, and for hearing and judgment there. A mere statement
of the facts carries with it a complete answer to all the constitutional objections urged against the validity of the act. The
remedy provided was certainly speedy; but it could only be
enforced by means of orderly proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction in accordance with rules and forms established for the protection of the rights of the parties. In this
particular case, the party complaining not only had the right
to be heard, but he was in fact heard, both in the court in
which the proceedings were originally instituted, and, upon his
appeal, in the highest court of the State.
Judgment affirrxed.

