MORRISON ET AL. V. JACKSON.

[Sup. ot.

must itself hear and determine all causes which come before it
for adjudication; but we see no reason why it may not use such
machinery as courts of more general jurisdiction are accustomed
to employ under similar circumstances to aid in their investigations. In these cases, complicated accounts and complicated
facts were to be passed upon. The court referred them to a
'special commissioner to state the accounts, marshal the assets,
and adjust the losses, "so that equal and exact justice should
be done to all." The report of the commissioner, when made,
was considered by the court, and, after due deliberation, approved. The court determined the title of the several claimants, and their rights to the proceeds, upon evidence irrespective
of the commissioner's report, whenever requested to do so by
the claimant or the defendants. We see no error in this. The
judgments rendered are the result of the* deliberation of the
court, and not that of the commissioner alone.
Judgment in each case affirmed.
United States v. Smith, which was argued at the same time by .1r.
NOTE. -In
Solicitor-General Pillips and .11r. Assistant Attorney. General Edwin B. Snith for
the appellants, and by Mllr. Henr' S. Foot for the appellees, Ma. CHIEF JUSTIC
WAITE, delivering the opinion of the court, remarked, this case differs only from
those just decided, in the fact that it seeks to reach a different fund produced in
the same way. All the essential facts are the same.
Judgment affirmed upon the principles embraced in the opinionjust read.

MORRISON ET AL. V. JACKSON.
In 1802 a concession of six thousand arpents of land was made to S. by the acting Spanish governor of Upper Louisiana. An official survey, made by the
officer designated in the concession, and in part fulfilment thereof, gives the
boundaries of a tract situate on the river Des Pbres, about eight miles from
St. Louis, containing four thousand and two arpents. Another survey was
made by the same surveyor, under the same concession, of another tract, upon
the river Meramac, about twenty miles south-west of St. Louis, supposed to
contain fourteen hundred arpents. The claim of S. was rejected in 1811 by
the board of commissioners, but was confirmed by the recorder of land-titles
for the quantity contained in a league square (seven thousand and fifty-six
arpents), situate on the river Des Peres, and the decision of that officer, embraced in his report of February, 1816, whs confirmed by an act of Congress,
April 29, 1816. The surveyor of the United States for the Territory of Missouri surveyed for S., on the sixth and seventh days of May, 1818, a tract

