Oct. 1875.]

CHY LUNG v. FREEMAN ET AL.

Whether, in the absence of such action, the States can, or
how far they can, by appropriate legislation, protect themselves
against actual paupers, vagrants, criminals, and diseased persons,
arriving in their territory from foreign countries, we do not
decide. The portions of the New York statute which convern
persons who, on inspection, are found to belong to these classes,
are not properly before us, because the relief sought is io the
part of the statute applicable to all passengers alike, and is the
only relief which can be given on this bill.
The decree of the Circuit Court of New York, in the case of
Henderson et al. v. Miayor of the City of New -Forcet al., is reversed, and the case remanded; with direction to enter a decree
for an injunction in accordance witl this opinion.
The statute of Louisiana, which is involved in the case of
Commissioners of Inmigration v. NYorth German *Lloyd, is so
very similar to, if not an exact copy of, that of New York,
as to need no separate consideration. In this case the relief
sought was against exacting the bonds or paying the commutation-money as to all passengers, which relief the Circuit Court
granted by an appropriate injunction; and the decree in that
case is accordingly affirmed.

Cny

LUNG v. FREErmA

ET AL.

1. The statute of California, which is the subject of consideration in this case,
does not require a bond for every passenger, or commutation in money, as
the statutes of New York and Louisiana do, but only for certain enumerated
classes, among which are "lewd and debauched women."
2. But the features of the statute are such as to show very clearly that the purpose is to extort money from a large class of passengers, or to prevent their
immigration to California altogether.
8. The statute also operates directly on the passenger; for, unless the master or
owner of the vessel gives an onerous bond for the future protection of the
State against the support of the passenger, or pays such sum as the Commissioner of Immigration chooses to exact, he is not permitted to land from
the vessel.
4. The powers which the commissioner is authorized to exercise under this
statute are such as to bring the United States into conflict with foreign nations, and they can only belong to the Federal government.
5. If the right of the States to pass statutes to protect themselves in regard to
the criminal, the pauper, and the diseased foreigner, landing within their

276

CHY LUNG v. FREEMAN ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

borders, exists at all, it is limited to such laws as are absolutely necessary
for that purpose; and this mere police regulation cannot extend so far as to
prevent or obstruct other classes of persons from the right to hold personal
and commercial intercourse with the people of the United States.
13.The statute of California, in this respect, extends far beyond the necessity in
which the right, if it exists, is founded, and invades the right of Congress
to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and is therefore void.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of California.
fu~r. Attorney-General Pierrepontfor the plaintiff in error.
No opposing counsel.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

While this case presents for our consideration the same class
of State statutes considered in Henderson et al. v. Mayor of
the City of lNew York et al., and Commissioners of Immigration
v. North German Lloyd, supra, p. 259, it differs from them in
two very important points.
These are, Pirst, The plaintiff in error was a passenger on a
vessel from China, being a subject of the Emperor of China,
and is held a prisoner because the owner or master of the
vessel who brought her over refused to give a bond in the sum
of $500 in gold, conditioned to indemnify all the counties,
towns, and cities of California against liability for her support
or maintenance for two years.
Secondly, The statute of California, unlike those of New
York and Louisiana, does not require a bond for all passengers
landing from a foreign country, but only for classes of passengers specifically described, among which are "lewd and debauched women;" to which class it is alleged plaintiff belongs.
The plaintiff, with some twenty other women, on the arrival of the steamer "Japan" from China, was singled out by
the Commissioner of Immigration, an officer of the State of
California, as belonging to that class, and the master of the
vessel required to give the bond prescribed by law before he
permitted them to land. This he refused to do, and detained
them on board. They sued out a writ of habeas corpus, which
by regular proceedings resulted in their committal, by order
of the Supreme Court of the State, to the custody of the sheriff
of the county and city of San Francisco, to await the return of
which had left the port pending the progress of
the "sJapan,"

Oct. 1875.]

CHY LUNG v.

FREEMAN ET AL.

the case; the order being to remand them to that vessel on her
return, to be removed from the State.
All of plaintiff's companions were released from the custody
of the sheriff on a writ of habeas corpus issued by 'Mr. Justice
Field of this court. But plaintiff by a writ of error brings the
judgmei t of the Supreme Court of California. to this court,
for the purpose, as we suppose, of testing the constitutionality
of the act under which she is held a prisoner. We regret very
much, that, while the Attorney-General of the United States
has deemed the matter of such importance as to argue it in
person, there has been no argument in behalf of the State of
California, the Commissioner of Immigration, or the Sheriff of
San Francisco, in support of the authority by which plaintiff
is held a prisoner; nor have we been furnished even with a
brief in support of the statute of that State.
It is a most extraordinary statute. It provides that the
Commissioner of Immigration is "to satisfy himself whether or
not any passenger who shall arrive in the State by vessels from
any foreign port or place (who is not a citizen of the United
States) is lunatic, idiotic, deaf, dumb, blind, crippled, or infirm, and is not accompanied by relatives who are able and
willing to support him, or is likely to become a public charge,
or has been a pauper in any other country, or is from sickness
or disease (existing either at the time of sailing from the port
of departure or at the time of his arrival in the State) a public
charge, or likely soon to become so, or is a .convicted criminal,
or a lewd or debauched woman; " and no such person shall be
permitted to land from the vessel, unless the master or owner
or consignee shall give a separate bond in each case, conditioned
to save harmless every county, city, and town of the State
against any expense incurred for the relief, support, or care of
such person for two years thereafter.
The commissioner is authorized to charge the sum of seventyfie cents for every examination of a passenger made by him;
which sum he may collect of the master, owner, or consignee, or
of the vessel by attachment. The bonds are to be prepared by
the commissioner, and two sureties are required to each bond,
and, for preparing the bond, the commissioner is allowed to
charge and collect a fee of three dollars; and for each oath ad-

CHY LUNG v. FREEMAN ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

ministered to a surety, concerning his sufficiency as such, he may
charge one dollar. It is expressly provided that there shall be
a separate bond for each passenger; that there shall be two
sureties on each bond, and that the same sureties must not be
on more than one bond; and they must in all cases be residents
of the State.
If the ship-master or owner prefers, he may commute for
these bonds by paying such a sum of money as the commissioner
may in each case think proper to exact; and, after retaining
twenty per cent of the commutation-money for his services, the
commissioner is required once a month to deposit the balance
with the Treasurer of the State. See c. 1, art. 7, of the Political Code of California, as modified by sect. 70 of the amendments of 1873, 1874.
It is hardly possible to conceive a statute more skilfully
framed, to place in the hands of a single man the power to prevent entirely vessels engaged in a foreign trade, say with China,
from carrying passengers, or to compel them to submit to systematic extortion of the grossest kind.
The commissioner has but to go aboard a vessel filled with
passengers ignorant of our language and our laws, and without
trial or hearing or evidence, but from the external appearances
of persons with whose former habits he is unfamiliar, to point
with his finger to twenty, as in this case, or a hundred if he
chooses, and say to the master, "These are idiots, these are
paupers, these are eonvicted criminals, these are lewd women,
and these others are debauched women. I have here a hundred blank forms of bonds, printed. I require you to fill me up
and sign each of these for $500 in gold, and that you furnish me
two hundred different men, residents of this State, and of sufficient means, as sureties on these bonds. I charge you five dollars
in each case for preparing the bond and swearing your sureties;
and I charge you seventy-five cents each for examining these passengers, and all others you have on board. If you don't do this,
you are forbidden to land your passengers under a heavy penalty.
But I have the power to commute with you for all this for any
sum I may choose to take in cash. I am open to an offer; for
you must remember that twenty per cent of all I can get out
of you goes into my own 'pocket, and the remainder into the
treastl v of Californlia."

Oct. 1875.]

CHY LUNG v.

FREEMAN ET AL.

If, as we have endeavored to show in the opinion in the preceding cases, we are at liberty to look to the effect of a statute
for the test of its constitutionality, the argument need go no
further.
But we have thus far only considered the effect of the statute
on the owner of the vessel.
As regards the passengers, sect. 2963 declares that consuls,
ministers, agents, or other public functionaries, of any foreign
government, arriving in this State in their official capacity, are
exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
All other passengers axe subject to the order of the Commissioner of Immigration.
Individual foreigners, however distinguished at home for
their social, their literary, or their political character, are helpless in the presence of this potent commissioner. Such a person
may offer to furnish any amount of surety on his own bond, or
deposit any sum of money; but the law of California takes no
note of him. It is the master, owner, or consignee of the vessel
alone whose bond can be accepted; and so a silly, an obstinate, or a wicked commissioner may bring disgrace upon the
whole country, the enmity of a powerful nation, or the loss of
an equally powerful friend.
While the occurrence of the hypothetical case just stated
may be highly improbable, we venture the assertion, that, if
citizens of our own government were treated by any foreign
nation as subjects of the Emperor of China have been actually
treated under this law, no administration could withstand the
call for a demand on such government for redress.
Or, if this plaintiff and her twenty companions had been
subjects of the Queen of Great Britain, can any one doubt that
this matter would have been the subject of international inquiry, if not of a direct claim for redress? Upon whom would
such a claim be made ? Not upon the State of California; for,
by our Constitution, she can hold no exterior relations with
other nations. It would be made upon the government of the
United States. If that government should get into a difficulty
which would lead to war, or to suspension of intercourse, would
California alone suffer, or all the Union ? If we should conclude
that a pecuniary indemnity was proper as a satisfaction for the

CHY LUNG V. FREEMAN ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

injury, would California pay it, or the Federal government? If
that government has forbidden the States to hold negotiations
with any foreign nations, or to declare war, and has taken the
whole subject of these relations upon herself, has the Constitution, which provides for this, done so foolish a thing as to leave
it in the power of the States to pass laws whose enforcement
renders the general government liable to just reclamations which
it must answer, while it does not prohibit to the States the
acts for which it is held responsible ?
The Constitution of the United States is no such instrument.
The passage of laws which concern the admission of citizens
and subjects of foreign nations to our shores belongs to Congress, and not to the States. It has the power to regulate
commerce with foreign nations: the responsibility for the
character of those regulations, and for the manner of their
execution, belongs solely to the national government. If it be
otherwise, a single State can, at her pleasure, embroil us in disastrous quarrels with other nations.
We are not called upon by this statute to decide for or
against the right of a State, in the absence of legislation by
Congress, to protect herself by necessary and proper laws
against paupers and convicted criminals from abroad; nor to
lay down the definite limit of such right, if it exist. Such a
right can only arise from a vital necessity for its exercise, and
cannot be carried beyond the scope of that necessity. When a
State statute, limited to provisions necessary and appropriate
to that object alone, shall, in a proper controversy, come before
us, it will be time enough to decide that question. The statute
of California goes so far beyond what is necessary, or even appropriate, for this purpose, as to be wholly without any sound
definition of the right under which it is supposed to be justified. Its manifest purpose, as we have already said, is, not to
obtain indemnity, but money.
The amount to be taken is left in every case to the discretion
of an officer, whose cupidity is stimulated by a reward of onefifth of all he can obtain.
The money, when paid, does not go to any fund for the
benefit of immigrants, but is paid into the general treasury of
the State, and devoted to the use of all her indigent citizens.

Oct. 1875.]

UNITED STATES V.

Ross.

The blind, or the deaf, or the dumb passenger is subject to
contribution, whether he be a rich man or a pauper. The
patriot, seeking our shores after an unsuccessful struggle
against despotism in Europe or Asia, may be kept out because
there his resistance has been adjudged a crime. The woman
whose error has been repaired by a happy marriage and numerous children, and whose loving husband brings her with
his wealth to a new home, may be told she must pay a round
sum before she can land, because it is alleged that she was
debauched by her husband before marriage. Whether a young
woman's manners are such as to justify the commissioner in
calling her lewd may be made to depend on the sum she will
pay for the privilege of landing in San Francisco.
It is idle to pursue the criticism. In any view which we
can take of this statute, it is in conflict with the Constitution
of the United States, and therefore void.
Judgment reversed, and the case remanded, with directions to
make an order dischargingthe prisonerfrom custody.

UNITED STATES V. ROSS.
1. It is incumbent upon a claimant, under the Captured or Abandoned Property
Act, to establish by sufficient proof that the property captured or abandoned
came into the hands of a treasury agent; that it was sold; that the proceeds of the sale were paid into the treasury of the United States; and that
he was the owner of the property, and entitled to the proceeds thereof.
2. Because the claimant's property was captured and sent forward by a military
officer, and there is an unclaimed fund in the treasury derived from sales of
property of the same kind, a court is not authorized to conclude, as matter
of law, that the property was delivered by that officer to a treasury agent,
that it was sold by the latter, and that the proceeds were covered into the
treasury.
8. The presumption that public officers have done their duty does not supply
proof of independent and substantive facts.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims.

1J'. Assistant Attorney- General Edwin B. Smith for the
United States.
Mr. George Taylor, contra.

