Oct. 1875.]

STOTT ET AL.

v.

RUTnERFORD.

ings with individuals and officers, might be exposed, to the serious detriment of the public. A secret service, with liability to
publicity in this way, would be impossible; and, as such services
are sometimes indispensable to the government, its agents in
those services must look for their compensation to the contingent fund of the department employing them, and to such allowance from it as those who dispense that fund may award. The
secrecy which such contracts impose precludes any action for
their enforcement. The publicity produced by an action would
itself be a breach of a contract of that kind, and thus defeat a
recovery.
It may be stated as a general principle, that public policy
forbids the maintenance of any suit in oa court of justice, the
trial of which would inevitably lead to the disclosure of matters
which the law itself regards as confidential, and respecting
which it will not allow the confidence to be violated. On this
principle, suits cannot be maintained which would require a
disclosure of the confidences of the confessional, or those between husband and wife, or of communications by a client to
his counsel for professional advice, or of a patient to his physiciah for a similar purpose. Much greater reason exists for the
application of the principle to cases of contract for secret services with the government, as the existence of a contract of
that kind is itself a fact not to be disclosed.
Judgment affirmed.

STOTT ET A..

V. RUTHERFORD.

1. The words -1grant" and " demise" in a lease for years create an implied war.
ranty of title and a covenant for quiet enjoyment.
2. Where the lessors executed a lease and demised the lands in their own names,
and not as agents, and the covenants of the lessee were all to them person.
ally, and he entered into the lands, and remained in possession during the
time specified in the lease, - Held, notwithstanding the recital in the lease
that "the lessors were acting as a church-extension committee by authority
and on behalf of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church, Old
School," that the lease was competent evidence in an action brought by
the lessors in their individual right to recover the rent; and that the lessee,
having had the full benefit of the contract, could not dispute the title of the
lessors Hodd.fialt/r, that the recital is not inconsistent with a holding cf the

STOTT ET AL. V. RUTHERFORD.

[Sup. ot.

legal title by the lessors in trust to enable them to better discharge their
duties touching the property; and, as their act presupposes the prior act
necessary to make it effectual, every reasonable presumption is to be made
in favor of the validity of the lease.

to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
Mr. W. A. Meloy for the plaintiff in error.
Hr. Walter S. roxand l"Mr. E. C. Hfine, contra.
ERROR

MR. JusTICE SWAYN- delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action of covenant brought upon an indenture of
lease executed by the plaintiffs in error, and one P. D. Gurley,
since deceased, to the defendant in error. The declaration sets
out sundry breaches of stipulations contained in the lease. The
defendant pleaded non est factum, and satisfaction of the claim
of the plaintiffs by payment. Upon the trial, several bills of
exception were taken by the defendant. They show that he
made numerous points, all of which were overruled by the
court. Only one of them requires consideration. He objected to the admission of the lease in evidence, upon the
ground that it showed upon its face that the lessors had no
title to the premises, and that the instrument was, therefore,
a nullity. The court admitted the evidence, and an exception
was regularly taken.
A verdict was rendered for the plaintiffs. The defendant
moved for a new trial, and the case was heard by the full court
in general term. That court ordered a judgment to be entered
for the defendant, non obstante veredicto. The plaintiffs have
brought the case before this court for review. The judgment
of the court below proceeded solely upon the ground of the
invalidity of the lease, and that subject is the only one argued
here.
The lease created a term beginning on the first day of February, 1864, and to continue five years. It recites that the
lessors, in making the lease, "were acting as a church-extension committee by authority and on behalf of the General
Assembly of the Presbyterian Church, Old School." The
leasehold premises are described as "being lot number four
and part of lot number five," &c., "as now held by the parties
of the first part," &c. The lessee covenants, among other

Oct. 1875.]

STOT

ET AL. V. RUTHERFORD.

things, "that he will well and truly surrender and deliver up
the possession of said premises to the said parties of the first
part, their successors and assigns, in accordance with the stipulations herein contained, whenever this lease shall terminate."
It was provided that the lessors might terminate the lease
for non-payment of rent, or otherwise, at their option, by giv
ing the requisite notice. The language of the grant was, "have
granted, demised, and to farm let." The words "grant" and
"demise" in a lease for years create an implied warranty of
title and a covenant for quiet enjoyment. Burney v. Keith,
4 Wend. 502; Grannis v. Clark, 8 Cow. 36; Young v. Hargrave's Adrn., 7 Ohio Rep., pt. 2, 68.
The declaration avers, "that, by virtue of -which said indenture, the said defendant immediately thereupon entered into the
occupancy and enjoyment of said premises and appurtenances,
and was possessed thereof until about the first day of October,
1869, when he vacated such possession and occupancy, and the
term of said lease was determined." This is not denied by the
defendant's pleas, and is, therefore, according to a settled rule
of the law of pleading, to be taken as admitted. The lessors
executed the lease in their own names, and not as agents.
They demised the premises in the same way. The rent was
stipulated to be paid to them in their own right. The covenants of the lessee were all to them personally. If there had
been a breach of the covenants of title and for quiet enjoyment, they would have been personally liable for the damages.
The lessee entered into possession, and remained in possession,
enjoying that possession as long as he chose to do so. He had,
on his part, the full benefit of the contract.
When called upon to pay and perform as he had covenanted
to do, he answered that the lessors had no title, and that he was
in no wise responsible to them.
In Laws v. Purser, 6 Eli. & Bl. 932, the plaintiff, a patentee, had licensed the defendant to manufacture the atticle
covered by the patent. After having done so, he refused to
pay the royalty. The patentee sued him. He pleaded "that
the letters-patent were void, and that he had a right to make
and sell the article without the plaintiff's permission." The
plaintiff demurred. The court said, "It would be monstrous

STOTT ET AL. V. RUTHERFORD.

[Sup. Ct.

if the defendant, after such an agreement acted upon, could on
this ground refuse payment." The demurrer was sustained.
There are two answers to the defence relied upon in this
case.
The recital in the lease as to the character in which the
lessors acted, and all that is said upon the subject in the bill
of exceptions, are not inconsistent with their holding the legal
title in trust to enable them the better to discharge the duties
touching the property with which they were clothed. Every
reasonable presumption is to be made in favor of the validity
of the instrument which they executed. The act done presupposes the prior act necessary to give it validity. It is not
stated in the bill of exceptions that the lessors had no paper
title, but. "that they possessed no estate whatever in said lands
except such as pertained to the office of such committee, and
have no estate therein in their individual capacity." The legal
title in trust would be just such an estate as is here exceptionally and negatively indicated. We are all of the opinion that
it is a fair inference from this language that the lessors had
such an"estate, or some other title in trust, sufficient to warrant
their giving the lease and to render it valid.
We think the principle, that the lessee cannot dispute the
title of his lessor, also applies. We see nothing to take the
case out of this long-settled and salutary rule. Williams v.
Mayor, &c., 6 H. & J. 529; Stewart v. Boderic, 4 W. & S.
189; Coburn v. -Palmer,8 Cush. 627. The rule applies with
peculiar force where the lessor was in possession, and transferred that possession upon his faith in the validity of the
lease to the lessee. Taylor's Land. and Ten., sect. 707.
Whether the testimony set forth in the bill of exceptions, as
to the title of the plaintiffs in error, was competent, is a questicn not raised before us, .and upon which we therefore express
nc opinion.
According to the views upon which the judgment below was
given, the lessee could not only refuse performance of all his
covenants, but, at the end of the term, he could have held
possession in defiance of his lessors, and he could have continued to hold possession until they showed a valid title in a
suit brought tc. enforce it, or until such a title in such a suit

Oct. 1875.]

HARRISON v.

]iYER,

EXECUTRIX.

was shown by some other party. This, we think, would be contrary alike to reason, justice, and the law.
Judgment reversed; and cause remanded with directions to
enter a judgment upon the verdict in favor of the plaintiffs
in

error.

HARRISON v. MYER, EXECUTRIX.
1. Certain premises in Louisiana, belonging to a citizen of that State, were,
during his absence therefrom, seized as abandoned property by the military
authorities of the United States, who compelled the lessee then in possession
to enter into a new lease, and to pay to them the rent thereafter due. Held,
that the owner could not recover of the lessee the rent for the period during
which he had paid it to the military authorities.
2. Where suit was commenced, Nov. 16, 1868, for rent claimed to be due up to
Aug. 8,1865, and where, throughout the whole intervening time, the district
within which the cause of action, if any arose, was under the control of the
Federal authorities, and the defendant could be served there with process,
-- Held, that the decision of the Supreme Court of the State, that the
suit was barred by the Statute of Limitations, is not subject to re-examination here.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana.
Mr. . C. Zabatt for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Thomas J. Durant and 31r. C. T7. Hornor, contra.
AIR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Certain brick tenements situated in New Orleans, and more

particularly described in the record, were, on the 18th of June,
1859, leased by the plaintiff to the testator of the defendant
for and during the full term of five years, to begin on the 1st
of October in the same year, and to terminate at the end of five
years from the commencement of the term; and, in considera-

tion thereof, the lessee covenanted and agreed to pay to the
lessor the annual rent of $2,000, payable in 'monthly instalments at the end of each and every month.

Monthly payments were punctually made from the expiration of the first month until the 1st of May, 1862, when he

ceased to make the required payments.

Pursuant to the lease.

