PHILLIPS V. PAYNE.

[Sul). Ot.

claimed, excused him from accountability to the plaintiff for
this amount; and. the Supreme Court of the State has so
decided.
To reverse this decision the present writ of error has been
brought.
We cannot distinguish this case from Beth~el v. Demaret,
10 Wall. 537; .Delmas v. Insurance Company, 14 id. 661; and
Tarver v. Keach, 15 id. 67. The State court has only decided,
that, upon principles of general law, a trustee cannot be held
responsible to his cestui que trust for the loss of a trust-fund, if
the loss has not been occasioned by his own laches or bad faith;
and that the delivery of the trust-fund in this case by the defendant into the hands of the Confederate authorities, under an
order which he dared not disobey, excused him from liability
to. the plaintiff. This is not a Federal question.
WMit of error dismissed.

PHMLIFs v. PAYNE.
Since 1847, pursuant to the act of Congress of the preceding year, the State of
Virginia has been in de facto possession of the county of Alexandria, which,
prior thereto, formed a part of the District of Columbia. The political department of her government has, since that date, uniformly asserted, and the
head of her judicial department expressly affirmed, her title thereto. Congress has, by more than one act, recognized the transfer as a settled fact. A
resident of that county, in a suit to recover the amount by him paid under
protest for taxes upon his property there situate, is, therefore, estopped from
raising the question as to the validity of the retrocession.

ERRo to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
Mr. W. 'Willoughby and 1Vr. IS. Shellabargerfor the plaintiff
in error.
Hr..B. T. Daniel, contra.
MR. JUSTICE SwArNs delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought to determine the validity of the retrocession by Congress to the State of Virginia of that part of the
District of Columbia, as originally constituted, which was ceded
by Virginia to the United States. The plaintiff in error was
the plaintiff in the court below. The case upon which'he relies is thus set forth in his declaration: -

0et. 1875.]

PMLZS v. PAYNE.

In pursuance of the Constitution of the United States, Virginia, by an act of her legislature of Dec. 3, 1789, ceded to the
United States that part of her territory subsequently known
as the county of Alexandria. Congress passed an act accepting
the cession. Maryland ceded to the United States the county
of Washington, and Congress accepted that cession also. The
two counties constituted a territory ten miles square, which
Congress set apart as the seat of the government of the United
States, and organized as the District of Columbia, over which
the Constitution of the United States required that Congress
should exercise exclusive legislation in all cases whatsoever.
Thereafter, on the 9th of July, 1846, Congress, in violation of
the Constitution, passed an act purporting to authorize a vote
to be taken by the people of Alexandria County to determine
whether the county should be retroceded to the State of Virginia, and declaring, that, in case a majority of the votes should
be cast in favor of retrocession, the county should be retroceded and for ever relinquished in full and absolute right and
jurisdiction. A majority of the votes were cast for retrocession: whereupon, without any further action by Congress, the
State of Virginia passed an act declaring that the county was
reannexed, and formed a part of the State. Since that time
the State has assumed to exercise full jurisdiction and control
over the county, and to authorize the election of officers for
the county, among whom is one known as the collector for the
township of Washington. The defendant was elected such
collector, and assumed to exercise the duties of his office. The
State has also assumed to enforce the assessment and collection
of taxes upon persons and property in the county. The plaintiff resides in the county, and owns a large amount of real estate
and other property there. The defendant alleged that an
assessment had been made upon this property; that there was
payable to him as such collector, upon the assessment, the sum
of 5165.18; and he demanded payment. In the event of refusal
to pay, he would have sold the property pursuant to the law of
the State. To prevent the sacrifice which this would have
involved, the plaintiff paid the money under protest; notifying
the defendant at the time that he regarded the exaction as
illegal and unauthorized, upon the ground that the county of

PHILLIPS V. PAYNE.

[Sup. 0t.

Alexandria was not within the jurisdiction of the State of Vir
ginia, but that it was within the District of Columbia. He avers
that the act of Congress of 1846, before mentioned, every thing
done under it, and the law of Virginia reannexing the county
to the State and extending her jurisdiction over it, are contrary
to the Constitution of the United States, and illegal and void.
He therefore claims to recover the amount so paid to the
collector.
The defendant demurred. The court below sustained the
demurrer, and gave judgment for the defendant.
The question presented for our determination is, whether
there was error in this ruling.
The law of prescription applies to nations with the same
effect as between individuals. Lawrence's Wheat. 308, 804;
Vattel, b. 2, c. 11, sects. 141, 146, 147, 149.
In cases involving the action of the political departments of
the government, the judiciary is bound by such action. Williams v. The Suffolk Ins. Co., 13 Pet. 420; aareia v. Lee, 12
-Pet. 511; Kennet v. Chamberlain,14 How. 88 ; Foster v. l elson, 2 Pet. 209; Nabob of the Carnatic v. The East Ind. Co.,
2 Ves., Jr., 60; Luther v. Borden, 7 How. 1; Rhode Island v.
Massachusetts, 12 Pet. 714.
The judiciary recognizes the condition of things with respect to the government of another country which once existed
as still subsisting, unless the political department of its own
government has decided otherwise. Kennet v. Chambers,
7 How. 38.
For certain purposes, the States of the Union are regarded as
foreign to each other. Buckner v. Finley, 2 Pet. 590; Warden
v. Arrel, 2 Wash. (Va.) 298.
Under certain circumstances, a constitutional provision may,
like a forfeiture, be waived by a party entitled to insist upon it.
6 Hill, 48; 24 Wend. 387; 3 Comst. 199, 511; 18 Barb. 585.
The acts of an officer de facto, within the sphere of the
powers and duties of the office he assumes to hold, are as valid
and binding with respect to the public And third persons as if
the had been done by an officer de jure. .Elwood v. Monk,
6 East, 285; King v. Corp. Bedford, 6 East, 868; Tucker v.
Aiken, 7 N. H. 184; Fowler v. Babe, 9 Mass. 281; Com. v.

Oct. 1875.]

PHILLIPS V. PAYNE.

Fowler, 10 id. 291; People v. Collins, 7 J. R. 549. These
propositions were referred to in the discussion at the bar, and
we have not overlooked them.
But we do not invoke their aid, and have found it unnecessary
to consider the effect of either of them in this case.
We shall place our judgment upon another and a different
ground, and shall confine our further remarks to that subject.
The State of Virginia is de facto in possession of the territory in question. She has been in possession, and her title and
possession have been undisputed, since she resumed possession,
in 1847, pursuant to the act of Congress of the preceding year.
More than a quarter of a century has since elapsed. During
all that time, she has exercised jurisdiction over the territory in
all respects as before she ceded it to the United States. She
does not complain of the retrocession. The political departments of her government, by their conduct, have uniformly
asserted her title; and the head of her judicial department has
expressly affirmed it. lcLaughlin v. The Banc of Potomac,
7 Gratt. 68. The United States have not objected. lNo
murmur of discontent has been heard from them: on the
contrary, Congress, by more than one act, has recognized the
transfer as a settled and valid fact. Act of July 5, 1848, c. 92,
9 Stat. 244; Act of Feb. 2, 1871, c. 33, 16 Stat. 402; Rev. Stat.
U. S., sect. 1795. Both parties to the transaction have been and
still are entirely satisfied. If the objection taken by the plaintiff in error were maintained in the length and breadth insisted
upon, serious consequences would follow. In that view, a part
of them would be that all laws of the State' passed since the
retrocession, as regards the county of Alexandria, were void;
taxes have been illegally assessed and collected; the election of
public officers, 'and the payment of their salaries, were without
warrant of law ; public accounts have been improperly settled;
all sentences, judgments, and decrees of the courts were nullities, and those who carried them into execution are liable
civilly, and perhaps criminally, according to the nature of what
they have severally done.
A government de facto, in firm possession of any country, is
clothed, while it exists, with the same rights, powers, and duties,
both at home and abroad, as a government de jure. It may

PHILLIPS V. PAYNE.

[sirp. et.

send ambassadors and make treaties. Such treaties bind the
nation and descend in full force upon any succeeding government that may be established. The assailants of a king de
facto in England are liable to be punished for treason. Such
was the rule of the common law, and the celebrated statute of
Henry VII. only reaffirmed it. The legislative and judicial
authorities called into existence may proeeed as if the prior
government had not been displaced. All municipal functions
may be performed -without regard to the origin of the new
polity. Cromwell's ambassadors were received everywhere.
Hale accepted from him the place of a judge of the common
pleas. After the Restoration, Charles. II. made him Chief
Baron of the Exchequer, and subsequently Chief Justice of the
King's Bench. The Code Napoleon was the work of a ruler
whose government rose amid the ruins of a revolution, and
was subsequently overthrown. The governments of both these
rulers were doubtless regarded by the other governments of
Europe as only de facto. Whether they were or were not
de "urealso is a question, which, in this case, it is unnecessary
to consider.
In all cases where the United States have been called upon
to recognize the existence of the government or the independence of any other country, they have looked only to the fact,
and not to the right. Such has been the uniform course of our
government. 1 Kent's Com. (Comst. ed.), 170; Vattel, b. 2,
c. 12, sects. 196, 197; id., b. 4, c. 2, sects. 14, 18; 1 Hale's
P. C. 101; Foster's Crown Law, pp. 397, 899; Camp. Lives of
Ch. Justices, 526; Lawrence's Wheat. 49, note ; id. 471, note.
The plaintiff in error is estopped from raising the point
which he seeks to have decided. He cannot, under the circumstances, vicariously raise a question, nor force upon the parties
to the compact an issue which neither of them desires to
make.
In this litigation we are constrained to regard the de facto
condition of things which exists with reference to the county
of Alexandria as conclusive of the rights of the parties before

us.

Judgment affirmed.

