Oct. 1875.]

STATE RAILROAD TAx CASES.

authorizing consolidations, and declaring that the company
formed from two companies should be entitled to all the powers,
rights, privileges, and immunities which belong to either; and
it is contended that this provision of the law justified the County
Court in making the subscription, without further authority from
the people of the township. But did not the authority cease
by the extinction of the company voted for ? No subscription
had been made. No vested right had accrued to the company.
The case of the State v. Linn County Court, sup ra, only decides, that, if the County Court refuses to issue bonds after
making a subscription, a mandamus will lie to compel it to
issue them. There the authority had been executed, and a
right had become vested. But, so long as it remains unexecuted,
the occurrence of any event which creates a revocation in law
will extinguish the power. The extinction of the company in
whose favor the subscription was authorized worked such a
revocation. The law authorizing the consolidation of railroad
companies does not change the law of attorney and constituent.
It may transfer the vested rights of one railroad company to
another, upon a consolidation being effected; but it does not
continue in existence powers to subscribe for stock given by
one person to another, which, by the general law, are extinguished by such a change. It does not profess to do so, and
we think that it does not do so by implication.
As sufficient notice of these objections is contained in the
recitals of the bonds themselves to put the holder on inquiry,
we think that there was no error in the judgment of the Circuit
Court.
Judgment affirmed.

STATE RAILROAD TAX CASES.
TAYLOR, COLLECTOR, ET AL., V. SECOR BT AL.
MILLER, COLLECTOR, ET AL., V. JESSUP ET AL.

MILLER, COLLECTOR, ET AL., V. KIDDER ET AL.
. While this court does not lay down any absolute rule limiting the powers a
a court of equity in restraining the collection of taxes, it declares~that it is
essential that every case be brought within some of the recognized rules of
equity jurisdiction, and that neither illegality or irregularity in the proceed-

STATE RAILROAD TAX CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

ings, nor error or excess in the valuation, nor the hardship or injustice of
the law, provided itbe constitutional, nor any grievance which can be remedied by a suit at law, either before or after the payment of the tax, will
authorize an injunction against its collection.
2. This rule is founded on the principle that the levy of taxes is a legislative
and not a judicial function, and the court can neither make nor cause to be
made a new assessment if the one complained of be erroneous, and also in
the necessity that the taxes, without which the State could not exist,
should be regularly and promptly paid into its treasury.
8. Qumre: Whether the same rigid rule against equitable relief would apply to
taxes levied solely by municipal corporations for corporate purposes as
that here applied to State taxes. Probably not.
4. No injunction, preliminary or final, can be granted to stay collection of taxes
until itis shown that all the taxes conceded to be due, or which the court
can see ought to be paid, or which can be shown to be due by affidavits,
have been paid or tendered without demanding a receipt in full.
6. While the Constitution of Illinois requires taxation, in general, to be uniform
and equal, it declares, in express terms, that a large class of persons engaged in special pursuits, among whom are persons or corporations owning
franchises and privileges, may be taxed as the legislature shall determine,
by a general law, unlform as to the class upon which it operates; and under this
provision a statute is not unconstitutional which prescribes a different
rule of taxation for railroad companies from that for individuals.
6. Nor does it violate any provision of the Constitution of the United States.
7. The capital stock, franchises, and all the real and personal property of corporations, are justly liable to taxation; and a rule which ascertains the value
of all this, by ascertaining the cash value of the funded debt and of the
shares of the capital stock as the basis of assessment, is probably as fair as
any other.
9. Deducting from this the assessed value of all the tangible real and personal
property, which is also taxed, leaves the real value of the capital stock and
franchise subject to taxation as justly as any other mode, all modes being
more or less imperfect.
9. It is neither in conflict with the Constitution of Illinois, nor inequitable, that
the entire taxable property of the railroad company should be ascertained
by the State board of equalization, and that the state, county, and city
taxes should be collected within each municipality on this assessment, in
the proportion which the length of the road within such municipality bears
to the whole length of the road within the State.
10. The action of the board of equalization, in increasing the assessed value of
the property of a railroad company or an individual above the return made
to the board, does not require a notice to the party to make it valid; and
the courts cannot substitute their judgment as to such valuation for that of
the board.
11. The Supreme Court of the State of Illinois having decided that the law
complained of in these cases is valid under her constitution, and having
construed the statute, this court adopts the decision of that court as a rule
to be followed in the Federal courts.
APPEALS from the Circuit Court of the United States fcr the
Northern District of Illinois.

Oct. 1875.]

STATE RAILROAD TAX CASES.

These were bills of injunction to restrain the collection of
taxes assessed on certain railroads in the State of Illinois, and,
aq they raised the same questions of law, were heard together.
The complainants in the first-mentioned case are trustees and
mortgagees of the Toledo, Peoria, and Warsaw Railroad Company; in the second, stockholders in the Chicago and Alton
Railroad Company; and in the third, stockholders in the
Chicago, Burlington, and Quincy Railroad Company.
To a proper understanding of the questions raised, reference
is necessary to the following provisions of the constitution and
statutes of the State of Illinois.
Sects. 1, 6, 9. and 10 of art. 9, and sect. 10 of art. 11, of the
constitution, declare: "ART. 9, SEC.

1. The general assembly shall provide such rev

enue as may be needful by levying a tax, by valuation, so that
every person and corporation shall pay a tax in proportion to the
value of his, her, or its property, -such value to be ascertained by
some person or persons, to be elected or appointed in such manner
as the general assembly shall direct, and not otherwise; but the general assembly shall have power to tax pedlers, auctioneers, brokers,
hawkers, merchants, commission-merchants, showmen, jugglers, innkeepers, grocery-keepers, liquor-dealers, toll-bridges, ferries, insurance, telegraph, and express interests or business, vendors of patents,
and persons or corporations owning or using franchises and privileges, in such manner as it shall, from time to time, direct by general
law, uniform as to the class upon which it operates."
"SECT. 6. The general assembly shall have no power to release
or discharge any county, city, township, town, or district whatever,
or the inhabitants thereof, or the property therein, from their or
its proportionate share of taxes to be levied for State purposes; nor
shall commutation for such taxes be authorized in any form whatever."
"SECT. 9. The general assembly may vest the corporate authorities of cities, towns, and villages, with power to make local
improvements by special assessment or by special taxation of contiguous property, or otherwise. For all other corporate purposes,
all municipal corporations may be vested with authority to assess
and collect taxes; but such taxes shall be uniform in respect to
persons and property within the jurisdiction of the body imposing
the same.
VOL. ii.

37

STATE RAILROAD TAX CASES.

[Sup. Ot.

" SECT. 10. The general assembly shall not impose taxes upon
mnunicipal corporations, or the inhabitants or property thereof, for
corporate purposes, but shall require that all the taxable property
within the limits of municipal corporations shall be taxed for the
payment of debts contracted under authority of law, such taxes to
be uniform in respect to persons and property within the jurisdiction of the body imposing the same."

"ART. 11,

SECT.

10. The rolling-stock and all other movable prop-

erty belonging to any railroad company or corporation in this State
shall be considered personal property."
"An Act for the assessment of property and for the collection of taxes," approved March 30, 1872, in force July 1, 1872,
among other provisions contains the following: "SECT. 3. Personal property shall be valued as follows : -

"FYirst All personal property, except as herein otherwise directed, shall be valued at its fair cash value.
"SBecond, Every credit, for a sum certain, payable either in
money or labor, shall be valued at a fair cash value for the sum so
payable; if for any article of property, or for labor, or services of
any kind, it shall be valued at the current price of such property,
labor, or service.
" Third, Annuities and royalties shall be valued at their then
present total value.
".Fourth, The capital stock of all companies and associations,
now or hereafter created under the laws of this State, shall be
so valued by the State board of equalization as to ascertain and
determine, respectively, the fair cash value of such capital stock,
including the franchise, over and above the assessed value of the
tangible property of such company or association. Said board
shall adopt such rules and principles for ascertaining the fair cash
value of such capital stock as to it may seem equitable and just;
and such rules and principles, when so adopted, if not inconsistent
with this act, shall be as binding and of the same effect as if contained in this act, subject, however, to such change, alteration, or
amendment as may be found, from time to time, to be necessary
by said board : Provided,that, in all cases where the tangible property or capital stock of any company or association is assessed under
this act, the shares of capital stock of any such company or association shall not be assessed or taxed in this State. This clause
shall not apply to the capital stock, or shares of capital stock, of
banks organized under the general banking laws of this State."

Oct. 1875.]

STATE RAILROAD TAX CASES.

"SECT. 6. Personal property shall be listed in the manner fol

lowing:"Eighth, The property of a body politic or corporate, by the
president, or proper agent or officer thereof."
"SECT. 7. Personal property, except such as is required in this
act to be listed and assessed otherwise, shall be listed and assessed
in the county, town, city, village, or district where the owner
resides. The capital stock and franchises of corporations and persons, except as may be otherwise provided, shall be listed and taxed
in the county, town, district, city, or village where the principal
office or place of business of such corporation or person is located
in this State."
" SECT. 26. Whenever the assessor shall be of opinion that tile

person listing property for himself, or for any other person, company, or corporation, has not made a full, fair, and complete schedule
of such property, he may examine such person under oath in regard to the amount of property he is required to schedule; and for
that purpose he is authorized to administer oaths: and if such person shall refuse to answer under oath, and a full discovery make,
the assessor may list the property of such person, or his principal,
according to his best judgment and information."
" SECT. 40. Every person, company, or corporation, owning,

operating, or constructing a railroad in this State, shall return sworn
lists or schedules of the taxable property of such railroad, as hereinafter provided. Such property shall be listed and assessed with
reference to the amount, kind, and value on the first day of May of
the year in which it is listed."
" SECT. 41. They shall, in the month of May of the year eighteen
hundred and seventy-three, and at the same time in each year thereafter, when required, make out and file with the county-clerks of
the respective counties in which the railroad may be located, a
statement or schedule showing the property held for right of way,
and the length of the main and all side and second tracks and
turnouts in such county, and in each city, town, and village in,the
county, through or into which the road may run, and describing
each tract of land, other than a city, town, or village lot, through
which the road may run, in accordance with the United States surveys, giving the width and length of the strip of land held in each
tract, and the number of acres there'of. They shall also state the
value of improvements and stations located on the right of way.
New companics shall ."ake such statement in May next after the

STATE RAILROAD TAX CASES.

[Sul). Ct.

location of their.roads. When such statement shall have been once
made, it shall not be necessary to report the description as hereinbefore required, unless directed so to do by the county board; but
the company shall, during the month of May, annually, ieport the
value of such property by the description set forth in the next seetion of this act, and note all additions or changes in such right of
way as shall have occurred.
" SECT. 42. Such right of way, including the superstructures of
main, side, or second tracks and turnouts, and the stations and iprovements of the railroad company on such right of way, shall be
held to be real estate for the purposes of taxation, and denominated
'railroad track,' and shall be so listed and valued; and shall be
described in the assessment thereof as a strip of land extending
on each side of such railroad track, and embracing the same,
together with all the stations and improvements thereon, commencing at a point where such railroad track crosses the boundary
line in entering the county, city, town, or village, and extending
to the point where such track crosses the boundary line leaving
such county, city, town, or village, or to the point of termination
acres, more or
in the same, as the case may be, containing -less (inserting name of county, township, city, town, or village,
boundary line of same, and number of acres, and length in feet) ;
and, when advertised or sold for taxes, no other description shall
be necessary.
" SECT. 48. The value of the ' railroad track' shall be listed
and taxed in the several counties, towns, villages, districts, and
cities in the proportion that the length of the main track in such
county, town, village, district, or city bears to the whole length
of the road in this State, except the value of the side or second
track, and all turnouts, and all station-houses, d~pats, machineshops, or other buildings belonging to the road, which shall be
taxed in the county, town, village, district, or city in which the
same are located.
"SECT. 44. The movable property belonging to a railroad company shall be held to be personal property, and denominated, for
the purpose of taxation, 'rolling-stock.' Every person, company,
or corporation, owning, constructing, or operating a railroad in this
State, shall, in the month of May, annually, return a list or schedule, which shall contain a correct detailed inventory of all the
rolling-stock belonging to such company, and which shall distinctly set forth the number of locomotives of all classes, passenger cars of all classes, sleeping and dining cars, express cars.

Oct. 1875.]

STATE RAILROAD TAx OASES.

baggage cars, house cars, cattle cars, coal cars, platform cars,
wrecking cars, pay cars, hand cars, and all other kinds of cars.
"SECT. 45. The rolling-stock shall be listed and taxed in the
several counties, towns, villages, districts, and cities, in the proportion that the length of the main track, used or operated in such
county, town, village, district, or city, bears to the whole length of
the road used or operated by such person, company, or corporation,
whether owned or leased by him or them, in whole or in part. Said
list or schedule shall set forth the number of miles of main track
on which said rolling-stock is used in the State of Illinois, and the
number of miles of main track on which said rolling-stock is used
elsewhere.
"SECT. 46. The tools and materials for repairs, and all other
personal property of any railroad, except ' rolling-stock,' shall be
listed and assessed in the county, town, village, district, or city
wherever the same may be on the first day of May. All real estate,
including the stations and other.buildings and structures thereon,
other than that denominated ' railroad track,' belonging to any
railroad, shall be listed as lands, or lots, as the case may be, in the
county, town, village, district, or city where the same are located.
"SECT. 47. The county-clerk shall return to the assessor of the
town or district, as the case may require, a copy of the schedule or
list of the real estate (other than 'railroad track'), and of the personal property (except ' rolling-stock'), pertaining to the railroad;
and such real and personal property shall be assessed by the assessor. Such property shall be treated in all respects, in regard to
assessment and equalization, the same as other similar property
belonging to individuals; except that it shall be treated as property
belonging to railroads, under the terms 'lands,' ' lots,' and ' personal property.'
"SECT. 48. At the same time that the lists or schedules are hereinbefore required to be returned to the county-clerks, the person,
company, or corporation, running, operating, or constructing any
railroad in this State, shall return to the auditor of public accounts
sworn statements or schedules, as follows: "1Mirst,Of the property denominated ' railroad track,' giving
the length of the main and side or second tracks and turnouts, and
showing the proportions in each county, and the total in the State.
"Secondl, The 'rolling-stock,' giving the length of the main
track in each county, the total in this State, and the entire length
of the road.
"Titird, Showing the number of ties in track per mile, the

STATE RAILROAD TAX CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

weight of iron or steel per yard, used in main and side tracks;
what joints or chairs are used in track; the ballasting of road,
whether gravelled or dirt; the number and quality of buildings or
other structures on 'railroad track;' the length of time iron in
track has been used, and the length of time the road has been built.
"'ourth, A statement or schedule showing, "1. The amount of capital stock authorized, and the number of
shares into which such capital stock is divided.
"2. The amount of capital stock paid up.
"3. The market value, or, if no market value, then the actual
value, of the shares of stock.
"4. The total amount of all indebtedness, except for current expenses for operating the road.
"5. The total listed valuation of all its tangible property in this
State.
" Such schedule shall be made in conformity to such instructions
and forms as may be prescribed by the auditor of public accounts.
" SE cT. 49. If

any person, company, or corporation, owning,

operating, or constructing any railroad, shall neglect to return to
the county-clerks the statements or schedules required to be re,
turned to them, the property so to be returned and assessed by the
assessor shall be listed and assessed as other property. In case of
failure to make returns to the auditor, as hereinbefore provided,
the auditor, with the assistance of the county-clerks and assessors,
when he shall require such assistance, shall ascertain the necessary
facts, and lay the same before the State board of equalization. In
case of failure to make said statements, either to the county-clerk
or auditor, such corporation, company, or person shall forfeit, as a
penalty, not less than one thousand nor more than ten thousand
dollars for each offence, to be recovered in any proper form of
action, in the name of the ' People of the State of Illinois,' and
paid into the State treasury.
"SECT. 50. The auditor shall annually, on the meeting of the
State board of equalization, lay before said board the statements and
schedules herein required to be returned to him; and said board
shall assess such property in the manner hereinafter provided.
"SECT. 51. The county-clerk shall procure, at the expense of the
county, a record-book, properly ruled and headed, in which to enter
the railroad property of all kinds, as listed for taxation, and shall
enter the valuations as assessed, corrected, and equalized, in the
manner provided by this act; and against such assessed, corrected,
oT equailized valuation, as the case may require, the county-clerk

Oct. 1875.]

STATE RAILROAD TAX CASES.

shall extend all the taxes thereon, for which said property is liable;
and, at the proper time fixed by this act for delivering tax-books to
the county collector, the clerk shall attach a warrant, under his seal
of office, and deliver said book to the county collector, upon which
the said county collector is hereby required to collect the taxes
therein charged against railroad property, and pay over and account
for the same in the manner provided in other cases. Said book
shall be returned by the collector, and be filed in the office of the
county-clerk for future use."
" SECT. 78. The assessor or his deputy shall . . . call at the

office, place of doing business, or residence of each person required
by this act to list property, and list his name, and shall require such
person to make a correct statement of his taxable property in
accordance with the provisions of this act; and the person listing
the property shall enter a true and correct statement of such property, in the form prescribed by this act, which shall be signed and
sworn to, to the extent required by this act, by the person listing
the property, and delivered to the assessor; and the assessor shall
thereupon assess the value of such property, and enter the same in
his books.
"SECT. 79. If any person required by this act to list property
shall be sick or absent when the assessor calls for a list of his property, the assessor shall leave at the office, or uisual place of residence
or business of such person, a written or printed notice requiring
such person to make out and leave at the place named therein the
statement or schedule required by this act. The date of leaving
such notice, and the name of the person required to list the property, shall be carefully noted by the assessor in a book to be kept
for that purpose."
"SECT. 82. When the personal property of any person is assessable in several school districts, the amount in each shall be assessed
separately, and the name of the owner placed opposite each amount."
" SECT. 86. In counties under township organization, the assessor, clerk, and supervisor of the town, shall meet on the fourth
Monday of June, for the purpose of reviewing the assessment of
property in such town. And on the application of any person considering himself aggrieved, or who shall complain that the property
of another is assessed too low, they shall review the assessment,
and correct the same as shall appear to them just. No complaint
that another is assessed too low shall be acted upon until the person
so assessed, or his agent, shall be notified of such complaint, if a
resident of the county."

584

STATE RAILROAD TAx CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

" SECT. 97. The county board, at a meeting to be held for the
purpose contemplated in this section, on the second Monday in
July, annually, after the return of the assessment-books, shall, "2. On the application of any person considering himself aggrieved, or who shall complain that the property of another is
assessed too low, they shall review the assessment and correct the
same as shall appear to be just. No complaint that another is
assessed too low shall be acted upon until the person so assessed,
or his agent, shall be notified of such complaint, if a resident of the
- Junty.

"4. . . . If the county board of any county shall find the aggregate assessment of the county is too high or too low, or is generally
so unequal as to render it impracticable to equalize such assessment fairly, they may set aside the assessment of the whole county,
or of any township or townships therein, and order a new assessment, with instructions to the assessors to increase or diminish the
aggregate assessment of such county or township, as the case may
be, by such an amount as said board may deem right and just
in the premises, and consistent with this act."
. "SECT. 100. The State board of equalization shall, at the expiration of the term of office of the members now forming said board,
consist of one member from each congressional district in the State,
elected as hereinafter provided, and the auditor of public accounts.
" SECT. 101. The qualified electors of each congressional district shall, at the general election in November, 1872, and every
four years thereafter, elect one of their number to serve as a member of said board of equalization, who shall hold his office for four
years, and until his successor is elected and qualified."
"SECT. 105. Said board shall assemble at the State capital on
the second Tuesday in the month of August, annually, and examine
the abstracts of property assessed for taxation in the several
counties of this State, as returned to the auditor, and shall equalize
the assessments as hereinafter provided; but said board shall not
reduce the aggregate assessed valuation in the State; neither shall
it increase said aggregate valuation, except in such an amount as
may be reasonably necessary to a just equalization, and not exceeding one per cent on such aggregate assessed valuation; but this
rule shall not apply to railroad property.
"SECT. 106. Said board, in equalizing the valuation of property
as listed and assessed in the different counties, shall consider the

Oct. 1875.]

STATE RAILROAD

TAX CASES.

following classes of property separately: viz., personal property;
railroad and telegraph property; lands, and town and city lots;
and, upon such consideration, determine such rates of addition to or
deduction from the listed or assessed valuation of each of said
classes of property in each county, or to or from the aggregate
assessed value of each of said classes in the State, as may be
deemed by the board to be equitable and just, - such rates being
in all cases even and not fractional; and such rates, as finally determined by said board, shall not be combined."
"SECT. 108. The State board of equalization shall assess the
capital stock of each company or association, respectively, now or
hereafter incorporated under the laws of this State, in the manner
hereinbefore in this act provided. The respective assessments so
made (other than of the capital stock of railroad and telegraph
companies) shall be certified by the auditor, under direction of
said board, to the county-clerk of the respective counties in which
such companies or associations are located; and said clerk shall extend
the taxes for all purposes on the respective amounts so certified the
same as maybe levied on the other property in such towns, districts,
villages, or cities in which such companies or associations are located.
"SECT. 109. Said board shall also assess the railroad property
denominated in this act as 'railroad track' and Irolling-stock;'
and said board is hereby given the power and authority, by committee or otherwise, to examine persons and papers. The amount
so determined and assessed shall be certified by the auditor to the
county-clerks of the proper counties. The county-clerk shall, in
like manner, distribute the value, so certified to him by the auditor,
to the county and to the several towns, districts, villages, and
cities in his county entitled to a proportionate value of such ' rail.
road track ' and ' rolling-stock And said clerk shall extend taxes
against such values, the same as against other property in such
towns, districts, villages, and cities.
"SECT. 110. The aggregate amount of capital stock of rail
road or telegraph companies assessed by said board shall be distributed proportionately by said board to the several counties in
like manner that the property of railroads denominated 'railroad
track I is distributed. The amount so determined shall be certified
Dy the auditor to the county-clerks of the proper counties. The
county-clerk shall, in like manner, distribute the value, so certified
to him by the auditor, to the county and to the several towns, districts, villages, and cities in his county entitled to proportionate
value of such capital stock And said cleik shall extend taxes

STATE RAILROAD TAX CASES.

[Sup. 0t.

against such values the same as against other property in such
towns, districts, villages, and cities."
"SE cT. 114. When said board shall have completed its equaliza
tion of assessments for any year, the chairman and secretary shall
certify to the auditor the rates finally determined by said board to
be added to or deducted from the listed or assessed valuation of each
class of property in the several counties, and also the amounts asses.sed by said board; and it shall be the duty of said auditor, under
his seal of office, to report the action of the board to the several
county-clerks, immediately after the adjournment of said board."'
"SECT. 126. Said clerks shall extend the rates of addition or
deduction ordered by the county board and State board of equalization, in the several columns provided for that purpose. The rate
per cent ordered by the State board of equalization shall be extended on the assessed valuation of property, as corrected and
equalized by the county board; except that, in the case of railroad
property denominated 'railroad track' and 'rolling-stock,' said
rates shall be extended on the listed valuations of such designated
property." Rev. Stat. of Illinois, 1874, p. 857 et seq.
The State board of equalization, for the purpose of asceltaining the fair cash value of the capital stock and franchises
of corporations in excess of the value of their tangible property, adopted the following rules :"WHRFA s, the fourth clause of sect. 3 of ' An Act for the assessment of property, and for the levy and collection of taxes,' approved March 80, 1872, in force July 1,1872, provides as follows: "' SECT. 8 .. . . Fourth, The capital stock of all companies
and associations. now or hereafter created under the laws of this
State shall be so valued by the State board of equalization as to
ascertain and determine, respectively, the fair cash value of such
capital stock, including the franchise, over and above the assessed
value of the tangible property of such company or association.
Said board shall adopt such rules and principles for ascertaining
the fair cash value of such capital stock as to it may seem equitable
and just; and such rules and principles, when so adopted, if not
inconsistent with this act, shall be as binding, and of the same
effect, as if contained in this act, subject, however, to such change,
alteration, or amendment as may be found, from time to time, to be
necessaryby said board : -Provided,that in all cases where tl~e tangible property or capital stock of any company or association is
assessed under this act, the shares of capital stock of any such com.

Uct. 1875.]

STATE RAILROAD TAx CASES.

pany or association shall not be assessed or taxed in this State.
This clause shall not apply to the capital stock or shares of capital
stock of banks organized under the general banking laws of thia
State'; therefore be it
"Resolved, That for the purpose of ascertaining the fair cash
value of the capital stock, including the franchise, of all companies
and associations now or hereafter created under the laws of this
State, and for the assessment of the same, or so much thereof as
may be found to be in excess of the assessed or equalized value of
the tangible property of such companies and associations, respectively, we, the State board of equalization, hereby adopt the following rules and principles, viz.: " first, The market or fair cash value of the shares of capital
stock, and the market or fair cash value of the debt (excluding
from such debt the indebtedness for current expenses), shall be
combined or added together; and the aggregate amount so ascertained shall be taken and held to be the fair cash value of the capital stock, including the franchise, respectively, of such companies
and associations.
"Second, From the aggregate amount ascertained as aforesaid
there shall be deducted the aggregate amount of the equalized or
• ssessed valuation of all the tangible property, respectively, of such
companies and associations (such equalized or assessed valuation
being taken, in each case, as the same may be determined by the
equalization or assessment of property by this board); and the
amount remaining, in each case, if any, shall be taken and held to
be the amount and fair cash value of the capital stock, including
the franchise, which this board is required by law to assess, respectively, against companies and associations now or hereafter created
under the laws of this State?'
The bill, in the first-mentioned case, alleges that the Toledo,
Peoria, and Warsaw Railroad Company returned to the clerks
of the respective counties in which said railroad was located,
and to the auditor, sworn lists or schedules of all its property,
as required by law; that after said schedules were filed with
the respective county-clerks, the town and county assessors,
without authority of law and without notice to the company,
made additions to the schedules of property returned by it.
That the respective county boards of equalization made further
additions. and caused equalized assessments, made by them, to

STATE RAILROAD TAX OASES.

[Sup. Ct.

be ret arned to the respective county-clerks, who certified an
abstract thereof to the auditor; that said returns were by the
auditor laid before the State board of equalization; that said
State board added to and deducted from the assessed valuations of personal property and lands, returned to said auditor,
without making any re-assessment of said property; that the
only reason for making said additions and deductions was to
equalize the assessed value of said property with the assessed
value of the same class of property in other counties, which
valuation so made without regard to the value of such property separately from the class in which the same was placed
is charged to be in violation of the State constitution; that
the value of said "railroad track," as returned to the county
clerks and auditor, was $648,436.41, which was distributed to
the several counties in which said railroad track is located,
according to the value of the same in each of said counties;
that the State board of equalization assessed the value of said
"railroad track" at $1,629,556, and pretended to distribute the
same to the several counties, without regard to the actual value
of said property in said several counties, but according to the
length of the track in the same; but, in fact, distributed the
said sum neither according to the actual value in the several
counties, nor according to the length of the main track in the
same; that the value per mile of the right of way, iron and
steel rails, bridging, &c., is different in different counties, and
that by reason of the distribution of the assessed value of said
railroad track as made by the said State board, said railway
company is liable to be taxed in one county on property owned
in another; that the taxes in different counties, towns, &c.,
are widely different, and cannot be made on an assessment as
made by the State board, so as to be uniform as to property
within the jurisdiction imposing the same, as required by the
State constitution; that the aggregate listed value of the rolling-stock as returned to the auditor was $388,039, and the
aggregate value of same as assessed by State board of equalization was $1,000,110, distributed among the several bounties
on the mileage principle; that the bonded debt of said railway
company on the 1st of May, 1873, was $7,184,719.37; that said
board of equalization assessed said railway company the sum

Oct. 1875.]

STATE RAILROAD TAX OASES.

of $2,003,415 as and for the value of its capital stock, includig its franchise over and above the assessed value of its tangible property, and distributed the same to the several counties
on the mileage principle; that said board of equalization, in
ascertaining the value of said capital stock and franchise, included the debt of said railway company, in accordance with
the rule adopted by said board; that all of said pretended
equalizations of tangible property, and assessments by said
State board of equalization, were made without notice to said
railway company; that the general assembly of the State
could not delegate its authority to prescribe a rule uniform in
operation for the taxation of franchises to the State board of
equalization in the manner provided by the statute, nor provide for the election of persons to ascertain the value of the
property of one class of persons, and elect or appoint other
persons to ascertain the value of the property of other classes
of persons; that said act allowed the equalization to be made
by vote of a minority of the members of said board, and in
these respects is in violation of the State constitution; that
said franchise was not assessed apart from the capital stock,
but is so intermingled therewith that the same cannot be separated, which makes the entire assessment void; that the capital stock and capital of a corporation are distinct and different;
that the capital stock belongs to the stockholders, and cannot
be assessed against the corporation, but said act requires not
only the capital of corporations to be assessed, but their capital
stock to be assessed to the corporation in addition thereto, and
that the distribution of the amount required to be assessed for
capital stock, as required by said act, is in violation of the constitution requiring county, city, &c., taxes to be uniform within
the jurisdiction of the body imposing the same. The bill further alleges that such proceedings have taken place; that the
collectors of the various counties are threatening to collect the
taxes assessed against said railway company as aforesaid; that
the capital stock of said railway company on the first day of
May, 1878, was worthless; that the complainants are willing
to pay so much of said taxes as have been legally assessed
against said company, but they are unable to ascertain such
amount ; that they are trustees for the holders of certain bonds

STATE RAILROAD TAx CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

mentioned in a deed of trust or mortgage given by said Toledo,
Peoria, and Warsaw Railway Company upon its property; that
on the third day of February, 1874, in pursuance of the terms
of said trust-deed, they took possession of said railway and its
other property, and on the 14th of February, 1874, filed their
bill to foreclose said mortgage, in this court, which suit is still
pending. The bill alleges that other liens are also existing
against said railway company; that its bonded debt, secured
by mortgages, amounts to $6,450,000; that its entire franchises
and property are not worth to exceed $1,088,749; that its net
earnings have never been sufficient to pay the.interest on its
debt; that its capital stock is of no real value, and the assessment thereof at $2,013,415 is illegal .and void; that the said
board of equalization did not equalize the property of said railway company with all other personal property in the State of
like character, nor its lands, lots, right of way, and other real
estate, with all other lands, lots, and real estate of like character in the State, but pretended to equalize said personal
property owned by like corporations, and said real estate
owned by-like corporations; that the rates of taxation are different in each and all of the counties, towns, and municipalities through which the said railway runs; and prays that the
said railway company may be enjoined from paying, and the
other defendants from collecting, any of said taxes.
The defendants, except the railway company which was defaulted, filed an answer denying that in the lists and schedules
filed by the railway company its property was valued at its
fair cash value; or that it was listed and scheduled in the
manner required by law, in this, that certain real estate was
listed and scheduled as railroact track, which was used for stations or other purposes than railroad track, which real estate
was subsequently assessed by the local town and county assessors, as was their duty, as real estate other than railroad track;
and said assessors in like manner assessed the tangible personal property of said railway company, and none other, in
their respective localities, which did not form part of the rolling-stock of said company. Defendants deny that any portion
of the property of said company was doubly assessed; admit
the equalization by the county and State boards, but deny that

Oct. 1875.]

STATE RAILROAD TAx CASES.

the State board, in the assessment of the right of way or railroad
track and improvements thereon, took into consideration the
increased value of such right of way, arising from the fact
that the same had been graded, and bridges and culverts built
thereon, as it was believed such increased value could be more
fairly and equitably ascertained in the assessment of capital
stock ; deny that the State board distributed the assessed value
of said railway track among the various counties, &c., in any
other manner than as required by law. Defendants admit that
the rate of taxation for local purposes is different in the different municipal corporations through which the road passes; that
the State board of equalization adopted and acted on the rules
set forth in the bill in the assessment of the capital stock, including the franchises of said railway company; and that said
board did not attempt to make an assessment of the value of
the franchises as separate from the assessment under the designation "capital stock," but that the same was included in said
assessment under that designation; admit no other notice was
given of the proceedings of said board, than such as the law
gives; deny that said State board made an arbitrary addition
or deduction to the assessed value of the property in the respective counties without any regard to the actual value, and
allege that said board examined the abstracts of property assessed for taxation by the various local assessors of the State,
as returned to the auditor, and ascertained as nearly as was
practicable the necessary rates of addition and deduction to
be made to the assessed value of the several classes of property
as equalized by the various county boards, to make a just equalization of the assessed value of property between the respective
counties throughout the State; deny that said State board distributed to any county any greater portion of the aggregate
value of thn railroad track of said company than the value of
the portion of such track actually situated in such county, and
deny that the action of said State board resulted in the assessment of property of said company for taxation in one county,
which was in fact situate in another county; admit that such
proceedings have taken place, that the taxes as alleged in said
bill have been extended upon said equalized assessments, and
that the collectors in the various counties threaten to collect

STATE RAILROAD

TAx CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

the same, except as to i of the State tax levied and extended
upon said assessment, under the act of April 16, 1869, entitled
"An Act to fund and provide for the paying of the railroad
debt of counties, townships, cities, and towns," which I of the
State tax was after the same was levied and extended in a case
involving the validity of the act of April 16, 1869, held by the
Supreme Court of the State to be unconstitutional and void,
since when the defendants have disclaimed all right to collect
said j per cent of said State tax, and have made no effort to
collect the same; and in cases where said j,. of said tax had
been collected, the same has been refunded in pursuance of an
act of the general assembly in force March 26, 1875. A
replication was filed, and the case was heard on bill, answers, replication, an agreed state of facts, and exhibits therein
referred to, and the report of the examiner, and a decree entered
perpetually enjoining the collection of the taxes, or any of them
in the bill mentioned. The defendants, who are the collectors
in the various counties through which the road runs, bring the
case to this court.
It is not deemed necessary to make any special statement in
regard to the two other cases, as the facts in them are substantially the same as those above given.
Mr. Lyman Trumbull and Mr. James -. BEdsall, AttorneyGeneral of Illinois, for the appellants in the first case.
Mr. Trumbull submitted, 1. The objection that the local assessors assessed part of
"the railroad track" as real estate, other than railroad track,
is not sustained by the evidence.
2. The great point in the case is the alleged unconstitutionality of the act creating the State board of equalization, as it
is not pretended that the action of the board was not according
to the statute.
It is said that the constitution requires the property of every
person and corporation, for the purpose of taxation, to be valued
separately, and that the act requires the board of equalization
to consider all property listed and assessed in different counties, by a classification of the same into the classes of personal
property, railroad property, lands, &c.; and, upon such consid

Oct. 1875.]

STATE RAILROAD TAx OASES.

eration, to determine what addition to or deduction from the
aggregate assessed value of each of said classes should be made
in any county, or throughout the State; and requires the said
board to make such addition or deduction by a rate per cent on
the assessed value of each class. The answer to this objection
is, that the property of every person and corporation is by the
law valued separately in the first instance; and the only effect
of the action of the State board of equalization is to so adjust
the assessment that each person or corporation shall pay a tax
in proportion to the value of his or its property.
Adsit v. Lieb, 76 Ill. 198, disposes of the question thus raised.
In that case, it was decided that "the legislature is not prohibited by the constitution from creating a State board of equalization, and investing it with power to equalize the assessments
of the different counties for the purpose of producing uniformity
in the valuation."
It is next objected to the constitutionality of the act, that
it provides that the railroad track, rolling-stock, capital stock,
and franchise, shall be taxed in the several counties, cities,
towns, &c., in proportion that the length of the main track in
such county, city, town, &c., bears to the whole length of the
road in the State, except the value of the side track, and all
turnouts, and all station-houses, d6pots, machine-shops, or other
buildings belonging to the road, shall be taxed in the county,
city, town, &c., in which the same are located; that the county,
city, town, &c., special taxes are different; and that such taxes,
levied on an assessment so made and distributed, are not uni4
form within the jurisdiction imposing the same, and are therefore illegal.
This precise question has been decided in Missouri, under a
similar constitutional provision, and the constitutionality of
such legislation sustained. State v. Severance, 55 Mo. 388.
The case of Hissouri River, ico., B._. Co. v. Jorris,1 Amer.
Ry. R. 365, 7 Kan. 210, is to the same effect.
So, also, it was decided by this court that the provision of
the Constitution of Illinois, requiring taxes to be uniform in'
respect to persons and property within the jurisdiction of the
body imposing the same, did not prevent the taxation of the
owners of the stock of a national bank in that State at the place
VOL. IT.

38

STATE RAILROAD TAX OASES.

[Sup. Ct.

where the bank was located, without regard to their places of
residence. Tappan v. Merchants' National Bank, 19 Wall. 501.
The ninth section of the ninth article of the constitution introduces no new rule as to the assessment of property; that
was provided for by sect. 1 in the same article; and the general assembly, in strict obedience thereto, has provided for the
election of persons to make the assessment of the railroad track,
rolling-stock, and capital stock. All the ninth section does, is
to provide that the tax shall be uniform in respect to persons
and property. The bill fails to show wherein the tax in each
county, city, &c., is not uniform within the jurisdiction of the
body imposing the same. The fact that special taxes are different in different localities, and that the same species of property, and of the same value, is taxed more in one county, city,
&c., than another, furnishes no constitutional objection to the
tax in any of the localities. If it was unequal within the jurisdiction of the municipality imposing the tax, it would be objectionable; but this is not pretended. Missouri River, &c., R.B.
Co. v. Morris, 7 Kan. 210; Hines v. Leavenworth, 3 id. 201.
The objection that the railroad track, rolling-stock, and capital-stock tax is apportioned to the several counties, cities, &c.,
according to the mileage principle, amounts to nothing more
than a complaint that the railroad track, &c., has been assessed
too much in some localities, and not enough in others. The
right to assess in each county is not denied. When property is
subject to taxation, and has been assessed for that purpose by
the proper officers, as in this case, the fact that it is assessed
too much or too little in any particular locality affords no
ground for a court of equity to enjoin the collection of the tax.
Albany, &'c., R.R. v. Town of Canaan, 16"Barb. 244; Clinton
School -District'sAppeal, 56 Penn. St. 317; Stewart v. J)Iaple,
70 id. 221; Dowds v. City of Chicago, 11 Wall. 109.
All the objections stated under this head have been especially
considered and passed upon by the Supreme Court of Illinois.
C., B., & Q. R.R. Co. v. Cole, reported in pamphlet copy of
Tax-Injunction Cases, p. 43; Munson v. Wilder, 66 Ill. 383;
Daz Page Co. v. Jenks, 65 id. 275.
3. The mode provided by the act and adopted by the board
of equalization for the assessment of the capital stock of the

Out. 1875.]

STATE RAILROAD TAX CASES.

railroad company is not unconstitutional. It is authorized by
the first section of art. 9 of the constitution of the State.
This section gives authority to tax corporations, &c., owning or
using franchises, in such manner as the legislature shall from
time to time. direct. There is nothing in the constitution
which prohibits the legislature from appointing different persuns to ascertain the value of the property of different classes
I persons.
The objections which are being considered under this head
have been overruled by the Supreme Court of the State. TaxInjunction Cases, 23.
4. The objection that the board of equalization acted with
out notice has also been overruled by the Supreme Court.
Tax-Injunction Cases, 34; Adsit v. Leib, 76 II. 201. See also
Missouri River, tc., B.RR. Co. v. Morris, 7 Kan. 210.
5. The objection to the assessment of the capital stock and
franchise of the company by the State board of equalization,
and to the manner in which it was done, is also overruled by
the decisions of the Supreme Court of the State. Porter v.
T.fan7cfort, s-c., 1.B. Co., 76 Ill. 561; .Republic Life Insurance
Co. v. Pollocc, Tax-Injunction Cases, 35; C., B.,
Q. R.B. Co.
v. Cole, id. 43.
These are questions peculiarly within the province of the
State tribunals, and their decisions are binding on this court.
I esmilth v. Sheldon, 7 How. 818; Carpenter v. Page, 17 id.
462; W'etherspoon v. -Duncan,4 Wall. 217; -DelawareB.B.
Tax Cases, 18 id. 231; HYamilton Co. v. Massachusetts, 6 id.
633; Lane Co. v. Oregon, 7 id. 71; Bailey v. B.]?. Co., 22 id.
604.
.JAr. 1. G. Ingersoll, for the appellees, submitted the following points: First, The revenue law of 1872 provides only for taxation
by valuation, and has nothing to do with an excise or license
tax.
&econd, The taxing power can only be exercised upon property within the jurisdiction of the body imposing the same.
Third, Real estate can only be taxed at its actual situs.
FourtA, The situs of the rolling-stock of a railway corporation is where the general office of such corporation is.

STATE RAIU0AD TAX CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Fifth, Personal property cannot be changed into real estate,

and real estate into personal property; for the purposes of taxation.
Sixth, Indebtedness cannot be taxed as against the debtors.
Seventh, The rules laid down by the board of equalization for
the ascertainment of value cannot produce a correct valuation.
Eigqhth, The principle of uniformity has been violated.
Ninth, The Constitution of Illinois places the property of
corporations and individuals upon an equality.
Tenth, By the law of 1872, corporations are denied privileges
and rights accorded to individuals.
-Eleventh, The board of equalization cannot disregard the
sworn returns of the railway company, and cannot raise the
valuation without evidence justifying it, nor then without notice to the company.
Twelfth, It is unlawful to classify property according to
owners.
Thirteenth, The assessment by the board was fraudulent, and
made not only without evidence, but contrary to evidence.
Fourteenth, The Supreme Cour of the United States is not
bound by the decision of the State court in this case, even if
such decision stood unquestioned by the State court.
Fifteenth, In any event, where there are conflicting decisions
by the State court, this court has the power to follow those decisions which are in accordance with the constitution of the
State.
In the second case, Hr. James K. -dsall, 'Attorney-General of
Illinois, appeared for appellants. See abstract of his brief,
infra.
111r. C. Beckwith and Mr. Obadiah Jackson for appellees,
submitted, 1. The decisions of the Supreme Court of Illinois are not
conclusive.
The complainants insist that the assessments set forth in
their bill are prohibited by that clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Federal Constitution which provides that
"no State shall deprive any person of life, liberty, or property,
without due process of law."

Qct. 1875.]

STATE RAILROAD TAX CASES.

State laws and constitutions are construed by the Federal
courts according to their own judgment in all cases where it is
necessary to determine whether a right secured by the Federal
Constitution has been violibted. Jefferson Bank v. Skelly, 1
Black, 436; The Hoboken Bridge, 1 Wall. 116; Vard v. 1'faryland, 12 id. 418; -Delmasv. Ins. Co., 14 id. 661.
2. The mode of assessment adopted in this case is not warranted by the constitution and laws of the State.
3 Ehe constitution of the State does not authorize an assessment of the fr'anchise of a corporation by valuation.
An excise tax may be imposed under art. 9 of the State
constitution upon a franchise, in the same manner as such a tax
may be imposed upon jugglers, showmen, &c., having special
privileges. The constitution did not intend to permit double
taxation; that is, on a valuation and by an excise tax.
The rule of assessment adopted by the State board is unjust,
as it compels the payment of taxes upon debts.
Mr. P. Pidillipsalso for appellees.
The Federal courts have jurisdiction of the case, both on the
ground of citizenship and to prevent a multiplicity of suits.
The restriction in the thirty-fourth section of the Judiciary
Act of 1789 applies only to trials at common law: it does not
apply to the decisions of the State courts upon questions of a
general nature. -Yives v. Scott, 13 How. 271; Bussell v. Southard, 12 id. 144; Watson v. Tarpley, 18 id. 517.
The nature of taxation, what uses are public and what private,
and the extent of unrestricted legislative power, are matters
which no State court can conclusively determine for us. Olcott
v. Supervisors,16 Wall. 678; Township v. Pine Grove, 19 id. 671.
The question, then, for the determination of this court is,
whether the "rules and principles" adopted by the board are
"just and equitable."
The lebt of the corporation is not part of the possessions of
the corporation, but is property belonging to the creditor who
holds it. State v. 2homas, 2 Dutch. 184; State Tax, 15 Wall.
820; Bradley v. People, 4 id. 459.
The rule, therefore, adopted by the board is based upon valuations, not of the property of the corporations,but of property
belonging to others.

STATE RAILROAD TAX CASES.

[Sup. Ot.

This is a departure from the authority conferred. A discre.
tion so exercised cannot be substituted for legal requisition.
Bank of C7iemung v. City of Elmira,53 N. Y. 52.
The rule adopted does not secure the uniformity demanded
alike by just principles of taxation and constitutional guaranties.
The mode of distributing the assessed value of the property
of the company, so as to subject it to taxation in the several
counties and towns without regard to the real location of the
property, is also illegal.
The State cannot transferpropertyfrom a county in which it
is located into another, and thus subject it to a different rule of
taxation than that which obtains at its situs. Bank of Comnerce, 2 Black, 631; St. Louis v. Terry Co., 11 Wall. 430.
In the third case, Mr. James K. -Edsall,Attorney-General of
the State of Illinois, and Hr. Lyman Trumbull, appeared for
the appellants.
31,. ,_Edsall contended,-

I. Under the statutes of Illinois, railroad corporations may
be assessed upon their capital stock and franchises.
II. The meaning of the terms "capital stock, including the
franchise" (with all other questions involved in the present
cases), has been determined by the Supreme Court of Illinois.
These decisions, being unreported, are referred to as ,Illinois
Tax-Injunction Cases," printed in pamphlet form.
In these cases it is held, 1. That the words "capital stock" mean the property of the
corporation, and not the shares of stock owned by the shareholders.
2. That it was competent for the legislature to iequire
the "capital stock" of corporations, as thus construed, to be
assessed for the purpose of taxation against the corporation.
3. That the franchise of a corporation is property, and as
such may be taxed, in proportion to its value, the same as
other property. Illinois Tax Injunction Cases, pp. 3, 36.
III. The rule adopted by the board to ascertain the value
of the "capital stock and franchise" of a corporation is at
least theoretically correct.

Oct. 1875.]

STATE RAILROAD TAX CASES.

This rule is, in substance, as follows:" First,The market or fair cash value of the shares of capital
stovk and the market or fair cash value of the debt (excluding
from such debt the indebtedness for current expenses) shall be
combined or added together; and the aggregate amount so ascertained shall be taken and held to be the fair cash value of the
capital stock, including the franchise, respectively, of such companies and associations.
"1Second,
From the aggregate amount, ascertained as aforesaid,
there shall be deducted the aggregate amount of the equalized or
assessed valuation of all the tangible property, respectively, of such
companies and associations."
This mode of taxing corporations upon their capital stock
is upheld in other States. Commonwealth v. Mamilton. 3fanuf.
Co., 12 Allen, 298; 31unroe Co. Savings Bank v. Rochester,
37 N. Y. 366; Osborn v. N.
. & N. H. B.R. Co., 40 Conn.
491.
This mode of taxing corporations was recommended by the
commissioners appointed in 1870 by the legislature of New
York.
The board of equalization having jurisdiction, their action
is conclusive, even though they may have erred in their judgment. The People v. .alsey, 53 Barb. 548.
IV. The assessment does not appear to be excessive.
V. The decisions of the Suprdme Court of a State, as to the
proper construction of its revenue laws, are conclusive on the
Federal courts.
VI. The assessment in question being confided to the State
board of equalization, its action cannot be collaterally impeached for mere error in judgment, but only for fraud, accident, or mistake.
3ir. 0. H. Browning and i1r. Wirt Dexter for the appellees.
I. The assessment for capital stock is illegal and void under tb first clause of sect. 1, art. 9, of the Constitution of
Illinois.
First, Because the law under which the assessment was made
is unconstitutional. Solamons v. Laing, 14 Jurist, for Dec.,
1850; -Dodge v. Woolsey, 18 How. 848; Van Allen v. The Assessors, 3 Wall. 583, 584; Bradley v. The People, 4 id. 459;

STATE RAILROAD TAX

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Bank v. Mhe Commonwealth, 9 id. 359; Austin v. Board of
Aldermen of City of Boston, 14 Allen, 362; Ang. & Ames on
Corp., sect. 558, n. 1; Brightwell v. Mallory, 10 Yerg. 196;
State v. Franklin Bank, 10 Ohio, 90, 97; Redf. Am. Railw.
Cases, 500, 507, 510, 568; State v. Thomas, 2 Dutch. 184;
Const. of Ill., sect. 1, art. 9, sect. 9, art. 11; Bailroad Co. v.
Penn., 15 Wall. 300, 320; The State v. Branin, 3 Zab. 500;
Smith v. Burley, 9 N. H1. 428.
Second, Because, if the law shall be held to be constitutional,
the assessment, as made, was not authorized by the law. Porter
v. B., R. I., . St. L. Railw. Co., Chic. Leg. News, June 27,
1874; The C., B., J- Q. .B.B. Co. v. Cole et als., id. July 3, 1875;
Bank of Chemung v. City of Elmira, 53 N. Y. 52.
II. The assessment cannot be sustained as a tax upon the
franchise of the corporation under the second clause of sect. 1,
art. 9, of the Constitution of Illinois.
First, Because the general assembly has passed no law,
uniform as to the class upon which it operates, directing the
manner in which persons and corporations shall be taxed for
the ownership or use of franchises and privileges.
Second, Because the State board of equalization disregarded
and violated the rule which it had adopted, and by which it
had resolved to be governed, in making the assessment.
Third, It cannot be sustained as a franchise tax; because the
assessment was not, in fact, for or on account of franchises and
privileges. Fourth, Because, in making it, the State board totally disregarded the uniformity and equality of assessment required by
the constitution. Redf. Railw. Cases, 500; United R.R. .
Canal Co. v. Comm'r, 8 Vroom, 247, 248; Moore v. Chicago,
60 Ill. 243; The C., B., &' Q. B.B. Co. v. Cole et als., Chic.
Leg. News, July 3,1875; Knowlton v. Supervisors, 9 Wis. 414;
Weeks v. Milwaukee, 10 id. 242; ifersey v. Board of Sapervisors,
16 id.'186; Henry v. Chester, 15 Vt. 460; Brewer Brick Co. v.
Inhabitants of Brewer, 62 Me. 74, 75; Portland Bank v. Apthorp, 12 Mass..252; Commonwealth v. People's Savings Bank,
5 Alien, 431; Oliver v. TFashington Mills, 11 id. 261; Bureau
County v. C., B., J6 Q. B.R. Co., 44 Ill. 238.

Oct. 1875.]

STATE RAILROAD TAX CASES.

MR. JUSTICE MrLLER delivered the opinion of the court.

The three cases whose titles stand at the head of this opinion
are appeals from decrees of the Circuit Court for the Northern
District of Illinois, enjoining the appellants from the collection
,of taxes assessed by the proper officers of the State of Illinois
against three several railroad companies, organized under the
laws of that State, and doing business in it. The plaintiffs in
the first named of the above suits are mortgagees of the
Toledo, Peoria, and Warsaw Railroad Company. In the
other two cases the complainants are stockholders of the respective companies whosi interests they represent; namely,
the Chicago and Alton Railroad Company, and the Chicago,
Burlington, and Quincy Railroad Company.
The act of the legislature of Illinois of March 30, 1872,
under which the taxes complained of were assessed, makes
special provisions for the taxation of railroads and other corporations, the main feature of which is the purpose of leaving to
each county, city, and town the power of assessing for taxation
what is properly local in the same manner that other similar
property is taxed in that municipality, and at the same time to
subject to like taxation on some fair basis that which is not in
its nature so clearly local, but which, by reason of its being
appurtenant or incident to the railroad, should pay its share to
the State, and to all the counties, towns, and cities through
which any part of the road runs. The theory of the system is
manifestly to treat the railroad track, its rolling-stock, its
franchise, and its capital, as a unit for taxation, and to distribute the assessed value of this unit according as the length of
the road in each county, city, and town bears to the whole
length of the road.
It provides, therefore, for three separate valuations,1. Of the real estate in each county, city, and town, which
is not a part of the track and right of way, and of the personal
property, such as tools, implements, &c., which remain permanently at that locality. These are valued by the local assessor
and taxed by the local authorities in precisely the same manner that other real and personal property are assessed and
taxed.
2. The railroad track, including the right of way, the grad-

STATE RAILROAD TAX CASES.

[Suip. Ct.

ing and superstructure, and such dgp~ts, buildings, and other
improvements as are on it, and all the rolling-stock and other
personal property not local.
The entire value of this, owned by any company in the State,
is ascertained by a report made by the proper officer of the
railroad company, submitted to a State board of equalization,
which fixes this value finally; and each county, city, and town
taxes the company on so much of this assessment as the length
of the track within that locality bears to the whole length of
the track assessed by the board.
These two subjects of assessment are by the statute called
the tangible property of the company.
It is obvious, however, that while a fair assessment under
these two descriptions of property will include all the visible
or tangible property of the corporation, it may or may not
include all its wealth. There may be other property of a class
not visible or tangible which ought to respond to taxation, and
which the State has a right to subject to taxation. Thus it
may occur, as in fact is claimed by one of these companies, that,
being insolvent, and its earnings not being sufficient to pay
any thing beyond its necessary expenses for operating the road
and its repairs, this tangible property represents more than the
real wealth of the company and its property. While, on the
other hand, another one of these companies is so rich that, after
paying its expenses and interest on a large amount of debt, it
declares large dividends; and this interest and these dividends,
when looked to in reference to what is called the tangible
property, show that there is here another element of wealth
which ought to pay its share of the taxes.
8. This element the State of Illinois calls the value of the
franchise and capital stock of the corporation, - the value of the
right to use this tangible property in a special manner for purposes of gain. This constitutes the third valuation, which is
likewise to be made by the board of equalization; and, when
thus ascertained, is subjected to the taxation of the State,
counties, towns, and cities, by the same rule that the value
of the road-bed is; namely, according to the length of the
track in each taxing locality. The words "capital stock," as
here used, do not mean the shares of the stock, but the aggre-

Oct. 1875.]

STATE RAILROAD

TAx CASES.

gate capital of the company. This is obvious from the proviso
to the fourth paragraph of sect. 3 of the revenue law. As this
paragraph lies at the basis of these controversies, it is here
given verbatim:"The capital stock of all companies and associations now or hereafter created under the laws of this State shall be so valued by the
State board of equalization as to ascertain and determine, respect.
ively, the fair cash value of such capital stock, including the frau
ebise, over and above the assessed value of the tangible property
of such company or association. Said board shall adopt such rules
and principles for ascertaining the fair cash value of such capital
stock as to it may seem equitable and just; and such rules and
principles, when so adopted, if not inconsistent with this act, shall
be as binding and of the same effect as if contained in this act, subject, however, to such change, alteration, or amendment as may
be found, from time to time, to be necessary by said board: Provided, that in all cases where the tangible property or capital stock
of any company or association is assessed under this act, the shares
of capital stock of any such company or association shall not be
assessed or taxed in this State. This clause shall not apply to the
capital stock, or shares of capital stock, of banks organized under
the general banking laws of this State.'
That the franchise, capital stock, business, and profits of all
corporations are liable to taxation in the place where they do
business, and by the State which creates them, admits of no
dispute at this day. "Nothing can be more certain in legal
decisions," says this court in Society for Savings v. Coite,
6 Wall. 607, "than that the privileges and franchises of a private corporation, and all trades and avocations by which the
citizens acquire a livelihood, may be taxed by a State for the
support of a State government." State Freight Tax Case,
15 Wall. 232; State Tax on Gross feceipts, 15 Wall. 284. But
it has been a desideratum,perhaps not yet fully attained, to find
a method of taxing this species of property which will be at the
same time just to the owners of it, equal and fair in its relations to taxes on other property, and which will enforce the
just contribution that such property should pay for the benefits
which, more than property generally, it receives at the hands of
government.

STATE RAILROAD TAx CASES.

[Sup. CL

The tax on the deposits of savings-banks, in Society for
Savings v. Coite, which was held to be of this class by the
court; the tax on freight, in the Preigkt Taz Cases; and, in the
other cases, the tax on gross receipts, by the State of Pennsylvania, - are all attempts at arriving at the desired result in the
best mode.
The statute of Illinois, and the rule adopted by the board of
equalization, under the power conferred by the clause we have
just recited, may not be the wisest mode of doing complete
justice in this difficult matter; but we confess we have, on the
whole, seen no scheme which is better adapted to effect the
purpose, so far as railroad corporations are concerned, of taxing
at once all their property, and of making the tax just and
equal in its relation to other taxable property of the State.
The rule adopted by the board is as follows: ".First, The market or fair cash value of the shares of capital
stock, and the market or fair cash value of the debt (excluding
from such debt the indebtedness for current expenses), shall be
combined or added together; and the aggregate amount so ascertained shall be taken and held to be the fair cash value of the capital stock, including the franchise, respectively, of such companies
and associations.
"Second, From the aggregate amount ascertained as aforesaid,
there shall be deducted the aggregate amount of the equalized or
assessed valuation of all the tangible property, respectively, of such
companies and associations (such equalized or assessed valuation
being taken, in each case, as the same may be determined by the
equalization or assessment of property by this board); and the
amount remaining, in each case, if any, shall be taken and held to
be the amount and fair cash value of the capital stock, including
the franchise, which this board is required by law to assess, respectively, against companies and associations now or hereafter created
under the laws of this State."
It may be assumed for all practical purposes, and it is perhaps absolutely true, that every railroad company in Illinois
has a bonded indebtedness secured by one or more mortgages.
The parties who deal in such bonds are generally keen and
far-sighted men, and most careful in their investments. Hence
the value which these securities hold in market is one of the

Oct. 18Tb.J

STATE RAILROAD TAx OASES.

truest criteria,as far as it goes, of the value of the road as a
security for the payment of those bonds.
These mortgages are, however, liens on the road, and, taking
precedence of the shares of the stockholder, may or may not
extinguish the value of his shares. They must in any event
affect that value to the exact amount of the aggregate debts.
For all that goes to pay that debt and its interest diminishes
pro tanto the dividend of the shareholder and the value of his
share.
It is therefore obvious, that, when you have ascertained the
current cash value of the whole funded debt, and the current
cash value of the entire number of shares, you have, by the
action of those who above all others can best estimate it, ascertained the true value of the road, all its property, its capital
stock, and its franchises; for these are all represented by the
value of its bonded debt and of the shares of its capital stock.
This would of itself be, perhaps, the fairest basis of taxation
for the State at large, if all railroads were solvent and paid the
interest promptly on their funded debt. But this has never
been the case in Illinois; and it is doubtful if this happy state
of affairs is likely to prevail soon in that or any other State of
the Union. If taxes were assessable alone on the value of the
capital stock and franchises of the corporation, cases might be
found where these were worth nothing, and such companies
would pay no tax even for their real estate and personal property. And this is precisely the main argument of counsel for the
Toledo, Peoria, and Warsaw Railroad Company, in opposition
to the law and to the rule of the board of equalization. But
individuals do not escape taxation on their real and personal
property because they are insolvent. In several of the States
many men in effect pay tax on their lots or lands, and on the
mortgage which covers it and exceeds it in value, and on a
large amount of personal property, while the mortgage debt
exceeds in amount all that they are worth in the world. No
State has ventured to establish the principle of permitting its
visible, tangible property to escape taxation, relying solely on
a tax imposed on the individual on the basis of his estimated
wealth in excess of his debts.
The system adopted by the statute of Illinois, and the rule

606

STATE RAILROAD TAx COASES.

[Sup. C&

of the board of equalization, preserve this principle of taxing
all the tangible property at its value, and taxing the capital
stock and franchise at their value, if there be any, after deducting the value of the tangible property. The case of Toledo,
Peoria, and Warsaw Company, as we have said, is used as an

illustration of the inequality which this rule works, and which
counsel say is forbidden by the constitution of the State, thus
rendering the tax assessed against it void. That company is
insolvent, and in the hands of a receiver. It is unable to pay
any interest on its bonds. Its capital stock is of no value.
But the board of equalization assessed the capital stock and
franchise at $2,003,415, and its tangible property at $2,629,367,
thus assessing a property which pays but little, if any thing, beyond its running expenses, at the sum of $4,632,782.
This sounds plausible; but it is nothing more. Concede for
the present that the capital stock is sunk and is of no value;
concede that the funded debt of the company has at present no
market value, or is unsalable, - there remains what is valued as

worth over $2,600,000 of real and personal property, which,
like all other property of individuals or corporations, ought to
pay its proportion of the public burdens. There also remains
the value of the franchise, which is not destroyea by the circumstance that the road does not pay interest on its debt.
Does anybody believe that this debt is of no value, - that the
holders of it attach no value to this franchise? Are they willing to give up the right to operate the road, to receive freights
and fares, to endeavor to make it pay something more than the
mere value of the personal property of the track, the d6p8ts,
the grounds, the rolling-stock, and other tangible property? Is
it supposed by any one that they intend or will ever sell these
separately or apart from the right to use them as a railroad?
Why do not the bondholders sell all these things under their
mortgage at auction as a man would sell town-16ts and househo]d furniture, and horses and carriages? The reason is too
clear to escape observation. It is because in the case of the
railroad there is attached to all this property, and goes with it,
a privilege, a right to use it through the whole extent of the
richest counties of Illinois, in transporting persons and property, in a manner which adds immensely to its value when con-

Oct. 1875.]

STATE RAILROAD TAX OASES.

sidered as so much iron, so much land, and so much personal
property. By virtue of this privilege or franchise, this is all
aggregated into a unit, well adapted to make money by its use
in that way, with a chartered right to use it for that purpose.
It is thisfranclise which the legislature of Illinois intended
to tax, which it had a right to tax; and in taxing it committed
no injustice, if it was fairly assessed, though the corporation
which holds it may be so utterly bankrupt that it must necessarily pass from it into other hands. In those hands, disembarrassed of its overweight of debt, who shall say that it is not
worth 82,000,000? and who shall say that such is not the real
value now of this franchise?
We shall presently consider the extent to which a court of
justice can enter upon the consideration of this question; but
we take occasion here to say, that, in the view we have taken of
the matter, there is no sufficient evidence in these cases to
show that if the rule adopted by the board be just, that it has
been unfairly applied to any of these roads, except in the
single case of a mistake in the amount of the bonds of the
Chicago, Burlington, and Quincy Railroad Company,- a mistake induced by the report of that company's officer to the
State auditor.
Another objection to the system of taxation by the State is,
that the rolling-stock, capital stock, and franchise, are personal
property, and that this, with all other personal property, has a
local situs at the principal place of business of the corporation,
and can be taxed by no other county, city,-or town, but the one
where it is so situated.
This objection is based upon the general rule of law that
personal property, as to its situs, follows the domicile of its
owner. It may be doubted very reasonably whether such a
rule can be applied to a railroad corporation as between the
different localities embraced by its line of road. But, after all,
the rule is merely the law of the State which recognizes it; and
when it is called into operation as to property located in one
State, and owned by a resident of another, it is a rule of comity
in the former State rather than an absolute principle in all
cases. Green v. FJan Buskirk, 5 Wall. 312. Like all other
laws of a State, it is, therefore, subject to legislative repeal,

STATE RAILROAD

TAx OASES.

[Sup. Ot.

modification, or limitation; and when the legislature of Illinois
declared that it should not prevail in assessing personal property of railroad companies for taxation, it simply exercised an
ordinary function of legislation. Whether allowing the rule to
stand as to taxation of individuals, and changing it as to railroads or other corporations, it violated any rule of uniformity
prescribed by the constitution of the State, we will consider
when we come to the constitutional objections to the statute.
It is further objected that the railroad track, capital stock,
and franchise is not assessed in each county where it lies according to its value there, but according to an aggregate value
of the whole, on which each county, city, and town collects
taxes according to the length of the track within its limits.
This, it is said, works injustice both to the counties and to
the companies. To the counties and cities, by depriving them
of the benefit of this value as a basis of local taxation; to the
company, by subjecting its track and franchises, on the basis of
this general value, to the taxation of the counties and towns,
varying, as they do, in rate, without the benefit of the rule of
assessment which prevails in those counties in the valuation of
other and similar property. But, as we have already said, a
railroad must be regarded for many, indeed for most purposes,
as a unit. The track of the road is but one track from one end
of it to the other, and, except in its use as one track, is of little
value. In this track as a whole each county through which it
passes has an interest much more important than it has in the
limited part of it lying within its boundary. Destroy by any
means a few miles of this track within an interior county, so as
to cut off the connection between the two parts thus separated,
and, if it could not be repaired or replaced, its effect upon the
value of the remainder of the road is out of all proportion to
the mere local value of the part of it destroyed. A similar
effect on the value of the interior of the road would follow the
destruction of that end of the road lying in Chicago, or some
other place where its largest traffic centres. It may well be
doubted whether any better mode of determining the value of
that portion of the track within any one county has been
devised than to ascertain the value of the whole road, and
apportion the value within the county by its relative length to
the whole.

Oct. 1875.]

STATE RAILROAD TAX OASES.

There are other objections urged by counsel against the
equity and fairness of the Illinois mode of assessing and taxing
railroad companies as a system. But we cannot notice them
all. Those above commented on are the most important.
There is, however, an objection urged to the conduct of the
board of equalization, resting on the action of the board in these
particular cases, in which they are charged with a gross violalion of the law to the prejudice of the corporations, which we
will consider.
The statute requires the proper officers of the railroad companies to furnish to the State auditor a schedule of the various
elements already mentioned as necessary in applying the statutory rule of valuation. It is charged that the board of equalization increased the estimates of value so reported to the auditor,
without notice to the companies, and without sufficient evidence
that it ought to be done; and it is strenuously urged upon
us, that for want of this notice the whole assessment of the
property and levy of taxes is void.
It is hard to believe that such a proposition can be seriously
made. If the increased valuation of property by the board
without notice is void as to the railroad companies, it must be
equally void as to every other owner of property in the State,
when the value assessed upon it by the local assessor has been
increased by the board of equalization. How much tax would
thus be rendered void it is impossible to say. The main function of this board is to equalize these assessments over the
whole State. If they find that a county has had its property
assessed too high in reference to the general standard, they
may reduce its valuation; if it has been fixed too low, they
raise it to that standard. When they raise it in any county,
they necessarily raise it on the property of every individual who
owns any in that county. Must each one of these have notice
and a separate hearing? If a railroad company is by law
entitled to such notice, surely every individual is equally entitled to it. Yet if this be so, the expense of giving notice,
the delay of hearing each individual, would render the exercise
of the main function of this board impossible. The very moment you come to apply to the individual the right claimed by
the corporation in this case, its absurdity is apparent. Nor is
VOL. II.

89

STATE RA ROAD TAX CASES.

[ Su p. ()tL

there any hardship in the matter. This board has its time of
sitting fixed by law. Its sessions are not secret. No obstruction exists to the appearance of any one before it to assert a
right, or redress a wrong; and, in the business of assessing
taxes, this is all that can be reasonably asked.
As we do not know on what evidence the board acted in
regard to these railroads, or whether they did not act on knowledge which they possessed themselves, and as all valuation of
property is more or less matter of opinion, we see no reason
why the opinion of this court, or of the Circuit Court, should
be better, or should be substituted for that of the board, whose
opinion the law has declared to be the one to govern in the
matter.
It is said that the statute of Illinois is void, because it violates the principle of uniformity, and taxes corporations in
a manner different from that which governs taxation of individuals.
The sections of the constitution relied on in support of this
proposition are sects. 1 and 10 of aricle 9. which are as
follows: SECT. 1. "The general assembly shall provide such revenue
as may be needful by levying a tax by valuation, so that every
person and corporation shall pay a tax in proportion to the value of
his, her, or its property, - such value to be ascertained by some
person or persons, to be elected or appointed in such manner as the
general assembly shall direct, and not otherwise; but the general
assembly shall have power to tax pedlers, auctioneers, brokers,
hawkers, merchants, commission-merchants, showmen, jugglers,
innkeepers, grocery-keepers, liquor-dealers, toll-bridges, ferries,
insurance, telegraph, and express interests or business, venders of
patents, and persons or corporations owning or using franchises
and privileges, in such manner as it shall, from time to time, direct
by general law, uniform as to the class upon which it operates."
SECT. 10. "The general assembly shall not impose taxes upon
municipal corporations, or the inhabitants or property thereof, for
corporate purposes, but shall require that all the taxable property
within the limits of municipal corporations shall be taxed for the
payment of debts contracted under authority of law, - such taxes to
be uniform in respect to persons and property within the jurisdio.
tion of the body imposing the same."

Out. 1875.]

STATE RAILROAD TAx CASES.

As regardA this latter section, there is no claim that the ?-ate
of taxation levied by any municipal corporation, on the assessed
value of railroad property within its limits, is greater than on
other property.
Nor is it asserted that the valuation of that part of the property which the statute regards as strictly local-namely, real
estate not a part of the track, and tools and implements used
exclusively within the locality -has been assessed on any other
principle than that which is applied to the property of individuals.
But the contentioii is, that the rule of treating the road, its
rolling-stock and franchises, as a unit, and assessing it as a
whole, on which each municipality levies its taxes according to
the length of the road within its limits, violates the principles
of this section. We have already discussed this question, and
are of opinion that taxes assessed by that rule on the railroad
property by the municipality are uniform when the rate of taxation is the same on the assessment thus ascertained that it is
on other property.
This court has expressly held in two cases, where the road of
a corporation ran through different States, that a tax upon the
income or franchise of the road was properly apportioned by
taking the whole income or value of the franchise, and the
length of the road within each State, as the basis of taxation.
V~e Delaware Bailroad Taz Case, 18 Wall. 208; -Erie R.B. Co.
v. Penns~ylvania, 21 Wall. 492.
As to sect. 1, we need not inquire very closely whether
the mode adopted by the statute and the rules of the board of
equalization produces a valuation for railroad companies different from that of individuals, though, as we have already said,
it does not appear to us to produce any inequality to the prejudice of the companies. But we need not pursue that inquiry
very closely, because the latter part of the section in express
terms authorizes the legislature to "tax persons and corporations owning or using franchises in such manner as it shall
from time to time direct, by general law;" and the only restriction on the power, as applied to this class, is, that it shall be
"uniform as to the class upon which it operates."
There can be no doubt that all the classes named LA this

STATE RAILROAD TAX CASES.

[Sup. at.

clause, including pedlers, showmen, innkeepers, ferries, express,
insurance, and telegraph companies, are taken out of the general
rule of uniformity prescribed by the first clause, and the only
limitation as to them is that of uniformity as to the class upon
which the law shall operate; that is, innkeepers may be taxed
by one, ferries by another, railroads by another, provided that
the rule as to innkeepers be uniform as to all innkeepers, the
rule as to ferries uniform as to all ferries, and the rule as to
railroad companies be uniform as to all iailroad companies.
As we have seen no evidence that the rule by which railroad
property is taxed is not uniform in its action on all the railroad companies of Illinois, we can perceive no opposition to
the constitution of the State in that rule.
But suppose it were otherwise; perfect equality and perfect
uniformity of taxation as regards individuals or corporations, or
the different classes of property subject to taxation, is a dream
unrealized. It may be admitted that the system which most
nearly attains this is the best. But the most complete system
which can be devised, must, when we consider the immense
variety of subjects which it necessarily embraces, be imperfect.
And when we come to its application to the property of all the
citizens, and of those who are not citizens, in all the localities
of a large State like Illinois, the application being made by
men whose judgments and opinions must vary as they are
affected by all the circumstances brought to bear upon each
individual, the result must inevitably partake largely of the
imperfection of human nature, and of the evidence on which
human judgment is founded. Tappan v. AiNerchants' _National
Bank, 19 Wall. 504; Weber v. Benhard, 78 Penn. St. 873;
Commonwealth v. Savings Bank, 5 Allen, 247; Allen v. -Drew,
44 Vt. 174.
Let us suppose that the complaints made in these cases
against the taxes were well founded; that the mode adopted by
the board of equalization to ascertain the value of the franchise
and capital stock is not the best mode; that it produces unequal
and unjust results in some cases; that the same is true of the
mode of ascertaining the basis of asgessment for the taxation
by municipalities; that the board of equalization increased
the entire assessment on each company without sufficient evi.

Oct. 1875.]

STATE RAILROAD TAX CASES.

dence; in short, let us suppose that in these and many other
respects the proceedings were faulty and illegal,- does it follow
that in every such case a court of equity will restrain the collection of the tax by injunction, or will enjoin the collection of
the whole tax when it is obvious that in justice a large part of
it should be paid, and if not paid, that the complainant escapes
taxation altogether?
We propose to consider these questions for a moment, because the immense weight of taxation rendered necessary by
the debts of the United States, of the several States, and of
the counties, cities, and towns, has resulted very naturally in a
resort to every possible expedient to evade its force.
It has been repeatedly decided that neither the mere illegality of the tax complained of, nor its injustice nor irregularity,
of themselves, give the right to an injunction in a court of
equity. .Afooers v. Smedley', 6 Johns. Ch. 27; Dodd v. Hartford,
26 Conn. 239; Green v. ilfunford, 5 R. I. 478; Miessert v.
Supervisors of Columbia, 50 Barb. 190; Dow v. Chicago, 11 Wall.
108; Hannewinkle v. Georgetown, 15 Wall. 548.
The government of the United States has provided, both in
the customs and in the internal revenue, a complete system of
corrective justice in regard to all taxes imposed by the general
government, which in both branches is founded upon the idea
of appeals within the executive departments. If the party
aggrieved does not obtain satisfaction in this mode, there are
provisions for recovering the tax after it has been paid, by suit
against the collecting officer. But there is no place in this
system for an application to a court of justice until after the
money is paid.
That there might be no misunderstanding of the universality
of this principle, it was expressly enacted, in 1867, that "no
suit for the purpose of restraining the assessment or collection
of any tax shall be maintained in any court." Rev. Stat.
sect. 3224. And though this was intended to apply alone
to taxes levied by the United States, it shows the sense of
Congress of the evils to be feared if courts of justice could, in
any case, interfere with the process of collecting the taxes on
which the government depends for its continued existence. It
is a wise policy. It is founded in the simple philosophy derived

STATE RAROAD TAX CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

from the experience of ages, that the payment of taxes has to
be enforced by summary and stringent means against a reluctant and often adverse sentiment; and to do this successfully,
other instrumentalities and other modes of procedure are necessary, than those which belong to courts of justice. See Cheatham v. Norvell, decided at this term; Nickoll v. Urnited Statcs,
7 Wall. 122; Dow v. Chicago, 11 Wall. 108.
In this latter case, this court, after commenting upon the
necessary reliance of the State governments upon the prompt
collection of the taxes for their support and maintenance, and
the ill consequences of interference -with their proceedings in
that matter, says, "No court of equity will, therefore, allow
its injunction to issue to restrain their action, except where it
may be necessary to protect the citizen whose property is taxed,
and he has no adequate remedy by the ordinary processes of
the law. It must appear that the enforcement of the tax
would lead to a multiplicity of suits, or produce irreparable
injury, or, when the property is real estate, throw a cloud upon
the title of complainant before the aid of a court of equity can
be invoked." So, in the case of Hannewincle v. Georgetown,
the court says, "It has been the settled law of this country
for a great many years, that an injunction bill to restrain the
collection of a tax on the sole ground of the illegality of the
tax cannot be maintained. There must be an allegation of
fraud, that it creates a cloud upon the title, that there is apprehension of a multiplicity of suits, or some cause presenting a
case of equity jurisdiction." 15 Wall. 548. We do not propose to lay down in these cases any absolute limitation of
the powers of a court of equity in restraining the collection of
illegal taxes; but we may say, that, in addition to illegality,
hardship, or irregularity, the case must be brought within some
of the recognized foundations of equitable jurisdiction, and that
mere errors or excess in valuation, or hardship or injustice of
the law, or any grievance which can be remedied by a suit at
law, either before or after payment of taxes, will not justify a
court of equity to interpose by injunction to stay collection of
a tax. One of the reasons why a court should not thus interfere, as it would in any transaction between individuals, is, that
it has no power to apportion the tax or to make a new assess.

Oct. 1875.]

STATE RALROAD TAX OASES.

ment, or to direct another to be made by the proper officers of
the State. These offi( ers, and the manner in which they shall
exercise their functions, are wholly beyond the power of the
court when so acting. The levy of taxes is not a judicial
fuuction. Its exercise, by the constitutions of all the States,
and by the theory of our English origin, is exclusively legislative. .feine v. The Levee Comnmissioners, 19 Wall. 660.
A court of equity is, therefore, hampered in the exercise of
its jurisdiction by the necessity of enjoining the tax complained
of, in whole or in part, without any power of doing complete
justice by making, or causing to be made, a new assessment
on any principle it may decide to be the right one. In this
manner it may, by enjoining the levy, enable the complainant
to escape wholly the tax for the period of time complained of,
though it be obvious that he ought to pay a tax if imposed in
the proper manner.
These reasons, and the weight of authority by which they are
supported, must always incline the court to require a clear case
for equitable relief before it will sustain an injunction against
the collection of a tax, which is part of the revenue of a State.
Whether the same rigid rule should be applied to taxes levied
by counties, towns, and cities, we need not here inquire; but
there is both reason and authority for holding that the control
of the courts, in the exercise of power over private property by
these corporations, is more necessary, and is unaccompanied by
many of the evils that belong to it when affecting the revenue
of the State. High on Injunc., sect. 869, and cases there cited.
The assessments in the cases before us, of which complaint is
made, are all made by the State board of equalization; and
though the taxes are collected by the county authorities, a large
part of them go to make up the revenue of the State.
In tho examination which we have made of these cases, we
do not find any of the matters complained of to come within
the rule which we have laid down as justifying the interposition of a court of equity. There is no fraud proved, if alleged.
There is no violation of the constitution, either in the statute
or in its administration, by the board of equalization. No
property is taxed that is not legally liable to taxation, nor is
the rule of uniformity prescribed by the constitution violated.

STATE RAILROAD TAX OASES.

[Sup. Ot.

If there is an excessive estimate of the value of the franchise or
capital stock, or both, it is by an error of judgment in the officers to whose judgment the law confided that matter; and it
does not lie with the court to substitute its own judgment for
that of the tribunal expressly created for that purpose.
But there is another principle of equitable jurisprudence
which forbids in these cases the interference of a court of
chancery in favor of complainants. It is that universal rule
which requires that he who seeks equity at the hands of the
court must first do equity.
The defendants in all these cases are the clerks and treasurers of the counties, -the clerk who makes out the tax-list,
and the treasurer who collects the taxes. These taxes are both
the State and county taxes. It is clear, from the statements of
the bills and from what we have already said, that there must
be in every county mentioned a considerable amount of real
estate and personal property coming within the character of
local tangible property, and subjected to taxation on precisely
the same principles, and no other, that all other personal and
real estate within the county is taxed. It is equally clear that
the road-bed within each county is liable to be taxed at the
same rate that other property is taxed. Why have not complainants paid this tax? In reference to the latter, it is said, that
they resist the rule by which the value of their road-bed in each
county is ascertained, and therefore resist the tax. But surely
it should pay tax by some rule. If the rule adopted gives too
large a valuation in some counties, it must be too small in others.
What right have they to resist the tax in the latter case? And
in the former, is the whole tax void because the assessment is
too large? Should they pay nothing, and escape wholly because
they have been assessed too high ? These questions answer
themselves. Before complainants seek the aid of the court to
be relieved of the excessive tax, they should pay what is due.
Before they ask equitable relief, they should do that justice
which is necessary to enable the court to hear them.
It is a profitable thing for corporations or individuals whose
taxes are very large to obtain a preliminary injunction as to all
their taxes, contest the case through several years' litigation,
and when in the end it is found that but a small part of, the

Out. 1875.]

STATE

RAILROAD TAX OASES.

twx should be permanently enjoined, submit to pay the balance. This is not equity. It is in direct violation of the first
principles of equity jurisdiction. It is not sufficient to say in
the bill, that they are ready and willing to pay whatever may
be found due. They must first pay what is conceded to be due,
or what can be seen to be due on the face of the bill, or be
shown by affidavits, whether conceded or not, before the preliminary injunction should be granted. The State is not to be
thus tied up as to that of which there is no contest, by lumping
it with that which is really contested. If the proper officer
refuses to receive a part of the tax, it must be tendered, and
tendered without the condition annexed of a receipt in full for
all the taxes assessed.
We are satisfied that an observance of this principle would
prevent the larger part of the suits for restraining collection
of taxes which now come into the courts. We lay it down
with unanimity, as a rule to govern the courts of the United
States .in their action in such cases. Cooley on Tax. 587;
Paber v. Napoleon, 16 ilich. 176; Hersey v. Supervisors,
16 Wis. 185; Boseberry v. Huff, 27 Ind. 12; Frazer v. Liebon,
16 Ohio St. 614; Parm'ely and Others v. The Railroad Complanies, 3 Dill. 19.
But, if for no other reason, we should reverse the decrees of
the Circuit Court in these cases, because the same questions,
involving the same considerations urged upon us here, have
been decided by the Supreme Court of the State of Illinois in
a manner which leads to the reversal of these. The cases referred to are Samuel R. Porter,County 1reasurer,and John W.
Cook, County Clerk, v. Rockford, Rock Island, &. St. Louis Railroad Co., decided at the January Term, 1874, and The Chicago,
Burlington, & Quincy R.R. Co. v. J. J. Cole and Another, decided in June, 1875. In these two cases, all the points axising
in the present cases were presented to the court, and decided
adversely to the railroad companies. These questions all grew
out of the validity and the construction of the tax-law involved
in the present cases, and out of the same action of the board
of equalization. The validity of the statute is not seriously
questioned here on the ground of any conflict with the Constitution of the United States. If any such claim be set up, it is

LEWIS, TRUSTEE,

V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

sufficiept to say it is without foundation. As the whole matter, then, -oncerns the validity of a State law as affected by
the constitution of the State, that question, and the other one
of the true construction of that statute, belong to the class of
questions in regard to which this court still holds, with some
few exceptions, that the decisions of the State courts are to be
accepted as the rule of decision for the Federal courts.
It is, nevertheless, a satisfaction that our judgment concurs
with that of the State court, and leads us to the same conclusions.
The decrees in all these cases are reversed. The cases are
remanded to the Circuit Court, with directions to dissolve the
injunction granted in each case, and to dismiss the bills.
It was said on the argument, and seems to be conceded, that,
in the case of The Chicago, Burlington, & Quincy 1.]. Co., an
agreement existed that the mistake of the board of equalization
in assessing the company on bonds of its leased roads might be
corrected in this suit. No such agreement is on file here, and
we cannot act on it. But when the case is returned to the Circuit Court, of course such decree can be rendered in that regard
as counsel may agree on. A similar remark applies to what
the brief of the attorney-general of the State admits to be an
error to the prejudice of the Chicago and Alton Company.

LEwis, TRuSTE,

v. UNITD STATES.

1. The United States is entitled to priority of payment out of the effects of its
bankrupt or insolvent debtor, whether he be principal or surety, or be
solely, or only jointly with others, liable, and it is immaterial where the
debt was contracted.
2 The United States was the creditor of a firm, A., B., & Co., doing business
in London, and consisting of several persons, some of whom resided there.
The others resided in this country, and, with another partner, constituted
the firm of A. & Co. The members of the latter firm were duly declared
bankrupt, and a trustee was appointed under the forty-third section of the
Bankrupt Act of March 2, 1867. Held, that the relations of the bankrupt
members of the firm of A., B., & Co. to the United States are the same as if
they were severally liable to the United States; and that the United States

