SCAMMION V. ]KIMBALL,

SOA_

ASSIGNEE.

[Sup. ot.

ON v. KIm:BALL, ASSIGN-EE.

1. A banker, who was a director of an insurance company, can set off against
its demand for money it deposited with him, bearing interest and payable
on call, the amount due on its policies issued to and held by him.
2 1lhe company having been adjudicated a bankrupt, his right to such a set-off
is equally available against its assignee.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The complainant, a private banker in Chicago, held several
policies of insurance issued to him by the Mutual Security
Insurance Company, of which he was a director.
The company was duly adjudicated a bankrupt. At the
time of such adjudication, it had money deposited with him on
call, drawing interest, and held his notes for unpaid subscriptions to its capital stock.
The question arising in the case and determined by the
court below was, whether the amount due from the company
on said policies of insurance on account of losses he had sustained by fire could be set off against said notes, and the
money deposited.
In view of the decision in Sawyer v. Hoag, Assignee, 17 Wall.
610, by this court, the complainant's right to set off his claim
against the company, so far as the notes in question are concerned, was abandoned in the argument.
Mr. J~att. H. Carpenterfor the appellant.
1. The complainant is clearly entitled to the set-off. The
Bankrupt Act, sect. 20 ; Tucker v. Oxley, 5 Cranch, 34; Holbrook
v. -Receivers of the American Fire Ins. Co., 6 Paige, 220; -Ex
parte Globe Fire Ins. Co., 2 Edw. Ch. 625; Cray v. Bollo, 18
Wall. 629; -Drakev. Bollo, 3 Biss. 274; Olive v. Smith, 5 Taunt.
56; Young v. Bank of Bengal, 1 Deac. 622; Jones v. Bobinson,
26 Barb. 310; Berry v. Brett, 6 Bosw. 627; Bize v. Dikason,
1 T. R. 285; Ginn v. -Dubois,id. 112; Osgood v. De Groot, 36
N. Y. 348.
2. The deposit of the money with him as banker constituted
a loan, and no trust attached to it in his hands. Hill on Trustees, 173; Patt v. Clegg, 16 M. & W. 321; Sims v. Bond, 5 B.

(jet. 1875.]

SCAMMON V. W&IMBALL, ASSIGNEE.

& Ad. 889; Carr v. Carr, 1 Meriv. 541; Devoyneo v. Noble,
id. 568.
31r. John L. Thomp8on, contra.

The debts are not of the same character, and camot be set
off. Lawrence v. Nel8on, 21 N. Y. 158; Dauncan v. LIjon, 3
Johns. Ch.358; Waterman on Set-off, 209.
the opinion of the court.
Jurisdiction is vested in the circuit courts, under the Bankrapt Act, concurrent with the District Court for the same district, of all suits, at law or in equity, which may or shall be
brought by any person against the assignee of the bankrupt's
estate, touching any property, or rights of property, of the bankrupt transferable to, or vested in, such assignee.
Pursuant to that authority, the appellant, on the 3d of May,
1872, filed the present bill of complaint in the Circuit Court
against the appellee as asgignee of the bankrupt company
described in the title of the case. Prior to that, -to wit, on
the 27th of January in the same year, -the insurance company
was duly adjudged bankrupt; and the record shows that the
present appellee was appointed the assignee of the estate of tho
bankrupt company.
Satisfactory evidence is exhibited in the record to show that
the company was duly organized with a nominal capital of
$300,000, of which ten per cent had been paid, and that the resi
due was secured by the notes of the subscribers. Provision is
made by the charter that the stock and affairs of the corporation shall be managed and conducted by any number of directors, not more than twenty-five nor less than nine, to be chosen
by ballot from among and by the stockholders. Directors, it
is also provided, shall choose out of their number a president
and vice-president; and the directors have the power to appoint;
for the time being, "such officers, secretaries, agents, and servants as they shall judge necessary."
Shares in the stock of the company, to a large amount, were
owned by the complainant; and he admits that the company
held notes against him to the amount of $10,147.50, given
to secure unpaid balances of subscriptions, for which he was
liable either as principal guarantor or surety. Throughout
M.R. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered

SCAMMON

V. KIMBALL, ASSIGNEE.

[Sup. 0t.

the lifetime of the company, the complainant insured many
and valuable properties in the company, and paid to the proper
officers of the same large sums of money as premiums for such
policies of insurance. Antecedent to the event which caused
the failure of the company, the proper officers of the same
transacted a large, and, for the greater portion of the time, a
prosperous insurance business.
Much reference to those details will not be made, as they are
no longer material in this investigation. Suffice it to say, in
that connection, that the complainant was, as he alleges, during
the whole of that period, a large owner of real and other property, and was possessed of sufficient means to render secure any
moneyed obligation into which he might enter, and to enable
him to perform any promise or contract for the payment of
money he might make; and he also alleges that it was necessary
that the means of the company should be kept where the same
could be promptly commanded, if required to pay losses; and
in order that the company might accomplish that object, and
still realize interest on the same, he came to an agreement with
the proper authorities of the company that the funds thereof,
or such portion of the same as they might choose, should thereafter, from time to time, be deposited with him, he being then
a private banker, and that the moneys so deposited should be
paid out or drawn at the pleasure of the company, without
notice or limitation; and he avers that he agreed with the
company to account with the proper officers for such moneys
when and as often as thereto required, and to pay to the company interest thereon, at the rate of ten per centum annually
during the continuance of such deposit, until a further or other
agreement should be made.
Funds of the kind contemplated were, in accordance with the
agreement, deposited with the complainant at the pleasure of
the company; and the complainant avers that he paid interest
on the average amount of the same, at the agreed rate, for the
period and to the amount specified in the exhibit annexed to
the bill of complaint.
Ten per centum per annum was paid during the period specified in the annexed exhibit; but it appears that the rate at the
close of that period was reduced to eight per cent per annum,

Oct. 1875.]

SCAMMON V. KIMBALL, ASSIGNEE.

and the complainant admits that no part of the interest since
the rate was reduced has been paid.
Both parties, it seems, were solvent until the 9th of October,
1871, when a large part of the property of the complainant
and others, which was insured by the company, was destroyed
by fire, the immediate effect of which was to cause the failure
of the insurance company. Losses of the complainait by the
fire, for which the company is responsible, as claimed by the
complainant, amount to the sum of $55,800, as appears by
the second exhibit annexed to the bill of complaint; and he
admits that he held on deposit at the time the company failed
the sum of $39,188.03, received under the agreement already
fully described, which is due to the company, with eight per
cent interest from July 1, 1871, to the 18th of December in the
same year.
Process was accordingly issued. The complainant prays
that the respondent may be decreed to deliver to him the
notes referred to; that he, the respondent, shall acquit and discharge the complainant from the admitted indebtedness to the
company; that he, the complainant, be allowed to prove the
balance of his demand against the estate of the bankrupt company; and that the respondent be enjoined and restrained from
selling or assigning the said notes, and from instituting any
suit against the complainant to recover the notes or his indebtedness to the company.
Service was made, and the respondent appeared and filed an
answer. He admits that the complainant was one of the original corporators of the company, and subscribers to its capital
stock; that only ten per cent of the subscriptions for the
capital stock was paid in cash, and that ninety per cent of the
same was secured in the promissory notes of the subscribers;
that the company at the time of the great fire became insolvent, and that the company on the day named in the bill was
adjudged bankrupt; that the company, as alleged, issued several policies of insurance to the complainant, and that he sustained large losses by the great fire ; that he is indebted to the
company as set forth in the third schedule exhibited in the
record, and that he was and is the holder of the funds of
the company to the amount specified in the bill of complaint:

SOAMOION V. ]KIMLBALL, ASSIGNEE.

[Sup. Ct.

but the respondent avers that the company never came to any
such agreement, in respect to such funds, as that alleged, and
that the complainant held the same solely in his official character as treasurer of the company.
Most of the allegations of the answer were also embodied in
a cross-bill filed by the respondent at the same time, in which
be denied all the equity of the original bill, and prayed for a
decree in his own favor, and that the complainant in the
original bill be decreed to pay over to him as assignee the
whole amount he owed to the company, including the notes
given for subscriptions for stock and the amount he held on
deposit.
Proofs were taken; and, the parties having been fully heard,
the court dismissed the original bill of complaint, and entered
a decree for the respondent in the sum of $9,532, being the
amount of the promissory notes given for capital stock, and
$39,188.03, being the amount of the funds of the company held
by the respondent in the cross-bill, with ten per cent interest
on both amounts. Immediate appeal was taken by the complainant in the original bill and respondent in the cross-bill,
and he now seeks to reverse that decree.
. Complainant's losses by the great fire, it is admitted, amount
to $45,015.33, and that the company is liable to him in that
amount for such losses under the policies of insurance issued to
the complainant prior to the fire.
Since the bill of complaint was filed in this case, this court
has decided that the debt due to a stockholder in such a case, for
losses sustained by the stockholder, of properties insured by the
company, cannot be set off against his indebtedness to the
company for unpaid shares in the capital stock of the company,
for the reason that moneys arising from that source constitute
a trust-fund for the payment of the debts of the company,
which, in the due administration of the Bankrupt Law, must be
equally divided among all the creditors of the bankrupt. Sawyer v. Hoag, 17 Wall. 610.
Such an indebtedness constitutes an exception to the rule,
that, where there are mutual debts, "one debt may be set against
the other," as originally provided by act of Parliament; or
perhaps it would be more accurate to say that the rule does not

Oct. 1875.]

SCAMMON V. KIMBALL, ASSIGNEE.

apply where it appears that the debts are not in the same
right as well as mutual. United States v. Eckford, 6 Wall.
488.
Whether the suit be one at law or in equity, set-off must be
understood as that right which exists between two parties, each
of whom, under an independent contract, owes an ascertained
amount to the other to set off their respective debts by way of
mutual deduction, so that, in any action brought for the larger
debt, the residue only, after such deduction, shall be recovered.
Adams's Eq., 6th Am. ed., 447.
Courts of equity, following the law, will not allow a set-off of
a joint debt against a separate debt, or of a separate debt against
a joint debt; nor will such courts allow a set-off of debts accruing in different rights, except under very special circumstances,
and where the proofs are clear and the equity is very strong.
2 Story's Eq., 6th ed., sect. 1437.
Equity regards the capital stock and property of a corporation as held in trust for the payment of the debts of the
corporation, and recognizes the right of creditors to pursue
such properties into whosesoever possession the same may be
transferred, unless the stock or property has passed into the
hands of a bona fide purchaser; and the rule is well settled,
that stockholders are not entitled to any share of the capital
stock nor to any dividend of the profits until all the debts
of the corporation are paid. Railroad Go v. tHoward, 7 Wall.
416.
Moneys derived from the sale and transfer of the franchises
and capital stock of an incorporated company are the assets of
the corporation, and, as such, constitute a fund for the payment
of its debts; and if held by the corporation itself, and so invested as to be subject to legal process, the fund may be seized
by a creditor on such process, and subjected to the payment
of the indebtedness of the company. Where the fund has been
improperly distributed among the stockholders, or passed into
the hands of third persons not bona fide creditors or purchasers,
the established rule in equity is, if the debts of the company
remain unpaid, that such holders take the fund charged with
the trust in favor of the creditors, which a court of equity will
enforce, and compel the application of the same to the satis-

SCAMMON V. KnIMALL, ASSIGNEE.

faction of the debts of the corporation.

[Slip. Ct.

2 Story's Eq., 9th ed.,

sect. 1252; Mumma v. Potomac, 8 Pet. 286; Wood v. Dummer,
3 Mas. 308; Pose v. Grant, 15 Mass. 522; Spear v. Grant, 16
id. 14; Curranv. Arkansas, 15 How. 807.

Tested by these considerations, it is clear that the prayer of
the bill of complaint, that the respondent may be directed
to deliver to the complainant the notes referred to, must be
denied.
Claim for losses due from the company cannot be set off
against the notes given for capital stock. Suppose that is so:
still the complainant insists that such claims for losses may be
set off against the amount due from him to the company for the
moneys of the company deposited with him under the agreement set forth in the bill of complaint.
Matters alleged in the bill of complaint, and denied in the
answer, must be proved before such matters can be assumed as
true by the court. Concede that, and it follows that the important question remains to be considered, whether there was
such an agreement between the complainant and the company,
in respect to the moneys deposited with the complainant, as
that set forth in the bill of complaint.
Moneys to a large amount were deposited with the complainant; and it is not denied that he paid interest on the same to
the amount of $11,799.96, as shown by the first schedule annexed to the original bill: but the respondent in the original
bill, and complainant in the cross-bill, alleges that the complainant in the original bill received and held all such sums as
treasurer of the company, and that the balance in his hands is
a trust-fund belonging to all creditors, and consequently that
his claim for losses under the policies issued to him by the
company cannot be set off against his indebtedness to the company for the balance of that fund in his hands. He admits
that he was elected to the office of treasurer by the directors in
the month of July, 1870, and that he was reappointed thereto
during the following year; but he denies that he ever accepted
the office, or that he ever qualified as such, or that he held in
his custody any money whatever as treasurer of the company.
Subsequently he was examined as a witness in the case, and
testified that he never qualified as treasurer or gave bond, and

Oct. 1875.]

SCADMON V. KIMBALL, ASSIGNEE.

never had any other or different relations with the company
in respect to its funds than such as existed before he was
elected.
What he states in respect to the alleged agreement is substantially as follows: That he agreed, at the first meeting of
the directors, to receive all moneys paid to the company, and
to allow the company ten per cent interest upon it, payable
annually, until he should notify the company to the contrary,
or a different arrangement should be made between the parties; the purpose of the directors being to have the money at all
times available, as far as possible, and at the same time to get interest on it; and he says that he made the offer, not because it
was of advantage to him, but to encourage the company.
Sufficient appears to show that the complainant was at that
time a private banker in good standing, and of great reputed
wealth; and he testifies that the arrangement was continued as
long as the company transacted business, except that the rate
of interest which he was to allow was reduced from ten to eight
per cent per annum. Blank checks to draw the money in his
hands were prepared by the officers of the company, and were
drawn on him, not as treasurer, but as a private banker; and
he testifies that it was never understood at any meeting of the
company that there were any funds of the company in his
hands as treasurer, and that the funds on hand were always
reported as funds in bank, and were so described in the published reports of the company.
Decided confirmation of the material parts of these statements
comes from several witnesses; and it appears to the entire satisfaction of the court that the arrangement set forth in the bill
of complaint was known to and approved by the stockholders
as well as the directors, and by the executive committee and
the committee of finance and investment. Deposits undoubtedly may be made with a banker under circumstances where
the legal conclusion would be, that the title to the fund deposited remained in the depositor; and in that case the banker
would become the bailee of the depositor, and the latter might
rightfully demand the identical money deposited as his property : but where the deposit is general, and there is no special
agreement proved inconsistent with such a theory, the title to
VotO.
11.

24

ScAMIMrON V. KIMBALL, ASSIGINEE.

[Sulp. Ct.

the money deposited, whatever it may be, passes to the banker,
and he becomes liable for the amount as a debt which can only
be discharged by a legal payment of the amount. Thempaon
v. Riggs, 5 Wall. 678; Bank v. Wister, 2 Pet. 325.
All deposits made with bankers, said Mr. Justice Miller,
may be divided into two classes: namely, those in which the
bank becomes bailee of the depositor, the title to the thing
deposited 'remaining with the latter; and that other kind of
deposit of money, peculiar to banking business, in which the
depositor for his own convenience parts with the tit e of his
money, and loans it to the banker; and the latter, in consideration of the loan of the money and the right to use it for his own
profit, agrees to refund the same amount, or any part thereof, on
demand. Marine Bank v. Fulton Bank, 2 Wall. 256.
Such an agreement to refund may be express or implied; and,
if it is. express, it may be to refund with or without interest,
according to the terms of the agreement. Where the agreement is to pay interest, the agreement is obligatory; but the
fact that the depositary agreed to pay interest affords very
strong evidence that the title to the money deposited passed
out of the depositor by the act of making the deposit.
Money deposited with a banker, says Hill, creates a legal
debt between the parties, which, under proper circumstances,
may be recovered in an action at law. Hill on Trustees, 4th
Am. ed., 173.
Authorities to the same effect are numerous and decisive;
as, for example, it was expressly decided by the Master of the
Rolls that money paid to a banker becomes immediately a
part of his general assets, and he is merely a debtor for the
amount. Devaynes v. Noble, I Meriv. 561.
Sums which are paid, said Lord Denman, to the credit of a
customer with a banker, though usually called deposits, are,
in truth, loans by the customer to the banker; and the party
who seeks to recover the balance of such an account must
prove that the loan was in reality intended to be his, and
that it was received as such. Sims v. Bond, 2 Barn. & Ad. 392.
Exactly the same rule was laid down in the Court of Exchequer, where it was held that money deposited with a banker
by his customer, in the ordinary way, is money lent to the

Oct. 1875.]

SCA'IMION V. KIMBALL, ASSIGNEE.

banker, with a superadded obligation that it is to be paid when
demanded by a check. Pott v. Clegg, 16 Mee. & Wels. 327.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions, it is clear that the
amount deposited by the company with the complainant, and
which he still owes to the company, or to the respondent as
assignee, was and is held by him as a private banker, and not
as treasurer of the company; and that any losses sustained by
the complainant, at the time and in the manner alleged, for
which the bankrupt corporation were and are liable as insurers,
may be set off against that claim of the bankrupt corporation,
as described in the pleadings in the original suit and cross-bill
filed by the respondent.
Nothing remains to be done in this investigation except to
recapitulate the elements for a decree, and to direct in general
terms what the new decree in the case shall be in the court
below. Enough is already remarked to show that the complainant is entitled to the relief prayed, so far as respects the
claim of the respondent for the balance due to the bankrupt
corporation for the moneys deposited with him as a private
banker, amounting to the sum of $39,188.03, as appears in the
record; and that he should be allowed to prove the balance due
to him for the said losses, to the extent that the company is
liable therefor, against the estate of the bankrupt corporation;
that the complainant is not entitled to the relief prayed, so far
as respects the notes referred to in the bill of complaint, for
the reason that the notes were given for shares in the capital
stock, and constitute a trust-fund which belongs to all the
creditors of the company, for which the complainant in the
cross-bill is entitled to a decree.
Should further investigation become necessary in order to
ascertain the exact amount of the respective claims, that investigation will be made by the Circuit Court.
Decree reversed, and cause remanded for such further proceedings as may be necessary, and for decree in conformity
to the opinion of this court.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG did not sit during the argument, nor
take any part in the decision, of this case.

