Oct. 1875.]

THE " CITY OF WASHINGTON."

still in force there. The destruction of the institution can have
no effect upon the prior rights here in question.
In Osborn v. Nicholson et al., 13 Wall. 654, this court held,
upon the fullest consideration, that, where a note sued upon
was given for the purchase-money of slaves subsequently emancipated by the national government, the plaintiff was entitled to
recover.
The Court of Claims adjudged correctly in deciding against
Hall upon the ground we have considered, and also in deciding
Judgments affirmed.
in favor of the executrix of Roach.

TnaE " CITY OF WASHIGTON."
Sailing rules and regulations prescribed by law furnish the paramount rule or
decision, whenever they are applicable; but where, in any case, a disputed
question of navigation arises, in regard to which neither they, nor the rules
of this court regulating the practice in admiralty, have made provision, evidence of experts as to a general usage regulating the matter is admissible.

.A-PAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of New York.
Mr. James W. Gerardfor the appellants.
Mr. Henry J Scudder for the appellees.
ANIt.JUSTICE CLIFFoRD delivered the opinion of the court.
Usages, called sea laws, having the effect of obligatory regulations, to prevent collisions between ships engaged in navigation, existed long before there was any legislation upon the
subject, either in this country or in the country from which
our judicial system was largely borrowed.
Plenary jurisdiction was conferred upon the courts in such
controversies; and the judicial reports show, beyond peradventure, that the courts, both common-law and admiralty, were
constantly in the habit of referring to the established usages of
the sea as furnishing the rule of decision to determine whether
any fault of navigation was committed in the particular case;
and, if so, which of the parties, if either, was responsible for
the consequences.

THE

"CITY

OF WASHINGTON."

[Sup. Ot.

Examples of the kind are quite too numerous for citation,
and they are amply sufficient to prove that the usages of the
sea, antecedent to the enactment of sailing rules, constituted
the principal source from which the rules of decision, in such
controversies, were drawn by the courts of admiralty and all
the best writers upon the subject of admiralty law. Maclachlan on Ship., 2d ed., 280; Williams & Bruce's Prac., pp. 4, 15.
Sailing rules and other regulations have since been enacted;
and it is everywhere admitted that such rules and regulations,
in cases where they apply, furnish the paramount rule of decision; but it is well known that questions often arise in such
litigations, outside of the scope and operation of the legislative
enactments. Safe guides, in such cases, are often found in the
decisions of the courts, or in the views of standard text-writers :
but it is competent for the court, in such a case, to admit evidence of usage; and, if it be proved that the matter is regulated
by a general usage, such evidence may furnish a safe guide as
the proper rule of decision.
Compensatory damages are claimed by the libellants for the
value of the schooner "John D. Jones," employed as a pilotboat, which it appears was sunk and became a total loss in a
collision that occurred on the 28th of March, 1871, between the
schooner and the steamship "City of Washington," the latter
being on her return voyage from Europe to the port of New
York. Just prior to the collision, it appears that the schooner
was lying-to, some two hundred miles off Sandy hook, with
her helm lashed on her starboard tack, and with her jib-sheet
to the windward. While lying in that condition, the wind
being north-west by north, a light was reported bearing from
the schooner south by east, off the port quarter of the schooner.
It appears that the schooner was a pilot-boat, with foresail, mainsail, and jib; and that her sails, except the jib-sheet, were
closely reefed, as she was waiting for employment as a pilotboat. Seeing the light, the first act of those in charge of her
navigation was to give sail, put up her helm, and let her fall
off; and in the mean time they showed her flash-light, that the
approaching vessel might know that the schooner was a pilotboat waiting for employment.
Such lights are shown, under such circumstances, to disclose

Oct. 1875.]

THE " CITY OF WASHINGTON."

the special character of the vessel; and the evidence shows that
the approaching vessel immediately displayed a blue light, which
is the proper signal to show to a pilot-boat to signify that the
light of the pilot-boat is seen, and that her services as such
are wanted. Such a signal shows that the flash-light is seen,
that the character of the boat displaying the same is known,
and that the vessel displaying the blue light is coming up to
secure a pilot.
When the master of the schooner first discerned the blue
light of the approaching vessel, the schooner bore from the
blue light, about west by north, as near as those in charge of
the schooner could judge. Enough appears to warrant the
conclusion that the schooner kept her course to the southward
and westward, and that those in charge of her very soon discovered the signal-lights of the approaching vessel. Beyond
doubt, they first made the green light; but it appears, that,
shortly after that, they made all three of the approaching
signal-lights, and became convinced that it was a steamship
heading directly towards the schooner for the purpose of
securing the assistance of a pilot. Pursuant to that obvious
purpose, the steamship continued to keep that course until she
got within about a quarter of a mile of the schooner, when she
ported her helm, the effect of which was to close her green
light, and to show her red light and masthead-light, indicating
that the steamship would cross the stern of the schooner.
Considerable change must have been made in the course of
the steamship, as the master of the schooner testifies that he
could even see the glimmerings of the side-lights of the windows on the side of the vessel, showing that she was crossing
the stern of the schooner. Throughout this period the evidence
shows that those in charge of the schooner continued to show
the flash-light to indicate their position and the course of the
schooner.
Both palties concede that the wind was north-west by north;
and it follows that the change in the course of the steamship,
effected by porting her helm, was to constitute the starboard
side of the vessel her lee side, which is the side where a pilot
properly goes on board. With that object in view the schooner
continued her course, constantly showing the flash-light, until
VOL. 11.

THE " CITY OF WASHINGTON."

[Sup. Ct.

the two vessels were within five or six lengths of each other,
when the schooner launched hei -awl, manned by a pilot and
two seamen, whose destination was to the lee side of the steamship. It appears that the yawl carried a light, and that she
headed for the light hung over the lee side of the steamship to
indicate the place where the pilot might ascend the stairs and
go on board the approaching steamship.
All agree, it is presumed, that the preparations to send tho
pilot on board were judicious and proper, except that the
owners of the steamship insist that the schooner was not in a
proper position when those in charge of her launched the
yawl and despatched the pilot, as requested by the customary
signal from the steamship. Signals of the kind, it is admitted,
were given; and the master of the schooner testifies that the
schooner, at the time she launched the yawl, was crossing the
bows of the steamship, and that the steamship, before the yawl
reached her destination, starboarded her helm, and changed her
course, so that she headed directly towards the schooner.
Nothing could have been more injudicious, as the two vessels
were then close together; and it appears that the steamship
was still under considerable headway, and that she struck the
schooner on her port side just abaft the mainmast, cutting five
or six feet into the hull of the vessel. Convincing proof is
also exhibited that the steamship approached the schooner at
an obtuse angle towards the stem; that her bowsprit hit the
mainmast of the schooner, and broke it into three pieces;
that the concussion of the two vessels careened the schooner
over, so that the water flowed down the weather-hatches; and
that the master was knocked overboard by the falling spar.
Immediate assistance was furnished, and he was rescued from
danger but the schooner sank in less than fifteen minutes.
Service was made, and the owners of the steamship appeared
and filed an answer. Testimony was taken; and the Dist: ict
Court, having first heard the parties, entered a decree in favor
of the libellants for the value of the schooner. No question
being made as to the amount awarded, it is not necessary to
refer to the proceedings before the master. Appeal was taken
by the respondents to the Circuit Court, where the parties
were again beard; and the Circuit Court affirmed the decree of

Oct. 1875.]

THE "CITY

OF WASHINGTON."

the District Court. Still dissatisfied, the respondents removed
the case into this court for re-examination.
Sufficient appears, in the statement of facts exhibited in the
preliminary summary of the evidence, to show that the steamship was proceeding westward to her port of destination, and
that the schooner, though lying-to when the light of the st~amship first became visible, was, in fact, on a cruise in pursuit of
employment as a pilot-boat. Pilot-boats, it should be remarked,
are required to carry a masthead-light; and the evidence shows
that the schooner did not display any such light, as prescribed by the rules of navigation. 13 Stat. 59.
Flash-lights were constantly exhibited by the schooner; and
it is fully proved that the steamship showed, in reply, a blue
light, to signify that the flash-light was seen, and that a pilot
was wanted. These signals having been exchanged, the steamship altered her course to north-west by north, which was a
proper manoeuvre to meet the schooner; and it appears that
the schooner bore away to the southward and westward for the
reciprocal purpose of meeting the steamship, to comply with
her request for a pilot.
Apparently, each understood the purpose and intent of the
other; nor are any remarks necessary to show that the course
adopted by the respective vessels, if pursued for any considerable distance, would cross each other as the vessels advanced;
and the proofs show, that, when they had approached within a
quarter of a mile of each other, the steamship ported her helm
sufficiently to make her starboard side her lee side, and that
those in charge of her navigation showed a light over her lee
side to guide the pilot as to the place where he should board
the steamship. Pursuant to that signal, the schooner, as she
was crossing the bow of the steamship, launched the yawl, as
before explained, and despatched the pilot for the steamship.
Complete success attended the launching of the yawl; and it
appears that the pilot, aided by two seamen, rowed the yawl
directly for the light suspended over the lee side of the steamship. Equipped as the yawl was with a good light, it was the
duty of those in charge of the steamship's navigation to make
the necessary preparations to receive the pilot on board: but,
before he had time to reach the point of destination in the

THE " CITY OF WASHINGTON."

LSup. Ct.

yawl, the steamship starboarded her helm; and, failing to
stop, she advanced and struck the schooner in the manner
antecedently described, injuring her to such an extent that she
sank, and became a total loss.
Two faults are charged against the steamship: (1.) That
she starboarded her helm, which is admitted; and of course it
requires no argument to establish the charge. (2.) That she
did not stop, so as to give the schooner the opportunity to send
a pilol on board, without being run down while endeavoring to
perform that duty.
Argument to show that the faults imputed to the steamship,
if proved, were culpable faults, is hardly necessary, as it is
clear that each tended, beyond all doubt, to promote the collision. Discussion as to the first charge is unnecessary, as it
is admitted; and the evidence to prove the other is too decisive
to require comment, when considered in connection with the
effects produced by the concussion.
Suppose that is so: still it is insisted by the respondents that
the schooner was also in fault; and they make two charges
against the schooner, which are the only questions that remain
to be considered. They are as follows: (1.) That the schooner
did not show any masthead-light. (2.) That she was guilty
of negligence in attempting to cross the bows of the steamship.
Masthead-lights should be displayed by pilot-boats in such
a case; and it follows that such an omission of duty casts upon
the schooner the burden of proving that the omission in that
regard did not occasion or contribute to the collision. The
Parragut,10 Wall. 338; The Miranda, 6 McLean, 221; Bidloch v. Lamar, 8 Law Rep. 275; The Louisiana, 6 Am. Law
Reg. 422; 1 Pars. on Ship. 577, 595; Taring v. Clark, 5 How.
465; The Vanderbilt, 16 Conn. 420.
Lights of the kind are required as one of many precautions
which pi udent navigators are expected to provide; but it would
be unreasonable to hold that the owners of a pilot-vessel should
be adjudged liable for the consequences of a collision by reason
of not having a masthead-light, where it appeared, beyond all
doubt, that she constantly showed flash-lights, which were seasonably seen by the other vessel, and that the absence of the

Oct. 1875.]

THE "CITY OF WASHINGTON."

masthead-light had nothing to do with the collision.
The
Panther, Spink's Adm. 31; M2orrison v. .Nav. Co., 8 Exch. 783.
Sailing pilot-boats are required to carry the masthead-light,
besides displaying the flare-up light, in order that they may
be seen by approaching vessels, and that the approaching
vessel may not be misled in respect to the character of the
ressel showing such a light. The Trident, Spink's Adm. 223;
The Telegraph, id. 431.
Clear proof is exhibited that the schooner did not carry the
required masthead-light; but it is equally clear that she was
seasonably seen by the steamship, and that those in charge of
the navigation of the steamship were not misled, even for a
moment, as to the character of the schooner. The Livingstone,
Swabey, 520. Instead of that, the evidence is full to the point
that they immediately replied to the signal of the flash-light
by showing the blue light, and in due season showed the lee
side of the ship, and lowered a light over the rail on that side
as a signal to the pilot to approach the ship at that point, in
order to come on board.
Proof more satisfactoiy than what is given in this case cannot
be required to show that the absence of the masthead-light did
not contribute in any degree to the collision. Such an omission
to comply with the rules of navigation, where it clearly appears
that it had nothing to do with the disaster, is not sufficient to
exonerate the culpable party from any portion of the damages.
Grant all that, and still it is contended by the respondents
that the schooner was guilty of negligence in attempting to
cross the bows of the steamship. '"hat they insist is, that the
schooner, inasmuch as she was on her starboard tack when the
steamship approached, should have put her helm up, and gone
round on the lee side of the steamship. Difficulty might have
:'ttended that manuvre, as the purpose was to despatch the
yawl with the pilot on board to the lee side of the approaching
vessel; and, if the schooner had followed the yawl on the same
side of the steamship, she might have become unmanageable, as
in a calm; or, if the wind continued to fill her sails, she might
have run down the yawl, or have prevented the yawl from reaching her precise point of destination.
Opposed to that suggestion, it is maintained by the libel-

THE "CITY OF WASHINGTON."

[Sup. Ot.

lants that the manceuvre of the schooner was in all respects
correct, and the most judicious- which could have been adopted.
Gross fault, it is clear, was committed, either by the steamship
or by the schooner. If the manceuvre of the schooner was correct, then it is clear that the steamship ought to have stopped,
and backed, if necessary, to prevent her from making headway,
to enable the schooner to despatch the pilot in safety and without danger to the steamship.
Reasonable doubt upon that subject, it would seem, caniot
be entertained by any one having much nautical experience;
and it would seem to follow, if the steamship might, under the
circumstances, continue to make headway, that it was bad seamanship for the schooner to attempt to cross her bows, as the
attempt, under such circumstances, would expose her in every
case to the danger of collision.
Neither party controverts these propositions; but the libellants contend that it was a gross error on the part of the steamship to starboard her helm at that moment, and that it was her
duty to have stopped, and backed if necessary, so as to have
given the schooner a safe opportunity to despatch the pilot to
the steamship, without danger of being run down by the forward movement of the steamship. Apart from that, they also
insist that it was proper and customary that the schooner, after
she- had despatched the pilot, should cross the bows of the
steamship and proceed to her windward side, in order to pick
up the yawl, under the stern of the steamship, as she moved
forward from where she stopped to receive the pilot.
Support to that theory is also attempted to be drawn from
the danger, if a different course should be pursued, that the
yawl and the schooner would become separated in the dark.ness, to the great peril of the seamen sent in the yawl to assist
in despatching the pilot. Extreme difficulty attends the solution of the question, as nothing is found in the sailing rules
enacted by Congress to assist in determining which theory is
correct. Questions of the kind, if presented in the admiralty
court of England, would doubtless be submitted, in the first
instance, to the Trinity Masters for their consideration and
advice; and it cannot be doubted that much aid would be
derived. in such an investigation, from the experience and nau.

Oc . 1875.]

THE " CITY OF WASHINGTON."

tical knowledge of such a board of judicial assistants: but the
acts of Congress, regulating the practice and proceedings of
the district courts sitting in admiralty, have not made any
provision for any such board of assistants, to sit with the district judges, in the adjudication of such controversies. Nor do
the rules regulating the practice of the admiralty courts, as
framed by this court, make any such provision. Parties litigant, however, are allowed in such controversies to call and
examine persons of nautical skill and experience as expert witnesses; and they may, if they can, prove by them what the
general usage is in respect to any disputed question of navigation not controlled by the sailing rules prescribed by
Congress; and in certain cases, where better guides are not furnished by law, they may inquire of such witnesses what is and
what is not good seamanship in a supposed state of the case, if
the supposed state of the case is within the general scope and
range of the evidence submitted for the consideration of the
court. Nor is such a course of investigation without its advantages, even as compared with the foreign system, as it
secures to the parties the right of cross-examination, which is
always a right of great value, and more especially so where
the witness is allowed to give his opinion to influence the judgment of the court in determining the merits of the controversy.
Valuable aid, also, is sometimes obtained, in such an investigation, by referring the cause to a special master, or masters,
of nautical experience, with power to examine witnesses, and
to report the facts to the court. Such a proceeding, though
not specifically authorized by law or the rules prescribed by
this court, cannot be considered irregular, as the power of final
decision is still in the tribunal to which the report is made.
Expert witnesses were examined in the case. They testified
to the effect that the pilot-boat, in such cases, approaches directly ahead of the steamship ; that the steamship makes either
side of her the lee side, as under the circumstances is most convenient ; that the steamship indicates the place on the lee side
where the pilot may come on board by suspending a bright
light over the lee side at the proper place, down near the water;
that the steamship then stops, to enable the small boat to
approach the side of the steamship, and to allow the pilot to

TiE

"CITY

OF WASHINGTON."

[Sup. Ct.

ascend the stairs without danger. When asked why it was
that the pilot-boat went ahead of the steamship, the witnesses
answered that it was because they could see both sides of the
ship, and that they might conveniently pick up the yawl on the
lee quarter of the steamship.
Among others, the pilot who was despatched to the steamship was examined. He testified that it was customary to get
directly ahead of the steamship before dropping the yawl;
that it is pretty difficult to overtake the steamship unless
she stops still; and that there would not have been any
collision if the steamship had stopped, as she should have
done. Mosly, another pilot, testifies, that, when they first see
the steamship, the pilot-boat shows a flash-light, and that the
steamship, in reply, shows a blue light or rocket; that the pilotboat advances nearly ahead of the steamship; and, if the white
light is shown over the lee side of the steamship, the pilotboat drops a small boat, with a pilot on board, and that those
manning it pull for the steamship, heading for the white light
suspended over the lee side, which should be down near the
water; and they all concur that the steamship, after showing
the light over her lee side, should remain without headway;
and some of them add, that, if she changes her position, it is at
her own risk.
They all agree, except the master of the steamship, that the
manoeuvres of the schooner were correct; but he insists that
the schooner should have put up her helm, dropped the yawl, and
run down under the lee of the steamship. His testimony supports the theory of the respondents; but the great weight of the
evidence is the other way.
Both of the courts below decided against the respondents;
and the court here is of the opinion, that the usage, as proved
in the case, warrants the conclusion that the course pursued by
the schooner, under the circumstances, was correct.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions, the court here concurs with the Circuit Court, that it is impossible to say that
the collision was in any degree due to the want of a mastheadlight on the schooner, or to negligence on the part of those in
charge of her navigation : on the contrary, it is clear that the
steamship is guilty of both, charges preferred against her by i he

Oct. 1875.]

ROBERTS ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

41

libeflants. She improperly starboarded her helm after the yawl
was launched, and she continued to advance; whereas she should
have stopped and backed, if it was necessary to back, to prevent any forward movement.
-Decree affirmed.

ROBERTS ET AL., TRUSTEES, v.

UNITED STATES.

Contractors for the transportation of. the mails between New York and New Orleans, touching at Havana, and between Havana and Chagres, having subsequently established a direct line between New York and Chagres, which made
the passage between the latter points in a shorter time, by two days, than the
mail-ships running under the contract by way of Havana, consented to take the
Chagres and California mails outward and homeward by the direct steamers,
without requiring from the Post-Office Department a prior stipulation to pay for
the extra service, but without precluding themselves from applying to Congress
for such compensation as it might deem just and reasonable. To this arrangement the Postmaster-General assented, with the understanding that his department did not thereby become responsible for any additional expense. Application was made to Congress for equitable relief, and an act passed referring the
claim to the Court of Claims, with directions to examine the same, and determine and adjudge what, if any, amount was due for extra service. Held, that
the Court of Claims is authorized to adjudge such an allowance as is required
ex wquo a bono by all the circumstances of the case.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims.
Submitted on printed arguments by Mr. Thomas WMilson for
the appellant, and by Mr. Solicitor- @eneral Phillips for the
appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
Immediately after the conquest of California, the government of the United States, through its various departments,
made arrangements for the transportation of the mails between
that territory and the Atlantic ports by way of Panama. By
an act of Congress, passed March 3,1847, it was, amongst other
things, enacted as follows: "SECT. 4. And be it further enacted, That, from and immediately after the passage of this act, it shall be the duty of the Secretary of the Navy to contract, on the part of the government of the
United States, with A. G. Sloo, of Cincinnati, for the transportation of the United States mail from New York to New Orleans

