Oct. 1875.]

HALL V. UNITED STATES, ETC.

HALL V. UNITED STATES.-UNITED STATES v. ROACH.
Prior to the abolition of slavery in Mississippi, a contract there made between
a slave and his master neither imposed obligations nor conferred rights upon
either party.

APPEALS from the Court of Claims.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
M1r. C. F. Peck, for the appellant Hall, cited Williamson v.
.Daniel,12 Wheat. 568; 2ifenard v. Aspasia, 5 Pet. 513; Mc.
Cutchen v. llarshall,8 id. 220 ; Fowlerv. ierrill,11 How. 375,

1 Pars. on Contr. 329; Butler v. Craig, 2 H. & McH. 216,1236;
Bawlings v. Boston, 3 id. 139; Hudgins v. Wright, 1 Hen. &
Munf. 134; Pallas et al. v. Hill et dl., 2 id. 149; Gregory v.
Bough, 2 Leigh, 686; Leiper v. Hoffman et al., 26 Miss. 623;
Pepoon v. Clarke, 1 Const. Ct. Rep. (S. C.) 137; Matilda v.
Crenzshaw, 4 Yerg. 299; Herod et al. v. Davis, 43 Miss. 102;
M1organ v. .elson, 43 Ala. 587.
M1r. Assistant Attorney- General Edwin B. Smith for the

United States.
Hr. T. H. N. iJicPhersonfor the appellee Roach.

Hall, being a slave, was not entitled to political or civil rights
while subject to his condition of servitude. Amy v. Smith.
1 Litt. 326; Lenoir v. Sylvester, 1 Bail. (S. C.) 633; Catche v..
The Circuit Court, 1 Miss. 608; Vincent v. Duncan, 2 id.
214; Hall v. Ml]ullin, 5 Har. & J. (Md.) 190; The State v. Hart,
4 Ired. (N. C.) 256; G-ist v. Coby, 2 Rich. (S. C.) 244; Jenkins
v. Brown, 6 Humph. (Tenn.) 299. His acquisitions belonged
to his master. 5 Cow. (N. Y.) 397; 2 Hill, Ch. (S. C.) 397.
1 Bail. (S. C.) 633 ; 2 Rich. (S. C.) 424; 6 Humph. (Tenn.)
299; 2 Ala. 320; 5 B. Monr. (Ky.) 186.
He had not the ability to contract or be contracted with
(Hallv. 3ullin,5 Hay. & J. 190; Gregg v. Thompson, 2 Const.

Ct. Rep. (S. C.) 331; Jenkins v. Brown, 6 Humph. 299, 5 Cow.
397; Emerson v. Howland et al., 1 Mas. 45; Bland and Others
v. Dowling, 9 Gill & J. 27), and could, therefore, make no
binding contract with his master.

11 B. Monr. 239; 9 Gill &

J. 19; 3 Bos. & P. 69; 8 Mart. 161.

HALL V. UNITED STATES, ETC.

[Sup. Ct.

MR. JUSTICE SwAY
delivered the opinion of the court.
Hall filed his petition in the Court of Claims.
By leave of the court, Benjamin Roach filed a petition of
interpleader. Subsequently Roach died, and his executrix was
made a party. Both parties are pursuing the proceeds of the
same cotton. The cotton was raised, ginned, and baled on
Roach's plantation, known as Bachelor's Bend, in the State
of Mississippi. About the 17th of April, 1863, it was seized by
Leutenant Barlow of the United States army, and subsequently
converted into money, and the proceeds paid into the treasury
of the United States. About these facts there is no controversy. It is admitted that the cotton belonged originally to
Roach. It is clear, therefore, that the claim on behalf of his
estate must prevail, unless Hall, the adverse claimant, has
shown a better title. Hence it is unnecessary to remark fiurther in regard to the title asserted by the executrix. The
United States have no interest in the controversy. The government is merely a fund-holder for the benefit of the one
of the two other parties who shall succeed in this litigation.
The controversy turns upon the claim of Hall, and our remarks
will be confined to that subject.
In considering the case in this aspect, we must look to the
findings of the court, and we cannot look beyond them. The
court says, "The evidence is not only voluminous, but exceedingly conflicting, and much of it wholly irreconcilable."
The findings as to this part of the case are as follows: Hall is a man of color, of Indian and African descent, and
claims to have been free born. His mother was of Indian
extraction, residing at the time of his birth in the city of
Alexandria as a free woman.
"8. Hall, with other slaves, was taken from a slave-market in
Washington, D. C., by one Thomas Williams, to New Orleans,
La.; and there he, with other slaves, was sold by a trader to the
claimant Roach's father, who sent him up to the Bachelor's Bend
plantation, in Mississippi. Hall was sent to the plantation in 1844,
and remained there as the slave of Roach's father until the latter's
death in 1847, and after that as the slave of the claimant Roach, who
succeeded to the estate of his father, and remained there until after
the cotton in question was seized in 1863. He was treated all the

Oct. 1875.]

HALL V. UNITED STATES, ETC.

time as a slave, fed and clothed by his master, and worked with
the other slaves, sometimes as a field-hand, and at others as a stockminder.
"9. On the contrary, Hall now claims to have been a free man
while living with claimant Roach, and that, as such, Roach was
justly indebted to him on account of stock, hogs, pork, &c., which
he had raised on Roach's plantation, and sold and delivered to him,
and that the cotton now in suit was given him by Roach in discharge of his indebtedness.
"10. Hall, under this claim of title, followed the cotton, after its
seizure, to the river, and made affidavit that he was the lawful
owner thereof. Roach's overseer, McDowell, hearing of Hall's
claim to the cotton, immediately contested his right to it before the
officers of the United States having it in charge ; and Hall afterward admitted to McDowell, the overseer, that the cotton was not
his, and that his oath, in which he asserted a claim thereto, was
false.
"Afterward, however, Hall continued to prosecute his efforts to
obtain the release of the cotton, and finally brought suit to recover
the proceeds in this court.
"I. On the foregoing facts, the court holds as conclusions of law,
that, under the laws of the State of Mississippi, the claimant Hall,
in his condition of servitude, could not lawfully contract with his
master, or hold the property he claims to have given in consideration
of the cotton, and that no title to it was ever vested in Hall."
It is one of the findings of fact that Hall admitted that he
had no title to the cotton, and that he had perjured himself in
swearing that he had such title; and the finding is without explanation or qualification. This would seem, under the circumstances, to have rendered it unnecessary further to consider the
case. But the court placed its judgment upon the conclusion
of law, that Hall, being a slave, could not contract. There is
no finding of facts as to the making of the alleged 2ontract.
Perhaps the reason was, that, conceding the facts to be as
claimed by Hall, still the court was of opinion that his having been then a slave was fatal to his claim. If such were the
law, the facts werb immaterial; for, whatever they were, they
could not avail him. As the record stands, this is the controlling point in the case. We have examined the subject with
care, and think the court came tc the proper conclusion.

HALL V.

UNITED STATES, ETC.

[Sup. Ot.

In order to see the proposition in its true light, it is necessary, as it were, to roll back the tide of time, and to imagine
ourselves in the presence of the circumstances by which the
parties were surrounded when and where the contract is said
to have been made. Slavery then existed in Mississippi, and
her laws upon the subject were as they had been for years.
fall was brought to the State, and there sold, bought, held,
and treated as a slave. He belonged ostensibly for years to
the father of Roach, the claimant; and, upon the death of the
father, the son succeeded to the father's rights. Hall held the
same relations to the latter which he had held to the former.
In this respect there was no change. His color was presumptive proof of bondage. The law of the State provided a way
in which he could establish his freedom. He could assert his
claim in no other way. The remedy was exclusive. Until he
had vindicated his right to freedom in the mode prescribed, the
law regarded him as a slave; and it would not allow the question to be collaterally raised in his behalf by himself, or any
one else in any other proceeding. Rev. Code of Miss. of 1857,
c. 33, sect. 3, arts. 10,11, pp. 236, 237; Tkorntonv. Demoss, 5 Sm.
& Mar. 618; Bandall v. The State, 4 id. 349; Peters v. Van
Sear, 4 Gill, 249; Queen v. NYeale, 3 H. & J. 158; Peters v.
Hfargrave, 5 Gratt. 14.
It was an inflexible rule of the law of African slavery, wherever it existed, that the slave was incapable of entering into
any contract, not excepting the contract of marriage. Stephens
on West Ind. Slav., 58; Hfall v. M.ullin, 5 lar. & J. 190; Gregg
v. Thompson, 2 Const. Ct. Rep. (S. C.) 331; Jenkins v. Brown,
6 Humph. 299; Jackson v. Lewey, 5 Cow. 397; .Emerson v.
Howland, 1 Mas. 45 ; Bland v. Dowling, 9 Gill & J. 27.
This regulation was harsher than that which obtained in regard to the Roman bondman, the Saxon villein, Russian serf,
and the German and Polish slave. Cobb on Slav., sect. 266.
In the light of these authorities, it is clear that if Hall did
contract with Roach, as he alleges he did, the contract was an
utter nullity. In the view of the law, it created no obligation,
and conferred no rights as to either of the parties. It was as
if it were not. This case must be determined as if slavery had
not been abolished in Mississippi, and the laws referred to were

Oct. 1875.]

THE " CITY OF WASHINGTON."

still in force there. The destruction of the institution can have
no effect upon the prior rights here in question.
In Osborn v. Nicholson et al., 13 Wall. 654, this court held,
upon the fullest consideration, that, where a note sued upon
was given for the purchase-money of slaves subsequently emancipated by the national government, the plaintiff was entitled to
recover.
The Court of Claims adjudged correctly in deciding against
Hall upon the ground we have considered, and also in deciding
Judgments affirmed.
in favor of the executrix of Roach.

TnaE " CITY OF WASHIGTON."
Sailing rules and regulations prescribed by law furnish the paramount rule or
decision, whenever they are applicable; but where, in any case, a disputed
question of navigation arises, in regard to which neither they, nor the rules
of this court regulating the practice in admiralty, have made provision, evidence of experts as to a general usage regulating the matter is admissible.

.A-PAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of New York.
Mr. James W. Gerardfor the appellants.
Mr. Henry J Scudder for the appellees.
ANIt.JUSTICE CLIFFoRD delivered the opinion of the court.
Usages, called sea laws, having the effect of obligatory regulations, to prevent collisions between ships engaged in navigation, existed long before there was any legislation upon the
subject, either in this country or in the country from which
our judicial system was largely borrowed.
Plenary jurisdiction was conferred upon the courts in such
controversies; and the judicial reports show, beyond peradventure, that the courts, both common-law and admiralty, were
constantly in the habit of referring to the established usages of
the sea as furnishing the rule of decision to determine whether
any fault of navigation was committed in the particular case;
and, if so, which of the parties, if either, was responsible for
the consequences.

