Oct. 1875.]

CHAMBERLAIN V. ST. PAUL, ETc. R.R. CO. ET AL.

299

This was after the bonds had been issued. The purchaser had
a right to rely upon the law as declared by the court when he
purchased, or when the bonds were issued, especially as it was
in accordance with the former decisions of the same court, and
with what has been decided in every other State, so far as we
know, and by this court. Then it had never been held that the
legisldture could not authorize the supervisor and town-clerk to
execute township bonds. True, it had been decided that the
power could not be conferred upon commissioners or perons
who were not officers of the township, and for the reason that
they were not the corporate authorities, but were persons having
reason
no interest in or control over the township affairs, -a
inapplicable to the township surpervisor and clerk; and certainly it had never been decided that an act of the legislature
validating an irregular election or an irregular exercise of
power by the officers of a municipal corporation was unconstitutional and inoperative. The decisions made in 1871, after
these bonds were issued,.are, in my judgment, the assertion of
new doctrine, which this court is not bound to follow, especially when it leads to such injustice as the present decision
exhibits.
For these reasons, I dissent from the judgment of the court.

CHAiBErLAmn

V. ST. PAUL Am SIOUX CITY RAno,
CoMAY ET AL.

1. The act of Congress of March 3, 1857, granting certain lands to the Territory
of'Mlinnesota for the purpose of aiding in the construction of several :ines
of railroad between different points in the Territory, only authorized for
each road, in advance of its construction, a sale of one hundred and twenty
sections. No further disposition of the land along either road was allowed,
except as the road was completed in divisions of twenty miles.
2. Where land is conveyed to the State by a corporation as indemnity against
losses on her bonds loaned to it, the bondholders have no equity for the
application of the land to the payment of the bonds which can be enforced
against the State, and her grantees take the property discharged of any
claim of the bondholders.
PPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Minnesota.

00

CHAMBERLAIN V. ST. PAUL, ETC.

R.

CO. ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

The plaintiff is the holder of bonds of the State of Minnesota, amounting to half a million of dollars, and seeks to charge
certain lands in the possession of the defendant railroad companies with their payment. The bonds were issued in 1859 to
the Southern Minnesota Railroad Company, under the authority
of the constitutional amendment of April, 1858. That company was one of the four companies to which the Territory of
Minnesota, on the 22d of May, 1857, granted the lands obtained
by the act of Congress of March 3 of that year. The grant of
the State was made in express terms, subject to the provisions
of the act of Congress, and would have been thus subject without any declaration to that effect. The act of Congress only
authorized a sale of one hundred and twenty sections for each
road in advance of its construction. Any further disposition of
the land along either road was allowed only as the road was
completed in divisions of twenty miles.
The Southern Minnesota Railroad Company was authorized
to construct two of the lines mentioned in the act of Congress,
and took, therefore, under the grant of the State, a title to
two hundred and forty sections. No title to any greater quantity passed from the State. In allowing one hundred and
twenty sections for each line to be disposed of before the construction of any part of the road, Congress intended to furnish
aid for such preliminary work as is required in all similar
undertakings. We do not understand that the complainant
contends that the company acquired an interest in any other
lands than the one hundred and twenty sections for each of its
roads.
In July of that year, the lines of the two roads were definitely surveyed and located to the extent of the grading subsequently made, and maps of the surveys were filed in the
General Land-Office at Washington; but it does not appear
that any other work for the construction of either of the roads
was done during the year.
TI e Territory of Minnesota became a State in October, 1857;
and was admitted into the Union in May, 1858. Its constitution prohibited the loan of the State credit in aid of any corporation; but the first legislature assembled under it, being
desirous of e.xpediting the construction of the lines of road in

Oct. 1875.]

CHAMBERLAIN V.

ST.

PAUL, ETC.

R.R. Co. w AL. 301

aid of which the congressional grant was made, proposed, in
March, 1858, an amendment to the constitution, removing this
prohibition so far as the four companies named in the act of
May 22, 1857, were concerned. The amendment was submitted
to the people, and, on the 15th of April of the same year, was
adopted. It provided, first, for the issue of bonds of the State
to the railroad companies; second, for taking from them security for the payment of the interest, and against loss on the
bonds thus issued; and, third, for a forfeiture of the lands and
franchises of the companies in case certain portions of their
respective roads were not completed within prescribed periods.
1st, The bonds were to be issued to each of the four companies, bearing interest at the rate of seven per cent per annum, payable semi-annually in the city of New York, to an
amount not exceeding $1,250,000 in instalments of $100,000,
as often as any ten miles of its road were ready for placing the
superstructure thereon, and an additional instalment of the
same amount as often as that number of miles of the road was
fully completed, and the cars were running thereon, until the
whole amount authorized was issued. The bonds were to be
denominated Minnesota State Railroad Bonds; they were to
be signed by the governor, countersigned and registered by the
treasurer, and sealed with the seal of the State; they were to
be issued in denominations not exceeding $1,000, payable to
the order of the company to whom issued, transferable by indorsement of the president of the company, and redeemable at
ai.y time after ten and before the expiration of twenty-five
years from their date; and for the payment of their interest,
and the redemption of their principal, the faith and credit of
the State were pledged.
2d, The security to be taken for the payment of the interest
on the bonds received by each company was to consist of an
instrument pledging the net profits of its road; and the security
against loss on the bonds was to consist of a conveyance to the
State of the first two hundred and forty sections of land, free
from prior incumbrances, which the company was or might be
authorized to sell, and a transfer to the treasurer of the State
of an amount of first-mortgage bonds on the roads, lands, and
franchises of the company, corresponding in amount to the State

802

CHAMBERLAIN V. ST. PAUL,

LT0. R.R. Co. ET

AL.

[Sup. Ct.

bonds issued to it. The delivery of the first-mortgage bonds
necessarily implied the execution of a mortgage or deed of trust
for their payment. In case either company made default in
the payment of the interest or principal of the bonds issued to
it by the governor, no more State bonds were to be thereafter
issued to that company; and the governor was to proceed to
sel, in such manner as might be prescribed by law, its bonds,
or the lands held in trust, or require a foreclosure of the mortgage executed by the company to secure its bonds.
3d, Each company which accepted the bonds of the State was
required, as a condition thereof, to complete not less than fifty
miles of its road on or before the expiration of the year 1861,
and not less than one hundred miles before the year 1864, and
four-fifths of the entire length of its road before the year 1866;
the amendment declared that any failure on the part of the
company to complete the number of miles of its road in the
manner and within the several times thus prescribed should
forfeit to the State all the rights, title, and interest of any kind
whatsoever in and to any lands granted by the act of May 22,
1857, together with the franchises connected with the same, not
pertaining to the portion of the road then constructed.
The Southern Minnesota Railroad Company accepted the
amendment, and executed the pledge of net profits and the
conveyance of the two hundred and forty sections required.
It also executed a deed of trust upon its roads and all its lands
and franchises to secure its first-mortgage bonds, to be transferred to the treasurer when State bonds were received. It
then entered upon the construction of its roads, and contracted
with the plaintiff to grade and prepare the road-beds for the
superstructure. During that and the following year 1859,
thirty-seven and a half miles of one of the roads and twenty
miles of the other road were thus graded by the plaintiff. As
often a's any ten miles of either of the roads were ready for the
superstructre, the governor issued to the company bonds of the
State to the amount of $100,000. Nearly all of these bonds,
amounting to half a million of dollars, were transferred to the
plaintiff for his work in grading the roads, and are still held
by him. They were indorsed by the president of the company
with a waiver of presentment, demand, and notice.

Oct. 1875.]

CHAMBERLAIN

V.

ST. PAUL,ETC.

R.R. CO.

ET AL.

303

An act of the legislature, passed on the 12th of August, 1858,
required the first-mortgage bonds of the company to be transferred to the treasurer, to be drawn so that the interest and
principal should mature sixty days before the maturity of the
interest and principal of the State bonds; and, as the bonds of
the company offered were accepted, we assume that they were
so drawn. The act also provided for 'he foreclosure of the
mortgage, or deed of trust, whenever default was made in the
payment of either interest or principal.
The company never completed any part of either of its roads,
and did nothing more than the grading mentioned; and it made
default in the payment of the interest maturing upon the State
bonds, and also in the payment of the interest accruing on its
first-mortgage bonds. The governor thereupon proceeded under
the above act, and an act passed on the 6th of March, 1860, and
procured a foreclosure of the mortgage of the company; and the
roads, lands, and franchises which it covered were sold pursuant
to its provisions, and at the sale were purchased by the State.
This purchase took place in October, 1860; and the necessary
conveyances were made to the State. From that time until
the 4th of March, 1864, the State held the property, lands, and
franchises thus acquired. During this period, it made repeated
efforts to induce other parties to undertake the enterprises and
carry them to completion, but without success.
On the 4th of March, 1864, the legislature passed an act by
which two new companies were organized, - one with the same
name as the original company, the Southern Minnesota Railroad Company; and the other by the name of the Minnesota
Valley Railroad Company. The name of this latter company
was afterwards changed to that of the St. Paul and Sioux City
Railroad Company.
To the companies thus organized the legislature granted, subject to certain conditions, all the property, rights, and fran,
chises of the original company which the State had acquired,
"ffree from all claims and liens :" those which appertained .o
one of the lines were granted to the new Southern Minnesota
Railroad Company; those which appertained to the other line
were granted to the Minnesota Valley Railroad Company, now
the St. Paul and Sioux City Railroad Company. The condi.

304

CHAIBERLAIN V. ST. PAUL, ETC. R.R.

QO.

ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

tions annexed to the grants were complied with, and the grants
accepted. These new companies soon afterwards commenced
the construction of their respective roads, and had, at the commencement of this suit, nearly completed them. The Southern
Minnesota Railroad Company had constructed and equipped
one hundred and sixty-seven miles of its road, at an expenditure of $5,000,000; and the St. Paul and Sioux City Railroad Company had constructed and equipped one hundred and
seventy miles of its road, at an expenditure of $3,000,000.
Upon the completion of ten miles of its road, each company
received from the governor, pursuant to the provisions of the
act, a deed in fee-simple of one hundred and twenty sections
of land appertaining to its road, to which the State was entitled under the congressional grant, and the bonds of the original Minnesota company transferred to the treasurer of the State
were cancelled.
The bonds of the State remaining unpaid, the present suit
was brought by the complainant to charge with their payment
the lands mortgaged to secure the State against loss on them
under the constitutional amendment of 1858.
The defendants, the railroad companies, and others appearedand answered the bill of complaint. Issue being joined upon
filing a replication, proofs were taken and the case heard on
them and the pleadings. The Circuit Court dismissed the bill.
and from its decree the complainant appealed to this court.
Hr. Gordon -E. Cole and 11r. W. 2. Evarts for the appellant.
The position of the State in relation to the bonds is that of
an accommodation maker of negotiable paper. She is simply
a surety. The original Southern Minnesota Railroad Company
which indorsed thg bonds is the principal debtor. Hence, upon
the doctrine of subrogation, the conveyance by that company
of any property to the State, to indemnify her, creates a trust
in favor of the holder of the bonds, and appropriates the property so conveyed as a fund for the payment of them. 1 Lead.
Cas. in Eq. 163, 164; 1 Story, Eq., sects. 502, 638.
The bonds are valid obligations, and the defendants are affected with notice of the facts on which the complainant bases.
his claim. He is therefore not estopped.
M]r. B. C. Palmer and i1r. James Gilfillan, contra.

Oct. 1875.] CHAMBERLAIN

V.

ST.

PAUL, ETC.

R.R. Co. ET AL. 305

Mn. JUSTICE FIELD, after making the foregoing statement
of the case, delivered the opinion of the court, as follows: Pending the proceedings stated, the bonds of the State in the
hands of the complainant remained unpaid, and they are still
unpaid. The faith of the State, solemnly pledged for the payment of both principal and interest, has never been kept. So
far from keeping it, the State, as early as November, 1860,
adopted an amendment to its constitution, prohibiting any law,
which levied a tax: or made other provision for such payment,
from taking effect until the same had been submitted to a vote
of the people and been adopted by them. This prohibition, if
not a violation of the State's pledge, conflicts with its spirit.
The bonds issued are legal obligations. The State is bound
by every consideration of honor and good faith to pay them.
Were she amenable to the tribunals of the country as private
individuals are, no court of justice would withhold its judgment
against her in an action for their enforcement.
The complainant, under these circumstances, finding no relief
from the pledged faith of the State, and unable to pursue any
remedies at law against her on the bonds, seeks to charge with
their payment the two hundred and forty sections mortgaged
by the original Southern Mlinnesota Railroad Company under
the. constitutional amendment of 1858 and purchased by the
State under the foreclosure of the mortgage, and now held by
the defendant railroad companies.
The position of the complainant is, that, notwithstanding the
form of the contract, the original company was, in fact, the principal debtor, and the State its surety; and that, as the creditor
to be paid, he is entitled to have the securities taken by the
State applied to the payment of the bonds held by him; that
the one hundred and twenty sections for each road, which the
company was authorized to construct, became its property by
the act of May 22, 1857; that the subsequent interest of the
State under the trust-deed and mortgage was only the right to
hold them as security against loss upon its bonds; that this
interest was not changed by the foreclosure of the mortgage
and purchase of the State at the sale; and that the lands passed
to the defendant railroad companies with notice that they were
thus held by the State.
VOL. 11.

20

806

CHAMBERLAIN V. ST. PAUL, EC.

R.R. Co. ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

The general doctrine, that a creditor has a right to claim
the benefit of a security given by his debtor to a surety for
the latter's indemnity, and which may be used if necessary
for the payment of the debt, is not questioned. The security
in such case is in the nature of trust-property, and the right
of the creditor arises from the natural justice of allowing
him to have applied to the discharge of his demand the
property deposited with the surety for that purpose if required by the default of the principal. In this case, the deed
and mortgage to the State were not intended to create a
trust in favdr of the holders of her own bonds. The State
was primarily liable to the bondholders; and it was only as
between her and the company that the relation of principal and
surety existed. It may be doubted whether the bondholders
could call upon the company in any event. The indorsement
made by the president simply transferred the bonds: it was not
the act of the company. Be that as it may, whatever right the
plaintiff had to compel the application of the lands received
by the State to the payment of the bonds held by him, it
was one resting in equity only. It was not a legal right arising
out of any positive law or any agreement of the parties. It
did not create any lien which attached to and followed the
property. It was a right to be enforced, if at all, only by a
court of chancery against the surety. But, the State being
the surety here, it could not be enforced at all, and, not being a
specific lien upon the property, cannot be enforced against the
State's grantees.
Where property passes to the State, subject to a specific lien
or trust created by law or contract, such lien or trust may be
enforced by the courts whenever the property comes under their
jurisdiction and control. Thus, if property held by the government, covered by a mortgage of the original owner, should
be transferred to an individual, the jurisdiction of the court to
enforce the mortgage would attach, as it existed previous to the
acquisition of the government. The Siren, 7 Wall. 158, 159.
But, where the property is not affected by any specific lien or
trust in the hands of the State, her transfer will pass an unincumbered estate.
But aside from this consideration, which of itself is a suffi-

Oct. 1875.]

LARAMIE COUNTY v. ALBANY COUNTY ET AL.

307

cient answer to the present suit, the long delay of the complainant in asserting any claim to the lands in controversy,
whilst the defendants were constructing, at a vast expenditure
of labor and money, their railroads, deprives his suit of favorable
consideration. It does not appear that for twelve years after
the abandonment of work by the original Minnesota Company
on the roads, the grading of which it commenced, he set up any
claim such as is advanced in this suit: on the contrary, it is
abundantly established that in various ways he urged upon
members of the legislature the adoption of measures for the
construction of the roads, which involved an appropriation by
the State for that purpose of the lands in controversy; and that
after the new companies were organized, and the lands were
granted to them, he urged them to proceed with the enterprises,
knowing that upon those lands they relied to carry on the
works. Under these circumstances, it would be manifestly inequitable and unjust to grant his prayer.
The conclusion we have reached renders it unnecessary to
consider the effect of the alleged forfeiture, declared by the
State, upon the interest of the company in the lands.
D~ecree a/ffirmecZ.
STROG dissented.
MR. JUSTICE

Co IssIONRs

op LARAmE CouNTY v. Co~mssioErs
oF ALBAbTY COUNTY ET AL.

1. Unless the constitution of a State or the organic law of a Territory other-

wise prescribes, the legislature has the power to diminish or enlarge the area
of a county, whenever the public convenience or necessity requires.

2. Where the legislature of Wyoming Territory organized two new counties, and
included within their limits a part of the territory of an existing county,
but made no provision for apportioning debts or liabilities,- Held, that the
old county, being solely responsible for the debts and liabilities it had previously incurred, had, on discharging them, no claim upon the new counties
for contribution.
APPEAL

from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Wyo-

ming.
31r. TV£R. Steele for the appellants.
3r. A. H. Jackson,. contra.

