REPORTS OF THE DECISIONS
Or THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED
OCTOBER TERM, 1875.

BLEASE v. GARLmIGTON.
1. Cases in equity come here from the circuit courts, and the district courts sitting as circuit courts, by appeal, and are heard upon the proofs sent up
with the record. No new evidence can be received here.
2. So much of the Judiciary Act of 1789 as relates to the oral examination of
witnesses in open court in causes in equity was not expressly repealed until
the adoption of the Revised Statutes, sect. 862 of which provides that "the
mode of proof in causes of equity and of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction
shall be according to the rules now or hereafter prescribed by the Supreme
Court, except as herein specially provided."
3. While this court does not say, that, even since the Revised Statutes, the circuit courts may not in their discretion, under the operation of existing rules,
permit the examination of witnesses orally in open court upon the hearing
of cases in equity, it does say that they are not now by law required to do
so; and that, if such practice is adopted in any case, the testimony presented in that form must be taken down, or its substance stated in writing
and made part of the record, or it will be entirely disregarded here on an
appeal.
4 If testimony is objected to and ruled out, it must still be sent here with the
record, subject to objection, or the ruling will not be considered. A case
will not be sent back to have the rejected testimony taken, even though*
this court might, on examination, be of opinion that the objection ought
not to have been sustained.
5. As this cause is in equity, the act of 1872 (17 Stat. 197; Rev. Stat., sect. 914)
has no application to it.
6. Wher a party, knowing the pecuniary condition of a debtor, purchased a
claim against him of an ascertained amount, an opinion, however erroneous,
expressed by the seller as to the value of the claim, does not affect the
validity of the sale. Under such circumstances, each party is presumed to
rely upon his own judgment.
TOL. 11.

BLEASE V.

GARLINGTON.

[Sup. Ct.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of South Carolina.
3fr. James Lowndes for the appellant.
lir. . T. Boyce for the appellee.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This suit was brought for the foreclosure of a mortgage made
by Blease to Garlington. The bill is in the ordinary form.
Blease, in his answer, admits the execution oi the note and
mortgage, but insists, by way of defence, that Garlington "deceived him as to the value of the consideration of the said note
and mortgage, and has not complied with his positive agreement." The history of the transaction, he says, is as follows: "The complainant, as the administrator of J. M. Young, deceased, held a large claim against the estate of John B. O'Neall,
deceased, who had been the guardian of the said J. M. Young; and
Robert Stuart and H. H. Kinard were the sureties on his bond.
The complainant had commenced suit on said bond against Robert
Stuart, and proceedings to force him into bankruptcy; and his life
seemed to be endangered by the excitement which this last proceeding produced, he being naturally in very feeble health. Under these
circumstances, negotiations were commenced between the complainant and this respondent, the friend of the said R. Stuart, in regard for
the sale of the claim of the said complainant against the said Robert
Stuart, as surety on the said guardianship-bond of said J. B. O'Neall,
deceased; and this respondent was induced to purchase said claim
at $6,000 ($4,000 of which was paid in cash, and the note described
in bill given for $2,000) by the assurance of the complainant that
said claim was worth at least $6,000, and he made some calculations
to show this, and said, as this claim was worth $6,000, it would not
be right for him to take less than that sum, and that he would not
do it. This purchase was made upon the further assurance and
undertaking of the complainant that he would obtain judgment for
this respondent. This defendant avers that said purchase would
not have been made by him at that price but for the said assurance
and promise of the complainant, in which this respondent put implicit confidence. This respondent, further answering, states, that
the said Robert Stuart died before judgment was obtained on said
claim; and this respondent has been informed and believes that his.

Oct. 1875.]

BLEASE V. GARLINGTON.

estate is so utterly insolvent that it will not pay any thing like the
sum of $6,000 on said claim, and he asks that this case be not tried
until the true condition of said estate can be ascertained. This
-defendant further submits to this honorable court that the complainant, having deceived this defendant as to the value of said
claim against Robert Stuart, and not having complied with his
part of the contract to obtain judgment on said claim, is not entitled to enforce collection of said note and mortgage in this corw t,
where equity is administered, and asks that the whole contract may
be set aside, and the complainant required to deliver up to this defendant the said note and mortgage to be cancelled, and to refund
the $4,000 paid in cash to him on said contract, with interest."
Upon the hearing in the court below, after the plaintiff had
submitted his case upon the pleadings and his mortgage, the
defendant presented himself as a witness to be examined orally
in open court, and proposed to testify to the following facts, to
wit: -.
"1. That one of the conditions of the original agreement for the
sale of the liability of Robert Stuart, as one of the sureties on the
bond of J. B. O'Neall, as guardian of J. M. Young, plaintiff's intes.
tate, to the defendant, was that the plaintiff should obtain judgment against the said R. Stuart; and that, when the agreement was
drawn up and presented to the defendant, he called attention of
plaintiff to the fact that that part of the agreement which obligated
him to get judgment had been left out, and insisted that it should
be inserted; and he was assured that that condition should be carried out, and that it was not necessary to rewrite the agreement
for the purpose of putting it in.
"2. That, during the negotiations for the sale of the aforesaid
liability of R. Stuart, the plaintiff represented to the defendant that
said liability or claim was worth at least $6,000; and that, in fact,
it is not worth $2,500.
"3. That the defendant did not know the then financial condition of R. Stuart, and put implicit confidence in the promises and
representations of the plaintiff, and would not have made the trade
but for such assurance."
His proposition, made in writing, is sent here as part of the
record. The court refused to receive the testimony, and it was
not taken. A decree having been entered in favor of Garling
ton, Blease brings the case here by appeal.

BLEASE V. GARLINGTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Cases in equity come here from the circuit courts, and the
district courts sitting as circuit courts, by appeal, and not by
writ of error. Rev. Stat., sect. 692. They are heard upon the
proofs sent up with the record from the court below. No new
evidence can be received here. Rev. Stat., sect. 698.
The facts relied upon by Blease were neither proved nor admitted in the court below. Testimony in support :f them was
offered; but it was not received. We do not know, that, if it
had been received, it would have been sufficient. If we find
that the court erred in refusing the testimony, we shall be
compelled to affirm the decree because of the lack of proof, or
send the case back for a new hearing.
An important question of practice is thus presented for our
consideration.
The Judiciary Act of 1789 (1 Stat. 88, sect. 30) provided
that the mode of proof by oral testimony and examination of
witnesses in open court should be the same in all the courts of
the United States, as well in the trial of causes in equity as
of actions at common law. By sect. 19 of the same act, it was
made the duty of the Circuit Court, in equity cases, to cause
the facts on which they founded their decree fully to appear
upon the record, either from the pleadings and decree, or a
statement of the case agreed upon by the parties or their
counsel, or, if they disagreed, by a stating of the case by the
court. Subsequently, in 1802 (2 Stat. 166, sect. 25), it was
enacted that in all suits in equity the court might in its discretion, upon the request of either party, order the testimony
of witnesses therein to be taken by depositions. In 1803
(2 Stat. 244, sect. 2) an appeal was given to this court in
equity cases, and it was provided, that, upon the appeal, a
transcript of the bill, answer, depositions, and all other proceedings in the cause, should be transmitted here. The case
was to be heard in this court upon the proofs submitted below.
In Conn. et al. v. Penn., 5 Wheat. 424, decided in 1820, this
court held that a decree founded in part upon parol testimony
must be reversed, because that portion of the testimony which
was oral had not been sent up. For this reason, among others,
the cause was sent back for further proceedings according to
equity. Chief Justice Marshall, in delivering the opinion of
the court, said (p. 426), -

Oct. 1&75.]

BLEASE V.

GAILINGTON.

"Previous to this act (that of 1803), the facts were brought before this court by the statement of the judge. The depositions are
substituted for that statement; and it would seem, since this court
must judge of the fact as well as the law, that all the testimony
which was before the Circuit Court ought to be laid before this
court. Yet the section (of the act of 1789) which directs that
witnesses shall be examined in open court is not, in terms, repealed. The court has felt considerable doubt on this subject,
but thinks it the safe course to require that all the testimony on
which the judge founds his opinion should, in cases within the
1-risdiction of this court, appear in the record."
Under the authority of the act of May 8, 1792 (1 Stat. 276,
sect. 2), this court, at its February Term, 1822, adopted certain
rules of practice for the courts of equity of the United States.
7 Wheat. v. Rules 25, 26, and 28 related to the taking of
testimony by depositions, and the examination of witnesses
before a master or examiner; but by Rule 28 it was expressly
provided that nothing therein contained should "prevent the
examination of witnesses viva voce when produced in open
court."

These rules continued in force until the January Term,
1842, when they were superseded by others then promulgated,
of which 67, 68, 69, and 78 related to the mode of taking
testimony, but made no reference to the examination of witnesses in open court, further than to provide, at the end of Rule
78, that nothing therein contained should "prevent the examination of witnesses viva voce when produced in open court, if the
court shall, in its discretion, deem it advisable."
Afterwards (in August, 1842) Congress authorized -his court
to prescribe and regulate the mode of taldng and obtaining evi
dence in equity cases. 5 Stat. 518, sect. 6. While these Rules
remained in force substantially as originally adopted, and before any direct action of the court under the special authority
of this act of Congress, the case of Sickles v. Gloucester Co.,
3 'Wall.. Jr., 186, came before ir. Justice Grier on the bircuit;
and he there held, that, notwithstanding the rules, witnesses
might still be examined in open court. It was his opinion
that the act of 1789 guaranteed to suitors the right to have
their witnesses so examined, if they desired it; that Rule 67

BLEASE V. GARLINGTON.

[Sup. Ct.

did not affect or annul the act of Congress or the policy established by it; and that a party had therefore the right to demand
an examination of witnesses within the jurisdiction of the court
ore tenus, according to the principles of the common law, either
by having them produced in court, or by having leave to crossexamine them, face to face, before the examiner.
This case was decided in 1856; and at the December Term,
1861, of this court, Rule 67 was amended so as to provide for
the oral examination of witnesses before an examiner. The
part of the rule as amended, pertinent to the present inquiry,
is as follows: "Either party may give notice to the other that he desires the
evidence to be adduced in the cause to be taken orally; and thereupon all the witnesses to be examined shall be examined before one
of the examiners of the court, or before an examiner to be specially
appointed by the court, the examiner to be furnished with a copy
of the bill and answer, if any; and such examination shall take
place in the plesence of the parties or their agents by their counsel or solicitors, and the witnesses shall be subject to cross-examination and re-examination, and which shall be conducted as near as
may be in the mode now used in common-law courts. The depositions taken upon such oral examinations shall be taken down in
writing by the examiner in the form of narrative, unless he determines the examination shall be by question and answer in special
instances, and, when completed, shall be read over to the witness
and signed by him in the presence of the parties or counsel, or such
of them as may attend; provided, if the witness shall refuse to
sign the said deposition, then the examiner shall sign the same:
and the examiner may, upon all examinations, state any special
matters to the court as he shall think fit; and any question or questions which may be objected to shall be noted by the examiner
upon the deposition, but he shall not have power to decide on the
competency, materiality, or relevancy of the questions; and the
cwurt shall have power to deal with the costs of incompetent,
immaterial, or irrelevant depositions, or parts of them, as may
be just."
The act of 1789, in relation to the oral examination of witnesses in open court, was not expressly repealed until the
adoption of the Revised Statutes, sect. 862 of which is as
follows:

-

Oct. 1875.]

BLEASE V. GARLINGTON.

"The mode of proof in causes of equity and of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction shall be according to the rules now or hereafter prescribed by the Supreme Court, except as herein specially
provided."
Since the amendment of Rule 67, in 1861, there could never
have been any difficulty in bringing a case here upon appeal,
so as to save all exceptions as to the form or substance of the
testimony, and still leave us in a condition to proceed to a final
determination of the cause, whatever might be our rulings upon
the exceptions. The examiner before whom the witnesses are
orally examined is required to note exceptions; but he cannot
decide upon their validity. He must take down all the examination in writing, and send it to the court with the objections noted. So, too, when depositions are taken according to
the acts of Congress or otherwise, under the rules, exceptions
to the testimony may be noted by the officer taking the deposition, but he is not permitted to decide upon them; and when
the testimony as reduced to writing by the examiner, or the
deposition, is filed in court, further exceptions may be there
taken. Thus both the exceptions and the testimony objected
to are all before the court below, and come here upon the appeal as part of the record and proceedings there. If we reverse
the ruling of that court upon the exceptions, we may still proceed to the hearing, because we have in our possession and can
consider the rejected testimony. But under the practice
adopted in this case, if the exceptions sustained below are
overruled here, we must remand the cause in order that the
proof may be taken. That was done in Conn. et al. v. Penn.,
supra, which was decided before the promulgation of the rules.
One of the objects of the rule, in its present form, was to prevent
the nec-essity for any such practice.
While, therefore, we do not say, that, even since the Revised
Statutes, the circuit courts may not in their discretion, under
the operation of the rules, permit the examination of witnesses
orally in open court upon the hearing of cases in equity, we do
say that now they are not by law required to do so; and that, if
such practice is adopted in any case, the testimony presented in
that form must be taken down or its substance stating in writing, and made part of the record, or it will be entirely disre-

BLEASE V. GARLINGTON.

[Sup. Ct.

garded here on an appeal. So, too, if testimony is objected to
and ruled out, it must still be sent here with the record, subject
to the objection, or the ruling will not be considered by us.
A case will not be sent back to have the rejected testimony
taken, even though we might, on examination, be of the opinion
that the objection to it ought not to have been sustained.
Ample provision having been made by the rules for taking the
testimony and saving exceptions, parties, if they prefer to adopt
some other mode of presenting their case, must be careful to see
that it conforms in other respects to the established practice of
the court.
The act of 1872 (17 Stat. 197, Rev. Stat., sect. 914) providing
that the practice, pleadings, and forms and modes of proceeding,
in civil causes in the circuit and district courts, shall conform,
as near as may be, to the practice, &c., in the courts of the
States, has no application to this case, because it is in equity,
and equity and admiralty causes are in express terms excepted
from the operation of that act.
We might, therefore, affirm the decree below, because there
is no testimony before us in support of the defence; but, if we
waive this question of practice,-which, on account of its importance, and the misapprehension that exists in respect to it in
some of the circuits, we have thought it proper at some length
to consider and determine, - and look to the merits of the case,
we find no error.
The defence, as stated in the answer, amounts to nothing
more than that Garlington, in the progress of the negotiations
for the sale of the claim against Stuart to Blease, stated that
the claim was worth $6,000, and undertook to obtain judgment
upon it for Blease, and that Stuart died before a judgment was
obtained, and his estate was so utterly insolvent that it would
not pay any thing like $6,000 on the claim. There is no pretence that there was not at least $6,000 due from Stuart, or that
Garlington had any better means of knowing his pecuniary
condition than Blease had: on the contrary, it appears that
Blease made the purchase because he was the friend of Stuart,
and desired to put a stop to the proceeding on the part of
Garlington to force him into bankruptcy, which seemed to be
endangering hia life in his then feeble state of health. Cer-

Oct. 1875.]

BLEASE

v.

GARLINGTON.

tainly, under such circumstances, it would have been easy for
Blease to test the truth or falsehood of the statement made by
Garlington; and, if he did not, it was his own fault. He had
no right to rely upon the representations of Garlington. It was
his duty to use reasonable diligence to inquire and ascertain
for himself whether Garlington's estimate of the value of the
claim was correct or not.
But again: from the answer itself, it is apparent that the
statement relied upon was only an expression of opinion as to
the value of the claim, and that Blease had no right to consider
it as any thing else. The language is, that "this respondent
was induced to purchase said claim at $6,000 by the assurance
of the complainant that said claim was worth at least $6,000;
and he made some calculations to show this, and said, as this
claim was worth $6,000, it would not be right for him to take
]ess than that sum, and that he would not do it." There seems
to have been no dispute as to the amount. All depended upon
the ability of Stuart to pay. Each of the parties had equal
opportunity of judging as to that. Certainly there is nothing
to show that Garlington had any advantage over Blease in this
respect. Garlington was pressing Stuart into bankruptcy to
coerce payment. This Blease desired to prevent, and for that
purpose was willing to purchase the debt, and pay for it as much
as it was worth. The parties were engaged in endeavoring to
ascertain what this was, and the whole subject was equally
open to both for examination and inquiry. Under such circumstances, neither party is presumed to trust the other, but to
rely upon his own judgment. Smith v. Richards,13 Pet. 87.
So, too, as to the alleged undertaking on the part of Garlington to obtain judgment on the claim. There is no allegation that he was not proceeding for that purpose, without
unnecessary delay, up to the time of the death of Stuart, or that
Blease, when Stuart did die, was not in as good condition, for
all the purposes of collection, without a judgment, as he could
have been with. We are clearly of the opinion, therefore, that
the answer, iftaken as true, did not present a valid defence;
and, as the defendant could not make any defence by his proof
different from that set out in his pleading, the court below very
properly refused to hear any testimony in support of the answer.

GAINES

v.

FUENTES ET AL.

[StlJ. Ct.

This makes it unnecessary to consider the questions presented
in the argument as to the competency of the proof offered.
Decree affirmed.

GAn,-s v. FUENTES ET AL.
I Ir cases where the judicial power of the United States can be applied only
because they involve controversies between citizens of different States, it
rests with Congress to determine at what time and upon what condition&
the power may be invoked, - whether originally in the Federal court, or
after suit brought in the State court; and, in the latter case, at what stage
of the proceedings, - whether before issue or trial by removal to a Federal
court, or after judgment upon appeal or writ of error.
2. As the Constitution imposes no limitation upon the class of cases involving
controversies between citizens of different States, to which the judicial
power of the United States may be extended, Congress may provide for
bringing, at the option of either of the parties, all such controversies within
the jurisdiction of the Federal judiciary.
3. The act of Congress of March 2, 1867 (14 Stat. 55S), in authorizing and requiring the removal to the Circuit Court of the United States of a suit
pending or afterwards brought in any State court involving a controversy
between a citizen of the State where the suit is brought and a citizen of
another State, thereby invests the Circuit Court with jurisdiction to pass
upon and determine the controversy when the removal is made, though
that court could not have taken original cognizance of the case.
4. A suit to annul a will as a muniment of title, and to restrain the enforcement
of a decree admitting it to probate, is, in essential particulars, a suit in equity ;
and if by the law obtaining in a State, customary or statutory, such a suit
can be maintained in one of its courts, whatever designation that court may
bear, it may be maintained by original process in the Circuit Court of the
United States, if the parties are citizens of different States.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana.
This is an action in form to annul an alleged will of Daniel
Clark, the father of the plaintiff in error, dated on the 18th of
July, 1818, and to recall the decree of the court by which it
was probated. It was brought in the Second District Court
for the Parish of Orleans, which, under the laws of Louisiana,
is invested with jurisdiction over the estates of deceased persons, and of appointments necessary in the course of their
administration.
The petition sets forth, that on the 18th of January, 1855,
the plaintiff in error applied to that court for the probate of
the alleged will; and that, by decree of the Supreme Court of

