Oct. 1875.]

SHUEY, EXECUTOR, V. UNITED STATES.

73

SKuEY, ExEcuToR, V. UNTED STATES.
1. Where a "liberal reward" was offered for informatiop leading to the apprehension of a fugitive from justice, and a specific sum for his apprehension, 1i(d, that a party giving the information which led to the arrest was entitled to the "liberal reward," but not to the specific sum, unless he, in fact,
apprehended the fugitive, or the arrest was made by his agents.
2 Where the offer of a reward is made by public proclamation, it may, before
rights have accrued under it, be withdrawn through the same channel in
which it was made. No contract arises under such offer until its terms are

complied with.

The fact that the claimant of such reward was ignorant of

its withdrawal is immaterial.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims.
Henry B. Ste. Marie filed his petition in the Court of Claims
to recover the sum of $15,000, being the balance alleged to be
due him of the reward of $25,000 offered by the Secretary of
Var, on the 20th of April, 1865, for the apprehension of John
H. Surratt, one of Booth's alleged accomplices in the murder
of President Lincoln.
The court below found the facts as follows: 1. On the 20th April, 1865, the Secretary of War issued,
and caused to be published in the public newspapers and otherwise, a proclamation, whereby he announced that there would
be paid by the War Department "for the apprehension of
John H. Surratt, one of Booth's accomplices," $25,000 reward,
and also that "liberal rewards will be paid for any information
that shall conduce to the arrest of either of the above-named
criminals or their accomplices;" and such proclamation was not
limited in terms to any specific period, and it was signed "Edwin
M. Stanton, Secretary of War." On the 24th November, 1865,
the President caused to be published his order revoking the
reward offered for the arrest of John H. Surratt. 13 Stat.
1778.
2. In April, 1866, John H. Surratt was a zouave in the
military service of the Papal government, and the claimant was
also a zouave in the same service. During that month he commiunicated to Mr. King, the American minister at Rome, the
fact that he had discovered and identified Surratt, who had
confessed to him his participation in the plot against the life
Df President Lincoln. The claimant also subsequently commu-

SHUBY, EXECUTOR,

V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

nicated further information to the same effect, and kept watch,
at the request of the American minister, over Surratt. Thereupon certain diplomatic correspondence passed between the
government of the United States and the Papal government
relative to the arrest and extradition of Surratt; and on the 6th
November, 1866, the Papal government, at the request of the
United States, ordered the arrest of Surratt, and that he be
brought to Rome, he then being at Veroli. Under this order
of the Papal government, Surratt was arrested; but, at the moment of leaving prison at Veroli, be escaped from the guard
having him in custody, and, crossing the frontier of the Papal
territory, embarked at Naples, and escaped to Alexandria in
Egypt. Immediately after his escape, and both before and
after his embarkation at Naples, the American minister at
Rome, being informed of the escape by the Papal government,
took measures to trace and rearrest him, which was done in Alexandria. From that place he was subsequently conveyed by the
American government to the United States; but the American
minister, having previously procured the discharge of the claimant from the Papal military service, sent him forward to Alexandria to identify Surratt. At the time of the first interview
between the claimant and the American minister, and at all
subsequent times until the final capture of Surratt, they were
ignorant of the fact that the reward offered by the Secretary of
War for his arrest had been revoked by the President. The
discovery and arrest of Surratt were due entirely to the disclosures made by the claimant to the American minister at
Rome; but the arrest was not made by the claimant, either at
Veroli, or subsequently at Alexandria.
3. There has been paid to the claimant by the defendants,
under the act of 27th July, 1868 (15 Stat. 234, sect. 3), the
sum of $10,000. Such payment was made by a draft on the
treasury payable to the order of the claimant, which draft was
by him duly indorsed.
The court found as a matter of law that the claimant's service, as set forth in the foregoing findings, did not constitute an
arrest of Surratt within the meaning of the proclamation, but
was merely the giving of information which conduced to the
arrest. For such information the remuneration allowed to him

Oct. 1875.]

SHUEY, EXECUTOR, V. UNITED STATES.

under the act of Congress was a full satisfaction, and discharges the defendants from all liability.
The petition was dismissed accordingly: whereupon an appeal
was taken to this court.
Ste. Marie having died pendente lite, his executor was substituted in his stead.
1r. D. B. leany and Mr. P. Carroll Brewster, for the appeflant, cited 14 Pet. 448; 15 id. 337; 18 How. 92; 2 Curt.
617; 1 How. 290; 7 Wall. 666; 1 Nott & H. 292; 4 S. & R.
241; 14 id. 267; 4 Watts, 317; 7 Casey, 263; 4 Barr, 353;
3 P. F. Smith, 207; 15 id. 269; 2 id. 484.
31r. Assistant Attorney- General -EdwinB. Smith, contra.
The offer of a reward, general or special, is a promise conditional upon the rendition of the proposed service before the offer
is revoked. Such an offer is revocable at any time before performance; and it is only by performance that it becomes a
binding contract. Freeman v. Boston, 5 Met. 57; Loring v.
Boston, 7 id. 409; Cummings v. Gann, 52 Penn. St. 590; Byer
v. Stockwell, 14 Cal. 137; Gilmore v. Lewis, 12 Ohio, 285;
Crocker v. N. L. B.R. Co., 24 Conn. 261; Janorin v. Exeter,
48 N. H. 83; Jones v. Phenix Bank, 4 Seld. 228; Fitch v.
Snedaker, 38 N.Y. 248.
This offer was revoked Nov. 24, 1865. Ste. Marie had
rendered no service to the United States: he, at least, had
performed no condition of that promise before that date. The
revocation was as public, and certainly as authentic, as the
original promulgation of the proclamation.
According to the terms of the original offer, Ste. Marie never
did that which would have entitled him to $25,000, or any
thing more than a "liberal reward," had there been no revocation. The terms of such an offer are rightly prescribed by
the person offering it, and must be strictly complied with by
him who claims the reward. Jones v. Phenix Bank, 4 Seld.
228; Pitch v. Snedaker, 38 N. Y. 248; Clinton v. Yfiung,
11 Rich. (S. C.) 546.
His receipt of the 810,000 was in full of all equitable
claim: legally, he had none. _4Karvin v. Treat, 37 Conn. 96;
Sholes v. State, 2 Chand. (Wis.) 182; Calkins v. State, 13
Wis. 389.

SHUEY, EXECUTOR, V. UNITED STAT ES.

[sup. Ct.

MR. JuSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the coiu't.
*We agree with the Court of Claims, that the service rendered
by the plaintiff's testator was, not the apprehension of John H.
Surratt, for which the War Department had offered a reward
of $25,000, but giving information that conduced to the arrest.
These are quite distinct things, though one may have been a
consequence of the other. The proclamation of the SecretarT
of War treated them as different; and, while a reward of
$25,000 was offered for the apprehension, the offer for information was only a "liberal reward." The findings of the Court
of Claims also exhibit a clear distinction between making the
arrest and giving the information that led to it. It is found
as a fact, that the arrest was not made by the claimant, though
the discovery and arrest were due entirely to the disclosures
made by him. The plain meaning of this is, that Surratt's
apprehension was a consequence of the disclosures made. But
the consequence of a man's act are not his acts. Between the
consequence and the disclosure that leads to it there may be,
and in this case there were, intermediate agencies. Other
pergons than the clainiant made the arrest, - persons who were
not his agents, and who themselves were entitled to the proffered reward for his arrest, if any persons were. We think,
therefore, that at most the claimant was entitled to the "liberal
reward" promised for information conducing to the arrest; and
that reward he has received.
But, if this were not so, the judgment given by the Court of
Claims is correct.
The offer of a reward for the apprehension of Surratt was
revoked on the twenty-fourth day of November, 1865; and
notice of the revocation was published. It is not to be doubted
that the offer was revocable at any time before it was accepted,
and before any thing had been done in reliance upon it. There
was no contract until its terms were complied with. Like any
other offer of a contract, it might, therefore, be withdrawn
before rights had accrued under it; and it was withdrawn
through the same channel in which it was made. The same
niotoriety was given to the revocation that was given to the
offer; and the findings of fact do not show that any information was given by the claimant, or that he did any thing to

Oct. 1875.]

UNITED STATES v.

LANDERS.

entitle him to the reward offered, until five months after the
offer had been withdrawn. True, it is found that then, and at
all times until the arrest was actually made, he was ignorant of
the withdrawal; but that is an immaterial fact. The offer of
the reward not having been made to him directly, but by means
of a published proclamation, he should have known that it could
be revoked in the manner in which it was made.
Judgment affirmed.

UMITED STATES v. LA.NDERS.

1. An honorable discharge of a soldier from service does not restore to him pay
and allowances forfeited for desertion.
2. Under the term "allowances," bounty is included.

Court of Claims.
Landers enlisted for three years; was enrolled Jan. 1, 1864;
and mustered into service Jan. 16, 1864, to take effect from
the date of his enrolment. He deserted Nov. 12, 1864; was
arrested June 2, 1865; restored to duty, with the loss of all
pay and allowances due or to become due during the term of
his enlistment; and honorably discharged on the 8th of August, 1865. The Court of Claims rendered judgment in his
favor for an amount equal to his pay and bounty. The United
States appealed.
Mr. Assistant Attorneyr-General -Edwin B. Smith for the
United States.
The Court of Claims erroneously assumes that this court held
in United States v. Kelly, 15 Wall. 34, that the offence of desertion was purged by an honorable discharge. Such is not the
case. Power to try the soldier, or, further, to punish him for
the desertion, is lost by his restoration to duty. Thenceforth
there is nothing to be purged. As part and condition of that
restoration "by competent authority," forfeiture may, however, be decreed of his pay and allowances. Army Reg. 159,
160; R. S. 4749; Judge Ad.-Gen. Holt's Op., p. 139, sects. 7, 9;
p. 136, sect. 1.
If the restoration be, in effect, a pardon (as treated by the
Court of Claims), then it can only be authorized by the PresiAPPEAL from the

