Oct. 1875.]

OAKSITH'S LESSEE V. JOHNSTON.

OAS=TH'S LESSEE V. JOHNSTON.
1. In this country there can seldom be occasion to invoke the presumption of
a grant from the government, except in cases of very ancient possessions
running back to colonial days, as, since the commencement of the present
century, a record has been preserved of all such grants, and of the various
preliminary steps up to their issue; and provision is made by law for the
introduction of copies of the record when the originals are lost.
2. In ejectment for a lot in Washington City, both parties admitted that the
original title was in the United States. The plaintiff relied principally
upon evidence of title arising from uninterrupted and exclusive possession
by his lessor, and the parties through whom he claims from 1828 to 1867.
During the latter year the defendant entered. He traced title through a
conveyance of the mayor of Washington, executed in October, 1866, in
completion of a sale made under the act of Congress of May 7, 1822
(3 Stat. 691), and an ordinance of the city of the same year, creating a
board of commissioners to carry the act into effect, and direct the sales of
lots. The act required the deeds executed to the purchasers by the mayor
to be recorded among the land-records of the county of Washington within
the time prescribed for the recording of conveyances of real estate. The
ordinance provided that the board should keep regular minutes of their acts
and proceedings, and lay the same before the board of aldermen and common council at the commencement of every session of the council. The
records and minutes were not produced, nor proof of their contents offered
by the plaintiff. Held, that no presumption can legitimately arise that any
other deed of the demanded premises was executed bythe mayor than the
one put in evidence, and that the possession created no title upon which the
plaintiff can recover.

ERRon to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.

Mlr. Edward Lander and. Hr. William A. feloy for plaintiff
in error.
31r. A. G. Biddle, contra.
FmD delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action of ejeetment to recover a parcel of land
situated in the city of Washington, consisting of the south half
oi lot fourteen in reservation B, and a portion of the adjoining
lot thirteen. For this latter portion the plaintiff obtained
judgment; and no question with respect to it is here raised.
The only contention in this court relates to the other portion
of the demanded premises, -the south half of lot fourteen.
To recover this portion, the plaintiff relied principally upon
evidence of title arising from the possession of the premises by
MR. JusTICE

OAKS3ITH's LESSEE V. JOHNSTON.

[Sul). Ct.

the lessor of the plaintiff, and parties through whom he claims,
for a period of nearly forty years. It was shown, that, as early
as 1828, one Thomas Hughes occupied and used the premises,
and that he continued from that time to occupy and use them
exclusively, either in person or by tenants, until his death
in 1837; that by his will he devised his interest and estate in
them to his daughter Anna, who, upon his death, continued in
like manner in their occupation and use until the entry of the
defendant in 1867, having erected in the mean time a brick
building thereon. The lessor of the plaintiff, Oaksmith, is the
trustee of Anna's estate.
The defendant traced title to the premises from the United
States through a conveyance of the mayor of Washington,
executed in October, 1866, in completion of a sale made by
commissioners under the act of Congress of May 7, 1822,.
3 Stat. 691, and an ordinance of the city of the same year
passed to carry that act into effect. It is conceded, that, previous to the sale, the title was in the United States.
It appeared in evidence that the sale was made in September,
1822, to one Henry Weightman, to whom a bond was given for
a conveyance upon payment of the purchase-money; that in
June, 1830, the purchase-money was paid, and that, in 1832 or
1833, the purchaser permitted Hughes to occupy the premises
as his tenant; that in 1853 the purchaser died, leaving Roger
Weightman his only surviving heir; and that to him the
mayor of the city, in October, 1866, executed the conveyance,
and that during the same year he conveyed to the defendant.
It also appeared in evidence that the purchase of the premises
by Henry Weightman in 1822 was made in trust for Roger
Weightman, who, as early as 1830, became the assignee of the
bond, and paid the purchase-money; and that the conveyance
of the mayor to him, in October, 1866, was obtained upon a
representation that the bond had been lost; that Roger Weightman had also purchased the adjoining lot thirteen, and in June,
1830, had received a conveyance of the same from the mayor
of Washington, and in March, 1837, had conveyed to Hughes
that portion of the lot which the plaintiff recovered in this
action.
Upon this evidence, assuming it to have established all that

Oct. 1875.]

OAKSMITH'S LESSEE V. JOHNSTON.

it tended to prove, the plaintiff asked of the court several
instructions to the jury, amounting, when divested of some
repetitions, substantially to these:1st, That the jury might presume that Roger Weightman
assigned the bond for a conveyance to Thomas Hughes during
his life; and that the mayor of the city executed a conveyance
of the premises either to Hughes, or, after his death, to his
devisee and daughter; and,
2d, That the exclusive and uninterrupted possession of the
premises by the devisee of Hughes for more than twenty years
prior to the entry of the defendant created a title upon which
the plaintiff could recover.
The court refused the instructions; and, for their refusal,
error is alleged.
The objection to the first of these instructions arises from
that part which relates to the presumption of a conveyance
from the mayor of the city. The title of the property, as
already stated, was originally in the United States, and the
mayor acted only as their agent in transferring it to the purchaser. It was, therefore, a grant from the government which
the court was requested to instruct the jury to presume.
It is undoubtedly true, as stated by counsel, that, under some
circumstances, grants may be presumed from the government,
as well as from individuals, in support of a long-continued possession. The presumption in such cases arises not merely from
the possibilities of the loss of documents by the common accidents of time, but from the general experience of men that
property is not usually suffered to remain for long periods in
the quiet possession of any one but the true owner, and that
no other person will deliberately add to the value of the property by permanent improvements.
But in this country, at the present day, there can seldom be
occasion to invoke the presumption of a grant from the government, except in cases of very ancient possessions running back
to colonial days, as, since the commencement of the present
century, a record has been preserved of all grants of the government, and of the various preliminary steps up to their issue;
and provision is made by law for the introduction of copies of
the record when the originals are lost.

OAKsisNTH's LESSEE v.

JOHNSTON.

Lsup. Ot.

The act of Congress of May 7, 1822, which authorized the
sale of the public reservations, embracing the property in controversy, required the deeds executed to the purchasers by the
mayor of the city to be recorded among the land-records of
the county of Washington within the time prescribed for the
recording of conveyances of real estate; and the ordinance
of the city creating a board of commissioners to carry the act
of Congress into effect, and direct the sales of the property,
pr3yided that the board should keep regular minutes of its acts
and proceedings, and lay the same before the board of aldermen and common council at the commencement of every session of the council. If any deed was made by the mayor of the
city to Hughes or to his devisee, as the court was requested to
instruct the jury to presume, the records of the county and the
minutes of the commissioners would no doubt have shown the
fact. But these records and minutes were not produced; and
no evidence was offered that they made mention of any deed
of the premises, either to Hughes or to his devisee. The
absence of any evidence on this point was of itself a circumstance sufficient to justify the conclusion that the records and
minutes disclosed nothing impairing, or tending to impair, the
validity of the conveyance through which the defendant claims.
In the absence of such evidence, no presumption could legitimately arise that any other deed was executed by the mayor
than the one produced. The court, therefore, properly refused
the instruction asked.
The long uninterrupted possession of the premises by the
devisee, and the valuable improvements made by her, might
have justified the presumption of a transfer of the bond from
Roger Weightman. But such transfer, if established, would
not have availed the plaintiff: it would only have disclosed the
possession of an equitable right to a conveyance, which a court
of chancery might enforce by compelling a transfer of the legal
title from the defendant, if he purchased with notice of the
plaintiff's equity, or by decreeing compensation from Roger
Weightman, if he conveyed the title to a bona fide purchaser
without notice. But in the action of ejectment, in the Federal
courts, the legal title must control, and to another forum the
plaintiff must look for the enforcement of any equitable rights
he may possess.

Oct. 1875.]

RECKENDORFER

v.

FABER.

The legal title being in the United States, the Statute of
Limitations raises no bar to the action. Mere possession of
the land, though open, exclusive, and uninterrupted for twenty
years, creates no impediment to a recovery by the government,
and of course none to a recovery by one who within that period
receives its conveyance. In Burgess v. Gray, 16 How. 48, the
plaintiff and those through whom he claimed had been in possession of the land, for which the action was brought, for more
than half a century ; and, among other grounds, he relied upon
this long-continued possession to recover against defendants,
who had entered under title derived from the United States.
But the court said, "The mere possession of public land without title will not enable the party to maintain a suit against
any one who enters on it; and, more especially, he cannot
maintain it against persons holding possession under title
derived from the proper officers of the government. He must
first show a right in himself before he can call into question
the validity of theirs." The second instruction was, therefore,
properly refused.
Judgment affirmed.

RECKENDORFER V. FA3BER.
1. The decision of the Commissioner of Patents in the allowance and issue of a
patent creates a primafacie right only; and, upon all the questions involved
therein, the validity of the patent is subject to examination by the courts.
2. A combination, to be patentable, must produce a different force, effect, or
result in the combined forces or processes from that given by their separate
parts. There must be a new result producedby their union; otherwise it is
only an aggregation of separate elements.
S. A combination, therefore, which consists only of the application of a piece of
rubber to one end of the same piece of wood which makes a lead-pencil is
not patentable.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
31r. Charles .F. Blake and Mr. Edmund Wetmore for the
appellant.
Mr. John S. Washburm and Hr. George G-ifford for the am.
pellee.

