WALLACH ET AL. V. VAN RIISWICK.

[Sup. Ot.

ing general did not order it to be turned over to him until the
9th of August, and it was not received by him until the 15th
of the month. In receiving it then, he violated, in my judgment, the positive instructions of the department. After the
30th of June, 1865, the duty of receiving captured or abandoned property, not embraced within the exceptions stated,
was devolved, by express direction of the Secretary of the
Treasury, upon the usual and regular officers of the customs
at the several places where they were located.
It is certainly desirable that full protection should be extenled to the agents and officers of the Treasury Department,
whilst engaged in executing during the war the commands of
their superiors within the insurrectionary districts; but it is
equally important that protection should not be extended to
acts which were not only not authorized, but were expressly
forbidden.
It seems to me that the ruling of the majority of the court
has carried the principle of protection in this case beyond all
former precedents; and that the reasoning of the opinion, in
its logical consequences, will justify in many instances the
most wanton interference with the private property of citizens.

WAJLAcH ET AL. v. VAx RiSwicK,
1. The act of July 17,1862 (12 Stat. 589), is an act for the confiscation of enemies'
property, and it provides for the seizure and condemnation of all their estate.
When it has been carried into effect by appropriate proceedings in any
given case, the offender has no longer any interest or ownership in the
thing forfeited which he can convey, or any power over it which he can
exercise in favor of another.
2 The joint resolution of even date with that act was designed only to qualify,
and not defeat it. The provision therein, that "no proceedings shall work
a forfeiture beyond the life of the offender," obviously means that they
shall not affect the ownership of the land after the termination of his natural life; and that, after his death, it shall pass and be owned as if it had
not been forfeited. It was intended for the exclusive benefit of his heirs,
and to enable them to take the inheritance after his death.
S. The maxim, that a fee cannot be in abeyance, is not of universal application;

Oct. 1875.]

WALLACH ET AL. V. VAN RISWICK.

nor has it any weight in an inquiry as to the intent and effect of said act
and joint resolution.
4. The amnesty proclamation of the President of the United States of Dec. 25,
1868, die not give back property which had been sold under the Confiscation
Act, or any interest in it, either in possession or expectancy.
5. Day v. Mcou, 18 Wall. 156, and Bigelow v. Forrest, 9 id. 339, cited and explained
A PEA.L from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The complainants are children and heirs-at-law of Charles
S. Wallach, who was an officer in the Confederate army during
the late rebellion. While he was thus in that service, his
real estate situate in the city of Washington was, by order of
the President, seized under the Confiscation Act of July 17,
1862, and a libel for its condemnation duly filed. The lot of
ground, respecting which the present controversy exists, was
condemned as forfeited to the United States on the twenty-ninth
day of July, 1863; and, on the ninth day of September next following, it was sold under a writ of venditioni exponas, the defendant Van Riswick becoming the purchaser. Prior to the seizure,
the lot had been conveyed by Charles S. Wallach in trust to secure the payment of a promissory note for 85,000 which he had
borrowed; and, at the time of the seizure, a portion of this debt
remained unpaid and due to the defendant, to whom the note
and the security of the deed of trust had been assigned. Wallach's interest in the property was, therefore, an equity of redemption ; and, by the confiscation sale, the purchaser acquil ed
that interest, and held it with the security of the deed of trust
given to protect the payment of the promissory note. On the
3d of February, 1866, Wallach, having returned to Washington,'
made a deed purporting to convey the lot in fee-simple with
covenants of general warranty to Van Riswick, the purchaser
at the confiscation sale. His wife joined with him in the deed.
So the case stood until Feb. 8, 1872, when Wallach died.
The complainants then filed this bill, claiming, that after the
seizure, condemnation, and sale of the land, as the property of
a pubalic enemy engaged in the war of the rebellion, nothing
remained in him that could be the subject of sale or conveyance; consequently, that nothing passed by the deed from Wallach and wife; and that they, being his heirs, had, upon his

204

WALLACH ET AL. v. VAN

RIswiCK.

[Sup. Ct.

death, an estate in the land, and a right to redeem, and to have
the conveyance of their father to Van Riswick declared to be
no bar to their redemption. The relief sought is redemption
of the deed of trust, discovery (particularly of the amount remaining due upon Charles S. Wallach's note), an account of
the rents and profits of the land since the death of Wallach, a
t decree that his deed of 'Feb. 3, 1867, is of no effect as against
the plaintiffs, a decree for delivery of possession of the lot, and
general relief.
To this bill the defendant Van Riswick demurred generally;
and the court below sustained the demurrer, and dismissed the
bill. Hence this appeal.
Mr. Albert Pike and 211r. L. H. Pike for the appellants.
Wallach's conveyance passed nothing. By the seizure and
oondemnation, all his estate vested in the United States.
The forfeiture is the same as that incurred by the tenant in
the olden time who had violated his obligation of homage and
fealty. If, at his death, his heirs were permitted to take, it
was not because of any right in them, but out of grace and
favor.
The whole estate of the offender vested in the crown in case
of forfeiture. Brown v. Waite, 2 Mod. 180.
Congress, by the act of July 17, 1862, intended to take the
whole estate, but, exercising by the joint resolution the discretion and grace which in England belonged to the king, caused
it, at the offender's death, to pass to his heirs.
The act re-enacted the old English law in all its rigor. The
joint resolution did not propose to do more than apply the constitutional saving. By virtue of it, the heirs, at the death of
the ancestor, take the whole fee from the United States as by
grant, and yet also as heirs by descent, the statute making to
that end a new rule of law.
The declared purpose to "punish treason," and to "confiscate the property of rebels," would be defeated if the fee of
the confiscated land were subject to the disposal of its rebel
owner. It was seized as enemy property, because that enemy
was a rebel. But, inasmuch as he was a citizen of the United
States, President Lincoln was right in maintaining that the
Constitution forbade a perpetual forfeiture of the property.

Oct. 1875.]

WALLACH ET AL. V. V'AN RISWICK.

The words, "d ur ing the life of the person attainted," where they
occur, so far from confining the forfeiture to his life-estate,
leaving in him the fee, unquestionably mean, that whilst all
his interest in, or alienating power over, the land, shall, during
his life, be absolutely forfeited and extinguished, his treason
shall not work the disinherison of the children.
If it were necessary to give effect to the act and joint reso-.
lution, the court would consider the forfeiture equivalent, by
virtue of the law, to a conveyance by Wallach to the United
States, to their use during his life, and to that of his heirs after
his death.
The joint resolution is virtually a covenant to stand seized to
uses.
Forfeiture is a kind of alienation. Brown v. Waite, supra.
The proceedings in question vested the whole estate and
property of Wallach, in the land, in the United States. As,
under an act of attainder, with a saving in favor of all others
than the attainted party and his heirs, "the saving removed
the fee-simple out of the person of the king, and conveyed it to
the third person whose right was saved, so that he could have
it by means of the saving, for it was in the king when the condition was performed, and it must go out of him to the person
by the condition and by the saving;" so the whole fee was
vested in the United States, and, at the death of Wallach, was
removed out of the United States by the condition and saving
in the joint resolution, and was thereby conveyed to his heirs.
Lord Lovel's Case, Plowd. 488. See, further, History and Proceedings of the House of Lords, vol. ii. p. 261; Foster's Crown t
Law, 222; Thornby v. -Fleetwood,1 Comyns, 207; Lord de Za
WTarre's Case, 11 Co. 1 b; Earl of D'erby's Case, 1 Ld. Raym.
355 ; Thornby v. Peetwood, Str. 363 ; Wfheatly v. Thomas, 1 Lev.
74; Burgess v. Trheate, Eden, 128; Sheffield v. Bateliffe, Hob.
835 b; 6 Hansard, Parl. Hist. 796; 2 Burnet, Hist. of His
Own Times, 837, 838; 3 Macaulay, Hist. of Eng. 241, 242;
.lowtee's Case, 3 Coke, 10; Page's Case, 5 id. 52; The Lord
Advocate v. Gordon, 1 Craigie, 508.
M1r. T. J 1)urant and 3Ir. T. A. Lambert for the appellee.
1. The bill is multifarious in this, that it asserts, 1st, Equity
for an account, and to redeem from the operation of the deed

WALLA0H ET AL. V. VAN RISWICK.

[Sup. Ct.

of trust of Sept. 28, 1854; 2d, Right to a rescission of the
deed or so-called mortgage of Feb. 3, 1866, and to an avoidance
bf the sale of Aug. 28, 1867; and, 3d, Claim for the possession of the land, by virtue of an alleged settlement created by
the act of July 17, 1862, in favor of the complainants, as the
right heirs of Charles S. Wallach. Story, Eq. P1., sects. 476,
'530; Loker v. Bolle, 3 Ves. 4, 843.
2. This court has expressly declared, in passing upon the act
and joint resolution which govern this case, that all "which
could become the property of the United States was a right to
the property seized, terminating with the life of the person for
whose act it had been seized." Bigelow v. Porrest,9 Wall.
839; cited and confirmed in -Day v. Miou, 18 id. 156. The
proceedings in confiscation, therefore, carved a life-estate out
of the fee, leaving the latter vested.where it had abided before
they were instituted. No disability was, or could constitutionally be, imposed upon Wallach, incapacitating him from conveying the fee subject to his forfeited life-estate.
3. Under the decisions of this court, the fee did not for any
purpose vest in the United States. It must remain somewhere.
The doctrine of a fee in abeyance, or in gremio legis, or in
nubibus, is not now the law of real property. Fearne on Cont.
Rem., 351, 361; Wins. on Real Prop., 256; 1 Brown & Hudley's Com., 547. If, however, Wallach had, after the proceedings in question, no seisin of the inheritance, the heirs cannot
take by descent.
4. Under the amnesty proclamation of Dec. 25, 1868, Wallach was completely restored to the enjoyment of his rights of
property and person, however they may have been suspended
by the rebellion, except in those cases where his property had
by judicial proceedings vested in other persons. Brown v.
United States, 2 Kan. 280. Whether he be regarded, therefore, as never having lost his entire estate in his landed property, or as having been restored to its possession by virtue of
amnesty, his deed to Van Riswick was sufficient to convey the
title in fee to the lot in controversy. Its covenants of warranty, general and special, are binding upon his heirs. If
executed before the restoration of his title, the latter are
estopped, equally as he would have been in his lifetime, from

Oct. 1875.]

WALLACH ET AL. v. VAN

RIsWICK.

questioning its operative force and effect. This familiar prine Wcilliams v. Nesley,
ciple received forcible exposition in
2 S. & R. 507, 518.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.

The formal objections to the bill deserve but a passing notice.
It is not, we think, multifarious; and all persons are made parties to it who can be concluded or affected by any decree that
may be made, - all persons who have an interest in the subjectmatter of the controversy. The main question raised by the
demurrer, and that which has been principally argued, is,
whether, after an adjudicated forfeiture and sale of an enemy's
land under the Confiscation Act of Congress of July 17, 1862,
and the joint resolution of even date therewith, there is left in
him any interest which he can convey by deed.
The act of July 17, 1862, is an act for the confiscation of
enemies' property. Its purpose, as well as its justification, was
to strengathen the government, and to enfeeble the public enemy
by taking from the adherents of that enemy the power to
use their property in aid of the hostile cause. Miller v. United
States, 11 Wall. 268. With such a .purpose, it is incredible
that Congress, while providing for the confiscation of an enemy's land, intended to leave in that enemy a vested interest
therein, which he might sell, and with the proceeds of which
he might aid in carrying on the war against the government.
The contrary is
The statute indicates no such intention.
plainly manifested. The fifth section enacted that it should be
the duty of the President of the United States to cause the
seizure of "all the estate and property, money, stocks, credits,
and effects," of the persons thereinafter described (of whom
Charles S. Wallach was one), and to ap'ply the same and the
proceeds thereof to the support of the army of the United
States; and it declared that all sales, transfers, and conveyances
of any such property should be null and void. The description of property thus made liable to seizure is as broad as possible. It covers the estate of the owner, - all his estate or
ownership. No authority is given to seize less than the whole.
The seventh section of the act enacted, that to secure the condemnation and sale of any such property (viz., the property

208

WALLACH ET AL. V. VAN

RiswICK.

[Sup. Ct.

seized), so that it might be made available for the purpose
aforesaid, proceedings should be instituted in a court of the
United States; and if said property should be found to have
belonged to a person engaged in the rebellion, or who had
given aid or comfort thereto, the same should be condemned as
enemies' property, and become the property of the United
States, and might be disposed of as the court should decree, the
proceeds thereof to be paid into the treasury of the United
States for the purpose aforesaid. Nothing can be plainer than
that the condemnation and sale of the identical property seized
were intended by Congress; and it was expressly declared that
the seizure ordered should be of all the estate and property of
the persons designated in the act. If, therefore, the question
before us were to be answered in view of the proper construction of the act of July 17, 1862, alone, there could be no doubt
that the seizure, condemnation, and sale of Charles S. Wallach's
estate in the lot in controversy left in him no estate or interest of any description -which he could convey by deed, and no
power which he could exercise in favor of another. This we
understand to be substantially conceded on behalf of the
defendant.
But the act of 1862 is not to be construed exclusively by
itself. Contemporaneously with its approval, a joint resolution
was passed by Congress, and approved, explanatory of some of
its provisions, and declaring that "no proceedings under said
act shall be so construed as to work a forfeiture of the real
estate of the offender beyond his natural life." The act and
the joint resolution axe doubtless to be construed as one act,
precisely as if the latter had been introduced into the former
as a proviso. The reasons that induced the passage of the
resolution are well known. It was doubted by some, even in
high places, whether Congress had power to enact that any forfeiture of the land of a rebel should extend or operate beyond
his life. The doubt was founded on the provision of the
Constitution, in sect. 3, art. 3, that "no attainder of treason
shall work corruption of blood or forfeiture except during the
life of the person attainted." It was not doubted that Congress might provide for forfeitures effective during the life of
an offender. The doubt related to the possible duration of

0(t. 1875.]

WALLACH ET AL. V. VAN RISWICK.

a forfeiture, not to the thing forfeited, or to the extent and
efficacy of the forfeiture while it continued. It was to meet the
doubt which did exist that the resolution was adopted. What,
then, is its effect? and what was intended by it? Plainly it
should be so construed as to leave it in accord with the general
and leading purpose of the act of which it is substantially a
part; for its object was, not to defeat, but to qualify. That purpose, as we have said, was to take away from an adherent of a
public enemy his property, and thus deprive him of the means
by which he could aid that enemy. But that purpose was
thwarted, partially at least, by the resolution, if it meant to
leave a portion, and often much the larger portion, of the estate
still vested in the enemy's adherent. If, notwithstanding an
adjudicated forfeiture of his land and a sale thereof, he was
still seized of an estate expectant on the determination of a lifeestate which he could sell and convey, his power to aid the
public enemy thereby remained. It cannot be said that such
was the intention of Congress. The residue, if there was any,
was equally subject to seizure, condemnation, and sale with the
particular estate that preceded it. It is to be observed, that
the joint resolution made no attempt to divide the estate confiscated into one for life, and another in fee. It did not say that
the forfeiture shall be of a life-estate only, or of the possession
and enjoyment of the property for life. Its language is, "No
proceedings shall work a forfeiture beyond the life of the
offender;" not beyond the life estate of the offender. The
obvious meaning is, that the proceedings for condemnation
and sale shall not affect the ownership of the property
after the termination of the offender's natural life. After his
death, the land shall pass or be owned as if it had not been
forfeited. Nothing warrants the belief that it was intended,
that, while the forfeiture lasts, it should not be complete; viz.,
a devolution upon the United States of the offender's entire
right. The words of the resolution are not exactly those of
the constitutional ordinance; but both have the same meaning, and both seek to limit the extent of forfeitures. In adopting the resolution, Congress manifestly had the constitutional
ordinance in view; and there is no reason why one should
receive a construction different from that given to the othervoL. 11.

14

WALLACH ET AL. V. VAN RISWICK.

[Sill. Ct.

What was intended by the constitutional provision is free from
doubt. In England, attainders of treason worked corruption
of blood and perpetual forfeiture of the estate of the person
attainted, to the disinherison of his heirs, or of those who
would otherwise be his heirs. Thus innocent children were
made to suffer because of the offence of their ancestor. When
the Federal Constitution -wasframed, this was felt to be a great
hardship, and even rank injustice. For this reason, it was
ordained that no attainder of treason should work corruption
of blood or forfeiture, except during the life of the person attainted. No one ever doubted that it was a provision introduced
for the benefit of the children and heirs alone; a declaration
that the children should not bear the iniquity of the fathers.
Its purpose has never been thought to be a benefit to the traitor, by leaving in him a vested interest in the subject of forfeiture.
There have been some acts of Parliament, providing for limited forfeitures, closely resembling those described in the act
of Congress as modified by the joint resolution. The statute
of 5th Elizabeth, c. 11, "against the clipping, washing, rounding, and filing of coins," declared those offences to be treason,
and enacted that the offender or offenders should suffer death,
and lose and forfeit all his or their goods and chattels, and also
"lose and forfeit all his and their lands and tenements during
his or their natural life or lives only." The statute of 18th
Elizabeth, c. 1, enacted the same provision "against diminishing and impairing of the queen's majesty's coin and other coins
current within the realm," and declared that the offender or
offenders should "lose and forfeit to the queen's highness, her
heirs and successors, all their lands, tenements, and hereditaments during his or their natural life or lives only." Each of
these statutes provided that no attainder under it should work
corruption of blood, or deprive the wife of an offender of her
dower. The statute of 7 Anne, c. 21, is similar. They all
provide for a limited forfeiture, - limited in duration, not in
quantity. Certainly no case has been found, none, we think,
has ever existed, in which it has been held that either statute
intended to leave in the offender an ulterior estate in fee after
forfeited life-estate, or any interest whatever subject to his

Oct. 1875.]

WALLACH ET AL. V. VAN RiswicK.

disposing power. Indeed, forfeiture has frequently been spoken
of in the English courts as equivalent to conveyance. It was
in Lord Lovel's Case, Plowd. 488, where it was said by Harper, Justice, " The act (of attainder) is no more than an instrument of conveyance, when by it the possessions of one man
are transferred over to another." And again: "The act conveys it (the land forfeited) to the king, removes the estate out
of Lovel, and vests it entirely in the king." In Burgess v.
Wheate, 1 Eden, 201, in discussing the subject of forfeiture, the
Master of the Rolls said, "The forfeiture operated like a grant
to the king. The crown takes an estate by forfeiture, subject
to the engagements and incumbrances of the person forfeiting.
The crown holds in this case as a royal trustee (for a forfeiture itself is sometimes called a royal escheat). . . .If a
forfeiture is regranted by the king, the grantee is a tenant in
,,pite, and all mesne tenure is extinct." See also Brown v.
lVaite, 2 Mod. 133. If a forfeiture is equivalent to a grant or
conveyance to the government, how can any thing remain in the
person whose estate has been forfeited which he can convey to
another? No conceivable reason exists why the construction
applied to the English statutes referred to should not be applied
to our act of 1862 and the joint resolution. If, in the British
statutes, the sole object of the limitation of the duration of
forfeiture was a benefit to the heirs of the offender, it is the
same in our statutes; and it is a perversion of the intent and
meaning of the joint resolution to read it as preserving rights
and interests in those who under the act had forfeited all their
estate. What was seized, condemned as forfeited, and sold, in
the proceedings against Charles S. Wallach's estate, was not,
therefore, technically a life-estate. It is true, that in Bigelow
v. Forrest, 9 Wall. 339, and Day v. ificou, 18 id. 156, some expressions were used indicating an opinion that what was sold
under the confiscation acts was a life-estate carved out of a fee.
The language was, perhaps, incautiously used. We certainly
did not intend to hold that there was any thing left in the person
whose estate had been confiscated. The question was not before us. We were not called upon to decide any thing respect
ing the quantity of the estate carved out; and what we said
upon the subiect had reference solely to its duration.

WALLACH ET AL.

V.

VAN

RIswIcK.

[Sup. Ct.

It is argued on behalf of the defendant, that because under
a confiscation sale of land, or of estate therein, the purchaser
takes an interest terminable with the life of the person whose
property has been confiscated, the fee must be somewhero; for it
is said that a fee can never be in abeyance; and as the fee cannot
be in the United States, they having sold all that was seized,
nor in the purchaser, whose interest ceases with the life, it must
remain in the person whose estate has been seized. The argument is more plausible than sound. It is a maxim of the
common law, that a fee cannot be in abeyance. It rests upon
reasons that now have no existence, and it is not now of universal application. But if it were, being a common-law maxim,
it must yield to statutory provisions inconsistent with it; and it
is, therefore, of no weight in the inquiry what was intended by
the Confiscation Act and concurrent resolution. Undoubtedly
there are some anomalies growing out of the congressional legislation, as there were growing out of the statutes of 5th and
18th Elizabeth; but it is the duty of the court to carry into
effect what Congress intended, though it must be by denying
the applicability of some common-law maxims, the reasons of
which have long since disappeared. It has not been found
necessary in, England to hold that a reversion remained in
a traitor after his attaint, though the statutes declared that the
forfeiture shall be during his natural life only.
We are not, therefore, called upon to determine where the
fee dwells during the continuance of the interest of a purchaser
at a confiscation sale, whether in the United States or in the
purchaser, subject to be defeated by the death of the offender
whose estate has been confiscated. That it cannot dwell in the
offender, we have seen, is evident; for, if it does, the plain purpose of the Confiscation Act is defeated, and the estate confiscated is subject alike in the hands of the United States and of
the purchaser to a paramount right remaining in the offender.
If he is a tenant of the reversion, or of a remainder, he may
control the use of the particular estate; at least, so far as to
prevent waste. That Congress intended such a possibility is
incredible.
If it be contended that the heirs of Charles S. Wallach cannot take by descent unless their father, at his death, was seized of

Oct. 1875.]

WALLACH ET AL. V. VAN RISWICK.

an estate of inheritance, - e.g., reversion, or a remainder, - it
may be answered, that, even at common law, it was not always
necessary that the ancestor should be seized to enable the heir
to take by descent. Shelley's case is, that, where the ancestor
mright have taken and been seized, the heir shall inherit.
Fottescue, J., in Thornby v. Pleetwood, I Str. 318.
If it were true, that, at common law, the heirs could not
take in any case where their ancestor was not seized at his
death, the present case must be determined by the statute.
Charles S. Wallach was seized of the entire fee of the land
before its confiscation, and the act of Congress interposed to
take from him that seisin for a limited time. That it was
competent to do, attaching the limitation for the benefit of the
heirs. It wrought no corruption of blood. In Lord de la
Warre's Case, 11 Coke, 1 a, it was resolved by the justices
"that there was a difference betwixt disability personal and
temporary and a disability absolute and perpetual; as, where
one is attainted of treason or felony, that is an absolute and
perpetual disability, by corruption of blood, for any of his posterity to claim any'inheritance in fee-simple, either as heir to
him, or to any ancestor above him: but, when one is disabled
by Parliament (without any attainder) to claim the dignity for
his life, it is a personal disability for his life only, and his heir
after his death may claim as heir to him, or to any ancestor
above him." There is a close analogy between that case and
the present. See also Wheatley] v. Thomas, Lev. 74.
Without pursuing this discussion farther, we repeat, that to
hold that any estate or interest remained in Charles S. Wallach
after the confiscation and sale of the land in controversy would
defeat the avowed purpose of the Confiscation Act, and the
only justification for its enactment; and to hold that the joint
resolution was not intended for the benefit of his heirs exclusively, to enable them to take the inheritance after his death,
would give preference to the guilty over the innocent. We
cannot so hold. In our judgment, such a holding would be an
entire perversion of the meaning of Congress.
It has been argued that the proclamations of amnesty after
the close of the war restored to Charles S. Wallach his rights
of property. The argument requires but a word in answer.

UNITED STATES V. REESE ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

Conceding that amnesty did restore what the United States
held when the proclamation was issued, it could not restore
what the United States had ceased to hold. It could not give
back the property which had been sold, or any interest in it,
either in possession or expectancy. Semmes v. United States,
91 U. S. 21. Besides, the proclamation of amnesty was iiot
made until Dec. 25, 1868.
Decree reversed.

CA.FFRATX V. SKIFF.
The doctrine announced in the case of Wallach et al. v. Van Riswick, supra,p. 202%
reaffirmed.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
Mr. Conway Bobinson for the appellant, and Mr. John A.
Campbell for the appellee.

iR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The court below decreed specific performance of a contract
for the purchase of real estate, which expressly stipulated that
the purchaser should not be bound to accept the sale if the
titles were not good and valid. The title offered was that of
a purchaser at a confiscation sale, to whom, after the sale,
Surget, the person as whose property the land was confiscated,
had released, without warranty. We decided, in Wallach et al.
v. Van Riswick, supra,p. 202, that such a title is not a complete
and valid one; that it is ineffective beyond the life of Surget;
and that his release did not enlarge it.
-Decreereversed.

UNITED STATES V. REESE ET AL.
1. Rights and immunities created by or dependent upon the Constitution of the
United States can be protected by Congress. The form and manner of
that protection may be such as Congress, in the legitimate exercise of its
legislative discretion, shall provide, and may be varied to meet the necess
ties of a particular right.
2. The Fifteenth Amendment to the Constitution does not confer the right
of suffrage; but it invests citizens of the United States with the right of

