MARKEY ET AL. V.

'

LANGLEY ET AL.

[Sup. Ot.

The first note was due Jan. 18, 1870, two days before the
petition in bankruptcy was filed ; and the first term of court
held at Chicago, after the note became due, was on the first
Monday of the following month. At this time the adjudication in bankruptcy was in force, and a suit against the bankrmpts forbidden.
There was parol testimony (received without objection) to
show that the debts of the petitioners were settled, and the
proceedings in bankruptcy dismissed; but there was nothing
to fix the time when the order of dismissal was made. The
burden of doing this rested on the defendants, and so the jury
were told.
As this view of the case is decisive of it, it is unnecessary to
notice the other assignments of error.
Judgment affirmed.

MAIEY ET AL.

v. LAlGLEY ET AL.

1. Where mortgaged property is sold under a power, the absence of objection
on the part of the mortgagor to the sale as made cures any defect which
exists therein, and gives it validity.
2. Where the mortgagees are expressly authorized to sell for cash or on credit,
they may do either, or combine them in the sale; nor is a sale for part in
cash and part on credit under a power requiring it to be made for cash
invalid, if the departure from the terms of the power is beneficial to the
mortgagor. It is immaterial whether such arrangement for payment is
made before or after the sale.
8. Where property, subject to mortgage and other liens, is sold by the first mort.
gagee, he becomes the trustee for the benefit of all concerned. If he regards
the interest of others as well as his own, seeks to promote the common welfare, and keeps within the scope of his authority, a court of equity will in
no wise hold him responsible for mere errors of judgment or results, however unfortunate, which he could not reasonably have anticipated.
4. Upon the sale of such property, the liens attach to the proceeds thereof in
the same manner, order, and effect as they bound the premises before the
sale, the new securities standing in substitution for the old.
APtEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of South Carolina.
The Kahnia Mills, a corporation under the laws of South
Carolina, having commenced the erection of a factory, borrowed from W. C. Langley & Co. of New York, in July, 1866,
$150,000 upon a mortgage of its entire property. The notes

Oct. 1875.]

MARKEY ET AL.

v.

LANGLEY ET AL.

given therefor were indorsed by B. F. Evans, president of the
company, and by H. Cogswell and B. Mordecai, upon whom
devolved the management of the mills, and the entire responsibility for the payment of its debts.
In October, 1866, an additional loan, secured in like mannei,
was made by Langley & Co. Both mortgages contain covenants, in case of default in the payment of either the principal
or interest of the notes, that it should not be necessary to apply
to a court for a foreclosure, but the mortgagees should have
full power and authority to put the premises into the hands of
some good broker and auctioneer, to be sold for cash or credit at
their option and direction, at public sale, to the highest bidder,
after thirty days' advertisement of the time and place of sale;
the surplus from such sale, if any there should be after deducting expenses and the amount of the notes, to be paid to the
said Kahnia Mills. To carry into effect this intent, the partners of the firm of Langley & Co. and the survivor were made
the attorneys, irrevocable, of the corporation, to convey to the
purchaser in fee-simple with such covenants of warranty as are
usually inserted in conveyances of real estate; "and, further,
to do and perform all and every other act and acts, thing and
things, which shall or may be necessary and proper for the full
and complete effecting and performing of the covenants and
agreements herein contained."
No payment having been made, Langley & Co., on the 16th
March, 1867, placed the property in the hands of Wardlaw &
Carew, brokers, of Charleston, and duly advertised the same for
sale. The terms were declared to be one-third of the purchasemoney in cash; the remainder at six, nine, and twelve months,
secured by a mortgage on the property.
The corporation seems to have been regarded as practically
insolvent by its creditors, as well as by Evans, Cogswell, and
Mordecai. The latter determined, in order to save themselves,
to purchase the property at the sale. Advised that, being officers of the corporation, it was expedient, if not essential, that
they should buy at such a sum as would, with the other assets
of the company, be sufficient to pay all its debts, they announced their determination to the creditors to do so. Among
them were Markey & Co., the contractors and builders engaged

MARKEY ET AL. V. LANGLEY ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

in erecting the factory, who had a written contract with the
corporation prior in date to its said mortgages, but which, not
having been recorded at the time they were executed, was not
a lien on the building. It was recorded a few days before the
sale, and from that date took effect as a lien for no "greater
sum than the just value which such building gave to the lands
upon which it was erected:" it "impaired no prior lien."
6 Stat. S. C. 32.
Markey & Co., being informed by the counsel of Langley
& Co. of the intention of Evans, Cogswell, and Mordecai, to
purchase, and having obtained from the latter a guaranty, that,
in case they became the purchasers, they would continue the
contract, and indemnify them from any loss from the failure of
the Kalmia Mills to pay the amount due thereon, made no
objections to the sale.
Evans, Cogswell, and Mordecai computed that $20,000, in
addition to the assets of the company not covered by Langley
& Co.'s mortgages, would suffice to pay the creditors in full,
and announced that they were prepared to bid that sum in
excess of the mortgage-debts. This intention they communicated to the creditors generally, and explained to Langley & Co.
that their purpose was to form a new company, and raise by
subscriptions to the capital stock a sufficient amount to pay off
all debts, and to put the factory into operation; that, of course,
they would be dependent upon indulgence as to payment, and
aid to enable them to carry out the intention. Langley & Co.,
without committing themselves to any definite promise of assistance, expressed a willingness to give any reasonable indulgence
as to time, provided adequate security were given. The determination to bid a sum estimated to be sufficient to pay all
the creditors, and the announcement to them, were based
upon the opinion that Langley & Co. had the authority
and power as well as the willingness to extend to them,
if they should be the purchasers and give satisfactory security, more favorable terms as to payment than those formally announced in the advertisement. The sale was made
on the 23d of April, 1867, without objection or protest, the
auctioneers announcing the terms as advertised, and adding
that they were authorized to say that "the purchasers will be

0t. 1.-,75.J

MARKEY ET AL. V. LANGLEY ET AL.

able to negotiate more favorable terms with the sellers, provided
it is to their mutual interests." Langley & Co. had the property put up at the amount of the debt due to them. Cogswell,
the only bidder, bid $20,000 over and above that amount, and
became the purchaser "for and on behalf of himself, Evans,
Mordecai, and such other persons as should contribute to the
purchase-money, and come in and unite with them in the format ion of a new company for the purpose of carrying out the
contemplated enterprise."
The result of the sale being announced to Langley & Co., a
personal negotiation was entered into between that firm and
Cogswell, Evans, and Mordecai. The latter represented that
they were unable to comply with the requirement as to the
cash payment of $71,445.69, and asked for one year's indulgence, claiming that the expectation of receiving it had induced
them to bid in the property. Langley & Co. reiterated their
willingness to give it, provided their rights and interests were
preserved and protected by additional adequate security.
This negotiation resulted in a written contract between the
parties, in which were recited the sale, and the inability of the
purchasers to comply with its terms; and it was agreed that
Langley & Co. would "accept in payment of the debt due to
them this day by the Kahnia Mills under the said mortgagesthe following notes of the said Cogswell, Evans, and Mordecai,
under seal - one note (for the principal of the said debt) for
,$180,000, payable on 12th January, 1868, with interest, from
date; and three other notes (for the interest), each for $4,779.02,
payable at five, six, and seven months, with interest from date:
and upon execution and delivery of the said notes, and also of
another note for the sum of
dollars, -which,
being
for an amount over and above the debt of the Kalmia Mills to
Langley & Co., is to be assigned by them to the Kalmia Mills,
the said Langley & Co. will, as the attorney of the Kalmia
Mills, execute a conveyance to Harvey Cogswell, in trust, first
to pay said notes for the purchase-money, and then in trust for
such uses as he and the said Evans and Mordecai shall by deed
declare; and will enter satisfaction on the two mortgages of the
Kalmia Mills, provided that the said Cogswell, Evans, and Mordecai shall within a reasonable time execute to Langley & Co.
VOL. Ir.
10

MARKEY ET AL. v. LANGLEY ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

bonds and mortgages of their individual property therein
specified, conditioned for the payment of all the notes given for
the purchase-money."
This agreement was carried out, and Langley & Co. received
the five notes stipulated to be given, -four for the amount
of the mortgage-debt; and one for $20,000, which was intended
to cover the other creditors, including Markey & Co., and
which was assigned to the Kalnia Mills, and delivered to
Evans, the president, to be held by him for the benefit of the
creditors of said company. Evans, Cogswell, and Mordecai, in
pursuance of the agreement, also executed to Langley & Co. a
bond of indemnity for $100,000 with the stipulated condition,
and mortgages of their individual property to secure it.
Notice of the willingness of Langley & Co. to modify the
terms of sale was given openly at the sale; but the modifications
above stated were made without consultation with, and, as far
as the evidence shows, without the knowledge of, the other
creditors.
The sale having been effected, Langley & Co., on the tenth
day of May, 1867, in the exercise of the powers conferred upon
them by the mortgages, executed and delivered a conveyance in
fee-simple to Harvey Cogswell of the entire property covered
by the mortgages in trust, out of and from the purchase-money,
to pay first the costs and expenses of said sale, then to pay the
several notes given for the purchase-money, and subject to the
trusts for the payment of the entire amount of the purchasemoney to and for such uses, intents, and purposes, and to and
for such person or persons, and in such shares, estates, and proportions, as the said Cogswell Evans, and Mordecai shall by
deed declare, limit, and appoint. The deed also contained a
proviso, that in case of default of payment to the said Langley
& Co. of the notes given for the purchase-money, or any or
either of them, they should sell the mortgaged property without application to any court, and pay the notes from the proceeds. This deed having been duly recorded, the purchasers
entered into possession, and carried on the work upon the factory. Markey & Co. having, on the 11th of June, 1867, entered
into an agreement with Cogswell, trustee, stipulating for the
payment of $18,000 for the work already done, and to be done,

Oct. 1875.]

MARKEY ET AL. v. LANGLEY ET AL.

by them, continued work under their contract, and received
payments from time to time therefor. The purchasers discharged several debts due to operatives and other creditors
of the Kalmia Mills, in all amounting to $16,674.21. They
credited these payments on the $20,000 note, the amount of
which had been made up by including the debts thus paid;
and iu is claimed that the payments should go to the extinguishment of the note, still leaving debts of the Kalmia Mills
unpaid, amounting to 822,433.08. Many new debts were also
contracted by Cogswell, trustee, in the course of the year
during which the effort was made to carry on the enterprise.
The purchasers failed in their attempt to form a new company;
and, none of the notes given by them having been paid, they,
in January, 1868, requested Langley & Co. to tak6 possession
of and sell the entire property conveyed by them to Cogswell,
trustee, and also the individual property mortgaged to them, to
make up any loss that they might sustain on the sale of the
mill property. Langley & Co., accordingly, under the powers
given to them, and in compliance with the prescribed terms,
advertised the mill property for sale in Charleston on the 19th
March, 1868.
Markey & Co. and other creditors of the Kalmia Mills opposed the sale, and threatened proceedings in the State court
to enjoin it. Langley & Co. thereupon filed their bill in the
Circuit Court, setting up their rights, and praying an injunction
against proceedings bn the part of the creditors to stop or
interfere with the sale. Answers were filed; and Markey &
Co. filed a cross-bill, praying that the sale be enjoined.
While the cases were under consideration, and before the
argument was concluded, the day of sale arrived; and an order
was made by consent, that the sale by Langley & Co., under
their power, should proceed, "provided that the said property
at said sale be not sold for a sum less than $160,000, and that
940,000 of the credit portion of the purchase-money be retained
to stand in place of the property, and subject to the liens and
equities of the several parties, and subject to the further order
of the court."
William C. Langley became the purchaser for $160,000; and
the sale was confirmed by the court, with the same condition

IARKEY ET AL.

v. LANGLEY ET AL.

I[qUp.

0OL,

and proviso as to the $40,000 which was made a charge upon:
the property purchased by him. Langley having sold the mill
property to the Langley Manufacturing Company, which has
since completed the factory and put it in successful operation,
an order was subsequently made by the court releasing the land
from the said charge, and substituting instead his bond with
approved sureties, conditioned for the payment of such portions of the purchase-money into court as it should order, not
exceeding the sum of $40,000.
By order of court, with the consent of all parties, Langley
& Co. proceeded to sell the individual property of Evans, Cogswell, and Mordecai, mortgaged to them to secure the bond of
indemnity, and received therefrom $52,148.
The court below decreed that the arrangement made between
the purchasers at the sale in 1867 and Langley & Co. was
within the scope of the power, authority, and duty of the latter, and binding upon all parties; that their right to priority of
payment out of the purchase-money accruing from the sale in
1868 was not waived, and that they were entitled to be paid in
full before any of the creditors, either of the Kalmia Mills or
of the purchasers in 1867, should receive any portion thereof;
that the note for $20,000 did not rank pari passu with the
notes for the rest of the purchase-money secured by the trusts
of the conveyance by Cogswell; and dismissed the cross-bill.
Markey & Co. thereupon appealed to this court.
M~r. Samuel Lord, Jr., and Mr. James Lowndes, for the
appellants.
Sufficient having been realized by the first sale of the property
to pay both the liens of the'appellees and the appellants, they
were transferred to that fund, and continued upon it in the
same order in which they subsisted on the premises previous to
the sale. This is the settled rule of equity; and the mortgagees,
having notice of the lien of the appellants, were bound to apply
the fund as would a court of equity. Olcott v. Bylnum, 17
Wall. 63.
The appellants insist that the appellees' control of the terms.
of sale ended when the property was knocked down to Cogswell, except for the purpose of executing a conveyance and
receiving the purchase-money. But this the mortgagees could

Oct. 1875.]

MA KEY ET Jr-. v. LANGLEY ET AL.

not do; for a power to sell at public auction cannot be executed
at private sale. Greenleaf v. Queen, 1 Pet. 138. Nor can
property bound by two mortgages be sold under the first, so as
to discharge the lien of the second, unless the holder of the
latter be made a party.
The undisputed facts as to the arrangement referred to do
not sustain the legal conclusion based upon them. That the
departure from the terms of a specially delegated power cannot
be justified upon the plea that the principal would be benefited
thereby was expressly ruled in Greenleafv. Queen, supra.
The appellants were sui juris,resided in the State, and were
represented by counsel, who had conducted the negotiations
preceding the sale. Upon what ground, then, could the appellees be justified in assuming to act for them, and determine
what was best calculated to "protect their rights and further
their interests"?
If the doctrine of the court below, in sustaining the transaction upon the ground "that it would have been sanctioned by
the court if application had then been made to confirm it," be
correct, it follows that the extent of a power depends, not upon
the terms employed in its creation, but upon the arbitrary will
of the court. There is no such principle in law; for the court
had no power to sanction a departure from the terms and conditions of the instrument under which the appellees were
acting. Dolan v. Die Mayor of Baltimore, 4 Gill, 405.
Equity may aid a defective execution of powers, when the
defect is only formal; but it cannot supply a defect in substance. .Piatv. 11McCullougA, 1 McLean, 69.
If the position we have assumed is untenable, it is submitted
that the note for 820,000 is entitled to share pari passu with
all the other notes in the proceeds, not only of the mill, but of
the other property.
The sale in 1867 and the acceptance of the notes of the
purchasers by the appellees extinguished their mortgage-debt.,
and with it the priority to which they had been entitled.
2 Hilliard on Mort., c. 86, sect. 1; Dooley v. -Hays,17 S. & R.
400; 1oler's Appeal, 5 Burr. 418; Hancock's Appeal, 84
Penn. 156.

MARKEY ET AL. V. LANGLEY ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

The mortgage gave the mortgagees no power to vacate oi
abandon a sale made at auction, or to vary its terms. The
arrangement made between them and the purchasers, after the
sale, was not, therefore, within the scope of their power.
1 Hilliard, 138.
The rule is settled, that, in determining the extent of a
power, the intention of the parties in its creation must constitute the guide. In the case at bar, the very nature of the
power rendered its exercise necessary before the sale. 12Ion.
tague v. Dawes, 14 Allen, 369.
The mortgagees were not made the agents of the mortgagors
for the purpose of a sale. Their power was studiously limited
to the selection of a '' good broker or auctioneer."
If the power to change the terms of sale, so as to bind the
junior incumbrancers, existed at all, the conclusion is irresisti
ble, that it was without limit so long as the mortgagees acted
in good faith.
If the parties to a contract of sale which is still executory
in any manner add to, subtract from, vary or qualify, its terms,
the legal effect thereof is to rescind the original contract, and
substitute a new one in its place. If new terms could be substituted, so could new prices or new qualities. Stead v. 1Dawber,
10 Adol. & Ell. 57; l31arshall v. Lynn, 6 Mkees. & Wels. 109.
If, then, the agreement be regarded as a change in the terms
of sale, and binding on all parties having an interest in the
proceeds, its legal effect was, necessarily, to annul the public
sale, and make a private one of the mortgaged premises.
Hr. Ch. Bichardson Hiles, contra.
MR. JUSTiCE- SWAYN-E delivered the opinion of the court.

The statement of facts agreed upon by the counsel of the
parties has abridged our labor in this case. We shall confine
our remarks to the points, which, in our judgment, require consideration, referring to the facts only so far as is necessary for
the elucidation of our views.
The validity of the two mortgages executed to Langley &
Co., by the corporation known as the Kalmia Mills, is not questioned; nor can it be doubted that the power to sell, which
they contained, was sufficient to warrant the sale of the mortgaged premises in the manner prescribed. Olcott v. Bynum,

Oct. 1875.]

MARKEY ET AL. v. LANGLEY ET AL.

17 Wall. 63. The good faith of Langley & Co. in making the
sale, and of Cogswell, Evans, and MIordecai in making the purchase, are undisputed. No ground is disclosed for doubt as to
either of these points. All concerned acquiesced at the time,
and were apparently satisfied. This litigation has grown out
of the large and unexpected depreciation of the property upon
which both the appellants and appellees supposed their debts
were abundantly secured, and out of the proceeds of which
they expected to be paid, if a sale became necessary.
Upon the default of the mortgagor, the mortgages gave the
mortgagees authority "to put the mortgaged premises into the
hands of some good broker and auctioneer, to be sold for cash
or credit, at the option and direction of the mortgagees, at
public sale to the highest bidder, according to the custom of
vendue, after advertising" as directed; and, further, "to do
and perform all and every other act and acts, thing and things,
which shall or may be necessary and proper for the full and
complete effecting and performing of the covenants and agreements herein contained."
The terms of sale advertised were a cash payment of onethird of the amount bid, and the balance in six, nine, and
twelve months, secured by notes and a mortgage upon the
premises. At the sale, the auctioneers announced that they
were authorized to state "that the purchasers would be able to
negotiate more favorable terms with the sellers, provided it was
to their mutual interests."
The property was sold to Cogswell, for himself, Evans, and
Mordecai, upon a bid of the amount due Langley & Co., and
• 20,000 in addition. One-third of the amount bid to be paid
in cash was 71,445.69. The buyers thereupon represented to
Langley & Co. that it was impossible for them to make the
cash payment, and asked for indulgence, and a change of the
terms of the sale with respect to the times when the payments
were to be made.
Langley & Co., rather than re-advertise the property and
take the risk incident to offering it for sale again, entered into
an agreement with the purchasers, whereby it was stipulated as
follows That the purchasers should give to Langley & Co. their four

MARKEY ET AL. v. LANGLEY ETr AL.

[Sup. Ct.

several promissory notes, one for $180,000, payable on the
12th of January, 1868 (being for the principal of the debt
then due to them), with interest; and three others, each for
$4,779.92, payable respectively at five, six, and seven months,
with interest (being for interest then due on the principal debt) ;
and, in addition, another note for $20,000, payable with interest
on the 3d of April, 1868.
The title to the mortgaged premises was to be conveyed to
Cogswell, first to pay the several notes for the purchase-money,
and then in trust for such uses and purposes as Cogswell,
Evans, and Mordecai should appoint. They were also to give to
Langley & Co. their bond, secured by several mortgages upon
their individual property, conditioned to pay any residuum that
might be left due on the notes after exhausting the property
covered by the deed of trust to Cogswell. This agreement was
in all things carried out by the parties. The note of $20,000
was intended to meet the liabilities of the Kalmia Mills to its
creditors, other than Langley & Co. The debt due to Markey
& Co. was one of those intended to be thus provided for.
A few days before the sale, Markey & Co. put on record
a contract with the Kalmia Mills, under which they had been
working upon the mortgaged premises. This gave them a mechanics' lien. They threatened to enjoin the proceedings to sell
by Langley & Co. Cogswell, Evans, and Mordecai thereupon
gave them a guaranty, that, if the guarantors became the purchasers of the premdises, they would continue the contract under
which Markey & Co. had been working, and indemnify them
against any loss arising from the Kalmia Mills failing to pay
the amount due on the contract. This being arranged, Markey
& Co. interposed no obstacle to the sale. After the sale, they
entered into a contract with Cogswell, the trustee, whereby it
was stipulated that they should be paid the sum of $18,000 for
their work done and to be done. ,They continued to work under this contract, and received payments from time to time.
The enterprise in which Cogswell, Evans, and Mordecai had
engaged, with the premises they had bought as its basis, having
failed, they requested Langley & Co. to take possession of the
pre;mises conveyed by the trust-deed to Cogswell, and of the
premises covered by the mortgages given by Cogswell, Evans,

Oct. 1875.]

MARKEY ET AL. v. LANGLEY ET AL.

and Mordecai, and to proceed to sell under the powers contained
in those instruments. Langley & Co. thereupon advertised the
Kalmia MAills property to be sold on the 10th of March, 1868.
Mlarkey & Co. and other creditors threatened to interpose by
injunction. Langley & Co. thereupon filed this bill to settle
their rights and those of the adverse parties. On the day fixed
for the sale, the Kalmia Mills property, by consent of parties,
was bought by Langley for $160,000. Forty thousand dollars
of the fund was reserved by order of the court to await the
result of this litigation. Subsequently, by the like consent of
parties, the property mortgaged by Cogswell, Evans, and Mordeeai was sold, and yielded the net sum of $52,148. The proceeds
of both sales were less than sufficient to satisfy the amount due
Langley & Co. by $6,152.13, leaving nothing to be applied to
any other liability of the Kalmia Mills.
The contest in the court below was as to the application of
the proceeds of these sales. The defendants claimed that Langley & Co. should be charged with the amount of the cash bid
of Cogswell at the sale under the original mortgages, 871,449.69,
as so much paid to them, because they had no right to waive its
payment at the time of the sale, and include it in the nptes
given for the purchase-money.
This, if done, would leave a residuum of the proceeds of the
sales large enough to pay the balance due Langley & Co., and
also the amount due on the trust-note of $20,000. Failing this,
the defendants insisted that this note should be paid out of the
proceeds of the Kalmia Mills property, and of the property
mortgaged by Cogswell, Evans, and Mordecai severally, pro rata
with the other notes given for the purchase-money.
The court below decided against them upon both points.
Here the same propositions have been urged upon our attention.
The first one cannot be maintained, for several reasons.
The mortgagor makes no objection to the sale as made. If
it were defective, this would cure the defect, and give it validity.
Taylor's Admr. v. Cfhowning, 3 Leigh, 654; .Benham et al. v.
_Rowe et al., 2 Cal. 387. If the power require the sale to be
for cash, and it is made for part cash and part credit, the de
partnure from the power is beneficial to the mortgagor, and the
sale is valid. Hubbard v. Jarrell, 23 Md. 75. When the

MARKEY ET AL. V. LANGLEY ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

power is to sell for cash, and the sale is made accordingly, the
mortgagee may allow time for the payment of the purchasemoney; and whether this arrangement is made before or
after the sale is immaterial. lXahone v. WUiams, 39 Ala.,
x. s. 202.
Where mortgaged premises were offered for sale for cash
Under a power which required the sale to be so made, they were
struck off for $2,375. The purchaser tendered $1,200 cash,
and offered to give any security that might be required for the
payment of the balance when the sale was confirmed. The
mortgagee declined to receive the money and the security, as
not in conformity with the terms of the sale. The property
was offered for sale again, and bought by the mortgagee for
$1,600.
The court said, "In determining upon the approval or rejection of the sale in
such cases, the true question to be considered is, not so much
whether there has been a literal or technical, as a fair and reason.
able, compliance with the terms of sale, and a bona fide disposition
of the property.
"Without intending to charge the mortgagee in this case with
the wilful violation of his trust, the circumstances disclosed by the
proof show reasonable ground for the inference that he misapprehended the nature of his duty as trustee, which required an advantageous sale of the property for the benefit of all the parties
interested."
The sale was vacated. Horsey v. Hlough, 38 Md. 139. See
also Gibson's Case, 1 Bland, *Ch. 144; Olcott v. Bynum, 17
Wall. 63.
Where a power coupled with a discretion has been exercised,
a court of equity, in the absence of fraud, very rarely interferes.
Olcott v. Bynum, supra.
In this case, the mortgagees were expressly authorized to sell
for cash or on credit. This gave them authority to do either, or
to combine them in the sale. What was done was a simple
exercise of the discretion with which they were clothed. It
was in pursuance of the notice given at the vendue. It was
intended to promote the sale of the premises upon the best terms
that could be procured. Such an exercise of the power was as

Oct. 1875.]

MARKEY

ET AL. v. LANGLEY ET AL.

competent after as before the property was struck off. In this
respect, the power is without restriction. The arrangement was
apparently greatly beneficial to Markey & Co. and the unsecured creditors, as well as to Langley & Co. It does not appear
that there was any bidder but the purchasers. It is clear that
they could not have made the cash payment. If insisted upon,
the sale would have fallen through. Besides the mortgaged
premises, a large amount of additional property was pledged for
t] e payment of the purchase-money. The light thrown backward by subsequent events shows clearly that it was the only
way, to secure the payment of the debt due to Langley & Co.,
and leave any thing for the other creditors. The arrangement
seemed to furnish the means of satisfying all demands. That
it failed to do this was not the fault of Langley & Co.
A mortgagee, in such circumstances, is a trustee for the benefit of all concerned. He must regard the interests of others as
well as his own. He should seek to promote the common welfare. If he does this, and keeps within the scope of his authority, a court of equity will in no wise hold him responsible for
mere errors of judgment, if they have occurred, or for results,
however unfortunate, which he could not reasonably have
anticipated. Hext v. -Porcher,1 Strob. Eq. 172.
The second proposition is also untenable.
The liens of the mortgages and the mechanics' lien attached
to the proceeds of the sales in the same manner, in the same
order, and with the same effect, as they bound the premises
before the sales were made. Astor v. .1iller and Others,
2 Paige, 68; Sweet v. Jacobs, 6 id. 355; Brown v. Stewart,
1 Md. Ch. Decis. 87; Olcott v. ynum, 17 Wall. 63.
In the view of equity, the new securities stood in substitution

for the old ones; the liens of Langley & Co. being prior in point
of time to all others, and first to be paid. As the case is developed in the record, such appears plainly to have been the intent
of the parties. The note of $20,000 was the last to mature.
If the sale to Cogswell had been made by a master or a trustee other than those named in the power of sale, for cash or on
credit, the money, when received, would have been paid over
according to the priorities of the liens of the parties entitled to
receive it. Langley & Co. would have been first paid.

TERRY v. TUBMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

The fact that the sale was made by the mortgagees, acting
as trustees and performing the functions of a master, does not
change the principle involved, nor affect its application.
It appears that a question was raised in the court below as to
the right of the unsecured creditors of the Kalmia Mills to
share with Markey & Co. in the proceeds of this note. As
there can be no such proceeds, we need not consider that subiect.
.Decree affirmed.

TERRY

v.

TuBmAw.

1. Where the charter of a bank contained a provision binding the individual
property of its stockholders for the ultimate redemption of its bills in proportion to the number of shares held by them respectively, the liability of
the stockholders arises when the bank refuses or ceases to redeem and is
notoriously and continuously insolvent.

2. Such insolvency having occurred prior to June 1, 1865, an action against a stockholder, not commenced by Jan. 1, 1870, is barred by the Statute of Limitations of the State of Georgia of March 16, 1869.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Georgia.
_Ir. H~arvey Terry for the plaintiff in error.
MiJr. William H. Hull, contra.
MR. JUSTIcE HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff, a citizen of Georgia, brings his action to recover
from Mrs. Tubman the sum of $5,400. He alleges that he
holds the circulating notes of the Bank of Augusta, Ga., to
that amount; and that the defendant was, in June, 1862, and
thenceforth, a holder of three hundred and seven shares of the
stock of that bank, of the nominal value of $100 per share.
The Bank of Augusta was chartered Dec. 27, 1845, and its
charter contained the following provision:" SECT. 3. That the individual property of the stockholders in
said bank shall be bound for the ultimate redemption ef the bills
issued by said bank in proportion to the number of shares held by
them respectively; and, in case of a failure of said bank, all trans.
fers of stock made within six months prior to a failure or refusal

