Oct. 1875.]

CHEATHAM ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

cannot even encourage an act to be done, and then exercise a
legal right in hostility to such act, to the injury of the party
obeying his intimations. Swain v. Seamen, 9 Wall. 254, 274.
Especially is he bound, when, as in the present case, his
direction is clothed -with the solemnity of a legal proceeding,
and the money is received and distributed under the forms of
]a w.
The question, whether, under the Bankrupt Act, the District
Court had authority to make the order in question, and the
decision of the State court thereon, are sufficient to sustain the
Federal jurisdiction.
Judgment reversed.

CHEATHA.

ET AL. V. UITED STATES.

A party, against whom an assessment was made in 1865 for an income-tax, appealed therefrom to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, who, Oct. 7,1867,
set it aside, and ordered a new one, which was made March 15, 1868. The sum
thereby assessed, with interest and penalty, was paid in instalments. Suit to
recover the money so paid was brought Jan. 15, 1869. Held,that the party
had no right of action, inasmuch as he failed to sue within six months from
the date of the decision of the commissioner on the appeal, and had taken no
appeal from the second assessment.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Middle District of Tennessee.
31tfr. Henry Cooper for the plaintiff in error.
.Mr. Assistant Attorney- General -Edwin B. Smith, contra.

MR. JusTicE MmLER delivered the opinion of the court.

Plaintiffs in error paid to the defendant, who was collector
of internal revenue, the sum of $32,074 under protest, and
brought their suit to recover the money, on the ground that
the tax, as assessed, was illegal. It was assessed as income-tax
for the year 1864 against the female plaintiff, who was then a
widow, named Acklin. The tax originally assessed amounted
to $99,726. From this assessment Mrs. Acklin appealed to
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, who, on the 7th of
October, 1867, rendered his decision, setting aside that assessment, and directing the local assessor to make a new one, and

CHEATHAM ET AL. V. UNITED ST.TUS.

[Sup.

at.

giving him directions as to the principles on which it should
be made. On the fifteenth day of March, 1868, the new assessment was made at the sum of $29,971.91. This sum, with
interest and penalty, was paid at three different times, as
follows Apr1i 80, 1868 ..
............
$3,799.00
July 25, 1868 ....
..........
. 20,000.00
Oct. 29, 1868 . . . . . . . . . . 8,275.00
$32,074.00
The present suit for the recovery of the money so paid was
commenced by a writ of summons, issued Jan. 15, 1869.
The cause being transferred from the State court in which
it was commenced to the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Middle District of Tennessee, that court, on the trial,
instructed the jury that the nineteenth section of the act of
July 13, 1866, imposed a condition, without which the plaintiffs could not recover, and was not merely a statute of limitation; and as plaintiffs had not brought this suit within six
months from the decision of the commissioner on their appeal,
and had taken no appeal from the second assessment, made
March 15, 1868, they had no right of action.
The soundness of this construction of the statute is the only*
question in the case.
The section under consideration (14 Stat. 152) is as follows: "That no suit shall be maintained in any court for the recovery
of any tax alleged to have been erroneously or illegally assessed or
collected until appeal shall have been duly made to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue according to the provisions of law in
that regard, and the regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury
established in pursuance thereof, and a decision of said commissioner shall be had thereon, unless such suit shall be brought within
six months from the time of said decision, or within six months
from the time this act takes effect; provided that if said decision
shall be delayed more than six months from the date of such ap.
peal, then said suit may be brought at any time within twelve
months from the date of such appeal."

Oct. 1875.]

CHEATHAM ET AL. V.

UNITED

STATES.

It is quite clear that this suit was not brought within six
months from the time of the decision of the commissioner on
the appeal of Mrs. Aeklin. No appeal was taken at all from
the second assessment, under which the money was paid.
The argument of plaintiffs' counsel is, that the appeal was
taken from the first assessment; and this is the only appeal
necessary to give them a right of action, which right they preserved by paying the modified assessment under protest. As
to the period of six months prescribed by the statute within
which the suit must be brought, it is said that this is a mere
statute of limitation, and that the time under it cannot begin
to run until the cause of action accrued, which in this case was
not until the money was paid. It is insisted that plaintiffs
were not in condition to bring suit until the tax was paid; and
that it could not have been intended by Congress that the very
short limitation of six months should include any time before
the money '%as paid, during which they had no right of action.
Considered as a statute of limitation, and nothing more, the
proposition is not without weight; but we think there are two
sufficient answers to it: 1. The assessment on which this money was paid was a different assessment from the one upon which the appeal to the
commissioner was taken. That assessment was wholly set
aside. The matter was referred to the local assessor, with
directions to make a new assessment. The rules by which this
new assessment was to be made were prescribed for him, and
differed materially from those which governed the first assessment. The commissioner did not pretend to modify the original, or to reduce it, and let it stand as so modified or reduced.
He did not even fix the amount to be assessed. It was an entirely new and distinct assessment, based on different principles,
which resulted in a sum not one-third as large as the assessment
which had been set aside. From this assessment plaintiffs had
an undoubted right to appeal to the commissioner, and urge
any of the reasons which they now rely on to show that it was
illegal. They paid it without such appeal; and, in doing so, we
think they come within the provisions of the section which
forbids suit, unless an appeal has been taken.
But suppose that the two assessments could be treated as one

OHEATHAM ET AL. V. UNITED

STATES.

[St'p. Ct

transaction, and that the appeal taken was sufficient to authorize the action, if the suit had been brought within six months
after the decision of the commissioner: we are still of opinion
that it cannot be maintained, because it was not brought within
that time.
All governments, in all times, have found it necessary to
adopt stringent measures for the collection of taxes, and to be
rigid in the enforcement of them.
These measures are not judicial; nor does the government
resort, except in extraordinary cases, to the courts for that
purpose. The revenue measures of every civilized government
constitute a system which provides for its enforcement by officers commissioned for that purpose. In this country, this
system for each State, or for the Federal government, provides
safeguards of its own against mistake, injustice, or oppression,
in the administration of its revenue laws. Such appeals are
allowed to specified tribunals as the law-makers deem expedient. Such remedies, also, for recovering back taxes illegally
exacted, as may seem wise, are provided. In these respects,
the United States have, as was said by this court in
ciols v.
United States, 7 Wall. 122, enacted a system of corrective justice, as well as a system of taxation, in both its customs and
internal-revenue branches. That system is intended to be
complete. In the customs department it permits appeals from
appraisers to other appraisers, and in proper cases to the Secretary of the Treasury; and, if dissatisfied with this highest
decision of the executive department of the government, the law
permits the party, on paying the money required, with a protest embodying the grounds of his objection to the tax, to sue
the government through its collector, and test in the courts the
validity of the tax.
So also, in the internal-revenue departmtent, the statute
which we have copied allows appeals from the assessor to the
commissioner of internal revenue; and, if dissatisfied with his
decision, on paying the tax the party can sue the collector;
and, if the money was wrongfully exacted, the courts will give
him relief by a judgment, which the United States pledges
herself to pay.
It will be readily conceded, from what we have here stated,

Oct. 1875.]

CHEATHAM ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

89

that the government has the right to prescribe the conditions
on which it will subject itself to the judgment of the courts in
the collection of its revenues.
If there existed in the courts, State or National, any gouera
power of impeding or contirolling the collection of taxes, or relieving the hardship incident to taxation, the very existence of
the government might be placed in the power of a hostile judiciary. Dows v. The City of Chieago, 11 Wall. 108. While a
free course of remonstrance and appeal is allowed within the
departments before the money is finally exacted, the general
government has wisely made the payment of the tax claimed,
whether of customs or of internal revenue, a condition precedent to a resort to the courts by the party against whom the
tax is assessed. In the internal-revenue branch it has further
prescribed that no such suit shall be brought until the remedy
by appeal has been tried; and, if brought after this, it must
be within six months after the decision on the appeal. We
regard this as a condition on which alone the government consents to litigate the lawfulness of the original tax. It is not a
hard condition. Few governments have conceded such a right
on any condition. If the compliance with this condition requires the party aggrieved to pay the money, he must do it.
He cannot, after the decision is rendered against him, protract
the time within which he can contest that decision in the
courts by his own delay in paying the money. It is essential
to the honor and orderly conduct of the government that its
taxes should be promptly paid, and drawbacks speedily adjusted; and the rule prescribed in this class of cases is neither
arbitrary nor unreasonable. That such was the intention of
Congress, in the sixteenth section, is further shown by the
provision, that even the delay of the commissioner in deciding
the appeal shall not enlarge the time for suit beyond twelve
months from the date of taking the appeal.
The objecting party can take his appeal. He can, if the
decision is delayed beyond twelve months, rest his case on that
decision; or he can pay the amount claimed, and commence his
suit at any time within that period. So, after the decision, he
can pay at once, and commence suit within the six months; or
he can have such delays in payment as he can obtain; and, if

WALKER V.

SAUVINET.

[Sup. Ct.

this carries him beyond the six months, it is his own fault,
and he should not complain. Brown v. Sauerwien, 10 Wall.
218; Te Collector v. Hubbard, 12 id. 1. We find no error in
the record.
Judgment affirmed.

WAI=R v. SAUVn, T.
1 A trial by jury in suits at common law pending in the State courts is not a
privilege or immunity of national citizenship which the States are for.
bidden by the :Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States to abridge.
2. Questions presented bythe assignment of error cannot be considered here,
unless the record shows that they were brought to the attention of the court
below.

ERORn to the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana.
This is an action brought by Sauvinet against Walker, a
licensed keeper of a coffee-house in New Orleans, for refusing
him refreshments when called for, on the ground that he was a
man of color.
Art. 13 of the Constitution of Louisiana provides that "all
persons shall enjoy equal rights and privileges upon any conveyance of a public character; and all places of business or of
public resort, or for which a license is required by either state,
parish, or municipal authority, shall be deemed places of a public character, and shall be open to the accommodation and
patronage of all persons, without distinction or discrimination
on account of race or color." On the 23d February, 1869, an
act was passed by the general assembly of the State, entitled
"An Act to enforce the thirteenth article of the Constitution of
this State, and to regulate the licenses mentioned in said thirteenth article." Sect. 3 of this act is as follows: " SECT. 3. That all licenses hereafter granted by this State, and
by all parishes and municipalities therein, to persons engaged in

business, or keeping places of public resort, shall contain the express
condition, that the place of business or public resort shall be open
to the accommodation and patronage of all persons, without distinction or discrimination on account of race or color; and any

