642

HUM[BOLDT TOWxSHiP v. LONG ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

follows that the first question certified to us should be answered
in the negative.
Such being our opinion respecting the first question certified,
the second and third questions are immaterial, and they require
no consideration.
Judgment reversed, and new trial ordered.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER, MR. JUSTICE
JUSTICE FIELD, dissented.

DAvis, and

MR.

HUAMBOLDT TOWNISmP v. LONG ET AT,.
1. The bonds in question in this suit were issued under the authority of the
same act of the legislature as those mentioned in the preceding case.
doctrines there held are reaffirmed.
2. A bond of the tenor following, -

I

The

"Be it known that Humboldt Township, in the county of Allen and State of
Kansas, is indebted t6 the Fort Scott and Allen County Railroad Company,
or bearer, in the sum of $1,000, lawful money of the United States, with
interest at the rate of seven per cent per annum, payable annually on the
first
days of January in each year, at the banking-house of Gilman, Son, &
Co., in the city of New York, on the presentation and surrender of the
respective interest-coupons hereto annexed. The principal of this bond
shall be due and payable on the thirty-first day of December, A.Dl. 1901, at
the banking-house of Gilman, Son, & Co., in the city of New York. This
bond is issued for the purpose of subscribing to the capital stock of the
Fort Scott and Allen County Railroad. and for the construction of the
same through said township, in pursuance of and in accordance with an
act of the legislature of the State of Kansas, entitled 'An Act to enable
municipal townships to subscribe for stock in any railroad, and to provide
for the payment of the same,' approved Feb. 25, A.D. 1870; and for the
payment of said sum of money and accruing interest thereon, in manner
aforesaid, upon the performance of the said condition, the faith of the
aforesaid Humboldt Township, as also its property, revenue, and resources,
is pledged.
I In testimony whereof, this bond has been signed by the chairman of the
board of county commissioners of Allen County, Kan., and attested by the
county-clerk of said county, this twelfth day of October, 1871.
"Z. WISNEaiR,
"Chairman County Commissioners.
"Attest: W. E. WAGGONER, County-Clerk."
is negotiable, and a bona fide holder is entitled to the rights of a holder of
negotiable paper taken in the ordinary course of business before maturity.
8. Although the election authorizing the issue of the bonds was held within less
-

Oct. 1875.]

HUMBOLDT TOWNSHIP v. LONG

ET AL.

than thirty days after the day of the order calling it, they are not thereby
rendered invalid in the hands of a bona fide holder for value, who, without
any knowledge of the process through which the legislative authority was
exercised, relied upon the recitals in them that they had been issued in
accordance with law. The recitals are conclusive in a suit brought by him
against the township.

ERrOr to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kansas.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Submitted on printed briefs by Mr. Wilson Shannon for the
plaintiff in error, and by .11r. C. a Olemens, contra.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.

The first question certified from the court below, is, whether
the bonds to which the coupons in suit were attached are negotiable bonds, such as to entitle the plaintiff to the rights of a
bwLa fide holder of negotiable paper taken in the ordinary
course of business before maturity.
They are certificates of indebtedness to the railroad company, or bearer, each for 81,000, lawful money of the United
States, payable on a day certain, with interest at the rate of
seven per cent, payable annually on the first days of January
in each year, at a specified banking-house, on the presentation
and surrender of the respective interest-coupons thereto annexed. If this were all, there could be no doubt of their complete negotiability. But, it is said, the subsequent language of
the certificates controls the absolute promise, and shows that
payment was to be made only on a contingency. This is
argued from the recital contained in the instrument, and from
what follows it. We quote: "This bond is issued for the purpose of subscribing to the capital stock of the Fort Scott and
Allen County Railroad, and for the construction of the same
through the said township, in pursuance of, and in accordance
with, an act of the legislature of the State of Kansas, entitled,
"An Act to enable municipal townships to subscribe for stock
in any railroad, and to provide for the payment of the same,
approved Feb. 25, 1870;' and for the payment of the said
sum of money and accruing interest thereon, in manner aforesaid, upon the performance of the said condition, the faith ot
the aforesaid Humboldt Township, as also its property, revenue,

644

HUMBOLDT TOWNSHIP v. LONG ET AL.

[Sup. OL

and resources, is pledged." Relying upon this clause of the certificate, the township contends that the construction of the railroad
through the township was a condition upon which the payment
was agreed to be made. We think, however, this is not the.
true construction of the contract. The construction of the
road, as well as the subscription for stock, were mentioned in
the recital as the reasons why the township entered into the
contract, not as conditions upon which its performance was
made to depend. It was for the purpose of subscribing, and to
aid in the construction of the road, that the bond was given.
The words, "upon the performance of the said condition,"
cannot then refer to any thing mentioned in the recital, for
there is no condition there. A much more reasonable construction is, that they refer to a former part of the bond, where the
annual interest is stipulated to be payable at a banker's, "on
the presentation and surrender of the respective interestcoupons." Such presentation and surrender is, the only con-,
dition mentioned in the instrument. But that stipulation
presents no such contingency-as destroys the negotiability of
the instrument. It is what is always implied in every proimissory note or bill of exchange,- that it is to be presented
and surrendered when paid. As well might it be said that a
note payable on demand is payable upon a contingency, and
therefore non-negotiable, as to affirm that one payable on
its presentation and surrender is, for that reason, destitute of
negotiability.
The next question certified is, whether the bonds are invalid.
because of the fact that the election was held within less than
thirty days after the day of the order.calling for it.
The act of the legislature under which the bonds purport tohave been issued (passed in 1870) is the act under which the,
bonds considered in the case of 3_Harcy v. Township of Oswego,
supra, p. 637, were issued. We held in that case, that, by its
provisions the board of county commissioners, who caused the
bonds to be issued, were constituted the authority to determine
whether the conditions of fact, made by the statute precedent
to the exercise of the authority granted to execute and issuer
the bonds, had been performed, and that their recital in the
bonds issued by them was conclusive in a suit against the

Oot. 1875.]

HUMBOLDT TowNSHip v. LONG ET AL.

township brought by a bona fide holder. In so ruling, we but
-decided what had often before been decided, and what ought
to be regarded as a fixed rule. Applying it to the solution of
the luestion now before us, it is plain that the bonds are not
invalid, because all the notice of the popular election was not
given which the legislative act directed. The election was a
step in the process of execution of the power granted to issue
bonds in payment of a municipal subscription to the stock of a
ruflroad company. It did not itself confer the power. Whether that step had been taken or not, and whether the election had been regularly conducted with sufficient notice, and
whether the requisite majority of votes had been cast in favor
'of a subscription, and consequent bond issue, were questions
which the law submitted to the board of county commissioners,
and which it was necessary for them to answer before they
could act. In the present case, the board passed upon them
and issued the bonds, asserting by the recitals that they were
issued "in pursuance of and in accordance with the act of the
legislature." Thus the plaintiff below took them, without
knowledge of any irregularities in the process through which
the legislative authority was exercised, and relying upon the
assurance given by the board, that the bonds had been issued
in accordance with the law. In his hands, therefore, they are
valid instruments.
The third question certified is answered by what was decided
in the case of 3.1arey v. Township of Oswego, supra, p. 637, to
which we have already referred. There is no essential difference between this case and that. The assessment-rolls of the
township may have been, proper evidence for the consideration
of the board of county commissioners, when they were inquiring what the value of the taxable property of the township
was; but the bonds are not invalid in the hands of a bona fide
holder by reason of their having been voted and issued in excess (if the statutory limit, as shown by the rolls. Whatever
may be the right of the township as against those who issued
the bonds, it cannot set up against a bona fide holder of the
bonds that the amount issued was too large, in the face of the
decision of the board, and their recital that the bonds were
issued pursuant to and in accordance with the act of 1870.
Judgnment afflrmed.

HUMIBOLDT TOWNSHIP v.

LoN(; ET AL.

LSUp. Ct.

MUJxR, with whom concurred MR. JUSTIOE
FirELD, dissenting.
We have had argued and submitted to us, during the present
term, some ten or twelve cases involving the validity of bonds
issued in aid of railroads by counties and towns in different
States.
They were reserved for decision until a late day in the term;
and the opinions having been delivered in all of them within
the last few weeks, I have waited for what I have thought
proper to say by way of dissent to some of them until the last
of these judgments are announced, as they have been to day.
I understand these opinions to hold, that, when the constitution of the State, or an act of its legislature, imperatively forbids these municipalities to issue bonds in aid of railroads or
other similar enterprises, all such bonds issued thereafter will
be held void. But, if there exists any authority whatever to
issue such bonds, no restrictions, limitations, or conditions
imposed by the legislature in the exercise of that authority can
be made effectual, if they be disregarded by the officers of those
corporations.
That such is the necessary consequence of the decision just
read, in the cases from the State of Kansas, is too obvious to
need argument or illustration. That State had enacted a general
law on the subject of subscriptions by counties and towns to
aid in the construction of railroads, in which it was declared
that no bonds should be issued on which the interest required
an annual levy of a tax beyond one per cent of the value of the
taxable property of the municipality which issued them.
In the cases under consideration this provision of the statute
was wholly disregarded. I am not sure that the relative
amount of the bonds, and of the taxable property of the towns,
is given in these cases with exactness; but I do know that in
some of the cases tried before me last summer in Kansas it was
shown that the first and only issue of such bonds exceeded in
amount the entire value of the taxable property of the town, as
shown by the tax-list of the year preceding the issue.
This court holds that such a showing is no defence to the
bonds, notwithstanding the express prohibition of the legislature.
TM"J. JUsTICE

DAVIS and MR. JUSTICE

Oct. 1875.]

HU31BOLDT TOWNSHIP v. LONG ET AL.

It is therefore clear that, so long as this doctrine is upheld, it
is not in the power of the legislature to authorize these corporations to issue bonds under any special circumstances, or with
any limitation in the use of the power, which may not be
disregarded with impunity.
It may be the wisest policy to prevent the issue of such
bonds altogether. But it is not for this court to dictate a
policy for the States on that subject.
The result of the decision is a most extraordinary one. It
stands alone in the construction of powers specifically granted,
whether the source of the power be a State constitution, an act
of the legislature, a resolution of a corporate body, or a written
authority given by an individual. It establishes that of all the
class of agencies, public or private, whether acting as officers
whose powers are created by statute or by other corporations
or by individuals, and whether the subject-matter relates to
duties imposed by the nation, or the State, or by private corporations, or by individuals, on this one class of agents, and in
regard to the exercise of this one class of powers alone, must
full, absolute, and uncontrollable authority be conferred on
them, or none. In reference to municipal bonds alone, the law
is, that no authority to issue them can be given which is
capable of any effectual condition or limitation as to its
exercise.
The power of taxation, which has repeatedly been stated by
this court to be the most necessary of all legislative powers,
and least capable of restriction, may by positive enactments be
limited. If the constitution of a State should declare that no,
tax shall be levied exceeding a certain per cent of the value of
the property taxed, any statute imposing a larger rate would
be void as to the excess. If the legislature should say that no
municipal corporation should assess a tax beyond a certain per
cent, the courts would not hesitate to pronounce a levy in
excess of that rate void.
But when the legislature undertakes to limit the power of
creating a debt by these corporations, which will require a tax
to pay it in excess of that rate of taxation, this court says there
is no power to do this effectually. No such principle has ever
been applied by this court, or by any other court, to a State. to

HUM1BOLDT

TowNSHIP v. LONG

ET AL.

[Sup. Ot.

the United States, to private corporations, or to individuals. I
challenge the production of a case in which it has been so
applied.
In the Floyd Acceptance Cases, 7 Wall. 666, in which the
Secretary of War had accepted time-dafts drawn on him by a
contractor, which, being negotiable, came into the hands of
bona fide purchasers before due, we held that they were void
for. want of authority to accept them. And this case has been
cited by this court more than once without question. No one
-would think for a moment of holding that a power of attorney
made by an individual cannot be so limited as to make any one
dealing with the agent bound by the limitation, or that the
agent's construction of his power bound the principal. Nor
has it ever been contended that an officer of a private corporation can, by exceeding his authority, when that authority is
express, is open and notorious, bind the corporation which he
professes to represent.
The simplicity of the device by which this doctrine is upheld
as to municipal bonds is worthy the admiration of all who wish
to profit by the frauds of municipal officers.
It is, that wherever a condition or limitation is imposed upon
the power of those officers in issuing bonds, they are the sole
and final judges of the extent of those powers. If they decide
to issue them, the law presumes that the conditions on which
their powers depended existed, or that the limitation upon the
exercise of the power has been complied with; and especially
and particularly if they make a false recital of the fact on which
the power depends in the paper they issue, this false recital
has the effect of creating a power which had no existence
without it.
This .remarkable result is always defended on the ground
that the paper is negotiable, and the purchaser is ignorant of
the falsehood. But in the Floyd Acceptance Cases this court
held, and it was necessary to hold so there, that the inquiry
into the authority by which negotiable paper was issued was
just the same as if it were not negotiable, and that if no such
authority existed it could not be aided by giving the paper that
form. In County Bond Cases it seems to be otherwise.
In that case the court held that the party taking such paper

Oct. 1875.]

HUM1BOLDT TOWNkSHIP v. LoNG ET AL.

was bound to know the law as it affected the authority of the
officer who issued it. In County Bond Cases, while this principle of law is not expressly contradicted, it is held that the
paper, though issued without authority of law, and in opposition to its express provisions, is still valid.
There is no reason, in the nature of the condition on which
the power depends in these cases, why any purchaser should
not take notice of its existence before he buys. The bonds in
each case were issued at one time, as one act, of one date, and
in payment of one subscription. All this was a matter of
record in the town where it was done.
So, also, the valuation of all the property of the town for the
taxation of the year before the bonds were issued is of record
both in that town and in the office of the clerk of the county
in which the town is located. A purchaser had but to write
to the township-clerk or the county-clerk to know precisely
the amount of the issue of bonds and the value of the taxable
property within the township. In the matter of a power depending on these facts, in any other class of cases, it would be
held that, before buying these bonds, the purchaser must look
to those matters on which their validity depended.
They are all public, all open, all accessible, -the statute, the
ordinance for their issue, the latest assessment-roll. But in
favor of a purchaser of municipal bonds all this is to be disregarded, and a debt contracted without authority, and in violation of express statute, is to be collected out of the"property of
the helpless man who owns any in that district.
I say helpless advisedly, because these are not his agents.
They are the officers of the law, appointed or elected without
his consent, acting contrary, perhaps, to his wishes.
Surely if the acts of any class of officers should be valid only
when done in conformity to law, it is those who manage the
affairs of towns, counties, and villages, in creating debts which
not they, but the property-owners, must pay.
The original case on which this ruling is based is Knox
County v. Aspinwall, 21 How. 589. It has, I admit, been frequently cited and followed in this court since then, but the
reasoning on which it was founded has never been examined
or defended until now: it has simply been followed. The case

HUMBOLDT TOWNSHIP v. LONG ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

of tlie Town of Colomav. Eaves, supra,p. 484, is the first attempt
to defend it on principle that has ever been made. How far it
has been successful I will not undertake to say. Of one thing
I feel very sure, that if the English judges who decided the
case of The Royal British Bankc v. Tarquand,on the authority
of which Knox County v. Aspinwall was based, were here to'day, they would be filled with astonishment at this result of
their decision.
The bank in that case was not a corporation. It was a jointstock company in the nature of a partnership. The action was
against the manager as such, and the question concerned his
power to borrow money. This power depended in this particular case on a resolution of the company. The charter or deed
of settlement gave the power, and, when it was exercised, the
court held that the lender was not bound to examine the records
of the company to see if the resolution had been legally sufficient.
That was a private partnership. Its papers and records were
not open to public inspection. The manager and directors
were not officers of the law, whose powers were defined by
statute, nor was the existence of the condition on which the
power depended to be ascertained by the inspection of public
and official records made and kept by officers of the law for
that very purpose.
In all these material circumstances that case differed widely
from those now before us.
It is easy to say, and looks plausible when said, that if municipal corporations put bonds on the market, they must pay
them when they become due.
But it is another thing to say that when an officer created by
the law exceeds the authority conferred upon him, and in open
violation of law issues these bonds, the owner of property
lying within the corporation must pay them, though he had no.
part whatever in their issue, and no power to prevent it.
This latter is the true view of the matter. As the corporation
could only exercise such power as the law conferred, the issuing of the bonds was not the act of the corporation. It is a false
assumption to say that the corporation put them on the market.
If one of two innocent persons must suffer for the unauthor-

Oct. 1875.]

INTERM31INGLED COTTON CASES.

ized act of the township or county officers, it is clear that he
who could, before parting with his money, have easily ascertained that they were unauthorized, should lose, rather than the
property-holder, who might not know any thing of the matter,
or, if he did, had no power to prevent the wrong.

INTERAMINGLED

COTTON CASES.

UNITED STATES v. RAYIOND, ASSIGNEE; SAiE v. ICIDD
=ISTRATOR; SA-E v. BIRABSTOIN;
S.AME v. COWAN, AD L

SAME v. SPEARI;

SAME v. McLEAx; SAME

SAiE v. BATCHELOR;

SAME v. HAWKINS;

v. COOK;
SAME V.

GARDNER, ASSIGNEE; SAME v. BODENHE I, EXECUTRIX.
1. The Court of Claims found that cotton in large quantities captured from the
respective owners thereof in Mississippi by the military forces of the
United States was subsequently intermingled and stored in a common mass,
and then sent forward and sold by the treasury agents in the same intermingled condition, and the proceeds thereof paid into the treasury as a
common fund; that court further found as a fact that the cotton of each of
the claimants in these suits contributed to and formed a part of the mass
so intermingled and sold. Having ascertained the amount of that fund remaining in the treasury after deducting payments theretofore made to other
claimants, the number of bales sold to create the fund for which payment
had not already been made, and the number of bales contributed by each of
the plaintiffs to the common mass, -the court thereupon gave judgment in
favor of the plaintiff in each case for a sum which bore the same proportion to the whole fund still on hand that the number of his bales did to the
whole number then represented by the fund. Held, that the judgment was
proper.
2. While the Court of Claims cannot delegate its judicial powers, and must itself
hear and determine all causes which come before it for adjudication, no
reason exists why it may not use such machinery as courts of more general
jurisdiction are accustomed to employ under similar circumstances to aid in
their investigations.
8. Where that court in certain cases before it, in which complicated accounts and
facts were to be passed upon, referred them to a special commissioner to
state the accounts, marshal the assets, and adjust the losses, "so that equal
and exact justice should be done to all;" and upon consideration of his
report, and after due deliberation, approved it, - Held, that the judgments
as rendered are the result of the deliberation of the court, and not that of
the commissioner alone.

