Oct. 1875.1

CAREY ET AL. v. BROWN.

one who held title by conveyance from the Confederate States,
and under that title had obtained possession. Neither would
they interfere in behalf of a7 purchaser from the Confederate
States to enforce possession under his sale. But when his possession has been lost by reason of his sale, no matter how, the
courts will afford him no relief against the loss. Having by
his acts entered the lists against his rightful government, he
cannot, if he loses, ask it for protection against what he has
voluntarily done. In this case he seeks to enforce a right
growing out of his contract of sale, which was tainted with the
vice of the rebellion. It was a contract which could not have
been enforced against hian, and he is equally powerless under
its provisions against others. He seeks in effect, by this action,
to recover, in the courts of the United States, the purchasemoney due from the Confederate States, upon the principle that
a sale upon credit implies a guaranty of the solvency of the
purchaser until the payment is made. We have already seen
that such is not his position here; but if it were, having lost
his possession, he has no standing in court for relief. He is not
the owner of the property, and his lien is not one the courts of
Judgment affirmed.
the United States will enforce.

CAREY ET AL. v. BROWN.
1. Where a suit, brought by a trustee to recover trust-property, or to reduce it
to possession, in no wise affects his relations with his cestuis que trust,it is un-

necessary to make them parties.
2. Where the want of parties does not appear on the face of the bill, the objec-

tion must be set up by plea or answer, and cannot be made for the first
time in this court.
8. A person cannot avail himself of a lien, the discharge of which has been
fraudulently prevented by his own acts.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
J1Ir. Conway Robinson for the appellants.
31r. Tiomas J. Durant for the appellee.

OAREY ET AL. v. BROWN.

[Sup. Ct.

MR. JUSTIUm SwAY= delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellants were defendants in the court below. Tucker
and Hoskins, the other defendantg, declined to appeal
The case was ably argued here by the counsel upon both sides.
It is insisted that the bill is fatally defective for want of parties. It alleges that the complainant was the owner and holder
of the ten promissory notes which lie at the foundation of the
case. In his testimony, he says he held the legal title to them,
and that they were delivered to him by their respective ownors, with power to settle and dispose of them at his discretion,
and with no condition imposed but the implied one that he
should account for the proceeds to those from whom he received them.
The transfer created a trust. Those who transferred them
were the cestuis que trust, and Brown was the trustee.
The general rule is, that in suits respecting trust-property,
brought either by or against the trustees, the cestuis que trust
as well as the trustees are necessary parties. Story's Eq. P1.,
sect. 207. To this rule there are several exceptions. One of
them is, that where the suit is brought by the trustee to recover the trust-property or to reduce it to possession, and in no
wise affects his relation with his cestuis que trust, it is unnecessary to make the latter parties. Horsly v. Fawcett, 11 Beav.
569, was a case of this kind. The objection taken here was
taken there. The Master of the Rolls said, "If the object of
the bill were to recover the fund with a view to its administration by the court, the parties interested-must be represented.
But it merely seeks to recover the trust-moneys, so as to enable
the trustee hereafter to distribute them agreeably to the trusts
declared. It is, therefore, unnecessary to bring before the court
the parties beneficially interested." Such is now the settled
rule of equity pleading and practice. Adams v. Bradley et al.,
6 IMich. 346; Ashton v. The Atlantic Bank, 3 Allen, 217; Bod n v. Partridge et al., 2 Gray, 191; Swift and Others v. Stebbins, 4 Stew. & P. 447 ; The Association, J'c. v. Beekman, Adm'r,
et al., 21 Barb. 555; Alexander v. Cana, I De G. & Sm. Ch.
415; Potts v. The Thames Haven and Dock Co., 7 Eng. Law &
Eq. 262; Story v. Livingston's L'x'r, 13 Pet. 859. Where the
want of parties appears on the face of the bill, the objection

Oct. 1875.]

CAREY ET AL. v. BROWN.

may be taken by demurrer. Where it does not so appear, it
must be made by plea or answer. Here the defect, if there
was one, did not appear in the bill, and no plea or answer setting it up was filed in the Circuit Court. It was first made
here. A formal objection of this kind cannot avail the party
making it, when made for the first time in this court. Story
v. Livingston's Ex'r, supra.
It is said that Hoskins prescribed a condition precedent; and
that Brown, not having complied with it, never acquired any
right or title to the property in controversy. We had occasion
to consider this head of the law in -Javisv. Gray, 16 Wall. 230.
Hoskins executed a deed to Brown, and forwarded it to Parkerson, to be held by him until all the notes of Hoskins given
for the purchase-money, still outstanding, were cancelled and
delivered to Parkerson. Parkerson was the recorder of the
parish where the land was situated. Brown then held ten of
the notes. He and Hoskins believed they were all. Upon
being advised by Tucker of the deposit of the deed, Brown
wrote to have a copy of it forwarded to him for examination,
and inquired, as he had done several times before, whether
Hoskins had in any way incumbered the property. Parkerson
thereupon sent him a copy of the deed, with a certificate,
signed himself as recorder, setting forth, that, upon examining
the records in his office, he found that "said Hoskins has not
subjected said property to any mortgage except as forfeited
taxes to the State."
There was an eleventh note, upon which, several years before, a judgment had been rendered in favor of Mrs. Knight.
The judgment had been so inscribed in the office of Parkerson,
that, under the law of Louisiana, it became a mortgage upon
the premises. The certificate was false, and Parkerson knew
it. It camnt be doubted that Tucker knew these facts alsti.
The inscription was, as it had been, concealed from Brown,
This was the beginning of the web of fraud woven by the ,onfederates. Brown, being satisfied with the deed, transmitted
the ten notes to Parkerson, with directions to cancel them, to
record the deed, and to send it to him by mail. Instead of
doing as directed, Parkerson handed over the letter and notes
to Tucker, withheld the deed from record, and retained posses-

CAREY ET AL. v

BROWN.

[Sup. Ct.

sion of it. Subsequently, Davis, the law partner of Tucker,
visited Hoskins in Texas, where he lived, delivered up his deed
to Brown, and procured from him a quitclaim-deed for the same
property to Parkerson and himself for the consideration of
$250.
Later, they gave Hoskins, voluntarily, a guaranty
against his liability upon all the outstanding notes. They
conveyed the premises to Carey, a brother-in-law of Parkerson.
Carey claims to have been a bona fide purchaser, without any
notice of the rights of Brown. In order to strengthen his
title, he took measures to have the premises sold under the
judgment in favor of Mrs. Knight. Upon learning the existence of the judgment, Brown offered twice to furnish to Carey
the means to discharge it. The money was refused. The
property was sold under the judgment, and bought in by Carey.
lie paid the judgment and the costs. The balance of his bid,
upon which the property was struck off to him by the sheriff,
remained in his hands unpaid, and unaccounted for to any one.
Public notice was given at the sale of the claim of Brown.
Thereafter Carey claimed to hold under the sale, as well as
under the deed from Parkerson and Davis.
It is not denied that Parkerson and Davis had full knowledge
of all the facts touching the conveyance by Hoskins to Brown
when they received the deed from Hoskins to them; and the
evidence, both direct and circumstantial, is plenary to show
that Carey, before Davis and Parkerson conveyed to him, was
equally well advised. It is impossible to resist the conviction
that there was a deliberate scheme; that all the appellants and
Tucker were parties to it, and that every act of each of the
Confederates touching the property, after the deposit of the deed
to Brown with Parkerson, was done to give effect to the purpose of the conspiracy.
In the presence of these facts, the doctrine of conditions preced nt can have no application. Sterner principles intervene,
and become factors in the determination of the case.
The court decreed that the deed of Hoskins to Brown was,
as against the subsequent deed of Hoskins to Parkerson and
Davis, a valid subsisting title; that the deed of Parkerson and
Davis to Carey was void, and of no effect; that the ten notes
should be delivered up by Tucker, and cancelled; that Brown

Oct. 1875.]

CAREY ET AL.

v.

BROWN.

should pay to Carey the amount Carey had paid in satisfaction
of the judgment; that, upon such payment being made, Carey
should convey the property to Brown as trustee for those whom
Brown represented in the litigation; and that the decree should
be without prejudice to Brown's claims for mesne profits, and
to Tucker's claim against Brown for professional services.
It is said the decree is erroneous because it did not ascertain
the amount proper to be allowed to Tucker, and order its payment.
It was not proper to deal with that subject in this suit.
Tucker had no lien either upon the notes or the land. Not
having appealed from the decree below, he cannot object to it
here.
It is said, also, that the decree is erroneous as to the effect of
the deed from Hoskins to Brown. Upon the delivery of the
ten notes to Parkerson, the deed became effectual. He should
have cancelled the notes, and put the deed on record.
The lien of the judgment was ample for the security and indemnity of Hoskins. Brown would have taken the title subject to the incumbrance. The light thrown backward by the
subsequent events shows that he would have been ready and
willing to satisfy the judgment whenever its existence was
made known to him.
He was prevented from discharging the lien by the fraud of
those who now seek to avail themselves of it. This they cannot be permitted to do.
It is insisted that the decree does injustice to Carey. It gave
him all he was entitled to. He acquired whatever title he had
ex mnalefieo, and held it as a trustee in invitum for Brown and
his ce8tuis que trust. Mongar v. Shirley, not yet reported.
A case of clearer equity on one side, and of iniquity on the
other, is rarely presented for the consideration of a court of
justice.
Decree affirmed.

