Oct. 1875.]

RECKENDORFER

v.

FABER.

The legal title being in the United States, the Statute of
Limitations raises no bar to the action. Mere possession of
the land, though open, exclusive, and uninterrupted for twenty
years, creates no impediment to a recovery by the government,
and of course none to a recovery by one who within that period
receives its conveyance. In Burgess v. Gray, 16 How. 48, the
plaintiff and those through whom he claimed had been in possession of the land, for which the action was brought, for more
than half a century ; and, among other grounds, he relied upon
this long-continued possession to recover against defendants,
who had entered under title derived from the United States.
But the court said, "The mere possession of public land without title will not enable the party to maintain a suit against
any one who enters on it; and, more especially, he cannot
maintain it against persons holding possession under title
derived from the proper officers of the government. He must
first show a right in himself before he can call into question
the validity of theirs." The second instruction was, therefore,
properly refused.
Judgment affirmed.

RECKENDORFER V. FA3BER.
1. The decision of the Commissioner of Patents in the allowance and issue of a
patent creates a primafacie right only; and, upon all the questions involved
therein, the validity of the patent is subject to examination by the courts.
2. A combination, to be patentable, must produce a different force, effect, or
result in the combined forces or processes from that given by their separate
parts. There must be a new result producedby their union; otherwise it is
only an aggregation of separate elements.
S. A combination, therefore, which consists only of the application of a piece of
rubber to one end of the same piece of wood which makes a lead-pencil is
not patentable.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
31r. Charles .F. Blake and Mr. Edmund Wetmore for the
appellant.
Mr. John S. Washburm and Hr. George G-ifford for the am.
pellee.

RECKENDORFER V. F BER.

[Sup. Ct.

MR. JUSTICE HuxT delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a decree of the United States Circuit
Court for the Southern District of New York, dismissing the
bill of complaint, which was filed to restrain the infringement
by the respondent of certain letters-patent, and for an accounting and damages.
These patents relate to the manufacture of combined pencils
and erasers.
1. The first was granted to Hymen L. Lipman, March 30,
1858 ; and was extended for a farther term of seven years from
the 80th of March, 1872.
The material parts of the specification are as follows : "I make a lead-pencil in the usual manner, reserving about onefourth of the length, in which I make a groove of suitable size, A,
and insert in this groove a piece of prepared india-rubber (or other
erasive substance), secured to said pencil by being glued at one
edge. The pencil is then finished in the usual manner; so that,
on cutting one end thereof, you have the lead, B, and on cutting
at the other end you expose a small piece of india-rubber, , ready
for use, and particularly valuable for removing or erasing lines,
figures, &c., and not subject to be soiled, or mislaid on the table
or desk.
"In making mathemathical, architectural, and many other kinds
of drawings, in which the lines are very near each other, the eraser
is particularly useful, as it may be sharpened to a point to erase
any marks between the lines ; and, should the point of the rubber
become soiled or inoperative from any cause, such cause is easily
removed by a renewed sharpening, as in the ordinary lead-pencil."
The claim is as follows: "I do not claim the use of a lead-pencil with a piece of indiarubber, or other erasing material, attached at one end for the purpose of erasing marks ; but what I do claim as my invention, and
desire to secure by letters-patent, is the combination of the lead
and india-rubber, or other erasing substance, in the holder of a
drawing-pencil, the whole being constructed and arranged substantially in the manner and for the purposes set forth."
The drawings forming part of the specification exhibit a continuous sheath of uniform size, with interior grooves of different
sizes, the eraser groove being larger than the lead groove.

Oct. 1875.]

RECKENDORFER v. FABER.

2. The second patent is for an improvement upon the invention of Lipman, and was granted to Joseph Reckendorfer, the
complainant, the 4th of November, 1862, and reissued on the
1st of March, 1872.
The material parts of the specification are as follows: "My invention is intended to provide a means whereby articles
of greater size or diameter than the lead may be securely held in
the head of a pencil of otherwise ordinary or suitable construction,
without making the body of the pencil cumbrous or inconvenient.
To this end, my invention consists, ".ibst, Of a pencil composed of a wooden sheath and lead core,
laving one end of the sheath enlarged and recessed to constitute a
receptacle for an eraser or other similar article, as hereinafter
stated.
"Second, Of a pencil, the wooden case of which gradually tapers
from the enlarged and recessed head towards its opposite end for
the whole or a portion of the length, as hereinafter set forth.
"The receptacle for the eraser or other article is formed in the
head, without too much weakening the wood, owing to the form
of the sheath; while, for the same reason, the end of the pencil
which contains the ordinary lead is not cumbrous nor clumsy, but
can be readily held between the fingers, just as an ordinary pencil is."
Having thus described his invention, Reckendorfer claims,1Ist, A pencil composed of a wooden sheath and lead core, having one end of the sheath enlarged and recessed to constitute a
receptacle for an eraser, or other similar article, as shown and set
forth.
"2d, A pencil, the wooden case of which gradually tapers fiom
its enlarged and recessed head towards its opposite end for the
whole or a portion of its length, substantially as shown and described."
The points we propose here to discuss axe two :
First, Is the article patented by the plaintiff and his assignor,
and for the infringement of which patents this action is brought,
a patentable invention within the laws of the United States?
Second, Is it within the power of the courts to examine and
determine this question ? or is the decision of the Commissioner
of Patents, when, by issuing a patent, he decides that the invention is patentable, final and conclusive on the point?

RECKENDORFER V. FABER.

[Sup. Ot,

The plaintiff contends that the decision of the commissioner
is conclusive upon the point of invention; and that the question,
as distinct from that of want of novelty, is one not open to the
judgment of the court. In the natural order of things, this
question is the first one to be examined; for, if it shall appear that the contention of the plaintiff is correct in this
P respect, the question in regard to the patentability of the instrument now before us will not arise. The point will have
been decided for us, and by a controlling authority.
The "act to revise, consolidate, and amend the statutes relating to patents and copyrights," passed July 4, 1836 (5 U. S.
Stat. 118), is the act regulating this case.
By the sixth section thereof it is enacted, "that any person
having invented or devised any new and useful art, machine,
manufacture, or composition of matter, not known or used by
others before his invention or discovery thereof, and not at the
time of his application for a patent in public use, or on sale
with his consent or allowance as the inventor or discoverer,
and shall desire to obtain an exclusive property therein, may
make application in writing to the commissioner, expressing
such desire; and the commissioner, on due proceedings had,
may grant a patent therefor. . . . He shall make oath that he
believes himself to be the first inventor or discoverer thereof,
and that he does not know or believe that the same has ever
before been used."
Looking at this section alone, it may be safely said no one
is entitled to a patent unless (1) he has discovered or invented
an art, machine, or manufacture; (2) which art, machine, or
manufacture, is new; (3) which is also useful; (4) which is
not known or patented as therein mentioned. It is not sufficient that it is alleged or supposed, or even adjudged, by some
officer, to possess these requisites. It must, in fact, possess them;
and that it does possess them the claimant must be prepared to
establish in the mode in which all other claims are established;
to wit, before the judicial tribunals of the country.
The seventh section of the act (p. 120) provides, that on
the filing of any such application, &c., and the payment of the
duty required by law, the commissioner shall make, or cause
to be made, an examination of the alleged new invention or

Oct. 1875.]

RECKENDORFER

&. FABER.

discovery; and if, on such examination, it shall not appear to
the commissioner that the same has been invented or discovered by any other person in this country prior to the alleged discovery, or patented or described in any foreign publication, or
been in public use or on sale with the consent of the applicant,
and if he shall be of the opinion that the same is sufficiently
useful and important, the commissioner shall issue a patent
therefor.
Before the commissioner is authorized to issue a patent, it
must appear to him that the claimant is justly entitled to a
patent; i.e., that his art, machine, or manufacture, possesses
all the qualities before mentioned. The commissioner must
also be satisfied, that, if it possesses these qualities, it is sufficiently useful and sufficiently important to justify him in investing it with the primafacierespect arising from the governmental
approval. These restrictions are wise and prudent; are intended to secure at least a probable advantage to those who
deal with the favorites of the government; for they may justly
be so termed who receive the exclusive right of making or
using or vending particular arts or improvements.
It is nowhere declared in the statute that the decision of the
commissioner, as to the extent of the utility or importance of
the improvement, shall be conclusive upon that point; but, in the
section just quoted, it is placed in the same category with the
want of novelty and the other requisites of the statute; and it is
expressly conceded by the appellant that the judgment of the
commissioner on the question of novelty is not conclusive, but
that that point is open to examination. On that subject the
practice of the courts is uniform in holding it to be subject to
inquiry.
The plaintiff's counsel, in his brief, put his argument in this
form: "The commissioner, then, passes on these questions: (1.)
Did the applicant himself make the invention? This question
is settled by his oath." This is true to the extent and for the
purpose of issuing a patent, and to this extent only. When the
patentee seeks to enforce his patent, he is liable to be defeated
by proof that he did not make the invention. The judgment
of the commissioner does not protect him against the effect of
such evidence. (2.) The counsel says, "Was the invention

RECKENDORFER

v.

FABER.

[Sup. Ot.

new? This question is solved by the examination required
by the act." To the same extent only. The defence of -want
of novelty is set up every day in the courts, and is determined
by the court or the jury as a question of fact upon the evidence
adduced, and not upon the certificate of the commissioner.
(3.) The counsel says again, "Is the invention sufficiently
useful and important? This the commissioner settles for
himself by the use of his own judgment. It is a question of
official judgment." These questions are all questions of official
judgment, and are all settled by the judgment of the commissioner. His judgment goes to the same extent upon each
question. He determines and decides for the purpose of
issuing or refusing a patent. When the patent is sought to be
enforced, the questions, and each of them, are open to judicial
examination. We see many reasons why all the questions of
invention, novelty, and prior use, should be open to examination
in each case; and such we believe to be the course of the
authorities, aid practice of the courts.
A reference to some of the most recent cases, and to those
decided by this court, will be sufficient. A review of all the
cases in this court, and the various circuit courts where this
question has been alluded to, will not be profitable.
In H7otchTicss v. Greenwood, 11 How. 248, a patent had been
granted for a "new and useful improvement in making door
and other knobs, of all kinds of clay used in pottery and of
porcelain," by having the cavity in which the screw, or shank,
is inserted, by which they are fastened, largest at the bottom
of its depth, in form of a dovetail, and a screw formed therein
by pouring in metal in a fused state. The precise question
argued in this court and decided was of the patentability of this
invention, and it was held not to be patentable. The only thing
claimed as new was the substitution of a knob made of clay
or porcelain for one made of wood. This, it was said, might be
cheaper or better; but it was not the subject of a patent. The
counsel for the defendants, in their points, there say, "The
court now is called upon to decide whether this patent can be
sustained for applying a well-known material to a use to which
it had not before been applied, without any new mode of using
the material, or any new mode of manufacturing the article

out. 1875.j

RECKENDORFER V. FABER.

sought to be covered by the patent." Mr. Justice Nelson
delivered the opinion of the court to the effect already stated.
Mr. Justice Woodbury dissented, not upon the question of the
power of the court to pass upon the validity of the patent, but
rather in regard to the manner in which the facts were subinitted to the jury.
In Stbnpson,v. Hardman, 10 Wall. 117, it was decided that
the engraving or stamping of the figure upon the surface of a
roller for pebbling leather by pressure, where the use previously
had been of a smooth roller, required no invention; that it was
a change involving mechanical skill merely, and not patentable.
Mr. Justice Clifford dissented from the majority of the court,
but expressly says that the question of patentability is for
the decision of the jury, and not for the court, upon a bill of
exceptions. The majority of the court held that the question
could be considered upon a billof exceptions; and no one claimed
that the decision of the commissioner concluded the question.
In llailes v. Van WFormer, 20 Wall. 353, the question of the
patentability of certain improvements in stoves was largely
discussed in this court upon appeal from the Circuit Court for
the Northern District of New York. It was held, that, if a new
combination produces new and useful results, it is patentable,
though all the constituents of the combination were known and
in use previous to the combination; but the results must be
the product of the combination, not a mere aggregate of several
results, each the complete product of one of the combined
elements. It was held that the facts there present did not
create a compliance with this principle; and the judgment, that
the plaintiff's bill be dismissed, was affirmed.
In Rubber Tip Pencil Co.v. Howard, 20 Wall. 498, the same
principle was affirmed. In delivering the opinion, the Chief
Justice says, "The question which naturally presents itself for
consideration at the outset of this inquiry is, whether the new
article of manufacture claimed as an invention was patentable
as such: if not, there is an end of the case, and we need not
go farther." He makes a careful examination of the claim, and
concludes that there is nothing patentable in the character of
the invention. The decree of the court below dismissing the
bill was unanimously affirmed upon that ground.
VOL. 1x.

23

RECKENDORFER

V. FABER.

[Sup. 0t.

In Smith v. Nichols, 21 Wall. 115, an elaborate opinion to
this same effect was delivered by Mr. Justice Swayne, and
concurred in unanimously by the court. The only question
discussed is the patentability of the invention.
Hicks v. Kelsey, 18 Wall. 670, is a similar case. To this
rule, the case of Lyman v. Osborne, 11 Wall. 516, cited by the
defendant, is no exception. The remarks there made are
chiefly upon the subject of reissues, and axe in accordance with
the principles above set forth. Even as to reissues, their conclusiveness is limited to questions of fact, and is accompanied
by the statement that they are re-examinable in court, when it
is apparent upon the face of the patent that the commissioner
has exceeded his authority, or there is such a repugnance between the old and the new patent that it mast be held as a
matter of legal construction that the new patent is not for the
same invention as that embraced and secured in the original
patent. Pp. 543, 544.
We do not attach much significance to the fact that the
fifteenth section of the act of 1836 allows the defendant to
plead the general issue, and to give in evidence, upon thirty
days' notice, special matter tending to prove the various
matters therein referred to. The statute in that respect was
intended to create an easy system of pleading, and to relieve
from any doubt the admissibility in that form of the defences
specified. The argument, that because permission is given to
prove under the general issue, that the specification does not
contain the whole truth, or that it intentionally and deceitfully
contains too much, or that the patentee was not the first discoverer, or that it had been in prior use, it follows that proof
that there is no invention or discovery at all, or that the invention has no importance, cannot be made, is quite unsound.
Proof that there is no invention or discovery strikes at the root
of the whole claim. The patent is based on an affirmative
fact, of which this is the direct negative. It needed no statute
to aid or justify this defence. It is provable when it exists under
any general denial, like the fact of not guilty or non-assumpsit
in cases where guilt or a promise is first to be established.
Upon the proposition that the decision of the commissioner
on-the question of invention, its utility and importance, is con-

Oct. 1875.]

RECKENDORFER V. FABER.

elusive, and that the same is not open to examination in the
courts, we are unanimously of the opinion that the proposition
is unsound. His decision in the allowance and issue of a
patent creates a primafacie right only; and, upon all the questions involved therein, the validity of the patent is subject to
an examination by the courts.
We come, then, to the questions, Does the article patented
by Lipman, and improved by Reckendorfer, involve an invenlion ? or is it a product of mechanical skill or a construction of
convenience only?
The article presented is for the performance of mechanical
operations, to produce mechanical results, and is a mechanical
instrument as much as a brush, a pen, a stamp, a knife, a file,
or a screw. Whether it is styled a manufacture, a tool, or a
machine, it is an instrument intended to produce a useful
mechanical result; and the question presents itself, Does it
embody any new device, or any combination of devices producing a new result?
In the first place, what is not claimed by the specification of
Lipman is to be observed. "I do not claim," he says, "the use
of a lead-pencil with a piece of rubber attached at one end."
Of course he does not claim a lead-pencil as his invention, nor
the use of a strip of india-rubber for erasure. Each of these
articles had been in long and general use. But he claims as
his invention "the combination of the lead and india-rubber
in the holder of a drawing-pencil," in the manner set forth.
There is nothing peculiar in the manner set forth. The claim
is simply of the combination of the lead and india-rubber in
the holder of a drawing-pencil; in other words, the use of an
ordinary lead-pencil, in one end of which, and for about onefourth of its length, is inserted a strip of india-rubber, glued
to one side of the pencil. The pencil is to be made in the
"usual manner:" i.e., he takes an ordinary lead-pencil, and in
this he makes "a groove of suitable size," giving no idea of
wlmt he deems a suitable size; and in this groove he inserts a
piece of prepared india-rubber, which is glued to one edge of
the pencil. "The pencil is then finished in the usual manner;
so that, in cutting one end thereof, you have the lead, B, and on
cutting the other end you expose a small piece of india-rubber,

RECKENDORFER v. FABER.

[Sup. Ct.

C, ieady for use." It is evident that this manner of making
or applying the instrument gives no aid to the patent. It must
rest where the patentee claims to place it; that is, on the combination.
This combination consists only of the application of a piece
of rubber to one end of the same piece of wood which makes a
lead-pencil. It is as if a patent should be granted for an article, or a manufacture as the patentee prefers to term it, consisting of a stick twelve inches long, on one end of which is an
ordinary hammer, and on the other end is a screw-driver or a
tack-drawer, or, what you will see in use in every retail shop,
a lead-pencil, on one end of which is a steel pen. It is the case
of a garden rake, on the handle end of which should be placed
a hoe, or on the other side of the same end of which should be
placed a hoe. In all these cases there might be the advantage
of carrying about one instrument instead of two, or of avoiding
the liability to loss or misplacing of separate tools. The instr-uments placed upon the same rod might be more convenient for
use than when used separately. Each, however, continues to
perform its own duty, and nothing else. No effect is produced,
no result follows, from the joint use of the two.
A handle in common, a joint handle, does not create a new
or combined operation. The handle for the pencil does not
create or aid the handle for the eraser. The handle for the
eraser does not create or aid the handle for the pencil. Each
has and each requires a handle the same as it had and required,
without reference to what is at the other end of the instrument;
and the operation of the handle of and for each is precisely the
same, whether the new article is or is not at the other end of
it. In thisL and the cases supposed you have but a rake, a hoe,
a hammer, a pencil, or an eraser, when you are done. The law
requires more than a change of form, or juxtaposition of parts,
or of the external arrangement of things, or of the order in
which they are used, to give patentability. Curtis on Pat.,
sect. 50 ; ifailes v. Van Wormer, 20 Wall. 353. A double use
is not patentable, nor does its cheapness make it so. Curtis,
sects. 56, 73. An instrument or manufacture which is the
result of mechanical skill merely is not patentable. Mechanical skill is one thing; invention is a different thing. Per-

Oct. 1875.]

RECKENDORFER V. FABER.

fection of workmanship, however much it may increase the
convenience, extend the use, or diminish expense, is not
patentable. The distinction between mechanical skill, with
its conveniences and advantages and inventive genius, is recognized in all the cases. Rubber Tip Pencil Co. v. Howard, and
other cases, supra; Curtis, sect. 72 b.
The combination, to be patentable, must produce a different
force or effect, or result in the combined forces or processes, from
that given by their separate parts. There must be a new result
produced by their union: if not so, it is only an aggregation
of separate elements. An instance and an illustration are found
in the discovery, that, by the use of sulphur mixed with indiarubber, the rubber could be vulcanized, and that without this
agent the rubber could not be vulcanized. The combination of
the two produced a result or an article entirely different from that
before in use. Another illustration may be found in the frame
in a saw-mill which advances the log regularly to meet the saw,
and the saw which saws the log; the two co-operate and are
simultaneous in their joint action of sawing through the whole
log: or in the sewing-machine, where one part advances the
cloth, and another part forms the stitches, the action being
simultaneous in carrying on a continuous sewing. A stemwinding watch-key is another instance. The office of the stem
is to hold the watch, or hang the chain to the watch: the office
of the key is to wind it. When the stem is made the key, the
joint duty of holding the chain and winding the watch is performed by the same instrument. A double effect is produced
or a double duty performed by the combined result. In these
and numerous like cases the parts co-operate in producing the
final effect, sometimes simultaneously, sometimes successively.
The result comes from the combined effect of the several parts,
not simply from the separate action of each, and is, therefore,
patentable.
In the case we are considering, the parts claimed to make
a combination are distinct and disconnected. Not only is
there no new result, but no joint opeiation. When the lead is
used, it performs the same operation and in the same manner
as it would do if there were no rubber at the other end of the
pencil: when the rubber is used, it is in the same manner

I

POTTS ET AL. V. CHU1TIASERO ET AL.

[Sup. Ct

and performs the same duty as if the lead were not in the same
pencil. A pencil is laid down and a rubber is taken up, the one
to write, the other to erase : a pencil is turned over to erase
with, or an eraser is turned over to write with. The principle
is the same in both instances. It may be more convenient to
have the two instruments on one rod than on two. There may
be a security against the absence of the tools of an artist or
mechanic from the fact, that, the greater the number, the greater
the danger of loss. It may be more convenient to turn over
the different ends of the same stick than to lay down one stick
and take up another. This, however, is not invention within
the patent law, as the authorities cited fully show. There is
no relation between the instruments in the performance of their
several functions, and no reciprocal action, no parts used in
common.
We are of the opinion, that, for the reasons given, neither the
patent of Lipman nor the improvement of Becikendorfer can
be sustained, and that the judgment of the Circuit Court
dismissing the bill must be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STRO.C\G dissenting.

I dissent from so much of the opinion of the majority of the
court as holds that the instrument or manufacture described
in the patents exhibits no sufficient invention to warrant the
grant of a patent for it.
MRi. JUSTICE DAVIS and MIR. JUSTICE BRADLEY also dis-

sented.
POTTS ET AL. V.

Hn-UMASERO BtT AL.

Writs of error and appeals lie to this court from the Supreme court of the Territory of Montana only in cases where the value of the property or the amount
in controversy exceeds the sum of one thousand dollars, and from decisions
upon writs of habeas corpus involving the question of personal freedom. Rev.
Stat., sect. 1909.

to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Montana.
Sect. I of an act of the legislature of the Territory of Montana, approved Feb. 11, 1874 (Laws of Montana, 8th sess.,
1874, p. 43), provides, ERROR

