IVEs E

AL. v. HAMILTON, EXECUTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Arapahoe County, and made the required application to the
attorney for a deed, within three months, was to have such a
deed with covenants of warranty, on the payment of a merely
nominal consideration; but he insists that the attorney exceeded the power conferred, because the deeds do not bear
date within three months from the date of the bond. Our
views upon that subject have already been expressed; and we
have only to repeat, that the limitation applies to the time of
making the application and demand, and not to the time in
which the deed was to be executed and delivered, if it was
executed within a reasonable time after the adjudication by
the attorney.
Examined in the light of the pleadings, and the facts and circumstances exhibited in the record, it is clear that the charge
of fraud is not sustained, and that the burden of proof is upon
the complainant to prove the allegation that the deeds of conveyance are invalid for any reason not apparent on their face;
and if so, then it is equally clear that there is no error in the

record.

-Decree affirned.

IVES ET AL.

v. HAmLToN, EXECUTOR.

1. Where an improvement in sawmills, for which letters-patent were issued, consists of the combination of the saw with a pair of curved guides at the upper
end of the saw, and a lever, connecting-rod or pitman, straight guides, pivoted cross-head, and slides or blocks and crank-pin, or their equivalents, at
the opposite end, whereby the toothed edge of the saw is caused to move
unequally forward and backward at its two endswhile cutting, and the claim
is, "giving to the saw in its downward movement a rocking or rolling
motion by means of the combination of the cross-head working in the curved
guides at the upper end of the saw, the lower end of which is attached to
a cross-head, working in straight guides and pivoted to the pitman below
the saw, with the crank-pin substantially as described," the use by another party of guides consisting of two straight lines representing two consecutive cords of the curve of the guides of the patentee, and arranged in
other respects in the same manner as this curve, is clearly the employment
of a mechanical equivalent, and is an infringement of the patent.
2. It is not a change in principle to pivot the lower end of the saw to the pitman below the cross-head, and, by a reverse motion of the crank or drivingwheel, produce the same motion of the saw as when the pitman is pivoted
above the cross-head.
3. The description in a patent for an improvement is sufficient if a practical
mechanic, acquainted with the construction of the old machine in which the

Oct. 1875.]

IvEs

.ET AL. V. HAMILTON, EXECUTOR.

improvement is made, can, with the patent and diagram before him, adopt
such improvement.
4. The essence of the improvement does not consist in the precise position in
which any part is placed, but in a combination of mechanical means for
producing a certain result.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Michigan.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
itlr. Charles J. Hunt for the plaintiffs in error.
It is the duty of the court to construe the claim of a patent,
dnd to decide as to its ambiguity; to render it certain, and to
point out what it is. -Emersonv. Hogg, 2 Blatchf. 1; Hogg v.
Emerson, 11 How. 587; Washburn v. Gould, 3 Story, 123.
When the claim is for a result in terms, produced by a combination substantially as described, it is a claim of the described
means, or rather of the particular organization and devices
described, by means of which the specified result is produced.
Seymour v. Osborne, 8 Fish. 555; Seymour v. Osborne, 11 Wall.
516 ; Burden v. Corning, 2 Fish. 474 (489) ; Leroy v. Tatham,
14 How. 156; O'Reilly v. Mforse, 15 id. 62; Corning et al. v.
Burden, id. 252; 11itchell v. Tilghman, 19 Wall. 287, 391.
In the construction of a patent, the whole instrument, embracing the specification and drawings, is to be taken together;
and if from this the exact nature and extent of the claim, made
by the inventor, can be perceived, the court is bound to give it
full effect. Parker v. Styles, 5 MeL. 44; Hogg v. Emerson,
supra; Union Sugar Refinery v. Mathieson, 2 Fish. 600.
The patentee cannot be allowed to prove that any part of
the combination is immaterial or useless. VFance v. Campbell,
1 Black, 428; Gill v. Wells, 6 Pat. Off. Gaz. 881 (885).
The combination is an entirety. If one of the ingredients be
given up, the thing claimed disappears. Vance v. Campbell,
supra; Gill v. Wells, supra.
If an ingredient substituted for one of the ingredients in a
combination is new, or performs substantially a different function, it is no infringement. Roberts v. Harden, 2 Cliff. 504;
Gill v. Wells, supra; Turrell v. -llinois Central B.11. Co.,

3 Fish. 330.
The inventor of a combination, in improving old machines,

IVES ET AL. V. HAMILTON, EXECUTOR.

[Sup. Ot.

cannot invoke the doctrine of equivalents to suppress other
improvements which axe not merely colorable invasions of the
first. 3McCormick v. Talcott, 20 How. 402, 405; Burden v.
(!orning, 2 Fish. supra.
3Ir. .T Z. Wells and Mr. John H. B. Latrobe for the defendant in error.
The true distinction under the patent law between a mere
process or effect and a certain mechanical combination, or an
improvement on an old machine by which a process or effect is
produced, is well settled. Blanchardv. Sprague, 3 Sumn. 635;
Corning et al. v. Burden, 15 How. 252; Seymour v. Osborne, 11
Wall. 516.
The patentee is only required to describe his invention with
such certainty and particulaxity as to distinguish it from all
others, and to enable one, skilled in the art of which it is a
branch, to construct and use it. Teese v. Phelps, McAll. 48;
Allen v. Hunter,6 McL. 803; Judson v. ioore, 1 Fish. Pat. Cas.
544; Grayv. James,1 Pet. 0. C. 894; Brookesv. Bicknall,3 MeL.
250; Treadwellv. Parott,5 Blatchf. C. 0. 369; Singer v. Walmsley, 1 Fish. Pat. Cas. 558; Nowry v. Whitney, 14 Wall. 620.
There is no'pretence whatever that Hamilton did not conform to this requirement in his specifications; and they are to
be construed in the sense in which the common knowledge of
persons skilled in the axt would understand them. Winans v.
.Denmead, 15 How. 341; Klein v. Bussel, 19 Wall. 433; Carver v. Braintree Manuf. Co., 2 Story, 432-440; Seymour v. Osborne, 11 Wall. 516.
To constitute an infringement, it is not necessary that the
two inventions should be identical. The question is, Were
the means used substantially the same? Alden v. -Dewey,
1 Story, 336; Boot v. Ball & Davis, 4 McL. 180; Parker v.
Haworth, id. 374; Burr v. Duryea, 1 Wall. 573.
The introduction of a mechanical equivalent does not relieve
from the charge of infringement. Tompkins v. Gage, 5 Blatchf.
C. C. 268; Taylor v. Garretson, 9 id. 156; Conover v. Roads,
4 Fish. Pat. Cas. 12; Carterv. Baker, id. 404; Could v. Bees,
15 Wall. 187.
One machine is the same in substance as another if the principle be the same in effect, though the form of the machine be

Oct. 1875.]

IvEs

ET I.

v. HAmLToN, EXECUTOR.

different. Brooke v. Hermance, 1 Blatchf. C. C. 398; Parkhurst
v. Kinsman, id. 497; Blanchard v. Beers, 2 id. 418.
The rule in regard to what constitutes an infringement is laid
down in Curt. on Pat., sect. 82, and is quoted by this court in
Burr v. Duryea, 1 Wall. 531-573.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action brought to recover damages for the infringement of certain letters-patent granted to Hamilton, the
plaintiff below, for an improvement in sawmills. The defendants pleaded the general issue, with notice of special matter,
setting up several prior inventions, amongst others that of one
Isaac Straub. The plaintiff's patent was dated the fifth day
of December, 1865. His improvement, as described therein,
consisted of the combination of the saw with a pair of curved
guides at the upper end of the saw, and a lever, connecting-rod
or pitman, straight guides, pivoted cross-head, and slides or
blocks and crank-pin, or their equivalents, at the opposite end,
whereby the toothed edge of the saw is caused to move unequally forward and backward at its two ends while cutting.
His claim is, "giving to the saw in its downward movement a
rocking or rolling motion, by means of the combination of the
cross-head working in the curved guides at the upper end of
the saw, the lower end of which is attached to a cross-head,
working in straight guides and pivoted to the pitman below
the saw, with the crank-pin, substantially as described."
The old method of guiding a saw in its upward and downward movement was to cause the two ends of the cross-head, to
which the upper end was attached, to slide in straight grooves,
or guides. The lower end of the saw was guided in the same
manner, and to the lower cross-head was attached by a pivot
the lever, or pitman, worked by the crank of the driving-wheel.
This arrangement gave the saw a straight and uniform motion,
up and down, between the guide-posts of the frame in which it
worked, either perpendicular or at a slight inclination, according to the position of the guide-posts.
In Hamilton's improvement the guiding grooves for the upper
end of the saw are curved, with the concave part of the curve
turned towards the approaching log, so that, as the saw descends,
AIR. JUSTICE BRADLEY

IVES ET AL. V. HAMILTON, ExECuTOR.

[Sup. 0t.

the top part at first retreats before-the log, and afterwards moves
up towards it at the same time that the bottom part is moved
back and forth in just the opposite directions by being attached
to the pitman above the cross-head; the combined motions thus
giving to the whole saw a kind of rocking or vibratory movement, by which the teeth take the most advantageous bite into
the log, and all of them perform their proportional part of the
work. The result is something like that produced by two men
working a saw in a saw-pit.
The defendant is using a saw in which the guides are not
curved, it is true; but they each consist of two straight lines
that represent two consecutive cords of the curve in Hamilton's
guides, and are arranged in other respects in the same manner
as this curve; namely, having the interior angle, like the concave side of the curve, turned towards the approaching log,
the effect being exactly the same. He also connects the lower
end of his saw to the pitman below the cross-head, instead of
above it; but by reversing the motion of his crank, or drivingwheel, he produces exactly the same combination of movements
as those produced by Hamilton, the one being the exact equivalent of the other; and, if Hamilton's patent was for the result,
the infringement would be so perfect as to amount to a mere
copy of the invention. But Hamilton does not claim the result.
He could not do it; for, as he says, the same result was effected
by two men when sawing in a pit. His claim is, "giving to the
saw in its downward movement a rocking or rolling motion by
means of the combination," &c.; that is, not the rocking motion itself, but the means devised by him for producing it.
The question in the case, therefore, is, whether the defendants
use the same or equivalent means; that is, the same, or substantially the same, combination of mechanical devices.
The substitution of guides at the top, made crooked by a
broken line instead of a curved line, is too transparent an imitation to need a moment's consideration. A curve itself is
often treated, even in mathematical science, as consisting of a
succession of very short straight lines, or as one broken line,
constantly changing its direction; and many beautiful theorems
were evolved by the early mathematicians on this hypothesis.
-At all -events, in mechanics, when, as in this case, a broken

Oct. 1875.]

IVES ET AL.

V. HAIILTON, EXECUTOR.

431

line is used instead of a regular curve, being deflected at one or
more points by a very slight angle, and performing precisely
the same office as a curve similarly situated, the one is clearly
the equivalent of the other.
The attaching of the lower end of the saw to the pitman
below the cross-head instead of above it, and thereby getting"
the same movement as before by reversing the motion of the
crank, is no change in principle. This is too obvious for
discussion.
The combination of the two things in the defendants' millnamely, the crooked guides above, and the connection of the
saw with the pitman below at a point removed from its centre
of motion (both being calculated to give to the saw the precise
rocking or vibratory motion desired) - is a close copy of the
plaintiff's invention; quite as close as is usually made by those
'who attempt to evade a patent whilst they seek to use the substance of the invention.
The defendants insist, however, that Hamilton's patent is
defective for not clearly describing the position, perpendicular
or otherwise, in which the curved guides should be placed; and
that, if any required position can be inferred from the patent, it
is a perpendicular one, whilst the guides of the defendants' saw
are inclined at a slight angle to the perpendicular. As to the
alleged defect of the patent, there is nothing in the objection.
The invention claimed is an improvement on an old machine,
and it is properly taken for granted that the practical mechanic
is acquainted with the construction of the machine in which
the improvement is made; and nothing appears in the case to
show that any peculiar position different from that of sawmills
constructed in the ordinary way is necessary to render it
effective and useful. The essence of the improvement has
nothing to do with the precise position of the guides. It is a
combination of mechanical means to produce a rocking motion
of the saw; and this combination is just as applicable to
guides that have a slight inclination as to guides that are perpendicular. We think that there is no ground for either
branch of the objection. The description in the patent is
sufficiently specific; and the inclination of the defendants'
guides cannot exempt them from the charge of infringement.

432

THE "1AimcA."

[Sup. Ct.

The complaint made by the defendants, that the patent is
defective in not stating the nature of the curve for the guides,
whether that of a circle or of some other figure, in view of the
subject-matter of the improvement and of the diagrams annexed to the patent, are not sufficient to affect its validity.
Any good mechanic acquainted with the construction of sawmills, and having the patent and diagram before him, would
have no difficulty in adopting the improvement, and making
suitable curves.
The conclusions to which we have come are decisive of the
case. It is unnecessary to discuss in detail the different points
made at the trial, or the several instructions asked. We have
examined them all, and find nothing on which to base a judgment of reversal. If Straub's patent would have revealed any
thing to affect the validity of Hamilton's, the parties did not
see fit to spread it on the record; and therefore we have no
means of deciding that question.
Judgment affirmed.

THE "1ArRICA."
1. Where two vessels under steam, meeting end on, or nearly end on, neglect,
until it is too late to avoid a collision, to comply with the rule requiring
each to port her helm, it is no defence for either to prove that she ported

her helm before the collision actually occurred. The act of compliance must
be seasonable; otherwise it is without substantial merit.
2. In this case, as both vessels were in fault, the damages, and the costs in the

courts below, should be apportioned between them.

from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
Mr. B. D. Silliman for the appellants.
Air. W. B. Beebe, contra.
APPEAL

delivered the opinion of the court.
Sailing rules were ordained to prevent collisions between
ships employed in navigation, and to preserve life and property
embarked in that perilous pursuit, and not to enable those
whose duty it is to adopt, if possible, the necessary precautions
to avoid such a disaster, to determine how little they can do
AIR. JuSTICE CLTF]oID

