Oct. 1875.]

WILLIAMS ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

WILLIAM

ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

'The Board of Land Commissioners, under the act of March 3, 1851 (9 Stat. 631),
passed in 1865 a decree confirming a grant for all the land asked for in the
petition, which was acquiesced in until 1872, when a petition praying that the
estimate of quantity in the original petition be stricken out, and that the land
as now claimed be confirmed, was presented to the District Court, -Held, that
the claimants are without remedy under any act of Congress.

APPEAL from the District Court of the United States for
the District of California.
1r. -E. L. Goold for the appellants.
111r. Solicitor-General P27llips, contra.
MR. JusTicE CLOFFoRD delivered the opinion of the court.

Concessions or grants of land by Mexican governors were of
three kinds, described as follows: (1.) Grants or concessions
of land by specific boundaries, where the donee is entitled to
the entire tract within the given boundaries. (2.) Grants or
concessions by quantity, as of one or more leagues of land situate at some designated place, or within a larger tract described
by what are known as out-boundaries, where the donee is entitled to the quantity specified and no more; it being settled
law that boundaries given in such a case apply to the place
where the land granted is situated, and not to the grant or
concession to the donee. (3.) Grants or concessions of a certain
place or rancho by some particular name, either with or without specific boundaries being given, where the donee is entitled
to the tract within the boundaries, if given in the grant or concession ; and if not, then he is entitled to the tract to be located
and bounded as shown by the proofs of settlement and possession. Higueras v. United States, 5 Wall. 834.
Claimants to land in California by virtue of any right or title
derived from the former governments might present their claims
to the land commissioners; and it was made the duty of the
commissioners, when the case was ready for hearing, to proceed
to examine the same, and to decide upon its merits. 9 Stat. 632.
Pursuant to that act, the claimants in this case, on the 17th
of February, 1852, presented their petition to the commissioners appointed under that act, asking, in effect, for coufirmatioD

WILLIAIS ET AL. V.

UNITED Sf'ATES.

[Sup. Ct.

of the grant of land made to the original donee under whom
they claim, describing the same as "the tract of land known as
the Arroyo de la Laguna, situated on the coast of the designated
county," and alleging that "the quantity of the land in said
grant is one league." Three years later, the claimants, by
leave of the commissioners, filed an amended petition in the
case, in which they describe the claim as a certain piece of
land known as the Rancho Arroyo de la Laguna, containing
one square league, and situate in the county of Santa Cruz, in
said State, and being bounded as follows: On the south by the
Pacific Ocean, east by a stake about twenty yards from the
mouth of a stream known as the Arroyo de la Laguna, northerly
along the said stream to the mountains, westerly by the Arroyo
de San Vicente, and containing in the said boundaries one league
of land, as aforesaid.
Evidence, both oral and documentary, was subsequently introduced by the claimants in support of the claim of the petitioners, among which documents was the espediente, which
embraced the petition of the original donee, the disefio, the
order of reference, the inform6, the vista la petition,the concession, the approval of the departmental assembly, and the decree of the governor confirming the proceedings. These several
documents are given in the original language, with what purports to be a correct translation.
Concede that these several documents are genuine, and it
follows beyond doubt that the claim is valid, and one of merit.
All these evidences of title were submitted to the commissioners; and they, on the 10th of July, 1855, confirmed the grant,
describing the same as "the land known by the name of Arroyo
de la Laguna, situated in the county of Santa Cruz, of the extent of one league, provided the boundaries named contain that
quantity; but if not, then the confirmation is for so much as
may be embraced within the boundaries described as follows:
On the east by the Arroyo de la Laguna, on the south by the
sea, on the west by the Arroyo de San Vicente, and on the
north by the sierra, reference being had to the concession and
the diseflo contained in the espediente."
On the 11th of February, 1856, notice of appeal was given
by the Attorney-General; but on the 6th of October, in the

Oct. 167a.j

NVILIAMS ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

same year, the Attorney-General gave notice that the appeal
would not be prosecuted by the United States; and, on the
24th of December in the same year, a stipulation, signed
by the district-attorney, was filed in the case, dismissing the
appeal, and withdrawing the notice previously filed by the
Attorney-General, and granting leave to the claimants to pro.
ceed under the decree in their favor as under a final decree.
Pursuant to that stipulation, the District Court, on the same
day, entered a decree that the appeal in the case be dismissed,
and that the claimants have leave to proceed under the decree
in their favor as under a final decree. Whether they ever did
proceed under that decree to secure a patent does not appear,
unless the affirmative may be inferred from the long acquiescence of the claimants in that decree, and the order of the District Court made at the same time. Evidently the appeal on
the part of the United States was abandoned, and none was
ever taken by the claimants.
Fifteen years later -to wit, on the 27th of May, 1872the claimants filed a petition in the District Court, representing
that the land granted to the original donee was granted by its
name as a place, and that, in consequence of an error in translating one of the title papers in the case, the land described in
the petition to the commissioners was estimated as one league
in extent; and they pray that the estimate of quantity in that
petition may be stricken out, and that the land as now claimed
may be confirmed to the petitioners, - to wit, the land known
as the Arroyo de la Laguna, - according to the boundaries
given in the decree of the commissioners.
Affidavits were filed in support of the representations contained in the petition; and the petitioners also submitted a
motion that the claim as made in the new petition be confirmed
according to the original papers, and upon that motion the parties were heard; and the record shows that the District Court
denied the motion, and that the claimants appealed to this
court.
Beyond all doubt, the tract or parcel of land solicited by the
donee in his petition to. the governor was described in the petition as eZ terreno conocido, de la costa de Santa Cruz, con eZ nora.
bre del Arroyo de la Laguna segun eZ diseiho que adjunto; which,

WILLIA [S ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

when properly translated, means "the land, on the coast of
Santa Cruz, known by the name of the Airoyo de la Laguna,
according to the map, or disefio annexed" to the petition. Due
reference of the petition was made to the proper authorities to
report whether the land solicited was grantable to the applicant; and, an affirmative report having been made, the governor
entered a decree ordaining that the petitioner is the dueho en
propriedaddel terreno conocido con el nombre del Arroyo de la
Laguna, tomando por linderos desde e Arroyo de San icente
hasta el de la Laguna, come se manifiesta en el disehio que corre
agregado al espediente; which, properly translated, means that
the petitioner is declared to be the owner in fee of the land
known by the name of the Arroyo de la Laguna, taking for
its boundaries, from the Arroyo de San Vicente, as far as that
shown in the dise~io attached to the record
of the Laguna, as is,
of the proceedings.
None of the documents constituting the espediente, except
one embraced in what is called the inform6, describe the land
solicited by the word sitio, and that only in an incidental way.
All the other documents constituting the original title papers
describe the tract solicited as el terreno, the land known, &c.
Nor would it change the original right of the claimants even if
the word sitio had been used in all the documents, as the true
meaning of the word sitio, as used in that connection, is "place,"
and not league, as translated in the original petition of the
claimants.
Suppose that is so: still the error of translation was made by
the claimants, and the decree of confirmation gave them all the
land they claimed in their petition. Plainly the petitioners
could have nothing more, as the commissioners were not authorized to adjudicate such claims, unless they were presented for
Complaint cannot be made that the District
confirmation.
Court committed any error, as the transcript from the commissioners was never presented to the District Court.
Three commissioners were appointed to adjudicate such
claims; and the act authorizing their appointment provided that
the commission should continue for three years from the date of
the act, unless sooner discontinued by the President. 9 Stat.
631.

Li.

1.75.]

W1LLIASIs ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

By a subsequent act, it was made the duty of the commissioners to have two certified transcripts prepared of their proceedings and decision, and of the papers and evidence on which
the same are founded, -one to be filed with the clerk of the
proper District Court, and the other to be transmitted to the
Attorney-General; and the provision was that the filing
the transcript with the clerk of the District Court should iPso
facto operate as an appeal for the party against whom the decision was rendered, and either party might prosecute the
appeal by filing within six months a notice with the clerk of
the District Court that such was the intention of the party
filing such notice. 10 Stat. 99.
Prior to the expiration of the original act, the same was
extended for one year longer from the date of its passage; and
by a subsequent act the original act was continued another
year from the 3d of March, 1855, and no longer. 10 id. 265,
603.
Examined in the light of these acts of Congress, it is clear
that the power of the board of commissioners appointed under
the act to ascertain and settle such claims had expired and
ceased to exist more than fifteen years before the petition under
consideration was filed in the District Court. In the mean
time, the petitioners never gave any notice of appeal from the
decree of the commissioners to the District Court, and none was
ever taken or perfected in their behalf. Instead of that, the
notice given by the Attorney-General of his intention to prosecute an appeal in the case had been withdrawn, and the appeal
abandoned; and it appears that all the parties, from the date of
the decree to the 27th of May, 1872, acquiesced in the decision of the commissioners; and in that view the court here is of
the opinion that it is too late to make the proposed correction
in the petition to the commissioners, or to enlarge the boundaries of the land confirmed by the decree.
Several reasons may be given for that conclusion: (1.) That
the jurisdiction of the board of commissioners to adjudicate
such claims ceased more than fifteen years before the petition in
question was filed in the District Court. (2.) That the decree
of the commissioners was never legally transferred to the District Court, so as to give that court any jurisdiction in the case.

CITY OF ST. Louis v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

(3.) That the claimants, having acquiesced for fifteen years in
the decree of confirmation, are without legal remedy. (4.) That
they are not entitled to the redress claimed under any act of
Congress now in force.
Tested by these considerations, it is clear that there is no
error.
Decree affirmed.

CITY OF ST. Louis v. UNITED STATES.
The deed of conveyance executed to the United States on the twenty-fifth day
of October, 1854, by the city of Carondelet, of a part of the commons of
Carondelet upon which Jefferson Barracks are situate, having been based
upon an equitable compromise of a long-pending and doubtful question of
title, is valid.

ApPEAT :from the Court of Claims.
Mr. Montgomery Blair for the appellants.
Mr. Solicitor-General .Phillips, contra.
Mr. JusTICE M=lER delivered the opinion of the court.
The subject of this controversy is the title to the land known
as Jefferson Barracks, consisting of about seventeen hundred
acres, five miles below the city of St. Louis. It lies within the
lines of a survey of the commons of Carondelet, containing a
much larger quantity, -nearly ten thousand acres.
The present suit was instituted in the Court of Claims, in
1859, by the city of Carondelet. As the jurisdiction of that court
was doubted, Congress, by the act of 1873 (17 U. S. Stat. 621),
specially authorized it to entertain jurisdiction of the controversy. The city of Carondelet having become merged in the
city of St. Louis by an act of the legislature of Missouri, the
latter city was substituted as plaintiff.
A deed conveying the land in controversy to the United
States was made by the city of Carondelet on the twenty-fifth
day of October, 1854; and it is not controverted that the
authority under which this was done was sufficient. If this
deed be held to be otherwise valid, it decides the controversy in favor of the United States. Its validity is denied,
however, on the part of plaintiff, on the ground that it was

