Oct. 1875.]

MONTGOMERY v. BucyRus MACHINE WORKS.

MONTGommRY, ASSIGNEE, v. BuckRUs

crn-m-

257

WORKS.

A., relying upon the representations of D., that the firm of B., C., and D., of
which lie was a member, was perfectly solvent, and that B. was wealthy, sold
it goods. D. having, without the knowledge of A., retired from the firm, an
arrangement was entered into whereby the proceeds of the sale of such
goods remaining in the hands of the agents of the firm of B., C., and D.,

were applied to discharge the debt due to A., and the unsold portion of such
goods returned to him. A., at the time, believed that B. and C. were insolvent;
and they were within four months from such arrangement adjudged bankrupts. Held, that the representations of D. were a fraud upon A., on account
of which he could have rescinded the contract of sale, and followed the goods
wherever he could find them; and the goods not having lost their identity,
nor become part of the permanent stock of B. and C., upon which they obtained credit, their assignee cannot, in the absence of actual fraud in the

arrangement for the payment of such proceeds, recover them in a suit
against A.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western Distict of Missouri.
31r. James Baker for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. T. W. Bartley and Ar. S. .E. Jenner, contra.

MI.

JUSTICE DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
There can be no question, on the conceded facts of the case,
that Stewart, Porter, and Wallace were copartners, under the
firm name of Stewart, Porter, & Co.; and that they are bound
by the duties and obligations arising out of that relation, so
far as the tr-ansactions and contract with the defendant are
concerned. The firm was formed at Sedalia, lo., in January,
1870, by Stewart and Porter, to deal in agricultural implements, with a view to include Wallace, if he chose to join it,
and the name of the partnership was taken for this purpose.
Wallace was sent by them soon after this to Ohio, where the
works of the defendant, a manufacturing corporation, were
situated, to make contracts with it as their partner, if he
elected to become such. This election was all that was required
to render him a member of the firm: there was no necessity
that he should sign any articles of copartnership.
Wallace, when he reached Ohio, elected to join the firm.
Pursuant to the express authority conferred upon him by his
associates in business, he entered into a contract of purchase
VOL. IL

17

258

MONTGOMERY v. BUCYRUS MACHINE WORKS.

[Sup. Ct.

with the defendant, to whom he represented that the firm, consisting of Stewart, Porter, and himself, was solvent and doing
a good business, and that Porter was wealthy. Previously to
this the defendant knew nothing of the firm, but, relying on
the truth of his statements, parted with its property to a firm
composed of Stewart, Porter, and Wallace; nor did it learn of
the retirement of Wallace from the firm until after proceedinga
in bankruptcy had been commenced against Stewart and Porter.
It dealt throughout, as it had commenced, with a firm composed of the three persons, which, so far as it is concerned, was
not changed.
It is true, before closing its dealings, it acted under the mistaken belief that this firm was insolvent. The firm owed no
one else; and the firm composed of Stewart and Porter, which
was insolvent, was not indebted to the defendant.
By the terms of the contract made by Wallace, on behalf of
the firm, with the corporation, one car-load of machines was
sold and delivered at the time; and there was a further agreement to fill all orders as soon as practicable. From time to
time, orders were given, and machines forwarded. They were
generally shipped direct to the different persons who had engaged to sell them for Stewart, Porter, & Co.; and the proceeds
of these machines, when sold, were applied, with the consent of
all parties, to discharge the debt due the corporation, and the
nnsold machines were returned to it.
The defendant had the right to rescind the contract on the
groumd of fraud,.and follow the property or its proceeds wherever they could be found. This it did not do, because its
agents and officers had no reason to believe that Wallace had
actually misled them to its injury until after the machines were
all forwarded. But equity and good conscience required that
the proceeds of property obtained from it by fraud should be
p-aid to it, or that the property itself, if unsold, be returned.
This was recognized by Stewart, Porter, and Wallace ; and the
arrangement by which this was done is binding on them and
the corporation. The machines did not lose their identitynor can it be said that they formed a part of the permanent.
stock of goods of the bankrupts, Stewart and Porter, so that
thev can be considered as having thereby obtained credit.

-Oct. 1875.]

HENDERSON ET AL. V. MIAYOR OF

N. Y.

ET AL.

259

Their creditors, therefore, have no right to complain, as the settlement was made in the absence of actual fraud; and the
mere fact, that, when it was made, the corporation knew that
Porter and Stewart were insolvent, does not render it fraudulent under the Bankrupt Law. The transaction by which it
got part of the machines back, and received the proceeds of
those which had been sold, was, under the circumstances, most
equitable; and it cannot be defeated by the consideration that
Wallace, after he had made the contract, was allowed to retire
from the firm. It would be a great wrong to the corporation,
who knew nothing of this, or of the untruthfulness of Wallace's representations, until after the property had all been delivered. It always dealt with the firm as composed of Stewart,
Porter, and Wallace. Having no information to the contrary
until after the bankruptcy of Stewart and Porter, and the
receipt of the proceeds of its own property fraudulently procured from it, the corporation is not liable to the assignee of
Stewart and Porter for such proceeds.
Judgment affirmed.

HENDERSONT ET AL. V. MAYOR OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK
ET AL.
COzMrSSIONERS OF ImMIGrIATIoN V. NORTH GERMIA-! LLOYD.
1. The case of the Cityof New Yrrk v. Miln, 11 Pet. 103, decided no more than
that the requirement from the master of a vessel of a catalogue of his
passengers landed in the city, rendered to the mayor on oath, with a correct description of their names, ages, occupations, places of birth, and of
last legal settlement, was a police regulation within the power of the State
to enact, and not inconsistent with the Constitution of the United States.
2 The result of the Passenger Cases, 7 How. 283, was to hold that a tax demanded of the master or owner of the vessel for every such passenger was
a regulation of commerce by the State, in conflict with the Constitution
and laws of the United States, and therefore void.
3 These cases criticised, and the weight due to them as authority considered.
4. In whatever language a statute may be framed, its purpose and its constitutional validity must be determined by its natural and reasonable
effect.
6. Hence a statute which imposes a burdensome and almost impossible condition on the ship-master as a prerequisite to his landing his passengers, with

