122

FIRST NAT. BANK V. NAT. EXCHANGE BANK.,

[Sup. Ct.

FIRST NATIONAL BAss OF CsntLOnE v. NATIONAL
OHANGE BANK OF BALTIMORE.

Ex-

t. In adjusting and compromising contested claims against it growing out of a
legitimate banking transaction, a national bank may pay a larger sum than
would have been exacted in satisfaction of them, so as to thereby obtain a
transfer of stocks of railroad and other corporations, in the honest belief,
that by turning them into money under more favorable circumstances than
then existed, a loss, which it would otherwise suffer from the transaction,
might be averted or diminished. So, also, it may accept stocks in satisfaction of a doubtful debt, with a view to their subsequent sale or conversion
into money in order to make good or reduce an anticipated loss.
2. Such transactions would not amount to dealing in stocks, and they come within
the general scope of the powers committed to the board of directors and
the officers and agents of a national bank. Subject to such restraints as
its charter and by-laws impose, they may do in this behalf whatever natural
persons can lawfully do.
8. Dealing in stocks by a national bank is not expressly prohibited; but such a
prohibition is implied from the failure to grant the power.

to the Court of Appeals of the State of Maryland.
The plaintiff, a national bank organized under the laws of
the United States, and doing business at Charlotte, N.C., desiring to increase its capital stock, and for that purpose to
deposit with the treasurer of the United States at Washington
$50,000 in bonds of the United States, employed Bayne & Co.,
of Baltimore, as its agent, to procure and deliver them at the
treasury. Not having money to pay for them at the time, the
plaintiff sent its president, Wilkes, to Baltimore, with a certificate previously prepared in Charlotte, as follows: ERROR

"FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHARLOTTE, N.0.,

"CHARLOTTE, Dec. 15, 1865.
"Received on deposit, from Bayne & Co., fifty-five thousand
United States 5-20 bonds, third issue, payable to the order of themselves on return of this certificate.
"JOHN WnIKES,
"Pres.First N~at. B., Charlotte, V.C.'"

This certificate was delivered by Wilkes to Bayne & Co. in
Baltimore; and on the 18th of December, 1865, they, having
indorsed the same, depo'tited it, together with other securities,

Oct. 1S75.]

FiRT NAT.

BANK

V. NAT. EXCHANGE BANK.

123

with the National Exchange Bank of Baltimore, as collateral
security for a call loan of $80,000 then made by that bank to
said firm of Bayne & Co.
A few days after the delivery of said certificate, the plaintiff
deposited in New York, to the credit of Bayne & Co., a sum
sufficient to pay the same, and received, in January, 1866, oral
notice from them that the certificate was discharged, and subject
to its order. In March, 1866, the plaintiff received a written
notice to the same effect, but did not apply for the surrender
of said certificate. In April following, Bayne & Co. failed;
and the plaintiff was then notified by the defendant that it
held the certificate of deposit for value, and demanded the delivery of the bonds therein mentioned.
Wilkes, the president, was sent by the plaintiff to Baltimore
to negotiate for the return of said certificate. He informed the
defendant that it had been satisfied by the payment to Bayne
& Co., and disavowed any legal liability on account of same to
the defendant. To avoid suit, however, Wilkes offered to pay
$5,000 upon the delivery of the certificate; which defendant
refused, but offered to take $20,000, and threatened suit unless
so settled. Wilkes declined to pay this sum, but asked for
delay until he could return to Charlotte and consult the directors of his bank. He again returned to Baltimore, and new
negotiations for compromise of the controversy between the
two banks in regard to their respective rights to the certificate
were opened. Wilkes ascertained that the defendant held,
among its collaterals from Bayne & Co., a large number of
shares of Washington, Alexandria, and Georgetown Railroad
stocks, the market-value of which had been seriously depressed
by the failure of Bayne &-Co. Having informed himself in
regard to the condition of the stock and its supposed value, and
after one or two interviews with the president and dii ectors of
the defendant, it was finally agreed that the plaintiff should
take four hundred shares of the Washington, Alexandria, and
Georgetown Railroad stock, and one thousand shares of the Maryland Anthracite stock, the same being valued at $40,000; and
one hundred and twenty-five shares of the stock of the plaintiff,
valued at 515,000, - the latter, inasmuch as he was advised that
a national bank could not buy its own stock, to be taken by

124

FIRST NAT. BANK V. NAT. EXCHANGE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Wilkes himself; thus making $55,000. Upon the basis of this
settlement, the defendant was to deliver to Wilkes the certificate held by it for the $55,000 United States bonds. The
plaintiff paid to the defendant the sum of $40,000 according
to the terms of the above settlement, and received the certificates for one thousand shares coal stock. The four hundred
shares of railroad stock were not then delivered, there being a
suit about it at the time of the agreement which prevented all
transfers; but it was regarded and treated by both parties as
belonging to the plaintiff.
In September, 1869, nearly three years after the date of the
settlement, suit was brought by the plaintiff in the Superior
Court of Baltimore City to recover the $40,000 paid by it to
the defendant in pursuance of the arrangement above stated.
At the request of the plaintiff, the court granted the following
propositions of law: TPirst, That if the plaintiff agreed to purchase for $40,000
the railroad and coal stock, and paid that sum, then the court
must find for the plaintiff for that amount; provided the court
shall find that the defendant knew the plaintiff to be a national bank, and shall further find that the certificate of
deposit was delivered up in consequence of said contract, if
by said contract no part of the $40,000 was to be paid for the
certificate.
Second, That if the plaintiff agreed to purchase the said
stock for $40,000, and Wilkes also agreed to purchase for
$15,000 one hundred and twenty-five shares of plaintiff's stock,
and the inducement to both agreements was Wilkes's desire to
obtain the certificate of deposit, and he did so obtain it, that
does not inure to make the first contract valid, provided the
court shall find, that, by the first-mentioned contract, the consideration for which the sum of $40,000 was to be paid was the
railroad and coal stock, and that no part of said sum was to be
paid for the certificate of deposit.
Third, That if the plaintiff, in order to comprormise the certificate of deposit, agreed to purchase it and the railroad and
coal stock for 40,000, and paid the money, then the plaintiff is
entitled to recover so much of said sum as the court shall find
was paid for said stock.

Oct. 1875.]

FIRST NAT. BANK V. NAT. EXCHANGE BANK.

125

The court found for the defendant, and rendered a judgment
in its favor, which the Court of Appeals affirmed: whereupon
the case was brought here by writ of error.
Mr. J. Upshur -Dennisand Ir. John Scott, Jr., for the plaintiff in error.
The determination of the validity of the transaction involved
in this case must necessarily depend upon the construction
of the National Banking Law.
The eighth section of that law enumerates the powers which
a national bank can exercise. Every other power is as much
withheld as if it was in express terms prohibited. Pearcev.
Mad. & Ind. 1.]., 21 How. 442; Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13
Pet. 587; Perrinev. Ches. & Del.CanalCo., 9 How. 184; Penn.,
.Del., . 3d. Steam Nav. Co., 8 G. & J. 319.
No clause gives it power to purchase stocks: on the contrary, the authority specifically conferred on it to buy exchange,
coin, and bullion, raises the conclusive presumption that the
omission of that power was intentional. Expressio unius exelusio alterius.
Conceding that the two agreements - the one for the abandonment of the claim, and the other for the purchase of stock may be inseparably united, it is insisted that the court below
erred in holding that a power to acquire stocks is incidental to
that of providing for the discharge of a disputed claim by way
of compromise. Taking any thing from the defendant but a
release or a discharge, transcends the limits of necessary
powers, and enables a corporation to accomplish indirectly
that which was intended to be prohibited. Upon the principle which underlies the opinion of the Court of Appeals, it
may be said that a corporation has, as an incident to the power
to discharge its indebtedness, that of acquiring the requisite
funds; and, as a legitimate means of so doing, the privilege of
engaging in business of any kind, provided its real and bona fide
object is to meet outstanding demands against it. This line of
argument would give these creatures of the statute every
power, the exercise of which is not in positive terms forbidden.
The true doctrine is, that an implied or incidental power
must be deducible from the grant, and fairly within its scope;
partake of the same character as the specifically granted powers,

126

FiRsT NAT. BANK V. NAT. EXCHANGE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

but not enlarge them; and tend naturally to secure the same
result. A power to discharge may embrace that of making a
payment of any kind whatever, but not that of purchasing oi
acquiring. That is a distinct and substantive power of an
entirely different nature. Pearcev. .Hiad. & Ind. _?._R., Szpra;
East Anglican Bys. v. -Eastern Counties By., 7 Eng. Law &
Eq. 508; Hood v. N. . & N. i. B.R., 22 Conn. l id. 502;
Russell v. Topping, 5 McLean, 197; Clarc v. .Farrington,11
Wis. 323; Beatty v. Knowles, 4 Pet. 167.
The precise proposition involved in this controversy has been
decided in Talmage v. Pell,3 Seld. 328. See also Bowler v. Scully,
72 Penn. 461; Shoemaker v. National Mechanics' Bank, 2 Abb.
C. C. 422; Shinkle v. First National Bank of Ripley, 22 Ohio,
516; Wiley v. First National Bank of Brattleboro', 47 Vt.
552; First National Bank of Lyons v. Ocean National Banc,
N. Y. Ct. of Ap., Albany Law Jour., April 17, 1875.
The Court of Appeals of MaiTland, in Weckler v. FirstNational Bankc of Hagerston, decided at the April Term, 1875,
but not yet reported, has changed its former views, and recognizes and enforces the doctrine announced in Talmage v. Peel,
8upra.
Mr. William F. rick, contra.
MR. Ca
JusTICE WAiTE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The question presented for our consideration in this case is,
whether a national bank, organized under the National Banking Act, may, in a fair and bona fide compromise of a contested
claim against it growing out of a legitimate banking transaction, pay a larger sum than would have been exacted in satisfaction of the demand, so as to obtain by the arrangement a
transfer of certain stocks in railroad and other corporations; it
being honestly believed at the time, that, by turning the stocks
into money under more favorable circumstances than then existed, a loss, which would otherwise accrue from the transaction, might be averted or diminished. Such, according to the
finding below, was the state of facts out of which this suit has
arisen. That finding is conclusive upon us.
A national bank can "exercise by its board of directors, or

Oct. 1875.]

FIRST NAT. BANK V. NAT. EXCHANGE BANK.

127

,duly authorized officers or agents, subject to law, all such incidental powers as shall be necessary to carry on the business
of banking, by discounting and negotiating promissory notes,
,drafts, bills of exchange, and other evidences of debt; by re-ceiving deposits; by buying and selling exchange, coin, and
bullion; by loaning money on personal security; and by obtaining, issuing, and circulating notes." Rev. Stat., sect. 5136,
par. 7; 15 Stat. 101, sect. 8.
Authority is thus given to transact such a banking business
as is specified, and all incidental powers necessary to carry it
on are granted. These powers are such as are required to meet
ill
the legitimate demands of the authorized business, and to
enable a bank to conduct its affairs, within the general scope
of its charter, safely and prudently. This necessarily implies
the right of a bank to incur liabilities in the regular course of
its business, as well as to become the creditor of others. Its
own obligations must be met, and debts due to it collected or
secured. The power to adopt reasonable and appropriate measures for these purposes is an incident to the power to incur the
liability or become the creditor. Obligations may be assumed
that result unfortunately. Loans or discounts may be made
that cannot be met at maturity. Compromises to avoid or
reduce losses are oftentimes the necessary results of this condition of things. These compromises come within the general
scope of the powers committed to the board of directors and
the officers and agents of the bank, and are submitted to their
judgment and discretion, except to the extent that they are
restrained by the charter or by-laws. Banks may do, in this
behalf, whatever natural persons could do under like circumstances.
To some extent, it has been thought expedient in the National
Banking Act to limit this power. Thus, as to real estate, it is
provided (Rev. Stat., sect. 5137; 13 Stat. 107, sect. 28) that
it may be accepted in good faith as security for, or in payment
of, debts previously contracted; but, if accepted in payment,
it must not be retained more than five years. So, while a bank
is expressly prohibited (sect. 5201; 13 Stat. 110, sect. 35) from
loaning money upon or purchasing its own stock, special authority is given for the acceptance of its shares as security for,

128

FiRST NAT. BANK V. NAT. EXCHANGE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

and in payment of, debts previously contracted in good faith,
but all shares purchased under this power must be again sold
or disposed of at private or public sale within six months from
the time they are acquired.
Dealing in stocks is not expressly prohibited; but such a prohibition is implied from the failure to grant the power. In the
honest exercise of the power to compromise a doubtful debt
owing to a bank, it can hardly be doubted that stocks may be
accepted in payment and satisfaction, with a view to their subsequent sale or conversion into money so as to make good or
reduce an anticipated loss. Such a transaction would not
amount to a dealing in stocks. It was, in effect, so decided in
Pleekner v. Bank U. S., 8 Wheat. 351, where it was held that
a prohibition against trading and dealing was nothing more
than a prohibition against engaging in the ordinary business
of buying and selling for profit, and did not include purchases
resulting from ordinary banking transactions. For this reason,
among others, the acceptance of an indorsed note in payment
of a debt due was decided not to be a "dealing" in notes.
Of course, all such transactions must be compromises in good
faith, and not mere cloaks or devices to cover unauthorized
practices.
It is difficult to see how a debt due from, or a contested obligation resting upon, a bank, occupies any different position in
respect to this power of adjustment and compromise from that
of a debt owing to it. The object in both cases is to get rid
of or reduce an apprehended loss growing out of legitimate
business; and it would seem that whatever might be done in
the one case ought not to be excluded from the other under
the same circumstances. Often a discharge by a bank of its
own obligation creates a debt due to it from another. Such
-was the case here.' Bayne, without authority, transferred to
the defendant, as collateral security for his indebtedness, a
certificate of deposit issued to him by the plaintiff, and afterwards collected the money due upon the certificate from the
plaintiff without disclosing the transfer. Any payment by the
plaintiff to the defendant, therefore, in discharge of its liability
upon the certificate, became a lawful charge against Bayne. He
-was insolvent. It was, on this account, not only the right, but

Oct. 1875.]

ROCKHOLD v. ROCKHOLD ET AL.

the duty, of the officers and agents of the plaintiff to protect by
their arrangements, as far as possible, the stockholders whose
interests they represented. This was necessarily left to their
judgment and discretion. No question of good faith is involved.
The transaction for all the purposes of this suit must be taken
to have been, in fact, what it purports to be,- a fair and honest compromise of an outstanding claim, with a view to ultimate
protection against an impending loss. As such, we think it
was within the corporate powers of the bank, and that the
Court of Appeals did not err in so holding.
Judgment affirmed.

ROOKHOLD

V. RoCXHO

LD ET AL.

this court has not jurisdiction to re-examine the decree of a State court affirming
the non-liability of a trustee to his cestui que trust for the loss of a fund not
occasioned by his laches or bad faith, but by his payment of the same into
the hands of the receiver of the Confederate States in obedience to a military
order which he could not resist.
MOTION to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court of
the State of Tennessee.
T r. William W. Boyce for the defendants in error, in support
of the motion.
1Ir. Henry Cooper, contra.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
The object of this suit was to bring the executors of the will
of Thomas Rockhold, deceased, to an account with the plaintiff,
Charles Rockhold, one of the legatees. The defendant, William D. Blevins, one of the executors, answering the bill, said,
in substance, that, contrary to his wishes, he was forced by a
military power that he could not control to receive the sum of
$5,004.74 from one of the debtors of the estate, in Confederate
money, and pay it over to the receiver of the Confederate
States. When this was done, the country was under complete
military rule; and he acted, contrary to his wishes, under Confederate authority, which he was compelled to obey. This, he
VOL. 11.

9

