Oct. 1875.]

MIARCY

v. TowNsHIP OF OSWEGO.

board, - he would have found an order to subscribe, equivalent
to a subscription made, in December, 1869, corresponding with
;he assertions of the recitals, and declared by them to have
been a subscription. He could have made inquiry nowhere
else with any prospect of learning the truth. Every step he
could have taken assured him that the recitals were true. I-w,
then, can the county be permitted to set up against a 3ona fide
holder of the bonds, that the authority to make a subscription
with all its legitimate consequences had expired before the subscription was made, in the face of the recitals and of the county
records? Whether it had expired was a matter of fact, not of
law; and it was peculiarly, if not exclusively, within the knowledge of the board of supervisors. After having assured a purchaser that their subscription was made in December, 1869,
when they had power to make it, it would be tdlerating a fraud
to permit the county to set up, when called upon for payment,
that it was not made until after July 2,1870, when their authority expired.
It is unnecessary to say more. Some matters which we have
not noticed were assigned as errors, but they were not mentioned in the argument, and, in our opinion, they exhibit no
Judgment affirmed.
error in the court below.
MR. JusTcC

MTTT R, MB. JUSTICE DAVIs, and MR. Jus-

TICE F LD, dissented.

MARcy v. TowxTsn= oF OSWEGO.
1. An act of the legislature of Kansas of Feb. 25, 1870, provides, that whenever fifty of the qualified voters, being freeholders of any municipal township in any county, shall petition the board of county commissioners of such
county to submit to the qualified voters of the township a proposition to
take stock in any railroad proposed to be constructed into or through such
township, and shall designate in the petition the railroad company, and the
amount of stock proposed to be taken, it shall be the duty of the board to
cause an election to be held, to determine whether such subscription shall be
made; provided, that the amount of bonds voted shall not be above such a
sum as will require a levy of more than one per cent per annum on the taxable property of the township, to pay the yearly interest on the amount of
bonds issued. In the event of the vote being favorable, the board of

MARCY v. TOWNSHIP oF OSwEGo.

[Sup. Ct.

county commissioners were to issue the bonds in the name of the township.
The bonds in question here were regularly executed by the chairman of the
board, and attested by the county-clerk and seal of the county. They recite
that they are issued in accordance with said act, and in pursuance of the
votes of three-fifths of the legal voters of the township at a special election
duly held. Held, that, in a suit brought on some of the coupons by a bona
fide holder for value, it cannot be shown as a defence to a recovery, that, at
the time of voting and issuing the bonds, the value of the taxable property
of the township was not in amount sufficient to authorize the voting and
issuing of the whole series of them.
2. All prerequisite facts to the execution and issue of the bonds were, by the
statute, referred to the board of county commissioners; and the plaintiff
was not bound, when he purchased, to look beyond the legislative act and
the recitals of the bonds.

EnnoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kansas.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Alfred -Ennisand Mr. A. L. Williams for the plaintiff in
error.
Aifr. Henry G. Webb, contra.

IR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the courv.
At the trial in the Circuit Court, the plaintiff proved by competent evidence that the bonds, coupons of which were declared
upon, were part of a series of bonds for $100,000 voted and
issued by the township, and that they were so voted and issued
in strict compliance with an act of the legislature of the
State, approved Feb. 25, 1870, unless they were voted and
issued in excess of the amount authorized by the act. It
became, therefore, a question whether, in this suit, brought by
a bona fide holder for value to recover the amount of some of
the coupons, it could be shown, as a defence to a recovery, that
at the time of voting and issuing the series of bonds the value
of the taxable property of the township was not in amount
sufficient to authorize the voting and issuing of the whole
series, amounting to $100,000.
To solve this question, there are some facts appearing in the
case which it is necessary to consider. The bonds to which the
coupons were attached contained the following recital: "This bond is executed and issued by virtue of and in accordance with an act of the legislature of the said State of Kansas,

Oct. 1875.]

MARCY v. TOwNSHIP OF OSWEGO.

entitled 'An Act to enable municipal townships to subscribe for
stock in any railroad, and to provide for the payment of the same,
approved Feb. 25, 1870,' and in pursuance of and in accordance
with the vote of three-fifths of the legal voters of said township of
Oswego, at a special election duly held on the seventeenth day of
May, A.D. 1870."
Each bond also declared that the board of couhtycommission.ers of the county of Labette (of which county the township of
Oswego is a part) bad caused it to be issued in the name and
in behalf of said township, and to be signed by the chairman
of the said board of county commissioners, and attested by the
county-clerk of the said county, under its seal. Accordingly,
each bond was thus signed, attested, and sealed. Nor is this all.
The bonds were registered in the office of the State auditor, and
certified by him in accordance with the provisions of an act of
the legislature. His certificate on the back of each bond
declared that it had been regularly and legally issued, that the
signatures thereto were genuine, and that it had been duly
registered in accordance with the act of the legislature.
In view of these facts, and of the decisions heretofore made
by this court, the first question certified to us cannot be considered an open one. We have recently reviewed the subject in
Town of Coloma v. Eaves, supra,p. 484, and reasserted what had
been decided before; namely, that where legislative authority
has been given to a municipality to subscribe for the stock of a
raih'oad company, and to issue municipal bonds in payment of
the subscription, on the happening of some precedent contingency of fact, and where it may be gathered from the legislative enactment that the officers or persons designated to execute
the bonds were invested with power to decide whether the contingency had happened, or whether the fact existed which was
a necessary precedent to any subscription or issue of the bonds,
their decision is final in a suit by the bona fide holder of the
bonds against the municipality, and a recital in the bonds that.
the requirements of the legislative act have been complied
with, is conclusive. And this is more emphatically true when
the fact is one peculiarly within the knowledge of the persons
to whom the power to issue the bonds has been conditionally
granted.

640

MAcy v. TowNsmP oF OswEGo.

[Sup. CL

Applying this settled rule to the present case, it is free from
difficulty. The act of the legislature under which the bonds
purport to have been issued was passed Feb. 25, 1870. Laws
of Kansas, 1870, p. 189. The first section enacted that whenever fifty of the qualified voters, being freeholders, of any
municipal township in any county should petition the board of
county commissioners of such county to submit to the qualified
voters of the township a proposition to take stock in the name
of such township in any railroad proposed to be constructed
into or through the township, designating in the petition,
among other things, the amount of stock proposed to be taken,
it should be the duty of the board to cause an election to be
held in the township to determine whether such subscription
should be made; provided, that the amount of bonds voted by
any township should not be above such a sum as would require
a levy of more than one per cent per annum on the taxable
property of such township to pay the yearly interest.
The second section directed the board of county commissioners to make an order for holding the election contemplated
in the preceding section, and to specify therein the amount of
stock proposed to be subscribed, and also to prescribe the form
of the ballots to be used.
The fifth section enacted that if three-fifths'of the electors
voting at such election should vote for the subscription, the
board of county commissioners should order the county-clerk to
make it in the name of the township, and should cause such
bonds as might be required by the terms of the vote and subscription to ba issued in the name of such tbwnship, to be
signed by the chairman of the board and attested by the clerk,
under the seal of the county.
These provisions of the legislative act make it evident not
only that the county board was constituted the agent to execute
the power granted, but that it was contemplated the board
should determine whether the facts existed which, under the
law, warranted the issue of the bonds. The board was to
order the election, if certain facts existed, and only then. It
was required to act, if fifty freeholders who were voters of the
township petitioned for the election; if the petition set out the
amount of stock proposed to be subscribed; if that amount

Oct. b75.]

MARCY v. TOwNSHIP

OF

OSWEGO.

was not greater than the amount to which the township was
limited by the act; if the petition designated the railroad
company; if it pointed out the mode and terms of payment.
Of course the board, and it only, was to decide whether these
things precedent to the right to order an election were actual
facts. No other tribunal could make the determination, and
the members of the board had peculiar means of knowledge
beyond what any other persons could have. Moreover, these
decisions were to be made before they acted, not after the election and after the bonds had been issued.
The order for the election, then, involved a determination by
the appointed authority that the petition for it was sufficiently
signed by fifty freeholders who were voters; that the petition
was such a one as was contemplated by the law; and that the
amount proposed by it to be subscribed was not beyond the
limit fixed by the legislature.
So, also, the subsequent issue of the bonds containing the
recital above quoted, that they were issued "by virtue of and in
accordance with" the legislative act, and in "pursuance of and
in accordance with the vote of three-fifths of the legal voters
of the township," was another determination not only of the
result of the popular vote, but that all the facts existed which
the statute required in order to justify the issue of the bonds.
It is to be observed that every prerequisite fact to the execution and issue of the bonds was of a nature that required
examination and decision. The existence of sufficient taxable
property to warrant the amount of the subscription and issue was
no more essential to the exercise of the authority conferred upon '
the board of county commissioners than was the petition for the
election, or the fact that fifty freeholders had signed, or that
three-fifths of the legal voters had voted for, the subscription.
These are all extrinsic facts, bearing not so much upon the
authority vested in the board to issue the bonds, as upon the
question whether that authority should be exercised. They are
all, by the statute, referred to the inquiry and determination of
the board, and they were all determined before the bonds and
coupons came into the hands of the plaintiff. He was, therefore, not bound when he purchased to look beyond the act of
the legislature and the recitals which the bond contained. It
VOL,. 71.

41

642

HUM[BOLDT TOWxSHiP v. LONG ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

follows that the first question certified to us should be answered
in the negative.
Such being our opinion respecting the first question certified,
the second and third questions are immaterial, and they require
no consideration.
Judgment reversed, and new trial ordered.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER, MR. JUSTICE
JUSTICE FIELD, dissented.

DAvis, and

MR.

HUAMBOLDT TOWNISmP v. LONG ET AT,.
1. The bonds in question in this suit were issued under the authority of the
same act of the legislature as those mentioned in the preceding case.
doctrines there held are reaffirmed.
2. A bond of the tenor following, -

I

The

"Be it known that Humboldt Township, in the county of Allen and State of
Kansas, is indebted t6 the Fort Scott and Allen County Railroad Company,
or bearer, in the sum of $1,000, lawful money of the United States, with
interest at the rate of seven per cent per annum, payable annually on the
first
days of January in each year, at the banking-house of Gilman, Son, &
Co., in the city of New York, on the presentation and surrender of the
respective interest-coupons hereto annexed. The principal of this bond
shall be due and payable on the thirty-first day of December, A.Dl. 1901, at
the banking-house of Gilman, Son, & Co., in the city of New York. This
bond is issued for the purpose of subscribing to the capital stock of the
Fort Scott and Allen County Railroad. and for the construction of the
same through said township, in pursuance of and in accordance with an
act of the legislature of the State of Kansas, entitled 'An Act to enable
municipal townships to subscribe for stock in any railroad, and to provide
for the payment of the same,' approved Feb. 25, A.D. 1870; and for the
payment of said sum of money and accruing interest thereon, in manner
aforesaid, upon the performance of the said condition, the faith of the
aforesaid Humboldt Township, as also its property, revenue, and resources,
is pledged.
I In testimony whereof, this bond has been signed by the chairman of the
board of county commissioners of Allen County, Kan., and attested by the
county-clerk of said county, this twelfth day of October, 1871.
"Z. WISNEaiR,
"Chairman County Commissioners.
"Attest: W. E. WAGGONER, County-Clerk."
is negotiable, and a bona fide holder is entitled to the rights of a holder of
negotiable paper taken in the ordinary course of business before maturity.
8. Although the election authorizing the issue of the bonds was held within less
-

