Oct. 1875.]

P

PIEDMONT, ETC. LIFE-INS. Co. v. EWING, ETC.

Dm ONT AND ARLINGTON LIEE-INsuRANxC

877

ComPANY v.

EWING, ADMkINISTRATOR.
1. Where, in an action against a life-insurance company brought by an administrator on a policy purporting to insure the life of the intestate, one of the
defences set up was that the answers of the latter to certain questions
propounded to him at the time of his application touching his habits of lif(,
&c., were untrue, the burden of proving the truth of such answers does not
rest on the plaintiff.
2. While negotiations were still pending between an agent of the company and
the applicant, touching the precise terms of a contract of insurance, the
amount of premium, and the mode of payment, a friend paid the premium,
but concealed from the agent the condition of the applicant, who was then
in extremis, and died in a few hours. The agent, in ignorance of the facts,
delivered the policy. Hedd, that no valid contract arose from the transaction.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Missouri.
The case was argued by .lfr. -E.C. Carringtonfor the plaintiff in error, and submitted on printed argument by 21r. Britton
A. Hill for the defendant in error.

delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action on a policy of life-insurance issued by
plaintiff inerror.
The defence is, that though plaintiff below, as administrator
MR. JUSTICE MnmLER

of Mr. Howes, whose life it purported to insure, had received
the policy, it was, in reality, not delivered by the agent until

after the death of the assured, and in ignorance of that event.
This is not disputed. But plaintiff below insisted that a
contract of insurance had been made between Howes and
the insurance company before his death, which bound the
company; and whether this was so or not is the principal
question in the case.
Another defence, however, was, that the assured had in his
application, in answer to the questions propounded to him,
stated, among many other things, that his habits of life were correct and temperate, and had ever been so, and that he had never
habitually used ardent spirits to the extent of intemperance;
and in reply to the question, "Are you subject to, or have you

878

PIEDMONT, ETC. LIFE-INS. CO. v. EWING, ETC.

[Sup. Ct.

had, dyspepsia, diarrhoea, dysentery, disease of the heart, stomach, bowels, or any of the vital organs?" answered "No." The
defendant alleges in his answer to the declaration that these
answers were untrue.
On this branch of the case the argument of plaintiff in error
is, that the burden of proving the truth of these answers was
on plaintiff below; and that, if he failed to introduoe satisfactory evidence on that subject, he could not recover. It is true
that this court holds that all these answers are warranties, if
so declared by the terms of the policy; and if any of them,
however immaterial to the risk, is shown to be untrue, the
policy is void.
The number of questions in this application which require
an answer are from thirty to fifty in every case. They relate
to matters occurring in childhood, or which concern the health
or habits of the ancestors of the assured, and to other matters
rather of opinion than fact, which it would be almost impossible to prove. To establish the truth of the answer would, in
many cases, require the party to prove a negative. Take the
points raised in the case. How can a man who has lived forty
or fifty years prove that he never had dyspepsia or a diarrhoea,
or any disease of the heart or bowels ? and how can he prove
that his habits of life have always been correct, and that he
never drank ardent spirits to the extent of intemperance?
While it may be easy enough to prove the affirmative of
one of these questions, it is next to impossible to prove the
negative.
The number of the questions now asked of the assured in
every application for a policy, and the variety of subjects, and
length of time which they cover, are such, that it may be safely
said that no sane man would ever take a policy if proof to the
satisfaction of a jury of the truth of every answer were made
known to him to be an indispensable prerequisite to payment
of the sum secured, that proof to be made only after he was
dead, and could render no assistance in furnishing it. On the
other hand, it is no hardship, that, if the insurer knows or
believes any of these statements to be false, he shall furnish
the evidence on which that knowledge or belief rests. He can
thus single out the answer whose truth he proposes to contest;

Oct. 1875.]

PIEDMONT,

ETC. LIFE-INS. CO. V. EWING, ETC.

879

and, if he has any reasonable grounds to make such an issue, he
can show the facts on which it is founded.
The judge of the Circuit Court was, therefore, right in refusing to instruct the jury, that the burden of proving the truth
of these answers rested with the plaintiff below.
The court submitted to the jury the question, whether, notwithstanding the policy was delivered to a friend of the deceased
after his death, by the agent of the company, in ignorance of
the fact of his death, there had been a contract for insurance
before his death, which made this delivery a duty, and therefore
valid; and, in doing this, the court placed before the jury hypothetically the principal facts proved on that subject, and said,
if they found them as thus stated to be true, they were sufficient
to justify a verdict for the plaintiff. This charge is the main
error relied on to reverse the judgment.
All the evidence on this subject is in the record, and was
parol. It appears .that Howes was publisher of a newspaper;
and that, the special agent of the company (Huff) desiring to
advertise in the paper, an agreement was made that Howes
should take a policy on his life for $5,000, and the cost of a
year's advertisement should go towards paying the first annual
premium. The advertisement was to cost $70, and its publication in the paper commenced at once. This was about the 28th
August, 1871. Howes made his formal application; and the
company sent its policy to the local agent, Bell, with instructions to deliver the policy on the payment of the balance of
the first annual premium, - to wit, $17.70, the whole premium
being $87.70.
"It further appeared in evidence," says the bill of exceptions,
"that said policy was executed by the officers of the company,
and forwarded to said Bell, and received by him at Jefferson
City, Mo., about the sixth day of September, 1871, to be countersigned and delivered; that he tendered the same to said
Howes, and demanded the cash part of said advance premium,-.
to wit, $17.70; but that said Howes did not pay the same, saying that the printing was to pay the first semi-annual premium
on the policy; that he would write to Huff, the special agent
of the compaiiy, with whom he had made the contract at
Kansas City, about it; that, after giving said Howes time to

880

PIEDMONT, ETC. LIFE-INs. Co. v. EWING, EC.

[Sup. Ci.

hear from said special agent, said Bell called again upon said
Howes for the $17.70, but he did not pay said sum; and tlat
afterwards -to wit, on the twelfth day of October, 1871 said Bell, being about to remove to the neighborhood of Brazeto,
fifteen miles from Jefferson City, called again upon said Howes,
and found him sick. Howes told him that he would look up
the accounts as soon as he was able to get to his office, and
would settle the matter."
This evidence seems to be uncontradicted. On the fourteenth
day of October, on or about six o'clock in the evening, Howes
died, and Bell was at that time not in the city; but, on that
day, Howes's friend and partner, Ragan (at what hour is not
stated), paid to a man using the same office with Bell the
$17.70, and gave a receipt for the bill for printing of $70, and
took from the same person a receipt in full for the $87.70 paid
on the policy, describing it by number. This receipt was
signed "R. A. Hufford, for J. F. Bell, agent," &c.
Neither Hufford nor Bell knew of Howes's condition at this
time. HIufford wrote to Bell what he had done, and requested
him to send the policy by mail; which he did. There is some
question raised as to Hufford's power to accept and receipt for
the money; and if he had none, then as to Bell's ratification
of his act.
But, in the view which we take of this case, this is immaterial; for we think, that, if Bell himself had done all that
Hufford and himself both did, -that is, if Bell had received
the money, given the receipt, and delivered the policy in the
manner they were done,- there was still no valid contract.
It will, perhaps, . be admitted, that if there had been no
agreement before Howes was at the point of death, between
himself and the insurance company as to the terms of the contract, Howes alone could not at that moment by any act of his
perfect the agreement. It cannot for a moment be contended,
that, while parties are still in negotiation as to the terms of a
contract, one of them, learning of a total change in the condition of the subject-matter of the contract of which the other
is ignorant, can at that moment accept terms which he has
refused before, and by doing so bind the party wlfo had offered
those terms when the condition of affairs was-wholly different,

Oct. 1875.]

PIEDMONT, ETC. LIFE-INS. CO. V. EWING, EIC.

381

The case before us is a striking instance of the attempt to
do this.
There is no evidence to show that Howes and Huff, the first
agent, ever came to any terms as to the amount of the premium,
and but little to show that they agreed on the price of the
advertisement. It is quite plain that when the policy was
presented to Howes by Bell, and the balance of $17.70 demanded, that the parties had not then come to an understanding of the precise terms of the contract. It amounted to no
more than this, - that the company should advertise in Howes's
paper, that he should take a policy of the company for $5,000,
and that the advertisement should go as payment on the first
premium.
But Mr. Howes insisted that the advertisement should pay
the first premium in full, and he refused to accept the policy on
any other terms. It is not shown, nor is there any fair inference to be drawn from the testimony, that he ever changed his
mind on the point. Time was given him to write to Huff, with
whom he had negotiated; but it is not shown that he ever did
so. After a reasonable time for this, he was again called on
for the money, and did not pay; and, two days before his death,
he was again called on by the agent, who was about to leave
the town. His answer was, that he would look up the accounts
as soon as he was able to get to his office, and would settle the
matter. There is in all this no relinquishment of his claim
that the printing was to pay all the first annual premium, and
at no time a promise to pay the $17.70 in cash.
It seems impossible to conclude that up to this time there
had been any thing more than negotiations; that there had
been any meeting of minds on the necessary terms of the contract. The amount and the mode of payment were still under
consideration.
To hold that when he was in extremis, an hour or two before
he breathed his last, a friend could pay this small sum to an
agent of the company, without the agent or the company having any idea of the condition of the dying man, and thus secure
an obligation to pay his administrator $5,000 within sixty or
ninety days, is to affirm that one party to a negotiation can
delay his assent to the terms of the contract until the

382

SAVAGE, EXECUTRIX,

V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

changes of fortune enable him to reap all the benefits, and
throw all the losses on the other side, and then, for the first
time, do what was necessary on his part to make the contract
obligatory.
'Phis case differs very widely from those cited, in which a
delay in payment has been treated by the court as waived, All
such cases proceed on the ground that a valid agreement as to
the terms of the contract has been made. In most of them
one or two premiums have been paid, and the delay in paying subsequently has been waived or accounted for; or, the
amount of the first payment having been agreed on, the agent
or some one for the company has so acted with the assured in
the matter as to show a consent to delay.
But in this case no delay was asked for. That was not the
point in controversy. The amount due or to be paid was the
open question; and we can see no evidence that on this point
Mr. Howes ever in his lifetime agreed with the company on
that subject; and if we could suppose that in the very presence of the event, in which his family was to get $5,000 for the
payment of $17.70, he did then agree, it was certainly too late
to bind the other party, whose first news of his danger was
that he was dead.
For these reasons, notwithtanding the cautious manner in
which the judge recited his view of what had been given in evidence, and left the jury to believe it or not, we think there was
no such evidence of the existence of a valid contract as to sustain the verdict.
Judgment reversed, and case remanded with directions to set
aside the verdict, and grant a new trial.

SAVAGE, EXEOUTRIX, v. UNITED STATES.
1. The holder of treasury-notes, payable three years after date, which wero
issued under the authority of an act of July 17, 1861 (12 Stat. 259),

demanded payment in gold of the principal and interest due thereon.

The

Secretary of the Treasury refused payment in that medium, but offered
it in legai-tenler .otes.
'The holder, under protest, received the offered

