Oct. 1875.]

ROBERTS ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

41

libeflants. She improperly starboarded her helm after the yawl
was launched, and she continued to advance; whereas she should
have stopped and backed, if it was necessary to back, to prevent any forward movement.
-Decree affirmed.

ROBERTS ET AL., TRUSTEES, v.

UNITED STATES.

Contractors for the transportation of. the mails between New York and New Orleans, touching at Havana, and between Havana and Chagres, having subsequently established a direct line between New York and Chagres, which made
the passage between the latter points in a shorter time, by two days, than the
mail-ships running under the contract by way of Havana, consented to take the
Chagres and California mails outward and homeward by the direct steamers,
without requiring from the Post-Office Department a prior stipulation to pay for
the extra service, but without precluding themselves from applying to Congress
for such compensation as it might deem just and reasonable. To this arrangement the Postmaster-General assented, with the understanding that his department did not thereby become responsible for any additional expense. Application was made to Congress for equitable relief, and an act passed referring the
claim to the Court of Claims, with directions to examine the same, and determine and adjudge what, if any, amount was due for extra service. Held, that
the Court of Claims is authorized to adjudge such an allowance as is required
ex wquo a bono by all the circumstances of the case.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims.
Submitted on printed arguments by Mr. Thomas WMilson for
the appellant, and by Mr. Solicitor- @eneral Phillips for the
appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
Immediately after the conquest of California, the government of the United States, through its various departments,
made arrangements for the transportation of the mails between
that territory and the Atlantic ports by way of Panama. By
an act of Congress, passed March 3,1847, it was, amongst other
things, enacted as follows: "SECT. 4. And be it further enacted, That, from and immediately after the passage of this act, it shall be the duty of the Secretary of the Navy to contract, on the part of the government of the
United States, with A. G. Sloo, of Cincinnati, for the transportation of the United States mail from New York to New Orleans

ROBERTS ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ot.

twice a month and back, touching at Charleston (if practicable),
Savannah, and Havana; and from Havana to Chagres and back,
twice a month. The said mail to be transported in at least five
steamships of not less than fifteen hundred tons burden, and propelled by engines of not less than one thousand horse-power each,
to be constructed under the superintendence and direction of a naval
constructor in the employ of the NTavy Department, and to be so const racted as to render them convertible, at the least possible expense,
into war-steamers of the first class; and that the said steamships
shall be commanded by officers of the United States navy not below
the grade of lieutenant, who shall be selected by the contractor, with
the approval and consent of the Secretary of the Navy, and who
shall be suitably accommodated without charge to the government.
Each of said steamers shall receive on board four passed midshipmen of the United States navy, who shall serve as watch-officers,
and be suitably accommodated without charge to the government;
and each of the said steamers shall also receive on board and accommodate, without charge to the government, one agent, to be appointed
by the Postmaster-General, who shall have charge of the mails to
be transported in said steamers. Provided the Secretary of the
Navy may, at his discretion, permit a steamer of not less than six
hundred tons burden, and engines in proportion, to be employed
in the mail-service herein provided for between Havana and Chagres; provided .further, that the compensation for said service shall
not exceed the sum of $290,000, and that good and sufficient security
be required for the faithful fulfilment of the stipulations of the
contract."
In pursuance of this act, on the 20th of April, 1847, a contract was made by the Navy Department with Sloo, whereby
he agreed to build five naval steamships, capable of being converted to the purposes of naval waxfare, of which four were to
be not less than fifteen hundred tons burden, and one to be not
less than six hundred. The four larger ones were to carry the
mai's between New York and New Orleans, touching at Charleston, Savannah, and Havana, twice a month and back; and the
smaller one was to be run from Havana to Chagres and back
twice a month, carrying the mails for the Pacific. The compensation was to be $290,000 per annum, and the period of
service was to be ten years. The contract, amongst other
things, contained the following provision: -

Uct. 1875.]

ROBERTS ET AL. V.

UNITED STATES.

48

"And it is further agreed by and between the parties aforesaid,
that on tender of compensation by the said government of the
United States, not exceeding a due proportion of the pay herein
stipulated, the said A. G. Sloo, contractor, shall convey any mail
or mails of the said United States which he may be required to
convey on any steamship which he, the said Sloo, may own, run, or
control on the routes aforesaid beyond the number of trips hereir
specified."
At that time the mail-service between New York and Now
Orleans was evidently regarded as the more important; that
between Havana and Chagres being provided for by a branch
line served by a single small vessel twice a month. But after
the discovery of gold in California, and the rush thither of
emigration and trade, the aspect of things was greatly changed.
The assignees of Sloo (now represented by the appellants)
purchased additional ships, and established a direct line between New York and Chagres, which made the passage two
days sooner than was done by the mail-ships running under
the contract by way of Havana, and which, therefore, could
start two days later, and, on the return, arrive two days sooner.
By this means the private despatches by the direct line had
an advantage over communication by the mails, and some
public dissatisfaction arose in consequence. Thereupon a correspondence on the subject ensued between the contractors and
the Post-Office Department. The postmaster of New York
having, by direction of the Postmaster-General, laid before
George Law, president of. the United States Mail Steamship
Company (at that time beneficially interested in Sloo's con.
tract), a letter complaining of the existing arrangement, Mr.
Law, on the 25th June, 1851, wrote to the postmaster a letter,
in which, amongst other things, he said, "The mails for California, via Chagres, and back, are despatched
by the mail-steamships of this company twice each month, on the
days originally arranged with the department. Being required to
go and return by way of Havana, and to receive and discharge
there the mails from and for New Orleans, Charleston, &c., the
passage is usually two days longer than the direct passage to and
friom Chagres and this port.
"In addition to the mail-steamers, we despatch also, twice a

ROBERTS ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

[SUP. Ct.

month, a steamer from this port and Chagres direct. These leave
here usually two days later than the mail-steamers vid Havana, so
as to make the arrival at Chagres at about the same time. Of
course, the return steamer, with the mail from Chagres, is usually
two days later in arriving here, coming vid Havana, than the steamer
starting at the same time and coming direct. The mail to and fiom
Chagres will, therefore, be carried with greater despatch by the
direct line; while the mails for New Orleans, Charleston, &c., must
necessarily be carried by the Havana route. If the department
desires the Chagres and California mails, outward or homeward, to
be sent by the direct steamers, I shall be happy to direct the commanders of the ships to receive them on board."
This letter was communicated to the Postmaster-General,
who, in answer, declared it satisfactory, but intimated his understanding that the proposed arrangement should make "no
difference in respect to the expense of the service." This intimation was met by a reply from Mr. Law correcting any such
understanding. After explaining what the mail company proposed to do, - namely, to run their steamers twice a month each
way directly between New York and Chagres, twice between
New York and New Orleans, touching at Havana, and twice
between New Orleans and Chagres, - he said, "In expressing in my letter of the 25th ultimo the readiness of
this company to instruct the commanders of their steamers, direct
as well as by the way of Havana, to convey the California mails, if
desired by the department, it was not my intention to preclude a
claim for reasonable additional compensation for such service.
Although we desire to meet fully the requirements of the service
and the wishes of the department, it is not expected, I presume,
that the mails can be carried outward and homeward six times per
month, with the necessary additional clerks or agents, for the same
sum. for which we contract to carry them twice monthly. Still
desirous of promoting to the utmost the interest and convenience
of the public, we are entirely willing to perform the additional
service, in the confident expectation that a sense of justice will induce Congress to make such further provision as may be considered
a suitable compensation for it."
After the receipt of this letter, the Postmaster-General, on
the 7th of August, 1851, in answer to a letter of the postmaster of New York asking whether he should send the mails

Oct. 1875.]

ROBERTS ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

by the steamers going direct to Chagres, wrote as follows : "In
answer to your letter of the 7th instant, I have to say that you
will make up and forward mails by Mr. Law's direct steamers
to Chagres; with this understanding, however, that this dep art,ment does not thereby become responsible for any additional
expense."
On the 9th of August, 1851, MNarshall 0. Roberts,
on behalf of the contractors, informed the postmaster at New
York, by letter, that the mails for Chagres, both direct and vid
Havana, would be carried by the United States Mail Steamship Company upon the terms and in the manner theretofore
stated to the Post-Office Department; viz., compensation for
any extra or additional mail-service to be submitted to Congress
without requiring a prior stipulation to pay from the department. This letter being transmitted to the Postmaster-General,
with a request for directions as to sending the mails by the
direct steamers, he returned a despatch giving directions to send
them.
Upon the footing of this correspondence, the extra service by
the direct steamers was commenced on the 13th of August, 1851.
A temporary suspension of the trips having occurred from
some cause, further correspondence on the subject took place
in 1852, in which the Secretary of the Navy, as well as the
Postmaster-General, participated. But the general result was,
that the matter was left substantially in the same position as
before; namely, that, while the departments declined to make
themselves responsible for any compensation for the extra
service, the contractors were to be left free to apply to Congress for such allowance as it might deem just and reasonable.
The contractors never gave up a claim for an allowance; but
they consented to perform the service in reliance upon the
justice of Congress, and with the distinct understanding that
they should not prefer any claim against the departments. It
is unnecessary to reproduce all the correspondence that ensued.
Its general purport and effect are as stated. Mr. Law, in a
letter to the Postmaster-General dated 15th of June, 1852,
referred to his previous letter of July 21, 1851, quoting the
passage relating to compensation, in which he said, " We are
entirely willing to perform the additional service, in the confident Pxpectation that a sense of justice will induce Congress

ROBERTS ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. ot.

to make such further provision as may be considered a suitable
compensation for it;" and, to avoid any misunderstanding
which might arise from expressions contained in the Postmaster-General's communication, he adds,"While it has not been the intention of this company to hold
eitlher of the departments liable, directly or indirectly, for any
additional mail-service beyond the conditions of the contract, but
to perform it subject entirely to the decision "of Congress, I desire
raspectfully to say that I do not feel authorized to place the company in a position that would preclude it from applying for or
accepting such additional allowance as in the judgment of Congress might be considered equitable."
Upon this understanding, the service in question continued
to be performed until September, 1859; and no compensation
therefor has ever yet been allowed by Congress, although application has persistently been made.
From the tenor of this correspondence, it is clear that the
proprietors of the Sloo contract did not rely upon that clause in
it (which has been referred to) providing extra compensation
for conveying mails, when required by the government, on any
iteamship which might be run on the routes named in the contract, beyond the number of trips therein specified. Had they
relied on this clause, they would not have relinquished their
claim against the department, and consented to look to Congress. Indeed, the service performed by the steamers running
on the direct route between New York and Chagres, or Aspinwall, was not embraced in the terms of that provision. The
route was not the same, but a different one. The question,
therefore, is, whether, doing the service they did, upon the
footing on which they did it, and supposing it not to be embraced within the letter of the contract, the contractors are
entitled in law or equity to compensation for that service.
The service performed directly under the contract, and within
its terms, has all been settled for, and the accounts closed.
This is specifically found by the Court of Claims. But the
question of this extra service has never been settled, but is still
open and undetermined. Application, as before stated, was
persistently made to Congress for an equitable allowance; but,
for some rcason or other, the subject was always postponed cr

Oct. 1875.]

ROBERTS ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

delayed, until finally, on the 14th of July, 1870, Congress
passed an act entitled "An Act for the relief of the trustees of
Albert G. Sloo," the tenor of which is as follows: "Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the
claim of the trustees of Albert G. Sloo, for compensation for services in carrying the United States mails by steamers direct between
New York and Chagres, and New Orleans and Chagres, in addition
to the regular service required under the contract made between
the said Albert G. Sloo and the United States, be, and the same is
hereby, referred to the Court of Claims; and the said court is
hereby directed to examine the same, and determine and adjudge
whether any, and, if any, what amount is due said trustees for said
extra service; provided that the amount to be awarded by said
court shall be upon the basis of the value of carrying other firstclass freight of like quantity with the mails actually carried between
the same ports at the same time."
In the mean time, several years prior to the passage of this
act (to wit, in 1866), as soon as the disturbances incident to the
civil war had been allayed, the appellants had presented their
claim before the Court of Claims. But they were met by
embarrassments arising from the peculiar form which their
stipulations with the government had assumed. They had
agreed to submit to the arbitrament of Congress, and Congress
had never acted in their case. Under these circumstances, the
act referred to was passed. The claimants thereupon filed an
amended petition, setting up the act.
The counsel for the government contend, that, whilst this act
might be used to support proceedings commenced after its
passage, it cannot aid proceedings already commenced. We
think, that under the peculiar circumstances of this case, its
well-known history, and its frequent consideration by Congress
itself, the act was intended to validate the application to the
Court of Claims then in progress, and to refer the whole
matter to that court. It enacts that the claim be, and it hereby
is, referred to the Court of Claims; and that the said court
is hereby directed to examine the same, and determine and
adjudge, &c. The words of that act are apposite to validate
the proceedings already commenced; and, as those proceedings

ROBERTS ET AL. V. UNITED STATE.

[u Ct.
C
[Sup.

had in view the very object sought by the act, it would be a
strain of technicality to turn the claimants out of court, and to
compel them to commence anew.
In view, then, of the circumstances and history of this case,
the correspondence between the parties, and the act of Congress
referred to, what are the rights of the appellants?
If this were a controversy between private parties, we do not
think that there could be a particle of doubt that the contractor
would be entitled to demand compensation upon a quantum
meruit for the performance of the service in question. Circumstances arose after the performance of the contract had commenced, which neither of the parties had anticipated or dreamed
of, requiring an increase in the amount of service, and a change
in the manner of performing it, which could not be brought
under the literal provisions of the contract. But it was of the
greatest consequence that the service should be performed; and
the contractors, under the exigencies of the case, were willing
to depart from the literal stipirlations of the instrument, and
do the necessary work, relying upon Congress to provide suitable compensation. As before said, if this were a controversy
between individuals, there could not be the slightest hesitation
on the subject. It would present a clear case of departure
from the terms of a contract by the mutual consent of the
parties, and the performance of extras by the contractor, for
which he would be entitled to the reasonable value of the
work performed. The service was performed on one side; it
was accepted and received on the other; and, whilst the agents of
the government declined to incur any specific responsibilities,
they agreed that the question of compensation should be settled
between the contractors and their principal.
This is, in short, the whole case; and whilst, as a general
thing, it may be true that government ought not to be bound
unless prescribed rules and forms are complied with, yet where
a necessary public service has been performed at the request
of the proper government agents and under the expectation of
compensation, and with reliance upon Congress to fix the
amount, and where Congress, upon application made to it, has
referred the matter to the Court of Claims, we think that that
court is authorized to make and adjudge such an allowance as

Oct. 1875.]

FARRNSWORTH ET AL. V. MIRN.

& PAC. R.R. Co. 49

is required, ex cequo et bono, by all the circumstances of the
case.

It is true that Congress did not determine, in express terms,
that the parties were entitled to any compensation, but referred
it to the court to decide "whether any, and, if any, what amount
is due." Still we think it is plain that Congress principally intended to refer to the adjudication of the Court of Claims the
amount of compensation to which the claimants were entitled,
and for that purpose prescribed the principle by which it should
be estimated; but even if it was intended to refer the whole
subject, the right to compensation, as well as the amount, the
claimants, under the circumstances of the case, are, in our judgment, entitled to compensation.
Te decree is reversed, and the record remanded, with directions to proceed according to law, and award compensation
to the claimants upon the principles directed by the act of
1870.
MR. JUSTICE SwA =L, with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE
DAVIs and MR. JUSTICE STRONG, dissenting.
I dissent from the judgment of the court in this case.

In

my opinion, it makes a contract where the parties made none.

FARNSWORTH ET AL., TRUSTEES, v. MINNESOTA AND PACIFIC
RA.IROAD
1. On the 3d of

COMPANY ET AL.

Larch, 1857 (11 Stat. 195), Congress passed an act granting

certain lands to the Territory of Minnesota, for the purpose of aiding in
the construction of several lines of railroad between different points in the
Territory. The act declared that the lands should be exclusively applied
to the construction of that road on account of which they were granted,
and to no other purpose whatever; and that they should be disposed of by
the Territory or future State only as the work progressed, and only in the
manner following: that is to say, a quantity of land, not exceeding one
hundred and twenty sections for each of the roads, and included within a

continuous length of twenty miles of the road, might be sold; and when the
governor of the Territory or the future State should certify to the Secretary
of the Interior that any continuous twenty miles of any of the roads were
completed, then another like quantity of the land granted might be sold;
and so, from time to time, until the roads were completed. Held, that the
VOL. I.

4

