TERRY v. TUBMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

The fact that the sale was made by the mortgagees, acting
as trustees and performing the functions of a master, does not
change the principle involved, nor affect its application.
It appears that a question was raised in the court below as to
the right of the unsecured creditors of the Kalmia Mills to
share with Markey & Co. in the proceeds of this note. As
there can be no such proceeds, we need not consider that subiect.
.Decree affirmed.

TERRY

v.

TuBmAw.

1. Where the charter of a bank contained a provision binding the individual
property of its stockholders for the ultimate redemption of its bills in proportion to the number of shares held by them respectively, the liability of
the stockholders arises when the bank refuses or ceases to redeem and is
notoriously and continuously insolvent.

2. Such insolvency having occurred prior to June 1, 1865, an action against a stockholder, not commenced by Jan. 1, 1870, is barred by the Statute of Limitations of the State of Georgia of March 16, 1869.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Georgia.
_Ir. H~arvey Terry for the plaintiff in error.
MiJr. William H. Hull, contra.
MR. JUSTIcE HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff, a citizen of Georgia, brings his action to recover
from Mrs. Tubman the sum of $5,400. He alleges that he
holds the circulating notes of the Bank of Augusta, Ga., to
that amount; and that the defendant was, in June, 1862, and
thenceforth, a holder of three hundred and seven shares of the
stock of that bank, of the nominal value of $100 per share.
The Bank of Augusta was chartered Dec. 27, 1845, and its
charter contained the following provision:" SECT. 3. That the individual property of the stockholders in
said bank shall be bound for the ultimate redemption ef the bills
issued by said bank in proportion to the number of shares held by
them respectively; and, in case of a failure of said bank, all trans.
fers of stock made within six months prior to a failure or refusal

Oct. 1875.]

TERRY v. TUBbrAN.

on the part of said bank to redeem its liabilities in specie when
required shall be void, and the private property of the individual
or individuals transferring said stock shall be liable for the redemption of the bills of said bank, as above stated."
The defendant pleaded the Statute of Limitations, alleging
that all of the bank-notes sued on were issued by the Augusta
bank prior to June 1, 1865; and that, before that date, the bank
had become insolvent, unable to meet its liabilities, had voluntarily stopped payment and ceased to do business, and so continued down to the time of the plea. To this plea the plaintiff
demurred. The Circuit Court rendered judgment for the defendant on this plea, from which the plaintiff brings his writ
of error to this court.
The Statute of Limitations of the State of Georgia was passed
on the 16th March, 1869, and is as follows, so far as this action
is concerned; viz.: "SEci 3. And be it further enacted, That all actions on bonds or
other instruments under seal, and all suits for the enforcement of
rights accruing to individuals or corporations under the statutes or
acts of incorporation, or in any way by operation of law, which
accrued prior to 1st June, 1865, not now barred, shall be brought
by 1st January, 1870, or the right of the party, plaintiff or claimant,
and all right of action for its enforcement, shall be for ever barred.
" SECT. 6. That all other actions on contracts, express or implied,
or upon any debt or liability whatsoever due the public, or a corporation, or a private individual or individuals, which accrued
prior to the 1st June, 1865, and are not now barred, shall be
brought by 1st January, 1870, or both the right and the right of
action to enforce it shall be for ever barred. All limitations hereinbefore expressed shall apply as well to courts of equity as courts of
law; and the limitations shall take effect in all cases mentioned in
this act, whether the right of action had actually accrued prior to
the 1st June, 1865, or was then only inchoate and imperfect, if the
liability was then in existence."
contract o6The plea demurred to alleges, and it is to be here assumed to
be true, that the bank-notes held by the plaintiff had been
issued by the bank prior to June 1, 1865, - the time specified in
the limitation act just quoted. It is further alleged, and to be
taken as true, that, prior to that time, the bank had become

TERRY v. TUBmAN.

[Sup. Ot.

notoriously insolvent, unable to meet its liabilities, and had
ceased to do business.
The question is, whether the right of action now sought to
be enforced had, on or before June 1, 1865, by means of these
facts, accrued to the plaintiff. If it had, the present action is
barred by the statute; for it can hardly be contended that this
is not one of the actions embraced within the terms of the
statute.
The plaintiff insists that no cause of action against the stockholder existed on the 1st of June, 1865, and not until the bank
had made its assignment in 1866, its affairs had been administered, and a demand of payment of the bills had been made
upon the bank, and had been refused. His fourth point is
this

-

"4th, That the liability of said defendant stockholder (had not
attached, and did not attach, under said charter) to pay said bank
bills before the assignment of said bank and the assets of said bank
had been administered and applied to payment of its debts, and
did not attach until demand for payment was made on said bank
bills; and, therefore, said action did not accrue before the first day
of June, 1865, but accrued since the assignment of said bank, and
the administration of the assets, establishing the ultimate liability
of said stockholders, and since the breach of contract to pay on
demand, -to wit, on the day of commencement of this suit."
In this point the plaintiff alleges that the defendant's liability did attach when the assets of the bank had been administered and demand of payment made upon the bank, and that
the defendant was not liable until that time.
The facts upon which he claims the benefit of this legal
result he alleges in his complaint as follows: " And your petitioner avers that the said president, directors, and
corn )any of the Bank of Augusta afterwards - to wit, on the
sixth day of January, A. D. 1866 - assigned and conveyed, for the
benefit of its creditors, all of its property, both real and personal,
its choses in action, claims and demands of every kind whatever,
for the payment of its debts, in redemption of its bills, and so far
as it could do so by its own act, and for all the purposes of the payment of its debts in the enforcement of the collection thereof, by
suit or otherwise, and for the purpose of its creation, has become

Oct. 1875.]

TERRY v.

TuBmA.

and is a dissolved corporation; that it has no place of business,
rendering a demand for payment of said bills and a suit against
said corporation wholly futile and useless."
There is in the complaint no allegation that payment of the
bills has ever been demanded of the bank; but presentment for
payment is excused on the ground that the condition of the
bank rendered a demand useless. There is no averment that a
judgment had been obtained against the bank, or that a suit
had been commenced upon the notes. It is excused on the
ground that it had assigned all of its property, and was substantially dissolved.
There is no averment that its assets had been adliinistered
and applied to the payment of its debts in any other manner
than that it was insolvent, and had made an assignment of its
property.
The plaintiff's allegations fall far short of what, in his points,
he insists is necessary to constitute a cause of action.
The concurrence of the facts alleged in the complaint and in
the manner indicated brings into operation, as he insists, the
provision of the charter that the individual property of the
defendant is bound for the redemption of the bills of the bank,
and authorizes the present suit against the defendant.
Upon the theory of the complaint before us, the ultimate
redemption, for which the property of the stockholder is by
statute made liable, is not that amount or proportion remaining after the assets of the bank have been applied, so far as
they will go, in payment of the bills; for there is no averment
that the trust under the assignment has been closed, or that a
large proportion of the amount due upon the bills will not be
paid from that source. The plaintiff, in his present suit, insists
that the liability of the defendant has accrued to him for the
reasons, 1st, That the bank did, in 1866, assign all of its property for the payment of its debts; 2d, That thereby, for all
purposes of the payment of its debts, it has ceased to exist as a
corporation; and, 3d, That a demand of payment and a suit
against the bank for the recovery of the bills would be useless.
These facts create a liability, he insists, which justify a suit
against the defendant commenced in 1872. If they do not, he
shows no cause of action in his complaint.

TERRY v. TUBMIAN.

[Sup. CL

He has, however, demurred to the defendant's plea, which
averred that the same facts existed, and justified the commence-ment of a suit on the first day of June, 1865; in other words,
that his right of action had accrued prior to June 1, 1865, and
that the same is barred by the statute quoted.
Thuis, when the plaintiff avers that the bank made an assignment of all its property, and thereby ceased to exist as a
corporation, the defendant makes an equivalent averment when
he alleges that before the first day of June, 1865, the bank
had notoriously stopped payment and ceased to transact business, and has thenceforth so continued. When the plaintiff
alleges thqt for the reasons stated a demand upon the bank
for payment, or a suit against it, would be useless, the defendant makes an equivalent averment when he alleges that on
the first day of June, 1865, the bank "had become notoriously
insolvent, and unable to meet its liabilities."
It seems to be quite clear that the same allegations made by
the plaintiff to show that he had a cause of action when he,
brought this suit in 1872 are found in the plea he has demurred to, alleging that the cause of action was in existence
on the first day of June, 1865. If his complaint is good, the
plea is good; if the plea is bad, the complaint is bad.
A demurrer seeks the first fault in pleading, and it is with
the plaintiff that the first error exists, if error there be.
We are of the opinion, also, that the facts alleged in the
plea are sufficient to make it a good plea; in other words,
that the cause of action, so far as there is a separate and distinct right of action in favor of each bill-holder, was in force,
on the 1st of June, 1865.
We are of the opinion that it is not necessary first to exhaust the assets of the bank by legal proceeding. The case is
not so much like that of the guaranty of the "collection" of
a debt, where the previous proceeding against the principal
debtor is implied, as it is like a guaranty of "payment," where
resort may be had at once to the guarantor without a previous
WadswortA v. Wadswortl4
proceeding against the principal.
11 Wend. 100; 17 id. 103; 2 Pars. on Bills and Notes, pp. 142,
143.
A judgment and execution unsatisfied are evidence of insol-

Oct. 1875.1

HOFFMAN V. HANCOCK MUT. LIFE ITs.

Co.

161

vency, of inability to collect. They are, however, evidence
only; and the fact may be established as well by other evidence,
among other modes, by an assignment and continued suspen-.
sion of business, or other notorious indications.
Camden v.
Doremis, 3 How. 533; .Reynolds v. Douglas, 12 Pet. 497; 2 Am.
Lead. Cas. 134-136.
We think the liability for the "ultimate redemption" of the
bills, if properly enforced, arises when the bank refuses or
ceases to redeem, and is notoriously and continuously insolvent.
lfimber v. Bank of Fulton, 49 Ga. 419, is a decision directly
in point by the Supreme Court of the State of Georgia.
The case of Pollardv. Bailey, 20 Wall. 520, is an authority
against the maintenance of a separate action by one creditor
who seeks to obtain his entire debt to the possible exclusion of
others similarly situated. The proper proceeding is in equity,
where all the claims can be presented, all the liabilities of the
stockholders ascertained, and a just distribution made.
Judgment affirmed.

HOrA.I" v. JoHN HA cocx MuTuAL LEE IxsuRA Cr,
CoMPANY.
An agreement between the agent of an insurance company and an applicant for
insurance, whereby the former; without authority from the.company, accepted,
by way of satisfaction of a premium payable in money, articles of personal
property, is a fraud upon the company, and no valid contract against it arises
therefrom.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Ohio.
31r. James A. Garfield, for the appellant, cited Insurance
Company v. Wilkinson, 13 Wall. 222; Mlasters v. Madison
County Alert Insurance Co., 11 Barb. 624; M1ay on Ins., sects.
134, 143; Taylor v. 31erehants' Fire Ins. Co., 9 How. 39012 N. Y. 54; 20 Barb. 468; 2 Ins. Law Jour. 23; 25 Barb.
189; iallock v. Commercial Ins. Co., 2 Dutch. 268; 25 Conn.
207; id. 542; 43 Barb. 351; Cooper v. Pacific, 3 J. C. R. 254
VOL. 11.

11

