Oct. 1875.]

O'BRIEN v. WELD ET AL.

services, except the stipulated monthly compensation designated
as pay. This is substantially the conclusion reached by the
late Attorney-General, Mr. Hoar, after full consideration of
the statutes bearing upon the question (Opinions of AttorneysGeneral, vol. xiii. pp. 198,199) ; and such, we are informed, has
been the uniform ruling of the War Department.
The conclusion we have thus reached renders it unnecessary
to determine whether the case of the petitioner is covered by
the joint resolution of Congress of March 1, 1870, forbidding
the payment of moneys withheld from a deserter from the volunteer forces, unless the record of his desertion has been cancelled because made erroneously, and contrary to the facts.
Judgment reversed.

O'BRiEN v. WED ET AL.
1. W. & Co., having recovered judgment in a State court, sued out an execution thereon, which was levied upon the property of the defendant. He was
subsequently declared a bankrupt, and an injunction issued by the District
Court of the United States restraining W. & Co. and the sheriff from disposing of that property. W. & Co. thereupon filed their petition in the
latter court, praying that the injunction be so modified as to allow the
sheriff to sell. An order was made granting the prayer of the petition, prescribing the time and manner of the sale, and directing that the proceeds
should be brought into the District Court. This order was served upon the
sheriff, who, pursuant thereto, sold the property, and paid the proceeds into
court. Held, that the sheriff was not liable to W. & Co. for not paying the
money to them upon their execution.
2. The question, whether, under the Bankrupt Act, the District Court had
authority to make the order, and the decision of the highest State court I
adverse to that authority, are sufficient to sustain the :Federal jurisdiction.

ERRoR to the Supreme Court of the State of New York.

31r. A. JT TanderpoeZ for the plaintiff in error.
MIr. Granville P. Rawes for the defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE HUNJT delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action brought to recover $4,404.72 collected by
the plaintiff in error, as sheriff of the city and county of New
York, under three executions, two of which were issued on
judgments entered in favor of the defendants in error against
Frederick Wiltse and Albert Wiltse jointly and severally, and
VOL. Ir.

6

O'BmIEN v. WELD ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

one of which was issued on a judgment entered in their favor
against Frederick Wiltse alone.
The defence relied upon is, that the plaintiff in error, under
certain orders made by the United States District Court for the
Southern District of New York, in a proceeding in bankruptcy
against Frederick Wiltse, paid over to the clerk of that court
the moneys arising from the sale of the property levied on by
him under said execution.
Several points have been argued, which it will not be neces
sary to consider under the view we take of the principal question in the case.
On the 24th of March, 1870, Frederick Wiltse was thrown
into bankruptcy upon the petition of one of his creditors. Prior
to this time, Weld & Co., the defendants in error, had obtained
against the Wiltses the judgments above mentioned; and executions upon the same were in the hands of O'Brien, who was
then the sheriff of the city and county of New York.
The petitioning creditor in bankruptcy, on the 24th of
March, 1870, obtained from the District Court an injunction
order, directed to Weld & Co., and to the sheriff, O'Brien,
restraining them from disposing of Frederick Wiltse's property
until the further order of the court. This order was duly
served on Weld & Co. and on the sheriff.
On the sixth day of July, 1870, Weld & Co. presented a
petition to the District Court, asking that the injunction be so
modified as to allow the sheriff to sell the property of Frederick
Wiltse levied on by the sheriff previously to filing the petition
in bankruptcy. On this petition of Weld & Co. an order was
made, granting its prayer, directing the time and manner of
sale, and ordering, that, after deducting costs and charges, the
avails of the sale should be brought into the District Court to
await its further orders. This order was entered with the
clerk of the District Court by and upon the motion of the
counsel of Weld & Co., and served upon the sheriff.
A sale was made in pursuance thereof ; and the money result
ing from the sale was paid into court by the sheriff, as therein
required. Weld & Co. now sue the sheriff for not paying this
money to them upon their executions, instead of paying it into
court. To a plea setting up the facts above stated a demurrer

Oct. 1875.]

O'BRIEN V. WELD ET AL.

was interposed by the plaintiffs, which was sustained by the
Supreme Court and Court of Appeals of the State of New
York, and judgment rendered against the sheriff. The writ of
error before us is to review that judgment.
In support of this judgment, it is contended that the United
States District Court is a court of limited jurisdiction; that it
has not the power to divest a State court of its jurisdiction;
that the title to the property levied on by virtue of the judgment and execution from the State courts was superior to that
derived from the orders of the District Court; and that the
orders directing the payment of the money in question into the
District Court were without jurisdiction, and void.
It is further contended in support of this judgment, that, if
the bankrupt court had authority to take the custody and control of the property from the State court, it could only do so by
a suit at law or in equity, and not by summary proceedings;
and that an order made in such summary proceeding is absolutely void. To this point is cited the case of Marshall v.
Knox, 16 Wall. 551.
If these propositions are conceded to the fullest extent, the
case of the defendants in error is not aided thereby.
In MIarshall v. Knox, supra, the sheriff had seized and held
certain property at the suit of Marshal against Smith and
others. Proceedings in bankruptcy were taken against Smith;
and his assignees, by rule obtained from the District Court and
served upon the sheriff, compelled the delivery of the property
into the District Court, to be disposed of under the bankrupt
proceedings. We held that the District Court had no jurisdiction to proceed by rule where neither Marshal nor the sheriff
was a party to the proceeding, and where no process had been
served upon either of them. Smith v. Mason, 14 Wall. 419,
was a similar case; and it was there held that the assignee in
such case, if he desired to obtain the property held under State
authority, must litigate his claim by a plenary suit either at
law or in equity, and that it could not be done by a mere rule.
We adhere to these decisions.
This court, however, has never held that where the plaintiff
in the execution himself took the proceeding in the bankrupt
court, and there obtained rules and orders, he was not bound

O'BRIEN V.

WELD ET AL.

[Sup. Ot.

by them: the contrary is plainly intimated in the language
used by the court in the cases cited. So the contrary has been
expressly held in The People ex rel. Jennys v. Brennan,reported
10 N. Y. Sup. Ct. (3 Hun) 666, and in 12 Nat. Bk. Reg.
567. There the parties appeared in court, and consented to an
order of reference to a register to determine the disposition of
the money. The execution creditor, on appearing before the
register, took the objection that the assignee should have filed
a bill, and that the court was -without jurisdiction. Recognizing the authority of Mltarshall v. Knox, supra, the Supreme
Court of New York held that the voluntary appearance in the
bankrupt court, and consent to the order of reference, gave
jurisdiction, and that the payment by the sheriff under the
order of the register was valid.
The case we are considering falls under the same principle.
Weld & Co., the plaintiffs in the execution, made an application in their own name to the bankrupt court. They obtained
an order that certain notices of sale in addition to those required
by the statute of New York should be given by the sheriff;
that he should make sale of the property levied on by him, and,
after paying certain expenses, should deposit the proceeds of
the sale in the bankrupt court, to await its further order. This
order was entered by the plaintiffs in the execution; served on
the sheriff by them; and, in pursuance of its direction, the
sheriff made the sale, and deposited the money in the bankrupt
court. That the plaintiffs in the executions under these facts
can maintain a suit against the sheriff for paying the money
into court in pursuance of the order obtained by them, instead
of paying it to them, is sustained by no authority, and is in violation of the principles of right and justice.
In many particulars, and where it is not in violation of his
legal duty, the sheriff is deemed the agent of the plaintiff in
the execution. The directions of the plaintiff will not only
excuse the sheriff from his general duty, but ordinarily he is
bound to obey such directions. Boot v. Wagner, 30 N. Y. I7.
If the execution creditor, upon the claim of the assignee, had
simply directed the sheriff, without the form of an order of the
court, to pay the money into bankruptcy, the sheriff would
have been justified in complying with the direction. A party

Oct. 1875.]

CHEATHAM ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

cannot even encourage an act to be done, and then exercise a
legal right in hostility to such act, to the injury of the party
obeying his intimations. Swain v. Seamen, 9 Wall. 254, 274.
Especially is he bound, when, as in the present case, his
direction is clothed -with the solemnity of a legal proceeding,
and the money is received and distributed under the forms of
]a w.
The question, whether, under the Bankrupt Act, the District
Court had authority to make the order in question, and the
decision of the State court thereon, are sufficient to sustain the
Federal jurisdiction.
Judgment reversed.

CHEATHA.

ET AL. V. UITED STATES.

A party, against whom an assessment was made in 1865 for an income-tax, appealed therefrom to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, who, Oct. 7,1867,
set it aside, and ordered a new one, which was made March 15, 1868. The sum
thereby assessed, with interest and penalty, was paid in instalments. Suit to
recover the money so paid was brought Jan. 15, 1869. Held,that the party
had no right of action, inasmuch as he failed to sue within six months from
the date of the decision of the commissioner on the appeal, and had taken no
appeal from the second assessment.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Middle District of Tennessee.
31tfr. Henry Cooper for the plaintiff in error.
.Mr. Assistant Attorney- General -Edwin B. Smith, contra.

MR. JusTicE MmLER delivered the opinion of the court.

Plaintiffs in error paid to the defendant, who was collector
of internal revenue, the sum of $32,074 under protest, and
brought their suit to recover the money, on the ground that
the tax, as assessed, was illegal. It was assessed as income-tax
for the year 1864 against the female plaintiff, who was then a
widow, named Acklin. The tax originally assessed amounted
to $99,726. From this assessment Mrs. Acklin appealed to
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, who, on the 7th of
October, 1867, rendered his decision, setting aside that assessment, and directing the local assessor to make a new one, and

