-684

GARSED V.

GARSED

v.

BEALL ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

BEALi ET AL.

This case involves only disputed questions of fact. It was heard here upon the
pleadings, proofs, and the findings of the jury, in response to the issues sent
down to be tried at law. Held, that issues of the kind are properly directed
where such questions are involved in great doubt by conflicting or insufficient
evidence. Held further, that such findings are regarded as influential in an
appellate court, but they are not conclusive.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Georgia.
The case was argued by 11Tr. Bobert Toombs for the appellant,
and by Hr. Benjamin H. Hill for the appellee.

MR. JusTIcE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Peculiar as the controversy is, it will be necessary to make
some reference to the pleadings, in order to understand its
origin, and the precise character of the questions presented
here in the assignment of errors.
Two of the complainants -to wit, Jeremiah Beall and William
A. Beall - claimed, in the original bill of complaint, filed in'the
Superior Court of the State, to be joint owners with the other
appellee, in equal proportions, of eight thousand six hundred
and ninety-four bales of cotton; and the second complainant
claimed that he was a joint owner with the aforesaid appellee,
of the other parcel of cotton, consisting of one thousand one
hundred bales: making, in all, nine thousand seven hundred and
ninety-four bales of cotton, of the alleged value of $2,000,000.
They not only claimed to be the owners of the cotton, in the
proportions described, but they claimed that John Garsed and
George Schley, therein named as respqndents, had, at that
date, commenced to seize and remove the same, for their own
benefit, under some pretended military orders, and that Thomas
S. Metcalf, the other part owner, was deterred, by fear of bodily
harm, from maling any effort to prevent such seizure and removal, or to join with them in asserting the plain and undoubted
right of the described parties to the joint ownership of the
property.
Suffice it to say, without entering into details, that the- bill
of complaint exhibits a detailed description of all the allegedl

0,-t. 1,675.]

(.ARSED V. BEALL ET AL.

pretences, and proceeds to allege that the same, one and all, are
without any legal or equitable foundation whatever.
Two other parcels of cotton, it is admitted, were sold by said
Metcalf to the first-named respondent; but the complainants
allege that he never possessed any authority to sell any portion
of the cotton in question, and they aver that he never did make
any offer of the same to the respondent. Voluntary recognition of the pretended contract being refused, the respondent
applied to the military authorities of the district to enforce the
same; and it appears that the military authorities decided that
the cotton had been sold to the respondent, as he claimed, and
that they promulgated an order that the supposed contract of
sale should be carried into effect.
Sufficient appears to warrant the conclusion that it was under
that order that the respondents commenced to seize and remove
the cotton; and it appears that the complainants contested the
legality of that order, and prayed the court in which the bill
of complaint was filed to restrain. and enjoin the respondents
from removing the cotton, and from all attempts to take possession of the same, and to abstain from all interference with the
cotton until the final hearing of the cause.
Pursuant to the prayer of the bill of complaint, a temporary
injunction was granted. Service was made, and the respondents appeared and filed separate answers.
Ownership of the cotton, as alleged in the bill of complaint,
is admitted by the first-named respondent; but he sets up the
defence that he purchased the same of the other respondent,
and that the other respondent was authorized to sell the same
by Thomas S. Metcalf, who was one of the joint owners. Detailed reply to every allegation of the bill of complaint is set
forth in the answer, which need not be reproduced.
Apart from that, the respondent first named prayed that he
may have the decree of the court in his favor, and alleged that
it was evident that a recovery of damages in a suit at law, for
and on account of the breach of the contract committed by the
complainants, would not be an adequate compensation for the
non-performance of the same; and he also prayed that the complainants may be ordered, by the decree of the court, to per.
form the contract, and if any thing prevents it, that they may

686

GARSED

v.

BEALL ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

be ordered, directed, and adjudged to respond in damages to
the respondent, to an amount which will compensate him as
fully as if specific performance of the contract had been completely carried into effect, and that the issues presented in the
pleadings may be, fully and fairly, and without multiplication
of actions, adjudicated between him and the complainants.
Most of the allegations in the answer of the other principal
respondent, so far as respects the pretended sale of the cotton,
correspond with the allegations in the answer of the first-named
respondent. Metcalf was also made a party respondent, and he
appeared and filed an answer, in which he admitted, in substance and effect, that the allegations of the bill of complaint
were correct.
Proofs were taken on both sides, but the counsel of the complainants, in vacation, before the cause came to final hearing,
filed a motion in the clerk's office, dismissing the suit, to which
motion the first-named respondent objected. Hearing upon
the objection was had, and the court finally decided that the
bill of complaint was properly dismissed, but that the answer
of the first-named respondent, being in the nature of a crossbill, must, under the law of the State, be retained for the purpose of adjudicating the question of relief prayed therein by
that respondent in the original bill of complaint, and that he,
the respondent, by those allegations, made himself complainant, and that the complainants in the original bill thereby
became and are made the respondents, as in a cross-bill. Atta
way v. Dyer, 8 Ga. 189; Code (Ga.), sect. 4181.
Due application was subsequently made by the complainant
in the cross-bill, that the cause be removed into the Circuit
Court of the United States; and the record shows that the motion was granted, and that the order of removal was carried
into effect, so far as respects the cross-bill, as constituted under
the decision of the State court.
New pleadings, in such a case, should have been filed in the
Circuit Court, and such, it would seem, were the views of the
ajpellees, as they submitted. a motion that the cause be not
ehtertained in the Circuit Court; but the parties subsequently
eitered into stipulations, in respect to the conduct of the cause,
-hich'authorized the conclusion that all such objections are

Oct. 1875.]

GARSED

v.

BEALL ET AL.

waived by the parties. Enough appears to warrant that conclusion, in the fact that proofs taken in the original suit were
in some instances brought forward by stipulation, and made a
part of the record in the Circuit Court; and in the more important fact, that the parties made respondents in the cross-bill
appeared in the Circuit Court, and filed separate answers.
Reference will first be made to the answer of William A.
Beall. He alleges that all the cotton, except the one thousand
one hundred bales, was bought by Jeremiah Beall in his own
name, under an arrangement between the purchaser and the
other two respondents, that he, Jeremiah, should buy, store,
and control, and dispose of the cotton in his own name, as if
sole owner; that William A. Beall should negotiate loans for
all the money needed, except what the purchaser might advance; and that the other respondent should give credit to the
paper of the party contracting to furnish the money, or discount
the notes of his firm for that purpose.
Subsequently, sales of the cotton purchased were to be made
by the designated purchaser, as he should see fit; and the alleged
stipulation was, that the proceeds of the sale should be applied
to the extinguishment of the loans, and that the profits should
be divided equally between the parties. Sales sufficient to pay
all the loans contracted for the purchase of the cotton had
been made, before the present controversy arose, except the
advances made by the purchaser, and a few small debts, amounting in all to about $200,000; and the same respondent avers that
his interest in the cotton, and that of the last-named appellee.
were only silent interests in the accounts to be rendered on final
settlement, the other party having the sole right and power of
purchasing, preserving, and disposing of the cotton in his own
individual name, as the sole owner.
Other defences are also set up in the answer, as follows: (2.)
That Schley was not the agent of Metcalf, nor of himself, no
of the purchaser of the cotton; nor was he himself or Metcalf
authorized to sell the same or any part thereof, nor to employ
or appoint a broker or agent to sell or dispose of the same.
(3.) That the appellant never purchased the cotton of any one,
and that he well knew that neither Schley nor Metcalf possessed
any authority to sell the cotton upon' any terms whatever.

S688

GARSED v. BEALL ET AL.

PSup. Ct.

Separate answer was also filed by Jeremiah Beall, to the
effect following: That all the cotton, except the one thousand
one hundred bales, was purchased by him in his own name, and
that it was in his sole and exclusive possession and control, and
that neither of the other respondents had any authority whatever to sell or dispose of the same.
Appearance was also entered by Thomas S. Metcalf, in the
Circuit Court, and he also filed an answer, in which he denied
all the material allegations of the appellant in respect to the
pretended purchase of the cotton, and averred, in the most
explicit and positive manner, that he never offered to sell the
cotton either to Schley or the appellant, as alleged by the latter in his answers to the original bill of complaint.
Voluminous proofs were taken by both parties in the Circuit Court; and on the 14th of May, 1869, it was ordered that
the commission for taking testimony be closed, and that the
cause be set down for hearing. Such hearing was subsequently
had before the district judge, sitting in the Circuit Court; and
he delivered an elaborate opinion, in which he discussed most
of the matters of law and fact involved in the case, without
announcing any final conclusion as to the rights of the parties.
Instead of that, he entered an order in the cause, to the effect
that certain prescribed issues, formally set forth in the transcript, should be tried by a jury, and prescribed certain rules,
and regulations to be observed by the parties in conducting the
trial.
Pursuant to that order, a jury was subsequently called; and
the transcript shows that the parties appeared, and that all the
issues framed by the court were duly submitted to their determination. These issues were framed by the district judge, sitting in the Circuit Court; but the transcript shows that the
circuit judge presided at the trial of the same, and that the jury,
by their verdict, made a response to each issue. All of the
findings were in favor of the respondents; and it appears that
both the circuit and the district judges concurred in the final
decree, which is, that the case be dismissed with costs, including the cross-bill. Immediate appeal was taken by the complainant, in the cross-bill, to this court.
Five principal errors are assigned, as follows: (1.) That the

Oct. 1875.]

GARSED

v.

IEALL -ET AL.

court below erred in dismissing the case, including the crossbill. (2.) That the court erred in holding that there was no
valid contract for the sale of the cotton. (3.) That the court
erred in holding that the code of the State required that the
authority of the alleged agent must be in writing. (4.) That
the court erred in holding that the contract for the sale of the
three parcels of cotton in this case was not an entire contract.
(5.) That the court erred in not admitting the statement of the
agent to prove that he received authority from Metcalf to sell
the cotton in controversy.
Years of litigation have ensued since the original bill of complaint was filed in the State court, but the court here is unanimously of the opinion that the decision of the controversy
must turn chiefly upon the issues of fact involved in the pleadings; and in that view of the case it becomes necessary to
advert, with some more particularity, to the preliminary transactions out of which the controversy arose.
Cotton in bales to a very large amount was collected under
the orders of a Confederate officer, and was piled in certain
fields adjacent to the city of Augusta, to be burned in case
our army should approach that city. Certain quantities of
cotton belonging to the appellee Metcalf were collected for
that purpose under those orders; but our army did not enter
Augusta, and the cotton was left where it was deposited by the
Confederate military forces. Of course it was much exposed;
and Metcalf and Schley entered into an agreement by which
the latter undertook to remove as much of the cotton belonging to the former as he could, to a place of safety, and in consideration of such service he was to be entitled to one-third of
the quantity so removed and saved. Twenty-five hundrecl
bales were, by that contract and one other of a like character,
saved to the owner, he being entitled to two-thirds of the cotton saved by the other parties to the contract.
How much time was consumed in the operation does not
appear; but it does appear that the appellant was in Augusta
about that time to buy cotton, and that Metcalf and Schley
agreed to sell to him the cotton belonging to them which was
Schley and the appellant were
saved by that contract.
acquainted; and it appears that the former offered the cottom
VOL. 11.

44

GARSED, V. BEALL ET AL.

[Sul). 01

to the latter, and that the latter desired to purchase it if he
could have some indulgence, which was finally given him by
Schley, in pursuance of an arrangement between the owners of
the cotton.
Beyond controversy, that matter was amicably arranged; and
it was during one of these interviews that Metcalf informed
the appellant of the existence of another large lot of cottou,
stored in the name of another party, in the south-western part
of the State, in which he, the informant, as he represented, had
aa interest, and which, as the informant believed, could be
bought in cash for the same price.
Evidence was also introduced which shows that Metcalf
handed to Schley a memorandum in writing, touching that
large lot, and that the lot therein described contained nine
thousand seven hundred and ninety-four bales, and that the
:same was deposited or stored at the several places named in
-the memorandum exhibited in the transcript. Appended to
%hememorandum was the following: "Believed to be in very
good order as a whole lot, and to average five hundred pounds
to the bale." Speaking of the bales, he says, "They belong
to, and were bought by, a large planter in the south-west part
of the State, and can this day be bought for twenty cents a
pound in greenbacks. They are mostly crop-lots entire, and,
therefore, are desirable for spinners, as cottons in that section
axe long-staple. There is not much doubt but that they can
be had at that price a short time hence, if a buyer should come
out with cash and go down and see the owner and the cotton."
Authority to sell the large lot, it is manifest, is not there
conferred; but Schley sets up in his answer that Metcalf, when
he handed him the memorandum, gave him verbal authority to
sell the large lot also to the appellant, and that he afterwards,
on the same day, agreed that the terms of sale should be the
same as the terms for the other lot. Written proof of that
allegation is not exhibited; and Metcalf denies, both in his answer and in his testimony, that he ever gave Schley any such
authority, and insists that he handed him the memorandum
merely as information, which he might show to the appellant,
to let him know where and from whom the large lot of cotton
could be purchased; and he denies also that he himself had

Q.-t. 1875.]

GARSED V.

BEALL ET AL.

any authority to sell it, and he avers that he so informed Schley
when he handed him the memorandum.
Opposed to that is the testimony of Schley; and it appears
that his offer to the appellant was reduced to writing, dividing
the cotton into three classes, in substance and effect as follows,
stating in respect to class No. 1, that he controlled two thousand and eighty-nine bales of selected cotton, previously shown
to the appellant, and which he offered to sell to him, to be
reweighed and delivered at the gin-house where it then was,
at twenty-five cents per pound, payable there in greenbacks ;
adding, "you have the privilege to the 6th of July to close the
trade by telegraph," and that he, the seller, would wait for the
money until he, the buyer, could reach there with it. What
he said in respect to class No. 2 was, that he had six hundred
bales of liis own, of the same lot, which "you can have foeighteen cents in gold, payable here as soon as you can returu
-with it." Both of those parcels were, undoubtedly, sold to the
appellant, and they are not now in controversy.
Class No. 3 is in controversy, and in respect to that the same
party stated, in the same communication, that he also controlled,
and would have authority to sell by the 3d of July, nine thousand seven hundred and seventy-eight bales of cotton, stored as
therein specifically described, and that he would sell the same,
,delivered where stored, at twenty-three cents per pound,- the
cotton to be reweighed, and payable in greenbacks; adding as
follows: "This purchase secured after I telegraph you. ' Late
in the same afternoon Schley sent, by his servant, the following
note to the appellant: "Since you left town I saw the party
,controlling the large lot of cotton No. 3, and it is agreed that
if you telegraph to take it they will ratify what I have.
agreed," &c.
Three days later Schley informed Metcalf of the substanct,
,of the note sent by the servant to the appellant, and it appears
that Metcalf promptly replied that he was misunderstood: that
he had given no such authority. Whereupon Schley immediately sent a telegraph to the appellant, that he had misunderstood the parties in respect to lot No. 3, and requested him, if
be still wished to purchase that lot, to say so by telegraph, and
that he would answer if they would sell.

692

GARSED V. BEALL ET AL.

[Sup. 0t.

Conflicting testimony is exhibited in the transcript as to the
precise period of time when the preceding telegrau was received
by the'appellant; but it appears that he, on the 6th of the same
July, telegraphed to his correspondent that he accepted lots
1, 2, and 3, and that gold and greenbacks would be sent by
Adams Express in the next vessel, and directing his correspondent to forward the cotton. Schley, immediately on the
receipt of that telegram, showed it to Metcalf, who repudiated
so much of it as related to lot No. 3, and dictated the following
answer, which Schley, without delay, sent to the appellant:
"Parties owning the nine-thousand-bale lot refuse to sell unless
'the funds are here." "If here to-day, the bargain could be
closed, and probably can be on your arrival."
Neither the gold nor greenbacks were shipped to pay for the
three lots, as stated in the prior telegram; but it does appear
that the contracts for lots 1 and 2 were subsequently closed,
and that the amount was paid partly in money and partly in
drafts.
Metcalf refused to deliver lot No. 3, and the appellant applied to the military authorities for an order to compel the
delivery. Orders of the kind were at one time given; but it is
unnecessary to discuss that topic, as the court is unhesitatingly
of the opinion that the military authorities were entirely without jurisdiction in the premises, and that all such orders and
the proceedings therein are absolutely null and void, which is
all tha need be said upon the subject.
Pending those proceedings, the original bill of complaint w,'as
filed, and the complainants obtained the writ of injunction, to
which reference has already been made. On the 20th of September following all the military orders touching the cotton in
controversy were revoked, and, four days later, the complainants
proposed to dismiss the bill of complaint. Counsel were heard;
and the court decided that the bill of complaint might be dismissed, but that the answer of the appellant must be retained,.
for the purpose and under the conditions heretofore sufficiently
explained.
Controversies seldom arise where the proofs are more con
flicting and irreconcilable than in the case before the court
and that remark applies with all its force to the testimony ot

Ow,.. 1875.]

GARSED

v.

BEALL ET AL.

the parties as well as to many of the other witnesses. Taken
as a whole, the court here is of the opinion that the case is one
where it was quite proper that the Circuit Court should invoke
i e aid of a jury in settling the controverted matters of fact.
Feigned issues were accordingly framed, and ten questions
were submitted to the jury, all of which appertain to the
material matters of fact in dispute between the parties, - the
two great questions being as follows: (1.) Whether the appellant. over purchased lot No. 3, either of Schley or of the owners,
or e ther of them. (2.) Whether Schley ever had any authority
to sell that lot, either from Metcalf or the other owners.
Presented as those questions were in every proper form to the
jury, it will be sufficient to reproduce the findings of the jury
without repeating the questions, except in one or two instances.
Considering the importance of the first question, it will be
given in the form exhibited in the transcript: 1. Whether there was a sale of lots 1, 2, and 3, by Sehley to
Garsed; and, if so, whether the contract of sale was intended
by the parties to be one entire and indivisible contract.
Responsive to that question, the jury found that there was a
sale of lots Nos. 1 and 2, but that there was no sale as to lot
No. 3; and if there was a sale of lot No. 8, Schley had no authority from Metcalf to make the sale, and that it would have
been a separate, unauthorized, and distinct sale.
They also responded to the second question, and found that
the contract was not entire, and that as to lot No. 3, it was
never confirmed or ratified by Metcalf.
Part of the third question is equally important, and in response to that the jury found that lot No. 3 was never sold;
and if so, without authority from Metcalf. Consequently it
was not sold at a stipulated price. In response to the fourth
question, the jury found that there was no time fixed for the
delivery of the cotton.
Much less importance is attached to the fifth question, as it
presents the inquiry whether the cotton was to be weighed or
otherwise prepared for delivery; and the jury found upon that
subject that neither of the parties was to prepare or weigh the
cotton for delivery. In response to the sixth question, that
the cotton, so far as appeared, was never reweighed.

GARSED V.

BEALL ET AL.

LSup.

Ct.

Inquiry was also made of the jury, in the seventh place, as
to the market-price of cotton; and the jury found that a reasonable price at that time was eighteen or twenty cents per pound
at the different localities.
Beyond all doubt, every one of the preceding findings of the
jury tends more or less strongly to support the theory of the
appellees; but the finding of the jury to the eighth question is
even more conclusive that the claim of the appellant is without
merit, as they find that Schley had no verbal authority from
Metcalf to sell lot No. 3, and that it was not included in the
sale of lots Nos. 1 and 2, and that the appellant, by virtue of
his contract with Schley as to lots 1 and 2, neither accepted
nor actually received any part of lot 3, or paid any part of the
purchase-money.
Suppose the appellant never paid any part of the purchasemoney for lot No. 3, still it was insisted that he offered to perform, and was ready to perform, his part of the contract; and,
in order that that issue might be determined. by the jury, the
ninth question was framed, and it appears that the jury found,
in response to that inquiry, that the appellant did not perform,
or offer to perform, his part of the contract, and that he was
never in a condition to perform it so as to entitle him to demand a delivery of the cotton; and they found, in response to
the tenth inquiry, that he sustained no damages in relation to
lot 3, upon the assumption that the findings are correct.
Costs were awarded to the respondents in the cross-bill; and
the recital of the final decree shows that the parties were heard
upon the pleadings and evidence in the case, and upon the
findings of the jury rendered in response to the issues sent
down to be tried at law, and which were duly returned to the
Circuit Court sitting in equity. Error is not assigned in respect to that proceeding, and inasmuch as nothing is exhibited
in the record to the contrary, the presumption must be that it
is correct. Issues of the kind are properly directed, in a case
where the questions of fact are involved in great doubt, by conflicting or insufficient evidence, and it is clear that the case before the subordinate court was one of that character. Adams's
Eq., 6th Am. ed., 376; Flagg v. Hann, 2 Story, 387; Field
v. Holland, 6 Cranch, 8.

Oct. 1S75.]

THE

" ALABAMA"

AND THE " GAME-COCK."

(9

Equity courts may decide both fact and law, but they may,
if they see fit, refer doubtful questions of fact to a jury. Findings of the kind, however, are not conclusive, and, if not satisfactory, they may be set aside or overruled; but if the finding is
satisfactory to the Chancellor, the practice is to regard it as the
proper foundation for a decree. Harding v. Handy, 11 Wheat.
103. Such findings are regarded as influential in an appellate
court, but they are not conclusive. Goodyear v. Rubber Co.
2 Cliff. 365; Brockett v. Broekett, 3 How. 691; 2 Dan. Chan.
Prac., 4th Am. ed., 1072. Consequently counsel were allowed
to review the whole evidence in the case, and the court has
followed the course adopted by the counsel at the argument,
and the result of the review of the evidence is, that the court is
clearly of the opinion that the findings of the jury were correct
in all material respects, and that there is no error in the record.
Decree affirmed.

THE,

"ATA

AIA"

A wD THE1"Gx

cocxi."

Where a collision occurs at sea, each vessel being at fault, and damage is thereby
done to an innocent party, a decree should be rendered, not against both
vessels in solido for the entire damage, interest, and costs, but against each
for a moiety thereof, so far as the stipulated value of each extends; and
it should provide that any balance of such moiety, over and above such
stipulated value of either vessel, or which the libellant shall be unable to collect or enforce, shall be paid by the other vessel, or her stipulators, to the
extent of her stipulated value beyond the moiety due from her.

A-PPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
The case was argued by 31'. Edwards Pierrepont for the
"Alabama," by 31r. W. R. Beebe for the "Game-cock," and by
Mr. ,Toln B. Parsans for the libellant.
MR JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
Without entering upon a discussion of the evidence in this
case, it is sufficient to say, that, having carefully examined the
same, we see no reason to be dissatisfied with the conclusions of
fact arrived at by the District and Circuit Courts. On the question of blame, the conclusion is, that both the "Alabama" and

