Oct. 1875.]

NEBLETT V. MACFARLAND.

They made none, and there was no obligation on the part of
the company to volunteer the disclosure.
On both these grounds the plea was bad, and the demurrer
was properly sustained.
Judgment affirmed.

NEBLETT V.

MACFARLAf-D.

Whore a conrEyance of a plantation had been obtained by fraud, and the only
consideration alleged by the grantee was the cancellation of a certain bond
executed by the grantor, and the court below set aside the deed, and ordered
that the bond, unaffected by any indorsement of credit or payment thereon,
should be returned, and that it and the mortgage therewith given should have
the same force and effect as if the conveyance had not been made and the
bond had not been cancelled, - Held, that the decree was proper in not making
the payment of the bond a condition precedent to the reconveyance of thp
plantation.

ArPEALJ from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
This is a suit in equity to set aside a deed of conveyance of
a plantation known as "lMossland,"
in the State of Louisiana,
executed by the appellee on the 19th of September, 1868, when
temporarily residing in England. Macfarland, the complainant,
who is the appellee in this court, alleged that the conveyance
had been procured by the false and fraudulent representations
of the appellant and his father, Sterling Neblett.
The appellant, in his answer, alleged that the consideration
for such conveyance was the surrender and cancellation of a
bond for $14,464.51 executed by the appellee to Sterling NebIett, and by the latter indorsed to the appellant. The court
below decreed that the deed of the complainant, conveying to
the defendant the plantation in the bill of complaint described
and designated as "Mossland," be, and the same is, declared
null and void and of no effect, and that the title to the said
plantation is declared to be vested in the said complainant to
the same extent as if said deed had never been executed.
That within thirty days the defendant make, execute, and
deliver to the complainant a deed reconveying said plantation
to him in fee-simple; and, in default thereof, that the decree

NEBLETT V.

MACFARLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

shall have the same operation and effect as the execution and
delivery of said deed.
But neither the execution and delivery of such deed nor this
decree shall in any wise affect the lien of said defendant on said
plantation, created by the deed of trust thereon to secure the
said bond for $14,464.51.
That the original of said bond, now on file in this cause, be
delivered up to the defendant, unaffected by any indorsement
of credit or payment thereon; but this decree shall be without
prejudice to any right which the defendant has under the bond
and mortgage which he derived by the assignment of Sterling
Neblett, but they shall have the same force and effect as if the
deed had not been made, or any cancellation of the bond taken
place.
From this decree Neblett appealed to this court, on the
ground that the payment of Macfarland's bond was not made a
condition precedent to the reconveyance of the property to him.
1TVr. W. Alex Gordon for the appellant.
i-Lr. John A. Campbell, ffir. .3f Hudson,. and Mr.Walker
Fearn, for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HUNLT delivered the opinion of the court.
The allegation of error in this case is confined to a single
point. In his brief the counsel for the appellant says, "The
court erred in not making the payment of our bond a condition
precedent to the reconveyance of the plantation, as set forth in
our motion for a new trial; and on this ground, and from this
point of the decree, do we appeal and ask for relief."
The action was brought to set aside the conveyance of a plantation in Louisiana, made by Macfarland to the appellant
Neblett, upon the allegation that the conveyance was obtained
by the fraudulent acts and representations of Neblett and is
father.
The only consideration given, or professed to be given, by
Neblett for the conveyance, was the cancellation of a certain
bond for the sum of $14,464.51, executed by Macfarland to
Sterling Neblett, the father, and alleged to be the property of
Henry Neblett.
The coart below adjudged the transaction to be fraudulent,

Oct. 1875.]

NEBLETT v.

MACFARLAND.

directed the execution of a deed reconveying the property, and
ordered the return and redelivery of the bond for $14,464.51,
unaffected by any indorsement of credit or payment thereon,
and the same, with the mortgage made for its security, to retain
the same lien thereon and the same force and effect as if the
deed had not been made, or any cancellation of the bond taken
place.
The complaint now made is, that, instead of directing a
return of the bond in specie as a condition for the return of
the land, the court should have directed the payment of the
amount of money secured thereby.
In cases of this character the general principle is, that he
who seeks equity must do equity; that the party against whom
relief is sought shall be remitted to the position he occupied
before the transaction complained of. The court proceeds on
the principle, that, as the transaction ought never to have taken
place, the parties are to be placed as far as possible in the situation in which they would have stood if there had never been
any such transaction. Bellamy v. Sabine, 2 Phil. 425; Samy
v. Kbig, 5 H. L. 627; T. B. of Scotland v. Addie, L. R.
1 Scotch App. Cas. 162; Gatley v. Newell, 9 Ind. 572; JoTnson
v. J7nes, 13 Sm. & 11. 580; Kerr on Fraud, 335, 343. This is,
no doubt, the general rule.
We do not, however, perceive that the principle will benefit
the complaining party in this suit.
1. He is restored here to his property that he had and parted
with when he received his deed; to wit, his bond and mortgage.
If he had paid $14,500 in money, and received in return only a
bond for the like amount, of doubtful security and impaired by
the lapse of time, he might well have complained. But he paid
no money. He surrendered a bond against an insolvent debtor
who had left the country, and a mortgage upon an estate abandoned by the owner, and in relation to which the Nebletts,
father and son, make the most bitter complaints of its insufficient security.
In his letter of Sept. 29, 1869, Henry Neblett says, "Your
deed lay in the hands of your uncle as an escrow. . . . I have
hesitated whether to abandon the place, or struggle to save
something by borrowing a large sum, and risk of forced culture

NEBLETT V. MACFARLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

in latitude 30J." Sterling Neblett, the father, writes, "If Mendoza be correct, as he just advised, that there are numerous debts
and some judgments against Mossland" (the plantation in
question), "liens on the property that Henry nor I did not know
of, the trust-deed on record at St: Martin's give the only protection against them. . . Henry is absent, and has long been
the true owner of James Edward's bond. I thought of you if
interested and my deed to Henry could arrange matters. But
alas ! so far unsuccessful, - debts to others, less and less probability of buying the Bruossade bonds. . . . How much money
will you provide Henry if he decides to go ?"
The letter of the same person of February, 1869, is filed with
the accounts of the embarrassments and difficulties, of the
depreciation of the estate, the claims for taxes, judgments, and
general creditors. Among other things, he says, "I know
Henry would let you have his debt" (the bond in question) "for
£ifty cents on the dollar."
We are not able to say, nor is it very material to know,
-whether these statements were false and fraudulent, or whether
the security was really so inadequate as is here represented.
Whether good or bad, he receives now the same security that
he then gave to his vendor. It would be a perversion of justice to give him the full amount in money for a security then
worth but fifty cents on the dollar. If, on the other hand, it
-vas then an adequate security, it is the same now.
2. It is no objection to a restoration of property received on
a fraudulent sale that it has fallen in value since the date of
the transaction. Blake v. Morrell, 21 Beav.' 613; Veazie v.
Williams, 8 How. 134, 158. Nor, if the property is of a perishable nature, is the holder bound to keep it in a state of preservation until the bill is filed. Scott v. Perrin, 4 Bibb, 860;
Kerr, 337.
A party seeking to set aside a sale of shares is not bound to
pay calls on them to prevent forfeiture after filing his bill;
nor is it fatal to his right of rescission that some of the shares
have been thus perfected.
We have no means of knowing whether there can be a
defence made to the bond arising from the Statute of Limitations. When the bond has been so recently adjudged by the

Oct. 1875.]

TorrEN,

ADMINISTRATOR,

V.

UNITED STATES.

105

court to be a subsisting security, and to be a lien upon the
plantation directed to be reconveyed, - the party in substance
redelivering the bond as a condition of obtaining such reconveyance, - it would seem that a defence of this character could not
be a good one. But of this the appellant must take his chance.
If the bond has become thus impaired, it is no worse than the
loss of a perishable article, or the forfeiture of shares during
the litigation. These circumstances do not alter the rule of
law. In Gatley v. Newell, supra,it is said, "The party defendant is not bound to rescind until the lapse of a reasonable time
after discovering the fraud. Hence the parties cannot be
placed in 8tatu quo as to time."
Parties engaged in a fraudulent attempt to obtain a neighbor's property are not the objects of the special solicitude of
the courts. If they are caught in their own toils, and are themselves the sufferers, it is a legitimate consequence of their violation of the rules of law and morality. Those who violate
these laws must suffer the penalty.
-Decree affirmed.

ToTT,,

An1I!=isTR.To1,

v.

UNITED STATES.

An action cannot be maintained against the government, in the Court of Claims,
upon a contract for secret services during the war, made between the President
and the claimant.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims.
Ir. .Enoch Totten for the appellant.
M1r. Assistant Attorney-General .Edwin B. Smith, contra.
MRt. JuST E FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before us on appeal from the Court of
Claims. The action was brought to recover compensation for
services alleged to have been rendered by the claimant's intestate, William A. Lloyd, under a contract with President Lincoln, made in July, 1861, by which he was to proceed South
and ascertain the number of troops stationed at different points
in the insurrectionary States, procure plans of forts and fortifications, and gain such other information as might be beneficial

