Oct. 1875.]

LEAVENWORTH, ETC.,

R.R. Co. v. U. S.

733

new trial is not assignable in error, as we have often said heretofore.
But, for the error in the charge which we have noticed, the
judgment must be reversed.
Judgment reversed, and new trial ordered.
MRt.

JUSTICE

DAVIS did not sit in this case.

LEA.VENWORTH, LAWRENCE, AND GALVESTON
COMPANY v. UMTED STATES.

RAILROAD

1. Where rights claimed under the United States are set up against it, they
must be so clearly defined that there can be no question of the purpose of
Congress to confer them.
2. The rule announced in the former decisions of this court, that a grant by
the United States is strictly construed against the grantee, applies as well
to grants to a State to aid in building railroads as to one granting special
privileges to a private corporation.
8. The doctrine in Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498, that a tract lawfully appropriated to any purpose becomes thereafter severed from the mass of public
lands, and that no subsequent law or proclamation will be construed to embrace it, or to operate upon it, although no exception be made of it, reaffirmed and held to apply with more force to Indian, than to military,
reservations, inasmuch as the latter are the absolute property of the
government, whilst in the former other rights are vested.
4. Where Congress enacts "That there be and is hereby granted" to a State, to
aid in the construction of a specified railroad, "every alternate section of
land, designated by odd numbers," within certain limits of each side of the
road, the State takes an immediate interest in land, so situate, whereto the
complete title is in the United States at the date of the act, although a
survey of the land and a location of the road are necessary to give precision to the title and attach it to any particular tract. Such a grant is
applicable only to public land owned absolutely by the United States.
No other is subject to survey and division into such sections.
6. Where the right of an Indian tribe to the possession and use of certain
lands, as long as it may choose to occupy the same, is assured by treaty, a
grant of them, absolutely or cum onere, by Congress, to aid in building a
railroad, violates an express stipulation; and a grant in general terms of
"land" cannot be construed to embrace them.
6. A proviso, that any and all lands heretofore reserved to the United States,
for any purpose whatever, are reserved from the operation of the grant
to which it is annexed, applies to lands set apart for the use of an Indian
tribe under a treaty. They are reserved to the United States for that
specific use; and, if so reserved at the date of the grant, are excluded

734

LEAVENWORTH,

ETc., R.R. Co. v. U. S.

[Sup. Ct.

from its operation. It is immaterial whether they subsequently become
a part of the public lands of the country.
7. The act of March 3, 1863 (12 Stat. 772), to aid in the construction of certain
railroads in Kansas, embraces no part of the lands reserved to the Great
and Little Osages by the treaty of June 2, 1825 (7 Stat. 240) ; and the
treaty concluded Sept. 29, 1865, and proclaimed Jan. 21, 1867 (14 Stat.
687), neither makes nor recognizes a grant of such lands. The effect of the
treaty is simply to provide that any rights of the companies designated
by the State to build the roads should not be barred or impaired by
reason of the general terms of the treaty, but not to declare that such
rights existed.
S. The act of Congress of even date with said act (12 Stat. 793), authorizing
treaties for the removal of the several tribes of Indians from the State of
Kansas, and for the extinction of their title, and a subsequent act for
relocating a portion of the road of the appellant (17 Stat. 5), neither recognize nor confer a right to the lands within the Osage country.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kansas.
This is a bill, filed by the United States against the Leavenworth, Lawrence, and Galveston Railroad Company, to establish its title to certain tracts of land lying within the Osage
country in Kansas, which were certified to the Governor of
Kansas as forming part of the grant made by Congress to
that State, to aid in the construction of certain railroads.
The court granted the prayer of the bill, and the company
appealed.
The treaty with the Great and Little Osage tribes of Indians of June 2, 1825 (7 Stat. 240), contains the following

provision:

-

A.nTIc E II. "
ithin the limits of the country above ceded and
relinquished, there shall be reserved to and for the Great and
Little Osage tribe or nation aforesaid, so long as they may choose
to occupy the same, the following described tract of land."

The land embraces, with other tracts, that mentioned in the
first article of a treaty with those Indians, which was concluded
Sept. 29, 1865 (14 Stat. 687). That article is as follows: "The tribe of the Great and Little Osage Indians, having now
more lands than are necessary for their occupation, and all payments from the government to them under former treaties having
ceased, leaving them greatly impoverished, and being desirous of

Oct. 1875.]

LEAVENWORTH,

E'rc., R.R. Co. v. U. S.

735

improving their condition by disposing of their surplus lands, do
hereby grant and sell to the United States the lands contained
within the following boundaries. .

.

. And, in consideration of the.

grant and sale to them of the above-described lands, the United
States agree to pay the sum of three hundred thousand dollars,
which sum shall be placed to the credit of said tribe of Indians in
the treasury of the United States; and interest thereon at the rate
of five per centum per annum shall be paid to said tribe semi
annually, in money, clothing, provisions, or such articles of utility
as the Secretary of the Interior may from time to time direct.
Said lands shall be surveyed and sold under the direction of the
Secretary of the Interior, on the most advantageous terms, for
cash, as public lands are surveyed and sold under existing laws
[including any act granting lands to the State of Kansas, in aid of
the construction of a railroad through said lands], but no pre-emption claim or homestead settlement shall be recognized ; and, after
reimbursing the United States the cost of said survey and sale, and
the said sum of three hundred thousand dollars placed to the credit'
of said Indians, the remaining proceeds of sales shall be placed
in the treasury of the United States, to the credit of the "civilization fund," to be used, under the direction of the Secretary of the
Interior, for the education and civilization of Indian tribes residing
within the limits of the United States."
The words in brackets are an amendment adopted by the
senate, 26th June, 1866, which the Indians accepted Sept. 21
of that year. The treaty was proclaimed Jan. 21, 1867.
On the 3d of March, 1863, Congress passed "An Act for a
grant of lands to the State of Kansas, in alternate sections, to
aid in the construction of certain railroads and telegraphs in
said State" (12 Stat. 772); the first section of which is as
follows : "That there be, and is hereby, granted to the State of Kansas,
for the purpose of aiding in the construction: First,of a railroad
and telegraph iom the city of Leavenworth, by way of the town
of Lawrence, and vid the Ohio City crossing of the Osage River, to
the southern line of the State in the direction of Galveston Bay,
in Texas; with a branch from Lawrence by the valley of the
Wakarusa River, to the point on the Atchison, Topeka, and Santa
F6 Railroad where said road intersects the Neosho River. Becond,
of a railroad from the city of Atchison, vid Topeka, the capital of

736

LEAVENWORTH, ETC., R.R. Co. v. U. S'

[Sup. Ct.

said State, to the western line of the State, in the direction of Fort
Union and Santa F6, New Mexico; with a branch from where this
last-named road crosses the Neosho, down said Neosho Valley to
the point where the said first-named road enters the said Neosho
Valley; every alternate section of land, designated by odd numbers, for ten sections in width on each side of said road and each of
ite branches. But in case it shall appear that the United States
have, when the lines or routes of said road and branches are
definitely fixed, sold any section, or any part thereof, granted as
aforesaid, or that the right of pre-emption or homestead settlement
has attached to the same, or that the same has been reserved by the
United States for any purpose whatever, then it shall be the duty
of the Secretary of the Interior to cause to be selected, for the purpose aforesaid, from the public lands of the United States nearest
to tiers of sections above specified, so much land, in alternate sections or parts of sections, designated by odd numbers, as shall be
equal to such lands as the United States have sold, reserved, or
otherwise appropriated, or to which the right of pre-emption or
homestead settlements have attached as aforesaid; which lands,
thus indicated by odd numbers and selected by the direction of
the Secretary of the Interior as aforesaid, shall be held by the
State of Kansas for the use and purpose aforesaid: -Provided,
that the land to be so selected shall in no case be located further than twenty miles from the lines of said road and branches:
.Provided further, that the lands hereby granted for and on account of said road and branches, severally, shall be exclusively
applied in the construction of the same, and for no other purpose
whatever; and shall be disposed of only as the work progresses
through the same, as in this act hereinafter provided: -Provided,
also, that no part of the land granted by this act shall be applied
to aid in the construction of any railroad or part thereof, for the
construction of which any previous grant of land or bonds may
have been made by Congress: And provided fizrther, that any
and all lands heretofore reserved to the United States, by any
act of Congress, or in any other manner by competent authority,
for the purpose of aiding in any object of internal improvement, or for any other purpose whatsoever, be, and the same are
hereby, reserved to the United States from the operation of this
act, except so far as it may be found necessary to locate the
routes of said road and branches through such reserved lands ;
in which case the right of way only shall be granted, subject to
the approval of the President of the United States."

Oct. 1875.]

LEAvENWORTH, ETC.,

R.R. Co. v. U. S.

737

The legislature of Kansas, on the 9th of February, 1864,
passed an act accepting the grant; and designated the appellant
to build the road from Leavenworth to the southern line of the
State, and to receive the grant of land upon the prescribed terms
and conditions. Its authorized route passed through the Osage
lands whereof mention is made in the first article of the treaty
of 1865, and a map of the definite location of the road was filed
in the General Land-Office, Jan. 2, 1868.
The Commissioner of the General Land-Office, by letter
bearing date Jan. 21, 1868, directed the register and receiver of
the proper office to withdraw from sale the odd-numbered sections within ten miles of the line of the road.
The fourth section of the law making appropriations for the
Indian Department, approved March 3, 1863 (12 Stat. 793), is
as follows: "That the President of the United States be, and is hereby, authorized to enter into treaties with the several tribes of Indians,
respectively, now residing in the State of Kansas, for the extinction
of their titles to lands held in common within said State, and for
the removal of such Indians of said tribes as hold their lands in
common to suitable localities elsewhere within the territorial limits

of the United States, and outside the limits of any State."
On the 10th of April, 1869, Congress passed the following
joint resolution (16 Stat. 55) "Resolved, by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America, in Congress assembled, That any bona
*fide settler residing upon any portion of the lands sold to the
United States by virtue of the first and second articles of the
treaty concluded between the United States and the Great and
Little Osage tribe of Indians, September twenty-ninth, eighteen
hundred and sixty-five, and proclaimed January twenty-first, eighteen hundred and sixty-seven, who is a citizen of the United States,
or shall have declared his intention to become a citizen of the United
States, shall be, and hereby is, entitled to purchase the same, in
quantity not exceeding one hundred and sixty acres, at the price
of one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre, within two years from
the passage of this act, under such rules and regulations as may
be prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior: Provided,however,
that both the odd and even numbered sections of said lands shall
VOL. ir.

47

738

LEAVENWORTH, ET.,

R.R. Co. v. U. S.

[Sup. Ct

be subject to settlement and sale as above provided: And provided further, that the sixteenth and thirty-sixth sections in
each township of said lands shall be reserved for State school purposes, in accordance with the provisions of the act of admission of
the State of Kansas: -Provided,however, that nothing in this act
shall be construed in any manner affecting any legal rights here.
tofore vested in any other party or parties."
Settlers made entries lying within the odd-numbered sections,
which were set aside and vacated, Jan. 16, 1872, by the Secretary of the Interior, who decided that the appellant had a grant
within those lands.
The appellant having constructed its road from its initial
point to Thayer, within the ceded territory, and about twenty
miles south of its northern boundary ; and, desiring to change its
previously located route south of that town, the legislature of
Kansas, in January, 1871, asked Congress to allow a relocation
of the road.
Congress passed an act, approved April 19, 1871, as follows
(17 Stat. 5) : "An Act to enable the Leavenworth, Lawrence, and Galveston
Railroad Company to relocate a portion of its road.
"1Be it enacted by the Senate and .House of Representatives
of the United States of America, in Congress assembled, That
the Leavenworth, Lawrence, and Galveston Railroad Company,
for the purpose of improving its route and accommodating the
country, may relocate any portion of its road south of the town
of Thayer, within the limits of its grant, as prescribed by the act
of Congress entitled 'An Act for a grant of lands to the State of
Kansas, in alternate sections, to aid in the construction of certain
railroads and telegraphs in said State,' approved March third,
eighteen hundred and sixty-three; but not thereby to change, enlarge, or diminish said land grant."
Sept. 21, 1871, the Governor of Kansas certified to the Secretary of the Interior that the road of the appellant had been
constructed and equipped as required by the act of Congress of
March 3, 1863, and that a map of the road had been duly filed,
whereupon certified lists of the odd-numbered sections of lands
within the railroad limits were made by the proper authority
at Washington, and the governor, April 8, 1872,.and March 21,

Oct. 1875.]

LEAVENWORTH,

Ec., R.R. Co. v. U. S.

739

1873, issued to the appellant patents for the lands mentioned
in the bill of complaint.
The case was argued by Mr. George P. .Edmunds and 2JIr. P.
Pillips for the appellant, and by M1r. Solicitor-General
Pillips,-1r.JeremiaA S. Black, and 1r. TWlliam Lawrence,
for the appellee.
MRi. JusmcCE DAvis delivered the opinion of the court.
This bill was brought by the United States to confirm and
establish its title to certain tracts of land, and to enjoin the
appellant from setting up any right or claim thereto. These
tracts, situate within the Osage ceded lands in Kansas, and
specifically described in "certified lists" furnished by the Commissioner of the General Land-Office, with the approval of the
Secretary of the Interior, to the governor of the State, were
subsequently conveyed by the latter to the appellant. Having
the force and effect of a patent (10 Stat. 346), the lists passed
the title of the United States to the tracts in question, if they
were embraced by the grant in aid of the construction of the
appellant's road. But the appellee contends that they were
not so embraced. If such be the fact, inasmuch as public officers cannot bind the government beyond the scope of their
lawful authority, the decree of the Circuit Court granting the
prayer of the bill must be affirmed.
The act of Congress of March 3, 1863 (12 Stat. 772), is the
starting-point in this controversy. Upon it and the treaty with
the Great and Little Osage Indians, proclaimed Jan. 21, 1867(14 id. 687), the appellant rests its claim of title to the lands
covered by the patents. It is, therefore, of primary importance
to ascertain the scope and meaning of that act. The parties
The United
differ radically in their interpretation of it.
States maintains that it did not dispose of the Osage lands, and
that it was not intended to do so. On the contrary, the appellant insists that, although not operating upon any specific
tracts until the road was located, it then took effect upon those
in controversy, as they, by reason of the extinction of the
Osage title in the mean while, had become, in the proper sense
of the term, public lands. This difference would seem to imply obscurity in the act; but, be this as it may, the rules which
govern in the interpretation of legislative grants are so well

740

LEAVENWORTH,

ETC., R.R.

Co. v. U. S.

[Sup. Cb.

settled by this court that they hardly need be reasserted. They
apply as well to grants of lands to States, to aid in building
railroads, as to grants of special privileges to private corporations. In both cases the legislature, prompted by the supposed
wants of the public, confers on others the means of securing
an object the accomplishment of which it desires to promote,
but declines directly to undertake.
The main question in The Dubuque and Pacific Railroad
Company v. Litchfield, 23 How. 66, was, whether a grant to the
Territory of Iowa, to aid in the improvement of the navigation
of the Des Moines River, extended to lands above the Raccoon
Fork, or was confined to those below it. The court, in deciding
it, say, "All grants of this description are strictly construed against the
grantee; nothing passes but what is conveyed in clear and explicit
language; and,,as the rights here claimed are derived entirely from
the act of Congress, the donation stands on the same footing of a
grant by the public to a private company, the terms of which must
be plainly expressed in the statute, and, if not thus expressed,
they cannot be implied."
This grant, like that to Iowa, was made for the purpose of
aiding a work of internal improvement, and does not extend
beyond the intent it expresses. It should be neither enlarged
by ingenious reasoning, nor diminished by strained construction.
The interpretation must be reasonable, and such as will give
effect to the intention of Congress. This is to be ascertained
from the terms employed, the situation of the parties, and the
nature of the grant. If these terms are plain and unambiguous, there can be no difficulty in interpreting them; but, if they
admit of different meanings, - one of extension, and the other
of limitation, - they must be accepted in a sense favorable to
the grantor. And if rights claimed under the government be
set up against it, they must be so clearly defined that there can
be no question of the purpose of Congress to confer them. In
other words, what is not given expressly, or by necessary implication, is withheld. JDubuque and Pacific Railroad Company
v. Litehfleld, supra; Rice v. Railroad Company, 1 Black, 380;
Charles River Bridge v. W~arren Bridge, 11 Pet. 120. Applying these rules to this controversy, there does not seem to be
any difficulty in deciding it. Whatever is included in the

Oct. 1875.]

LEAVENWORTH, ETC.,

R.R. Co. v. U. S.

741

exception is excluded from the grant; and it therefore often
becomes important to ascertain what is excepted, in order to
determine what is granted. But, if the exception and the proviso were omitted, the language used in the body of this act
cannot be construed to include the Osage lands.
It creates an immediate interest, and does not indicate a purpose to give in future. "There be and is hereby granted" are
Words of absolute donation, and import a grant in prcesenti.
This court has held that they can have no other meaning; and the
land department, on this interpretation of them, has uniformly
administered every previous similar grant. Railroad Company
v. Smith, 9 Wall. 95; Selulenberg v. Harriman, 21 id. 60;
1 Lester, 513; 8 Opin. 257; 11 id. 47. They vest a present title
in the State of Kansas, though a survey of the lands and a location of the road are necessary to give precision to it, and attach
it to any particular tract. The grant then becomes certain, and
by relation has the same effect upon the selected parcels as if
it had specifically described them. In other words, the grant was
a float until the line of the road should be definitely fixed. But
did Congress intend that it should reach these lands? Its general terms neither include nor exclude them. Every alternate
section designated by odd numbers, within certain defined limits, is granted; but only the public lands owned absolutely by
the United States are subject to survey and division into sections, and to them alone this grant is applicable. It embraces
such as could be sold and enjoyed, and not those which the Indians, pursuant to treaty stipulations, were left free to occupy.
.iee v. Railroad Co., supra. Since the land system was inaugurated, it has been the settled policy of the government to
sell the public lands at a small cost to individuals, and for the
last twenty-five years to grant them to States in large tracts
to aid in works of internal improvement. But these grants
have always been recognized as attaching only to so much of
the public domain as was subject to sale or other disposal,
although the roads of many subsidized companies pass through
Indian reservations.
Such grants could not be otherwise construed; for Congress
cannot be supposed to have thereby intended to include land
previously appropriated to another purpose, unless there be an
express declaration to that effect. A special exception of it

LEAVENWORTH, ETC., R.R. Co. v. U. S.

[Sup. Ct.

was not necessary; because the policy which dictated them confined them to land which Congress could rightfully bestow,
vithout disturbing existing relations and producing vexatious
conflicts. The legislation which reserved it for any purpose
excluded it from disposal as the public lands are usually disposed of ; and this act discloses no intention to change the longcontinued practice with respect to tracts set apart for the use of
the government or of the Indians. As the transfer of aaiy
part of an Indian reservation secured by treaty would also
involve a gross breach of the public faith, the presumption is
conclusive that Congress ne'er meant to grant it.
"A thing which is within the letter of the statute is not
within the statute, unless it be within the intention of the
makers." 1 Bac. Abr. 247. The treaty of June 2, 1325,
secured to the Osages the possession and use of their lands
"so long as they may choose to occupy the same;" and this
treaty was only the substitute for one of an earlier date with
equal guaranties.
As long ago as The Cherokee Nation v. Georgia, 5 Pet. 1, this
court said that the Indians are acknowledged to have the
unquestionable right to the lands they occupy, until it shall be
extinguished by a voluntary cession to the government; and,
recently, in United States v. Cook, 19 Wall. 591, that right was
declared to be as sacred as the title of the United States to the
fee. Unless the Indians were deprived of the power of alienation; it is easy to see that they could not peaceably enjoy their
possessions with a dominant race constantly pressing on their
frontier. With the ultimate fee vested in the United States,
coupled with the exclusive privilege of buying that right, the
Indians were safe against intrusion, if the government discharged its duty to them. This it has indicated a willingness
to do; for in 1834 an act was passed (4 Stat. 729, sect. 11)
prohibiting, under heavy penalties, a settlement on the lands
of an Indian tribe, or even an attempt to survey them. This
perpetual right of occupancy, with the correlative obligation
of the government to enforce it, negatives the idea that
Congress, even in the absence of any positive stipulation to
protect the Osages, intended to grant their land to a railroad
company, either absolutely or cum onere. For all practical
purposes, they owned it; as the actual right of possession, the

Oct. 1875.]

LEAVENWORTH,

ETC., R.R. Co. v. U. S.

743

only thing they deemed of value, was secured to them by treaty,
until they should elect to surrender it to the United States.
In the free exercise of their choice, they might hold it for ever;
and whatever changed this condition, or interfered with it,
violated the guaranties under which they had lived. The
United States has frequently bought the Indian title, to make
room for civilized men, -the pioneers of the wilderness; but
it has never engaged in advance to do so, nor was constraint,
in theory at least, placed upon the Indians to bring about their
acts of cession. This grant, however, if it took effect on these
lands, carried with it the obligation to extinguish the Indian
right. This will be conceded, if a complete title to them were
granted; but it is equally true if only the fee subject to that
right passed. It would be idle to grant what could be of no
practical benefit unless something be done which the grantee is
forbidden, but which the grantor has power, to do. And this
applies with peculiar force to a grant like this, intended to be
immediately available to the grantee. The lands were expected
to be used in the construction of the road as it progressed; but
they could neither be sold nor mortgaged so long as a valid
adverse right of occupancy attached to them. The grantee
was prohibited from negotiating with the Indians at all; but
the United States might, by treaty, put an end to that right.
As Congress cannot be supposed to do a vain thing, the present
grant of the fee would be an assurance to the grantee that the
full title should be eventually enjoyed. This would be in effect
a transfer of the possessory right of the Indians before acquiring
it, - a poor way of observing a treaty stipulation. How could
they treat on an equality with the United States under such
circumstances? They would be constrained to sell, as the
United States was obliged to buy. Although it might appear
that the sale was voluntary, it would, in fact, be compulsory.
Can the court, in the absence of words of unmistakable import,
presume that an act so injurious to the Indians was intended?
The grant is silent as to such a purpose; but if it was to take
effect in the Osage country, on the surrender of the Indian title,
it would have so declared. It is true the recognized route of
the road passed through that country; but many other roads,
aided by similar grants, ran through such reservations, and in
no case before this has land included in them been considered

744

LEAVENWORTH,

ETC.,

R.R. Co. v. U. S.

[Sup. Ct.

as falling within any grant, whether the Indian right was
extinguished before or after the definite location of the road.
And if Congress really meant that this grant should include
any part of the reservation of the Osages, it would at least
have secured an adequate indemnity to them, and sanctioned a
delay in locating the road until the surrender of their right
should be made. Instead of this, the act contains no provision
for them, and contemplates that the road shall be finished as
soon as practicable. This is inconsistent with a purposd to
grant their land; for they had not proposed to relinquish it, nor
had the President encouraged them to do so. In the face of
this, it is hard to believe that Congress meant to hold out
inducements to the company to postpone fixing the route of
their road until a contingency should happen which the act
did not contemplate. Besides, Congress was bound by every
consideration affecting the condition of the Indians to retain
their lands within its own control. But it is said that the
Indian appropriation bill became a law the same day as the act
under consideration, and that it authorized the President to
enter into negotiations with the several tribes of Indians
residing in Kansas, for the extinction of their title and for their
removal. This is true; but it does not prove any purpose
inconsistent with the policy of the act of 1837 (5 Stat. 135),
which contemplates the sale of all Indian lands ceded to the
government. If Congress had intended to extinguish the Osage
title, for the benefit of the appellant, it would have spoken
directly, as it did in the Pacific Raih-oad act, and not in an
indirect way near the end of one of the general appropriation
bills. The Congress that made this grant made one, eight
months before, to aid in the construction of a railroad from the
Missouri River to the Pacific Ocean, and of other roads connecting therewith; in which it agreed to extinguish as rapidly
as possible the Indian title, for the benefit of the companies.
This was necessary, although their roads ran through territory
occupied by wild tribes; but this passed through a reservation
secured by treaty, and occupied by Indians at least partially
civilized. A transfer of any part of it would be -wrong; and, as
the act does not mention it, there is no reason to suppose that
Congress, in making the grant, contemplated the extinction of
ihe Indian title at all. Besides, the avowed object of the

Oct. 1875.]

LEAVENWORTH,

Ec., R.R. Co. v. U. S.

745

provision in the appropriation act was to remove the Indians.
If any ulterior hidden purpose was to be thereby subserved,
Congress is not responsible for it, nor can it affect this case.
The language used is to be taken as expressing the legislative intention, and the large inference attempted to be drawn from it is
not authorized. It does not follow, because Congress sanctioned
negotiations to effect the removal of the Indians from Kansas, as
a disturbing element of her population, and to procure their land
for settlement, that it also contemplated obtaining the title of
any tribe in order to convey it by this grant. The policy of removal - a favorite one with the government, and always encouraged by it - looked to the extinguishment of the Indian title for
the general good, and not for the special benefit of any particular
interest. But the two acts have no necessary connection with
each other, because they happened to be approved on the 3d
of March. The laws signed by the President that day occupy
one hundred pages of the twelfth volume of the statutes.
We are not without authority that the general words of this
grant do not include an Indian reservation. In Wilcox v. Jack801, 13 Pet. 498, the President, by proclamation, had ordered
the sale of certain lands, without excepting therefrom a military
reservation included within their boundaries. The proclamation
was based on an act of Congress supposed to authorize it; but
this court held that the act did not apply, and then added,
"We go further, and say, that whenever a tract of land shall
have been once legally appropriated to any purpose, from that
moment the land thus appropriated becomes severed from the
mass of public lands; and that no subsequent law, proclamation, or sale would be construed to embrace or operate
upon it, although no reservation were made of it." It
may be urged that it was not necessary in deciding that case
to pass upon the question; but, however this may be, the
principle asserted is sound and reasonable, and we accept it as
a rule of construction. The supreme cou:rts of Wisconsin and
Texas have adopted it in cases where the point was necessarily
involved. State v. Delesdenier,7 Tex. 76;' pauldingv. MLJartin,
11 Wis. 274. It applies with more force .to Indian than to
military reservations. The latter are the absolute property of
the government; in the former, other rights are vested. 'Congress cannot be supposed to grant them by a subsequent law,

746

LEAVENWORTH, ETC.,

R.R. Co. v. U. S.

[Sup. Ct.

general in its terms. Specific language, leaving no room for
doubt as to the legislative will, is required for such a purpose.
But this case does not rest alone on the words of description
in the grant; for the Osage lands are expressly excepted by
force of the following proviso "That any and all lands heretofore reserved to the United
States, by any act of Congress, or in any other manner by competent authority, for the purpose of aiding in any object of internal
improvement, orfor any other .purposewhatsoever, be, and the same
are hereby, reserved to the United States from the operation of this
act, except so far as it may be found necessary to locate the routes
of said road and branches through such reserved lands; in which
case, the right of way only shall be granted, subject to the approval
of the President of the United States."
In construing a public grant, as we have seen, the intention
of the grantor, gathered from the whole and every part of it,
must prevail. If, on examination, there. are doubts about
that intention or the extent of the grant, the government is
to receive the benefit of them. This proviso has, in our
opinion, no doubtful meaning. Attached in substantially the
same form to all railroad land-grant acts passed since 1850,
it was employed to make plainer the purpose of Congress to
exclude from their operation lands which, by reason of prior
appropriation, were not in a condition to be granted to a State
to aid it in building railroads. It would be strange, indeed, if,
by such an act, Congress meant to give away property which
a just and wise policy had devoted to other purposes. That
lands dedicated to the use of the Indians should, upon every
principle of natural right, be carefully guarded by the government, and saved from a possible grant, is a proposition which
will command universal assent. What ought to be done,
has been done. The proviso was not necessary to do it; but it
serves to fix more definitely what is granted by what is excepted.
All lands "heretofore reserved," that is, reserved before the
passage of the act, "by competent authority, for any purpose
whatsoever," are excepted by the proviso. This language is
broad and comprehensive. It unquestionably covers these
landg. They had been reserved by treaty before the act of 1863
was passed. It is said, however, that having been reserved,

Oct. 1875.]

LEAVENWORTH,

Ec., R.R. Co. v. U. S.

747

not "to the United States," but to the Osages, they are, there.
fore, not within the terms of the proviso. This position is
untenable. It would leave the proviso without effect; because
all the reservations through which this road was to pass were
Indian. This fact was recognized, and the right of way
granted through them, subject to the approval of the President.
Through his negotiations with the Indians, he secured it in
season for the operations of the company. Besides, there were
no other lands over which he could exercise any authority to
obtain that right. And why grant it by words vesting its
immediate enjoyment, unless it was contemplated that the roads
would be constructed during the existence of those reservations?
But the verbal criticism, that these lands were not, within the
meaning of this proviso, reserved "to the United States," is
unsound. The treaty reserved them as much to one as to the
other of the contracting parties. Both were interested therein,
and had title thereto. In one sense, they were reserved to the
Indians; but, in another and broader sense, to the United States,
for the use of the Indians.
Every tract set apart for special uses is reserved to the
government, to enable it to enforce them. There is no difference, in this respect, whether it be appropriated for Indian or
for other purposes. There is an equal obligation resting on the
government to require that neither class of reservations be
diverted from the uses to which it was assigned. Out of a
vast tract of land ceded by the Osages, a certain portion was
retained for their exclusive enjoyment, as long as they chose to
possess it. The government covenanted that they should not
be disturbed, except with their voluntary consent first obtained ;
and a grant of their land would be such a manifest breach of
this covenant, that Congress, in order to leave no possible room
for doubt, specially excepted it by the proviso. A construction
whi;h would limit it to land set apart for military posts and
the like, and deny its application to that appropriated for
Indian occupation, is more subtle than sound. This proviso, or
rather one couched in the same language, was the subject of
consideration by this court, and received a liberal interpretation,
instead of the technical and narrow one claimed for it by the
appellant. Wolcott v. .Des Moines Navigation Co., 5 Wall. 681,

748

LEAVENWORTH,

ETC., R.R. Co. v. U. S.

[Sup. Ct.

was a controversy concerning the title to certain lands, which,
it was conceded, were covered by a grant, unless excluded by
the proviso thereunto annexed. The court held that they were
excluded, although they had not been reserved "to the United
States." They had been, in fact, reserved by the executive
officers of the government, upon a mistaken construction of a
prior grant made by the United States to the State of Iowa.
This decision was reaffirmed in Williams v. Baker, 17 id. 144.
The scope and effect of the act of 1863 cannot, in our opinion,
be mistaken. The different parts harmonize with each other,
and present in a clear light the scheme as an entirety. Kansas
needed railroads to develop her resources, and Congress was
willing to aid her to build them, by a grant of a part of the
national domain, in a condition at the time to be disposed of.
It was accordingly made of alternate sections of land within
ten miles on each side of the contemplated roads. Formerly,
lands which would probably be affected by a grant were, as soon
as it was made, if not in advance of it, withdrawn from market.
But experience proved that this practice retarded the settlement
of the country, and at the date of this act the rule was not to
withdraw them until the road should be actually located. In
this way, the- ordinary working of the land system was not
disturbed. Private entries, pre-emption, and homestead settlements, and reservations for special uses, continued within
the supposed limits of the grant, the same as if it had not been
made. But they ceased when the routes of the roads were
definitely fixed; and if it then appeared that a part of the lands
within those limits had been either sold at private entry, taken
up by pre-emptors, or reserved by the United States, an equivalent was provided. The companies were allowed to select,
under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, in lieu of
the lands disposed of in either of these ways, an equal number
of odd sections nearest to those granted, and within twenty
miles of the line of the road. Having thus given lands in
place and by way of indemnity, Congress expressly declared,
what the act already implied, that lands otherwise appropriated
when it was passed were not subject to it.
The indemnity clause has been insisted upon. We have
before said that the grant itself was in prmsenti, and covered

Oct. 1875.]

LEAVENWORTH,

ETC., R.R. Co. v. U.

S.

749

all the odd sections which should appear, on the location of the
road, to have been within the grant when it was made. The
right to them did not, however, depend on such location, but
attached at once on the making of the grant. It is true they
could not be identified until the line of the road was marked
out on the ground; but, as soon as this was done, it was easy to
find them. If the company did not obtain all of them within
the original limit, by reason of the power of sale or reservation
retained by the United States, it was to be compensated by an
equal amount of substituted lands. The latter could not, on
any contingency, be selected within that limit; and the attempt
to give this effect to the clause receives no support, either in
the scheme of the act or in any thing that has been urged by
counsel. It would be strange, indeed, if the clause had been
intended to perform the office of making a new grant within
the ten-mile limit, or enlarging the one already made. Instead
of this, the words employed show clearly that its only purpose is to give sections beyond that limit, for those lost within
it by the action of the government between the date of the
grant and the location of the road. This construction gives
effect to the whole statute, and makes each part consistent with
the other. But, even if the clause were susceptible of a more
extended meaning, it is still subject to, and limited by, the
proviso which excludes all lands reserved at the date of the
grant, and not simply those found to be reserved when the line
of the road shall be definitely fixed. The latter contingency
had been provided for in the clause; and, if the proviso did not
take effect until that time, it would be wholly unnecessary.
And these lands being within the terms of the proviso, as we
construe it, it follows that they are absolutely and unconditionally excepted from the grant; and it makes no difference
whether or not they subsequently became a part of the public
lands of the country.
But the appellant claims that these lands were subjected to
this grant by virtue of the senate amendment to the Osage
treaty, concluded Sept. 29, 1865, and proclaimed in 1867. If
the amendment has this effect, it is entirely inconsistent with
the purposes of the treaty. The United States had not made
an absolute or a contingent grant of the lands. There was,

LEAVENWORTH, ETC.,

R.R. Co. v. U. S.

[Sup. Ot.

manifestly, no reason why the Osages should bestow a gratuity
on the appellant; and the treaty itself, as originally framed,
disclaims such an intention. Whatever they did give was
limited to persons from whom they had received valuable services, and they so expressly stated. Their annuities had ceased.
Confessed poverty, and the desire to improve their condition,
induced them to negotiate. They had a surplus of land, but
r.o money. The United States, in pursuance of a long-settled
policy, desired to open that land to settlement. Induced by
these considerations, the parties concluded a treaty, which was
submitted to the senate for its constitutional action. By the
first article the Osages ceded, on certain conditions, a large and
valuable part of their possessions. The United States was
required to survey and sell it on the most advantageous terms,
for cash, in conformity with the system then in operation for
surveying and selling the public lands, with the restriction that
neither pre-emption claims nor homestead settlements were to
be recognized. The proceeds, after deducting enough to repay
advances and expenses, were to be placed in the treasury to the
credit of the "civilization fund," for the benefit of the Indian
tribes throughout the country.
The moneys arising from the sale of the lands ceded by the
second article were for the exclusive benefit of the Osages ; but
the relation of the United States to the property in each case
is the same. And it can make no difference that the trust in
one is specifically set forth, and in the other is to be ascertained
from the general scope of the language. It is an elementary
principle, that no particular form of words is necessary to create
a trust. In neither case is the government a beneficiary. In
both, the fund is to be applied to promote the well-being of the
Indians, which it has ever been the cherished policy of Con.
gress to secure.
Neither party contemplated that a part of the lands was to
be given to a corporation, to aid in building a railroad. And,
if the appellant gets any of them, it is manifest that the treaty
cannot be carried into effect, nor can the trusts therein limited
and declared be executed. As neither the act of 1863 nor the
treaty in its original shape grants the tracts in controversy, the
I
inquiry presents itself as to the effect of the amendment.

Oct. 1875.]

LEAVENWORTH, ETC.,

R.R. Co. v. U. S.

751

The provision on this subject, with the amendment in brackets, reads as follows: "Said lands shall be surveyed and sold under the direction of the
Secretary of the Interior, on the most advantageous terms for cash,
as public lands are surveyed and sold under existing laws [including any act granting lands to the State of Kansas in aid of the construction of a railroad through said lands] ; but no pre-emption
claim or homestead settlement shall be recognized."
Tested by its literal, meaning and grammatical structure, this
amendment relates solely to the survey and sale of the lands,
and cannot be extended further. It was doubtless so explained
to the Indians when they accepted it. But obscure as it is,
and indefinite as is its purport, it was intended to"do more than
declare what laws should be observed in surveying and selling
the lands. But -whateverpurpose it was meant to serve, it obviously does not, proprio vigore, make a grant. To do this, other
words must be introduced; but treaties, like statutes, must rest
on the words used, -" nothing adding thereto, nothing diminishing." In Rex v. Barrell, 12 Ad. & El. 468, Patteson, J.,
said, "I see the necessity of not importing into statutes words
which are not found there. Such a mode of interpretation
only gives occasion to endless difficulty." Courts have always
treated the subject in the same way, when asked to supply
words in order to give a statute a particular meaning which it
would not bear without them. Bex v. Poor Law Comm'rs, 6
Ad. & Ell. 7; .Everett v. Wells, 2 Scott (N. C.), 531; Green
v. Wood, 7 Q. B. 178.
It is urged that the amendment, if it does not make a grant,
recognizes one already made: It does not say so; and we cannot suppose that the senate, when it advised and consented to
the ratification of the treaty with that among other amend
ments, intended that the Indians, by assenting to them, should
recognize a grant that had no existence. Information was,
doubtless, communicated to that body, that there were grants of
some of the ceded lands which might interfere with the absolute disposal of them required by the treaty. If there were
such grants, it was obviously proper that the treaty should be
so modified as not to conflict with rights vested under them.
But the senate left that question to the proper tribunal ;, and

LEAVENWORTHI, ETC., R.R. Co. v. U. S.

[Sup. Ct.

declared, in effect, that such grants, if made by existing laws,
should be respected in the disposition of the lands. On this
interpretation, the amendment in question is consistent with the
treaty. But if that contended for by the appellant be correct,
the treaty is practically defeated. If no such grant had been
made, lands would be taken from the Osages without either
their consent or that of Congress, and appropriated to building
railroads; for no one can fail to see that interested outside parties, having access to these ignorant Indians, would explain the
amendment as a harmless thing. In concluding the treaty,
neither party thereto supposed that any grant attached to the
'lands; for, as we have seen, all were to be sold, and the fund
invested. Did the senate intend to charge them with a grant,
whether it had really been made or not? If so, the treaty
would have been altered to conform to so radical a change in
its essential provisions, by excepting the lands covered by the
grant instead of directing them to be sold. Why sell all, if the
status of a part was fixed absolutely by the amendment? In
such a case, justice to the companies required that they should
have the lands granted to them. The United States should,
also, to this extent, be relieved of its trust. But, if the
amendment was designed to operate only in the contingency
that a grant had been made, there was no occasion to alter the
treaty further than to say, as it now substantially does say, that
the companies, if entitled to the lands, should get them. No
objection could justly be made to such a provision. It preserved vested rights, but did not create new ones. Without
solving the problem whether or not a grant had been made, it
decided that the rights of the dompanies, if any they had,
should not be barred or impaired by reason of the general
terms of the treaty. It is argued that the Osages are not
injured by taking a portion of their country, as an enhanced
value would be given to the remainder by the construction of
the appellant's road. This is taking for granted what may or
may not be true. Besides, they cannot be despoiled of any
part of their inheritance upon such a fallacious pretence, and
they chose to have all their lands sold. To this the United
States assented by positive stipulation. We do not think that
it was the intent of the amendment to annul that stipulation,

Oct. 1875.]

LEAVENWORTH, ETC.,

R.R. Co. v. U. S.

753

or to construe statutes upon which the title of the appellant
depends. Its office was to protect rights that might be asserted,
independently of the treaty, but not to declare that any such
rights existed.
The Thayer Act, as it is called, is invoked; but it can have
no effect upon this case. It was passed for the sole purpose of
enabling the company to relocate its road; and a false recital in
it cannot turn the authority thereby given into a grant of lands
or a recognition of one. Especially is this so, when it expressly
leaves the rights of the appellant to be determined by previous
legislation. Besides this, these lands were then selling under
a joint resolution; and it cannot be presumed that the Congress of 1871 intended to change the disposition of them,
directed by the Congress of 1869.
It is urged that parties have loaned money on the faith that
the lands in question were covered by the grant.
This is a subject of regret, as is always the case when a title,
on the strength of which money has been advanced, fails. It
is to be hoped that the security taken upon the other property
of the company will prove to be sufficient to satisfy the claims
of the holders of its bonds. But whether this be so or not, we
need hardly say that the title to lands is not strengthened by
giving a mortgage upon them; nor can the fact that it has been
given throw any light upon the prior estate of the mortgagor.
Upon the fullest consideration we have been able to bestow
upon this case, we are clearly of opinion that there is no error
in the record.
-Decree affirmed.
with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE
dissenting.
I do not agree with the majority of the court in this case.
In my judgment, the land in controversy passed by the grant
of Congress to the State of Kansas, and by the patents of the
State to the defendant. In reliance upon the title conferred, a
large portion of the money was raised with which the road of
the company was built. I cannot think that the legislation of
Congress, and the subsequent action in conformity to it of the
Department of the Interior and of the State of Kansas, deceived both company and creditors.
MI.

JUSTICE FIELD,

SWAYNE and MR. JUSTICE STRONG,

VOL.

n.

48

754

LEAVENWORTH, Ec., R.R. Co. v. U. S.

[Sup. Ct.

The act of Congress appears to me to be singularly plain and
free from obscurity. "There be and is hereby granted to the
State of Kansas," are the words used, for the purpose of aiding
in the construction of a railroad and telegraph between certain
places, alternate odd sections of land along each side of the
road and its branches. These words were sufficiently comprehensive to pass whatever interest the United States possessed
in the lands. If there were any limitation upon their operation, it lay either in the character of the property granted, as
lands in the occupation of Indian tribes, or in the subsequent
reservations of the act.
The road with which the-present company is concerned was
to be constructed through the tract situated in the southern
part of the State, known as the Osage reservation. Upon this
tract the Osage tribes of Indians resided under the treaty of
June 2, 1825, by which the tract was reserved to them so long
as they might choose to occupy it. 7 Stat. 240. The fee of
the land was in the United States, with the right of occupation,
under the treaty, in the Indians. Until this right was relinquished, the occupancy could not be disturbed by any power
except that of the United States. The only right of Indian
tribes to land anywhere within the United States is that of
occupancy. Such has been the uniform ruling of this court;
and upon its correctness the government has acted from its
commencement. In Fletcher v. Peck, which was here as long
ago as 1810, it was suggested by counsel on the argument that
the power of the State of Georgia to grant did not extend to
lands to which the Indian title had not been extinguished; but
Mr. Chief Justice Marshall replied, that the majority of the
court were of opinion that the nature of the Indian title, which
was certainly to be respected until legitimately extinguished,
was not such as to be absolutely repugnant to seisin in fee on
the part of the State. 6 Cranch, 121, 142, 143.
In Clark v. Smith, 13 Pet. 200, decided many years afterwards, Mr. Justice Cation, speaking of grants made by North
Carolina and Virginia of lands within Indian hunting-grounds,
said that these States "to a great extent paid their officers and
soldiers of the Revolutionary war by such grants, and extinguished the arrears due the army by similar means. It was one

Oct. 1875.]

LEAVENWORTH,

EC., R.R. Co. v. U. S.

of the great resources that sustained the war, not only by these
States, but others. The ultimate fee encumbered with the
Indian right of occupancy was in the crown, previous to the
Revolution, and in the States of the Union afterwards, and subject to grant."
And in the recent case of the United States v. Cook, where
replevin was brought for timber cut and sold by Indians on
lands reserved to them, the court said that the fee of the land
was in the United States, subject only to a right of occupancy
in the Indians; that this right of occupancy was as sacred as
that of the United States to the fee; but it was "only a right
of occupancy," and "that the possession, when abandoned by
the Indians, attaches itself to the fee without further grant."
19 Wall. 593.
It would seem, therefore, clear that there was nothing in the
character of the land as an Indian reservation which could prevent the operation of the grant of Congress, subject to the right
of occupancy retained by the Indians; so that, when this right
should be relinquished, the possession would inure to the
grantee.
It is true that the United States, acting in good faith, could
only acquire the relinquishment of the Indian right of occupancy by treaty; and so the authors of the bill for the grant
understood. The representative of Kansas in the Senate of
the United States, by whom the bill was introduced, preceded
its presentation with a notice of his intention to introduce at
the same time a bill for extinguishing the Indian title in Kansas, and the removal of the Indians beyond her borders. The
two bills were introduced within a few days of each other; and
both became a law on the same day. The one for the extinguishment of the Indian title was incorporated into the appropriation bill, and authorized the President to enter into treaty
for that purpose with the several tribes of Indians then residing in the State, and for their own removal beyond its limits.
Pursuant to this authority, a treaty was subsequently made
with the Osage Indian tribes; and, before the line of the road
of the defendant company was definitely fixed, their right of
occupancy to the lands in controversy was extinguished.
I proceed to the next inquiry: Was there any thing in the

156

LEAVENWORTH, ETc.,

R.R. Co. v. U. S.

[Sup. Ct.

reservations of the act which limited the operation of the general words of grant? There were two reservations in the act, one general and the other special, the latter being in the proviso. The general reservation only excepted from the operation of the grant lands which, at the time the line of the road
and its branches was definitely fixed, were sold or reserved, or
to which the right of pre-emption or homestead settlenient had
then attached.
The sections granted could only be ascertained when the
route of the road was established; but, as this might take years,
the government did not in the mean time withhold the lands
from settlement and sale upon any notion that the route might
possibly pass through or near them. It kept the lands generally open to the settler or pre-emptor, and subject at all times
to appropriation for public uses; and the object of the general
reservation mentioned was to provide for the possible acquisition of interests in this way to lands falling within the limits
of the grant. When they did so fall, other lands in their place
were to be selected. It was only when the route was definitely
fixed that the right of sale or settlement or reservation ended,
and the title previously floating attached to the land subject to
the grant. This was the construction adopted by the land department, and was the one which most fully fitted in with the
general policy of the government in other cases in the disposition of the public lands.
In 1856 the question arose before the Department of the
Interior as to the construction of a similar provision in the act
of Congress of May 15 of that year, granting lands to the State
of Iowa, and was submitted to the then attorney-general, Cushing; and he replied that the act contemplated that the United
States should retain power to convey within all the possible
limits of the grant, either by ordinary sale or on pre-emption,
ap to the time when the lines or routes of the road were definitely fixed. 8 Op. Att'y-Gen. 246.
Whilst the operation of the grant may, on the one hand, be
thus limited by what occurs subsequent to the act, it may, on
the other hand, be enlarged by subsequent removal of existing
impediments; such as Teservations, contracts of sale, and initiatory steps for acquiring rights of pre-emption and homestead

Oct. 1875.]

LEAVENWORTH,

EC., R.R. Co. v. U. S.

757

settlement. The question in either case respects the condition
of the land at the time the line or route of the road is definitely
fixed. If a previous reservation, whether existing before the
act o made afterwards, be then relinquished, or a previous
contract of sale or right of pre-emption or homestead settlement be then abandoned, the grant will, in my judgment, take
the land. Such I understand to be the ruling of the land
department; and it is difficult to perceive any reasons of public
policy which should prevent the land in such cases from passing under the grant.
The special reservation contained in the proviso to the act
in terms applies only to lands reserved to the United States.
There have been, from the outset of the government, reservations of lands for public uses of various kinds, through which a
right of way for a public highway or railroad might-well be
granted, subject to the approval of the President, who would
see that the property was not injured. To protect lands thus
situated, or lands reserved to the government for similar public
purposes, the proviso applied. The lands now in controversy,
occupied by the Osage Indians, were set apart to them: they
-were not reserved to the United States in any sense in which
those terms can be properly used.
The treaty of 1825, under which the lands were held, distinguishes between reservations to the Indians and reservations to
the United States, and speaks of both in the same article (art. 2).
The argument of the majority of the court on this head
appears to me to defeat itself. The proviso, it is contended,
excluded from the operation of the grant any of the lands
occupied by the Indians: it would have been a great breach of
faith, it is said, to apply the grant to any of those lands. But
at the same time, it is admitted that the act contemplated a
right of way through those lands for the road. It is difficult to
perceive how taking the lesser quantity of the land for a right
of way, if done without treaty, could have been any less a
breach of faith; and, if done by treaty, the taking might as
-well have extended to the whole lands. As the Congress
which made the grant also authorized the President to obtain
an extinguishment of the right of occupancy from the Indians,
it would seem that there ought not to be any greater reproach

758

LEAVENWORTH, ETC., R.R. Co. V. U. S.

[Sup. Ct.

in providing for the acquisition of the lands, than in providing
for the acquisition of the right of way.
But, aside from this consideration, if the conclusion were at
all doubtful, which I do not think it is, there is a rule applicable to the construction of provisos in a grant, which should
determine the question here; and that is, that they must be
strictly construed. In United States v. Dixon, Mr. Justice
Story stated, that it was "the general rule of law, which has
always prevailed and become consecrated almost as a maxim in
the interpretation of statutes, that where the enacting clause is
general in its language and objects, and a proviso is afterwards
introduced, that proviso is construed strictly, and takes no
case out of the enacting clause which does not fall fairly
within its terms. In short, a proviso carves special exceptions
only out of the enacting clause; and those who set up any
such exception must establish it as being within the words as
well as within the reason thereof." 15 Pet. 165. I submit confidently that the proviso here thus construed would not take the
lands in controversy out of the enacting clause of the act.
The proviso itself is a formula used in nearly all land-grants;
and is inserted out of abundant caution, even where there are
no special reservations on which it can operate. But in this
case there was the military reservation at Fort Gibson, which
would have passed under the grant but for the proviso.
There is, then, in my judgment, nothing in the reservations
contained in the act which should prevent the operation of the
granting words upon the lands within the Osage reservation.
But, were there any doubt whether the act was intended to
cover these Indian lands, that doubt would be removed by the
recognition of the grant in the treaty with the Indians and the
subsequent legislation of Congress. The treaty was adopted on
the 29th of September, 1865. Stat. 687, 692. It provided that,
in consideration of the sale of the lands, the United States sho ild
pay $300,000, to be placed to the credit of the Indians in the
treasury of the United States; and should pay interest thereon
in money, clothing, provisions, and such articles of utility as the
Secretary of the Interior might from time to time diroct. Andit
declared, as originally drawn, that the lands should be surveyed
and sold as public lands are surveyed and sold under existing

Oct. 1875.]

LEAVENWORTH, ETC.,

R.R. Co. v. U. S.

759

laws. But, when the treaty was under consideration by the
Senate, it was amended in this particular, so as to conform to
the act granting the lands to Kansas. That act provided that
the alternate sections reserved from the grant, within ten miles
of the road or its branches, should be sold at double the minimum price of the public lands. The amendment inserted in
the treaty added, immediately after the provision for the survey
and sale under existing laws, the words "including any act
granting lands to the State of Kansas in aid of the construction
of a railroad through said lands;" so that the provision required
that the sale of the lands of the Osage Indians should be made
in accordance with existing laws, including among them the
one granting lands to Kansas. Here is a clear recognition that
that act was intended to cover the Indian lands. This recognition was not limited merely to the senate; for the attention
of both houses of Congress was called to the subject by the
appropriation which the treaty required and Congress made.
Again: in January, 1871, Congress passed an act authorizing
the company, for the purpose of impr6ving its route and accommodating the country, to relocate any portion of its road south
3f the town of Thayer, within the limits of its grant as prescribed by the act of Congress. The town of Thayer was
situated within the boundaries of the Osage lands. The act
also declared, that the company should not thereby- that is,
by the relocation-change, enlarge, or diminish the land-grant;
and this declaration is held by the majority of the court to
destroy the effect of the act as a recognition of the grant of the
Indian lands. How it does so I am unable to see. When it
declares that the company may alter its road south of a particular point within the limits of its grant, the act does admit that
the company has a grant, and that the grant lies south of that
point; and this admission is not affected by the further declaration that the company shall not thereby change, enlarge, or
diminish the grant.
But I will not pursue the subject further. The conclusion
reached by the court appears to me to work great injustice.
The government of the United States, through one set of its
officers, after mature deliberation and argument of counsel, has
issued its certificates or lists, that the lands in controversy were

760

LEAVENWORTH,

ETC., R.R. Co. v. U. S.

[Sup. Ct.

covered by the grant, and has thus encouraged the expenditure
of millions of money in the construction of a public highway,
by which the wilderness has been opened to civilization and
settlement; and then, on the other hand, after the work has
been done and the money expended, has, with another set of
officers and all the machinery of the judiciary, attempted to
render and has succeeded in rendering utterly worthless the
titles it aided to create and put forth upon the world. Such
proceedings are not calculated, in my judgment, to enhance
our ideas of the wisdom with which the law is administered, or
of the justice of the government.
I am of opinion that the decree should be reversed.
NoTE.- 1issourt,Kansas,and Texas Railway Compbny v. United States, appeal
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Kansas, is, in its
essential features, the same as the preceding case, and was argued by the same
counsel.
AIR. JUSTICE DAvis delivered the opinion of the court.

The decision in

Leavenworth, Lawrence, and Galveston Railroad Company v. United States, supra,
p. 733, cofitrols this case. Each company claims a grant of land within the
Osage reservation. This case involves substantially the same questions as the
other; with this difference, that the act of July 25, 1866 (14 Stat. 289), under
which the appellant claims, was passed after the amendment had been advised by the senate, and the treaty was beyond its control.
In any aspect of this case, the appellant cannot recover. The amendment
refers only to existing laws, and does not apply to the act of 1866, as it was not
then in force. It is true that the bill, which subsequently became a law, was
pending at the same time as the treaty ; but if the senate intended the amendment to apply not only to existing but to contemplated grants, language appropriate to such a purpose would have been used. This remark applies to
Congress also; for if it meant, notwithstanding the provisions of the treaty, to
grant these lands, words would have been employed to include them, or at
least take them out of the proviso. But the result is the same, whether
the act is to be treated as taking effect before or after the treaty became
operative by the proclamation of the President on the 21st of January, 1867.
If it was in force for all purposes on the day it passed, then the Indian
title even was not extinguished, as the treaty had not been ratified. But if
it be considered as in any sense taking effect after the ratification, then the
claim of the appellant is defeated by the terms of the treaty. These lands,
having been thereby set apart to be surveyed and sold for the benefit of the
Indians, were "otherwise appropriated," as much as they had been before the
treaty was concluded, and were consequently reserved within the meaning of
the excepting clause in the act.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE SWAYNE,
xIR.JUSTICE FIz,
and Mx. JUSTICE STRONG
dissented.

