I

POTTS ET AL. V. CHU1TIASERO ET AL.

[Sup. Ct

and performs the same duty as if the lead were not in the same
pencil. A pencil is laid down and a rubber is taken up, the one
to write, the other to erase : a pencil is turned over to erase
with, or an eraser is turned over to write with. The principle
is the same in both instances. It may be more convenient to
have the two instruments on one rod than on two. There may
be a security against the absence of the tools of an artist or
mechanic from the fact, that, the greater the number, the greater
the danger of loss. It may be more convenient to turn over
the different ends of the same stick than to lay down one stick
and take up another. This, however, is not invention within
the patent law, as the authorities cited fully show. There is
no relation between the instruments in the performance of their
several functions, and no reciprocal action, no parts used in
common.
We are of the opinion, that, for the reasons given, neither the
patent of Lipman nor the improvement of Becikendorfer can
be sustained, and that the judgment of the Circuit Court
dismissing the bill must be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STRO.C\G dissenting.

I dissent from so much of the opinion of the majority of the
court as holds that the instrument or manufacture described
in the patents exhibits no sufficient invention to warrant the
grant of a patent for it.
MRi. JUSTICE DAVIS and MIR. JUSTICE BRADLEY also dis-

sented.
POTTS ET AL. V.

Hn-UMASERO BtT AL.

Writs of error and appeals lie to this court from the Supreme court of the Territory of Montana only in cases where the value of the property or the amount
in controversy exceeds the sum of one thousand dollars, and from decisions
upon writs of habeas corpus involving the question of personal freedom. Rev.
Stat., sect. 1909.

to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Montana.
Sect. I of an act of the legislature of the Territory of Montana, approved Feb. 11, 1874 (Laws of Montana, 8th sess.,
1874, p. 43), provides, ERROR

Oct. 1875.]

POTTS

ET AL. V. CHUMASERO

ET AL.

"That the seat of government of the Territory of Montana be,
and the same is hereby, changed from the city of Virginia, in the
county of Madison, to the town of Helena, in the county of Lewis
and Clark, upon the approval hereof as hereinafter provided."
Sect. 2 provides that the question of removal shall be submitted to the qualified electors of the Territory at the general
election to be held in 1874.
Sect. 3 prescribes the method of voting on the question, an(L
provides, that, if a greater number of votes are cast for the
removal than against it, "it shall be taken, deemed, and held
that this law has been duly approved, and that the seat of government of the Territory of Montana has been in due form of
law removed to the said town of Helena, and the governor
shall make public proclamation thereof."
Sect. 5 provides that the votes cast for the approval of this
law shall be counted, returned, and canvassed in the same
manner and by the same persons and officers as votes for delegate in Congress.
Sect. 20 of the codified statutes of Montana (c. 23, p. 466)
makes it "the duty of the secretary of the Territory, with a
marshal of the Territory or his deputy, in presence of the
governor, to proceed within thirty days after the election, and
sooner if the returns be received, to canvass the votes given
for delegate for Congress; and the governor shall grant a certificate of election to the person having the highest number of
votes, and shall issue a proclamation declaring the election
of such person."
At the general election held in the Territory on the 3d of
August, 1874, the electors voted on the approval or disapproval
of the law above referred to.
On the 2d September, 1874, thirty days after the election,
the secretary and marshal of the Territory, in the presence of
the governor, opened and canvassed the votes returned from the
several counties of the Territory, recorded and signed the
certificate of the count, and adjourned sine die. The canvass thus made showed a majority of the votes against
removal.
On the 11th December, 1874, the defendants in error filed a
petition in the Supreme Court of the Territory, setting forth

POTTS El AL. V. OHUMASERO ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

that they are resident citizens of Helena, in Montana Terri.
tory, and are attorneys and counsellors-at-law; that in the
course of their practic6, in order to attend the sessions of the
Supreme Court, "they are required and compelled to make frequent journeys to the seat of government of said Territory;
that heretofore they have been required and compelled to
make frequent journeys to the city of Virginia," -where the
seat of government was located, and where it has hitherto remained, and where the records of said court, and clerk thereof,
continue to remain ; that, in order to attend to their professional duties, they are obliged to expend large sums of money
in and about defraying their expenses for fare in stage-coaches
thereto and therefrom, and for board and lodging at hotels
along the route and at said city; and that they are therefore
beneficially interested in having the seat of government and
the Supreme Court of said Territory removed to Helena, which
is about one hundred miles distant from said city.
The petition then sets forth in substance that the votes of
two counties, although duly returned, had been improperly
excluded, and that, had they been counted, the result would
have been different; and it concludes by praying that a writ
of mandate be issued to the plaintiffs in error, - viz., the governor, secretary, and marshal of the Territory, - commanding
them again to canvass the votes in accordance with the findings
and judgment of the court.
A demurrer to the petition having been overruled, the plaintiffs in error answered, denying its allegations, and setting up
that the removal of the seat of government would involve an
expense to the United States of $3,000.
The court found the facts for the petitioners, and issued the
writ of mandate as prayed for: whereupon the case was
brought here.
fr. RicIhard T. Merrick, for the defendants in error, in support of a motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction.
Hr. James A. Garfield, contra.
MR. CB=s JUsTIcE WAiTE delivered the opinion of the
court.
We have no jurisdiction in this case. Writs of error and

Oct. 1875.]

PorTs ET AL. V. CHUDIASERO E

AL.

appeals lie to this court from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Montana only in cases where the value of the property
or the amount in controversy exceeds the sum of 81,000, and
from decisions upon writs of habeas corpus involving the question of personal freedom. Rev. Stat., sect. 1909.
In Barry v. 31ercien, 5 How. 120, it was held, Chief Justice
Taney speaking for the court, that, in order to give us jurisdiction in a case dependent upon the amount in controversy, "the
matter in dispute must be money, or some right, the value of
which in money can be calculated and ascertained." This rule
has been followed in many cases. Prattv. Fitzhughi, I Black,
273; De Krafft v. Barry, 2 id. 714.
In the present case, the contest is not for money, or any right
the value of which can be measured by money. The petitioners, to show that they have such a special interest in the question presented for adjudication as entitles them to commence
and maintain the action, allege that they are attorneys and
counsellors-at-law, and that, by the removal of the seat of government from Helena to Virginia City, their expenses will be
increased while in attendance upon the courts pursuant to their
professional engagements. But this is not the matter in controversy. The contest is as to the validity of certain proceedings
for the removal of the seat of government for the Territory.
The interest which the petitioners have in that contest is not
in any sense property. Besides, they do not complain.
The defendants, who are the plaintiffs in error here, do not
claim to be personally interested pecuniarily in the litigation.
They only state in their answer, that, if a removal is had, the
United States will be put to an expense of $3,000. But in this
proceeding they do not represent the United States. They are
government officials; but they do not appear here in their official capacity. By a law of the Territory, it has been made
their duty to canvass the votes cast at a Territorial election.
In this they act for the people of the Territory, and not for the
United States. They derive all their authority for this purpose
from a law of the Territory, and not from a law of Congress.
If a judgment is given against them, they will not lose any
money; neither will the petitioners gain any from them.
Writ dismissed for want of jurisdiction

