NEW YORK LIFE

INS.

Co. v. HENDREN.

[Sup. Ct.

NEW YoRiK LIFE INSURAxcE ComPANY v. HENENDR

.

This court has no jurisdiction to re-examine the judgment of a State court in a
case where the pleadings and the instructions asked for and refused present
questions as to the effect, under the general public law, of a sectional civil
war upon the contract which was the subject of the suit, and when it was not
contended that that law, as applicable to the case, had been modified or suspended by the constitution, laws, treaties, or executive proclamations, of the
United States

Ei RoRt to the Supreme Court of Appeals of the State of
Virginia.
The plaintiff in error, a company incorporated under the
laws of the State of New York, having its home office in NewYork City, issued its policy of insurance, bearing date Aug. 25,
1856, to Mrs. Hendren, the defendant in error, on the life of
her husband. The insurance was negotiated through an agent
of the company at Norfolk, in Virginia, in which State Mrs.
Hendren and her husband then, and until his death, resided.
He died Aug. 15, 1862.
She brought this suit to recover the amount of the policy.
Judgment was rendered in her favor in the Court of the Corporation of the City of Norfolk, which was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of Appeals of the State. The company sued
out this writ of error.
ilfr. Edward 0. Hinkley for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Albert Bitchie, contra.
MR. CMIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
This record does not show that any Federal question was decided or necessarily involved in the judgment rendered by the
court below. The pleadings, as well as the instructions asked
and refused, present questions of general law alone. The court
was asked to decide as to the effect, under the general public
law, of a state of sectional civil, war upon the contract of life
insurance, which was the subject of the action. It was not
contended, so far as we can discover, that the general laws of
war, as recognized by the law of nations applicable to this case,
were in any respect modified or suspended by the constitution,

Oct. 1875.]

NEW YORK LIFE INS.

CO. v. HENDREN.

287

laws, treaties, or executive proclamations, of the United States.
This distinguishes the present case from ihfatthews v. 3fcStea,
where jurisdiction was taken at the last term (20 Wall. 640), and
the case decided at the present term. 91 U. S. 7. The question
was there presented, whether the President's proclamation of
April 19, 1861, did not suspend, for the time being, the operation of that principle in the law of war which prohibited
commercial intercourse in time of war between the adherents
of the two contending powers. Here there is nothing of the
kind.
Our jurisdiction over the decisions of the State courts is
limited. It is not derived from the citizenship of the parties,
but from the questions involved and decided. It must appear
in the record, or we cannot proceed. We act upon questions
actually presented to the court below, not upon such as might
have been presented or brought into the case, but were not.
The case, therefore, having been presented to the court below
for decision upon principles of general law alone, and it nowhere appearing that the constitution, laws, treaties, or
executive proclamations, of the United States were necessarily
involved in the decision, we have no jurisdiction. We have
often so decided. Bethel v. Dernaret,10 Wall. 537; Delmas v.
LTsurance Co., 14 id. 666; Tarver v. Keac; , 15 id. 67; Bockhold v. .Rockhold, supra, p. 129.
-Dismissedfor want of furisdition.
MIR. Jus.iOE Br.ADLEY dissenting.

I dissent from the judgment of the court in this case. When
a citizen of the United States claims exemption from the
ordinary obligations of a contract by reason of the existence of
a war between his government and that of the other parties to
it, the claim is made under the laws of the United States by
which trade and intercourse with the enemy are forbidden. It
is not by virtue of the State law that such intercourse is forbidden; for a separate State cannot wage war: that is the
prerogative of the general government. It is in accordance
with international law, it is true; but international law has the
force of law in our courts, because it is adopted and used by the
United States. It could have no force but for that, and may

288

NEW YORK LIFE INS.

Co. o.

HENDREN.

[Sup. Ct.

be modified as the government sees fit. Of course, the government would not attempt to modify it in matters affecting other
nations, except by treaty stipulations with them : if it did, it
would prepare itself to carry out its resolutions by military
force. But, in many things that prima facie belong to international law, the government will adopt its own regulations:
such as the extent to which intercourse shall be prohibited;
how far property of enemies shall be confiscated; what shall be
deemed contraband, &c. All this only shows that the laws
which the citizens of the United States are to obey in regard
to intercourse with a nation or people with which they are at
war are laws of the United States. These laws will be the
unwritten interndtional law, if nothing be adopted or announced to the contrary; or the express regulations of the
government, when it sees fit to make them. But in both cases
it is the law of the United States for the time being, whether
written or unwritten.
The case, then, of claiming dissolution or extinction of a
contract on the ground of the existence of a war, is precisely
a case within the meaning of the law which gives a writ of
error to this court from the judgment of a State court where
a right or immunity is claimed under the Constitution of the
United States, or under an authority exercised under the
United States. The power given by the Constitution to
Congress to declare war, and the authority of the general
government in carrying on the same, are the grounds on which
the exemption or immunity is claimed. It is under the authority of the government of the United States that the party
is not only shielded, but prevented, from the execution of his
contracts. If he performed them, it would be a violation of
his obligations to his government.
It is highly expedient that obligations and immunities of
this sort, arising from public law and the public relations of
the government, should be subject to uniform rules, and to the
final adjudication of the judicial department of the general
government.

