Oct. 1875.]

BRANCH ET AL. V. CITY OF CHARLESTON ET AL.

677

tent, to the present case. It appears from the record that the South-western Railroad Company, chartered in 1845, with an exemption from taxation beyond onehalf of one per cent of its annual net income, was united with the Muscogee
Railroad Company, a company entitled by its charter to a similar exemption.
Th union was effected under an act of the legislature, approved March 4, 1856,
the effect of which was to extinguish the Muscogee Company by its merger in the
South-western. No new corporation was created by the union of the two companies; but the powers of the South-western were enlarged, and an the rights,
privileges, and property of the Muscogee Railroad Company became the rights
and prop..rty of the South-western. The exemption from taxation, which both
the companies enjoyed under their original charters, cannot, therefore, be withdrawn by the legislature, and it is unaffected by the tax-laws of 1874.
The judgment of the Supreme Court is reversed, and the record is remitted, with instructionsto reverse the order of the Superior Court.

BRA1wCH ET AL. V. CITY OF CHIARLESTON ET AL.
1. In Tomlinson v. Branch, 15 Wall. 460, and City of Charleston v. Branch, id. 470,
this court held that the respective roads and property of the two companies,
which had become consolidated in the hands of the South Carolina Railroad
Company, retained their original status towards the public and the State the
same as if the consolidation had not taken place; that the entire line of
road between Branchville and Charleston was subject to taxation; and that
"primafacde the railroad terminus and dgp6t in Charleston and the property
accessory thereto belong to the South Carolina Canal and Railroad Company portion of the joint property."
2. The holding, that, if it could be fairly shown that any of that company's property in Charleston was acquired by the South Carolina Railroad Company
for the accommodation of the business belonging to its original roads, or
for the joint accommodation of the entire system of roads under its control,
such property would, pro tanto and in fair proportion, be exempt from taxation, was intended to meet the case of such property as the present company might have acquired in Charleston, either separately or in conjunction
with the old company, had no consolidation taken place, and had the line
between Branchville and Charleston used by both remained the property of
the old company.
S. In carrying out that principle, any repairs or improvements made on the old
line or the property of the old company would become a part thereof, and
be subject to taxation. An item, therefore, for replacing tracks and sidetracks within the city limits, as it fairly belongs to the old road, should have
been taxed in toto and not pro tanto.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of South Carolina.
In City of Charleston v. Branch, 15 Wall, 470, the decree of
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of South

678

BRANCH ET AL. V. CITY OF CHARLESTON ET AL.

[Sup. Ot.

Carolina was reversed, and the record remitted with instruc.
tions to proceed in conformity with the opinion of this court.
The Circuit Court ordered a special master to report: 1st, What property of the South Carolina Railroad Company
was acquired by it for the accommodation of the business of
its original roads, or for the joint accommodation of the entire
system of roads under its control; and of such property, how
much, and in fair proportion, should be exempt from taxation.
2d, What property of the South Carolina Railroad Company
has been acquired by it directly under its own charter, and for
purposes connected with its original road, that such property
may be decreed exempt from taxation.
3d, What property, if any, besides that not directed to be
apportioned, and that acquired by the South Carolina Railroad
Company under its own charter, and belonging to the South
Carolina Railroad Company, is exempt from taxation.
The master reported that: "The real estate within the present limits of the city of Charleston, now owned by the South Carolina Railroad Company, consists
of two separate and well-defined parcels of land. The first is a
long, narrow strip of land, lying between Meeting and King Streets,
and extending from Hudson Street to the northern boundary of
the city. Upon this, the d6p6ts, shops, yards, and railroad tracks
of the company are located. This property embraces :"1st, Various lots, purchased by the South Carolina Canal and
Railroad Company, prior to December, 1837, and vested in the
South Carolina Railroad Company by the act of 1843. This property cost $25,205, and this was probably its value when acquired
by the South Carolina Railroad Company. Its present assessed
value is $99,600. This increased value of $74,395 is entirely owing
to the workshops, d6p6ts, and other improvements which have been
put upon the land by the South Carolina Railroad Company since
1843, the value of all other lands in the city having, in the mean time,
greatly depreciated. According to the testimony of Mr. Magrath,
the president of the road, all the d6p6ts and other buildings existing
prior to that time have been entirely destroyed or removed, and
replaced by others of a far more costly and substantial character.
"2d, Various lots, purchased by the Louisville, Cincinnati, and
Charleston Railroad Company, between December, 1837, and Feb.
ruary, 1843. The lots are now valued in the aggregate at $2,300.

Oct. 1875.]

BRANCH ET AL. V. CITY OF CHARLESTON ET AL.

67M

"13d, Various lots, purchased by the South Carolina Railroad
Company since 1814, and now valued at $177,400.
"Prior to 1849 all of this land was without the corporate limits
of the city of Charleston. By the act passed on the nineteenth
day of December, 1849, the city limits were extended, and then
they took in, for the first time, the property of the South Carolina
Railroad Company.
"The second parcel of land belonging to the company lies in :he
eastern portion of the city, on Cooper River. It consists of various
lots, purchased by the South Carolina Railroad Company between
the years 1853 and 1870. Its present value is 894,900. The history of this purchase is as follows: The South Carolina Canal and
Railroad Company was not authorized to cross the limits of the
city. It had only power to come to the boundary line of the city,
and the city council were authorized to permit the extension of its
road through the public streets and lands of the city. (A. A. 1832.)
In 1840, the legislature authorized the South Carolina Railroad
Company to extend their road to some one or more of the wharves
in Charleston (A. A. 1840) ; and, in 1845, adopted a joint resolution,
declaring that they regarded it as highly desirable that the company should forthwith lay down a track to connect the d6pbt with
the wharves of Charleston in such manner as might afford free
access and competition to all.
"The evidence shows that the property in the eastern part of
the city was purchased to carry out that purpose, and that it is the
intention of the company to locate its dep~ts at that point as soon
as the means to make the connection can be raised. Though not in
actual use, there is no doubt that this property has been acquired
by the South Carolina Railroad Company for the joint accommodati m of the entire system of roads under its control. This is also
true of all the other property (with an inconsiderable exception)
now owned by the South Carolina Railroad Company, whether
purchased from the South Carolina Canal and Railroad Company
or other parties. The whole property which can, with any propriety, be said to have been purchased by the South Carolina
Railroad Company directly under its own charter,- for purposes connected exclusively with its original road, is the property purchased
by it under the name of the Louisville, Cincinnati, and Charleston
Railroad Company before 1843, and when the union of that company and the South Carolina Canal and Railroad Company had not
been thought of. And this property, even if it is properly to be
regarded as having been purchased exclusively for the South Carolina

680

BRANCH ET AL. V. CITY OF CHARLESTON ET AL.

[Sup. Ut.

Railroad, ceased to be so used after 1848, and from that time to the
present has been used. for the joint accommodation of the entire
system of roads.
"I am, therefore, of opinion that all the property set forth in the
schedule as having been owned by the South Carolina Canal and
Raiload Company, with the appendages and appurtenances thereof,
as they existed at the time of the transfer to the South Carolina
Railroad Company, are liable to taxation. I find that the value of
this property at that time was $25,205, its cost price, and that the
increased value given to it by the d6pbts, workshops, railroad tracks,
and other improvements since put upon it by the South Carolina
Railroad Company, is $74,395. These improvements come under
the category of property acquired by the South Carolina Railroad
Company under its own charter, and must be taxed accordingly.
That of the company's property in Charleston, acquired by the
South Carolina Railroad under its own charter, for the joint accommodation of the entire system of roads under its control, so
much as is properly apportionable and applicable to that part of the
line which extends from Branchville to Columbia and Camden, is
exempt from taxation. This applies to all property purchased by
the South Carolina Railroad Company since 1843. Its value, including the improvements put upon the land purchased from the
South Carolina Canal and Railroad Company, is $346,695.
"What proportion of this property should be exempt from taxation? The length of the road is the only mode which has been
suggested by either side of estimating this.
"The length of the road from Charleston to Hamburg is one hundred and thirty-six miles; from Branchville to Columbia, sixtyeight miles; and from Kingville to Camden, thirty-eight miles. If,
therefore, I am right in supposing that it was the intention of the
Supreme Court to exclude the South Carolina Railroad Company
from exemption from taxation, in reference to that portion of the
road acquired from the South Carolina Canal and Railroad Company, which extends from Charleston to Branchville, and which is
now used jointly by the two roads, 106-242 of this property is
exempt from taxation.
"The personal property owned by the company within the city
limits is appraised at $45,750. It was all acquired by the South
Carolina Railroad Company, under its own charter, for the joint
accommodation of all the roads under its control; and the same
'rule must be applied to it as has been adopted in reference to the
Ireal estate similarly acquired"

Oct. 1875.]

BRANCH ET AL. V. CITY OF CHARLESTON ET AL.

681

Exceptions were filed to the report of the master by both the
plaintiffs and defendants. A supplemental report was filed by
the master, which embraced the testimony of the president of
the South Carolina iRailroad Company, which was to the effect
that all the tracks below Mary Street must have been constructed by the South Carolina Railroad Company. All the
rails now on the track between Line Street and Mary Street
were laid by the South Carolina Railroad Company. The
cross-ties now on the track were also put there by the South
Carolina Railroad Company, as was every thing connected with
the track.
The following decree was thereupon passed by the court: "This case came up on the report of the special master, and the
exceptions thereto on the part of the plaintiffs and the defendants,
and the report thereon.
"The master reports that the various lots of land 'purchased by
the South Carolina Canal and Railroad Company, prior to December, 1837, and vested in the South Carolina Railroad Company by
the act of 1843, are taxable in toto only in the condition in which
they passed into the hands of the latter company, and that the
improvements which have been put upon the land by the South
Carolina Railroad Company since 1843 come under the category of
property acquired by the South Carolina Railroad Company under
its own charter, and so taxable only pro tanto. To this ruling the
city council excepts, and claims that all the improvements on the
land, in the shape .of d6p6ts, workshops, railroad tracks, &c., before
or since 1843, must be held taxable, inasmuch as said improvements
are superstructures and fixtures upon the said lands, and not separable therefrom. I am of opinion that so much of this exception as
refers to the ddp6ts, workshops, and other buildings, erected by the
South Carolina Railroad Company, on the lands acquired from the
South Carolina Canal and Railroad Company, is well taken, and so
much of the master's report as holds that these improvements,
valued in the report at $74,395, are taxable only pro tanto, is overruled. I am satisfied by the evidence that the tracks and side..
tracks within the city limits have all been replaced by the South
Carolina Railroad Company since 1843, and are used for the joint
accommodation of the united system of roads under its control,
and are, therefore, taxable only pro tanto, according to the standard reported by the master. The same rule is also to be applied to
the stationary engines, tools, machinery, &c., reported by the master as of the value of $20,750.

682

BRANCH ET AL. V. CITY OF CHARLESTON ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

"All other exceptions by plaintiffs and defendants are overruled,
and the report of the master, except as herein above modified, is
confirmed and made the decree of the court."
From which decree both pal-ties appealed to this court.
2Ufr. A. C. JlYagrath and Mr. James Conner for Branch et at.
Mkir. -). T. Corbin, contra.
IR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

These cases require but very little discussion, as they have
already been before the court and substantially settled in Tomlinson v. Branch and City of Charleston v. Branch, reported
in 15 Wall., pp. 460, 470. The result to which we came in
those cases was substantially this: that the respective roads
and the property of the two companies, which had become
consolidated in the hands of the South Carolina Railroad Company,- namely, that of the Canal and Railroad Company, and
that of the'Louisville and Charleston Railroad Company,- respectively retained their original status towards the public and
the State, the same as if they had not been consolidated under
a single proprietorship. As one of these roads has become taxable, and the other has not, the rights of the State and the
public growing out of this accidental diversity may sometimes
raise questions of some embarrassment.
This occasions the
only difficulty remaining to be solved in these cases. From
Branchville to Charleston there is but one road, and that is a
part of the original road of the Canal and Railroad Company,
used in common for the accommodation of both branches of
the property. The Louisville and Charleston Railroad Company had a chartered right to extend their road to Charleston,
but were met by the exclusive privileges of the elder company;
and hence the purchase of its property and the ultimate consolidation. Now, the fact that the elder company had this
exclusive privilege, shows that, even if the consolidation had not
taken place, the old road would have continued to do the work
of both companies between Branchville and Charleston, and
this part of the line would have been now subject to taxation.
It does not follow, therefore, that this part of the road, though
used for the accommodation of both branches, should be regarded as divisible into proportional parts, one subject to taxa-

Oct. 1875.]

BRANCH

ET AL. V. CITY OF CHARLESTON ET AL.

683

Lion, and the other not. It is to be regarded as simply the road
and property of the old company; in the hands of the new
company it is true, but subject to all the liabilities of its original
charter. Hence we held that the entire line of road between
Branchville and Charleston is subject to taxation; and that
pri'mafacie the railroad terminus and d6pt in Charleston and
the property accessory thereto belong to the elder portion of
the joint property. But inasmuch as'the charter right of the
present company extended to Charleston, we further held, that
if it could be fairly shown that any of the company's property
there was acquired by the present company for the accommodation of the business belonging to its original roads, or for the
joint accommodation of the entire system of roads under its
control, such property would, pro tanto and in fair proportion,
be exempt from taxation. This was intended to meet the case
of such property as the present company might have acquired
in Charleston, either separately or in conjunction with the old
company, had no consolidation taken place, and had the line
between Branchville and Charleston, used by both, remained
the property of the old company. Of course, in carrying out
this principle, any repairs or improvements made on the old
line or the property of the old company would become a part
thereof, and be subject to taxation. But newly acquired property might not be. This is the general principle. The method
of carrying it out in detail admits of some latitude for the exercise of deliberation and judgment. We have examined the
report of the special master to whom the matter was referred,
and the review of that report by the court below, and we think
that a result was reached corresponding in the main to the
principle which we have endeavored to establish. There is but
one item which we regard as calling for any interference with
the decree appealed from; that is the item of $25,000 for replacing the tr-acks and side-racks within the city limits, which
we think fairly belongs to the old road, and should have been
taxed in toto, and not pro tanto.
With this modification, decree affirmed.

