Oct. 1875.]

INTERM31INGLED COTTON CASES.

ized act of the township or county officers, it is clear that he
who could, before parting with his money, have easily ascertained that they were unauthorized, should lose, rather than the
property-holder, who might not know any thing of the matter,
or, if he did, had no power to prevent the wrong.

INTERAMINGLED

COTTON CASES.

UNITED STATES v. RAYIOND, ASSIGNEE; SAiE v. ICIDD
=ISTRATOR; SA-E v. BIRABSTOIN;
S.AME v. COWAN, AD L

SAME v. SPEARI;

SAME v. McLEAx; SAME

SAiE v. BATCHELOR;

SAME v. HAWKINS;

v. COOK;
SAME V.

GARDNER, ASSIGNEE; SAME v. BODENHE I, EXECUTRIX.
1. The Court of Claims found that cotton in large quantities captured from the
respective owners thereof in Mississippi by the military forces of the
United States was subsequently intermingled and stored in a common mass,
and then sent forward and sold by the treasury agents in the same intermingled condition, and the proceeds thereof paid into the treasury as a
common fund; that court further found as a fact that the cotton of each of
the claimants in these suits contributed to and formed a part of the mass
so intermingled and sold. Having ascertained the amount of that fund remaining in the treasury after deducting payments theretofore made to other
claimants, the number of bales sold to create the fund for which payment
had not already been made, and the number of bales contributed by each of
the plaintiffs to the common mass, -the court thereupon gave judgment in
favor of the plaintiff in each case for a sum which bore the same proportion to the whole fund still on hand that the number of his bales did to the
whole number then represented by the fund. Held, that the judgment was
proper.
2. While the Court of Claims cannot delegate its judicial powers, and must itself
hear and determine all causes which come before it for adjudication, no
reason exists why it may not use such machinery as courts of more general
jurisdiction are accustomed to employ under similar circumstances to aid in
their investigations.
8. Where that court in certain cases before it, in which complicated accounts and
facts were to be passed upon, referred them to a special commissioner to
state the accounts, marshal the assets, and adjust the losses, "so that equal
and exact justice should be done to all;" and upon consideration of his
report, and after due deliberation, approved it, - Held, that the judgments
as rendered are the result of the deliberation of the court, and not that of
the commissioner alone.

INTERMINGLED COTTON CASES.

[Sup. CL

APmLs from the Court of Claims.
Mr. Solicitor- General Phillips and Mr. Assistant Attorney.
General Edwin B. Smith for the appellants.
Jlfr. Joseph Casey and Hr. Henry S. Foot, contra.
MR. C IEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
The facts in these cases, as shown by the records and the
findings of the Court of Claims, are as follows: During the years 1863, 1864, and 1865, large quantities of
cotton were captured by the military forces of the United States
and taken from the owners in the State of Mississippi. The
identity of the several parcels so captured was destroyed, and
the property of each owner could not be traced. A very large
quantity was used by the army of the United States for defensive purposes in the vicinity of Vicksburg. Much of it was
stolen, destroyed, or otherwise lost. After the surrender of
Vicksburg, such as could be found and saved was collected at
that place and at Natchez, and afterwards intermingled and
stored in a common mass. Subsequently it was sent forward
and sold by the treasury agents in the same intermingled condition. The proceeds were paid into the treasury as a common
fund produced from the sale of this common mass of unidentified cotton, shipped and received under these circumstances.
The Court of Claims found as a fact that the cotton of each
of these several plaintiffs contributed to and formed part of
this mass so intermingled and sold. This finding was not based
upon evidence specifically tracing the property of each claimant, but upon the assumption that, under the circumstances
attending these collections, all cotton started from the place of
capture, on the way to Vicksburg or Natchez, in a manner that
would naturally carry it into the mass, must be presumed to
have gone there, unless it was shown to have been lost oi
shipped to some other point.
The court, upon this finding, ascertained the amount of the
iund remaining in the treasury, after deducting payments theretofore made to other claimants; the number of bales sold to
create the fund for which payment had not already been made,
and the number of bales contributed by each of these plaintiffs

Oct. 1875.]

INTERMINGLED

COTTON CASES.

to the common mass. It then gave judgment in favor of the
plaintiff in each case for a sum which bore the same proportion
to the whole fund still on hand that the number of his bales
did to the whole number then represented by the fund.
From these judgments the United States have appealed.
It is difficult to see how the United States can complain of
the judgments that have been rendered in these cases upon the
facts as found. The aggregate of the whole is no more than
the amount of money in the treasury to the credit of the fund,
and which, as we have often decided, is a trust for the benefit
of such as should establish their claim to it under the provisions of the Abandoned and Captured Property Act.
Each contributor to a common fund becomes interested in the
fund in proportion to his contribution. Each owner of property intermingled with other property of the same kind and
value, and stored in a common mass, becomes the owner as
tenant in common of an interest in the mass proportionate to
his contribution. If loss occurs while the common ownership
continues, each owner must sustain his proportionate share.
Here the property of different owners was intermingled in a
common mass. There was, therefore, an ownership in common. The Court of Claims, ascertaining that there was likely
to be a deficiency in the fund, very properly brought all the
several claimants together, and conducted the suits in such a
manner as to compel them to litigate with each other. The
judgments rendered represent the result of this litigation.
The several claimants are satisfied. The time has elapsed
within which new claims can be presented against the fund,
and, so far as we can discover, substantial justice has been
done. The United States have only been made liable for
cotton the proceeds of which have been clearly traced into
the treasury, and these judgments discharged them from further responsibility on that account.
A portion of the cotton was, after its capture, used for military purposes; but the United States are now charged only
with that which was afterwards sold under the provisions of the
Abandoned and Captured Property Act, the proceeds being in
the treasury, and constituting the fund now under consideration.
The Court of Claims cannot delegate its judicial powers. It

MORRISON ET AL. V. JACKSON.

[Sup. ot.

must itself hear and determine all causes which come before it
for adjudication; but we see no reason why it may not use such
machinery as courts of more general jurisdiction are accustomed
to employ under similar circumstances to aid in their investigations. In these cases, complicated accounts and complicated
facts were to be passed upon. The court referred them to a
'special commissioner to state the accounts, marshal the assets,
and adjust the losses, "so that equal and exact justice should
be done to all." The report of the commissioner, when made,
was considered by the court, and, after due deliberation, approved. The court determined the title of the several claimants, and their rights to the proceeds, upon evidence irrespective
of the commissioner's report, whenever requested to do so by
the claimant or the defendants. We see no error in this. The
judgments rendered are the result of the* deliberation of the
court, and not that of the commissioner alone.
Judgment in each case affirmed.
United States v. Smith, which was argued at the same time by .1r.
NOTE. -In
Solicitor-General Pillips and .11r. Assistant Attorney. General Edwin B. Snith for
the appellants, and by Mllr. Henr' S. Foot for the appellees, Ma. CHIEF JUSTIC
WAITE, delivering the opinion of the court, remarked, this case differs only from
those just decided, in the fact that it seeks to reach a different fund produced in
the same way. All the essential facts are the same.
Judgment affirmed upon the principles embraced in the opinionjust read.

MORRISON ET AL. V. JACKSON.
In 1802 a concession of six thousand arpents of land was made to S. by the acting Spanish governor of Upper Louisiana. An official survey, made by the
officer designated in the concession, and in part fulfilment thereof, gives the
boundaries of a tract situate on the river Des Pbres, about eight miles from
St. Louis, containing four thousand and two arpents. Another survey was
made by the same surveyor, under the same concession, of another tract, upon
the river Meramac, about twenty miles south-west of St. Louis, supposed to
contain fourteen hundred arpents. The claim of S. was rejected in 1811 by
the board of commissioners, but was confirmed by the recorder of land-titles
for the quantity contained in a league square (seven thousand and fifty-six
arpents), situate on the river Des Peres, and the decision of that officer, embraced in his report of February, 1816, whs confirmed by an act of Congress,
April 29, 1816. The surveyor of the United States for the Territory of Missouri surveyed for S., on the sixth and seventh days of May, 1818, a tract

