Oct. 1875.]

BOARD OF LIQUIDATION BT AL. V.

BOAR-D OF LIQuIDATiox

21CCOMB.

o81

:ET AL. v. MoCComB.

1. On the 24th of January, 1874, the legislature of Louisiana passed "the
Funding Act," which created a board of liquidation, consisting of the
governor and other State officers. Its principal stipulations, aside from
that which provided that, prior to the year 1914, the entire State debt
should never be increased beyond the sum of fifteen million dollars, are:
Fir.,t, that the "consolidated bonds," the issue of which is thereby authorized,
shall not exceed in amount fifteen million dollars, or so much thereof as
may be necessary for the purpose of consolidating and reducing the floating
and bonded debt of the State, amounting to twenty-five million dollars, and
consisting of valid outstanding bonds, and valid warrants of the auditor
theretofore issued ; secondly, that they shall only be used for exchange for
said debt at the rate of sixty cents in consolidated bonds for one dollar in
such bonds and warrants; thirdly, that a tax of five and a half mills on the
dollar of the assessed value of all the real and personal property of the
State shall be anually levied and collected for paying the interest and
principal of the bonds, and is set apart and appropriated for that purpose,
and no other, any surplus beyond paying interest to be used for the purchase and retirement of the bonds; foio-thly, that the power of the judiciary,
by means of inunida us, injunction, and criminal procedure, shall be exerted
to carry out the provisions of the act. An amendment of the Constitution
was subsequently adopted, which declared that the issue of the consolidated
bonds should create a valid contract between each holder thereof and the
State, which the latter should not impair; and directed that the tax should
be levied and collected without further legislation. Thereafter, on the 2d
of March, 1875, the legislature passed an act authorizing the board of liquidation to issue a portion of such consolidated bonds to the Louisiana Levee
Company, in liquidation of a debt claimed to be due it under a contract
made in lb71. This debt was not one of those to fund which the consolidated bonds had been issued; but the act, under which that contract was
made, provided and set apart certain taxes, to be levied and collected
throughout the State, to meet the paymenits which would accrue to the
company. The Circuit Court, upon a bill filed for that purpose by a
citizen of Delaware, who had surrendered his old bonds, and taken sixty
per cent of the amount in consolidated bonds, two millions of which
had then been issued, granted an injunction restraining the board from
using the consolidated bonds, and from issuing any other State bonds in
payment of said pretended debt. Held,'thatas the proposed funding of the
le ee debt at par in the consolidated bonds destroys all benefits anticipated
from the funding, on which benefits those who accepted its terms had a right
to rely, and makes an unjust discrimination between one class of creditors
an!_ another, the injunction, so far as it restrained the funding of said
debt in consolidated bonds issued, or to be issued, under the act of
Jan. 24, 1874, was properly granted.
2. Although a State, without its consent, cannot be sued by an individual, nor
can a court substitute its own discretion for that of executive officers, in
matters belonging to their proper jurisdiction, yet, when a plain official

532

BOARD OF LIQUIDATION ET AL. V. MCCOMB.

[SUp. Ct.

duty, requiring no exercise of discretion, is to be performed, and perform-

ance is refused, any person who will sustain personal injury by such
refusal may have a mandamus to compel its performance; and when such,
duty is threatened to be violated by some positive official act, any per-

son who will sustain personal injury thereby, for which adequate compensation cannot be had at law, may have an injunction to prevent it.
In such cases, the writs of mandamus and injunction are somewhat correlative to each other. In either case, if the officer plead the authority
of an unconstitutional law for the non-performance or violation of his
duty, it will not prevent the issuing of the writ. An unconstitutional
law will be treated by the courts as null and void.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
Mr. J. A. Campbell and Hr. J. Q. A. Fellows for the
appellants.
Mr. Thomas J. Semmes and Mr. Bobert Mott, contra.

iMRh. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The decree appealed from in this case was for a perpetual
injunction to restrain the Board of Liquidation of the State of
Louisiana from using the bonds known as the consolidated
bonds of the State, for the liquidation of a certain debt claimed
to be due from the State to the Louisiana Levee Company, and
from issuing any other State bonds in payment of said pretended debt.
The decree was made upon a bill filed by the appellee,
McComb, a citizen of Delaware, in which he alleges that he is
a holder of some of these consolidated bonds, and that the
employment of the boilds for the purpose proposed, namely,
the payment of the claim of the Levee Company, will be a vio-lation of the pledges given by the act creating the bonds, amd
will greatly depreciate their value. The bill sets out the circumstances of the case, and prays for an injunction. The
defendants demurred; and, the demurrer being overruled, they
declined to answer, and stood upon the supposed defects of the
plaintiff's case. Thereupon the decree appealed from was renEered; and the question is, whether the injunction ought to
have been decreed upon the statements made by the bill.
It appears that, by an act of the legislature of Louisiana,
passed the 24th of January, 1874, called the Funding Act, the
governor of the State, and other State officers, .were created a

Oct. 1875.]

Bo.ARD OF LIQUIDATION ET AL. v. MCCOMB.

533

board of liquidation, with power to issue bonds of the State to
an amount not to exceed $15,000,000, or so much thereof as
might be necessary for the purpose of consolidating and reducing the floating and bonded debt of the State, and to be called
"consolidated bonds of the State of Louisiana; " which bonds
were to bear date the 1st of January, 1874, and to be payable
in the year 1914, with interest at seven per cent per annum.
The act provided that these bonds should be exchanged by the
board for valid outstanding bonds of the State and valid warrants of the auditor issued prior to the passage of the act
(except warrants issued in payment of constitutional officers of
the State), at the rate of sixty cents in consolidated bonds for
one dollar in outstanding bonds and warrants; and that they
should be used for no other purpose. An annual tax of five
and a half mills on the dollar of the assessed value of all the
property of the State was levied, and directed to be collected,
to pay the interest on these bonds, and to purchase and retire
them. Other provisions were added, making it penal for the officers to divert the funds thus provided, or to obstruct the execution of the act, or to fail in the performance of any of the official
duties required by it; and it was declared that no court or
judge should have power to enjoin the payment of the bonds or
the collection of the tax provided therefor. The eleventh section further declared, that each provision of the act should be a
contract between the State and each and every holder of the
bonds issued under the act: and section thirteen provided that
the entire State debt, prior to the year 1914, should never be
increased beyond the sum of $15,000,000 authorized by the act 3
it being declared to be the intent and object thereof, and of the
exchanges to be effected under it, to reduce and restrict the
whole indebtedness of the State to a sum not exceeding
$15,000,000, and to agree with the holders of the consolidated
bonds that said indebtedness should not be increased beyond
that sum during said period. On the day of passing this act,
the general assembly passed another act, proposing to the people of the State an amendment to the constitution of the State,
which was adopted at the ensuing election; and provided that
the issue of the consolidated bonds authorized by the funding
act should create a valid contract between the State and each

584

B0ARD OF LQUIDATION ET AL. V. MCCoiMB.

[Sup. Ct.

holder thereof, which the State should not impair; prohibited
the issue of any injunction against the payment of the bonds
or levy of the tax; directed that the latter should be levied and
collected without further legislation; and declared that, whenever the debt of the State should be reduced below $25,000,000,
the constitutional limit should remain at the lowest point

reached, until it was reduced to $15,000,000, beyond which it
should not be increased.
The language of this clause is explained by the fact that, in
1870, a constitutional provision had been adopted limiting the
State debt to $25,000,000; and the further fact, stated in the
bill, that in 1874, when the funding act was passed, the outstanding bonds and valid warrants fundable under the act
equalled this amount; so that, at sixty cents on the dollar,
the debt to be funded would require the issue of the whole
$15,000,000 of consolidated bonds. Besides these classes of
debts, others to a considerable amount were then outstanding,
as will appear further on.
The board of liquidation created by the funding act entered
upon the performance of their duties, and, up to the commencement of proceedings in this case, they had issued a little over
$2,000,000 under the act.
On the 2d of March, 1875, the general assembly passed an
act authorizing the board to issue a portion of the above-mentioned consplidated bonds to the Louisiana Levee Company, in
liquidation of a debt claimed to be due it under a contract
made with the State in 1871, by which that company was to
reconstruct and keep in repair the levees on the Mississippi
River and its branches and outlets. The act of 1871, in and
by which this contract was made, had provided and set apart
certain taxes to be levied and collected throughout the State, to
meet the payments which would accrue to the company. But
it seems that these taxes had failed to reach their destination,
as a committee appointed by the act of 1875, to investigate the
subject, reported that there was $1,700,000 still due the company, which had accrued prior to October, 1873, and which the
act authorized the board of liquidation to pay in the said consolidated bonds. This debt was not one of the debts to fund
which the consolidated bonds had been created. It was not

Oct. 1875.]

Bo

IRD OF LIQUIDATION ET AL. V.

M

COMB.

535

represented by outstanding bonds of the State, nor by valid
warrants of the State auditor; and the complainant in this
case, in his bill, insists that it is not a debt of the State at all,
being provided for by the special taxes appropriated for its
payment. Another objection made to the proposal to fund it
is, that it is to be paid in full, whilst the funding act authorized the payment of only sixty cents on the dollar of the debts
to be replaced by the issue of the consolidated bonds, - the great
object of the act being to effect a reduction of the State debt
within manageable limits. It is insisted that the act of 1875,
authorizing the appropriation of consolidated bonds to the payment of the levee debt, defeats this scheme, and impairs the
validity of the contract made with those who have accepted the
bonds according to the terms of the Funding Act, and is therefore void. The plaintiff, being a holder of these bonds, filed his
bill for an injunction to prevent the consummation of the wrong
which he alleges will be committed by carrying out the act of
1875.
The decree of the court below is sought to be sustained on
several grounds. In the first place, the appellee contends, that,
in consequence of the provisions of the Funding Act, and the
constitutional amendment adopted in confirmation of it, the
State debt cannot be increased, whereas the assumption of
the levee debt (which, it is contended, is not a debt of the
State) will directly increase it. As a part of the same proposition, it is contended that the State has deprived itself of the
right to issue any bonds at all, except the consolidated bonds
created by the Funding Act, to be exchanged for outstanding
debts already existing.
We are not prepared to say that the legislature of a State
can bind itself, without the aid of a constitutional provision,
not to create a further debt, or not to issue any more bonds.
Such an engagement could hardly be enforced against an individual; and, when made on the part of a State, it involves, if
binding, a surrender of a prerogative which might seriously
affect the public safety. The right to procure the necessary
means of carrying on the government by taxation and loans is
essential to the political independence of every commonwealth.
By the internal constitution of a government, it is true its legis.

536

BOARD OF LIQUIDATION ET AL. V. MCCOMB.

[Sup. Ct.

lature may be temporarily restricted in this respect, as we have
seen is the case in Louisiana. But how, or at whose instance,
such restriction can be enforced, may sometimes be a question
of some difficulty. In a clear case, of course, an unconstitutional enactment will be treated as void, as against the rights
of an individual. But there are many constitutional provisions
mandatory upon the legislature which cannot be directly enforced,- the duty, for example, when creating a debt, to provide adequate ways and means for its payment. It affects the
public generally, but no individual in particular, in such manner as to give him a legal remedy. So the State debt may be
increased beyond the prescribed limit, without admitting of
judicial redress. It may arise indirectly in the accomplishment of public wdrks necessary to the general safety and welfare, in such a manner as to make it difficult to tell when the
line is over-passed, or whose claims arose after it had been
over-passed. Executory contracts for the preservation of the
public levees may be greatly swollen by work rendered necessary by the occurrence of unprecedented floods. Many such
eases, and analogous ones, might be readily supposed, in which
it would be utterly impossible to observe the prescribed limits
of State indebtedness. And as the amount of State debt is a
matter of eminently public concern, and the enactment of laws
on the subject cannot be controlled by the judiciary, it may
admit of doubt, whether, in any case, the courts, at the instance
of an individual citizen, even a tax-payer (who would be most
directly interested), would undertake to restrain the State officers in the execution of such laws. At all events, the case
should be a very clear one, to induce them to interpose by injunction or mandamus. But where a person is neither a citizen nor a tax-payer, but is a citizen of another State, and
presents himself simply in the character of a creditor of the
State, the courts would hardly be justified in interfering on his
behalf to prevent a supposed violation of the State constitution
by an increase of the State debt. His interest is too remote to
give him a standing in court for any such purpose.
But in the case before us, the assumption on which this part
of the case is based does not appear to be well founded. It
is not the creation of a new indebtedness which the board of

Oct. 1875.]

BOARD OF LIQUIDATION ET AL. V. MCCOmB.

587

liquidation propose. The amount payable to the levee company for its services is none the less a debt, because it is
already provided for by a special tax; and, so far as the State
is concerned, it is no more of a public burden when chargeable upon one fund than it is when bhargeable upon another.
If the general assembly, with the company's assent, sees fit to
alter the mode of payment, it is difficult to see who else Las a
right to complain, unless specially injured by the change. The
tax formerly appropriated to it will be liberated and made
available for other State purposes. The other creditors of the
State cannot possibly be injured, if nothing is appropriated to
the payment of the claim which has been pledged to them.
The plea of increase of State indebtedness, therefore, cannot
avail in this case; and so much of the decree as prohibits the
levee company from receiving any State bonds whatever in
liquidation of its claim, is untenable, and must be reversed.
The claim itself, for any thing that appears in the record to
the contrary, is a perfectly valid one against the State. It is
not even alleged to have arisen after the State indebtedness
had arrived to the constitutional limit of $25,000,000; nor is it
denied that it was founded on a good consideration.
The question, however, remains, whether, even supposing
the levee debt to be a valid one, it can be lawfully funded in
the consolidated bonds, in view of the other stipulations of the
Funding Act.
The principal stipulations of this act, aside from that respecting the increase of the State debt, are: -First,that the consoli
dated bonds shall not exceed in amount $15,000,000, or so
much thereof as may be necessary,- that is, necessary for the
purpose of consolidating and reducing the floating and bonded
debt of the State at sixty cents on the dollar; secondly, that
they shall only be used for exchange for said floating and
bonded debt, as designated in the act, which does not embrace
the levee debt in question; and that such exchange shall be at
the rate of sixty cents in consolidated bonds for one dollar in
outstanding bonds and warrants; thirdly, that a tax of five and
a half mills on the dollar of the assessed value of all the real
and personal property of the State shall be annually levied and
collected for paying the interest and principal of the bonds, and

538

BOARD OF LIQUIDATION ET AL. V. MCCOIMB.

[Sup. O

is set apart and appropriated for that purpose, and no other, any
surplus beyond paying interest to be used for the purchase and
retirement of the bonds ; fourthly, that the power of the judiciary, by means of mandamus, injunction, and criminal procedure, shall be exerted to carry out the provisions of the act.
The precise manner in which these stipulations will be
violated by the proposed funding of 81,700,000 of the levee
debt at par, as insisted by the plaintiff, is this: First, that
the entire issue of bonds will be increased by that amount,
thereby diminishing the relative security provided for each
bond.
Secondly, that the levee company will receive the
full amount of its debt, whilst the complainant, and others in
like case with him, have accepted sixty cents on the dollar for
their old bonds, on the faith that no one should receive any
more. T1drdly, that the benefits of the scheme propounded
by the Funding Act will be lost by such a violation of it, and
all the advantages anticipated by the complainant and others
in surrendering their original debts will fail.
In answer to the first of these supposed violations, -namely,
that the issue of consolidated bonds will be increased by the
amount of the levee debt, -it
may be said, that the amount
of the consolidated bonds is expressly limited to $15,000,000;
and there is no pretence that the board of liquidation intend
to issue more. The proposed appropriation might have the
effect of excluding from the benefit of the Funding Act
some of the outstanding obligations of the State originally
intended to be embraced within its provisions. But it will not
increase the total amount of the consolidated bonds. The
complainant can hardly contend that he has a right to prevent
the State from using the bonds for funding its other debts, if
those for which they were intended should not be surrendered.
It is a question of power. The Funding Act gives the board
of liquidation power to issue $15,000,000 of these bonds, or
so much thereof as may be necessary to fund the outstanding
floating and bonded debt; and it is admitted that the amount
of that debt is sufficient to absorb the whole $15,000,000.
He cannot say, "I am entitled to the chances of some of the
designated creditors not coming in." He cannot be injured, so
far as this objection goes, if the amount of bonds ultimately

Oct. 1875.]

BOARD OF LIQUIDATION ET AL. V.

MCCOMB.

539

issued does not exceed the limit of $15,000,000. It may
very well be that some of the creditors whose debts were
intended to be funded will refuse to come in and accept the
terms of the Funding Act. If that should be so, it might
greatly embarrass the financial affairs of the State to have to
appropriate the entire tax of five and a half mills to a mere
fraction of the debt it was intended to provide for, which
was $15,000,000. To tie the hands of the State under such
circumstances would be to give the complainant the advantage of a technicality, to the great injury of the State. It
would be adhering to form rather than to substance. The
complainant consented, -when he took his bonds, that there
might be $15,000,000 of them issued. He cannot justly complain if that amount is not exceeded, even though the debts
funded thereby are not precisely those specified in the act, provided the material terms of the act are complied with. In any
case, those that are not funded must be provided for in some
other way; and, unless some special reason exists why one
debt should be funded instead of another, the complainant cannot be injured. He has failed to show any such reason in his bill.
If, therefore, the substitution of one debt for another, in the
participation of the benefits of the Funding Act, were all that
is proposed to be done by the defendants, the complainant
would have great difficulty in maintaining a bill in equity for
the purpose of enjoining the officers of the State from carrying
out the law passed in 1875. But this is not all that they propose to do. The proposed funding of the levee debt in the
manner provided by that act would break up the whole scheme
of the Funding Act, and destroy all the benefits anticipated
from it,- benefits on which those who accepted its terms had
a right to rely.
It was the special object of that scheme, by providing extraordinary security and sanctions for the payment of the consolidated bonds, to induce the public creditors to reduce their
claims forty per cent, and exchange them for these new securities, and thus diminish the aggregate indebtedness of the
State $10,000,000. This result would enhance the general
credit of the State, and enable it to meet all its obligations and
engagements with more certainty and less liability to failure.

540

BOARD OF LIQUIDATION ET AL. V. MCCO3iB.

[Sup. Ct.

The complainant and others who have surrendered their old
bonds, and taken sixty per cent of the amount in the new bonds
in full satisfaction, did so on the faith that the scheme should
be carried into effect as a whole, and that all others taking the
benefit of the act should be subject to the same condition that
they were. It cannot be supposed that they would have made
the sacrifice they did, without relying, as they had a right to
do, on this essential feature of the scheme being rigidly carried
out. The proposal to fund the levee debt at par entirely interferes with its accomplishment, and makes an unjust discrimination 'between one class of creditors and another.
It is this aspect of the act of 1875, and the proposed proceedings under it, of which the petitioner has special reason to
complain, and which furnishes substantial ground for giving
him relief.
True, it may be objected even to this view, as to the former
one, that the bondholders of the State may refuse to come in
,and make the sacrifice required by the act; and, in such case,
the State ought not to be for ever precluded from making such
other disposition of the unissued consolidated bonds as may be
beneficial to it, without being injurious to those who have accepted such bonds. If such a state of things should arise,
after due time and opportunity shall have been given to test
the practicability of carrying out the scheme, it will, undoubtedly, furnish proper ground for modified legislation, having
due regard to the rights already vested. But the act in question was passed within three months after the adoption of the
constitutional amendment confirmatory of the Funding Act, and
before its practicability could possibly have been ascertained;
and no attempt was made by the act to reinstate the bondholders who had come in, to their former position, or to
return to them the forty per cent of their claims which they
had surrendered, or in any manner to obviate the inequality
and injustice to which they would be subjected by the change
of plan.
In our judgment, therefore, the court below was right in
granting the injunction as to the consolidated bonds, if the
defendants, occupying the official position they do, are amenable to such a process.

Oct. 1875.]

BOARD OF LIQUIDATION ET AL. V. McCoxB.

541

On this branch of the subject the numerous and well-considered cases heretofore decided by this court leave little to be
said. The objections to proceeding against State officers by
mandamus or injunction are: first, that it is, in effect, proceeding against the State itself; and, secondly, that it interferes
with the official discretion vested in the officers. It is conceded that neither of these things can be done. A State, without its consent, cannot be sued by an individual; and a court
cannot substitute its own discretion for that of executive officers
in matters belonging to the proper jurisdiction of the latter.
But it has been well settled, that, when a plain official duty, requiring no exercise of discretion, is to be performed, and performance is refused, any person who will sustain personal
injury by such refusal may have a mandamus to compel its performance; and when such duty is threatened to be violated by
some positive official act, any person who will sustain personal
injury thereby, for which adequate compensation cannot be had
at law, may have an injunction to prevent it. In such cases,
the writs of mandamus and injunction are somewhat correlative
to each other. In either case, if the officer plead the authority
of an unconstitutional law for the non-performance or violation
of his duty, it will not prevent the issuing of the writ. An unconstitutional law will be treated by the courts as null and
void. Osborn v. Bank of the United States, 9 Wheat. 859;
Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall. 220.
Decree affirmed, so far as it prohibits the funding of'the debt
due to the Louisiana Levee Company in the consolidated
bonds issued or to be issued under the Funding Act of Jan.
24, 1874; and reversed as to so much thereof as prohibits
the issue of any other bonds to said Louisiana Levee Company in liquidation of said debt.
MR. JUSTIOu Fin=
part in the decision.

did not sit in this case, and took no

