Oet. 1875.]

TYNG v. GRINNELL,

COLLECTOR.

valid, as based upon an equitable compromise of a long-pending
and doubtful question of title, and that it excludes the plaintiff
in this suit from any relief.
Judgment affirmed.

TYNG v. GRRKNELL, COLLECTOR.
I A special finding by the court upon issues of fact, where the parties or their
attorneys have duly filed a stipulation, waiving a jury, has the same effect
as a verdict, and is not subject to review by this court except as to the sufficiency of the facts found to support the judgment.

2. The question, whether an imported article is or is not known in commerce
by the word or terms used in the act imposing the duty, is one of fact

for the jury.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
Ir. C. Donoliue for the plaintiff in error.
1i1r. Assistant Attornel-General _Edwin B. Smith, contra.
delivered the opinion of the court.
Import duties of two cents and a half per pound were, by
the act of the 30th of June, 1864, levied on steam, gas, and
water tubes and flues; and it appears that the second section
of the act of 3d March, 1865, levied one cent per pound on
wrought-iron tubes, in addition to the duties heretofore imposed
by law. 13 Stat. 204, 498.
Certain wrought-iron articles of tubular form, intended to be
so used as to allow the passage through the same of the products of combustion, were imported into the port of New
York by the plaintiffs; and the record shows that the importers, on the 21st of January, 1870, made due entry of
the importation, and that they claimed that the articles imported and described in the entry were flues, and that they
were subje t only to the import duty of two cents and a half
po;r pound; and it appears that the defendant, as the collector
of the port, decided that the articles described in the entry
were wrought-iron tubes, and that they were dutiable as such
at three cents and a half per pound, under the second section
of the last-named act of Congress.
AIR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD

TYNG v. GRINNELL, COLLECTOR.

[Sup Ct.

Pursuant to the decision of the collector, the duties on the
importation were, on the 12th of February following, ascertained
and liquidated by the proper officers of the customs; and it
also appears that the plaintiffs, within ten days thereafter, gave
notice in writing to the collector that they were dissatisfied
with his decision fixing the rate of duty to which the articles
imported were subject. In the absence of any objection to the
form of the notice, it may be assumed that it was correct.
Seasonable appeal was also taken by the plaintiffs to the
Secretary of the Treasury; and the transcript shows that
the secretary, on the 9th of April in the same year, affiimed
the decision of the collector and the liquidation of the duties.
Apart from that, it also appears that the duties paid under
protest amount to the sum of 8178.36, and that the plaintiffs
instituted the present suit in the Superior Court of the State
to recover back the amount. Service was made ; and, the defendant having appeared, the action was, on his motion, removed into the Circuit Court of the United States. Both
parties appeared in the Circuit Court, and, having waived a
jury, proceeded to trial before the circuit judge, without a jury.
Judgment was rendered for the defendant, and the circuit judge
made a special finding of facts. Certain exceptions were filed
by the plaintiffs, and they sued out the present writ of error.
Two errors were assigned by the plaintiffs, as follows: (1.)
That the court below erred in finding and deciding that the
articles described in the entry were wrought-iron tubes, within
the meaning of the amendatory tariff act, and that they were
subject to the duty imposed of three and a half cents per
pound. (2.) That the court below erred in refusing to find
and decide that the articles imported were wrought-iron flues
as claimed by the plaintiffs, and that they were only subject
to a duty of two cents and a half per pound.
Whether the articles are wrought-iron tubes, as insisted b'y
the United States, or are wrought-iron flues, as contended by the
plaintiffs, was certainly a question of fact dependent upon
the"evidence; and, if so, it must be that it was a question to
be decided by the court, inasmuch as the parties had waived a
jury. Issues of fact pending in the circuit courts may be tried
and determined by the court, without the intervention of a

Oct. 1875.]

TYNG v. GRINNELL, COLLECTOR.

jury, whenever the parties or their attorneys file a stipulation
in writing with the clerk of the court waiving a jury. Such a
submission necessarily implies that the facts shall be found by
the court; and the act of Congress provides that the finding
may be general or special, and that it shall have the same
tiffect as the verdict of a jury in a case where no such waiver is
made.
E.cepLions may be taken to the rulings of the court made
in t7.e progress of tie trial, and, if duly taken at the time, the
rulings may be reviewed here, provided the questions are properly presented by a bill of exceptions. Where a jury is waived,
and the issues of fact are submitted to the court, the finding of
the court may be either general or special, as in cases where
the issues of fact are tried by a jury; but, where the finding is
general, the parties are concluded by the determination of the
court, subject to the right to bring error to review any rulings
of the court to which due exception was taken during the trial.
Whether the finding is general or special, the rulings of the
court during the progress of the trial, if duly excepted to at the
time and presented by a bill of exceptions, may be reviewed in
this court; and, in a case where the finding is special, the review, even without a bill of exceptions, may extend to the
question, whether the facts found are sufficient to support the
judgment. JMiller v. Ins. Co., 12 Wall. 295.
Tested by the preceding rules of decision, which are undeniably correct, it is clear that there are but two questions open
to review in the case before the court: first, whether the
tourt ruled correctly in admitting evidence as to the name by
which the article in question had been imported and sold in
this country; second, whether the facts found by the court
are sufficient to support the judgment.
1. Expert witnesses were examined on both sides, and the
defendant inquired of a manufacturer and an experienced iron
merchant as follows: "By what name has this article been
imported, and sold in this country?" to which the plaintiffs
objected. But the court overruled the objection, and the witness answered: "It has always been imported and so] I as an
iron boiler-tube by every importer in the country;" and the
transcript shows that the exception of the plaintiffs was duly
noted at the time.

.470

TYNG v. GRINNELL, COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Authorities which support the ruling of the court are very
numerous, and quite as decisive as they are numerous. Tariff
laws are passed to raise revenue; and, for that purpose,
substances are classed according to the general usage and
known denominations of trade. Whether a particular article
is designated by one name or another in the comtry of
its origin, or whether it is a simple or mixed substance, is
a matter of very little importance in the adjustment of our
revenue laws, as those who frame such laws are chiefly governed by the appellations which the articles bear in our own
markets and in our domestic and foreign trade. United States
v. Smith, 9 Wheat. 438.
Laws regulating "the payment of duties are for practical
application to commercial operations, and are to be understood
in a commercial sense; and this court, sixty years ago, decided
that Congress intended that they should be so administered and
understood. United States v. Goodale, 8 Pet. 279. Such laws,
say this court, are intended for practical use and application by
men engaged in commerce; and hence it has become a settled
rule, in the interpretation of statutes of the description, to construe the language adopted by the legislature, and particularly
in the denomination of articles, according to the commercial
understanding of the terms used. Elliott v. Swartwout, 10 Pet.
151.
Congress must be understood, says Taney, C. J., as describing the article upon which the duty is imposed, according to
the commercial understanding of the terms used in the law, in
our own markets; and the court held in that case that Congress,
in imposing the duty, must be considered as describing the
article according to the commercial understanding of the terms
used in the act of Congress when the law was passed imposing
the duty. Curtis v. 31artin, 3 How. 109.
Suffice it to say, without multiplying authorities, that the
rule of law is settled, that the question, whether an imported
article is or is not known in commerce by the word or terms used
in the act imposing the duty, is a question of fact for the jury,
and not a question of construction; and of course it must, in a
case like the present, be determined by the court as a question
of fact, the issues of fact, as well as of law, being submitted to
the court. Lawrence v. Allen, 7 How. 797

Oct. 1875.]

TYNG

v. GRINNELL, COLLECTOR.

Special findings under such a submission are no more subject
to review here than general findings, as the provision in respect
to both is that the finding of the court shall have the same
effect as the verdict of a jury. Appellate courts have no more
power to review the verdict of a jury where it is special than if
it be general; but they may inquire and determine whether
the special verdict is the proper basis of a judgment; and the
act of Congress provides that the review, if the finding is
special, may extend to the determination of the sufficiency of
the facts found to support the judgment.
Matters of fact in such cases are not reviewable here nder
any circumstances, as appears by all the cases decided by this
court, since the act was passed allowing parties to waive a jury,
and to submit the law and fact to the determination of the Circuit Court. Consequently, it is irregular to report the evidence
in the transcript, except so far as it may be necessary to explain
the legal questions reserved, as to the rulings of the court in
the progress of the trial; nor is either party entitled to a bill
of exceptions as to any special finding of the court, for the
plain reason that the special findings of the Circuit Court in
such a case are not the proper subject of exceptions nor of
review in this court.
2. Suppose that is so: then it follows that nothing remains
to be considered in the case except the question, whether the
facts are sufficient to support the judgment.
Facts found by the Circuit Court not being reviewable
here, it will be sufficient to refer to a few brief sentences in
the findings of the court, exhibited in the transcript, as follows: That the goods imported were, at the time of the passage of the tariff act, "known in commerce, and to dealers
therein, as and by the name of wrought-iron tubes," and that
the same were, and had been, at all times, imported by that
name; and that "the same continued to be so known, designated, imported, and dealt in, to and including the time" of
the enactment of the amendatory tariff act, and a long time
thereafter. . . . "That wrought-iron tubes are constructed for
various purposes, and are sometimes welded by joining the edges
of the sheet-iron curved for that purpose, and sometimes by lap.
ping the edges and welding them thus lapped."

TYNG v. GRINNELL, COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ot.

Tubes joined in the former mode are called "but-welded
wrought-iron tubes." When joined in the latter mode, "they
are called lap-welded wrought-iron tubes;" and it appears that
for uses as flues lap-welded tubes are alone suitable, and are
understood to be "intended whenever wrought-iron tubes are
designated as wrought-iron flues;" that wrought-iron flues is
a subordinate designation used to indicate the purpose for which
the tubes are to be employed, when ordered for such specifie
purpose; but that "they are included in the general designation of wrought-iron tubes," by which name alone, whether
but-welded or lap-welded, they were known until after the
passage of the amendatory tariff act.
Tubes lap-welded, it seems, when wanted for the described
special purpose, are sometimes designated as flues; but the
court finds that "the goods imported were wrought-iron tubes,
w ithin the true intent and meaning of the tariff act" in operation at the time of their importation; that the goods were properly classified and designated as such by the collector; and that
they were subject to the duty of three cents and a half per
pound, as adjudged by the proper officers of the customs.
Exceptions were filed by the plaintiffs to the finding, upon
the ground that it is not warranted by the evidence; but sufficient has already been remarked to show that the findings of
the Circuit Court, under such a submission, are not the subject
of exceptions nor of review in this court, when the cause is removed here by a writ of error.
Findings of the kind required may be general or special;
but, if special, the finding must not be a mere report of the evidence, leaving the conclusions of fact to be adjudged by the
appellate tribunal, as that course is forbidden by the repeated
decisions of this court. Instead of that, the requirement is
that the Circuit Court shall state the ultimate facts, or the
propositions of fact, which the evidence establishes, and not
the evidence from which those ultimate facts, or propositions
of fact, are derived. Such findings are intended by Congress as
a proper substitute for the special verdict of a jury; and it is
settled law, that it is of the very essence of a special verdict
that the jury shall find the facts on which the court is to pronounce the judgment, according to law; that, in order to enable

Oct. 1875.]

MILLER ET AL. V. DALE ET AL.

the Appellate Court to act upon a special verdict, the jury must
find the facts, and not merely state the evidence of facts; and
the rule is, that when the jury states the evidence merely, with-out stating the conclusions of the jury, a court of error cannot
act upon matters so found.
'orris v. Jackson, 9 Wall. 127;
Suydam v. Williamson, 20 How. 432.
Apply these principles to the case, and it is clear that the
findings are sufficient and conclusive, and that there is nothing
in the bill of exceptions or the reported evidence which can
benefit the plaintiffs.
Judgment afflrmed.

MIELER ET AL. v. DALE ET AL.
1. In an action of ejectment for land in California, where both parties asserr
title to the premises, - the plaintiff under a concession of the former government, confirmed by the tribunals of the United States, and an approved
survey under the act of Congress of June 14, 1860; and the defendant under
a patent of the United States issued upon a similar confirmed concession, the inquiry of the court must extend to the character of the original concessions to ascertain which of the two titles gave the better right to the
premises ; and, if these do not furnish the means for settling the controversy, reference must be had to the proceedings before the tribunals and
officers of the United States by which the claims of the parties were determined.
'. Where the original concessions in such cases were without specific boundaries,
being floating grants for quantity, the one first located by an approved survey appropriated the land embraced by the survey.
S. The object of the proceeding before the tribunals of the United States for the
approval of a survey of a confirmed claim to land in California under a
Mexican or Spanish grant, pursuant to the act of Congress of June 14,1860
(12 Stat. 34), was to insure conformity of the survey with the decree of
confirmation, and not to settle any question of title against other claimants.
The approval of the court established the fact, that the survey was in conformity with the decree of confirmation; or, if the decree was for quantity
only, that the survey was authorized by it, and is conclusive as to the location of the land against all floating grants not previously located.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of California.
Mr. S. 0. Houghton for the plaintiffs in error.
X,r. Jeremiah S. Black, contra.
MRt. JusTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action of ejectment for the possession of certain

