Oct.

1875.]

TowN OF CONCORD v. SAVINGs-BANIK.

62b

the firm being in bankruptcy and conceded to be hopelessly insolvent. The United States can, therefore, have no interest
with respect to the administration of its affairs. Any rights as
to the collaterals held by the United States, claimed by others,
must be settled outside of the present proceeding. They can-Decree affirmed.
not be adjudicated upon in this case.

TowN

OF CONCORD v. PORTSMOUTH SAVINGS BANx.

An act of the general assembly of the State of Illinois in force March 7, 1867,
authorized towns acting under the Township Organization Law of the State
- of which the town of Concord was one -to appropriate money to aid in
the construction of a certain railroad, to be paid to said company as soon as
its track should have been located and constructed through such towns. At
a popular election held in the town of Concord, on the 20th of November,
1869, the proposition to make such appropriation was submitted to the legal
voters thereof, as required by the act; and the town voted the appropriation,
provided the company would run its road through the town. On the 20th of
June, 1870, the company gave notice of its acceptance of the donation; and on
the 9th of October, 1871, town bonds representing such donation were issaed
by the supervisor and town-clerk. Hdd, 1. That undir the statute the
town could not make an appropriation or donation in aid of the company
until its road was located and constructed through the town. 2. That the
constitution of the State, which came into operation July 2, 1870. annulled.
the power of any city, town, or township, to make donations or loan its credit
to a railroad company, and, after that date, rendered the act of 1867 ineffective. 3. As the town had no authority to make a contract to give, and
the acceptance by the company was an undertaking to do nothing which it
was not bound to do, before the authority of the town to make or to engage to,
make a donation came into existence, no valid contract arose from such offer
and acceptance. 4. That the bonds so issued are void.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
This was an action of assumpsit to recover the amount of
the coupons attached to certain bonds issued by the supervisor
and town-clerk of the town of Concord, in the State of Illinois.
The act of the general assembly of the State of Illinois,
pursuant to which the bonds recite that they were issued,
provides, " That all incorporated cities and towns acting under the township organization law, which lie wholly or partly within twenty
vol,. i1

40

TowN op CONCORD V. SAVINGS-BAK.

[Sup. C.

miles of the east line of this State, and also between the city of
Chicago and the southern boundary of Lawrence County, be and
the same are hereby severally authorized to appropriate such sum
of money as they may deem proper to the Chicago, Danville, and
Vincennes Railroad Company, to aid in the construction of the
road of said company, to be paid to said company as soon as the
track of said road shall have been located and constructed through
said city, town, or township, respectively: -Provided,however, that
the proposition to appropriate moneys to said company shall be
first submitted to a vote of the legal voters of said respective townships, towns, or cities, at a regular, annual, or special meeting, by
giving at least ten days' notice thereof ; and a vote shall be taken
thereon by ballot at the usual place of election; and if the majority
of the votes cast shall be in favor of the appropriation, then the
same sball be made, otherwise not.'
" SECT. 2. The authorities of said townships, towns, or cities, respectively, are hereby authorized and required to levy and collect
a tax, and make such provisions as may be necessary for the prompt
payment of the appropriation under the provisions of this law."
Pursuant to a notice for that purpose, an election was held
on Nov. 20, 1869, and the legal voters of the town of Concord
voted to levy a tax on the taxable property of said town,
amounting in the aggregate in two yeaxs -to
be levied and
collected as other taxes-to the sum of $25,000, to be donated
to said railroad company, provided said company run the
said railroad through the village of Concord, or on its boundaries, and to and through the town of Sheldon, in Sheldon
township.
On the twentieth day of June, 1870, the railroad company
filed in the town-clerk's office a written notice of the acceptance of the donation, the same being addressed to the supervisor and town-clerk.
The Constitution of Illinois, which took effect July 2, 1870,
ordains as follows : "No county, city, town, township, or other municipality, shall
ever become subscriber to the capital stock of any railroad or
private corporation, or make donation to, or loan its credit m aid
of, such corporation: Provided,however, that the adoption of this
article shall not be construed as affecting the right of any such
municipality to make such subscriptions, where the same have been

Oct. 1875.]

TowN

OF CONCORD V.

SAVINGS-BANK.

authorized, under existing laws, by a vote of the people of such
municipalities prior to such adoption."
On the ninth day of October, 1871, the supervisor and townclerk executed bonds of the following tenor: Sgtate of illinois:[$1,000.
"No.
.]
COxcORD TowNsHIP RAmRoAD Bo-D.
"Know all men by these presents, That the township of Concord,
in the county of Iroquois and State of Illinois, acknowledges itself
to owe and be indebted in the sum of $1,000, lawful money of the
United States of America, which sum of money the said township
of Concord promises to pay to the bearer at the Mechanics' National
Bank, Chicago, on the first day of June, in the year 1881, with
interest thereon at the rate of ten per centum per annum, which
interest shall be payable yearly on the first day of June in each
year, at the Mechanics' National Bank of the city of Chicago, upon
presentation and delivery of the warrants or coupons severally
hereto annexed, until the payment of the said principal sum.
"This bond is issued under and by virtue of a law of the State
of Illinois, to authorize cities, towns, or townships lying within
certain limits to appropriate moneys and levy a tax to aid the construction of the Chicago, Danville, and Vincennes Railroad, and the
faith of said township of Concord is hereby pledged for the payment of said principal sum and interest as aforesaid2'
"UNITED STATES OF AmERICA,

And they were delivered to the company Oct. 17, 1871.
The case was tried below without the intervention of a jury.
The court found for the plaintiff, and gave judgment accordingly, whereupon the defendant brought the case here.
Argued by 31r. George Hf. Williams for the plaintiff in error,
and submitted on printed briefs by 1a1r. Isaac G. WMlson and
01r. 8Sainford B. Perry for the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTI0E STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The bonds to which the coupons in suit were attached purport to have been made under legislative authority given to
the town officers by the act of March 7, 1867. Their recitals
make direct reference to that act by its title, which is set forth
at length, with an averment that they were issued under and
The primary question, therefore, is, whether
by virtue of it.
that statute did in reality give to .the supervisor and clerk of

TowN OF CONCORD v. SAVINGS-BANK.

[Sup. OC

the. town power to execute and deliver town bonds on the
ninth day of October, 1871 (when the bonds were in fact
issued), as an appropriation or donation to the railroad company. The first and second sections are the only ones to
which reference need be made. By the first, it was enacted
that certain incorporated towns and cities, and towns acting
under the township organization law (among which it is conceded the town of Concord was one), should be apd were
severally authorized to appropriate such sum of money as they
might deem proper, to the Chicago, Danville, and Vincennes
Railroad Company, to aid in the construction of the road of
said company; to be paid to the company as soon as the track
of said road should have been located and constructed through
said city, town, or township respectively. To this was attached
the following proviso: "Provided, however, that the proposition to appropriate moneys
to said company shall be first submitted to a vote of the legal
voters of said respective townships, towns, or cities, at a regular
annual or special meeting, by giving at least ten days' notice
thereof; and a vote shall be taken thereon by ballot at the usual
place of election; and if the majority of votes cast shall be in favor
of the appropriation then the same shall be made, otherwise not."
The second section empowered and required the authorities
of said municipalities to levy and collect a tax, and make such
provisions as might be necessary for the prompt payment of
the appropriation under the provisions of the law.
The authority given to the town of Concord by this statute
was not to subscribe to the stock of the railroad company, but
to make an appropriation or donation in aid of the construction
of the road; and even that donation was not permitted to be
made until after the completion of the location and construction
of the road through the town. It has been strenuously insisted
during the argument that the act conferred no power upon the
town to make an appropriation or donation by the issuing of
bonds or certificates of indebtedness. It is said that other provision was made for the donation, - provision by the levy and collection of a tax. We do not care, however, to discuss this matter,
for in the view which we have of the case it is quite immaterial.

Oct. 1875.]

TowN oF CONCORD v. SAVINGS-BANK.

A popular election having been held, and a majority of votes
cast at the election having been in favor of the appropriation,
it may be conceded that payment of the appropriation could
lawfully have been made in town bonds instead of money, if
the donation itself was authorized. The real question is,
whetier the authority to make the donation existed when it
was made. The act of the legislature of 1867 may have been
authority for a donation at any time prior to July 2, 1870, and
no authority at all afterwards. And such, we think, it was.
The popular vote in favor of an appropriation was on the 20th
of November, 1869; but it was not itself an appropriation or
donation, and the town was .not authorized to make it until the
railroad was located and constructed through the town. Before
that time, and before any attempt at a donation or appropriation
was made, the authority to make it was withdrawn. If no effect
be attributed to the rescinding vote of June 30, 1870, the new
constitution of the State, which came into operation on the 2d
of July, 1870, annulled, we think, the power of municipalities
to make donations to railroad companies. It ordained that,
"No city, town, township, or other municipality, shall ever
become subscribers to the capital stock of any railroad or private
corporation, or make donation to, or loan its credit in aid of, such
corporation: Provded, however, that the adoption of this article
shall not be construed as affecting the right of any such municip~ality to make such subscriptions, where the same have been
authorized under existing laws, by a vote of the people of such
municipalities prior to such adoption."
This article, in our opinion, makes a clear distinction between
subscriptions to the capital stock of a railroad company, or a
private corporation, and donations or loans of credit to such
co)-porations. The latter are prohibited under all circumstances.
The former may still be made, if they have been authorized by
a vote of the people prior to the adoption of the constitution.
A very able and ingenious argument has been submitted to us,
aiming to show that in fact the article makes no such distinction, and that donations and subscriptions are put upon the
same footing; but we cannot yield to it our assent. No matter
-what may have been the intention of the mover of the proviso,
the intent of the framers of the article, and of the people

680

TowN OF CONCORD V. SAVINGS-BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

adopting it, must be gathered from the article itself. There
was reason for the distinction. For subscriptions to capital
stock the municipality got something for which there was at
least a possibility of return, more than was possible in the case
of donation. In both cases public convenience may have been
contemplated: but in the one, more than that may have been
contemplated and expected; and this may have been the prevailing motive for assent to a subscription. It cannot be
doubted that a subscription would have been voted in many
cases where a donation, or a loan of credit, would not have
been.
If, then, the State constitution prohibited donations to railroad companies, made after its adoption, the act of the legislature of 1867 became ineffective after July 2, 1870. After that
date the power no longer existed in the municipality.
We do not say that the new constitution could annul or impair any contract that was made between the town and the
railroad company, during the time in which the town had authority to make it. A constitution can no more impair the
obligation of a contract than ordinary legislation can. But
the record exhibits no contract made before July 2, 1870. The
town voted on the twentieth day of November, 1869, that it
would make a donation, provided the company would run its
railroad through the town. On the 20th of June, 1870, the
company gave notice of its acceptance of the donation. But
the town was not empowered to make the donation until the
road was located and constructed through the town. It had no
authority to make a contract to give. And the acceptance was
an undertaking to do nothing -which the company was not
bound to do before the authority of the town to make a donation, or to engage to make a donation, came into existence.
What is called the acceptance of the railroad company cannot
be construed as an engagement to locate and build the railroad
through the town. It amounted to no more than saying, "If
we build our road through your town, we will receive your
gift." There was, therefore, no consideration for the town's
promise to give, even if the popular vote can be considered a
promise. There was no contract to be impaired. A contract
should be clearly proved before it invokes the protection of the
Federal Constitution.

Oct. 1875.]

COUNTY OF MOULTRIE V. SAVINGS-BANK.

631

We conclude, then, that, at the time the donation was made,
there was no authority in the municipality to make a donation
to the railroad company, and consequently no authority to issue
the bonds. It follows that the bonds and coupons are -void.
Judgment reversed and new trial ordered.

COUNTY

OF

MOULTRIE

V.

ROCK

IGHTA

TFN-CFNT

SAVINGS-BANK.
1. An act of the general assembly of the State of Illinois, approved March 26,
1869, authorized the board of supervisors of Moultrie County to subscribe
to the stock of the Decatur, Sullivan. and Mattoon Railroad Company, to
an amount not exceeding .580,000, and to issue bonds therefor when the
road should be opened for traffic between the city of Decatur and the town of
Sullivan. In December, 1869, the board of supervisors ordered that a subscription to the stock of that company, in the sum of $80,000, be made by the
county; and that, in payment therefor, bonds payable to said company should
be issued and delivered to it, when the road should be so open for traffic.
No subscription was actually made on the books of the company; but its
president and clerk entered of record the resolution of the board of supervisors, and the company, by a contract made April 15, 1870, appropriated
the bonds that would be received in payment of that subscription. The
bonds were delivered to the company and the road was so open to traffic
early in 1873. By the constitution of the State, which took effect July 2,
1870, counties were prohibited from subscribing to the capital stock of any
railroad or private corporation, or from making donations to or loaning their
credit in aid of such corporations. Held, that whether the action of the
board in December, 1869, be in substance and legal effect a subscription, or
only an undertaking to subscribe which was accepted by the company, a
valid contract existed between the county and the company, which, when
the new constitution took effect, authorized the subsequent delivery of the
bonds.
2. The board of supervisors, acting under the authority of the act in question,
could bind the county by a resolution, which, in favor of private persons
interested therein, might, if so intended, operate as a contract; and the obligation thereby assumed would continue in force after July 2, 1870, although
the power to eater into such a contract was, after that date, withdrawn.
3. The holder of the bonds purchased them before their maturity, and without
notice of any defence. They recite that they are issued by the county
in pursuance of the subscription of the capital stock of said company, made
by the board of supervisors of the county, December, 1869, in conformity to
the provisions of an act of the general assembly above mentioned. The
purchaser was thus assured that the subscription was made when they had
authority to make it; and it would be tolerating a fraud to permit the county,
when called upon for payment, to set up that it was not made until after
July 2, 1870, when their authority had expired.

