OASES ADIUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
FAIRMONT CREAMERY COMPANY v.
MINNESOTA.
'

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.

No. 725. Argued February 23, 1927.-Decided April 11, 1927.
1. A state law (G. S. Minn., ยง 3907) punishing anyone engaged in
the business of buying milk, cream, or butter fat for manufacture
or sale, who discriminates between different localities of the State
by buying such commodities in one locality at a higher price than
he pays for the same commodity in another locality, allowance
being made for any difference in actual cost of transportation from
locality of purchase to that of manufacture or sale-infringes the
liberty of contract guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.
P. 8.
2. Such a sweeping inhibition can not be sustained as a means of
preventing some buyers from attempts to destroy competition or
secure a monopoly in the business by paying excessive prices.
P. 9.
3. It is the duty of the Court to inquire into the real effect of any
statute duly challenged because of interference with freedom of
contract, and to declare it invalid when it has no substantial
relation to any evil which the State has power to suppress but is
a clear infringement of private rights. P. 11.
168 Minn. 381, reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Minnesota sustaining a conviction of the Creainery Company
of "unfair discrimination" in purchasing butter fat for
5-.514-28----1

1

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

274 U. S.

manufacture and sale. See also, 162 Minn. 146, and 168
Minn. 378.
Mr. Leonard A. Flansburg, with whom Messrs. E. J.
Hainer, George A. Lee, and M. S. Hartman were on the
brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Charles E. Phillips,Assistant Attorney General of
Minnesota, with whom Mr. Clifford L. Hilton, Attorney
General, was on the brief, for defendant in error.
The federal Constitution does not guarantee to the individual absolute freedom of contract. Miller v. Wilson,
236 U. S. 373; Schmidingerv. Chicago, 226 U. S. 578; Chi-,
cago Co. v. McGuire, 219 U. S. 549; Williams v. Evans,
139 Minn. 32. Statutes making it an offense to discriminate in prices between different localities, when "intent" or "purpose" to create a monopoly or to destroy
competition is made an ingredient thereof, have been uniformly sustained. Central Lumber Co. v. South Dakota,
226 U. S. 157; Stat6 v. Drayton, 82 Neb. 254; State v.
Bridgeman, etc. Co., 117 Minn. 186; State v. Standard
Oil Co., 111 Minn. 8 5 s State v. Fairmont Creamery, 153
Ia. 702; State v. Rocky Mountain Elev. Co., 52 Mont.
487. Such a statute was enacted in Minnesota in 1909
(c. 468, Ls. 1909), and remained in force until the enactment of c. 120, Ls. 1923, here involved. Its validity was
sustained in State v. Bridgeman, etc., Co., supra. In sustaining it the c6urt found existing evils justifying
this exercise of police power. In 1923 the legislature
amended the law by striking therefrom the ingredient of
intent or motive, thus making it an offense to discriminate
in prices between localities, except as affected by the cost
of transportation, whether done for the purpose of creating a monopoly or destroying competition or not (chapter
120). It was designed to meet and correct the same evils
as the old statute. It must be assumed that in the judg-

FAIRMONT CO. v. MINNESOTA.
I

Opinion of the Court.

ment of the legislature the remedy prescribed by the old
law was ineffectual to accomplish the desired results. The
State, having found the old law ineffective to prevent the
evil because of the almost impossibility of proving by
competent evidence that price discrimination between
localities was for the purpose of creating a monopoly,
determined in its legislative judgment to prohibit discrimination between localities without regard to intent or
motive. A particular transaction, though lawful in and
of itself, and although there inheres in it no purpose of
creating a monopoly or destroying a competitor, may
be prohibited if it be reasonably necessary so to do to suppress a substantial evil within the police power of a State
to correct. Booth v. Illinois, 184 U. S.425; Otis v. Parker,
187 U. S.606; PurityExtract .lo.v. Lynch, 226 U. S. 192;
Geer v. Connecticut, 161 U. S. 519; New York v. Hesterberg, 211 U. S.31; State v. Shattuck, 96 Minn. 45; Merrick
v. Halsey Co., 242 U. S.568; Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis
Co., 240 U. S. 342; Frisbiev. United States, 157 U. S. 160.
Mr. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Supreme Court of Minnesota sustained the conviction of plaintiff in error, a corporation of that State
charged with violating ยง 1, Chapter 305, Laws 1921, as
amended by Chapter 120, Laws 1923 (Minn. G. S. ยง 3907),
which follows"Any person, firm, co-partnership or corporation engaged in the business of buying milk, cream or butterfat
for manufacture or for sale of such milk, cream or butterfat, who shall discriminate between different sections,
localities, communities or cities of this State, by purchasing such commodity at a higher price or rate in one locality than is paid for the same commodity by said person,

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

firm, co-partnership or corporation in another locality,
after making due allowance for the difference, if any, in
the actual cost of transportation from the locality of purchase to the locality of manufacture or locality of sale of
such milk, cream or butterfat, shall be deemed guilty of
unfair discrimination, and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be punished by a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars,
or by imprisonment in the county jail for not exceeding
90 days."
Chapter 468, Laws 1909, prohibited discrimination in
prices between localities "with the intention of creating
a monopoly or destroying the business of a competitor."
The Act of 1921 forbade such discrimination with "the
purpose of creating a monopoly, or to restrain trade, or
to prevent or limit competition, or to destroy the business
of a competitor." The Act of 1923, supra, eliminated
purpose as an element of the offense.
The cause was begun in Cottonwood County by a complaint which allegedThat the Fairmont Creamery Company on June 11,
1923, at the Village of Bingham Lake, Cottonwood
County, committed the crime of unfair discrimination in
the purchase of butter fat for manufacture and sale, in
the manner following: Said company, while engaged in
the business of buying milk, cream and butter fat for
manufacture and sale and while maintaining regularlyestablished stations for purchases at Madelia, Mountain
Lake, Bingham Lake and other villages for shipment to
Sioux City, Iowa, there to be manufactured and sold, did
wrongfully, unlawfully and unfairly discriminate between
said localities by paying a higher price for butter fat at
some stations than at others, after due allowance for transportation costs. And, more particularly, on June 11,
1923, the company purchased cream at Madelia for thirtyeight cents per pound, and on the same day purchased
cream of like quality at Mountain Lake and Bingham

FAIRMONT CO. v. MINNESOTA.
I

Opinion of the Court.

Lake for thirty-five cents per pound, all being intended
for transportation to Sioux City, Iowa, there to be manufactured and sold. On that day the cost of transportation
from Madelia to Sioux City was higher than from the
other places.
Bingham Lake, Mountain Lake (in Cottonwood
County) and Madelia (in Watonwan) are villages of
Southern Minnesota, about 120, 130, and 160 miles,
respectively, northeast of Sioux City, and are connected
therewith by a single direct railroad line.
At the trial the accused company offered testimony to
show: "That during the last nine years, the price paid
for butter fat in the southern half of Minnesota, at the
different towns, has varied in each town; that the variation has been from one cent to eight cents; that such
price is exclusive of transportation charges; that such
variation is the normal condition of the market in the
sale of cream and butter fat, and is the result entirely of
competitive conditions; that in certain localities there are
many more competitors than there are in others; that the
quality. of cream differs in different localities; that the
equipment and efficiency of creameries in the various
localities differ, and that each of these things enters into
the price that is paid for the butter fat in the particular
locality where the sale is made, and that this variation in
price, in each town, in the southern half of Minnesota,
existed on the eleventh day of June, 1923, and that such
variation is constant, and has existed for nine years previous to that time, and that these variations in price are
due entirely to the economic conditions in each locality,
and to competition."
The trial court excluded this evidence as immaterial,
and the Supreme Court approved. We may, therefore,
treat the facts stated as though established and held to
have no bearing on the question of guilt or the validity
of the enactment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

Defense was made on several grounds--That the venue
was improperly laid in Cottonwood County; that the statute conflicted with the federal Constitution by denying
equal protection of the laws and liberty to contract; and
that it unduly interfered with interstate commerce.
The cause has been before the Supreme Court of Minnesota three times. 162 Minn. 146; 168 Minn. 378 (Aug.
27, 1926); 168 Minn. 381 (Oct. 27, 1926). Two opinions
discuss the merits of the controversy; the last affirmed
conviction upon the earlier ones.
Replying to the objection that venue was improperly
laid in Cottonwood Cointy, locality of the lower price,
the Supreme Court said: "The gist of the offense is the
discrimination between different localities by paying different prices in different localities after making due allowance for the cost of transportation from the point of purchase to the point of sale or manufacture. The statute
chooses to define the offense by referring to a higher price
at one point than at another. It might define it by
referring to the payment of a lower price at one point
than another. The meaning would be the same:
The offending fact is that there are sales at different
prices and thereby discrimination."
It next held that the statute did not deny equal protection to those engaged in buying cream for manufacture
or sale since they properly might be treated as a distinct
class and subjected to peculiar regulations.
Concerning the claim that the statute undertakes to
deprive plaintiff in error of property and liberty of contract without due process of law, contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment, the court said"There have developed in the State a large number of
so-called centralized creameries which buy in different
localities. We take it that the defendant is one. In addition there are coiperative creameries and independent
creameries not usually maintaining other buying stations,

FAIRMONT CO. v. MINNESOTA.

I

Opinion of the Court.

though some may. There is in the law nothing to prevent them doing so.

We do not understand that the buy-

ing stations are commonly localized plants.

[Counsel for

the State say that creamery statistics for 1923 show then
operating in the State six hundred and twenty-eight cobperative creameries, one hundred and twenty-seven independent or individual ones, and forty-eight 'centralizers.']
Often the buyer represents the creamery as an adjunct of
his other business. Often his compensation is through a
commission. He may have a place to receive the product
or it may be delivered directly to the railroad station. A
centralized creamery, supplied with ample capital and
facilities, has the ability and meets the temptation to
destroy competition at a buying station by overbidding,
absorbing the resultant losses, if any, through the profits
of its general business and, when competition is ended,
to buy on a noncompetitive basis. If it does all this
successfully, it has a monopoly, and may or may not treat
producers justly. The statute seeks to prevent the destruction of cbmpetition by forbidding overbidding unless
the dealer makes prices at other buying points correspond
after proper allowances for the cost of transportation.
If the statute is obeyed destroying competition is expensive. The statute limits the right of the creamery to
contract at its buying points on a basis satisfactory to
itself and its patrons. The State must concede this, and
it does.
"The dairy industry, measured in money, is a large,
perhaps just now the largest, productive industry of the
State. . . It is not surprising that in the marketing
of so great a product, coming from so wide an area of
production, under conditions such as obtain, those engaged in the industry claim abuses for which they seek
legislative remedy. The exercise of the police power is
not confined to measures having in view health or morals
of the community. The welfare of a great industry and
the people engaged in it may be guarded."

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

To the contention that the statute unduly burdens
interstate commerce, the court replied: "A statute may
indirectly or incidentally affect interstate commerce, as
local police measures frequently do, without offending the
commerce clause. . . . The defendant is a Minnesota
corporation. The product which it purchased might have
gone as well to a point in Minnesota for manufacture or
resale. It so happened that it went to Iowa. The statute is not unconstitutional as an interference with interstate commerce."
Counsel for the State concede that the statute requires
buyers to pay the same price for like commodities at all
points of purchase, after proper allowances for transportation. Also, that it inhibits plaintiff in error from meeting local competition by increasing the price only at that
place; also, from varying purchase prices to meet normal
trade conditions.
They further admit that the State may not arbitrarily
interfere with the right of one conducting a lawful business to contract at will; but they say that the federal Constitution does not guarantee absolute freedom of contract
and the State may prohibit transactions not in themselves
objectionable when within reason this may seem necessary
in order to suppress substantial evil.
It seems plain enough that the real evil supposed to
threaten the cream business was payment of excessive
prices by powerful buyers for the purpose of destroying
competition. To prevent this the statute undertook to
require every buyer to adhere to a uniform price fixed by
a single transaction.
As the inhibition of the statute applies irrespective of
motive, we have an obvious attempt to destroy plaintiff
in error's liberty to enter into normal contracts long
regarded not only as essential to the freedom of trade and
commerce but also as beneficial to the public. Buyers in
competitive markets must accommodate their bids to

FAIRMONT CO. v. MINNESOTA.

9

Opinion of the Court.

prices offered by others, and the payment of different
prices at different places is the ordinary consequent. Enforcement of the statute would amount to fixing the price
at which plaintiff in error may buy, since one purchase
would establish this for all points without regard to ordinary trade conditions.
The real question comes to this-May the State, in
order to prevent some strong buyers of cream from doing
things which may tend to monopoly, inhibit plaintiff in
error from carrying on its business in the usual way heretofore regarded as both moral and beneficial to the public
and not shown now to be accompanied by evil results
as ordinary incidents? Former decisions here require a
negative answer. We think the inhibition of the statute
has no reasonable relation to the anticipated evil-high
bidding by some with purpose to monopolize or destroy
competition. Looking through form to substance, it
clearly and unmistakably infringes private rights whose
exercise does not ordinarily produce evil consequences, but
the reverse.
In Adams v. Tanner, 244 U. S. 590, 594, this court said:
"Because abuses may, and probably do, grow up in connection with this business, is adequate reason for hedging
it about by proper regulations. But this is not enough
to justify destruction of one's right to follow a distinctly
useful calling in an upright way. Certainly there is no
profession, possibly no business, which does not offer peculiar opportunities for reprehensible practices; and as
to every one of them, no doubt, some can be found quite
ready earnestly to maintain that its suppression would be
in the public interest. Skilfully directed agitation might
also bring about apparent condemnation of any one -of
them by the public. Happily for all, the fundamental
guaranties of the Constitution cannot be freely submerged
if and whenever some ostensible justification is advanced
and the police power invoked."

10

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

Concerning a price-fixing statute, Tyson and Brotherv.
Banton et al., 273 U. S. 418, recently declared: "It is urged
that the statutory provision under review may be upheld
as an appropriate method of preventing fraud, extortion,
collusive arrangements between the management and
those engaged in reselling tickets, and the like. That such
evils exist in some degree in connection with the theatrical
business and its ally, the ticket broker, is undoubtedly
true, as it unfortunately is true in respect of the same or
similar evils in other kinds of business. But evils are to
be suppressed or prevented by legislation which comports
with the Constitution, and not by such as strikes down
those essential rights of private property protected by
that instrument against undue governmental interference.
One vice of the contention is that the statute itself ignores
the righteous distinction between guilt and innocence,
since it applies wholly irrespective of the existence of
fraud, collusion or extortion (if that word can have any
legal significance as applied to transactions of the kind
here dealt with-Commonwealth v. O'Brien & others, 12
Cush. 84, 90), and fixes the resale price as well where the
evils are absent as where they are present. It is not
permissible to enact a law which, in effect, spreads an
all-inclusive net for the feet of everybody upon the chance
that, while the innocent will surely be entangled in its
meshes, some wrong-doers also may be caught." And see
Adkins v. Children's Hospital, 261 U. S. 525; Wolff Co.
v. IndustrialCourt, 262 U. S. 522, 537.
Booth v. Illinois, 184 U. S. 425, much relied upon by
counsel for the State, sustained the validity of an Act
forbidding options to sell or buy property at a future time,
ultimate delivery being intended. The evident purpose
was to prevent gambling contracts. The Supreme Court
of Illinois pointed out that gambling was commonly incidental to dealings in futures, and held the Legislature

FAIRMONT CO. v. MINNESOTA.
1

Opinion of the Court.

might properly conclude that the public interest demanded their suppression as a class in order to avert
this evil. This court said: "A calling may not in itself
be immoral, and yet the tendency of what is generally
or ordinarily or often done in pursuing that calling may
be towards that which is admittedly immoral or pernicious. If, looking at all the circumstances that attend,
or which may ordinarily attend, the pursuit of a particular
calling, the State thinks that certain admitted evils cannot be successfully reached unless that calling be actually
prohibited, the courts cannot interfere, unless, looking
through mere forms and at the substance of the matter,
they can say that the statute enacted professedly to
protect the public morals has no real or substantial relation to that object, but is a clear, unmistakable infringement of rights secured by the fundamental law."
The State also relies upon Otis v. Parker, 187 U. S.
606; Purity Extract Co. v. Lynch, 226 U. S. 192; Rast
v. Van Deman & Lewis, 240 U. S. 342; and Merrick v.
Halsey & Co., 242 U. S.568. But all those cases recognize
the duty of the court to inquire into the real effect of any
statute duly challenged because of interference with
freedom of contract guaranteed by the Fourteenth
Amendment, and to declare it invalid when without substantial relation to some evil within the power of the
State to suppress and a clear infringement of private
rights.
We need not consider other points advanced by plaintiff in error.
The judgment of the court below must be reversed and
the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JusTIcE Hol~mEs, MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS, and
MR. JusTICE SToNE dissent.

