HOFFMAN v. FORAKER.
15

Opinion of the Court.

claim for relief would suffice, and they are not to be found
in the bill.
The decree of the court below must be

Affirmed.

HOFMAN, JUDGE v. MISSOURI Ex REL. FORAKER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.

No. 225. Argued March 11, 1927.-Decided April 11, 1927.
An action under the Federal Employers Liability Act for death by
negligence may be maintained against a railroad in the State of
its incorporation, where it owns part of its line, operated in intrastate as well as interstate commerce, in a county where it has an
agent and a usual place of business, though this be not the State
where the cause of action arose. P. 22.
309 Mo. 625, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri,
in mandamus, which directed the judge of an inferior court
to set aside a judgment dismissing an action for damages,
and to entertain jurisdiction over it.
Mr. Roy W. Rucker, with whom Messrs. Edward J.
White and James F. Green were on the brief, for plaintiff
in error.
Messrs. L. D. Mitchell and Paul Barnett were on the
brief for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE

BRANDEIs

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Missouri, which had granted, in an original proceeding, a peremptory writ of mandamus. 309 Mo. 625. Its judgment
directed the judge of an inferior court to set aside a judgment dismissing an action and ordered him to entertain

22

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 UI. S.

jurisdiction. That action had been brought under the
Federal Employers Liability Act by a citizen and resident of Kansas for the death of an employee of the Missouri PA~ific Railroad. The accident occurred on its line
in Kansas, and the deceased was a citizen of Kansas at
the time of his death. The railroad is a Missouri corporation. The action was brought in a county traversed by
the railroad, in which it had an office and an agent for
the transaction of business. Under a statute of the State
it was liable to suit there. 1919 Mo. Rev. Stat., ยง 1180.
The railroad contends that, as it could have been sued
in Kansas where the accident occurred and the plaintiff
resided, the statute, as applied, was void, under the doctrine of Davis v. Farmers Cooperative Equity Co., 262
U. S. 312, and Atchison, Topeka & SantaFe Ry. v. Wells,
265 U. S. 101, because a suit in Missouri would burden
interstate commerce. In support of its contention, it was
urged that the claims against the carrier for personal injuries are numerous; that the amounts demanded are
large; that in many cases the carrier deems it advisable
to leave the determination of liability to the courts; that
in the action in question there were at least eleven employees working for it in Kansas who were material witnesses, without whose attendance it could not safely
proceed to trial; that to procure their attendance at the
trial in Missouri would cause absence from their work in
interstate commerce; and that this would subject the
carrier to expense.
These allegations remind of Davis v. Farmers Codperative Equity Co. But other facts on which the decision of
that case was rested are absent in the case at bar. Here,
the railroad is not a foreign corporation; it is sued in the
State of its incorporation. It is sued in a State in which
it owns and operates a railroad. It is sued in a county in
which it has an agent and a usual place of business. It
is sued in a State in which it carries on doubtless intra-

