106

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Statement of the Case.

274 U. S.

UNITED STATES EX REL. NORWEGIAN NITROGEN
PRODUCTS COMPANY, INC. v. UNITED STATES
TARIFF COMMISSION.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 91. Argued March 3, 4, 1927.-Decided April 11, 1927.
1. Under Jud. Code § 250, before the Act of February 13, 1925, a
judgment of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia,
affirming dismissal of a petition for mandamus in which the construction of a federal law was drawn in question, was reviewable
here by writ of error. P. 110.
2. No duty of the Tariff Commission to make an investigation of
comparative costs of production here and abroad arises under the
Revenue Act of September 8, 1916, or the Tariff Act of 1922,
except when required by the President under § 315 of the latter.
P. 110.
3. An action in mandamus to compel the Commission to reopen an
investigation of differences in cost of production, which it conducted under an Executive Order as an aid to the President in
adjusting tariff duties under § 315 of the Tariff Act of 1922, and
to disclose to the petitioner information obtained at a prior hearing and allow him to cross-examine witnesses and introduce evidence, became moot when the President fixed the duties, on the
Commission's report. P. 110.
4. In the absence of an injunction or restraining order, an administrative body, after judgment in its favor in an action to control
its conduct by mandamus, may proceed to dispose of the matter
before it notwithstanding the pendency of a writ of error to the
judgment. P. 111.
5. A case becoming moot pending review should be remanded with
directions to dismiss. P. 112.
6 F. (2d) 491, reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia which affirmed a judgment of the
Supreme Court of the District dismissing on demurrer a
petition for a mandamus to require the Tariff Commission
to disclose information obtained by it in an investigation

P

NORWEGIAN CO. v. TARIFF COMM.
106

107

Opinion of the Court.

of costs of production of sodium nitrite and to hold a public hearing, with leave to the plaintiff to cross-examine
investigators and witnesses and offer opposing evidence.
Messrs. George R. Davis and MarionDeVries for plaintiff in error.
Solicitor General Mitchell, with whom Mr. Robert P.
Reeder, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, was on
the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUsTICE SToNE delivered the opinion of the Court.

The Tariff Act of September 21, 1922, c. 356, § 315, 42
Stat. 858, 941, vested in the President the power to adjust tariff duties so as to equalize differences in costs of
production here and abroad of articles wholly or in part
the growth or product of this country, whenever an investigation by the Tariff Commission should reveal disparate costs. Such investigation is made a prerequisite
to action by the President in proclaiming changes of rates.
By Executive Order of October 7, 1922, it was provided
that all petitions or applications for action or relief under
the so-called flexible sections of the Tariff Act of 1922
should be filed with the Tariff Commission.
In October, 1922, the American Nitrogen Products
Company, a corporation of the State of Washington, filed
with the United States Tariff Commission a petition praying for a fifty per cent. increase in the duty imposed by
the Tariff Act of 1922 upon imported sodium nitrite.
The following March, the Tariff Commission, for the purpose of assisting the President in the exercise of the
powers delegated to him by the Act of 1922, ordered an
investigation of the differences in cost of production of
sodium nitrite at home and abroad, and of other pertinent facts and conditions. It was further ordered that all
parties interested should be given an opportunity to be

108

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U.S.

present and produce evidence at a public hearing to be
held at a date to be fixed later.
Plaintiff in error is engaged in the importation of nitrogen products into the United States which it sells on com-,
mission. It represents in the United States, as exclusive
agent, the Norwegian I-ydro-Electric Nitrogen Corporation, the only manufacturer of sodium nitrite in Norway.
Representatives of the Commission, in the course of its
investigation, proceeded to Norway and Germany and
sought from the Norwegian company and from German
manufacturers data showing the cost of production of
sodium nitrite in those countries. This was refused. The
Commission's experts were permitted to examine the
books and records of American manufacturers, obtaining
information of the domestic cost of production and other
relevant data. This information was given under promise that it would be treated as confidential and upon the
assurance that the rules of the Commission and § 708 of
the Revenue Act of September 8, 1916, c. 463, 39 Stat.
756, 798, so required. Section 708 prohibits the Commission from revealing "the trade secrets or processes"
of which it might learn in the course of its investigations.
After making its investigation, the Commission ordered
a public hearing to be held on September 10, 1926. Its
rules provided that: "Parties who have entered appearances shall prior to the filing of briefs, have opportunity
to examine the report of the commissioner or investigator
in charge of the investigation and also the record except
such portions as relate to trade secrets and processes."
At the hearing, plaintiff appeared by counsel and demanded a complete copy of the application of the American Nitrogen Products Company, and attempted to cross
examine its president as to its cost of production. In
making these and other similar demands in the course of
the hearings, plaintiff relied on the provisions of § 315(c)
of the Act of 1922, reading in part: "The commission

NORWEGIAN CO. v. TARIFF COMM.
106

109

Opinion of the Court.

shall give reasohable public notice of its hearings and
shall give reasonable opportunity to parties interested
to be present, to produce evidence, and to be heard. The
commission is authorized to adopt such reasonable procedure, rules, and regulations as it may deem necessary."
The Commission, holding that its action was controlled
by § 708 of the Revenue Act of 1916, prohibiting it from
divulging trade secrets or processes of which it acquired
information in the course of investigation, excluded the
questions asked and disclosed only a copy of the application of the American company, from which a statement
of its costs of production had been deleted. On September 15, 1923, the Commission made a preliminary report stating the results of its inquiry. The report contained a review of the data in the possession of the Commission, including an estimate of the cost of production
in Norway, based upon such public sources in Norway as
were available to it, both the Norwegian company and the
plaintiff having refused to give any information on the
subject. But, following its settled policy, it withheld all
material which would reveal the individual production
costs of American manufacturers. Its practice is to publish the average domestic cost, but this was withheld here
because the average cost was deemed informative of individual costs in view of the small number of American
manufacturers. Hearings were resumed on September 26,
at which plaintiff was given an opportunity to offer evidence, to make oral argument and to file briefs. Requests by plaintiff to cross examine the Commission's
field examiners and experts and to inspect data gathered
by them were refused.
Plaintiff then filed with the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia a petition for mandamus, directing the
Tariff Commission to disclose the information which it
had obtained concerning the cost of production of sodium
nitrite by American and foreign manufacturers, and

110

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

directing the commissioners to hold a public hearing at
which plaintiff should be given an opportunity to cross
examine the investigators and experts of the Commission, and witnesses with respect to such data, to offer
evidence in opposition, and to present arguments against
the American company's petition. The Commission interposed an answer setting up that § 708 of the Revenue
Act forbade the Tariff Commission from disclosing the
information sought. To this answer the plaintiff demurred. The demurrer was overruled and final judgment was entered dismissing the petition.
Pending review by the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, the Commission completed and submitted its report to the President. On May 6, 1924, the
President made proclamation reciting the investigation
of the Commission and fixing the duty at a rate found
necessary to equalize the cost of production of sodium
nitrite at home and abroad. The Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment, holding that the case had become
moot by the action of the President in fixing the new
rate of duty. Notwithsanding this determination, it reviewed the case at length and announced its conclusion
on the merits. 6 Fed. (2d) 491.
The case is properly here on writ of error under § 250
of the Judicial Code before the amendment. of February
13, 1925, defendant in error having by its answer drawn
in question the construction of § 708 of the Revenue
Act. Santa Fe Pac. R. R. v. Work, 267 U. S. 511; Brady
v. Work, 263 U. S. 435; Goldsmith v. Board of Tax
Appeals, 270 U. S. 117.
We conclude that the case had become moot before
the review below and that it is unnecessary for us to
indulge in a discussion of the merits. Under § 315 (c)
and (e) of the Tariff Act of 1922, the President is given
authority to require an investigation by the Commission and it is its duty to fnake one when so required.

NORWEGIAN CO. v. TARIFF COMM.
106

111

Opinion of the Court.

There is no other provision of the Act placing any duty
on the Commission to make such an investigation.
When not so requested by the President, action by the
Commission is discretionary. Under its rules, it is optional with it whether it will employ its resources for
investigations sought by an interested party. Section 703
of the Revenue Act of September 8, 1916, under which
the Commission was created, requires it to make certain
specified studies of the administration and operation of
the tariff laws of the United States and tariff relations
of the United States with foreign countries, on request
of the President and certain Committees of the two
houses of Congress. That Act has no relevancy here
since, unlike the Act of 1922, it contains no provisions
for hearings in conjunction with the investigations there
authorized.
All relief sought here is incidental to the hearing before the Commission on the cost of production of sodium
nitrite. The Commission conducted its inquiry and held
these hearings to aid the President in determining
whether the difference in cost of that product in this
and in foreign countries should be equalized by revising
the tariff under § 315(a) of the Act of 1922. The hearing pending when the plaintiff's petition was filed has
been concluded, as it lawfully might, since there was no
injunction or restraining order and the Commission's
action was taken after the determination of the Supreme
Court of the District in its favor. We need not consider here the effect upon judicial review of an. attempt
to evade or forestall a decision adverse to the Commission. The Commission has filed its report with the
President and the President has made his decision and
proclamation fixing the revised tariff. Either may revive the investigation but neither is under a duty to
do so. Assuming that the plaintiff is entitled to a hearing of the character demanded whenever an investiga-

