DUIGNA1 v. UNITED STATES.
188

Syllabus.

in an amount certainly below $15,000.00-would be justified, the way should be left open for making a new or
revised assessment. The defendants ask, if the present
assessment be held excessive, that it be reduced in this
suit to a proper sum. But to this we do not assent. The
state statute commits the assessing of benefits to a special non-judicial board of assessors, and authorizes that
board, when requested by the commissioners of the district, to revise their assessments by "increasing or diminishing the assessment against particular pieces of
property as justice requires." Act 588, § 10, Special Road
Acts 1919. The better course is to, leave the making of a
substituted or revised assessment to that board. The decree will be modified by including a provision that is without prejudice to the lawful revision of the assessment
conformably to the state statute and not exceeding $15,000
in amount.
Decree modified and affirmed as modified.

DUIGNAN v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 101.

Argued February 21, 1927.-Decided April 25, 1927.

1. Case held properly reviewable by appeal under Jud. Code § 241,
before amendment, and certiorari denied. P. 197.
2. In a suit by the United States against a lessor and a lessee to
abate a liquor nuisance, under § 22 of Title II of the Prohibition
Act, issues raised by a cross bill of the lessor asserting his federal
right under § 23 to a forfeiture of the lease as against the lessee,
are within the jurisdiction of the District Court regardless of the
citizenship of the parties. P. 197.
3. A suit by the United States to abate a liquor nuisance under § 22
of Title II of the Prohibition Act, is a suit in equity and triable
mithout a jury. P. 197.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

4. The constitutional right to a jury trial may be waived by proceeding to trial without demanding a jury and is not saved by an
application to the discretionary power of the court, sitting in
equity, to frame issues for a jury. P. 198.
5. To support a demand for a jury trial of matters raised by a cross
bill, the demandant must first put them in issue by answering the
cross bill. P. 199.
6. Objections to the equity jurisdiction to adjudge a forfeiture of a
lease under § 23 of Title II of the Prohibition Act, and to the
assertion of this right through a cross bill filed by the lessor against
the lessee in a suit brought against them both by the United
States under § 22, are waived if not seasonably taken. P. 199.
4 F. (2d) 983, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affirmed a decree of ,the District Court abating a
nuisance and adjudging forfeiture of a lease, under §§ 22
and 23 of the Prohibition Act.
Mr. Alfred J. Talley for appellant.
Mr. John TV. Davis for appellee Pall Mall Realty Corporation.
Solicitor General Mitchell was on the brief for the
United States.

MR.JU TICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
The United States filed a bill in equity in the district
court for southern New York, under § 22 of the National
Prohibition Act, to abate a liquor nuisance alleged to be
maintained by Duignan, the appellant, upon premises
occupied by him under a lease. By amended bill, the
appellee, the Pall Mall Realty Corporation, the owner of
the leased premises, was made a party defendant. In its
answer, it admitted the allegations of the bill. By cross
bill it set up its ownership of the premises, its lease to
Duignan, the maintenance of a liquor nuisance by him
on the premises in violation of § 21 of the National Pro-

DUIGNAN v. UNITED STATES.
195

Opinion of the Court.

hibition Act, and asked that the lease be forfeited under
§ 23 of the Act. Appellant neither answered the cross
bill nor directed any motion to it, but made application
for a jury trial which was denied.
On the trial without a jury, appellant drew in question the constitutionality of the forfeiture of his leasehold as a denial of due process of law. After the trial,
in which the existence of the nuisance was litigated, the
district court decreed the forfeiture of the lease. This
was affirmed by the court of appeals for the second circuit. 4 F. (2d) 983. The case is properly here on
appeal, Jud. Code, § 241, before amended, and the petition for certiorari, filed as a jurisdictional precaution, is
denied.
At the outset, appellant denies the jurisdiction of the
district court to try the issues raised by the cross bill, in
the absence of diversity of citizenship. Section 23 provides: "Any violation of this title upon any leased premises by the lessee or occupant thereof shall, at the option
of the lessor, work a forfeiture of the lease." The right
thus given to the lessor to forfeit the lease is one arising
under a law of the United States, and the district court
had jurisdiction to determine a suit founded upon it,
regardless of the citizenship of the parties. Jud. Code,
§ 24 (a).
Numerous other questions are raised by appellant's
brief and argument, but so far as they are of substance,
they are involved in or incidental to the two principal
grounds urged for reversal: (1) that appellant was denied the right to a jury trial, in violation of the Seventh
Amendment of the Constitution, and (2) that the forfeiture of appellant's lease is a denial of due process of
law.
So far as appellant's motion for a jury trial was directed to the issues raised by the bill and answer, it was
properly denied, as § 22 of the National Prohibition Act

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

authorizes the abatement of a liquor nuisance by a bill
in equity filed by the United States. Cf. Murphy v.
United States, 272 U. S. 630. But it is urged that § 23,
assuming its constitutionality, at most gives a right at
law to a possessory action for the recovery of the leased
premises, which is not cognizable in a court of equity;
and in any case, appellant was entitled to have the issues
raised by the cross bill tried by a jury.
Appellant's application for a jury was in terms a motion for an order "framing for trial by jury the issues
in this action as to the occurrences of the alleged violations of the National Prohibition Act." It clearly appears from the notice of motion and the supporting affidavits that the motion was not a challenge to the equity
jurisdiction of the court nor a demand for a jury trial
in an action at law, such as is guaranteed by the Constitution. It was rather an application addressed to the
discretion of the court sitting in equity to frame issues
for a jury to aid, as stated, "in advising the court as to
the credibility of the witnesses," and was made on the
ground that this was "not the usual equity case, which
ordinarily involves only matters of law."
The right to a jury trial may be waived where there is
an appearance and participation in the trial without demanding a jury. Kearney v. Case, 12 Wall. 275; Perego
v. Dodge, 163 U. S. 160, 166. Section 649 of the Revised
Statutes provides that issues of fact may be tried by the
court without a jury, upon written stipulation of the
parties, and that the finding of the court upon the facts
shall have the same effect as the verdict of the jury.
But this section does not preclude other kinds of waiver.
Kearney v. Case, supra. Its purpose and effect, when
read together with §§ 648 and 700, is to define the scope
of appellate review in actions at law without a jury.
Unless there is a written stipulation waiving a jury, there
can be no review of the rulings on questions of law in

DUIGNAN v.. UNITED STATES.
195

Opinion of the Court.

the course of the trial or of the sufficiency of a special
finding to support the judgment. See Law v. United
States, 266 U. S. 494, 496; cf. Fleischmann Co. v. United
States, 270 U. S. 349, 355, 356. Appellant's failure to
demand a trial by a common law jury amounted, we
think, to a waiver of the constitutional right, if any,
now claimed.
But even if his application for .a jury trial be regarded
as an assertion of his constitutional right, there were no
issues to be tried by a jury, as he had failed to answer the
cross bill. The Confiscation Cases, 20 Wall. 92, 110.
Hence, there was no error in the court's finding the facts
supporting its judgment, without a jury. Whether issues
raised by the pleadings in proceedings under § 23 must
be tried by jury if seasonably demanded is a question
which does not arise on this record.
Appellant on appeal for the first time challenged the
equity jurisdiction of the court, urging that the remedy at
law was adequate. The cancellation of appellant's lease,
which was the relief sought, was a remedy competent for
equity to give. The repeated holdings of the lower courts
that a suit brought under § 23 is one cognizable M*equity,'
at least suggest that the suit is not so plainly at law that
the court should, of its own motion, have dismissed it.
Under such circumstances, objection to the equity jurisdiction not seasonably taken is waived, Kilbourm v. Sunderland, 130 U. S. 505, 514; Brown v. Lake Superior Iron
Co., 134 U. S. 530, 534-536; Perego v. Dodge, supra, 164,
especially where, as here, appellant did not answer the
cross bill. For the same reason it is unnecessary for us
to determine whether appellee adopted the proper procedure in seeking the forfeiture of the lease by cross bill.
'Grossman v. United States, 280 Fed. 683; United States v. Boynton, 297 Fed. 261; United States v. Archibald, 4 F. ('2d) 587;
United States v. Gafiney, 10 F. (2d) 6q; cf. United States v.
Schwartz, 1 F. (2d) 718.

