McDONALD v. MAXWELL.
76

Syllabus.

if the contention made below differs from the contention
made here to such a degree that the decision upon one
would not necessarily conclude the other, the raising of
one below will not permit the raising of the other here,
even if the same provision of the Constitution be the
basis of both claims. Compare Dewey v. Des Moines,
supra; Marvin v. Trout, 199 U. S. 212, 223-224, 227.
The importance of the rule of practice is illustrated by
the case at bar.- Because the reasonableness of the
method of assessment was not questioned below, there
is nothing in the record to show what figures and what
method of calculation were used by the taxing officers.
The figures adopted by this Court are presented only in
the brief of the plaintiff in error. They are protested by
counsel for the Commonwealth. Moreover, there is reason to believe that the inferences drawn from them are
unsound.
McDONALD ET AL. V. MAXWELL ET AL.,
EXECUTORS.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.
No. 147.

Argued January 20, 1927.--Decided April 11, 1927.

1. A decision of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, in
Probate, allowing a commission to executors in the approval of
their yearly account, is reviewable by appeal without bill of
exceptions, where an issue of law only was involved, raised by
exceptions of the beneficiaries to the account. P. 95.
4 Compare Hamilton Co. v. Massachusetts, 6 Wall. 632, 636; National Bank v. Commonwealth, 9 Wall. 353, 363; Edwards v. Elliott,
21 Wall. 532, 557; Wilson v. McNamee, 102 U. S. 372; Keokuk &
Hamilton Bridge Co. v. Illinois, 175 U. S. 626, 633; Bolln v. Nebraska,
176 U. S. 83, 90; Chapin v. Fye, 179 U. S. 127; Capital City Dairy
Co. v. Ohio, 183 U. S. 238, 248; Cox v. Texas, 202 U. S. 446, 452;
Montana v. Rice, 204 U. S. 291, 301; Hunter v. Pittsburgh,207 U. S.
161, 180; Selover, Bates & Co. v. Walsh, 226 U. S. 112; Illinois Cen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

2. Stock dividends on corporate shares in a decedent's estate in
process of administration, do not in themselves represent an
increase of value upon which the executor is entitled to have a
commission. Gibbons v. Mahon, 136 U. S. 549. P. 96.
3. Judgment entered nunc pro tunc, as of the day on which the
cause was argued and submitted, in view of the death of one of
the respondents since occurring. P. 99.
6 F. (2d) 678, reversed.

CERTIOIIARI (269 U. S. 542) to a judgment of the Court
of Appeals of the District of Columbia which affirmed a
judgment allowing commissions to the respondent executors, over exceptions exhibited on behalf of the beneficiaries.
Mr. Charles V. Imlay, with whom Mr. CharlesE. Wainwright was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Frederic D. McKenney, with whom Messrs. John
S. Flannery, G. Bowdoin Craighill, Joseph S. Graydon,
and Edward DeWitt were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In the course of a proceeding that had been pending
for many years in the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, sitting as a Probate Court, for the administration of the estate of James McDonald, deceased, under
his last will and testament, the executors were allowed
certain commissions for the one year period covered by
their ninth account. On an appeal by the beneficiaries
under the will, two of whom are minors represented by
a guardian ad litem, the District Court of Appeals, being
of opinion that there was "nothing on the face of the
record to indicate
error," affirmed the judgment allowing
0
tral R. R. Co. v. Mulberry Coal Co., 238 U. S 275, 281; Bullen v.
Wisconsin, 240 U. S. 625, 632; Hiawassee River P. Co. v. Power Co.,
252 U. S. 341. Compare Virginian Ry. Co. v. Mullens, 271 U. S. 220.

McDONALD v. MAXWELL.
91

Opinion of the Court.

these commissions. 6 F. (2d) 678. And this writ of
certiorari was thereupon granted. 269 U. S. 542.
A motion by the executors to dismiss the writ and
affirm the judgment, on the ground, in effect, that the
record presents no substanial question for review, was
postponed to the hearing; and the case has been heard
on this motion and on the merits.
The record-aside from formal and undisputed matters-consists of the account filed by the executors, a
report and exception by the guardian ad litem, an exception by the adult beneficiary, and the order of the court
allowing the commissions. From these it appears that
the executors, in August, 1923, filed their ninth account,
covering the period from July 11, 1922 to July 12, 1923hereinafter referred to as the accounting period. In this
account they stated, under the heading of "Receipts
Principal Account," that, in addition to the balance of
principal in their hands on July 11, 1922, shown by their
eighth account, they had charged themselves with the
profits received during the accounting period from the
sales of certain inventoried items, aggregating $1,604.32,
and with certain shares of stock which they had received
during the accounting period as stock dividends, "at the
face or par value thereof," aggregating $1,570,325, making
a total of $1,571,929.32; and that they "claim and hereby
retain for their services a commission of five per cent. upon
profits realized on proceeds of inventoried items, and the
par or face value of stocks received as dividend, viz,
$1,571,929.32 ......
.. 78,596.47."
They further stated, under the heading "Income Account," that, in addition to the balance of income shown
by their eighth account, they had charged themselves
with income received during the accounting period on the
property owned by the estate, aggregating $247,814.39;
and that they "also claim and hereby retain for their
services a commission of five (5) per cent. upon the

94

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

annual income and profits on income investments received . . .. 12,390.72."
The guardian ad litem, pursuant to a former order of
the court, filed a report concerning the matters involved
in this account, in which-after pointing out that the
executors on their previous accounts had been allowed
commissions of more than $200,000 upon the principal of
the estate and $50,000 upon the income-he insisted that
the sum of $12,390.72, claimed as commission on the income received, was a sufficient compensation for their
services during the accounting period; and that as to the
additional commission of $78,596.47 claimed on an "increase in principal" of $1,571,929.32, the stock dividends
of $1,570,325, of which this mainly consisted, were "not
a proper basis upon which to charge a commission." And
he specifically "except(ed) to the requested allowance
of $78,596.47 for commission on principal."
The adult beneficiary also filed an exception to the
account upon the ground that "the commissions claimed,
in large part, are based upon an alleged increase in the
capital assets, of said estate . . . consisting in the
issuance to said estate, as the holder of stock in a large
number of corporations, of stock dividends, when as a
matter of law and of fact, the issuance of said stock dividends added nothing to the interest of said estate as a
share holder in said corporations, but merely changed the
evidence of said interest, in the shape of stock certificates,"
and "the issuance of stock dividends to said estate cannot be considered as an increase of either capital or
income."
Thereafter, the court, without handing down an opinion, entered an order reciting that the ninth account of
the executors "being now presented for approval, the
same is, after examination by the Court, approved and
passed, the executors being allowed $12,390.72 commission on income, as claimed, but being hereby allowed

McDONALD v. MAXWELL.
91

Opinion of the Court.

$50,000.00 commission on increase in principal instead of
$78,596.47 claimed."
It thus is, apparent that the court allowed the commission of $50,000 "upon profits realized on proceeds of
inventoried items, and the par or face value of stocks
received as dividend, viz, $1,571,929.32," for which the
executors had claimed a commission of $78,596.47, on
the ground that these profits and the par or face value
of the stock dividends constituted an " increase in principal" upon which a commission could be allowed.
The beneficiaries do not challenge here so much of this
allowance as was based on the $1,604.32 of profits realized
from inventoried items, on which the executors claimed
a commission of 5 per cent., or $80.22. And the sole
question presented is whether the remainder of the
$50,000 allowed as a "commission on increase in principal," that is, at least $49,019.78, which was based
solely on the $1,570,325 of stock dividends, was properly
allowed.
The Court of Appeals-after stating that the orders in
a proceeding in the District Probate Court are reviewable
only in accordance with the practice at common law by
which the evidence must be brought up in a bill of exceptions, and that the record did not contain any bill of
exceptions or purport to show the substance of the testimony-said: "The court below, evidently after a hearing
in which all pertinent facts and circumstances were considered, reached the conclusion that the executors were
entitled to $50,000 commission on increase in principal,
and made that allowance. The facts and circumstances
upon which this allowance was based are not before us,
and, there being nothing on the face of the record to
indicate error, it is apparent that the judgment must be
affirmed ...
." We think this was error.
This proceeding is not like one for the probate of a will
involving an issue as to the competency of the testator, in

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

which the parties have a right to a trial by jury and to
bills of exception covering the rulings of the court during
the progress of the trial, and a review may be had upon
writ of error, Ormsby v. Webb, 134 U. S. 47, 64, but one
in which the District Supreme Court, sitting in probate,
is clothed, as an orphans! court, with power to proceed
with the settlement and distribution of the estate in
accordance with equitable principles and procedure, and
a controversy in matter of law raised by the exceptions
of the beneficiaries to the executors' account, and apparent
on the record, is reviewable on appeal. Kenaday v. Sinnott, 179 U. S. 606, 614.
Here the exceptions raised no issue as to the matters
of fact stated in the executors' account, but a question of
law merely. There is no recital in the record that the
order was based upon any evidence submitted; no reference to the hearing of any evidence; and nothing, we
think, from which any inference can be rightly drawn
that the court made an investigation of any matters not
shown by the executors' account, or allowed the commission on the stock dividends on any ground other than
that as matter of law the receipt of the stock dividends
constituted an "increase in principal" of the estate.
And as to this we think the ruling was erroneous.
There was, it is to be noted, no statement in the executors' account that the aggregate value of the dividend
shares received and the original shares on hand at the
commencement of the accounting period, was any greater
than the value of the original shares alone before the
dividend shares were issued, or that the value of the
principal of the estate had increased in any manner

during the accounting period. They made no claim for
the allowance of an additional commission on the ground
that there had been such an increase; their sole claim

being, as shown by their account, that they were entitled

McDONALD v. MAXWELL.
91

Opinion of the Court.

to the additional commission by reason of the fact that
they had received stock dividends of the par value stated.
And, for aught that appeared from their account, the
combined value of the original shares and the dividend
shares was precisely the same at the end of the accounting
period as the value of the original shares alone at its
commencement.
Assuming, but not deciding, that if the executors'
account had shown an increase in the value of the principal of the estate during the accounting period, this, if
claimed, would have been a proper basis for the allowance
of an additional commission, it is clear that the mere fact
that the executors had received the stock dividends during
the accounting period did not show any increase in the
principal of the estate.
In Gibbons v. Mahon, 136 U. S. 549, 559, 565, in determining whether a stock dividend accrued to the tenant for
life under a trust estate, this Court said: "A stock dividend really takes nothing from the property of the corporation, and adds nothing to the interests of the shareholders. Its property is not diminished, and their interests are not increased. After such a dividend, as before, the corporation has the title in all the corporate
property; the aggregate interests therein of all the shareholders are represented by the whole number of shares;
and the proportional interest of each shareholder remains
the same. The only change is in the evidence which represents that interest, the new shares and the original
shares together representing the same proportional interest that the original shares represented before the issue
of new ones." And the Court quoted with approval the
statement in Williams v. Western Union Telegraph Co.,
93 N. Y. 162, 189, that: "After such a dividend the aggregate of the stockholders own no more interest in the
corporation than before. The whole number of shares
5-5514°-28----7

98

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 IT.S.

before the stock dividend represented the whole property
of the corporation, and after the dividend they represent
that and no more. A stock dividend does not distribute
property, but simply dilutes the shares as they existed
before." So in Eisner v. Macomber, 252 U. S. 189, 211,
in which it was held that stock dividends were not taxable
as income, the Court said: "The essential and controlling fact is that the stockholder has received nothing out
of the company's assets for his separate use and benefit;
on the contrary, every dollar of his original investment,
together with whatever accretions and accumulations have
resulted from employment of his money and that of the
other stockholders in the business of the company, still
remains the property of the company, and subject to business risks which may result in wiping out the entire investment. Having regard to the very truth of the matter,
to substance and not to form, he has received nothing that
answers the definition of income within the meaning of
the Sixteenth Amendment."
It is apparent, in the light of these decisions, that the
stock dividends received by the executors represented no
real increase in the principal of the estate during the
accounting period. They merely changed the form of the
estate's investment in the corporate stocks by increasing
the number of its shares, but left the aggregate value of
all its shares the same as that before the dividend shares
were issued. After their issuance, which necessarily
"diluted" the value of the original shares, the dividend
shares and the original shares together represented the
same proportional interest in the corporate properties that
had previously been represented by the original shares
alone; no more, and no less. Clearly, therefore, the dividend shares themselves represented no increase in the
value of the estate; and they could not properly be taken
as the basis for the allowance of a commission to the

