,215

LIGGETT & MYERS v. U. S.
208

Syllabus.

upon the fund.5 It was well within the discretion of the
District Court to charge the fund in the case at bar.
We have no occasion to consider the contention, made
as to a part of the charges, that they were incurred after
the acquiescence had ceased and, hence, do not fall within
the supposed exception above referred to. For the waiver
of the objection to venue conferred upon the District
Court complete jurisdiction of the cause, and the power
to impose upon the corporation payment of the receivers'
charges does not rest on acquiescence. There is no serious
contention that any particular charge allowed was, in its
nature or in amount, improper, or that in allowing it as
a charge against the fund there was an abuse of discretion.
The contention that the first decision of the Circuit
Court of Appeals directing dismissal of the bill for want
of jurisdiction had become "the law of the case" and
that, therefore, this Court must assume that the dismissal of the bill directed was properly a dismissal for
want of jurisdiction, is groundless. Messenger v. Anderson, 225 U. S. 436, 444; Diaz v. Patterson,263 U. S. 399,
402; Davis v. O'Hara,266 U. S. 314, 321.
Affirmed.

LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 362. Argued March 3, 1927.--Decided May 2, 1927.
1. A continuing order for naval supplies made during the late war
by direction of the President, under Acts of March 4 and June 15,
1917, examined and held to be not an offer to purchase but a command, acceptance of which "subject to conditions" specified, did
'See Clark v. Brown, 119 Fed. 130; In re Wilkes-Barre Light Co.,
235 Fed. 807; In re Independent Machine Corp., 251 Fed. 484. Compare Dillingham v. Moran, 81 Fed. 759; 101 Fed. 933; Pennsylvania
Steel Co. .v. New York City Ry. Co., 198 Fed. 721, 725-734.

216

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Petitioner.

274 U. S.

not make a contract; therefore, the property delivered under it
was taken by eminent domain. P. 220.
2. For property not paid for when taken, just compensation includes
the value at that time, with enough more, measurable by interest, to
produce the equivalent of full value paid at the taking. Id.
61 Ct. Cls. 693, reversed.

CERTIORAnI to a judgment of the Court of Claims allowing a recovery less than the petitioner's claim, for tobacco
products furnished the Government during the war.
Mr. Chester A. Gwinn, with whom Mr. Adrian C. Humphreys was on the brief, for petitioner.
The owner is not limited to the value of the property
at the time of the taking but is entitled to such addition
as will produce the full equivalent of that value paid contemporaneously with the taking. Interest at a proper
rate is a good measure by which to ascertain the amount
so to be added. SeaboardA. L. Ry. v. United States, 261
U. S. 299; Brooks-Scanlon Corp. v. United States, 265
U. S. 106; United States v. Benedict, 261 U. S. 294;
United States v. Rogers, 255 U. S. 163.
Petitioner's property was taken by the United States
through the exercise of its right of eminent domain.
American Smelting & Ref. Co. v. United States, 259 U. S.
75; Atlantic Ref. Co. v. United States, 59 Ct. Cls. 108;
SeaboardA. L. Ry. v. United States, supra; Brooks-Scanlon Corp. v. United States, supra.
Since Congress has no power to limit the right to just
compensation guaranteed by the Fifth Amendment, ยง 177
of the Judicial Code does not apply to this case. BrooksScanlon Corp. v. United States, supra; United States v.
Benedict, supra; Seaboard A. L. Ry. v. United States,
supra; MonongahelaNay. Co. v. United States, 148 U. S.
312; United States v. New York, 160 U. S. 598; Plymouth
Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 531.

LIGGETT & MYERS v. U. S.
215

Argument for the United States.

Assistant Attorney General Galloway,with whom Solicitor General Mitchell was on the brief, for the United
States.
The question presented is whether under the circumstances of this case there was a taking or requisition under
the power of eminent domain, or a voluntary sale under
contract. It must be conceded that the question is not
settled by the decision in the case of American Smelting
Co. v. United States, 259 U. S. 75. In that case the order
for merchandise did not state that compliance with it was
obligatory, and made no reference to statutes authorizing
the United States to requisition property, as did the naval
order in the present case. The order in that case also
specified a price for the copper, and the Smelting Company not only agreed to deliver it as specified in
the order, but agreed to the price fixed. The view
that in the present case there was no requisition or
taking under the power of eminent domain rests on the
contention that where an "obligatory" order or requisition is issued under a statute authorizing the exercise of
the power of eminent domain, the property owner to whom
it is directed may not voluntarily deliver the property in
obedience to the order, but must require the United States
to come and take it, and that if he does indicate an "acceptance" or willingness to comply with the order, except
as to the price suggested, and thereafter voluntarily delivers the merchandise to the United States, he has made a
contract which limits him to the value as of the date
of delivery without interest thereon to the date of payment, whereas if he had stood fast and refused to comply
with the order in any particular, and required the government to send and seize his property, he would place himself in the better position of being entitled, in addition to
the value as of the date of the taking, to interest thereon
to the date of payment.
The conclusion reached by the Court of Claims is not
so obviously correct as to remove the question from the

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

field of reasonable debate. The question is one of importance affecting constitutional rights of citizens. Other
cases involving the same problem are pending.
Messrs. Ira Jewell Williams, John H. Stone, and F. R.
Foraker filed a brief as amici curiae, by special leave of
Court.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Plaintiff brought this action to recover a balance
claimed for tobacco products obtained from it for the
Navy and Marine Corps between September 8, and November 23, 1918. The Court of Claims found the value to
be $483,504.30 and that in the same period the United
States paid on account $423,893.96, and gave judgment
for the difference, $59,610.34, without more. The plaintiff contends that the products were taken under the
power of eminent domain and that it is entitled to such
additional sum as will produce the equivalent of their
value paid at the time of the taking; and that interest at
a reasonable rate is the measure of the amount required to
be added in order to make just compensation.
The sole question is whether the facts found constitute
a taking by eminent domain. Plaintiff was engaged in the
manufacture and sale of tobacco products. August 26,
1918, the Bureau of Supplies and Accounts of the Navy
issued and delivered to it Navy order N-4128, stating that
pursuant to the Act of March 4, 1917 (39 Stat. 1168, 1193)
and the Act of June 15, 1917 (40 Stat. 182) and under the
direction of the President an order thereby was placed to
furnish specified tobacco products for which provisional
prices were named; that compliance was obligatory; that
no commercial orders should be allowed to interfere with
the delivery called for; that, as it was impracticable then
to "determine a reasonable and just compensation for the
material to be delivered, the fixing of the price will be sub-

LIGGETT & MYERS v. U. S.
215

Opinion of the Court.

ject to later determination. You are assured of a reasonable profit under this order; and as an advance payment
you will be paid the unit prices stated hereon, with the
understanding that such advance payment will not be
considered as having any bearing upon the price to be subsequently fixed. Any difference between the amount of
such advance payment and the amount finally determined
upon as being just and reasonable will be paid to you or
refunded by you, as the case may be." The document
stated that the order must be accepted and filled in any
event; that it was to be signed and returned by plaintiff;
that deliyeries were to be made as directed by a designated
officer and bills sent to him bearing a certificate that the
prices were those stated in the order; and that the conditions appearing on the reverse side of the order were made
a part of it. These included printed portions of the
above-mentioned Acts of Congress empowering the President in time of war to place an order with any person for
war material, of a kind and quantity being produced by
him, as the necessities of the Government might require;
declaring that "compliance with all such orders shall be
obligatory," and that, whenever the United States shall
requisition any war material" it shall make just compensation therefor"; and authorizing the President to exercise this power through agencies to be determined by him.
September 9, 1918, the Paymaster General of the Navy
directed that any orders issued by the Quartermaster General of the Marine Corps should be executed and billed at
the prices specified in order N-4128. And, October 14
and November 22 following, the order was further modified so as to call for additional tobacco products. Upon
receipt of the order and each of the modifications plaintiff signed a statement thereon that it was "accepted subject to the conditions" specified. The President had
authorized the Secretary of the Navy, either directly or
through any officer who, acting under the Secretary, had

