TIMKEN CO. v. PENNA. R. R. CO.
175

Syllabus.

imposing a limitation in favor of the assessment payers
against any supplemental assessment that should exceed
the benefits conferred on each one by the improvement.
Supplemental assessments, in providing for the payment
-for such improvements, are recognized as a legitimate
part of the proceeding necessary to raise the money and
to pay bonds issued to meet the cost; and if, in the
process of collection, it shall appear that some of the
assessed land fails to pay the assessment and is appropriated and sold, the distribution of the deficit thus
arising, to be included in another assessment, is only
meeting the to be expected cost of the improvement.
When the operation of the law works uniformly as against
all parts of the assessment district, and results in a higher
cost of the improvement, and an increased assessment
on all the owners of land who have paid, it violates no
constitutional right of theirs as long as their benefits continue respectively to exceed their individual assessments.
Orr v. Allen, 248 U. S. 35; Orr v. Allen, 245 'Fed. 486,
498; Norris v. Montezuma Valley IrrigationDistrict, 248
Fed. 369, 373; Hagar v. Reclamation District, 111 U. S.
701; FallbrookIrrigationDistrictv. Bradley, 164 U. S. 112.
Affirmed.

TIMKEN ROLLER BEARING COMPANY v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY.
GOODBODY, RECEIVER, v. PENNSYLVANIA
RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Nos. 168, 178.

Argued February 25, 1927.-Decided April 18, 1927.

1. An action against a railroad for the value of switching service
performed by a shipper who did so at the railroad's request during
a railroad strike and also paid the railroad tariff charges covering
the same service, is within the jurisdiction of the District Court

182

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Counsel for Parties.

274 U. S.

where diversity of citizenship and jurisdictional amount are present; and the question whether an administrative decision by the
Interstate Commerce Commission is prerequisite to the plaintiff's
cause of action, is a question of the merits. P. 185.
2. Under Jud. Code § 238, a judgment of the District Court dismissing a case within its power to decide, upon a decision of the
merits, was not reviewable directly by this Court though erroneously styled a dismissal "for want of jurisdiction." P. 185.
3. By the Act of September 14, 1922 (repealed by Act of February
13, 1925) a writ of error from this Court to the District Court
was transferrable to the Circuit Court of Appeals when erroneously
allowed under Jud. Code § 238 to a judgment of dismissal on the
merits properly reviewable in the latter court. P. 186.
4. The provision of the Act of February 13, 1925, § 14, that it
shall not affect cases "pending in the Supreme Court" on its
effective date (three months from its approval) applies to a case
erroneously lodged in this Court under Jud. Code § 238, which
should have gone to the Circuit Court of Appeals, and imposes the
duty of transferring it to that court under the-Act of September
14, 1942. P. 187.
5. A writ of error from this Court, issued in due form by a judge
having authority to issue such writs, followed by due execution of
the writ and lodgment of the record here, is to be regarded as a
case "pending" in this Court from the allowance and issuance of
the writ, even though the writ was allowed and issued erroneously.
P. 188.
ACTIONS to recover the value of switching service,
brought in an Ohio state court and removed, on the ground
of diversity of citizenship, to the District Court, where
they were dismissed for supposed want of jurisdiction.
Orders made at this term dismissing the writs of error
are now set aside and the causes are transferred to the
Circuit Court of Appeals.

Messrs. Luther Day, Rufus S. Day, and Donald W.
Kling for plaintiffs in error, submitted.
Mr. Andrew P. Martin, with whom Messrs. Andrew
Squire and Thomas M. Kirby were on the briefs, for
defendant in error.

TIMKEN CO. v. PENNA. R. R. CO.
181

Opinion of the Court.

M . CHIEF JuSTICE TAr delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These two cases are exactly alike, and the same disposition will be made of them. They were dismissed at this
term for lack of jurisdiction, as follows:
"Dismissed for lack of jurisdiction in this Court on the
authority of Tramportes Maritimes Do Estada v. Almeida, 265 U. S. 104, 105, and Oliver American Trading
Company v. Government of the United States of Mexico,
264 U. S. 440, 442."
This is a motion to set aside the dismissals and to substitute therefor orders transferring them to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.
The Timken Roller Bearing Company is a corporation
of Ohio engaged in the business of making roller bearings
and other steel products, with its principal place of business in Canton, Stark County, Ohio. The Pennsylvania
Railroad is a corporation of Pennsylvania and a common
carrier engaged in Ohio, and carried freight for the Timken Company. The Timken Company sued the Pennsylvania Company, averring the following facts:
On April 10, 1920, the yard employees of the Pennsylvania Company struck. That Company notified the Timken Company that it would be unable to switch freight
cars for it from the Pennsylvania's interchange tracks
to the customary delivery of the Timken plant at Canton,
Ohio. The Pennsylvania Company then provided the
Timken Company with a yard locomotive, and from April
13, 1920, to about September 30, 1920, the Timken Company, with the knowledge and consent, and at the request
of the Pennsylvania Company, did the switching service
itself. The Pennsylvania Company made to the Timken
Company its customary charges for such switching service at its regular freight rates, which the Timken Company
paid. During that period the Timken Company switched
1640 freight cars for the Pennsylvania Company, the

184

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U.S.

reasonable value of which service was $6,534.61. This
amount was included in the line haul freight charges paid
by the Timken Company to the Pennsylvania Company.
The Pennsylvania Company was thus unjustly enriched
in the amount above stated, and the Pennsylvania Company owed to the Timken Company the reasonable value
of the service as stated.
The suit of the Timken Company was brought in the
Common Pleas Court of Cuyahoga County, Ohio, and
removed by the Pennsylvania Company, on the ground
of diverse citizenship, to the United States District Court
for the Northern District of Ohio. In that court the
Pennsylvania Company filed a motion to dismiss for lack
of jurisdiction, on the grounds:
(a) That the matters complained of in the plaintiff's
petition essentially involved the making of a rate, as to
which the District Court had no power;
(b) The subject affected the reasonableness of rates
and the reasonableness of a practice in interstate commerce, which were administrative questions, confided
primarily to the Interstate Commerce.Commission, and
there was no allegation in the plaintiff's petition that the
Interstate Commerce Commission had prescribed any
rule, rate or practice which would regulate, control or
govern the rights or obligations of the plaimtiff and defendant in the matter complained of;
(c) That to compensate the plaintiff for the expense
of the switching service set forth in plaintiff's petition
would be tantamount to giving it a rebate, contrary to
law.
The motion to dismiss was sustained by the District
Court on the ground that the question presented by the
plaintiff's petition was an administrative and not a judicial question and that exclusive jurisdiction to hear and
determine the matters complained of was vested in the
Interstate Commerce Commission. The District Court

TIMKEN CO. v. PENNA. R. R. CO.
181

Opinion of the Court.

therefore dismissed the petition solely for want of jurisdiction, and, under the provisions of § 238 of the Judicial
Code of the United States as it stood at the time, January
30, 1925: "Appeals and writs of error may be taken from
the District Courts, including the United States District
Court for Hawaii, direct to the Supreme Court in the following cases: In any case in which the jurisdiction of the
Court is in issue, in which ase the question of jurisdiction alone shall be certified to the Supreme Court from
the court below for decision. . . . ," it made the following certificate:
"This Court by its final order dismissed the suit solely
for want of jurisdiction.
"This certificate is made conformably to Judicial Code,
Section 238, and the opinion filed herein is made a part
of the record and will be certified and sent up as a part
of the proceedings, together with this certificate."
Thereupon a writ of error from this Court to the District Court was allowed by the District Judge.
When the case was argued here in open court, this
Court ordered the dismissal of the writ of error as above,
for the reason that the question of jurisdiction passed on
by the District Court in this case was not such a question
as was covered by § 238. As interpreted by repeated
decisions of the Court, such a question is in issue only
when the District Court's power to hear and determine
the cause as defined and limited by the Constitution or
statutes of the United States is in controversy, and, where
a District Court is vested with jurisdiction of a cause, as
where diversity of citizenship exists, and the matter in
controversy is of the requisite value, the question whether
it has the power to afford the plaintiff a particular remedy
does not present a jurisdictional issue. Smith v. Apple,
264 U. S. 274, 278; Oliver Trading Company v. Mexico,
264 U. S. 440, 442; Transportes Maritimes Do Estado

186

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

v. Almeida, 265 U. S. 104, 105. In this case there was no
question about the jurisdiction of the Court, for there was
diverse citizenship and the value of the matter in controversy was of requisite amount. The real question was
whether, in the absence of an administrative decision by
the Interstate Commerce Commission, the plaintiff had
a cause of action. See Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Merchants Elevator Co., 259 U. S. 285. It went to the merits
and not to the jurisdiction, and therefore this Court had
no jurisdiction by writ of error under § 238 to consider
the case.
The issue now made is whether this Court made the
proper disposition of the cause by dismissing it, in view
of the amendment by Act of Congress of September 14,
1922, to § 238 of the Judicial Code, called § 238 (a), c.
305, 42 Stat. 837, as follows:
"If an appeal or writ of error has been or shall be
taken to, or issued out of, any circuit court of appeals in
a case wherein such appeal or writ of error should have
been taken to or issued out of the Supreme Court; or if
an appeal or writ of error has been or shall be taken to,
or issued out of, the Supreme Court in a case wherein
such appeal or writ of error should have been taken to, or
issued out of a circuit court of appeals, such appeal or writ
of error shall not for such reason be dismissed, but shall
be transferred to the proper court, which shall thereupon
be possessed of the same and shall proceed to the determination thereof, with the same force and effect as if
such appeal or writ of error had been duly taken to, or
issued out of, the court to which it is so transferred."
There is no doubt that under this section, if it applies to
the present case, the motion to dismiss should not have
been granted as it was, but the case should have been
transferred to the Circuit Court of Appeals for a review
of the issue on the merits as to the cause of action set up
by the Timken Company in its petition.

TIMKEN CO. v. PENNA. R. R. CO.
181

.187

Opinion of the Court.

The motion now made to set aside the disnmisskl and
enter an order of transfer is resisted by the attorneys for
the Pennsylvania Company, on the ground that § 238 (a)
does not now apply to the present case. This suit was
filed in the Common Pleas Court of Cuyahoga County
on May 31, 1924, and was removed to the United States
District Court for the Northern District of Ohio June 30,
1924, and upon the defendant's motion was dismissed by
the District Court for lack of jurisdiction, the judge's
certificate to that effect being filed January 30, 1925. The
writ of error was allowed by the District Court on April
6, 1925, was issued on that date and served upon -the defendant in error April 18, 1925-all before the taking
effect of the Act of February, 1925, on May 13, 1925.
The return on the writ of error was transmitted by the
Clerk of the District Court on July 3, 1925, the transcript
of record being filed on July 13, 1925.
The Act of September 14, 1922, § 238 (a) was expressly
repealed by the Act of February 13, 1925, § 13, 43 Stat.
942. Section 14 provides that the Act "shall take
effect three months after its approval, but shall not affect
cases then pending in the Supreme Court, nor shall it
affect the right to a review or the mode or time for exercising the same as respects any judgment or decree entered
prior to the date when it takes effect." The defendant
contends that § 14 can not be construed to continue the
effect of § 238 (a) of the Act of September 22, 1922,
because § 14 only saves cases then pending in the Supreme
Court; that, as this Court has now found it had no jurisdiction of the writ of error issued by this Court to the
District Court, it can not be said that it was a case pending in this Court, and therefore it did not come within
the saving clause and the order dismissing the case for lack
of jurisdiction must stand. We think that this is much
too narrow a construction of the saving provision of § 14.
A writ of error duly issued by a judge having authority
to issue writs of error from this Court to the District

