DEAL v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

DEAL ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 344. Submitted April 25, 1927.--Decided May 16, 1927.

1. A postmaster is not liable as an insurer under Rev. Stats. § 3846
for the loss of a registered package containing money which belongs
to the United States but which is not such that it may be "ordered
by the Postmaster General to be transferred or paid out." P. 279.
2. Under Postal Regulations of 1913, §§ 291 and 940, a postmaster
and his surety are responsible for registered mail "lost or rifled,"
when the postoffice "has been robbed," only if the "depredation

or loss be due to negligence or disregard of the Regulations." P.
280.
3. Charges for witness travel outside the district are not taxable
against a defeated party to a civil action in the District Court for

Alaska. P. 284.
11 F. (2d) 3, reversed.

(271 U. S. 656) to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals which affirmed a judgment of the District Court for the Territory of Alaska in favor of the
United States in a suit against a postmaster and his surety
for money abstracted from a registered package.
CERTIORARI

Mr. Louis S. Beedy for petitioners.
Solicitor General Mitchell, Assistant Attorney General
Letts, Mr. GardnerP. Lloyd, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, and Mr. J. Kennedy White, Attorney in
the Department of Justice, for the United States.
M

. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Upon his appointment as postmaster at Fairbanks,
Alaska, petitioner Deal executed the ordinary official
bond, with the Fidelity & Guaranty Company as surety,
conditioned that he "shall faithfully discharge all duties

278

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U.S.

and trusts imposed on him as postmaster either by law
or by the regulations of the Post Office Department," etc.
The United States sued on this bond in a District Court
of Alaska and asked judgment for ninety-nine hundred
dollars, the amount of currency abstracted from a package deposited in the Fairbanks office for registration and
transmission. Judgment upon a verdict went for them
and was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, Ninth
Circuit, notwithstanding errors by the trial court, recognized but held to be harmless. 11 Fed. (2d) 3.
Replying to the petition for certiorari from this Court,
the Solicitor General very properly said, "The record is
in a jumble, and the treatment of the case by the trial
court involved so many inconsistencies that the case is
difficult to analyse."
The trial judge charged the jury upon three inconsistent theories. (1) That the postmaster was liable for
the abstracted money only if guilty of some negligence
which caused the loss. (2) That liability existed if he
had violated some regulation of the Post Office Department respecting care of the registered package although
not shown to be proximate cause of the loss. (3) That
the money taken, being property of the United States,
was public funds and the postmaster became liable therefor as an insurer as though it had been received from sale
of stamps or money orders.
Among other things, the record disclosesThat on September 15, 1921, the First National Bank
deposited at the Fairbanks Post Office for registration and
transmission a package addressed to the disbursing agent
at Healy, Alaska, via Nenana, which contained ninetynine hundred dollars in currency, and some silver, belonging to the United States. The clerk who received and
registered it thought the package contained money, but
was not so advised. Another clerk placed it in an iron
safe and left the door on the day combination.

DEAL v. UNITED STATES.
277

279

Opinion of the Court.

That during the night of September 15, petitioner Deal
permitted an unauthorized person to enter the office.
September 16 the package was placed in the pouch destined to Nenana. Upon its arrival at that place the currency was gone-a magazine filled the space.
That some evidence touching treatment of the package

at the Fairhanks office and much testimony concerning
transportation, tended to show the bills were abstracted
while it remained there.
Considering the serious nature of the errors committed
by the trial court, and upon the entire record, we 'must

conclude that they caused material prejudice to the petitioners' substantial rights. Act February 26, 1919, c.
48, 40 Stat. 1181. Accordingly, the challenged judgment
must be reversed and the cause remanded for another
trial. Under this conclusion, we need only consider matters probably important for further conduct of the cause.
The Circuit Court of Appeals properly rejected, and
the Solicitor General does not rely upon, the theory that
under § 3846 R. S. (§ 360, Postal Regulations 1913) the
postmaster became liable for the registered package as
an insurer. That section provides: "Postmasters shall
keep safely, without loaning, using, depositing in an unauthorized bank, or exchanging for other funds, all the
public money collected by them, or which may come into
their possession, until it is ordered by the PostmasterGeneral to be transferred or paid out." Public money,
within this provision, "obviously is money belonging to
the United States in such sense that it may be ordered by
the Postmaster General to be transferred or paid out."
Smyer v. United States, 273 U. S. 333.
It is admitted that petitioner Deal failed to observe
certain regulations intended to secure safety of registered
matter; but it is stoutly denied that the evidence showed
any causal connection between such negligence or disregard of duty and the loss sustained.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

During 1921 the 1913 Edition, Postal Laws and Regulations, was in force. Sections which require special
consideration follow:
"Sec. 291. When a post office has been robbed, the postmaster shall immediately report all the facts to the Chief
Inspector and to the post-office inspector in charge of
the division in which the post office is located. (See sec.
35.) The report should give, if possible, all the circumstances connected with the robbery, the date, a detailed
inventory of the loss, the denominations of stamped
paper stolen, the amount of postal and money-order
funds and of each class of Government property. The
postmaster shall be held responsible for the loss if he
fails to exercise due care in the protection of the property. If the loss includes the mail key the number should
be given. (See sec. 1527.) Full particulars regarding
registered mail lost or rifled should be reported. The
Chief Inspector shall promptly notify the Assistant Attorney General of every such casualty from which a
claim for credit under the provisions of section 150 may
arise.
"Sec. 940. Postmasters and other postal employees will
be held personally responsible by the Post Office Department for the wrong delivery, depredation upon, or loss
of any registered letter or parcel if such wrong delivery,
depredation, or loss be due to negligence or disregard of
the regulations. [The provisions of this section appear
unchanged as § 989, Edition 1924 of the Regulations.]
"See. 150 [Act May 9, 1888, c. 231, 25 Stat. 135, as
amended by Act June 11, 1896, c. 424, 29 Stat. 458].
That the Postmaster General be, and he is hereby, authorized to investigate all claims of postmasters for the
loss of money-order funds, postal funds, postage stamps,
stamped envelopes, newspaper wrappers, and postal
cards, belonging to the United States in the hands of such
postmasters, resulting from burglary, fire, or other un-

DEAL v. UNITED STATES.
277

Opinion of the Court.

avoidable casualty, and if he shall determine that such
loss resulted from no fault or negligence on the part of
such postmasters, to pay to such postmasters, or credit
them with the amount so ascertained to have been lost
or destroyed, etc., etc."
Did § 291 impose liability for theft from the registered
package while held by the postmaster and not protected
as the Regulations required, without evidence to show
that the loss resulted from failure to observe them? If
so, it was unnecessary to show such causal connection,
as the United States maintain. But if § 940 defined the
responsibility, as he insists, that relation was essential.
Section 492, Edition 1879, Postal Laws and Regulations; § 700, ed. 1887; § 669, ed. 1893; § 278, ed. 1902;
§ 328, ed. 1924, correspond to § 291, ed. 1913.
Edition 1879. "Sec. 492. Postmasters to immediately
report robbery of post office. Whenever a post office has
been robbed the postmaster will immediately report all
the facts
. . This report must state as fully as
possible all the circumstances connected with the robbery, giving the date and extent of the loss. He must
be careful to state whether the loss consists of stamps,
stamped envelopes, postal cards, letters (stolen or rifled),
postal or money-order funds, or government property.
S.
W He must give all the information in his possession relating to each lost or rifled registered letter
. . . For the value of registered or ordinary mail lost
by robbery of post offices postmasters will be held responsible if, upon investigation, it appears that due care
was not taken to secure the mail matter from depredation."
Edition 1887. "Sec. 700. Reports of robberies of post
offices. . . . As to registered matter lost or rifled, the
report should specify the post office where mailed, date
of mailing, number of letter and registered package envelope, by whom written, to whom addressed, and con-

282

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

tents, if known. For the value of registered or ordinary
mail matter lost by robbery of post offices, the postmaster
may be held responsible to the losers, if upon investigation it appears that due care was not taken for the protection of the property.
"
Section 669, Edition 1893, does not differ materially
from § 700, Edition 1887; and this is true of § 278, Edition 1902, except the latter declares "the postmaster will
be held responsible," while the two previous editions say
"may be held."
Edition 1924. "Sec. 328. When a post office has been
broken into by burglars, the postmaster shall [make report, etc.] . . . Full particulars also regarding registered mail lost or rifled should be given. . . . The
postmaster shall be held responsible for the loss if he
fails to exercise due care in the protection of the
property."
Section 864, Edition 1902, (to which § 940, Edition
1913, corresponds) provides--" Postmasters will be held
personally responsible by the Post Office Department for
the wrong delivery, depredation upon, or loss of any registered letter or parcel while in their custody, if such
wrong delivery, depredation, or loss be due to negligence
or disregard of the regulations. They are also liable on
their bond for any damage resulting to the Department
on account of such wrong delivery, depredation, or loss."
For many years the Regulations imposed possible or
positive liability upon postmasters for loss of registered
mail when the office had been robbed and lack of care
appeared; also the general provisions of § 940. And the
argument is that we cannot deduce from the altered language of § 291, Edition 1913, intention to relieve from the
strict liability theretofore imposed. But why the change
if it meant nothing? And may petitioners be subjected
to liability because of language found in ancient Regulations of which, probably, they had no knowledge?

DEAL v. UNITED STATES.
277

Opinion of the Court.

On the other hand is the suggestion that to hold postmasters responsible under § 291 for the loss of currency
from registered packages would produce an anomalous
situation, since this would leave the Postmaster General
with full power, under § 150, to relieve where money order funds are lost but with no such power where money
belonging to the United States is taken from a registered
package the contents of which had not been revealed.
Difficulties, of course, arise from the words "robbery"
in § 291 and "depredation upon" in § 940. Robbery,
accurately defined, is "the felonious and forcible taking
from the person of another, goods or money to any value,
by violence or putting him in fear." Bouvier's Law Dictionary; Jolly v. United States, 170 U. S. 402, 404. Depredation is "the act of plundering; a robbing; a pillaging." Century Dictionary. Apparently the Regulations
contained no definition of these terms. Generally, at
least, the word "robbery" conveys the idea of violence
and it is hardly appropriate to stealthy abstraction. One
may well doubt the application of § 291 in the circumstances here disclosed. The author of § 328, of the Regulations, Edition 1924, probably noted that larceny, burglary and robbery are distinct offenses.
The structure and language of § 291 are not wholly inconsistent with the theory that postmasters "shall be held
responsible for the loss" of property described by the
lines immediately preceding the quoted words; but for
"registered mail lost or rifled" "when a post office has
been robbed" they become responsible only if the "depredation or loss be due to negligence or disregard of the
Regulations."
Certainly the Regulations of 1913 are far from clear.
Considering the language and the arrangement of § 291
along with the general provisions of §940, and not forgetting that both were prepared by the Post Office Department, are subject to alteration, impose large respon-

