12

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

OHIO PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY v. OHIO

274 U. S.
EX REL.

FRITZ.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.

Nos. 210, 264. Argued March 10, 1927 -Decided April 11, 1927.

1. Of two writs of error to a state court, the one sued out pending
motion for rehearing and the other after rehearing denied, the
second may be relied on and the other dismissed. P. 12.
2. An ordinance of an Ohio village, in 1892, authorizing persons
named to use the streets, etc., for the purpose of erecting, maintaining and operating electric light wire mains and apparatus
complete for the distribution of electricity for light, heat and
power, granted an assignable franchise for an unlimited time and
not subject to termination at the mere will of the grantor. P. 13.
3. Subsequent legislation of the State destroying the assignability of
the franchise would be invalid under the Contract Clause of the
Federal Constitution. P. 14.
113 Oh. St. 325, reversed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Ohio
which affirmed a judgment in quo warranto ousting the
Public Service Company from use of the streets in the
Village of Orrville under a franchise to transmit and
distribute electricity.

Messrs. C. H. Henkel and Frank M. Cobb, with whom
Mr. Franklin L. Mazier was on the brief, for plaintiff in
error.
Messrs. Lyman R. Critchfield and Alton H. Etling, with
whom Mr. Joseph 0. Fritz, Prosecuting Attorney, was on
the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These two writs of error were sued out at different
stages of the same cause; the first while a timely application for rehearing was pending; the second after this

OHIO PUB. SERV. CO. v. FRITZ.
12

Opinion of the Court.

had been denied. Under the circumstances, plaintiff in
error may rely upon the latter writ and No. 210 will be
dismissed.
By an action in quo warranto the State of Ohio, upon
relation of the Prosecuting Attorney for Wayne County,
seeks to oust plaintiff in error, a corporation under her
laws, from use of the streets in the Village of Orrville.
The corporation has general power to transmit and distribute electric energy and current, and claims the privilege to operate there as assignee of rights granted to Gans
and Wilson and their successors by an ordinance of the
Village Council passed February 1, 1892.
The Supreme Court treated the judgment of the Court
of Appeals as establishing that the Orrville Light, Heat
and Power Company, immediate successor to Gans and
Wilson, acquired in 1893 the right to occupy the streets
which the ordinance of 1892 gave them. But it held the
franchise so acquired was revocable ten years after the
original grant and had been terminated by appropriate
village action. Also, that under the Act of the Legislature passed April 21, 1896, 92 Ohio Laws 204, this franchise could not lawfully be assigned to plaintiff in error's
predecessor during 1907 without the consent of the village,
which was not given. It accordingly affirmed the judgment of ouster pronounced by the Court of Appeals. 113
Oh. St. 325.
The ordinance of February 1, 1892, ordained--" Sec. 1.
That Aurel P. Gans and Mellville D. Wilson of Canal
Dover, Ohio, their associates, successors and assigns are
hereby authorized and empowered to use the streets, lanes,*
alleys, and avenues of the Village of Orrville for the purpose of erecting, maintaining and operating electric light
wire mains and apparatus complete for the distribution of
electricity for light, heat and power."
Subsequent sections inhibited unnecessary obstruction
of the streets, directed how the wires should be strung,

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
274 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

etc.; also that the grantee should furnish and the village
should use and pay for a designated number of lights
during a period of ten years at a specified rate, etc., etc.
The Ohio statute of 1896 applies to electric light and
power companies and provides, that "in order to subject
the same to municipal control alone, no person or company shall place, string, construct or maintain any line,
wire fixture or appliance of any kind for conducting electricity for lighting, heating or power purposes through any
street, alley, lane, square, place or land of any city,
village or town, without the consent of such municipality.
We think it quite clear that the conclusions of the court
below conflict with rulings heretofore announced by this
court.
In Northern Ohio Traction Co. v. Ohio, 245 U. S. 574,
we pointed out the state of the law in Ohio during 1892.
It is plain enough from what was there said that in our
view the franchise originally granted by the Village of
Orrville was for an unlimited time and not subject to termination at the mere will of the grantor.
Louisville v. Cumberland Telephone Co., 224 U. S. 649,
661, and Owensboro v. Cumberland Telephone Co., 230
U. S. 58, 75, are enough to show that the rights acquired
under the ordinance of 1892 were assignable without further consent by the village. If to enforce the Ohio statute of 1896 would destroy this right, it conflicts with the
provision of the federal Constitution-No State shall pass
any law impairing the obligation of contracts.
The judgment of the court below must be reversed and
the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
IR.

dissent.

JusmcE

ROLMES

and MR.

JuSnIc

BRANDEIs

