BEDFORD CO v. STONE CUTTERS ASSN.
29

37

Statement of the Case.

gation under it on the commission's own motion. But
the allegations of the complaint in matters of fact were
sufficient to authorize the commission to consider the case
under that provision as well as others; and this is enough.
To plead the law relied on, is no more necessary in a proceeding before the commission than it is in a judicial
proceeding.
Decree affirmed.
BEDFORD CUT STONE COMPANY ET AL. v. JOURNEYMEN STONE CUTTERS' ASSOCIATION OF
NORTH AMERICA ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 412. Argued January 18, 1927.-Decided April 11, 1927.
1. A combination or conspiracy of union stone-cutters to restrain
the interstate commerce of certain building-stone producers by
declaring their stone "unfair" and forbidding members of the
union to work upon it in building construction in other States, for
which it was extensively bought and used, and thereby coercing
or inducing local employers to refrain from purchasing it-is a
violation of the Anti-Trust Act. Pp. 45, 54.
2. The fact that the ultimate object was to unionize the cutters and
carvers of stone at the quarries of the producers did not make
the combination lawful. P. 47.
3. A private suit to enjoin a combination violative of the Sherman
Act will lie under ยง 16 of the Clayton Act, where there is a
dangerous probability of injury to the plaintiff, though no actual
injury has been suffered. P. 54.
9 F. (2d) 40, reversed.
CERTIORARI

(273 U. S. 677) to a decree of the Circuit

Court of Appeals which affirmed the District Court in
dismissing a bill brought by owners of limestone quarries
in Indiana to enjoin a combination alleged to violate the
Anti-Trust Act. The defendants were a general union

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Petitioners.

274 U. S.

of stone-cutters, and some of its constituent locals, and
their officers.
Messrs. Walter Gordon Merritt and Daniel Davenport,
with whom Mr. Charles Martindalewas on the brief, for
petitioners.
Under the common law most courts have held combinations of this character to be illegal. Purvis v. Local 500,
214 Pa. 348; Shine v. Fox Bros. Mfg. Co., 156 Fed. 357;
Lohse Sash & Door Co. v. Fuelle, 215 Mo. 421; Irving v.
Joint Dist. Council, 180 Fed. 896; Newton v. Erickson, 70
Misc. (N. Y.) 291; People v. McFarlan,43 Misc. (N. Y.)
591; Booth v. Burgess, 65 Atl. 226; Puringtonv. Hinchliff,
219 Ill. 159; Carlson v. Carpenters ContractorsAssn., 303
Ill. 331; Moores v. Bricklayers,21 Wly. Law Bull. (Ohio)
665; Piano Workers v. Piano Co., 24 Ill. App. 35; Loizeaux
Co. v. Carpenters, Union County, N. J., August 1923.
A few others have held the contrary. Parkinsonv. Building Trades Council, 154 Cal. 581; Bossert v. Dhuy, 221
N. Y. 342.
It is not necessary for complainants to show any common law combination to injure or maliciously interfere
with their business. On the contrary, they invoke the
provisions of a drastic statute, whereunder every artificial barrier between producer and consumer, which obstructs interstate commerce, is condemned because it
interferes with the rights of the purchasing public. This
combination of the defendants, which follows the products
of the complainants into various States and industrial
centers for the purpose of burdening or hampering their
use, comes squarely within the spirit and letter of this
drastic law. This is not a case of incidental injury or
restraint. Having failed to destroy the productive organization, the defendants' attention was turned to sales and
distribution. The sole, direct and immediate purpose,
whether you call it an end or a means, is to restrain trade.

BEDFORD CO v. STONE CUTTBRS ASSN.
37

39

Argument for Respondents.

so that, as a secondary result, complainants will be forced
to change production conditions.
The defendants do not seek a benefit which incidentally
restrains trade, but directly and unlawfully restrain trade
in order to obtain a benefit as a secondary result.
The facts, no essential of which is contradicted, present
a clear violation of the Sherman Act under authorities
which are indistinguishable. United States v. Brims, 272
U. S. 549; Duplex Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443. It has
long since been settled that the statute applies to combinations of workers as well as of employers (Loewe v. Lawlor,
208 U. S. 288), and it has been repeatedly applied to situations where the unions alone were active in prosecuting
the boycott, Duplex Co. v. Deering,supra.
There is no doubt that commerce can be unlawfully
restrained by interfering with the product before it starts
on its interstate journey, or after it arrives. United
States v. Brims, supra; Duplex Co. v. Deering, supra;
Loewe v. Lawlor, supra; Boyle v. United States, 259 Fed.
803.
A good motive or an entire absence of malice is no defense if the object is to restrain commerce. Thomson v.
Cayser, 243 U. S. 66; Sanitary Mfg. Co. v. Missouri, 226
U. S. 20; Int'l Harvester Co. v. Missouri, 234 U. S. 199.
The fact that a factory operates on an anti-union basis
does not justify the union in denying that company "unrestrained access to interstate commerce," and the right
to such access is not curtailed or limited by the failure of
the employers to reach an agreement with the union. If
the Government could enjoin the defendants under the
Anti-Trust Act, the complainants, who are injured by the
acts in question, may likewise do so.
Mr. Moses B. Lairy, with whom Messrs. Edward E.
Gates and Frederick Van Nuys were on the brief, for
respondents.

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Argument for Respondents.

274 U.S.

The facts before the Court are not sufficient to show a
violation of the Sherman Act by respondents or to render
them amenable to its provisions. The respondent organization is not engaged in trade or commerce in any commodity which is the subject of interstate trade, and the
evidence fails to show that the organization or any of its
members are in league with, or have any agreement, understanding or connection with any other person, corporation or association which is engaged in any business in
competition with that of petitioners. It can not be
inferred from the evidence that the refusal of the members
to work on the stone produced and shipped by petitioners
was prompted by a motive or purpose to cut down the
amount of Bedford stone moving in interstate commerce
and thus reduce the supply so as to lessen or stifle the
competition with other building stone and substitutes and
thereby increase the price of such other building stone
and substitutes therefor to the detriment of the public.
Uiiited States v. Brims, 272 U. S. 549, distinguished.
The purpose of respondents was not directed against
interstate commerce but their sole and only purpose, as
disclosed by the evidence was to unionize the cutters and
carvers of stone at the quarries. United Leather Workers v. Herkert Co., 265 U. S. 459. They were endeavoring only to carry out the purposes of their organization
in a legal manner; and, if their conduct in so doing had
any effect in reducing the supply moving in interstate
commerce, such effect was an incidental, indirect, and
remote obstruction to such commerce. Anderson v.
United States, 171 U. S. 604; Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S.
465; United Mine Workers v. Coronado Co., 259 U. S.
344; United Leather Workers v. Herkert Co., supra.
The modicum of injury attempted to be proven by
petitioners is denied. There is no intent proven to interfere with interstate commerce and the necessary effect of
such cessation of work does not bring the action of re-

BEDFORD CO v. STONE CUTTERS ASSN.
37

41

Opinion of the Court.

spondents within the prohibited combinations declared in
a long line of cases upon which the petitioner relies.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Petitioners, Bedford Cut Stone Company and 23 others,
all, with one or two exceptions, Indiana corporations,
are in the business of quarrying or fabricating, or both
quarrying and fabricating, Indiana limestone in what is
called the Bedford-Bloomington District in the State ofIndiana. Their combined investment is about $6,000,000,
and their annual aggregate sales amount 'to about
$15,000,000, more than 75% of which are made in interstate commerce to customers outside the State of Indiana. The Journeymen Stone Cutters' Association of
North America, sometimes called and hereinafter referred
to as the " General Union," is an association of mechanics
engaged in the stone-cutting trade. It has a constitution,
by-laws and officers, and an income derived from assessments upon its members. Its principal headquarters are
in Indiana, and it has a membership of about 5,000 persons, divided into over 150 local unions located in various
states and in Canada, each of such local unions having
its own by-laws, officers, and income derived from like
assessments. By virtue of his membership, each member
of these local unions is a member of the General Union.
The members of the General Union and allied locals
throughout the United States are stone cutters, carvers,
curb cutters, curb setters, bridge cutters, planermen,
lathemen, and carborundum moulding machine operators,
engaged in the cutting, patching and fabrication of all
natural and artificial stones; and the General Union
claims jurisdiction over all of them.
This suit was brought by petitioners against the General Union and some of its officers, and a number of
affiliated local unions and some of their officers, to enjoin

42

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U.S.

them from combining and conspiring together to commit,
and from committing, various acts in restraint of interstate commerce in violation of the federal Anti-Trust
Act, c. 647, 26 Stat. 209, and to petitioners' great and
irreparable damage. The federal district court for the
district of Indiana, after a hearing, refused a preliminary
injunction and, subsequently, on final hearing, entered a
aecree dismissing the bill for want of equity. On appeal,
this decree was affirmed by the court of appeals upon the
authority of an earlier opinion in the same case. 9 F.
(2d) 40.
The facts, so far as necessary to be stated, follow.
Limestone produced by petitioners is quarried and fabricated largely for building construction purposes. The
stone is first taken in rough blocks from the earth and,
generally, then cut into appropriate sizes and sometimes
planed. Part of this product is shipped directly to buildings, where it is fitted, trimmed and set in place, the
remainder being sold in the rough to contractors to be
fabricated. The stone sold in interstate commerce comes
into competition with other kinds of natural and artificial
stone. The principal producers of artificial stone are
unionized and are located outside of Indiana. Before
1921, petitioners carried on their work in Indiana under
written agreement with the General Union, but since that
time they have operated under agreements with unaffiliated unions, with the effect of closing their shops and
quarries against the members of the General Union and
its locals. Prior to the filing of the bill of complaint,
the General Union issued a notice to all its locals and
members, directing its members not to work on stone
"that has been started-planed, turned, cut, or semifinished-by men working in opposition to our organization," and setting forth that a convention of the union
had determined that "members were to rigidly enforce
the rule to keep off all work started by men working in

BEDFORD CO v. STONE CUTTERS ASSN.
37

43

Opinion of the Court.

opposition to our organization, with the exception of the
work of Shea-Donnelly, which firm holds an injunction
against our association." Stone produced by petitioners
by labor eligible to membership in respondents' unions
was declared "unfair"; and the president of the General
Union announced that the rule against handling such
stone was to be promptly enforced in every part of the
country. Most of the stone workers employed, outside
the State of Indiana, on the buildings where petitioners'
product is used, are members of the General Union; and
in most of the industrial centers, building constrftction is
on a closed shop union basis.
The rule requiring members to refrain from working
on "unfair" stone was persistently adhered to and effectively enforced against petitioner's product, in a large
number of cities and in many states. The evidence
shows many instances of interference with the use of
petitioners' stone by interstate customers, and expressions of apprehension on the part of such customers of
labor troubles if they purchased the stone. The President of the General Union himself testified, in effect,
that generally the men were living up to the order and
if it were shown to him that they did not do so in any
place he would see that they did. Members found working on petitioners' product, were ordered to stop and
threatened with a revocation of their cards if they continued; and the order of the General Union seems to have
been enforced even when it might be against the desire
of the local union. The transcript contains the record
of a hearing upon these matters before the Colorado
Industrial Commission, from which it appears that in
obedience to the order of the General Union its members
theretofore employed in Denver upon local building
stopped work because petitioners' product was being
used. The focal contractor was notified merely that the
men stopped work because the stone being used was

44

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

"unfair."

274 U.S.

The contractor personally had no trouble of
any kind with the union, and no other reason for the
strike than that stated above existed. B. F. James, a
member and an acting officer of the General Union testified that the local union in conducting its strike against
a local builder had no choice in the matter; that they
had their orders from the General Union with which
they complied; that there was no difference or feeling
whatever between the union and the local employer;
that the fight was with the Bedford stone producers and
they were trying to affect them througlf the local
employer.
"Q. And you people have no choice in the matter, you
are just complying with the orders from the Interna,
tional [General Union] ?
"A. We have no choice whatever.
"Q. Probably, if it was left up to you people here,
knowing this employer as you do, .why, your organization
here, local organization, would not strike on this man?
"A. I don't believe we would, no.
"Q. But you have got to follow the orders of your
International organization?
"A. Yes, sir."
The evidence makes plain that neither the General
Union nor the locals had any grievance against any of
the.builders-local purchasers of the stone-or any other
local grievance; and that the strikes were ordered and
conducted for the sole purpose of preventing the use
and, consequently, the sale and shipment in interstate
commerce, of petitioners' product, in order, by threatening the loss or serious curtailment of their interstate
market, to force petitioners to the alternative of coming
to undesired terms with the members of these unions.
In 1924, the president of the General Union said:
"The natural stone industry needs all the natural advantages it can possibly get, as there are so many kinds

BEDFORD CO v. STONE CUTTERS ASSN.
37

45

Opinion of the Court.

of substitutes to take the natural stone's place in the
building material market, that it behooves the natural
stone employers to do their utmost to see that no handicap is in its way, and it is a well known fact that when
any material is known to have labor grievances, it retards that material in the building market, as the building public do not want the stigma on their building that
it was built by 'unfair labor,' and they are also afraid
of stoppage of work and unnecessary disputes while their
building is in course of construction, and no one can
blame them for that."
In the Colorado inquiry, the witness James further testified that the strike order did not make any allowance
for stone theretofore ordered. "We were trying to affect
the Bedford people through the local man."
"Q. So the only person injured would be your own
local man, who is your employer, and your personal
friend, is that it?
"A. In a way. If it was finished that way, he would
be the only one hurt. We are not fighting on this Denver
man. We are trying to force these people through the
other subcontractors all over the country.

"Q. You are trying to force the Bedford to employ
members of your union to do this work?
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. And irrespective of who it hurts, that is the object?
"A. That is the object. It is done from our headquarters.
"Q. Mr. Fernald, or anybody else, they have got to get
out of the road, that is the object?
"A. We are trying to gain this point, irrespective of
who it hurts."
From a consideration of all the evidence, it is apparent
that the enforcement of the general order to strike against
petitioners' product could have had no purpose other than

40

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

that of coercing or inducing the local employers to refrain
from purchasing such product. To accept the assertion
made here to the contrary, would be to say that the order
and the effort to enforce it were vain and idle things without any rational purpose whatsoever. And indeed, on
the argument, in answer to a question from the bench,
counsel for respondents very frankly said that, unless petitioners' interstate trade in the so-called unfair stone
were injuriously affected, the strikes would accomplish
nothing.
That the means adopted to bring about the contem-"
plated restraint of commerce operated after physical
transportation had ended is immaterial. Loewe v. Lawlor,
208 U. S. 274, 301; Boyle v. United States, 259 Fed. 803,
805-806. The product against which the strikes were
directed, it is true, had come to rest in the respective
localities to which it had been shipped, so that it had
ceased to be a subject of interstate commerce, Industrial
Assn. v. United States, 268 U. S. 64, 78-79; and interferences for a purely local object with its use, with no
intention, express or implied, to restrain interstate commerce, it may be assumed, would not have been a violation of the Anti-Trust Act. Id., p. 77; United Mine
Workers v. Coronado Co., 259 U. S. 344, 410-411. But
these interferences were not thus in pursuit of a local
motive,-they had for their primary aim restraint of the
interstate sale and shipment of the commodity. Interstate commerce was the direct abject of attack "for the
sake of which the several specific acts and courses of conduct [were] done and adopted." And the restraint of
such commerce was the necessary consequence of the acts
and conduct and the immediate end in view. Swift &
Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375, 397. Prevention
of the use of petitioners' product, which, without more,
might have been a purely local matter, therefore, was only
a part of the conspiracy, which must be construed as an

BEDFORD CO v. STONE CUTTERS ASSN.
37

47

Opinion of the Court.

entirety; and, when so regarded, the local transactions
become a part of the general plan and purpose to destroy
or narrow petitioners' interstate trade. Montague & Co.
v. Lowry, 193 U. S. 38, 45-46. In other words, strikes
against the local use of the product were simply the means
adopted to effect the unlawful restraint. And it is this
result, not the means devised to secure it, which gives
character to the conspiracy.
Respondents' chief contention is that "their sole and
only purpose . . . was to unionize the cutters and car-

vers of stone at the quarries." And it may be conceded
that this was the ultimate end in view. But how was
that end to be effected? The evidence shows indubitably
that it was by an attack upon the use of the product in
other states to which it had been and was being shipped,
with the intent and purpose of bringing about the loss or
serious reduction of petitioners' interstate business, and
thereby forcing compliance with the demands of the
unions. And, since these strikes were directed against the
use of petitioners' product in other states, with the plain
design of suppressing or narrowing the interstate market,
it is no answer to say that the ultimate object to be accomplished was to bring about a change of conduct on the
part of petitioners in respect of the employment of union
members in Indiana. A restraint of interstate commerce
cannot be justified by the fact that the ultimate object of
the participants was to secure an ulterior benefit which
they might have been at liberty to pursue by means not
involving such restraint. Anderson v. Shipowners Association,272 U. S. 359; Duplex Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S.
443, 468; Ellis v. Inman, Poulsen & Co., 131 Fed. 182, 186.
The case, therefore, is controlled, not by United Mine
Workers v. Coronado Co., supra, and United Leather
Workers v. Herkert, 265 U. S. 457, as respondents contend, but by others presently to be discussed. In the
United Leather Workers case, it appeared that the strikes

48

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U.S.

were levelled only against production, and that the strikers
(p. 471) "did nothing which in any way directly interfered with the interstate transportation or sales of the
complainants' product;" and the decision rests upon the
ground that there was an entire absence of evidence or
circumstances to show that the defendants, in their conspiracy to coerce complainants, were directing their
,pscheme against interstate commerce. United Mine Workers v. Coronado Co., supra, pp. 408-409, is to the same
effect.
But in the second United Mine Workers case, 268 U. S.
295, 310, this court found sufficient evidence, even where
the strike was directed against production, of an intent
to restrain interstate commerce, and said:
"The mere reduction in the supply of an article to be
shipped in interstate commerce by the illegal or tortious
prevention of its manufacture or production is ordinarily
an indirect and remote obstruction to that commerce.
But when the intent of those unlawfully preventing the
manufacture or production is shown to be to restrain or
control the supply entering and moving in interstate commerce, or the price of it in interstate markets, their action
is a direct violation of the Anti-Trust Act."
In the present case, since the strikes were directed
against the use of the product in other states, with the
immediate purpose and necessary effect of restraining
future sales and shipments in interstate commerce, the
determinative decisions to be applied are those pointed
out in the United Leather Workers case, at p. 469:
"In Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274, and in Duplex Co.
v. Deering,254 U. S. 443, members of labor unions having
a controversy with their employers sought to embarrass
the sales by their employers of the product of their manufacture in other States by boycott and otherwise. They
were held guilty of a conspiracy against interstate com-

BEDFORD CO v. STONE CUTTERS ASSN.

49

Opinion of the Court.

37

merce because of their palpable intent to achieve their
purpose by direct obstruction of that commerce."
Respondents cite and rely upon Hopkins v. United
States, 171 U. S. 578, and Anderson v. United States, 171
U. S. 604. But of those cases we need say no more than
that they involved agreements which neither in purpose
nor in necessary result related to or had any direct effect
upon interstate commerce.
With a few changes in respect of the product involved,
dates, names and incidents, which would have no effect
upon the principles established, the opinion in Duplex
Co. v. Deeting, supra, might serve as an opinion in this
case. The object of the boycott there was precisely the
same as it is here, and the interferences with interstate
commerce, while they were more numerous and more drastic, did not differ in essential character from the interferences here. A short statement of the case will make
this clear.
The complainant was a manufacturer of printing
presses and conducted its business on the "open shop"
policy. There had been an unsuccessful strike to enforce
the "closed shop," the eight-hour day and the union scale
of wages. The strikers and the local organizations to
which they belonged were affiliated with an international
association having a membership of more than sixty thousand. They entered into a combination to restrain complainant's interstate trade by means of a "secondary boycott," in pursuance of which complainant's customers in
another state were warned not to purchase, install or
operate its printing presses and threatened with loss .and
sympathetic strikes should they do so. The strikers
threatened a trucking company with trouble if it should
haul the presses; incited employees of the trucking company and other men employed by complainant's customers to strike in order to interfere with the hauling and
5.3514o-28---4

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

installation of presses; notified repair shops not to do
repair work on the presses; threatened union men with
loss of union cards and the blacklist if they assisted in
installing the presses; and resorted to other methods of
preventing the sale and delivery of complainant's presses
in interstate commerce.
This court held that complainant's business of manufacturing presses and disposing of them in commerce was
a property right entitled to protection against unlawful
injury or interference; that unrestrained access to the
channels of interstate commerce was necessary for the
successful conduct of that business; and that the combination to hinder and obstruct such commerce by the means
indicated was in violation of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act,
as amended by the Clayton Act. The combination was
held to constitute a "secondary boycott," defined as "a
combination not merely to refrain from dealing with complainant, or to advise or by peaceful means persuade complainant's customers to refrain ('primary boycott'), but
to exercise coercive pressure upon such customers, actual
or prospective, in order to cause them to withhold or
withdraw patronage from complainant through fear of
loss or damage to themselves should they deal with it."
Whether either kind of boycott was lawful or unlawful
at common law was held to be immaterial, and the distinction between a primary and a secondary boycott was
only important to be considered upon the question of the
proper construction of the Clayton Act; and, as to that, it
was distinctly determined that the Clayton Act was not
intended to legalize the secondary boycott.
The court further held (p. 467-468) that by prior
decisions of this court, it had been settled that a restraint
of-interstate commerce produced by peaceable persuasion
was as much within the prohibition of the Anti-Trust Act
as one accomplished by force or threats of force, and that
there was nothing in ยง 20 of the Clayton Act (p. 473

BEDFORD CO v. STONE CUTTERS ASSN.
37

51

Opinion of the Court.

et seq.) which modified that rule as applied to the case
under review or justified a resort to the secondary boycott.
And it was said (p. 477) that the harmful consequences
of the opposite construction, adopted by the court below,
were illustrated by that case where an ordinary controversy in a manufacturing establishment, concerning terms
and conditions of employment there, had been held a sufficient occasion for imposing a general embargo upon the
products of the establishment and a nation-wide blockade
of the channels of interstate commerce against them. The
conclusion was reached that complainant was entitled to
an injunction under the Sherman Act as amended by the
Clayton Act, and that it was unnecessary to consider
whether a like result would follow under the common law
or local statutes. Finally, it is important to note (p. 478)
the scope of the injunction which was authorized. Not.
only were the association and its members to be restrained
from interfering with the sale, transportation, or delivery
in interstate commerce of the presses, but also from interfering with the "carting, installation, use, operation,
exhibition, display, or repairing of any such press or
presses, . . . and especially from using any force, threats,
command, direction, or even persuasion with the object or
having the effect of causing any person or persons to
decline employment, cease employment, or not seek
employment, or to refrain from work or cease working
under any person, firm, or corporation being a purchaser
or prospective purchaser of any printing press or presses
from complainant,

'

Loewe v. Lawlor, supra, also dealt with a secondary boycott. The case arose before the enactment of the Clayton
Act, but, in view of what has just been said, that is not
important. The defendants, certain labor organizations
and the members thereof, undertook to compel complainants to unionize their factory. Being unsuccessful, the
members of the labor organizations withdrew from corn-

52

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

plainants' service and endeavored to persuade others to
do the same. Defendants then declared a boycott against
hats manufactured by complainants found in the hands
of their customers in other states, with the purpose and
intent to destroy or curtail complainants' market in other
states and thereby coerce compliance with defendants'
demands. This was held (pp. 292-294) to be a combination falling "within the class of restraints of trade aimed
at compelling third parties and strangers involuntarily
not to engage in the course of trade except on conditions
that the combination imposes," and an unlawful restraint
of interstate commerce as defined by the Anti-Trust Act.
Referring to earlier cases, it was said (p. 297) that the
Anti-Trust Act had a broader application than the prohibition of restraints of trade unlawful at common law, and
that its effect was to declare illegal "every contract, combination or conspiracy, in whatever form, of whatever
nature, and whoever may be the parties to it, which
directly or necessarily operates in restraint of trade or
commerce among the several States."
Ifi United States v. Brims, 272 U. S. 549, a criminal
case, this court dealt with a combination of manufacturers, contractors and carpenters in Chicago, having for
its object the destruction of the competition of nonunion
mills in Wisconsin and elsewhere by the employment in
Chicago of union carpenters only, with the understanding
that they would refuse to install nonunion-made millwork. There was evidence tending to show that so-called
outside competition was cut down and thereby interstate
commerce directly and materially impeded, and that this
result was within the intention of the combination, which,
upon these facts, was held to be in violation of the AntiTrust Act.
In Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., 221 U. S. 418,
438-439, this court said that the restraining powers of the
courts extend to every device whereby commerce is ille-

BEDFORD CO v. STONE CUTTERS ASSN.
37

53

Opinion of the Court.

gaily restrained; and that-" To hold that the restraint of
trade under the Sherman anti-trust act, or on general
principles of law, could be enjoined, but that the means
through which the restraint was accomplished could not
be enjoined would be to render the law impotent."
In cases arising outside the Anti-Trust Act, involving
strikes like those here under review against so-called
unfair products, there is a sharp conflict of opinion. On
the one hand, it is said that such a strike is justified on
the ground of self-interest; that the injury to the producer is inflicted, not maliciously, but in self-defense;
that the refusal of the producer to deal with the union
and to observe its standards threatens the interest of all
its members and the members of the affiliated locals; and
that a strike against the unfair material is a mere recognition of this unity of interest, and in refusing to work
on such material the union is only refusing to aid in its
own destruction. The opposite view is illustrated by such
cases as Toledo, etc., Ry. Co. v. Pennsylvania Co., 54 Fed.
730; Thomas v. Cincinnati,etc., Ry. Co., 62 Fed. 803, 817,
et seq.; Moores v. Bricklayers' IUnion, 23 Wkly. Cin. Law
Bull. 48 (affirmed by the Supreme Court of Ohio without
opinion); Burnham v. Dowd, 217 Mass. 351; Purvis v.
United Brotherhood,214 Pa. St. 348; Booth & Brother v.
Burgess, 72 N. J. Eq. 181, 188, 196; Piano & Organ
Workers v. P. & 0. Supply Ca., 124 Ill. App. 353.
But with this conflict we have no concern in the present
case. The question which it involves was presented and
considered in the Duplex Co. case, supra, as the prevailing
and the dissenting opinions show; and there it was plainly
held that the point had no bearing upon the enforcement
of the Anti-Trust Act, and that since complainant had a
clear right to an injuiction under that Act as amended by
the Clayton Act, it was "unnecessary to consider whether
a like result would follow under the common law or local
statutes."

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

Whatever may be said as to the motives of the respondents or their general right to combine for the purpose
of redressing alleged grievances of their fellow craftsmen
or of protecting themselves or their organizations, the
present combination deliberately adopted a course of conduct which directly and substantially curtailed, or threatened thus to curtail, the natural flow in interstate commerce of a very large proportion of the building limestone
production of the entire country, to the gravely probable
disadvantage of producers, purchasers and the public; and
it must be held to be a combination in undue and unreasonable restraint of such commerce within the meaning of
the Anti-Trust Act as interpreted by this court. An act
which lawfully might be done by one, may when done by
many acting in concert take on the form of a conspiracy
and become a public wrong, and may be prohibited if the
result be hurtful to the public or to individuals against
whom such concerted action is directed, GrenadaLumber
Co. v. Mississippi,217 U. S. 433, 440; and any suggestion
that such concerted action here may .be justified as a
necessary defensive measure is completely answered by
the words of this court in Eastern States Lumber Ass'n v.
United States, 234 U. S. 600, 613, that "Congress, with
the right to control the field of interstate commerce, has
so legislated as to prevent resort to practices which unduly restrain competition or unduly obstruct the free flow
of such commerce, and private choice of means must yield
to the national authority thus exerted."
The record does not disclose whether petitioners at the
time of bringing suit had suffered actual injury; but that
is not material. An intent to restrain interstate commerce being shown, it is enough to justify equitable interposition by injunction if there be a dangerous probability
that such injury will happen; and this clearly appears.
The Anti-Trust Act "directs itself against that dangerous
probability as well as against the completed result." Swift

BEDFORD CO v. STONE CUTTERS ASSN.
37

STONE,

55

J., concurring.

& Co. v. United States, supra, p. 396; Vicksburg Waterworks Co. v. Vicksburg, 185 U. S. 65, 82; Thomson Machine Co. v. Brown, 89 N. J. Eq. 326, 328.
From the foregoing review, it is manifest that the acts
and conduct of respondents fall within the terms of the
Anti-Trust Act; and petitioners are entitled to relief by
injunction under ยง 16 of the Clayton Act, c. 323, 38 Stat.
730, 737, by which they are authorized to sue for such relief "against threatened loss or damage by a violation of
the anti-trust laws," etc. The strikes, ordered and carried
out with the sole object of preventing the use and installation of petitioners' product in other states, necessarily
threatened to destroy or narrow petitioners' interstate
trade by taking from them their customers. That the organizations, in general purpose and in and of themselves,
were lawful and that the ultimate result aimed at may not
have been illegal in itself, are beside the point. Where
the means adopted are unlawful, the innocent general
character of the organizations adopting them or,the lawfulness of the ultimate end sought to be attained, cannot
serve as a justification.
Decree reversed.
MR.

JUSTIcE SANFORD, concurring.

I concur in this result upon the controlling authority
of Duplex Company v. Deering,254 U. S. 443, 478, which,
as applied to the ultimate question in this case, I am
unable to distinguish.
The separate opinion of MR. JusTIcE Sm0NE.
As an original proposition, I should have doubted
whether the Sherman Act prohibited a labor union from
peaceably refusing to work upon material produced by
non-union labor or by a rival union, even though inter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
BRANDEIS and HOLMES,

274 U. S.

JJ., dissenting.

state commerce were affected. In the light of the policy
adopted by Congress in the Clayton Act, with respect to

organized labor, and in the light of Standard Oil Co. v.
United States, 221 U. S. 1; United States v. American
Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106, 178-180, I should not have
thought that such action as is now complained of was
to be regarded as an unreasonable and therefore prohibited restraint of trade. But in Duplex Printing Press
Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443, these views were rejected
by a majority of the court and a decree was authorized
restraining in precise terms any agreement not to work
or refusal to work, such as is involved here. Whatever
additional facts there may have been in that case, the
decree enjoined the defendants from using "even persuasion with the object or having the effect of causing
any person or persons to decline employment, cease employment, or not seek employment, or to refrain from
work or cease working under any person, firm, or corporation being a purchaser or prospective purchaser of any
printing press or presses from complainant,

.

. ." (p.

478). These views, which I should not have hesitated
to apply here, have now been rejected again largely on
the authority of the Duplex case. For that reason alone,
I concut with the majority.
MR. JuSTIcE BR.wDEIS,

dissenting.

The constitution of the Journeymen Stone Cutters'
Association provides: "No member of this Association
shall cut, carve or fit any material that has been cut by
men working in opposition to this Association." For
many years, the plaintiffs had contracts with the Association under which its members were employed at their
several quarries and works. In 1921, the plaintiffs refused to renew the contracts because certain rules or conditions proposed by the Journeymen were unacceptable.

BEDFORD CO v. STONE CUTTERS ASSN.
37

BRANDEIS

and

HOLMES,

57

JJ., dissenting.

Then came a strike. It was followed by a lockout, the
organization by the plaintiffs of a so-called independent
union, and the establishment of it at their plants. Repeated efforts to adjust the controversy proved futile.
Finally, the Association urged its members working on
buildings in other States to observe the above provision
of its constitution. Its position was "that if employers
will not employ our members in one place, we will decline
to work for them in another, or to finish any work that
has been started or partly completed by men these employers are using to combat our organization."
The trial court dismissed the bill. The United States
Circuit Court of Appeals affirming the decree said:
"After long negotiations and failure to reach a new
working agreement, the union officers ordered that none
of its members should further cut stone which had been
partly cut by non-union labor, with the result that on
certain jobs in different states stone cutters, who were
members of the union, declined to do further cutting upon
such stone. Where, as in some cases, there were few or
no local stone cutters except such as belonged to the
union, the completion of the buildings was more or less
hindered by the order, the manifest object of which was
to induce appellants to make a contract with the union
for employment of only union stonecutters in the Indiana
limestone district. It does not appear that the quarrying of stone, or sawing it into blocks, or the transportation of it, or setting it in buildings, or any other building
operation, was sought to be interfered with, and no actual
or threatened violence appears, no picketing, no boycott,
and nothing of that character."
If, in the struggle for existence, individual workingmen
may, under any circumstances, co-operate in this way for
self-protection even though the interstate trade of another
is thereby restrained, the lower courts were clearly right
in denying the injunction sought by plaintiffs. I have

58

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
BRANDEIS and HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

274 U. S.

no occasion to consider whether the restraint, which was
applied wholly intrastate, became in its operation a direct
restraint upon interstate commerce. For it has long been
settled that only unreasonable restraints are prohibited
by the Sherman Law.- Standard Oil Co. v. United States,
221 U. S. 1, 56-58; United States V. American Tobacco
Co., 221 U. S. 106, 178-180; Chicago Board of Trade v.
United States, 246 U. S. 231, 238; United States v. Trenton Potteries Co., 273 U. S. 392, 396. Compare United
States v. Terminal Ass'n, 224 U. S. 383; United States v.
Reading Co., 226 U. S. 324, 369. And the restraint imposed was, in my opinion, a reasonable one. The
Act does not establish the standard of reasonableness.
What is reasonable must be determined by the application of principles of the common law, as administered
in federal courts unaffected by state legislation or
decisions. Compare Duplex Printing Co. v. Deering,
254, U. S. 443, 466. Tested by these principles, the propriety of the unions' conduct can hardly be doubted by
one who believes in the organization of labor.
Neither the individual stonecutters nor the unions had
any contract with any of the plaintiffs or with any of
their customers. So far as concerned the plaintiffs and
their customers, the individual stonecutters were free
either to work or to abstain from working on stone which
had been cut at the quarries by members of the employers' union. So far as concerned the Association, the
individual stonecutter was not free. He had agreed,
when he became a member, that he would not work on
stone "cut by men working in opposition to" the Association. It was in duty bound to urge upon its members
observance of the obligation assumed. These cut stone
companies, who alone are seeking relief, were its declared
'The contrary view was unsuccessfully contended for by Mr. Justice Harlan, dissenting, in Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221
U. S. 1, 85-100.

BEDFORD CO v. STONE CUTTERS ASSN.
37

BRANDEIS

and

HOLMES,

59

JJ., dissenting.

enemies. They were seeking to destroy it. And the
danger was great.
The plaintiffs are not weak employers opposed by a
mighty union. They have large financial resources. Together, they ship 70 per cent. of all the cut stone in the
country. They are not isolated concerns. They had combined in a local employers' organization. And their organization is affiliated with the national employers' organization, called "International Cut Stone & Quarrymen's Association." Standing alone, each of the 150
Journeymen's locals is weak. The average number of
members in a local union is only 33. The locals are
widely scattered throughout the country. Strong employers could destroy a local "by importing scabs" from
other cities. And many of the builders by whom the
stonecutters were employed in different cities, are strong.
It is only through combining the 5,000 organized stonecutters in a national union, and developing loyalty to it,
that the individual stonecutter anywhere can protect his

own job.
The manner in which these individual stonecutters exercised their asserted right to perform their union duty
by refusing to finish stone "cut by men working in opposition to" the Association was confessedly legal. They
were innocent alike of trespass and of breach of contract.
They did not picket. They refrained from violence, intimidation, fraud and threats. They refrained from obstructing otherwise either the plaintiffs or their customers
in attempts to secure other help. They did not plan a
boycott against any of the plaintiffs or against builders
who used the plaintiffs' product. On the contrary, they
expressed entire willingness to cut and finish anywhere
any stone quarried by any of the plaintiffs, except such
stone as had been partially" cut by men working in opposition to" the Association. A large part of the plaintiffs'
product consisting of blocks, slabs and sawed work was not

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
BRANDEIS

and HOLMES, JJ., dissenting.

274 U. S.

affected by the order of the union officials. The individual
stonecutter was thus clearly innocent of wrongdoing, unless it was illegal for him to agree with his fellow craftsmen to refrain from working on the "scab "-cut stone
because it was an article of interstate commerce.
The manner in which the Journeymens' unions acted
was also clearly legal. The combination complained of
is the co-operation of persons wholly of the same craft,
united in a national union, solely for self-protection. No
outsider-be he quarrier, dealer, builder or laborer-was
a party to the combination. No purpose was to be subserved except to promote the trade interests of members
of the Journeymens' Association. There was no attempt
by the unions to boycott the plaintiffs. There was no
attempt to seek the aid of members of any other craft,
by a sympathetic strike or otherwise. The contest was
not a class struggle. It was a struggle between particular
employers and their employees. But the controversy out
of which it arose, related, not to specific grievances, but
to fundamental matters of union policy of general application throughout the country. The national Association had the duty to determine, so far as its members were
concerned, what that policy should be. It deemed the
maintenance of that policy a matter of vital interest to
each member of the union. The duty rested upon it to
enforce its policy by all legitimate means. The Association, its locals and officers were clearly innocent of wrongdoing, unless Congress has declared that for union officials
to urge members to refrain from working on stone "cut
by men working in opposition" to it is necessarily illegal
if thereby the interstate trade of another is restrained.
The contention that earlier decisions of this Court compel the conclusion that it is illegal seems to me unfounded.
The cases may support the claim that, by such local abstention from work, interstate trade is restrained. But ex-

BEDFORD CO v. STONE CUTTERS ASSN.
37

61

BRANDms and HOLMES, JJ., dissenting.

amination of the facts in those cases makes clear that they
have no tendency whatsoever to establish that the restraint imposed by the unions in the case at bar is unreasonable. The difference between the simple refraining
from work practiced here, and the conduct held unreasonable in Duplex PrintingPress Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S.
443, appears from a recital in that opinion of the defendants' acts:
"The acts embraced the following, with others: warning customers that it would be better for them not to
purchase, or having purchased not to install, presses made
by complainant, and threatening them with loss should
they do so; threatening customers with sympathetic
strikes in other trades; notifying a trucking company
usually employed by customers to haul the presses not
to do so, and threatening it with trouble if it should; inciting employees of the trucking company, and other men
employed by customers of complainant, to strike against
their respective employers in order to interfere with the
hauling and installation of presses, and thus bring pressure to bear upon the customers; notifying repair shops
not to do repair work on Duplex presses; coercing union
men by threatening them with loss of union cards and
with being blacklisted as 'scabs' if they assisted in installing the presses; threatening an exposition company
with a strike if it permitted complainant's presses to be
exhibited; and resorting to a variety of other modes of
preventing the sale of presses of complainant's manufacture in or about New York City, and delivery of them in
interstate commerce, such as injuring and threatening to
injure complainant's customers and prospective customers, and persons concerned in hauling, handling, or
installing the presses." (pp. 463-4.)
The character of the acts held in Duplex PrintingPress
Co. v. Deering to constitute unreasonable restraint is fur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
BaRNDms and

HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

274 U. S.

ther shown by the scope of the injunction there prescribed
(pp. 478-479):
"There should be an injunction against defendants and
the associations represented by them, and all members of
those associations, restraining them, according to the
prayer of the bill, from interfering or attempting to interfere with the sale, transportation, or delivery in interstate commerce of any printing press or presses manufactured by complainant, or the transportation, carting, installation, use, operation, exhibition, display, or repairing of any such press or presses, or the performance of any
contract or contracts made by complainant respecting the
sale, transportation, delivery, or installation of any such
press or presses, by causing or threatening to cause loss,
damage, trouble, or inconvenience to any person, firm, or
corporation concerned in the purchase, transportation,
carting, installation, use, operation, exhibition, display or
repairing of any such press or presses, or the performance
of any such contract or contracts; and also and especially
from using any force, threats, command, direction, or even
persuasion with the object or having the effect of causing
any person or persons to decline employment, cease employment, or not seek employment, or to refrain from work
or cease working under any person, firm, or corporation
being a purchaser or prospective purchaser of any printing press or presses from complainant, or engaged in hauling, carting, delivering, installing, handling, using, operating, or repairing any such press or presses for any customer of complainant. Other threatened conduct by defendants or the associations they represent, or the members of such associations, in furtherance of the secondary
boycott should be included in the injunction according to
the proofs."
The difference between the facts here involved and
those in the Duplex case does not lie only in the character
of the acts complained of. It lies also in the occasion and

BEDFORD CO v. STONE CUTTERS ASSN.
37

BRANDEIS and

HOLMES,

63

JJ., dissenting.

purpose of the action taken and in the scope of the combination. The combination*there condemned was not, as
here, the co-operation for self-protection only of men in
a single craft. It was an effort to win by invoking the
aid of others, both organized and unorganized, not concerned in the trade dispute. The conduct there condemned was not, as here, a mere refusal to finish particular
work begun "by men working in opposition to" the union.
It was the institution of a general boycott, not only of the
business of the employer, but of the businesses of all who
should participate in the marketing, installation or exhibition of its product. The conduct there condemned was
not, as here, action taken for self-protection against an opposing union installed by employers to destroy the regular
union with which they long had had contracts. The action
in the Duplex case was taken in an effort to unionize an
open shop. Moreover, there the combination of defendants was aggressive action directed against an isolated employer. Here it is defensive action of workingmen
directed against a combination of employers. The serious
question on which the Court divided in the Duplex case
was not whether the restraint imposed was reasonable. It
was whether the Clayton Act had forbidden federal courts
to issue an injunction in that class of cases. See p. 464.
In Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274; Gompers v. Bucks
Stove Co., 221 U. S. 418; and Lawlor v. Loewe, 235 U. S.
522, the conduct held unreasonable was not, as here, a
refusal to finish a product partly made by members of an
opposing union. It was invoking the power of the consumer as a weapon of offensive warfare. There, a general boycott was declared of the manufacturer's product.
And the boycott was extended to the businesses of both
wholesalers and retailers who might aid in the marketing
of the manufacturer's product. Moreover, the boycott
was to be effected, not by the co-operation merely of the
few members of the craft directly and vitally interested

64

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
BRANDEIS

and

HOLMES, JJ.,

dissenting.

274 U. S.

in the trade-dispute, but by the aid of the vast forces of
organized labor affiliated with them through the American
Federation of Labor.
In United States v. Brims, 272 U. S. 549, the combination complained of was not the co-operation merely
of workingmen of the same craft. It was a combination
of manufacturers of millwork in Chicago, with building
contractors who cause such work to be installed, and the
unions whose members are to be employed. Moreover
the purpose of the combination was not primarily to
further the interests of the union carpenters. The immediate purpose was to suppress competition with the
Chicago manufacturers. As this Court said:
"The respondent manufacturers found their business
seriously impeded by the competition of material made
by nonunion mills located outside of Illinois.
They wished to eliminate the competition of Wisconsin
and other nonunion mills which were paying lower wages
and consequently could undersell them. . . . The
local manufacturers, relieved from the competition that
came through interstate commerce, increased their output and profits; they gave special discounts to local contractors; more union carpenters secured employment in
Chicago and their wages were increased. These were
the incentives which brought about the combination."
In United Mine Workers v. Coronado Co., 259 U. S.
344; 268 U. S. 295; United Leather Workers v. Herkert,
265 U. S. 457; Industrial Association v. United States,
268 U. S. 64, as in Hopkins v. United States, 171 U. S.
578; Anderson v. United States, 171 U. S. 604; Montague
v. Lowry, 193 U. S. 38, and Swift & Co. v. United States,
196 U. S. 375, the questions put in issue were not the
reasonableness of the restraint, but whether the restraint
was of interstate commerce.
Members of the Journeymen Stone Cutters' Association
could not work anywhere on stone which had been cut
at the quarries by "men working in opposition" to it,

