OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

274 U. S.

ness, 269 U. S. 71, is not, as argued, that the plaintiff in
Hicks v. Guinness was in the United States, but that, as
the Court understood the facts, the debt was payable in
New York and subject to American law, so that upon a
breach of the contract there arose a present liability in
dollars. As the present debt was governed wholly by the
law of Austria-Hungary on April 1, 1920, when the deposit was made, it was discharged by the deposit which
was substituted as the only object of the creditor's claim.
An elaborate argument is made that the original contract
between the parties was dissolved by the war. Such considerations are immaterial when it is realized that in any
view of all that had happened the only obligations of the
Wiener Bank-Verein were those imposed by the law of
Austria-Hungary, and that if that law discharged the debt
the debt was discharged everywhere.
The plaintiffs argue that they have rights under the
Treaty of August 24, 1921, between the United States and
Austria. But the short answer is that their rights against
the Bank were ended before that treaty was made. They
also urge that this is a suit under The Trading with the
Enemy Act. But so was Deutsche Bank v. Humphrey.
That Act did not turn the Austrian into an American debt
and impose a new and different obligation upon the
Austrian Bank.
Decree affirmed.
WESTFALL v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THUE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 766.

Argued March 8, 9, 1927.-Decided May 16, 1927.

1. Section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended June 21, 1917,
is constitutional in so far as it provides that state banks which
have joined the Federal Reserve System, their officers, etc., shall

WESTFALL v. UNITED STATES.
256

Opinion of the Court.

be subject to the penalties of Rev. Stats. ยง 5209, which punishes
misapplications, etc., of a bank's funds. P. 258.
2. The acts thus made criminal may be punishable also under the laws
of the State. P. 258.
3. It is not a condition to the power of Congress to punish such acts
that they result in any loss to the Federal Reserve Banks. P. 258.
4. When necessary in order to prevent an evil, the law may embrace
more than the precise thing to be prevented. P. 259.
5. Congress may employ state corporations, with their consent, as
federal instrumentalities and make frauds that impair their efficiency
crimes. P. 259.
RESPONSE to a question certified by the Circuit Court
of Appeals arising upon a review of convictions under
indictments for aiding and procuring misapplication of

state bank funds and conspiracy to misapply them.

Mr. D. S. Face, with whom Mr. Harry D. Jewell was
on the brief, for Westfall.
Solicitor General Mitchell, with whom Assistant Attorney General Luhring, Mr. Harry S. Ridgely, Attorney in
the Department of Justice, and Mr. Walter Wyatt, General Counsel, Federal Reserve Board, were on the brief,
for the United States.
MR. JusTIcE HOLMEs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Westfall was convicted under two indictments, the
first of which charged him with aiding and procuring the

branch manager of a State bank which was a member of
the Federal Reserve System to misapply the funds of
the bank. The second indictment charged a conspiracy
to misapply the funds of the bank between the same and
other parties. Both were based upon the issuing a fraudulent certificate of deposit for ten thousand dollars and
the paying the same from the funds of the bank. The
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit certifies this
55514-28 -17

258

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

question: "Is the provision of section 9, chapter 6, of
the Federal Reserve Act of December 23, 1913 [38 Stat.
259, 260,] as amended June 21, 1917 [c. 32, ยง3; 40
Stat. 232] and July 1, 1922 constitutional in so far as it
provides that 'such banks and the officers, agents and
employees thereof shall also be subject to the provisions
of and the penalties prescribed by Section 5209 of the
Revised Statutes?'" The amendment of July 1, 1922,
referred to is, we presume, c. 274; 42 Stat. 821. It has
no immediate bearing upon the question propounded and
as it is not relied upon in argument we shall leave it on
one side.
It is not disputed that Rev. Stat. ยง5209, if applicable,
punishes the bank manager, and those who aided and
abetted him in his crime. Coffin v. United States, 156
U. S. 432, 447. The argument is that Congress has no
power to punish offences against the property rights of
State banks. It is said that the statute is so broad that
it covers such offences when they could not result in any
loss to the Federal Reserve Banks, and it is suggested
that if upheld the Act will invalidate similar statutes
of the States. This argument is well answered by Hiatt
v. United States, 4 F. (2d) 374, 377. Certiorari denied.
268 U. S. 704. Of course an act may be criminal under
the laws of both jurisdictions. United States v. Lanza,
260 U. S. 377, 382. And if a state bank chooses to come
into the System created by the United States, the United
States may punish acts injurious to the System, although
done to a corporation that the State also is entitled to
protect. The general proposition is too plain to need
more than statement. That there is such a System and
that the Reserve Banks are interested in the solvency
and financial condition of the members also is too obvious
to require a repetition of the careful analysis presented
by the Solicitor General. The only suggestion that may
deserve a word is that the statute applies indifferently

