OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Counsel for Parties.

274 U. S.

ion that the reasoning of Burdick v. United States, 236
U. S. 79, is not to be extended to the present case. The
other questions certified become immaterial as we answer the first question: Yes.
The CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in this case.

NEW YORK v. ILLINOIS AND SANITARY
DISTRICT OF CHICAGO.
IN

EQUITY.

No. 14, Orig. Argued April 25, 1927.-Decided May 31, 1927.
1. In a bill for an injunction to restrain diversions of water from
the Great Lakes, on the ground that the diversions will impair
navigable capacity of the lakes and connected rivers and thereby
obstruct and burden commerce to the serious injury of the plaintiff
State, a paragraph setting up possible interference with waterpower development, but not showing any existing or definitely projected use of the waters for that purpose with which the diversions
might interfere, should be stricken from the bill, without prejudice.
P. 490.
2. A suit for an injunction must rest on actual or presently threatened

injury. Id.
3. This Court cannot consider abstract questions. Id.

MOTION to strike a paragraph from the plaintiff's bill,
sustained.
Mr. James M. Beck, with whom Messrs. James Hamilton Lewis, Oscar E. Carlstrom, Attorney General of Illinois, Cyrus Dietz, Hugh S. Johnson, Maclay Hoyne,
George F. Barrett, and Edmund D. Adcock were on the
brief, for the defendants, in support of the motion.
Mr. Randall J. Le Boeuf, with whom Mr. Albert Ot-

tinger was on the brief, for plaintiff, in opposition thereto.

NEW YORK v. ILLINOIS.
488

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusricB VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This is a bill in equity brought in this Court by the
State of New York against the State of Illinois and the
Sanitary District of Chicago to enjoin them from continuing a very substantial diversion of water from Lake
Michigan. The character and purpose of the diversion
are shown in Sanitary District of Chicago v. United
States, 266 U. S. 405, and do not call for special comment
now. The greater part of the bill proceeds on the theory
that the diversion impairs the navigable capacity of the
Great Lakes and the rivers leading from one lake to
another and then to the Atlantic Ocean, and thereby
obstructs and burdens commerce over these waterways
to the serious injury of the plaintiff State and her people.
To this part of the bill the defendants have answered,
and evidence on the issues so framed has been or is being
taken before a special master. The bill, in its third paragraph, attempts to set up another injury from the diversion. This paragraph has not been answered, but is
assailed by a motion to strike it out. The Court has heard
oral argument on the motion and will now rule on it.
The third paragraph of the bill apparently proceeds
on the theory that the diversion may interfere with or
prevent the use of the waters of the Niagara and St.
Lawrence Rivers by the plaintiff State and her citizens
for the development of power. But it does not show that
there is any present use of the waters for such purposes
which is being or will be disturbed; nor that there is any
definite project for so using them which is being or will
be affected. The waters are international and their use
for developing power may require the assent of the
Dominion of Canada and the United States. No consent
of either is shown. The suit is one for an injunction, a
form of relief which must rest on an actual or presently

