ZIMMERMANN v. SUTHERLAND.
225

253

Syllabus.

the answer to the argument must be, that it is not so
written and that the language is easily capable of being
construed in accordance with the Congressional intention.

What we have said leads to the conclusion that we must
reverse the Court of Customs Appeals.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

is unable to discern any

satisfactory answer to the forceful opinion by the Court
of Customs Appeals, and thinks that its judgment should
be affirmed. In his view, they rightly accepted the statute as written by Congress; the contrary course would
have required them to usurp the functions of a legislator
and desert those of an expounder of the lav.
Nearly one hundred years ago Mr. Justice Story announced the fundamental doctrine which no court should
forget. "Arguments drawn from impolicy or inconvenience ought here to be of no weight. The only sound
principle is to declare, ita lex scripta est, to follow, and
to obey. Nor, if a principle so just and conclusive could
be overlooked, could there well be found a more unsafe
guide in practice than mere policy and convenience."

ZIMMERMANN ET AL. V. SUTHERLAND, ALIEN
PROPERTY CUSTODIAN, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 180. Argued March 1, 1927.-Decided May 16, 1927.
In a suit under the Trading with the Enemy Act to satisfy a claim of
the plaintiffs as depositors against an Austrian bank (whose property in this country was seized under the Act), the debt being due

254

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

and payable in Austria and governed by the Austrian law, a payment into court there, which by that law operated as a discharge,
is a complete defense. P. 255.
7 F. (2d) 443, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
in a suit brought under the Trading with the Enemy Act
by depositor-creditors of an Austrian bank, property of
which in this country had been seized by the Alien Property Custodian during the war. The District Court
awarded a recovery at the rate of exchange on August 12,
1919. The court below reversed this, holding that a
deposit of kronen in Austria, April 1, 1920, had operated
as a discharge.
Mr. Charles E. Hughes, with whom Messrs. Joseph M.
Hartfield and Hamilton Vreeland, Jr., were on the brief,
for appellants.
Mr. Samuel R. Wachtell for appellee Wiener BankVerein.
Solicitor General Mitchell, Assistant Attorney General
Farnum, and Mr. Dean Hill Stanley, Special Assistant
to the Attorney General, for appellees Sutherland, Alien
Property Custodian, and White, Treasurer of the United
States, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE HoL

s delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit to reach and apply property in the hands
of the Alien Property Custodian or the Treasurer of the
United States, seized as property of the Wiener BankVerein, as allowed by the amendment of The Trading
with the Enemy Act of June 5, 1920, c. 241; 41 Stat.
977. The appellants were the plaintiffs. Before the late
war they were depositors in the Wiener Bank-Verein, and
on April 6, 1917, had on deposit 2,063,799.03 kronen,

ZIMMERMANN v. SUTHERLAND.
253

Opinion of the Court.

The war intervened and after the cessation -of hostilities
the plaintiffs demanded the amount of said kronen on
deposit as of April 6, 1917, at the average call rate of
exchange for the month preceding the outbreak of war
between the United States and Austria Hungary, viz.,
11.18 United States cents for each Austrian krone. The
General Civil Law of Austria, ยง 1425, provided that-If
a debt could not be paid because of dissatisfaction with
the offer or other important reasons the debtor might
deposit in court the subject matter in dispute, and that if
legally carried out and if the creditor was informed, this
measure should discharge the debtor and place the subject matter delivered at the risk of the creditor. The
creditor not being satisfied with what the Bank was willing to do, the Bank, on April 1, 1920, deposited the amount
stated to be due in the proper court, with interest at 2
per cent., and notified the plaintiffs. It relies upon the
deposit as a defence, and the Circuit Court of Appeals
held it to be one, 7 Fed. (2d) 443, overruling the decision
of the District Court which allowed a recovery at the
rate of exchange on August 12, 1919, on the ground that
the plaintiffs showed that they wanted their money, although they made no adequate demand, on that day.
2 F. (2d) 629.
The decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals was right
and in view of the recent case of Deutsche Bank Filiale
Nurnberg v. Humphrey, 272 U. S. 517, does not need
extended reasoning. Here as there the debt was due and
payable in the foreign country. The only primary obligation was that created by the law of Austria-Hungary
and if by reason of an attachment of property or otherwise the courts of the United States also gave a remedy
the only thing that they could do with justice was to
enforce the obligation as it stood, not to substitute something else that seemed to them about fair. The distinction between the Deutsche Bank case and Hicks v. Guin-

