614

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Counsel for Parties.

274 U. S.

STEWART & COMPANY v. RIVARA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

No. 290. Argued April 22, 1927.-Decided May 31, 1927.
Section 65 of the New York Personal Property Law, provides that,
whenever articles sold on condition that the title shall remain in
the vendor until payment of the price are retaken by the vendor,
they shall be retained for thirty days during which the vendee may
comply with the contract and recover the property; that after
expiration of that period, if the contract is not complied with, the
vendor may cause the articles to be sold at public auction; and
that, unless sold within thirty days after expiration of such period,
the vendee may receive the amount paid on the articles under the
contract. Held, as applied to a vessel documented as a vessel of
the United States and enrolled for the coastwise trade:
1. The state law does not interfere with the use of such vessels
as instrumentalities of interstate commerce. P. 617.
2. In a suit by a vendee against a vendor to recover the amount
paid on account of purchase price, the question whether the statute
might conflict with enforcement of maritime liens of third parties
in the federal admiralty jurisdiction, is not involved. P. 618.
3. The statute does not conflict with the federal Recording and
Enrollment Acts, Rev. Stats. §§ 4192, 4311. P. 618.
4. The regulation is valid as applied to enrolled vessels engaged
in interstate commerce, in the absence of legislation by Congress in
respect of the matter. P. 618.
241 N. Y. 259, affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of New
York entered after affirmance by the Court of Appeals,
awarding recovery to Rivara in a suit under the New
York Personal Property Law for the amount paid by him
on account of the price of a vessel which he had bought
from the Stewart Company upon conditional sale and
which the vendor retook when the vendee defaulted. See
also 214 App. Div. 737.

Messrs. John M. Woolsey and HarringtonPutnam,with
whom Mr. L. deGrove Potterwas on the brief, for plaintiff
in error.

STEWART & CO. v. RIVARA.
614

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. James M. Gorman, with whom Mr. Pierre M.
Brown was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JuSTICE BUTrLER delivered

the opinion of the Court.

April 17, 1919, the company made a contract to sell
Rivara a tugboat. The vessel had been documented by
the company in the Custom House in New York as a vessel of the United States and was enrolled for coasting
voyages between ports of the United States. It was operated in interstate and intrastate commerce. The purchase price was to be paid in installments, and title was not
to pass until all was paid. When the contract was made,
the buyer paid part and the seller delivered the tug to
him. The contract provided that in case of default the
seller might take possession of the tug and that all payments on the purchase price should be applied solely as
rental. The buyer agreed, pending the fulfillment of the
contract, properly to maintain the tug, to keep it free
from libels and to pay for insurance. After making some
additional payments on the purchase price, the buyer
defaulted. The seller instituted proceedings in admiralty
for possession; and, pursuant to a decree dated April 7,
1921, obtained the tug subject to any rights or accountability which it might be under by reason of the New
York Sales Act or any other law.. In January, 1922, the
buyer brought this action to recover the amount paid on
the purchase price. The basis of his claim was that,
although he did not comply with the contract or make
good his default, the seller failed to sell the tug, or to give
notice of sale, in accordance with §§ 65 and 66 of the
Personal Property Law of New York. The seller answered that the state law did not apply to vessels documented in accordance with federal law and set up
counterclaims for amounts paid by it to or for the buyer.
The case was tried without a jury; the court found the
amount of the buyer's payments with interest, the rental

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

value of the tug and the amount paid by the seller for
maintenance and insurance. It held that the conditional
sale was subject to the state law; that the seller was not
entitled to credit for the rental value, and gave the buyer
judgment for the amount of his payments with interest
less the sums paid by the seller. The judgment was
affirmed in the Appellate Division, 214 App. Div. 737,
and in the Court of Appeals. 241 N. Y. 259.
Plaintiff in error contended in the Court of Appeals
and here insists that, as applied in this case, § 65 interferes with interstate commerce because it requires the
vessel to be withdrawn from service for more than thirty
days, and infringes the exclusive admiralty jurisdiction
of the United States because during the same period it
conflicts with the enforcement of maritime liens; that,
by the Enrollment Act, R. S. § 4311, and the Recording
Act, § 4192, Congress created a form of property known
as "vessels of the United States," and brought such property within its exclusive jurisdiction under the commerce
clause; and that the state law conflicts with the Acts of
Congress and therefore cannot be given effect.
The contract was made before the passage of the Jones
Act, approved June 5, 1920, c. 250, 41 Stat. 988, 1000.
Section 4311, Revised Statutes, provides that vessels of
twenty tons or upward enrolled in pursuance of this title
[L] and having licenses in force as required by this title
shall be deemed vessels of the United States, entitled to
the benefits and privileges appertaining to such vessels
employed in the coasting trade.1 And § 4192 provides
that no bill of sale, mortgage, hypothecation, or conveyance of any vessel of the United States shall be valid
against any persons, other than the grantor or mortgagor,
his heirs and devisees, and persons having actual notice
'Act of February 18, 1793, c. 8, § 1, 1 Stat. 305; U. S. C. Tit. 46,

§251.

STEWART & CO. v. RIVARA.
614

Opinion of the Court.

thereof, unless recorded in the office of the collector of
the customs where such vessel is registered or enrolled.2
Article 4 of the New York Personal Property Law
regulates contracts for conditional sale of goods and
chattels. Section 65 relates to the sale of property retaken by the conditional vendor. It provides that whenever articles sold on the condition that the title shall
remain in the vendor until payment of the purchase price,
are retaken by the vendor, they shall be retained for
thirty days during which the vendee may comply with
the contract and receive the property; that after the expiration of that period, if the contract is not complied
with, the vendor may cause the articles to be sold at
public auction, and that, unless they are so sold within
thirty days after the expiration of such period, the vendee
may recover the. amount paid on such articles under the
contract. The Court of Appeals held that § 65 applies
to the enrolled tugboat; and, unless that construction
brings the state law into conflict with the Constitution or
Acts of Congress, it will be followed by this Court.
Clearly there is nothing in the state law to interfere
with the use of such vessels as instrumentalities of interstate commerce. Its enforcement does not require that
the tugboat be withdrawn from service after retaking by
the conditional vendor; and the change of possession
would not necessarily interfere with its use in interstate
commerce. And, if interpreted to require the vessel to
be withdrawn from service for a time, the law would not
for that reason be invalid. Martin v. West, 222 U. S.
191, 197, 198; Davis v. C. C. C. & St. L. Ry., 217 U. S. 157,
174, et seq.; The Winnebago, 205 U. S. 354, 362; Johnson
v. Chicago and Pacific Elevator Co., 119 U. S.388, 400.
2Act of July 29, 1850, c. 27, § 1, 9 Stat. 440. See also Merchant

Marine Act, June 5, 1920, c. 250, § 30 C (a) and (x), 41 Stat. 988,
1000, 1006; Home Port Act, February 16, 1925, c. 235, § 2, 43 Stat.
948; U. S. C. Tit. 46, § 1012.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

Counsel for plaintiff in error argues that, during the
period which the state law requires property retaken to
be retained, persons having claims against such vessels
for supplies, salvage, wages of seamen and the like cannot
proceed in rem to enforce their maritime liens. But the
controversy in this case is exclusively between the buyer
and seller. No third person is here asserting rights as
a purchaser or as a maritime lien claimant. And we need
not consider what effect, if any, enforcement of the provisions of § 65 would have in a case where such rights
are in issue. Goreib v. Fox. et al., ante, p. 603.
The Recording Act was passed to furnish information
as to title and to protect bona fide purchasers. White's
Bank v, Smith, 7 Wall. 646, 655. The Act expressly
declares that it does not affect the title to vessels as
between the parties to the transactions to. which it applies.
Congress has not undertaken to regulate contracts for
conditional sales of vessels or other property used to carry
on interstate commerce. It has not entered the field
occupied by the state law in question. The purpose
of the enrollment of vessels is to give to them the privileges of American vessels as well as the protection of
our flag. There is no foundation for the contention
earnestly urged by plaintiff in error that Congress by
these Acts created "a new form of property known as
vessels of the United States" or that enrolled vessels are
"nationalized or federalized" in respect of conditional
sale contracts such as the one here involved. The enrollment of such vessels is not inconsistent with the application of the state law. Its provisions are not directed
against interstate commerce or any regulations concerning it. As interpreted and applied by the state court, it
merely regulates contracts for conditional sale of an enrolled vessel used in interstate commerce. In the absence
of legislation by Congress in respect of the matter, the

