WHITNEY v. CALIFORNIA.
352

Syllabus.

may declare that the use of the highway by the nonresident is the equivalent of the appointment of the
registrar as agent on whom process may be served. Cf.
Pennsylvania Fire Insurance Co. v. Gold Issue Mining
Co., supra, 96; Lafayette Ins. Co. v. French, 18 How.
404, 407-408. The difference between the formal and implied appointment is not substantial so far as concerns
the application of the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Judgment affirmed.
WHITNEY v. CALIFORNIA.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL, FIRST APPELLATE
DISTRICT, DIVISION ONE, OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 3. Argued October 6, 1925; reargued March 18, 1926.-Decided
May 16, 1927.
1. This Court acquires no jurisdiction to review the judgment of a
state court of last resort on a writ of error, unless it affirmatively

appears on the face of the record that a federal question constituting an appropriate ground for such review was presented in and
expressly or necessarily decided by such state court. P. 360.
2. Where the fact that a federal question was considered and passed
upon by the state court does not appear by the record, it may be
shown by a certified copy of an order of that court made after
the return of the writ of error and brought here as an addition to
the record. P. 361.
3. In reviewing the judgment of a state court this Court will consider
only such federal questions as are shown to have been presented
to the state court and expressly or necessarily decided by it.
P. 362.
4. The question whether the petitioner, who joined and assisted in
the organization of a Communist Labor Party contravening the
California Criminal Syndicalism Act, did so with knowledge of its
unlawful character and purpose, was a mere question of the weight
of the evidence, foreclosed by the verdict of guilty approved by the
state court, and not a question of the constitutionality of the Act,
reviewable by this Court. P. 366.
5. The California Criminal Syndicalism Act, which defines "criminal
syndicalism" as "any doctrine or precept advocating, teaching

358

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Statement of the Case.

274 U. S.

or aiding and abetting the commission of crime, sabotage (which
word is hereby defined as meaning wilful and malicious physical
damage or injury to physical property), or unlawful acts of force
and violence or unlawful methods of terrorism as a means of accomplishing a change in industrial ownership or control, or effecting any
political change," and declares guilty of a felony any person who
"organizes or assists in organizing, or is or knowingly becomes a
member of, any organization, society, group or assemblage of persons organized or assembled to advocate, teach or aid and abet
criminal syndicalism," is sufficiently clear and explicit to satisfy
the requirement of due process of law. P. 368.
6. The statute does not violate the Equal Protection Clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment in penalizing those who advocate a resort
to violent and unlawful methods as a means of changing industrial
and political conditions while not penalizing those who may advocate a resort to such methods for maintaining such conditions,
since the distinction is not arbitrary but within the discretionary
power of the State to direct its legislation against what it deems an
evil without covering the whole field of possible abuses. P. 369.
7. Such a statute is not open to objection unless the classification on
which it is based is so lacking in any adequate or reasonable basis
as to preclude the assumption that it was made in the exercise of
the legislative judgment and discretion. P. 369.
8. This Act is not class legislation; it affects all alike, no matter what
their business associations or callings, who come within its terms
and do the things prohibited. P. 370.
9. Nor is it repugnant to the Due Process Clause as a restraint of
the rights of free speech, assembly, and association. P. 371.
10. The determination of the legislature that the acts defined involve
such danger to the public peace and security of the State that they
should be penalized in the exercise of the police power must be
given great weight and every presumption be indulged in favor of
the validity of the statute, which could be declared unconstitutional
only if an attempt to exercise arbitrarily and unreasonably the
authority vested in the State in the public interest. P. 371.
57 Cal. App. 449; ib. 453, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the District Court of Appeal
of California which affirmed a conviction of the petitioner
under the state act against criminal syndicalism. The
Supreme Court of California denied a petition for appeal.
On the first hearing in this Court the writ of error was

WHITNEY v. CALIFORNIA.
357

Opinion of the Court.

dismissed for want of jurisdiction, but later a petition for
rehearing was granted. 269 U. S. 530, 538.
Mr. Walter H. Pollak, with whom Messrs. John F. Neylan, Thomas L.Lennon, Walter Nelles, and Ruth I. Wilson were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. John H. Riordan, Deputy Attorney General of California, with whom Mr. U. S. Webb, Attorney General, was
on the brief, for the State of California.
MR. JUsTIcE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
By a criminal information filed in the Superior Court
of Alameda County, California, the plaintiff in error was
charged, in five counts, with violations of the Criminal
Syndicalism Act of that State. Statutes, 1919, c. 188,
p. 281. She was tried, convicted on the first count, and
sentenced to imprisonment. The judgment was affirmed
by the District Court of Appeal. 57 Cal. App. 449. Her
petition to have the case heard by the Supreme Court 1
was denied. 1b. 453. And the case was brought here on
a writ of error which was allowed by the Presiding Justice
of the Court of Appeal, the highest court of the State in
which a decision could be had. Jud. Code, ยง 237.
On the first hearing in this Court, the writ of error was
dismissed for want of jurisdiction. 269 U. S.530. Thereafter, a petition for rehearing was granted, Ib. 538; and
the case was again heard and reargued both as to the
jurisdiction and the merits.
The pertinent provisions of the Criminal Syndicalism
Act are:
"Section 1. The term 'criminal syndicalism' as used
in this act is hereby defined as any doctrine or precept
advocating, teaching or aiding and abetting the commis' Statutes, 1919, c. 58, p. 88.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

sion of crime, sabotage (which word is hereby defined as
meaning wilful and malicious physical damage or injury
to physical property), or unlawful acts of force and violence or unlawful methods of terrorism as a means of accomplishing a change in industrial ownership or control,
or effecting any political change.
"See. 2. Any person who:
.
.
4. Organizes or
assists in organizing, or is or knowingly becomes a member of, any organization, society, group or assemblage
of persons organized or assembled to advocate, teach or
aid and abet criminal syndicalism
"Is guilty of a felony and punishable by imprisonment."
The first count of the information, on which the conviction was had, charged that on or about November 28,
1919, in Alameda County, the defendant, in violation of
the Criminal Syndicalism Act, "did then and there unlawfully, wilfully, wrongfully, deliberately and feloniously organize and assist in organizing, and was, is, and
knowingly became a member of an organization, society,
group and assemblage of persons organized and assembled
to advocate, teach, aid and abet criminal syndicalism."
It has long been settled that this Court acquires no
jurisdiction to review the judgment of a state court of
last resort on a writ of error, unless it affirmatively appears on the face of the record that a federal question
constituting an appropriate ground for such review was
presented in and expressly or necessarily decided by such
state court. Crowell v. Randell, 10 Pet. 368, 392; Railroad Co. v. Rock, 4 Wall, 177, 180; California Powder
Works v. Davis, 151 U. S. 389, 393; Cincinnati,etc. Railway v. Slade, 216 U. S. 78, 83; Hiawassee Power Co. v.
Carolina-Tenn. Co., 252 U. S. 341, 343; New York v.
Kleinert, 268 U. S. 646, 650.
Here the record does not show that the defendant
raised or that the State courts considered or decided any

WHITNEY v. CALIFORNIA.
357

361

Opinion of the Court.

Federal question whatever, excepting as appears in an
order made and entered by the Court of Appeal after it
had decided the case and the writ of error had issued and
been returned to this Court. A certified copy of that
order, brought here as an addition to the record, shows
that it was made and entered pursuant to a stipulation
of the parties, approved by the court, and that it contains
the following statement:
"The question whether the California Criminal Syndicalism Act . . . and its application in this case is
repugnant to the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, providing
that no state shall deprive any person of life, liberty, or
property, without due process of law, and that all persons
shall be accorded the equal protection of the laws, was
considered and passed upon by this Court."
In Cincinnati Packet Co. v. Bay, 200 U. S. 179, 182,
where it appeared that a federal question had been presented in a petition in error to the State Supreme Court
in a case in which the judgment was affirmed without
opinion, it was held that the certificate of that court to
the effect that it had considered and necessarily decided
this question, was sufficient to show its existence. And
see Marvin v. Trout, 199 U. S. 212, 217, et seq.; Consolidated Turnpike v. Norfolk, etc. .Railway, 228 U. S. 596,
599.
So-while the unusual course here taken to show that
federal questions were raised and decided below is not to
be commended-we shall give effect to the order of the
Court of Appeal as would be done if the statement had
been made in the opinion of that court when delivered.
See Gross v. United States Mortgage Co., 108 U. S. 477,
484-486; PhiladelphiaFire Association v. New York, 119
U. S. 110, 116; Home for Incurables v. City of New York,
187 U. S. 155, 157; Land & Water Co. v. San Jose Ranch
Co., 189 U. S. 177, 179-180; Rector v. City Deposit Bank,

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

200 U. S. 405, 412; Haire v. Rice, 204 U. S. 291, 299;
Chambersv. Baltimore, etc. Railroad,207 U. S. 142, 148;
Atchison, etc. Railway v. Sowers, 213 U. S. 55, 62; Consolidated Turnpike Co. v. Norfolk, etc. Railway, 228 U. S.
596, 599; Miedreich v. Lauenstein, 232 U. S. 236, 242;
North CarolinaRailroad v. Zachary, 232 U. S. 248, 257;
Chicago, etc. Railway v. Perry, 259 U. S. 548, 551.
And here, since it appears from the statement in the
order of the Court of Appeal that the question whether
the Syndicalism Act and its application in this case was
repugnant to the due process and equal protection clauses
of the Fourteenth Amendment, was considered and passed
upon by that court-this being a federal question constituting an appropriate ground for a review of the judgment-we conclude that this Court has acquired jurisdiction under the writ of error. The order dismissing the
writ for want of jurisdiction will accordingly be set aside.
We proceed to the determination, upon the merits, of
the constitutional question considered and passed upon
by the Court of Appeal. Of course our review is to be
confined to that question, since it does not appear, either
from the order of the Court of Appeal or from the record
otherwise, that any other federal question was presented
in and either expressly or necessarily decided by that
court. National Bank v. Commonwealth, 9 Wall. 353,
363; Edwards v. Elliott, 21 Wall. 532, 557; Dewey v. Des
Moines, 173 U. S. 193, 200; Keokuk & Hamilton Bridge
Co. v. Illinois, 175 U. S. 626, 633; CapitalCity Dairy Co.
v. Ohio, 183 U. S. 238, 248; Haire v. Rice, 204 U. S. 291,
301; Selover, Bates & Co. v. Walsh, 226 U. S. 112, 126.
Missouri Pacific Railway v. Coal Co., 256 U. S. 134, 135.
It is not enough that there may be somewhere hidden in
the record a question which, if it had been raised, would
have been of a federal nature. Dewey v. Des Moines,
supra, 199; Keokuk & Hamilton Bridge Co. v. Illinois,
supra, 634. And this necessarily excludes from our con-

WHITNEY v. CALIFORNIA.
357

Opinion of the Court.

sideration a question sought to be raised for the first time
by the assignments of error here-not presented in or
passed upon by the Court of Appeal-whether apart from
the constitutionality of the Syndicalism Act, the judgment of the Superior Court, by reason of the rulings of
that court on questions of pleading, evidence and the
like, operated as a denial to the defendant of due process
of law. See Oxley Stave Co. v. Butler County, 166 U. S.
648, 660; "Capiial City Dairy Co. v. Ohio, supra, 248;
Manhattan Life Ins. Co. v. Cohen, 234 U. S., 123, 134;
Bass, etc. Ltd. v. Tax Commission, 266 U. S. 271, 283.
The following facts, among many others, were established on the trial by undisputed evidence: The defendant, a resident of Oakland, in Alameda County, California, had been a member of the Local Oakland branch of
the Socialist Party. This Local sent delegates to the national convention of the Socialist Party held in Chicago
in 1919, which resulted in a split between the "radical"
group and the old-wing Socialists. The "radicals "-to
whom the Oakland delegates adhered-being ejected,
went to another hall, and formed the Communist Labor
Party of America. Its Constitution provided for the
membership of persons subscribing to the principles of
the Party and pledging themselves to be guided by its
Platform, and for the formation of state organizations
conforming to its Platform as the supreme declaration.
of the Party. In its "Platform and Program" the Party
declared that it was in full harmony with "the revolutionary working class parties of all countries" and adhered to the principles of Communism laid down in the
Manifesto of the Third International at Moscow, and
that its purpose was "to create a unified revolutionary
working class movement in America," organizing the
workers as a class, in a revolutionary class struggle to conquer the capitalist state, for the overthrow of capitalist
rule, the conquest of political power and the establishment

364

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

of a working class government, the Dictatorship of the
Proletariat, in place of the state machinery of the capitalists, which should make and enforce the laws, reorganize
society on the basis of Communism and bring about the
Communist Commonwealth-advocated, as the most important means of capturing state power, the action of the
masses, proceeding from the shops and factories, the use
of the political machinery of the capitalist state being
only secondary; the organization of the w6rkers into
"revolutionary industrial unions "; propaganda pointing
out their revolutionary nature and possibilities; and great
industrial battles showing the value of the strike as a
political weapon-co amended the propaganda and example of the Industrial Workers of the World and their
struggles and sacrifices in the class war-pledged support
and cooperation to "the revolutionary industrial proletariat of America" in their struggles against the capitalist
class-cited the Seattle and Winnipeg strikes and the numerous strikes all over the country "proceeding without
the authority of the old reactionary Trade Union officials,"
as manifestations of the new tendency-and recommended that strikes of national importance be supported
and given a political character, and that propagandists
and organizers be mobilized "who can not only teach,
but actually help to put in practice the principles of revolutionary industrial unionism and Communism."
Shortly thereafter the Local Oakland withdrew from
the Socialist Party, and sent accredited delegates, including the defendant, to a convention held in Oakland in
November, 1919, for the purpose of organizing a California branch of the Communist Labor Party. The defendant, after taking out a temporary membership in the
Communist Labor Party, attended this convention as a
delegate and took an active part in its proceedings. She
was elected a member of the Credentials Committee, and,
as its chairman, made a report to the convention upon

WHITNEY v. CALIFORNIA.
357

Opinion of the Court.

which the delegates were seated. She was also appointed
a member of the Resolutions Committee, and as such
signed the following resolution in reference to political
action, among others proposed by the Committee: "The
C. L. P. of California fully recognizes the value of political action as a means of spreading communist propaganda; it insists that in proportion to the development of
the economic strength of the working class, it, the working class, must also develop its political power. The
C. L. P. of California proclaims and insists that the capture of political power, locally or nationally by the revolutionary working class can be of tremendous assistance
to the workers in their struggle of emancipation. Therefore, we again urge the workers who are possessed -of the
right of franchise to cast their votes for the party which
represents their immediate and final interest-the
C. L. P.--at all elections, being fully convinced of the
utter futility of obtaining any real measure of justice or
freedom under officials elected by parties owned and controlled by the capitalist class." The minutes show that
this resolution, with the others proposed by the committee, was read by its chairman to the convention before
the Committee on the Constitution had submitted its
report. According to the recollection of the defendant,
however, she herself read this resolution. Thereafter,
before the report of the Committee on the Constitution
had been acted upon, the defenddnt was elected an alternate member of the State Executive Committee. The
Constitution, as finally read, was then adopted. This
provided that the organization should be named the Communist Labor Party of California; that it should be "affiliated with" the Communist Labor Party of America,
and subscribe to its Program, Platform and Constitution,
and "through this affiliation" be "joined with the Communist International of Moscow;" and that the qualifications for membership should be those prescribed in the

366

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

National Constitution. The proposed resolutions, were
later taken up and all adopted, except that on political
action, which caused a lengthy debate, resulting in its defeat and the acceptance of the National Program in its
place. After this action, the defendant, without, so far
as appears, making any protest, remained in the convention until it adjourned., She later attended as an alternate member one or two meetings of the State Executive
Committee in San Jos6 and San Francisco, and stated, on
the trial, that she was then a member of the Communist
Labor Party. She also testified that it was not her intention that the Communist Labor Party of California
should be an instrument of terrorism or violence, and
that it was not her purpose or that of the Convention
to violate any known law.
In the light of this preliminary statement, we now take
up, in so far as they require specific consideration, the
various grounds upon which it is here contended that the
Syndicalism Act and its application in this case is repugnant to the due process and equal protection clauses of
the Fourteenth Amendment.
1. While it is not denied that the evidence warranted
the jury in finding that the defendant became a member
of and assisted in organizing the Communist Labor Party
of California, and that this was organized to advocate,
teach, aid or abet criminal syndicalism as defined by the
Act, it is urged that the Act, as here construed and applied, deprived the defendant of her liberty without due
process of law in that it has made her action in attending
the Oakland convention unlawful by reason of "a subsequent event brought about against her will, by the
agency of others," with no showing of a specific intent
on her part to join in the forbidden purpose of the association, and merely because, by reason of a lack of "prophetic" understanding she failed to foresee the quality
that others would give to the convention. The argu-

WHITNEY v. CALIFORNIA.
357

367

Opinion of the Court.

ment is, in effect, that the character of the state organization could not be forecast when she attended the convention; that she had no purpose of helping to create an
instrument of terrorism and violence; that she "took
part in formulating and presenting to the convention a
resolution which, if adopted, would have committed the
new organization to a legitimate policy of political reform by the use of the ballot "; that it was not until
after the majority of the convention turned out to be
"contrary-minded, and other less temperate policies prevailed" that the convention could have taken on the
character of criminal syndicalism; and that as this was
done over her protest, her mere presence in the convention, however violent the opinions expressed therein,
could not thereby become a crime. This contention,
while advanced in the form of a constitutional objection
to the Act, is in effect nothing more than an effort to
review the weight of the evidence for the purpose of
showing that the defendant did not join and assist in organizing the Communist Labor Party of California with
a knowledge of its unlawful character and purpose.
This question, which is foreclosed by the verdict of the
jury-sustained by the Court of Appeal over the specific
objection that it was not supported by the evidence-is
one of fact merely which is not open to review in this
Court, involving as it does no constitutional question
whatever. And we may add that the argument entirely
disregards the facts: that the defendant had previously
taken out a membership card in the National Party, that
the resolution which she supported did not advocate the
use of the ballot to the exclusion of violent and unlawful
means of bringing about the desired changes in industrial
and political conditions; and that, after the constitution
of the California Party had been adopted, and this resolution had been voted down and the National Program accepted, she not only remained in the convention, without

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

protest, until its close, but subsequently manifested her
acquiescence by attending as an alternate member of the
State Executive Committee and continuing as a member
of the Communist Labor Party.
2. It is clear that the Syndicalism Act is not repugnant
to the due process clause by reason of vagueness and
uncertainty of definition. It has no substantial resemblance to the statutes held void for uncertainty under the
Fourteenth and Fifth Amendments in InternationalHarvester Co. v. Kentucky, 234 U. S. 216, 221; and United
States v. Cohen Grocery, 255 U. S. 81, 89, because
not fixing an ascertainable standard of guilt. The language of ยง 2, subd. 4, of the Act, under which the plaintiff in error was convicted, is clear; the definition of
"criminal syndicalism" specific.
The Act, plainly, meets the essential requirement of
due process that a penal statute be "sufficiently explicit
to inform those who are subject to it, what conduct on
their part will render them liable to its penalties," and
be couched in terms that are not "so vague that men of
common intelligence must necessarily guess at its meaning and differ as to its application." Connally v. General
Construction Co., 269 U. S. 385, 391. And see United
States v. Brewer, 139 U. S.278, 288; Chicago, etc., Railway v. Dey, (C. C.) 35 Fed. 866, 876; Tozer v. United
States, (C. C.) 52 Fed. 917, 919. In Omaechevarriav.
Idaho, 246 U. S. 343, 348, in which it was held that a
criminal statute prohibiting the grazing of sheep on any
"range" previously occupied by cattle "in the usual and
customary use" thereof, was not void for indefiniteness
because it failed to provide for the ascertainment of the
-boundaries of a "range" or to determine the length of
time necessary to constitute a prior occupation a "usual"
one, this Court said "Men familiar with range conditions
and desirous of observing the law will have little difficulty

WHITNEY v. CALIFORNIA.
357

Opinion of the Court.

in determining what is prohibited by it. Similar expressions are common in the criminal statutes of other States.
This statute presents no greater uncertainty or difficulty,

in application to necessarily varying facts, than has been
repeatedly sanctioned by this court. Nash v. United
States, 229 U. S. 373, 377; Miller v. Strahl, 239 U. S.
426, 434." So, as applied here, the Syndicalism Act required of the defendant no "prophetic" understanding
of its meaning.
And similar Criminal Syndicalism statutes of other
States, some less specific in their definitions, have been
held by the State courts not to be void for indefiniteness.
State v. Hennessy, 114 Wash. 351, 364; State v. Laundy,
103 Ore. 443, 460; People v. Ruthenberg, 229 Mich. 315,
325. And see Fox v. Washington, 236 U. S. 273, 277;
People v. Steelik, 187 Cal. 361, 372; People v. Lloyd, 304
Ill. 23, 34.
3. Neither is the Syndicalism Act repugnant to the
equal protection clause, on the ground that, as its penalties are confined to those who advocate a resort to violent
and unlawful methods as a means of changing industrial
and political conditions, it arbitrarily discriminates between such persons and those who may advocate a resort
to these methods as a means of maintaining such conditions.
It is settled by repeat'ed decisions of this Court that
the equal protection clause does not take from a State
the power to classify in the adoption of police laws, but
admits of the exercise of a wide scope of discretion, and
avoids what is done only when it is without any reasonable basis and therefore is purely arbitrary; and that one
who assails the classification must carry the burden of
showing that it does not rest upon any reasonable basis,
but is essentially arbitrary. Lindsley v. National Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61, 78, and cases cited.
55514-28-24

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

A statute does not violate the equal protection clause
merely because it is not all-embracing. Zucht v. King,
260 U. S. 174, 177; James-Dickinson Farm Mortgage Co.
v. Harry,273 U. S. 119. A State may properly direct its
legislation against what it deems an existing evil without covering the whole field of possible abuses. Patsone
v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 138, 144; Farmers Bank v.
Federal Reserve Bank, 262 U. S. 649, 661; James-Dickinson Mortgage Co. v. Harry, supra. The statute must be
presumed to be aimed at an evil where experience shows
it to be most felt, and to be deemed by the legislature
coextensive with the practical need; and is not to be overthrown merely because other instances may be suggested
to which also it might have been applied; that being a
matter for the legislature to determine unless the case is
very clear. Keokee Coke Co. v Taylor, 234 U. S. 224,
227. And it is not open to objection unless the classification is so lacking in any adequate or reasonable basis
as to preclude the assumption that it was made in the
exercise of the legislative judgment and discretion. Stebbins v. Riley, 268 U. S. 137, 143; Graves v. Minnesota,
272 U. S. 425; Swiss Oil Corporation v. Shanks, 273
U. S. 407.
The Syndicalism Act is not class legislation; it affects
all alike, no matter what their business associations or
callings, who come within its terms and do the things
prohibited. See State v. Hennessy, supra, 361; State v.
Laundy, supra, 460. And there is no substantial basis
for the contention that the legislature has arbitrarily or
unreasonably limited its application to those advocating
the use of violent and unlawful methods to effect changes
in industrial and political conditions; there being nothing
indicating any ground to apprehend that those desiring
to maintain existing industrial and political conditions
did or would advocate such methods. That there is a
wide-spread conviction of the necessity for legislation of

WHITNEY v. CALIFORNIA.
357

Opinion of the Court.

this character is indicated by the adoption of similar
statutes in several other States.

4. Nor is the Syndicalism Act as applied in this case
repugnant to the due process clause as a restraint of the

rights of free speech, assembly, and association.
That the freedom of speech which is secured by the
Constitution does not confer an absolute right to speak,
without responsibility, whatever one may choose, or an
unrestricted and unbridled license giving immunity for
every possible use of language and preventing the punishment of those who abuse this freedom; and that a
State in the exercise of its police power may punish those
who abuse this freedom by utterances inimical to the
public welfare, tending to incite to crime, disturb the public peace, or endanger the foundations of organized government and threaten its overthrow by unlawful means,
is not open to question. Gitlow v. Neiv York, 268 U. S.
652, 666-668, and cases cited.
By enacting the provisions of the Syndicalism Act the
State has declared, through its legislative body, that to
knowingly be or become a member of or assist in organizing an association to advocate, teach or aid and abet
the commission of crimes or unlawful acts of force, violence or terrorism as a means of accomplishing industrial
or political changes, involves such danger to the public
peace and the security of the State, that these acts should
be penalized in the exercise of its police power. That
determination must be given great weight. Every presumption is to be indulged in favor of the validity of the
statute, Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 661; and it may
not be declared unconstitutional unless it is an arbitrary
or unreasonable attempt to exercise the authority vested
in the State in the public interest. Great Northern Railway v. Clara City, 246 U. S. 434, 439.
The essence of the offense denounced by the Act is
the combining with others in an association for the ac-

372

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
BRANDEIS

and HOLMES, J. J., concurring.

274 U. S.

complishment of the desired ends through the advocacy
and use of criminal and unlawful methods. It partakes
of the nature of a criminal conspiracy. See People v.
Steelik, supra, 376. That such united and joint action
involves even greater danger to the public peace and
security than the isolated utterances and acts of individuals, is clear. We cannot hold that, as here applied,
the Act is an unreasonable or arbitrary exercise of the
police power of the State, unwarrantably infringing any
right of free speech, assembly or association, or that those
persons are protected from punishment by the due process clause who abuse such rights by joining and furthering an organization thus menacing the peace and welfare
of the State.
We find no repugnancy in the Syndicalism Act as applied in this case to either the due process or equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment on any
of the grounds upon which its validity has been here
challenged.
The order dismissing the writ of error will be vacated
and set aside, and the judgment of the Court of Appeal
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTIcE BRANDEIS,

concurring.

Miss Whitney was convicted of the felony of assisting
in organizing, in the year 1919, the Communist Labor
Party of California, of being a member of it, and of assembling with it. These acts are held to constitute a
crime, because the party was formed to teach criminal
syndicalism. The statute which made these acts a crime
restricted the right of free speech and of assembly theretofore existing. The claim is that the statute, as applied,
denied to Miss Whitney the liberty guaranteed by the
Fourteenth Amendment.
The felony which the statute created is a crime very
unlike the old felony of conspiracy or the old misdemeanor

WHITNEY v. CALIFORNIA.
357

BRANDEis and HoLmEs, J. J., concurring.

of unlawful assembly.

The mere act of assisting in form-

ing a society for teaching syndicalism, of becoming a member of it, or of assembling with others for that purpose
is given the dynamic quality of crime. There is guilt although the society may not contemplate immediate promulgation of the doctrine. Thus the accused is to be punished, not for contempt, incitement or conspiracy, but for
a step in preparation, which, if it threatens the public
order at all, does so only remotely. The novelty in the
prohibition introduced is that the statute aims, not at
the practice of criminal syndicalism, nor even directly at
the preaching of it, but at association with those who
propose to preach it.
Despite arguments to the contrary which had seemed
to me persuasive, it is settled that the due process clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment applies to matters of substantive law as well as to matters of procedure. Thus
all fundamental rights comprised within the term liberty
are protected by the Federal Constitution from invasion
by the States. The right of free speech, the right to teach
and the right of assembly are, of course, fundamental
rights. See Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U. S. 390; Pierce v,
Sodety of Sisters, 268 U. S. 510; Gitlow v. New York, 268
U. S. 652, 666; Farrington v. Tokushige, 273 U. S. 284.
These may not be denied or abridged. But, although the
rights of free speech and assembly are fundamental, they
are not in their nature absolute. Their exercise is subject to restriction, if the particular restriction proposed is
required in order to protect the State from destruction
or from serious injury, political, economic or moral. That
the necessity which is essential to a valid restriction does
not exist unless speech would produce, or is intended to
produce, a clear and imminent danger of some substantive
evil which the State constitutionally may seek to prevent has been settled. See Schenck v. United States, 249
U. S. 47, 52.

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
BRANDEIs and HOLMES, J. J., concurring.

274 U. S.

It is said to be the function of the legislature to determine whether at a particular time and under the particular circumstances the formation of, or assembly with,
a society organized to advocate criminal syndicalism constitutes a clear and present danger of substantive evil;
and that by enacting the law here in question the legislature of California determined that question in the affirmative. Compare Gitlow v. New York, 268 U. S. 652,
668-671. The legislature must obviously decide, in the
first instance, whether a danger exists which calls for a
particular protective measure. But where a statute is
valid only in case certain conditions exist, the enactment
of the statute cannot alone establish the facts which are
essential to its validity. Prohibitory legislation has repeatedly been held invalid, because unnecessary, where
the denial of liberty involved was that of engaging in a
particular business.' The power of the courts to strike
down an offending law is no less when the interests involved are not property rights, but the fundamental personal rights of free speech and assembly.
This Court has not yet fixed the standard by which to
determine when a danger shall be deemed clear; how remote the danger may be and yet be deemed present; and
what degree of evil shall be deemed sufficiently substantial to justify resort to abridgement of free speech and
assembly as the means of protection. To reach sound
conclusions on these matters, we must bear in mind why
a State is, ordinarily, denied the power to prohibit dissemination of social, economic and political doctrine
which a vast majority of its citizens believes to be false
and fraught with evil consequence.
'Compare Frost v. R. R. Comm. of California, 271 U. S. 583;
Weaver v. Palmer Bros. Co., 270 U. S. 402; Jay Burns Baking Co. v.
Bryan, 264 U. S. 504; Pennsylvania Coal Co. v. Mahon, 260 U. S.
393; Adams v. Tanner, 244 U. S. 590.

WHITNEY v. CALIFORNIA.
357

BRANDEIs

and HOLMEs, J. J., concurring.

Those who won our independence believed that the
final end of the State was to make men free to develop
their faculties; and that in its government the deliberative forces should prevail over the arbitrary. They valued liberty both as an end and as a means. They believed
liberty to be the secret of happiness and courage to be
the secret of liberty. They believed that freedom to
think as you will and to speak as you think are means
indispensable to the discovery and spread of political
truth; that without free speech and assembly discussion
would be futile; that with them, discussion affords ordinarily adequate protection against the dissemination
of noxious doctrine; that the greatest menace to freedom
is an inert people; that public discussion is a political
duty; and that this should be a fundamental principle of
the American government. 2 They recognized the risks
to which all human institutions are subject. But they
knew that order cannot be secured merely through fear of
punishment for its infraction; that it is hazardous to discourage thought, hope and imagination; that fear breeds
repression; that repression breeds hate; that hate menaces
stable government; that the path of safety lies in the opportunity to discuss freely supposed grievances and proposed remedies; and that the fitting remedy for evil counsels is good ones. Believing in the power of reason as
applied through public discussion, they eschewed silence
2 Compare Thomas Jefferson: "We have nothing to fear from the
demoralizing reasonings of some, if others are left free to demonstrate
their errors and especially when the law stands ready to punish the
first criminal act produced by the false reasonings; these are safer
corrections than the conscience of the judge." Quoted by Charles A.
Beard, The Nation, July 7, 1926, vol. 123, p. 8. Also in first Inaugural Address: "If there be any among us who would wish to dissolve
this union or change its republican form, let them stand undisturbed
as monuments of the safety with which error of opinion may be
tolerated where reason is left free to combat it."

376

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
BRANDEis and HOLMES, J. J., concurring.

274 U. S.

coerced by law-the argument of force in its worst form.
Recognizing the occasional tyrannies of governing majorities, they amended the Constitution so that free speech
and assembly should be guaranteed.
Fear of serious injury cannot alone justify suppression
of free speech and assembly. Men feared witches and
burnt women. It is the function of speech to free men
from the bondage of irrational fears. To justify suppression of free speech there must be reasonable ground
to fear that serious evil will result if free speech is practiced. There must be reasonable ground to believe that
the danger apprehended is imminent. There must be
reasonable ground to believe that the evil to be prevented
is a serious one. Every denunciation of existing law
tends in some measure to increase the probability that
there will be violation of it.' Condonation of a breach
enhances the probability. Expressions of approval add
to the probability. Propagation of the criminal state of
mind by teaching syndicalism increases it. Advocacy of
law-breaking heightens it still further. But even advocacy of viotation, however reprehensible morally, is not
a justification for denying free speech where the advocacy
falls short of incitement and there is nothing to indicate
that the advocacy would be immediately acted on. The
wide difference between advocacy and incitement, between preparation and attempt, between assembling and
conspiracy, must be borne in mind. In order to support a
finding of clear and present danger it must be shown
either that immediate serious violence was to be expected
or was advocated, or that the past conduct furnished
reason to believe that such advocacy was then contemplated.
3 Compare Judge Learned Hand in Masses Publishing Co. v. Patten,
244 Fed. 535, 540; Judge Amidon in United States v. Fontana,Bull.
Dept. of Justice No. 148, pp. 4-5; Chafee, "Freedom of Speech,"
pp. 46-56, 174,

WHITNEY v. CALIFORNIA.
357

377

BRAmEis and HOLMES, J. J., concurring.

Those who won our independence by revolution were
not cowards. They did not fear political change. They
did not exalt order at the cost of liberty. To courageous,
self-reliant men, with confidence in the power of free and
fearless reasoning applied through the processes of popular government, no danger flowing from speech can be
deemed clear and present, unless the incidence of the evil
apprehended is so imminent that it may befall before there
is opportunity for full discussion. If there be time to
expose through discussion the falsehood and fallacies, to
avert the evil by the processes of education, the remedy
to be applied is more speech, not enforced silence. Only
an emergency can justify repression. Such must be the
rule if authority is to be reconciled with freedom.4 Such,
in my opinion, is the command of the Constitution. It
is therefore always open to Americans to challenge a law
abridging free speech and assembly by showing that there
was no emergency justifying it.
Moreover, even imminent danger cannot justify resort
to prohibition of these functions essential to effective
democracy, unless the evil apprehended is relatively serious. Prohibition of free speech and assembly is a measure so stringent that it*would be inappropriate as the
means for averting a relatively trivial harm to society.
A police measure may be unconstitutional merely because
the remedy, although effective as means of protection, is
unduly harsh or oppressive. Thus,. a State might, in the
exercise of its police power, make any trespass upon the
Compare Z. Chafee, Jr., "Freedom 'of Speech ", pp. 24-39,
207-221, 228, 262-265; H. J. Laski, "Grammar of Politics ", pp.
120, 121; Lord Justice Scrutton in Rex v. Secretary of Home Affairs,
Ex parte O'Brien, [1923] 2 K. B. 361, 382: "You really believe in
freedom of speech, if you are willing to allow it to men whose opinions
seem to you wrong and even dangerous; . . ." Compare Warren,
"The New Liberty Under the Fourteenth Amendment," 39 Harvard
Law Review, 431, 461.

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
BRANDis and HOLMES, J. J., concurring.

274 U. S.

land of another a crime, regardless of the results or of
the intent or purpose of the trespasser. It might, also,
punish an attempt, a conspiracy, or an incitement to
commit the trespass. But it is hardly conceivable that
this Court would hold constitutional a statute which punished as a felony the mere voluntary assembly with a
society formed to teach that pedestrians had the moral
right to cross unenclosed, unposted, waste lands and to
advocate their doing so, even if there was imminent danger that advocacy would lead to a trespass. The fact
that speech is likely to result in some violence or in destruction of property is not enough to justify its suppression. There must be the probability of serious injury
to the State. Among free men, the deterrents ordinarily
to be applied to prevent crime are education and punishment for violations of the law, not abridgment of the
rights of free speech and assembly.
The California Syndicalism Act recites in ยง 4:
"Inasmuch as this act concerns and is necessary to the
immediate preservation of the public peace and safety,
for the reason that at the present time large numbers of
persons are going from place to place in this state advocating, teaching and practicing 6riminal syndicalism, this
act shall take effect upon approval by the Governor."
This legislative declaration satisfies the requirement
of the constitution of the State concerning emergency
legislation. In re McDermott, 180 Cal. 783. But it does
not preclude enquiry into the question whether, at the
time and under the circumstances, the conditions existed
which are essential to validity under the Federal Constitution. As a statute, even if not void on its face, may
be challenged because invalid as applied, Dahnke-Walker
Milling Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282, the result of such
an enquiry may depend upon the specific facts of the
particular case. Whenever the fundamental rights of
free speech and asseinbly are alleged to have been in-

WHITNEY v. CALIFORNIA.

357

BRAIMEIs

and

HoLMES, J.

J., concurring.

vaded, it must remain open to a defendant to present the
issue whether there actually did exist at the time a clear
danger; whether the danger, if any, was imminent; and
whether the evil apprehended was one so substantial as
to justify the stringent restriction interposed by the legislature. The legislative declaration, like the fact that
the statute was passed and was sustained by the highest
court of the State, creates merely a rebuttable presumption that these conditions have been satisfied.
Whether in 1919, when Miss Whitney did the things
complained of, there was in California such clear and
present danger of serious evil, might have been made the
important issue in the case. She might have required
that the issue be determined either by the court or the
jury. She claimed below that the statute as applied to
her violated the Federal Constitution; but she did not
claim that it was void because there was no clear and
present danger of serious, evil, nor did she request that
the existence of these conditions of a valid measure thus
restricting the rights of free speech and assembly be
passed upon by the court or a jury. On the other hand,
there was evidence on which the court or jury might have
found that such danger existed. I am unable to assent
to the suggestion in the opinion of the Court that assembling with a political party, formed to advocate the desirability of a proletarian revolution by mass action at
some date necessarily far in the future, is not a right
within the protection of the Fourteenth Amendment.
In the present case, however, there was other testimony
which tended to establish the existence of a conspiracy,
on the part of members of the International Workers of
the World, to commit present serious crimes; and likewise to show that such a conspiracy would be furthered
by the activity of the society of which Miss Whitney was
a member. Under these circumstances the judgment of
the state court cannot be disturbed.

