UNITED STATES v. LEE.

559

Counsel for Parties.

UNITED STATES v. LEE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 752. Argued March 8, 1927.-Decided May 31, 1927.
1. Officers of the Coast Guard are authorized, by virtue of Rev. Stats.
§ 3072, to seize on the high seas beyond the twelve-mile limit an
American vessel subject to forfeiture for violation of any law respecting the revenue. Maul v. United States, ante, p. 501. P. 562.
2. From that power it is fairly to be inferred that they are likewise
authorized to board and search such vessels when there is probable
cause to believe them subject to seizure for violation of revenue
laws, and to arrest persons thereon engaged in such violation.
P. 562.
3. Where a boat was properly seized by a Coast Guard officer beyond
the twelve-mile limit and brought in, a search of her by a deputy
surveyor of the port, within the territory of the United States, was
authorized by § 581 of the Tariff Act of 1922, and failure of the
Government to institute proceedings to forfeit the boat and cargo
of illicit liquor did not, by retroaction, render illegal either the
seizure or the search. P. 563.
4. A search of a boat made as an incident of a lawful arrest does not
violate the Constitution. P. 563.
5. An examination of a boat with a search light, before boarding her,
is not an unconstitutional search, and discovery thereby of illicit
liquor is admissible in evidence. P. 563.
6. Legal evidence is not rendered inadmissible by a later trespass
upon the part of the officers who obtained it. P. 563.
14 F. (2d) 400, reversed.

CERTIoRARI (273 U. S. 686) to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals reversing a conviction for conspiracy to
violate the Tariff and Prohibition Acts, upon the ground
that evidence admitted was obtained by an illegal search
and seizure.

Assistant Attorney General Farnum, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell was on the brief, for the United
States.

560

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U.S.

No appearance for respondent.

MR. JusTIcE BRANDEIs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In the federal court for Massachusetts, Lee and two
others, all apparently American citizens, were indicted
for conspiring within the United States to violate §§ 591
and 593 of the Tariff Act of 1922, c. 356, 42 Stat. 858, 981,
982, and § 3 of the National Prohibition Act, October 28,
1919, c. 85, Title II, 41 Stat. 305, 308. The defendants
pleaded not guilty. Lee and one other were convicted.
Lee sued out a writ of error. The Court of Appeals (one
judge dissenting) vacated the judgment on the ground
that evidence had been admitted which was obtained by
an illegal search and seizure. 14 F. (2d) 400. This
Court granted a writ of certiorari. 273 U. S. 686.
On the afternoon of February 16, 1925, the boatswain
of a Coast Guard patrol boat saw a motor boat of the
numbered type proceed in a southeasterly direction from
Gloucester harbor. He followed her at a distance of 500
yards, lost sight of her after sundown, apparently in a
fog, at a point about 20 miles east of Boston Light, and
discovered her later alongside the schooner L'Homme in
a region commonly spoken of as Rum Row, at a point 24
miles from land. On board the motor boat were Lee, two
associates, and 71 cases of grain alcohol. The boatswain
arrested the three men, seized the motor boat, and took
her with them and the liquor to Boston. There this indictment was found. It does not appear that the Government instituted proceedings to forfeit either the motor
boat or the liquor. The motor boat, which had a length
of about 30 feet, was registered in Lee's name.
The boatswain testified that when he discovered the
motor boat alongside the L'Homme:

UNITED STATES v. LEE.
559

Opinion of the Court.

"I put a searchlight on her and told those aboard the
motor boat to put up their hands. In the boat I found
the three defendants, McNeil, Vieria, and Lee. I hooked
the boat over and found a number of cans of alcohol on
board it. I searched the defendants for weapons and
found none. I put two of my men on board the motor
boat and took the boat and the defendants to Boston."
The liquor does not appear to have been put in evidence. The deputy surveyor of the port testified that,
upon the motor boat's arrival in Boston, he examined the
cases on board and found that they contained alcohol, 95
degrees proof; and that Lee, when interrogated, said:
"I ran the engine, and the first thing I knew I was alongside a schooner. I did not see any cases on our boat
until captured by the revenue cutter." The testimony of
the deputy surveyor as to what he found on the motor
boat, and that of the boatswain as to what he found upon
his examination of the motor boat at the time of his command to those on board to throw up their hands, was
admitted over Lee's objection and subject to exception
duly made.
The Court of Appeals, expressing disagreement with
the conclusion reached in The Underwriter, 13 F. (2d)
433, held that the Coast Guard is not authorized to visit
and search American vessels on the high seas more than
twelve miles from the coast; that the seizure there made
was without authority; that it was illegal, since it did not
appear that the Government had ratified it by the institution of legal proceedings to enforce the forfeiture; that
the search and seizure having been illegal, knowledge
gained as a result of the illegal search could not be put in
evidence, Weeks v. United States, 232 U. S. 383; and
that the 'testimony of the deputy surveyor and of the
boatswain was wrongly admitted.
55514-28-36

662

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

The Government contends that the Coast Guard has
authority to visit, search and seize an American vessel
on the high seas beyond the twelve-mile limit when
probable cause exists to believe that our law is being violated; that it has authority also to arrest persons on such
vessel who there is reason to believe are engaged in
committing a felony; that here probable cause was shown
that the crime, a felony, was being committed; that if
any search, within the meaning of the Constitution, was
made of the motor boat before she reached port, it was
valid as an incident of a lawful arrest of persons who
the officer had reasonable cause to believe were engaged
in committing a felony; that the constitutional prohibition against search and seizure without a warrant is not
applicable to this small motor boat which does not appear
to have been used as a place of residence; and that it
does not appear that any search was, in fact, made before
the motor boat was examined in Boston by the deputy
surveyor, within the territorial limits of the United
States, where search is clearly valid.
In the main the contentions of the Government are
in our opinion well founded. Officers of the Coast Guard
are authorized, by virtue of Revised Statutes, § 3072, to
seize on the high seas beyond the twelve-mile limit an
American vessel subject to forfeiture for violation of any
law respecting the revenue. Maul v. United States [The
Underwriter], ante, p. 501. From that power it is fairly
to be inferred that they are likewise authorized to board
and search such vessels when there is probable cause to
believe them subject to seizure for violation of revenue
laws, and to arrest persons thereon engaged in such violation. Compare Fordv. UnitedStates, 273 U. S. 593, 609616. The authority asserted is not as broad as the
belligerent right to visit and search even without probable

UNITED STATES v. LEE.
559

Opinion of the Court.

cause. Compare The Marianna Flora, 11 Wheat. 1, 42.
In the case at bar, there was probable cause to believe
that our revenue laws were being violated by an American vessel and the persons thereon, in such manner as to
render the vessel subject to forfeiture. Under such circumstances, search and seizure of the vessel, and arrest
of the persons thereon, by the Coast Guard on the high
seas is lawful, as like search and seizure of an automobile, and arrest of the persons therein, by prohibition
officers on land is lawful. Compare Carroll v. United
States, 267 U. S. 132, 149. As the Coast Guard was
authorized to seize the motor boat, the search of her by
the deputy surveyor within the territory of the United
States was, in any event, authorized under § 581 of the
Tariff Act of 1922. The failure of the Government to
institute thereafter proceedings for forfeiture of the motor
boat and the liquor did not, by retroaction, render illegal either the seizure or the search.
Moreover search, if any, of the motor boat at sea did
not violate the Constitution, for it was -made by the
boatswain as an incident of a lawful arrest. Agnello v.
Unite*d States, 269 U. S. 20, 30. But no search on the
high seas is shown. The testimony of the boatswain
shows that he used a searchlight. Ii is not shown that
there was any exploration below decks or under hatches.
For aught that appears, the cases of liquor were on deck
and, like the defendants, were discovered before the
motor boat was boarded. Such use of a searchlight is
comparable to the use of a marine glass or a field glass.
It is not prohibited by the Constitution. Compare
Hester v. United States, 265 U. S. 57. A later trespass
by the officers, if any, did not render inadmissible in evidence knowledge legally obtained. McGuire v. United
States, 273 U. S. 95.
Reversed.

