CLINE v. FRINK DAIRY CO.
434

445

Statement of the Case.

all lands of the judgment debtor lying in the counties
within the respective jurisdictions of the two federal district courts in that State. This requires a reversal in this
case of the judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri.
The cause is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
CLINE, DISTRICT ATTORNEY, v. FRINK DAIRY
COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE

DISTRICT OF COLORADO.

No. 304. Argued April 29, 1927.-Decided May 31, 1927.
1. A federal court of equity may enjoin state criminal proceedings
under a statute alleged to be unconstitutional when their prevention is essential to the safeguarding of rights of property, and
when the circumstances are exceptional and the danger of irreparable loss is both great and immediate. P. 451.
2. The injunction can not be supported, however, in so far as it
embraces proceedings pending in the state criminal court which
were instituted before the suit was begun. P. 452.
3. The Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment imnposes
upon the States the obligation of so framing their criminal statutes
that those to whom they are addressed may know what standard
of conduct is intended to be required. P. 458.
4. The Colorado Anti-Trust Law denounces and punishes conspiracies
and combinations, in restraint of trade; to fix prices; prevent competition, etc.; except when necessary in order to enable participants
to obtain a reasonable profit from products dealt in, etc. Held
that the exception leaves the statute without a fixed standard of
guilt rendering it void. P. 453.
Reversed in part; affirmed in part.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court, three judges

sitting, permanently enjoining the appellant District Attorney from enforcing the Colorado Anti-Trust Law
against the plaintiff dairy corporations and individuals.

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Appelant.

274 U. S.

Mr. Jean S. Breitenstein, with whom Messrs. William
L. Boatright,PaulM. Segal, and A. L. Betke were on the
brief, for appellant.
Federal courts do not enjoin the further prosecution of
pending criminal cases in state courts. Rev. Stats., § 720;
Jud. Code, § 265. It is contrary to the rules of equity.
Essanay Mfg. Co. v. Kane, 258 U. S. 358, and cases cited.
The proceeding in the Colorado court was pending and
set for trial at the time the suit was instituted in the
court below. See Ex parte Sawyer, 124 U. S. 200; Story,
Eq. Jurisprudence, § 893; Harkraderv. Wadley, 172 U. S.
148; Fitts v. McGee, 172 U. S. 516; Ex parte Young, 209
U. S. 123, 162; Davis Mfg. Co. v. Los Angeles, 189 U. S.
207.
The Colorado Anti-Trust Law does not violate the
equal protection of the laws clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment by exempting labor and agricultural products. Int. Harvester Co. v. Missouri, 234 U. S. 199, 210;
Duplex Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443, 469.
Public policy requires the exemption of coperative
marketing associations from anti-trust laws. Rifle Potato
Growers v. Smith, 78 Colo. 171; Nor. Wis. Tobacco Pool
v. Bekkedal, 182 Wis. 571.
Neither does it violate the Fourteenth Amendment on
the ground that it fails to establish an ascertainable
standard of guilt. A state statute is not unconstitutional
because wanting in certainty when the provisions complained of as uncertain employ words or phrases having
a well settled common-law meaning, notwithstanding an
element of degree in the definition as to which estimates
might differ. Connally v. Gen. Const. Co., 269 U. S. 385;
Hygrade Prov. Co. v. Sherman, 266 U. S. 497; Nash v.
United States, 229 U. S. 373. The proviso here complained of is merely a legislative declaration of the rule of
reason laid down by Chief Justice White in the Standard
Oil Co., case, 221 U. S. 1, 60-65, for the interpretation

LINE v. FRINK DAIRY CO.
445

Argument for Appellees.

and application of the Sherman Anti-Trust Law. It is
plain that combinations which come within this proviso
would not be against a public policy or in restraint of
trade and hence would not be indictable either under
the common law or under the Sherman Act, while combinations which do not come within this exception are
illegal because in restraint of trade and against public
policy.
The Colorado legislature has merely attempted to incorporate the standard laid down by the common law, and
established by this Court to guide prosecutions under the
Sherman Act. The Colorado Supreme Court has so interpreted this law. Campbell v. People, 72 Colo. 213.
It is settled that an anti-trust law dependent upon such
rule of reason can be the basis of a criminal prosecution.
Nash v. United States, 229 U. S. 373; Waters Oil Co. v.
Texas, 212 U. S. 86, 109. Distinguishing, United States
v. Cohen Grocery Co., 255 U. S. 81; Int. HarvesterCo. v.
Kentucky, 234 U. S. 216.
Messrs. Hudson Moore and Ernest B. Fowler, with
whom Mr. A. J. Fowler was on the brief, for appellees.
A criminal statute must define the crime with certainty
and furnish an ascertainable standard of guilt to guide
and inform the public what it is their duty to avoid, and
if the statute fails to do this, and delegates to a jury the
fixing of the test or standard, it is lacking in due process,
unconstitutional, and void. Connally v. Gen. Const. Co.,
269 U. S. 385; United States v. Trenton Potteries Co.,
273 U. S. 392; Yu Cong Eng v. Trinidad, 271 U. S. 500;
United States v. Cohen Grocery Co., 255 U. S. 81; Int.
Harvester Co. v. Kentucky, 234 U. S. 216; Collins v. Kentucky, 234 U. S. 634; United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214;
United States v. Brewer, 139 U. S. 278; Tozer v. United
States, 52 Fed. 917; L. & N. Ry. Co. v. R. R. Comm., 19
Fed. 679; Railway Co. v. Dey, 35 Fed. 866; L. & N. Ry.

449

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Appellees.

274 U. S.

Co. v. Commonwealth, 99 Ky. 132; Hayes v. State, 11 Ga.
App. 371. Distinguishing, Nash v. United States, 229
U. S. 373; Waters Oil Co. v. Texas, 212 U. S. 86.
The Colorado Anti-Trust Act sets up a new test or
standard of criminality which was unknown to the common law. There are no decisions furnishing any standard
or test to determine what is a reasonable profit. It is one
thing to determine whether a given course of action constitutes a reasonable restraint of trade, while it is quite
another thing to determine whether or not a reasonable
profit has been made.
The act denies appellees the equal protection of the
laws. Connolly v. Union Pipe Co., 183 U. S. 540. The
holding in this case has been repeatedly approved in subsequent decisions of this court. Cox v. Texas, 202 U. S.
446; Ozan Lumber Co. v. Bank, 207 U. S. 251; Int. Harvester Co. v. Missouri, 234 U. S. 199; Otis v. Gassman,
187 U. S. 606; Billings v. Illinois, 188 U. S. 97; Missouri
v. Dockery, 191 U. S. 165; Dobbins v. Los Angeles, 195
U. S. 223; Cook v. Marshall Co., 196 U. S. 261; Halter v.
Nebraska, 205 U. S. 34; Cont. Paper Co. v. Voight, 212
U. S. 227; Singer Co. v. Brickell, 233 U. S. 305; Truax v.
Corrigan, 257 U. S. 312; Radice v. New York, 264
U. S. 292.
A federal court will enjoin the enforcement of an unconstitutional state statute where property rights are
invaded. Tyson v. Banton, 273 U. S. 418; Packard v.
Banton, 264 U. S. 140; Terrace v. Thompson, 263 U. S.
197; Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33; Philadelphiav. Stimson, 223 U. S. 605; Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123; Dobbins. v. Los Angeles, 195 U. S. 223; Davis v. Los Angeles,
189 U. S. 207; Reagan v. Farmers L. & T. Co., 154 U. S.
362. Distinguishing, Essanay Mfg. Co. v. Kane, 258
U. S. 358; Fennerv. Boykin, 271 U. S. 240; Harkraderv.
Wadley, 172 U. S. 148; Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123.

CLINE v. FRINK DAIRY CO.
445

Opinion of the Court.

Under the issues made by the pleadings, the right to
enjoin the pending proceeding is not before the court.
Connally v. Gen. Const. Co., 269 U. S. 385; Gen. Inv. Co.
v. Lake Shore Ry., 250 Fed. 160; Livingston v. Storey,
9 Pet. 632; Pacific R. R. Co. v. Mo. Pacific R. R., 111
U. S. 509; Stewart v. Masterson, 131 U. S. 151. As the
bill stated a cause of action for relief .against the threatened activities of appellant, there was no error in the lower
court's denial of the motion to dismiss. The further
question of whether or not the lower court should enjoin
him from prosecuting the pending criminal proceeding
was not an issue raised by the general motion to dismiss
and is not a question to be determined by this Court,
upon appeal.
MR. CHaIEF JusTIcE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a direct appeal under § 238 of the Judicial Code,
as amended by the Act of February 13, 1925, c. 229, 43
Stat. 936, from a final decree of the United States District Court of Colorado, three Judges sitting, granting a
permanent injunction against the enforcement by a state
officer of a state law, on the ground of its unconstitutionality. The bill was brought by the Frink Dairy Company, the Windsor Farm Dairy Company and the Climax
Dairy Company, corporations of Colorado, and iH. Brown
Cannon, Clarence Frink, A. T. McClintock and Morris
Robinson, citizens and residents of the same State, against
Foster Cline, the District Attorney for the City and
County of Denver, Colorado.
The bill alleges that the suit involves for decision the
question of the validity under the Constitution of the
United States of what is known as the Colorado AntiTrust Act, being chapter 161 of the Session Laws of the
State of Colorado, for 1913, approved April 17th of that
55514°-28--29

450

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

year. It avers that the three dairy companies have been
separately conducting for years, in Denver, Colorado, and
its vicinity, the sale and distribution of milk, butter and
all manner of dairy products; that each has invested in
its business more than $100,000; that they are also engaged in interstate commerce, buying and selling from
without the limits of the State; that the individual plaintiffs, Cannon, Frink and Morrison, are respectively officers
and stockholders of the three plaintiff companies; that
McClintock, the other individual plaintiff, is an officer
and stockholder of the Beatrice Creamery Company, a
corporation of Delaware, also in the dairy business in
Denver; that the individual plaintiffs, experienced dairymen, by painstaking effort, fair dealing, and careful management, have gained thousands of customers, and a wellestablished trade, and that their companies, in addition
to their tangible property and assets, have good wills of
great value. The bill sets out in full the Colorado AntiTrust law, which punishes as a crime combinations of
persons and corporations to restrain trade or commerce,
with certain exceptions, and makes it the duty of the
defendant, the District Attorney, to prosecute alleged
violations thereof and to institute actions for forfeiture
of charters of associations engaged therein. All contracts violating the act are avoided; violation of the act
is made a good defense to a suit for merchandise that was
sold in pursuance of a combination under it; and a right
of action for damages against the combiners is given to
any one injured by the combination. One charge of the
bill, among others, is that the act violates the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution, in that it deprives the
plaintiffs of their liberty without due process of law, because it is indefinite and uncertain and fails to fix any
informing standard of criminality.
The bill alleges that Foster Cline, the defendant, in
his capacity as district attorney of Denver City and

CLINE v. FRINK DAIRY CO.
445

Opinion of the Court.

County, has been, and still is, claiming that the plaintiffs
and their competitors have been and now are acting in
violation of the Anti-Trust law; that he has caused an
information to be filed in the criminal division of the
District Court of the City and County of Denver, in
which the plaintiffs and the Beatrice Creamery Company,
a Delaware corporation, are charged with conspiracy to
violate the Anti-Trust Act;, that he expects to press the
case to trial; that, since the case was instituted, the grand
jury has been in session and many witnesses summoned
and questioned about the plaintiffs' milk business; that
the defendant Cline has threatened, and unless restrained
by the court will institute, further prosecutions, file further informations and attempt to procure indictments of
the plaintiffs by the grand jury; and that Cline, by this
multiplicity of criminal suits and prosecutions, as well as
by the civil suits for forfeiture of the corporate plaintiffs'
charters he has threatened to bring, has already inflicted
serious loss to the businesses and properties of the plaintiffs, and that they will be irreparably and immeasurably
damaged thereby unless he is restrained.
A motion to dismiss was made by the defendant, on
the ground that the bill presented no case for equitable
relief. On the hearing before the three judges, a preliminary injunction was issued and the motion to dismiss
was denied. The defendant standing upon his motion
to dismiss, and declining to plead further, a decree for a
permanent injunction was entered, and this is an appeal
from that decree.
The first question is whether the practice and precedents in equity justified the granting of relief by injunction, where one criminal prosecution had been begun and
where many others, together with suits for forfeiture of
corporate franchises, were threatened. The general rule
is that a court of equity is without jurisdiction to restrain
criminal proceedings to try the same right that is in issue

452

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

before it; but an exception to this rule exists when the
prevention of such prosecutions under alleged- unconstitutional enactments is essential to the safeguarding of rights
of property, and when the circumstances are exceptional
and the danger of irreparable loss is both great and immediate. Fenner v. Boykin, 271 U. S. 240, 243; Packard
v. Banton, 264 U. S. 140; Hygrade Provision Co. v. Sherman, 266 U. S. 497, 502; Terrace v. Thompson, 263 U. S.
197, 214; Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123; Davis & Farnum Mfg. Co. v. Los Angeles, 189 U. S. 207, 218; Dobbins
v. Los Angeles, 195 U. S. 223, 236, 241; In re Sawyer, 124
U. S. 200, 209, 211.
The affidavits in support of the bill were very full in
their showing that the District Attorney, by his action
and threats, had already greatly injured the plaintiffs'
properties and their businesses. They present a case in
which the question of the validity of the Act under
which, if invalid, great injuries to properties and businesses are being unjustly inflicted, should be promptly
settled. We think the basis for equitable jurisdiction is
made sufficiently clear.
It is objected, however, that the injunction can not be
supported under the authorities, in so far as it is directed
against actual proceedings pending in the criminal court.
One of the District Judges below dissented from this part
of the decree. Of course the injunction is not only
against actual prosecution but is also against a multiplicity of future suits and the threatened proceedings for
forfeiture, by which the District Attorney proposes to end
the businesses of all the plaintiffs, and the objection
would only lead to a narrowing of the decree. The majority in the District Court were influenced by a remark
of this Court in Davis & Farnum Company v. Los Angeles, supra, in speaking of a bill to restrain invasion of
rights of property by the enforcement of an unconstitutional law, in which the Court said:

CLINE v. FRINK DAIRY CO.
445

Opinion of the Court.

"It would seem that, if there were jurisdiction in a
court of equity to enjoin the invasion of property rights
through the instrumentality of an unconstitutional law,
that jurisdiction would not be ousted by the fact that the
State had chosen to assert its power to enforce such law
by indictment or other criminal proceeding."
This semble does not seem to have received the approval of the Court in Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123,
where it was said:
"It is further objected (and the objection really forms
part of the contention that the State cannot be sued)
that a court of equity has no jurisdiction to enjoin criminal proceedings, by indictment or otherwise, under the
state law. This, as a general rule, is true. But there
are exceptions. When such indictment or proceeding is
brought to enforce an alleged unconstitutional statute,
which is the subject matter of inquiry in a suit already
pending in a Federal court, the latter court having first
obtained jurisdiction over the subject matter, has the
right, in both civil and criminal cases, to hold and maintain such jurisdiction, to the exclusion of all other courts,
until its duty is fully performed. Prout v. Starr, 188
U. S. 537, 544. But the Federal court cannot, of course,
interfere in a case where the proceedings were already
pending in a state court. Taylor v. Taintor, 16 Wall.
366, 370; Harkraderv. Wadley, 172 U. S. 148."
We, therefore, agree with the view of the dissenting
Judge that the injunction is too broad, in so far as it
restrains proceedings actually pending, and that it must
be accordingly modified.
This brings us to the consideration of the constitutionality of the Anti-Trust Act. We think that the act
is so vague and uncertain in its description of what shall
constitute its criminal violations that it is invalid under
the Fourteenth Amendment. It in this respect violates
due process and can not be distinguished from the case

451

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

of United States v. Cohen Grocery Company, 255 U. S.
81. The law there under consideration was the fourth
section of the Lever Act, re-enacted in 1919, Act of October 22, 1919, c. 80, § 2, 41 Stat. 297. It provided as
follows:
I"That it is hereby made unlawful for any person willfully . . . to make any unjust or unreasonable rate
or charge in handling or dealing in or with any necessaries; to conspire, combine, agree, or arrange with any
other person . . . to exact excessive prices for any
necessaries . . . Any person violating any of the provisions of this section upon conviction thereof shall be
fined not exceeding $5,000 or be imprisoned for not more
than two years, or both."
This Court said:
"The sole remaining inquiry, therefore, is the certainty
or uncertainty of the text in question, that is, whether the
words 'That it is hereby made unlawful for any person
willfully . . . to make any unjust or unreasonable
rate or charge in handling or dealing in or with any
necessaries,' constituted A fixing by Congress of'an ascertainable standard of guilt and are adequate to inform
persons accused of violation thereof of the nature and
cause of the accusation against them. That they are not,
we are of opinion, so clearly results from their mere statement as to render elaboration on the subject wholly unnecessary. Observe that the section forbids no specific or
definite act. It confines the subject-matter of the investigation which it authorizes to no element essentially inhering in the transaction as to which it provides. It leaves
open, therefore, the widest conceivable inquiry, the scope
of which no one can foresee and the result of which no
one can foreshadow or adequately guard against. In
fact, we see no reason to doubt the soundness of the observation of the court below, in its opinion, to the effect

CLINE v. FRINK DAIRY CO.
445

Opinion of the Court.

that, to attempt to enforce the section would be the
exact equivalent of an effort to carry out a statute which
in terms merely penalized and punished all acts detrimental to the public interest when unjust and unreasonable in the estimation of the court and jury."
The opinion cites in support of its conclusion, United
States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214, 219-220; United States v.
Brewer, 139 U. S. 278, 288; Todd v. United States, 158
U. S. 278, 282; United States v. Sharp, 27 Fed. Cases,
1041, 1043; Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co. v. Dey,
35 Fed. 866, 876; Tozer v. United States, 52 Fed. 917,
919-920; United States v. Capital Traction Co., 34 App.
D. C. 592; United States v. PennsylvaniaR. R. Co., 22
U. S. 208, 237-238; also International Harvester Company v. Kentucky, 234 U. S. 216, 221; Collins v. Kentucky, 234 U. S.634, 637; American Seeding Machine
Company v. Kentucky, 236 U. S. 660, 662.
The Colorado Anti-Trust law denounces conspiracies
and combinations of persons and corporations, 1st, to
create and carry out restrictions in trade or commerce
preventing the full and free pursuit of any lawful business
in the State; 2d, to increase or reduce the price of merchandise, products or commodities; 3rd, to prevent competition in the making, transportation, sale or purchase of
commodities or merchandise; 4th, to fix any standard of
figures whereby the price shall be controlled or established; 5th, to make or execute any contract or agreement to bind the participants not to sell below a common
standard, or to keep the price of the article at a fixed or
graded figure, or establish or settle the price between
themselves so as to preclude a free and unrestricted competition among themselves, or to pool, combine or unite
any interest they may have in such business of making,
selling or transporting that the price of the article may be
affected. The foregoing language sufficiently describes

456

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

for purposes of a criminal statute the acts which it intends
to punish; but the Colorado law does not stop with that:
it is accompanied by two provisos which materially affect
its purport and effect. They are as follows:
"And all such combinations are hereby declared to be
against public policy, unlawful and void; provided that
no agreement or association shall be deemed to be unlawful or within the provisions of this act, the object and
purposes of which are to conduct operations at a reasonable profit or to market at a reasonable profit those products which can not otherwise be so marketed; provided
further that it shall not be deemed to be unlawful, or
within the provisions of this act, for persons, firms, or
corporations engaged in the business of selling or manufacturing commodities of a similar or like character to
employ, form, organize or own any interest in any association, firm, or corporation having as its object or purpose the transportation, marketing or delivering of such
commodities;
The effect of the first proviso is that combinations,
with the purposes defined in the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 5th
paragraphs of § 1, and declared thereby to be unlawful
and void, are not to be regarded as unlawful if their purpose shall be to obtain only a reasonable profit in such
products or merchandise as can not yield a reasonable
profit except by marketing them under the combinations
previously condemned. The second is like the first in
declaring that it shall not be unlawful or within the condemnatory provisions of the Act for persons engaged in
the business of selling or manufacturing commodities of
a class that can only be dealt with at a reasonable profit
by such previously condemned trust methods, to employ
or own interests in an association having as its object the
transportation, marketing or delivering of such commodities at a reasonable profit. These provisos make the line

CLINE v. FRINK DAIRY CO.
445

Opinion of the Court.

between lawfulness and criminality to depend upon, first
what commodities need to be handled according to the
trust methods condemned in the first part of the Act to
enable those engaged in dealing in them to secure a reasonable profit therefrom; second, to determine what generally would be a reasonable profit for such a business;
and third, what would be a reasonable profit for the defendant under the circumstances of his particular business. It would, therefore, be a complete defense for the
defendant to prove in this case that it is impossible to
sell milk or milk products, except by trust methods and
make a reasonable profit, if he also showed that by such
methods he had in fact only made a reasonable profit.
We have examined the opinions of the Supreme Court
of Colorado in reference to the construction and operation of these provisos in the Colorado Anti-Trust law.
Campbell v. The People, 72 Colo., 213; Johnson v. The
People, Id., 218; People v. Apostolos, 73 Colo., 71; and
we find nothing there which is in conflict with our construction of them. Such an exception in the statute
leaves the whole statute without a fixed standard of
guilt in an adjudication affecting the liberty of the one
accused. An attempt to enforce the section will be to
penalize and punish all combinations in restraint of trade
in a commodity when in the judgment of the court and
jury they are not necessary to enable those engaged in
it to make it reasonably profitable, but not otherwise.
Such a basis for judgment of a crime would be more
impracticable and complicated than the much simpler
question in the Cohen Grocery case, whether a price
charged was unreasonable or excessive. The teal issue
which the proviso would submit to the jury would be
legislative, not judicial. To compel defendants to guess
on the peril of an indictment whether one or more of
the restrictions of the statute will destroy all profit or

458

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

reduce it below what would be reasonable, would tax the
human ingenuity in much the same way as that which
this Court refused to allow as a proper standard of
criminality in International Harvester Company v. Kentucky, 234 U. S. 216, 232, 233.
The Cohen case was a violation of a federal law and
involved the Fifth and Sixth Amendments, the first providing that no person shall be deprived of life, liberty
or property without due process of law, and the second
that in all criminal prosecutions the accused shall enjoy
the right to be informed of the nature and cause of the
accusation. We are now considering a case of state legislation and threatened prosecutions in a state court where
only the Fourteenth Amendment applies; but that amendment requires that there should be due process of law, and
this certainly imposes upon a State an obligation to frame
its criminal statutes so that those to whom they are
addressed may know what standard of conduct is intended
to be required. And such is the effect of our cases.
Connally v. General Construction Company, 269 U. S.
385; InternationalHarvester Company v. Kentucky, 234
U. S. 216; Collins v. Kentucky, 234 U. S. 634; American
Seeding Machine Company v. Kentucky, 236 U. S. 660;
Waters-PierceOil Company v. Texas, 212 U. S. 86; Fox v.
Washington, 236 U. S. 273; Omaechevarriav'. Idaho, 246
U. S. 343; Miller v. Strahl, 239 U. S. 426; Tedrow v.
Lewis & Son. Co., 255 U. S. 98; Weeds, Inc. v. United
States, 255 U. S. 109, and Kinnane v. Detroit Creamery
Co., 255 U. S. 102.
In the latest of the foregoing cases, Connally v. General
Construction Company, 269 U. S. 385, 391, the validity
of a statute of Oklahoma providing that not more than
the current rate of per diem wages in the locality where
the work was performed should be paid to laborers,
workmen, mechanics, prison guards, janitors in public
institutions or other persons so employed by and on behalf

CLINE v. FRINK DAIRY CO.
445

459

Opinion of the Court.

of the State, was before us. We held that the provision
contained no ascertainable standard of guilt-that it
could not be determined with any degree of certainty
what sum constituted a current wage in such locality
because the term locality under the circumstances of that
case was fatally vague and uncertain. We said (p. 391):
"That the terms of a penal statute creating a new
offense must be sufficiently explicit to inform those who
are subject to it what conduct on their part will render
them liable to its penalties, is a well-recognized requirement, consonant alike with ordinary notions of fair play
and the settled rules of law. And a statute which either'
forbids or requires the doing of an act in terms so vague
that men of common intelligence must necessarily guess
at its meaning and differ as to its application, violates the
first essential of due process of law.
"The question whether given legislative enactments
have been thus wanting in certainty has frequently been
before this court. In some of the cases the statutes
involved were upheld; in others, declared invalid. The
precise point of differentiation in some instances is not
easy of statement. But it will be enough for present
purposes to say generally that the decisions of the court
upholding statutes as sufficiently certain, rested upon the
conclusion that they employed words or phrases having
a technical or other special meaning, well enough known
to enable those within their reach to correctly apply them,
Hygrade Provision Co. v. Sherman, 266 U. S. 497, 502;
Omaechevarriav. Idaho, 246 U. S. 343, 348, or a wellsettled common law meaning, notwithstanding an element of degree in the definition as to which estimates
might differ, Nash v. United States, 229 U. S. 373, 376;
InternationalHarvester Co. v. Kentucky, supra, p. 223,
or, as broadly stated by Mr. Chief Justice White in
United States v. Cohen Grocery Co., 255 U. S. 81, 92,
'that, for reasons found to result either from the text

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

of the statutes involved or the subjects with which they
dealt, a standard of some sort was afforded.'"
The chief authority upon which counsel for the appellant rely is the case of Nash v. United States, 229 U. S.
373, 376. That case involved the question whether the
Sherman Anti-Trust law, in making criminal every contract and all monopolies in restraint of interstate trade or
commerce, fixed a permissible and ascertainable standard
of guilt. It was held that it did. Because this Colorado
act is an anti-trust law punishing with. even more detail
of description all combinations in restraint of trade in
-Colorado, with the excepting provisos, it is supposed that
the Nash case has direct application and supports the
claim of validity for the Act. It is first to be noted that
the Court, in its consideration of the Cohen case, had
before it the Nash case, and found nothing in that case
inconsistent with its Cohen case ruling.
In the Nash case we held that the common law precedents as to what constituted an undue restraint of trade
were quite specific enough to advise one engaged in interstate trade and commerce what he could and could not
do under the statute. In commenting on and affirming
the Nash case, this Court said in InternationalHarvester
Company v. Kentucky, 234 U. S.216,223:
"The conditions are as permanent as anything human,
and a great body of precedents on the civil side coupled
with familiar practice make it comparatively easy . .
to keep to what is safe."
The common law precedents as to forbidden and permissible restraints of trade were reviewed at great length
by the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Sixth Circuit in
a case under the federal Anti-Trust Act, in United States
v. Addyston Pipe Company, 85 Fed. 271. It subsequently came to this Court, and is reported in the 175th
United States, 211. The Federal Anti-Trust Act declares
every contract, combination in the form of trust or other-

CLINE v. FRINK DAIRY CO.
445

Opinion of the Court.

wise, or conspiracy in restraint of interstate trade to be
illegal and every one taking part in it to be guilty of
a misdemeanor. In United States v. Trans-Missouri
Freight Association, 166 U. S. 290 and United States v.
Joint Traffic Association, 171 U. S. 505, the opinions of
the Court left the impression among many that every contract in restraint of trade, no matter whether lawful and
reasonable or void aild unenforceable at common law, was
within the penalty of the statute. Such a conclusion was
not necessary to the decision, and it was quite evident
when the opinions were analyzed that it was recognized
in their text that there were incidental restraints of trade
that the statute was not intended to cover. This was
made clear by the later decision in Cincinnati Packet
Company v. Bay, 200 U. S. 179. The view was fully confirmed in Standard Oil Company v. United States, 221
U. S. 1, and United States v. American Tobacco Company, 221 U. S. 106, where the language of the Federal
statute was read in the light of the common law, and in
accordance with its reason, and was construed not to
penalize such partial restraints of trade as at common
law were not only permitted but were promoted in the
interest of the freedom of trade itself.
The review of the many common law precedents as to
due and undue restraints of trade shows that in only one
or two cases, and those not well considered, was there left
to the court or jury as a criterion of the validity of a
restraint of trade the reasonableness of the prices fixed
or the profit realized under it.
In the Addyston case, supra, which involved a scheme
for fixing prices, this Court quoted with approval the following passage from the lower court's opinion (85 Fed.
271, 293):
c.
the affiants say that, in their opinion, the
prices at which pipe has been sold by defendants have
been reasonable, We do not think the issue an impor-

462

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

tant one, because, as already stated, we do not think that
at common law there is any question of reasonableness
open to the courts with reference to such a contract."
In the same case the Circuit Court of Appeals, referring to cases in restraint of trade, said (pp. 283 and 284):
"But these cases all involved contracts in which the
covenant in restraint of trade was ancillary to the main
and lawful purpose of the contract, and was necessary
to the protection of the covenantee in the carrying out of
that main purpose. They do not manifest any general
disposition on the part of the courts to be more liberal
in supporting contracts having for their sole object the
restraint of trade than did the courts of an earlier time.
It is true that there are some cases in which the courts,
mistaking, as we conceive, the proper limits of the relaxation of the rules for determining the unreasonableness of
restraints of trade, have set sail on a sea of doubt, and
have assumed the power to say, in respect to contracts
which have no other purpose and no other consideration
on either side than the mutual restraint of the parties,
how much restraint of competition is in the public interest, and how much is not.
"The manifest danger in the administration of justice
according to so shifting, vague, and indeterminate a standard would seem to be a strong reason against adopting it."
This same view, when directed to the question of judging restraints of trade by reference to reasonableness of
prices effected by the restraint is confirmed by the latest
decision of this Court on the subject in United States v.
Trenton Potteries Company, 273 U. S. 392, where it was

said:
" The aim and result of every price-fixing agreement, if
effective, is the elimination of one form of competition.

The power to fix prices, whether reasonably exercised or
not, involves power to control the market and to fix arbitrary and unreasonable prices. The reasonable price fixed

CLINE v. FRINK DAIRY CO.
445

Opinion of the Court.

today may through economic and business changes become the unreasonable price of tomorrow. Once established, it may be maintained unchanged because of the
absence of competition secured by the agreement for a
price reasonable when fixed. Agreements which create
such potential power may well be held to be in themselves
unreasonable or unlawful restraints, without the necessity of minute inquiry whether a particular price is reasonable or unreasonable as fixed and without placing on
the government in enforcing the Sherman Law the burden of ascertaining from day to day whether it has become unreasonable through the mere variation of economic conditions. Moreover, in the absence of express
legislation requiring it, we should hesitate to adopt a
construction making the difference between legal and
illegal conduct in the field of business relations depend
upon so uncertain a test as whether prices are reasonable-a determination which can be satisfactorily made
only after a complete survey of our economic organization and a choice between rival philosophies."
This review, showing what was the standard of criminality in the Federal Anti-Trust law, indicates clearly
that the decision in the Cohen Grocery case was not inconsistent with the Nash case, because the latter did not
relate to the reasonableness or excessiveness of prices
charged for necessaries, without more, as a basis for criminality, while the former plainly did. The same reasons
show that there is nothing inconsistent between the Cohen case and that of Waters-Pierce Oil Company v.
Texas, 212 U. S. 86.
The principle of due process of law requiring reasonable
certainty of description in fixing a standard for exacting
obedience from a person in advance has application as
well in civil as in criminal legislation, Small Company v.
American Sugar Refining Company, 267 U. S. 233, 238,
et seq.; but the fact that it is often necessary to investi-

464

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

gate and decide certain questions in civil cases is not controlling or persuasive as to whether persons may be held
to civil or criminal liability for not deciding them rightly
in'advance. On questions of confiscatory rates for public
utilities, for instance, courts must examine in great detail
the circumstances and reach a conclusion as to a reasonable profit. But this does not justify in such a case
holding the average member of society in advance to a
rule of conduct measured by his judgment and action in
respect to what is a reasonable price or a reasonable
profit. It is true that, on an issue like negligence, i. e.,
a rule of conduct for the average man in the avoidance
of injury to his neighbors, every one may be held to
observe it either on the civil or criminal side of the court.
It is a standard of human conduct which all are reasonably charged with knowing and which must be enforced
against every one in order that society can safely exist.
We said in the Nash case (p. 877), "But apart from the
common law as to restraint of trade thus taken up by
the statute the law is full of instances where a man's
fate depends on his estimating rightly, that is, as the jury
subsequently estimates it, some matter of degree. If his
judgment is wrong, not only may he incur a fine or a short
imprisonment, as here; he may incur the penalty of
death. 'An act causing death may be murder, manslaughter, or misadventure according to the degree of
danger attending it' by common experience in the circumstances known to the actor.

.

.

'The criterion in

such cases is to examine whether common social duty
would, under the circumstances, have suggested a more
circumspect conduct.' 1 East P. C. 262 ". Following the
authority in the Nash case, we sustained in Miller v.
Oregon, per curiam, 273 U. S. 657, a conviction of manslaughter under a statute of Oregon, which made the
following rule of conduct a standard of criminality:

CLINE v. FRINK DAIRY CO.
445

Opinion of the Court.

"Every person operating a motor vehicle on the public
highways of this state shall drive the same in a careful
and prudent manner, not to exceed thirty miles per hour,
and within the limit of incorporated cities and towns not
to exceed twenty miles per hour, and at intersections
and schoolhouses not to exceed twelve miles per hour,
and in no case at a rate of speed that will endanger the
property of another, or the life or limb of any person."
(Ch. 371, General Laws of Oregon, 1921, § 2,. sub-division

16.)
The indictment was framed under the last clause of
this statute. Such standard for the driver of an automobile on a highway is one to which it is neither harsh
nor arbitrary to hold those criminally who operate such
a possibly dangerous instrument of locomotion, and who
are or ought to be aware of what degree of care is necessary to avoid injury to others under the conditions that
prevail on a highway. See Hess v. Pawloski, ante, p. 352.
But it will not do to hold an average man to the peril
of an indictment for the unwise exercise of his economic
or business knowledge involving so many factors of
varying effect that neither the person to decide in advance nor the jury to try him after the fact can safely
and certainly judge the result. When to a decision
whether a certain amount of profit in a complicated
business is reasonable is added that of determining
whether detailed restriction of particular anti-trust legislation will prevent a reasonable profit in the case of a
given commodity, we have an utterly impracticable
standard for a jury's decision. A legislature must fix the
standard more simply and more definitely before a person
must conform or a jury can act.
We conclude that the Anti-Trust statute of Colorado
is void in that those who are prosecuted and convicted
under it will be denied due process of law.
55514'-28-----30

