FED. TRADE COMM. v. KLESNER.
135

Syllabus.

limitation is something that must rest with the road
supervising authorities of the State, not only on the general constitutional distinction between national and state
powers, but also for the additional reason, having regard
to the argument based on a contract, that under the convention between the United States and the State, in
respect of these jointly aided roads, the maimtenance after
construction is primarily imposed on the State. Regulation as to the method of use, therefore, necessarily remains
with the State and can not be interfered with unless the
regulation is so arbitrary and unreasonable as to defeat
the useful purposes for which Congress has made its large
contribution to bettering the highway systems of the
Union and to facilitating the carrying of the mails over
them. There is no averment of the bill or any showing
by affidavit making out such a case.
The-temporary injunction was rightly refused and the
motion to dismiss the bill was properly granted.
Affirmed.
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. KLESNER.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 211.

Argued March 10, 1927.-Decided April 18, 1927.

The provision of the Federal Trade Commission Act, § 5, conferring
jurisdiction on the Circuit Courts of Appeals to enforce, set aside,
or modify orders of the Commission, should be construed as conferring like jurisdiction upon the Court of Appeals of the District
of Columbia respecting orders to be enforced in that District.
P. 154.
So held in view of the parallelism between the Supreme Court
of the District and the Court of Appeals, as federal courts, on the
one hand, and the District Courts and Circuit Courts of Appeals
on the other; the fact that the jurisdiction to assist the Commission in compelling evidence which the Act confers on the District
55514 -28-

10

146

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Argument for Petitioner.

274 U. S.

Courts is conferred also on the District Supreme Court, through
§ 61 of the Code, D. C.; and the additional consideration that
enforcement of the Act in the District, as intended, is dependent
on the construction of § 5 above indicated.
6 F. (2d) 701, reversed.

CERTIORARI (269 U. S. 545) to a judgment of the Court
of Appeals b the District of Columbia which dismissed,
for want of jurisdiction, an application of the Federal
Trade Commission based on § 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, for a decree to enforce an order of the Commission commanding Klesner to desist from a method of
doing business in the District of Columbia which the Commission found to be an unfair method of competition.
Mr. Adrien. F. Busick, with whom Solicitor General
Mitchell, and Messrs. Bayard T. Hainer,and Charles Melvin Neff were on the brief, for petitioner.
In order to carry out the plain provisions of the statute,
it is necessary that the words "circuits courts of appeals"
should be construed to include the Court of Appeals of
the District of Columbia. To read them otherwise is to
attribute to Congress an intention to make an order of
the Commission directed at unfair competition in commerce in the District of Columbia enforceable if the offending person resides outside of the District and within the
jurisdiction of some Circuit Court of Appeals, but unenforceable if he resides in the District. The statute should
not be construed to produce absurd results, if it may
reasonably be avoided.
If the Court of Appeals of the District was right in the
decision in this case, it will follow that neither the Interstate Commerce Commission, the Federal Reserve Board,
nor the Federal Trade Commission may enforce the provisions of the Clayton Act with respect to commerce in
the District unless the offending person or corporation
resides outside of it.

FED. TRADE COMM. v. KLESNER.
145

Argument for Respondent.

Appellate jurisdiction has been upheld where the language of the statute did not exactly describe the courts
which were ultimately held to have jurisdiction or did not
definitely include the class of cases in which jurisdiction
was held to have been conferred. S. S. Coquitlam v.
United States, 163 U. S. 346; Hoskins v. Funk, 239 Fed.
278; Craigv. Hecht, 263 U. S. 255; Webb v. York, 74 Fed.
753.
The Supreme Court and the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia, and the courts of the Territories
perform those judicial functions that are elsewhere performed by both state and federal courts. For the purpose of enforcing federal statutes of general application,
these courts are a part of the federal judicial system.
But when they are enforcing statutes of local application
only, they have such powers and jurisdiction "as a State
may confer on her courts." Keller v. Pot. Elec. Co., 261
U. S. 428; Benson v. Henkel, 198 U. S. 1; Hyattsville
Bldg. Assn. v. Bouick, 44 App. D. C. 408; United States
v. B. & 0. R. R., 26 App. D. C. 581.
It is not out of accord with the laws establishing its
jurisdiction to hold that the Court of Appeals of the District "of Columbia is a "Circuit Court of Appeals" within
the meaning of the Federal Trade Commission Act.
Since, so far as the general federal laws are concerned, the
jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia is the same as that of the United States District
Courts, the appellate jurisdiction of the Court of Appeals
of the District of Columbia, sitting as a federal appellate
court, is the same in character and functions as that of
the Circuit Courts of Appeals of the United States.
Mr. HarryS. Barger,with whom Mr. Clarence R. Ahalt
was on the brief, for respondent.
The Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia is a
court of the United States; but it is not a constitutional

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

court of the United States in the same sense that the Circuit Courts of Appeals of the United States and the United
States District Courts are constitutional courts, and, in
respects too numerous to mention, it does not possess the
same jurisdiction possessed by the Circuit Courts of Appeals of the United States. Toi say that the Court of
Appeals of the District of Columbia is a " Circuit Court of
Appeals of the United States," without more authority
than is found in the Federal Trade Commission Act, would
be the same as saying that, because Congress has expressly
and in apt language conferred concurrent jurisdiction upon
the United States District Courts and the Court of Claims
in sums not exceeding ten thousand dollars, the District
Courts are Courts of Claims, or that the Court of Claims
is a District Court of the United States. Even if Congress
had used apt language to confer special jurisdiction on the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia to review
decisions of the Federal Trade Commission, that court
would in no sense be a "Circuit Court of Appeals of the
United States." Chapmanv. United States, 164 U. S. 436;
In re Heath, 144 U. S. 92; Cross v. United States, 145
U. S. 572; Farnsworthv. Montana, 129 U. S. 104; United
Staes v. Sanges, 144 U. S. 310; United States v. Moore,
3 Cr. 159.
To demonstrate conclusively that Congress does not regard the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia as
a "Circuit Court of Appeals," reference is made to § 238
of the Judicial Code as well as to § 250 thereof, wherein
radically different provisioris obtain for appeals from the
courts of the United States outside the District of Columbia and those from the courts of the District.
Mu. CBmFi
Court.

JusTicE TAFT delivered the opinion of the

The question presented in this case is whether the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia has, under

FED. TRADE COMM. v. XLESNER.
145

Opinion of the Court.

the Federal Trade Commission Act, 38 Stat. 717, jurisdiction to enforce, set aside or modify orders of the
Federal Trade Commission, entered against persons engaged in commerce within the District of Columbia, requiring them to cease and desist from the use of unfair
methods of competition within the District.
The case, as made before the Commission, was as follows: Klesner, a resident of the District, was engaged,
among other things, in the manufacture and sale of
window shades in the District, doing business under the
name and style of "Shade Shop." For some years prior
to respondent's entry into this business, another establishment had been engaged exclusively in the window
shade business under the same name and style, and had
become well and favorably known to the purchasing public by that name. The charge heard before the Commission was that the respondent, by the use of the name
"Shade Shop," was deceiving the purchasing public into
the belief that his establishment was that of a prior longestablished competitor, and by this means was causing
people to deal with the respondent, in the belief that
they were dealing with his competitor. Klesner answered, denying the charge. Evidence vas received upon
the issues joined, and after argument the Commission
made its report upon the facts and issued an order requiring the respondent to cease and desist from doing
business in the District of Columbia under the name of
"Shade Shop." Klesner failed and refused to obey the
order, and the Commission applied to the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia for a decree of enforcement. That court, without considering the merits of
the case, held that it was without jurisdiction in the
premises, and dismissed the Commission's petition, June
1, 1925, in an opinion reported in 6 F. (2d) 701. A petition for certiorari was granted by this Court October 26,
1925, (269 U. S.545) pursuant to § 240 (a) of the Judi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

cial Code, as amended by the Act of February 13, 1925,
c. 229, 43 Stat. 938.
The ground for the dismissal of this case by the Court
of Appeals was that Congress, in the Trade Commission
Act, had not given jurisdiction to the Court of Appeals
of the District of Columbia over suits brought to enforce
the order of the Commission as it had done in respect
of such suits in the proper circuit courts of appeals. The
pertinent part of the Federal Trade Commission Act
bearing on this question we have set out in the margin.*
* "Sec. 4. That the words defined in this section shall have the following meaning when found in this Act, to wit:
"' Commerce' means commerce among the several States or with
foreign nations, or in any Territory of the United States or in the
District of Columbia, or between any such Territory and another, or
between any such Territory and any State or foreign nation, or
between the District of Columbia and any State or Territory or
foreign nation.
"Sec. 5. That unfair methods of competition in commerce are
hereby declared unlawful.
"The commission is hereby empowered and directed to prevent persons, partnerships, or corporations, except banks, and common carriers subject to the Acts to regulate commerce, from using unfair
methods of competition in commerce.
"Whenever the commission shall have reason to believe that any
such person, partnership, or corporation has been or is using any
unfair method of competition in commerce, and if it shall appear to
the commission that a proceeding by it in respect thereof would be
to the interest of the public, it shall issue and serve upon such person,
partnership, or corporation a complaint stating its charges in that
respect, and containing a notice of a hearing upon a day and at a
place therein fixed at least thirty days after the service of said complaint. The person, partnership, or corporation so complained of
shall have the right to appear at the place and time so fixed and show
cause why an order should not be entered by the commission requiring
such person, partnership, or corporation to cease and desist from the
violation of the law so charged in said complaint.

.

.

.

The tes-

timony in any such proceeding shall be reduced to writing and filed
in the office of the commission. If upon such hearing the commission
shall be of the opinion that the method of competition in question is

FED. TRADE COMM. v. KIESNER.
145

Opinion of the Court.

151

,

The Trade Commission Act was passed by Congress to
prevent persons, partnerships or corporations from using
unfair methods of competition in the commerce which
Congress had the constitutional right to regulate. By
§ 4 of the Act, the commerce to be reached is defined as
including not only commerce between the States, and
with foreign nations and between the District of Columbia and any State or Territory or foreign nation, but
also commerce within the District of Columbia. The
statute is clear in its direction that the Commission shall
prohibited by this Act, it shall make a report in writing in which it
shall state its findings as to the facts, and shall issue and cause to be
served on such person, partnership, or corporation an order requiring
such person, partnership, or corporation to cease and desist fom using
such method of competition. Until a transcript of the record in such,
hearing shall have been filed in a circuit court of appeals of the
United States, as hereinafter provided, the commission may at any
time, upon such notice and in such manner as it shall deem proper,
modify or set aside, in whole or in part, any report or any order
made or issued by it under this section.
"If such person, partnership, or corporation fails or neglects to obey
such order of the commission while the same is in effect, the commission may apply to the circuit court of appeals of the United States,
within any circuit where the method of competition in question was
used or where such person, partnership, or corporation resides or
carries on business, for the enforcement of its order, and shall certify
and file with its application a transcript of the entire record in the
proceeding, including all the testimony taken and the report and order
of the commission. Upon such filing of the application and transcript
the court shall cause notice thereof to -be served upon such person,
partnership, or corporation and thereupon shall have jurisdiction of
the proceeding and of the question determined therein, and shall have
power to make and enter upon the pleadings, testimony, and proceedings set forth in such transcript a decree affirming, modifying, or
setting aside the order of the commission. The findings of the commission as to the facts, if supported by testimony, shall be conclusive.
If either party shall apply to the court for leave to adduce additional
evidence, and shall show to the satisfaction of the court that such
additional evidence is material and that there were reasonable grounds
for the failure to adduce such evidence in the proceeding before the

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

make orders preventing persons engaged in the District
from using the forbidden methods. Therefore the Commission was authorized to make the order which was
made in this case. In § 9 of the Trade Commission
Act, the Commission is given power to require by subpoena the attendance and testimony of witnesses and
the production of documentary evidence relating to any
matter under investigation. And this may be required
from any place in the United States at any designated place of hearing, and in case of disobedience to a
subpoena, the Commission may invoke the aid of any.
court of the United States in requiring such attendance
and testimony. Any of the district courts of the United
States within the jurisdiction of which such inquiry is
carried on, may in case of contumacy or refusal to obey a
commission, the court may order such additional evidence to be taken
before the commission and to be adduced upon the hearing in such
manner and upon such terms and conditions as to the court may
seem proper. The commission may modify its findings as to the
facts, or make new findings, by reason of the additional evidence so
taken, and it shall file such modified or new findings, which, if supported by testimony, shall be conclusive, and its recommendations,
if any, for the modification or setting aside of its original order, with
the return of such additional evidence. The judgment and decree
of the court shall be final, except that the same shall be subject to
review by the Supreme Court upon certiorari as provided in section
two hundred and forty of the Judicial Code.
"The jurisdiction of the circuit court of appeals of the United
States to enforce, set aside, or modify orders of the commission shall
be exclusive.
"Such proceeding in the circuit court of appeals shall be given precedence over other cases pending therein, and shall be in every way
expedited. .
"Sec. 9. That for the purposes of this Act the commission, or its duly
authorized agent or agents, shall at all reasonable times have access
to, for the purpose of examination, and the right to copy any documentary evidence of any corporation being investigated or proceeded
against; and the commission shall have power to require by subpoena
the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of all

FED. TRADE COMM. v. KLESNER.
145

Opinion of the Court.

subpoena issue an order requiring the presence of the
person summoned, and a failure to obey the order may be
punished by the district court as a contempt thereof.
Upon application of the Attorney General, at the request
of the Commission, the district courts shall have jurisdiction to issue writs of mandamus commanding any person
to comply with the provisions of this Act or any order
of the Commission made in pursuance thereof.
By § 61 of the Code of Laws for the District of Columbia, 31 Stat. 1199, the Supreme Court of the District is
given the same powers and the same jurisdiction as district courts of the United States and is to be deemed a
court of the United States, and shall exercise all the jurisdiction of one, and a special term of the court shall be a
district court of the United States. The justices of the
court are vested with the power and jurisdiction of judges
such documentary evidence relating to any matter under investigation. Any member of the commission may sign subpoenas, and members and examiners of the commission may administer oaths and
affirmations, examine witnesses, and receive evidence.
"Such attendance of witnesses, and the production of such documentary evidence, may be required from any place in the United States,
at any designated place of hearing. And in case of disobedience to a
subpoena the commission may invoke the aid of any court of the
United States in requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses
and the production of documentary evidence.
"Any of the district courts of the United States within the jurisdiction of which such inquiry is carried on may, in case of contumacy
or refusal to obey a subpoena issued to any corporation or other
person, issue an order requiring such corporation or other person to
appear before the commission, or to produce documentary evidence
if so ordered, or to give evidence touching the matter in question;
and any failure to obey such order of the court may be punished by
such court as a contempt thereof.
"Upon the application of the Attorney General of the United States,
at the request of the commission, the district courts of the United
States shall have jurisdiction to issue writs of mandamus commanding any person or corporation to comply with the provisions of this
Act or any order of the commission made in pursuance thereof."

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

of the district courts of the United States. Sections 62
and 84, Code of the District of Columbia, 1924. It follows that the Trade Commission could use the Supreme
Court of the District to enforce the procedure needed on
its part to take evidence and thus enable it to reach its
conclusions, and in this could avail itself of the power of
contempt of that court.
It has been the evident intention of Congress that laws
generally applicable to enforcement of what may be called
federal law in the United States generally should have
the same effect within the District of Columbia as elsewhere. For this purpose the courts of the District of
Columbia are federal courts of the United States. Keller
v. Potomac Electric Company, 261 U. S. 428, 442. They
are part of the federal judicial system. In Benson v.
Henkel, 198 U. S. 1, this Court held that the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia was a Court of the United
States and that the District of Columbia was a district
within the meaning of Revised Statutes, § 1014, providing
for the apprehension and holding persons for trial before
such court of the United States. Where the Judicial Code
provides that no writ of injunction shall be granted by any
court of the United States to stay proceedings of any
court of a State, with certain exceptions, the District
Court of Appeals has held that the statute applied to the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia. Hyattsville
Building Assn. v. Bouick, 44 D. C. App. 408. See also,
United States v. B. & 0. R. R., 26 D. C. App. 581; Arnstein v. United States, 296 Fed. 946, 948.
The question, therefore, which we have to answer is
whether, when Congress gave the Commission power to
make orders in the District of Columbia with the aid of
the Supreme Court of the District in compelling the production of evidence by contempt or mandamus, it intended to leave the orders thus made, if defied, without
any review or sanction by a reviewing court, though such

FED. TRADE COMM. v. KLESNER.
145

Opinion of the Court.

review and sanction are expressly provided everywhere
throughout the United States except in the District. We
think this most unlikely, and, therefore, it is our duty, if
possible in reason, to find in the Trade Commission Act
ground for inference that Congress intended to refer to and
treat the Court of Appeals of the District as one of the
circuit courts of appeals referred to in the Act, to review
and enforce such orders.
It is to be noted that the same question arises in the
construction of the Clayton Act of October 15, 1914, c.
323, 38 Stat. 730. That Act applies, as this one does, to
commerce in the District, as well as between States, and
with foreign nations. By its second section it forbids
difference in prices to purchasers in order to lessen competition. In the third section it makes it unlawful to
lease or make and sell goods patented or unpatented or fix
a price thereon with the condition that the lessee or purchaser shall not use the goods or wares of competitors,
where such a provision shall lessen competition. By § 7,
corporations are forbidden to acquire stock of another to
lessen competition, and by § 8 there is a restriction upon
interlocking directorates in two or more competing corporations applicable to banking associations and other corporations. Section 11 provides that authority to enforce
compliance with the sections just referred to is'vested in
the Interstate Commerce Commission where applicable to
common carriers, in the Federal Reserve Board where applicable to banks, and in the Federal Trade Commission
where applicable to all the other characters of commerce.
The orders of these bodies are to be made upon hearings
similar to those provided for in the Federal Trade Commission Act, and the circuit courts of appeals are to review
and enforce the orders. The existence of two such Acts
itself enforces the inference that Congress thought that
the term "Circuit Court of Appeals" was sufficient to
include the appellate court of the District of Columbia.

156

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

The Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia was
created by an Act of Congress approved February 9, 1893,
27 Stat. 434, which conferred upon it appellate jurisdiction over the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
Section 7 of the Act provides that any party aggrieved by
any final order, judgment or decree of the-Supreme Court
of the District, or of any justice thereof, may appeal therefrom to the Court of Appeals thereby created, which upon
such appeal shall review such order, judgment or decree and
affirm, reverse or modify the same as shall be just. This
was a substitution of the Court of Appeals for the general term of the Supreme Court, which latter court was
abolished by the Act. The parallelism between the Supreme Court of the District and the Court of Appeals of
the District, on the one hand, and the district courts of
the United States and the circuit courts of appeals, on the
other, in the consideration and disposition of cases involving what among the States would be regarded as
within federal jurisdiction, is complete.
A question similar to the one we have here was presented in the case of the Steamer Coquitlam v. United
States, 163 U. S. 346. The United States in that case
brought a suit in admiralty for the forfeiture of the
steamer Coquitlam, because of an alleged violation of the
revenue laws of the United States, in the District Court
of Alaska, and, a decree having been rendered for the
United States, an appeal was prosecuted to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. Under the 15th
section of the Act creating the circuit courts of appeals, 26
Stat. 826, 830, the circuit courts of appeals in cases in
which their judgments were made final by the Act, were
given the same appellate jurisdiction by writ of error
or appeals to review the judgments, orders and decrees
of the Supreme Courts of the several territories as by the
Act they might have to review the judgments, orders, and

FED. TRADE COMM. v. KLESNER.
145

Opinion of the Court.

decrees of the district courts and circuit courts, and for
that purpose the several territories were, by orders of the
Supreme Court, to be made from time to time, to be assigned to particular circuits. 26 Stat. 826, 830. Now, in
Alaska there was only one court, and it was called the District Court of Alaska, and it was contended that it was
not a supreme court of the territory and, therefore, was
not a court from which an appeal could be prosecuted
to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.
By the Act of May 17, 1884, 23 Stat. 24, a civil government was provided for Alaska, to constitute a civil and
judicial district, with the civil and judicial and criminal
jurisdiction of district courts of the United States, and
such other jurisdiction not inconsistent with the Act as
might be established by law, and the general laws of
Oregon, so far as the laws were applicable, were adopted.
This Court held that, under the statutes, the Circuit Court
of Appeals of the Ninth Circuit could not review the final
judgments or decrees of the Alaska court in virtue of its
appellate jurisdiction over the district and circuit courts
mentioned in the Act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826, 830,
but that, as Alaska was one of the territories of the United
States and as the District Court established in Alaska was
the court of last resort within the limits of the territory,
it was in a very substantial sense the supreme court of
that territory; that no reason could be suggested why a
territory of the United States in which the court of last
resort was called a supreme court should be assigned to
some circuit established by Congress that did not apply
with full force to the Territory of Alaska in which the
court of last resort was designated as the District Court
of Alaska. The Court, speaking by Mr. Justice Harlan,
said (p. 352):
"Looking at the whole scope of the act of 1891, we do
not doubt that Congress contemplated that the final

158

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

orders and decrees of the courts of last resort in the organized Territories of the United States-by whatever
name those courts were designated in legislative enactments-should be reviewed by the proper Circuit Court
of Appeals, leaving to this court the assignment of the
respective Territories among the existing circuits."
We think we may use the same liberality of construction in this case. We find here a court which by acts of
Congress is to be treated as a district court of the United
States, and we find here a court of appeals which by the
terms of its creation is exercising reviewing power over
all federal cases proceeding from that district court of the
United States by appeal or writ of error, so that it is
exercising exactly the same function as the circuit courts
of appeals do with respect to the district courts within
their respective territorial jurisdictions in the other parts of
the United States. The services of this district court of
the United States in the District of Columbia are to be
availed of under the Trade Commission Act when necessary in compelling evidence by the express words of the
Act. We must conclude that Congress, in making its
provision for the use of the circuit courts of appeals, in
reviewing the Commission's orders, intended to include
within that description the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia as the appellate tribunal to be charged
with the same duty in the District. The law was to be
enforced, and presumably with the same effectiveness, in
the District of Columbia as elsewhere in the United
States.
We do not think that the cases of Swift v. Hoover, 242
U. S, 107, and of Telit, Weller & Company v. Munsuri,
222 U. S. 114, should lead us in this case to a different
conclusion. They related to appeals direct to this Court
in bankruptcy from a court in Porto Rico, and from the
Supreme. Court of the District respectively. With the

FED. TRADE COMM. v. KLESNER.
145

MCREYNoLDS, J., dissenting.

heavy burden upon this Court, every direct review imposed on it was naturally viewed with critical care, and

when it was sought to enlarge the jurisdiction of this
Court by strained construction to include review of the
numerous and small claims from courts of bankruptcy in

such jurisdictions, it is not strange that the attempt failed.
More than that, in those cases the bankruptcy proceedings were judicial proceedings with judicial judgments
which could be enforced even if not reviewed. They were
not left in the air without any sanction against a defiant

litigant, as would be the result in the present case, were
the view we have taken not to prevail.
The judgment of dismissal of the Court of Appeals of
the District of Columbia is reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings.
Reversed.

The separate opinion of MR.

JUSTICE

MORYNOLDS.

I think the judgment of the court below should be'
airmed.
If the cause involved no more than interpretation of a
doubtful provision in the statute, it hardly would be worth
while to record personal views. But judicial legislation is
a hateful thing and I am unwilling by acquiescence to
give apparent assent to the practice.
Possibly-probably, perhaps-if attention had been
seasonably called to the matter Congress would have authorized the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia to enforce orders of the Trade Commission. But the
words of the enactment, which we must accept as deliberately chosen, give no such power; and I think this court
ought not to interject what it can only suppose the lawmakers would have inserted if they had thought long
enough.

