OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Appellants.

274 U. S.

FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION ET AL. v. CLAIRE

FURNACE COMPANY

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 1. Argued December 6, 1923; reargued November 24, 1925.Decided April 18, 1927.
1. An order of the Federal Trade Commission requiring a corporation to submit reports concerning its business, under § 6 of the
Federal Trade Commission Act, is enforcible by the Commission
only by requesting the Attorney General to institute mandamus
proceedings under § 9, or by supplying him with the facts necessary to enforce the forfeiture of $100 per day, prescribed by § 10
for continued failure to ile such reports after notice. P. 170.
2. As the validity of such orders may be fully contested in such
mandamus or forfeiture proceedings, if instituted in the exercise
of his discretion by the Attorney General, these offer an adequate
legal remedy to corporations resisting the orders as unconstitutional, and therefore a bill in equity to enjoin the Commission from
taking steps to enforce such orders will not lie. P. 174.
3. In view of the purpose of the statute that questions of constitutionality involved in such orders of the Commission should be
passed upon by the Attorney General before undertaking their
enforcement by judicial proceedings instituted by him, a suit
brought by corporations affected, against the Commission, to determine such questions should not be entertained even with consent
of the parties. P. 174.
52 App. D. C. 202; 285 Fed. 936, reversed.
APPEAL from a decree of the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia which affirmed a decree of the Supreme Court of the District, enjoining the Federal Trade
Commission and its members from attempting to enforce
orders made on the complainant corporations, command-'
ing them to furnish monthly reports showing in detail
the output, costs, prices, etc., in their business.

Solicitor GeneralBeck, with whom Messrs. W. H. Fuller
and Adrien F. Busick were on the brief, for appellants on
the first argument.

FED. TRADE COMM. v. CLAIRE CO.
160

Argument for Appellants.

Congress has power to compel the giving of information and production of documents in any inquiry concerning a subject matter over which it has jurisdiction to
legislate. The Constitution conferred all powers proper
for the exercise of each power expressly granted. Among
the powers so granted is that to acquire information, and
it is not necessary to establish in each instance that the
information required is indispensable to legislative action.
The specific character of the action contemplated by
Congress need not be shown in order that information
may be required. Information respecting prices may be
required though no power to fix reasonable prices exists.
Information required should be had at least as to articles
of prime necessity.
Congress can constitutionally authorize an administrative body to collect information respecting any subject
over which it has legislative jurisdiction.
Jurisdiction of Congress over interstate commerce and
the extent of the power to require information: Commerce among the States includes the purchase and sale
of commodities between citizens in different States. The
power to regulate extends to all matters which may burden or restrain interstate commerce, even though not
actually a part thereof. The power of Congress to require information respecting interstate commerce is
broader than the power to regulate, and extends to ascertaining what, if any, burdens or restraints upon such commerce are threatened.
The information called for by the questionnaires concerns interstate commerce itself, or matters so closely
related thereto as to be necessary to an intelligent report
upon conditions existing in such commerce, and may be
lawfully required. The information is necessary to show
whether the law of supply and demand operates. Each
item required relates to subject matter upon which Congress may legislate.
°- 2
- -- 1 1
N5514

&

162

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Reargument for Appellants.

274 U.S.

Congress has the power to provide for -the investigation
of corporations and the compulsory making of reports by
them, and for the publication of the facts for the purpose
of applying the corrective force of public opinion to the
practices of corporations. It has power to compel the giving of information and production of documents to show
whether the laws which the Commission is charged with
enforcing are being violated, and demand therefor falls
within the visitorial power of Congress over corporations
engaged in interstate commerce.
The Federal Trade Commission Act authorized the
Commission to require the information and reports specified in the questionnaires. The Commission's action was
within the text of the law; it was in harmony with the long
interpretation of this and other Acts by the Government,
and with the Congressional interpretation of the Trade
Commission Act. The call for monthly reports was lawful.
The demand for the information contained in the questionnaires in the manner and form made, does not violate
the Fourth or Fifth Amendments to the Federal Constitution.
Solicitor General Mitchell, with whom Messrs. W. H.
Fuller and Adrien F. Busick were on a supplemental
brief, for appellants on reargument.
Obtaining information about their interstate business
from corporations engaged in interstate commerce is an
appropriate means of enabling Congress to regulate interstate commerce.
The power to require such corporations to furnish information concerning their affairs can not be denied unless
there be some specific provision of the Constitution restraining its exercise.
The ultimate question in this case is whether the power
is restrained by the Fourth Amendment, prohibiting unreasonable searches and seizures. It is not an unreason-

FED. TRADE COMM. v. CLAIRE CO.
160

Argument for Appellees.

able invasion of privacy to require from these corporations reports of their interstate business, although the
information is not for use in any pending proceeding or
in connection with pending legislation.
Having power to require information respecting their
interstate commerce business, Congress has power to require information respecting the business of these corporations not interstate commerce, where (1) the accounts
are commingled or (2) their other operations have a
direct bearing on their activities in interstate commerce.
The Commission is given power by the terms of the
Federal Trade Commission Act to require reports in the
form demanded.
Mr. Paul D. Cravath, with whom Mr. Hoyt A. Moore
was on the brief, for appellees on the first argument.
Congress has not conferred upon the Commission any
such power as it seeks to exercise in requiring the information called for. The sole source of authority of the
Commission is the Federal Trade Commission Act, which
does not purpose to authorize the Commission to make a
general investigation of an industry or intrastate business
in any case. The construction by the Commission calls
for unprecedented and unauthorized power.
The orders of the Commission to the appellees exceed
the power granted to it. The Act applies only to the interstate commerce of corporations. The Commission can not
regulate prices. Investigations authorized must relate
to the purposes of the Act. The Act does not authorize
investigations of economic conditions.
Congress could not grant to the Commission power to
investigate the manufacturing activities of corporations
which sell their output in interstate commerce. The
power of Congress over interstate commerce does not extend to manufacturing or mining. Although the Commission may have investigatory power over such business

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Reargument for Appellees.

274 U. S.

of the appellees as is interstate commerce, this does not
give it such power over their other business. Neither Congress nor the Commission has any power to require information on any matter over which it has no regulatory
power. The inquiry of the Commission does not relate to
interstate commerce.
Enforcement of the demands of the Commission would
violate rights secured to the appellees by the Fourth
Amendment to the Constitution.
Mr. Paul D. Cravath, with whom Messrs. Hoyt A.
Moore and A. Arthur Jenkins were on a supplemental
brief, for appellees on reargument.
This case presents squarely the question whether the
Commission has power to require corporations engaged
in the manufacture of steel and iron products or in the
production of coke to file with the Commission monthly
reports giving the costs and sales prices of products manufactured by them and a vast amount of other information regarding their manufacturing operations and purely
intrastate activities, simply because a part of their manufactured products is sold, and a part of the raw materials utilized at their plants is purchased, in States other
than those in which those plants are located. Two or
three of the appellees apparently do not purchase any of
their raw materials or sell any of their manufactured products in interstate commerce. All the others sell some
portion of their manufactured products, and most of them
purchase or produce some portion of their raw materials,
in States other than the States where their respective
manufacturing plants are located.
Whatever authority the Commission had for requiring the information must be found in the Act.
The law laid down by this Court in Federal Trade Commission v. American Tobacco Co., 264 U. S. 298, and
Federal Trade Commission v. Baltimore Grain Co., 267

FED. TRADE COMM. v. CLAIRE CO.
160

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 586, applies to the present case. The only periodical
reports authorized are annual reports. The order is invalid because not limited to interstate comnmerce. The
power of Congress under the Commerce Clause is limited
to preserving freedom of commerce.
Congress can not fix or regulate prices to be charged by
manufacturers.
The Fifth Amendment is involved. It appears to be
the view of the Commission that the information, the
power to secure which can be delegated by Congress,
includes any information that in any manner may involve
any subject over which Congress can legislate.
The intermingling of intrastate and interstate transactions does not justify the demand of the Commission.
Commingling of accounts does not expose them to Congressional investigation. The intrastate activities of the
appellees have no bearing on interstate commerce. The
examination of books to check the reports must be also
properly limited.
Profits or prices are not the concern of the Commission; nor is productive capacity and production. Manufacturing is not a public or common calling.
The doctrine of Harriman v. Interstate Commerce
Commission, 211 U. S. 407, applies here.
On the appellant's own argument as to the Fourth
Amendment, its order violates that Amendment.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICe. TAFT delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This was a bill in equity brought in the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia on behalf of twenty-two companies of Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, New York,
Delaware, New Jersey and Maryland, in the coal, steel
and related industries, to enjoin the Federal Trade Commission from enforcing or attempting to enforce orders
issued by that Commission against the complainant com-

166

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

panies, requiring them to furnish monthly reports of. the
cost of production, balance sheets, and other voluminous
information in detail, upon a large variety of subjects
relating to the business in which complainant corporations are engaged. The authority under which the
Commission professed to act was expressed in the following resolution adopted by the Commission, December
15, 1919:
"Whereas at a hearing held by the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives on August
25th, 1919, the Federal Trade Commission was requested
to suggest what it might undertake to do to reduce the
high cost of living; and
"Whereas the commission recommended to the said
committee that it would be desirable to obtain and publish from time to time current information with respect
to 'the production, ownership, manufacture, storage, and
distribution of foodstuffs, or other necessaries, and the
products or by-products arising from or in connection
with the preparation and manufacture thereof, together
with figures of cost and wholesale and retail prices,' and
particularly with respect to various basic industries, including coal and steel; and
"Whereas the said committee recommended an appropriation of $150,000 for the current fiscal year for the
said commission in consequence of this recommendation
and the same was duly made by authority of Congress,
and made available on November 4, 1919: Now, therefore, be it
"Resolved, That the Federal Trade Commission by
virtue of section 6, paragraphs (a) and (b), of the Federal Trade Commission act, proceed to the collection and
publication of such information with respect to such
basic industries as the said appropriation and other funds
at its command will permit: And be it further

FED. TRADE COMM. v. CLAIRE CO.
160

Opinion of the Court.

"Resolved, That such action be started as soon as possible with respect to the coal industry and the steel industry, including in the latter closely related industries
such as the iron ore, coke, and pig iron industries."
Purporting to proceed under this resolution, the Commission served separate notices upon the twenty-two appellees and many other corporations, engaged in mining,
manufacturing, buying and selling coal, coke, ore, iron
and steel products, etc., which directed them to furnish
monthly reports in the form prescribed showing output
of every kind, itemized cost of production, sale prices,
contract prices, capacity, buying orders, depreciation,
general administration and selling expenses, income,
general balance sheet, etc., etc. Elaborate questionnaires, accompanying these orders, asked for answers revealing the intimate details of every department of the
business, both intrastate and interstate. A summary of
these, printed in the margin, sufficiently indicates their
contents.* The concluding paragraph of the notice de* Summary of interrogatories submitted by Federal Trade Commission to sundry corporations with direction to report monthly.
(1) Quantities of 44 specified products produced.
(2) Costs of 25 products from each battery of ovens, furnace,
mill or other unit of operation.
(3) Sales prices ("actual realization f. o. b. mill after deduction
of freight allowance ") of 19 products, separately as to domestic and
export shipments.
(4) Contract prices (" base price less freight allowance ") named
in orders for future delivery of 19 products, separately as to domestic
and export shipments.
(5) Capacity of ovens, furnaces, works and mills in respect of 18
products.
(6) Orders booked during each month and orders unfilled at the
end of each month respecting 19 products.
(7) Depreciation and general administrative and selling expenses
allocated to 17 products, details of income from other sources, balance of net income transferred to surplus, with details of interest,

168

OCTOBER TERM; 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U.S.

lared-"The purpose of this report is to compile in
combined or consolidated form the data received from
individual companies and to issue currently in such form
accurate and comprehensive information regarding
changes in the conditions of the industry both for the
benefit of the industry and of the public."

Appellees did not comply with the inquiries in the
notices but filed in the Supreme Court, District of Colum-

bia, their joint bill against the Commission and its members, wherein they set out its action, alleged that it had
exceeded its powers, and asked that all defendants be
restrained "from the enforcement of said orders, and from
requiring answers to said questionnaires, and from taking
any proceedings -whatever with reference to the enforcement of compliance with said orders and answers to said
questionnaires;" also for general relief.
Without questioning the appellees' right to seek relief
by injunction, the appellants answered, admitted issuing
of the orders, claimed authority therefor under §§ 6, and
9, Federal Trade Commission Act, September 26, 1914,
c. 311, 38 Stat. 717, 721, 722, and further alleged and
saidThat the reports were required "for all the purposes
and under all the authority granted to them by law,
including the purpose of gathering and compiling said
information for publication and the consequent regulation of the interstate commerce of said complainants
resulting from such publication of the true trade facts as
to all of the business of complainants and of others enrentals, cash discounts on purchases, royalties, dividends from affiliated or subsidiary companies, income from outside investments, and
details of deductions from net income, including federal income and
excess profit taxes, interest on bonds and notes, sinking fund provisions, discount on bonds and notes, losses on investments, amortization, losses on contracts, reorganization expenses, fire losses, donations, adjustment of property value and bonuses to officials.

FED. TRADE COMM. v. CLAIRE CO.
160

Opinion of the Court.

gaged in commerce in those commodities, and including
the purpose of making reports to Congress and of recommending additional legislation to Congress.
"Defendants allege that all of the information to be
acquired through the answers to said questionnaires is
necessary and has direct relation to regulation and control
of the interstate and foreign commerce of complainants
and otheis answering said questionnaires, and is sought
by the Federal Trade Commission for the purpose and
in necessary aid of the regulation of said commerce.
"Defendants admit that no complaint has been filed
or is now pending before the commission against any of
complainants for a violation of § 5 of the trade commission act, but aver that the activities sought to be enjoined
were instituted and are sought to be carried on under the
provisions of said trade commission act.
"That one purpose of the requirements made in this
case is the gathering of complete information, which is
necessary in the proper regulation through publicity of
the true facts as to the interstate business of the industry.
That such purpose can not be properly performed without the acquisition of the complete facts. That the acquisition of the complete information and facts required
will effectuate such purpose, in that the dissemination
of such complete trade information will tend to prevent
undue fluctuations and panic markets based on ignorance
of the true facts, or based on incomplete and partial or
self-interested information published only whenever and
in so far as it may serve those self-interested who may
publish it. That regulation by publicity is, and for a
long time has been, recognized as one form of regulation
which has been generally conceded to be fair and equitable
to all concerned. That unless such regulation through
public dissemination of the full and complete facts is
carried out, other more drastic forms of attempted regulations without proper information may follow.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

"That in addition to the regulatory effect, in and of
itself, of such public dissemination of the complete facts,
it is one of the purposes of these activities to gather and
convey to Congress, for its information in the performance of its duties, the full and complete facts, in order
that instead of legislating on incomplete or partial or
prejudiced information, it may have the full facts before
it. That if any regulatory effect upon intrastate commerce flows from such publicity, it is merely incidental to
the general regulation of interstate commerce, as to which
the power of Congress is complete."
The cause was heard upon motion to strike the answer
from the files because it contained no adequate defense.
The trial court concluded that, as the propounded questions were not limited to interstate commerce, but asked
also for detailed information concerning mining, manufacture and intrastate commerce, they were beyond the
Commission's authority. "The power claimed by the
Commission is vast and unprecedented. The mere fact
that a corporation engaged in mining ships a portion of
its product to other States does not subject its business
of production or its intrastate commerce to the powers
of Congress." It accordingly held the answer insufficient
and, as defendants declined to amend, granted the injunction as prayed. The Court of Appeals affirmed this
action. 285 Fed. 936; 52 App. D. C. 202. The cause,
here by appeal, has been twice argued.
Appellees were not charged with practicing unfair
methods of competition ('§ 5, Act of September 26,
1914) or violating the Clayton Act (c. 323, §§ 2, 3, 7, 8,
38 Stat. 730, 731, 732). Orders under such charges can
be enforced only through a Circuit Court of Appeals
(§ 11, Clayton Act; § 5, Federal Trade Commission Act).
The action of the commission here challenged must be
justified, if at all, under the paragraphs of §§ 6 and 9,
Act of September 26, 1914, copied below, and the only

FED. TRADE COMM. v. CLAIRE CO.
160

Opinion of the Court.

methods prescribed for enforcing orders permitted by any
of these paragraphs are specified in §§ 9 and 10. They
are applications to the Attorney General to institute an
action for mandamus, and proceedings by him to recover
%
the prescribed penalties.
"Sec. 6. That the commission shall also have power"(a) To gather and compile information concerning, and
to investigate from time to time the organization, business, conduct, practices, and management of any corporation engaged in commerce, excepting banks and common
carriers subject to the Act to regulate commerce, and its
relation to other corporations and to individuals, associations, and partnerships.
"(b) To require, by general or special orders, corporations engaged in commerce, excepting banks, and common carriers subject to the Act to regulate commerce, or
any class of them, or any of them, respectively, to file
with the commission in such form as the commission may
prescribe annual or special, or both annual and special,
reports or answers in writing to specific questions, furnishing to the commission such information as it may
require as to the organization, business, conduct, practices, management, and relation to other corporations,
partnerships, and individuals of the respective corporations filing such reports or answers in writing. Such
reports and answers shall be made under oath, or otherwise, as the commission may prescribe, and shall be filed
with the commission within such reasonable period as the
commission may prescribe, unless additional time be
granted in any case by the commission.
"(f) To make public from time to time such portions
of the information obtained by it hereunder, except trade
secrets and names of customers, as it shall deem expedient
in the public interest; and to make annual and special
reports to the Congress and to submit therewith recom-

172

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

mendations for additional legislation; and to provide for
the publication of its reports and decisions in such form
and manner as may be best adapted for public information and use.
"(g) From time to time to classify corporations and to
make rules and regulations for the purpose of carrying
out the provisions of this Act.
"(h) To investigate, from time to time, trade conditions in and with foreign countries where associations,
combinations, or practices of manufacturers, merchants,
or traders, or other conditions, may affect the foreign
trade of the United States, and to report to Congress
thereon, with such recommendations as it deems advisable .
..
"See. 9. That for the purposes of this Act the commission, or its duly authorized agent or agents, shall at
all reasonable times have access to, for the purpose of
examination, and the right to copy any documentary
evidence of any corporation being investigated or proceeded against; and the commission shall have power to
require by subpoena the attendance and testimony of
witnesses and the production of all such documentary
evidence relating to any matter under investigation. Any
member of the commission may sign subpoenas, and members and examiners of the commission may administer
oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses, and receive
evidence.
"Such attendance of witnesses, and the production of
such documentary evidence, may be required from any
place in the United States, at any designated place of
hearing. And in case of disobedience to a subpoena the
commission may invoke the aid of any court of the United
States in requiring the attendance and testimony of
witnesses and the production of documentary evidence. . ..

FED. TRADE COMM. v. CLAIRE CO.
160

Opinion of the Court.

"Upon the application of the Attorney General of the
United States, at-the request of the commission, the district courts of the United States shall have jurisdiction
to issue writs of mandamus commanding any person or
corporation to comply with the provisions of this Act or
any order of the commission made in pursuance
thereof.
"Sec. 10. That any person who shall neglect or refuse
to attend and testify, or to answer any lawful inquiry, or
to produce documentary evidence, if in his power to do
so, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful requirement
of the commission, shall be guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof by a court of competent jurisdiction
shall be punished by a fine or not less than $1,000 nor
more than $5,000, or by imprisonment for not more than
one year, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
"If any corporation required by this Act to file any
annual or special report shall fail to do so within the time
fixed by the commission for filing the same, and such failure shall continue for thirty days after notice of such default, the corporation shall forfeit to the United States the
sum of $100 for each and every day of the continuance of
such failure, which forfeiture shall be payable into the
Treasury of the United States, and shall be recoverable in
a civil suit in the name of the United States brought in
the district where the corporation has its principal office
or in any district in which it shall do business. It shall
be the duty of the various district attorneys, under the
direction of the Attorney General of the United States, to
prosecute for the recovery of forfeitures. The costs and
expenses of such prosecution shall be paid out of the
appropriation for the expenses of the courts of the United
States."
There was nothing which the Commission could have
done to secure enforcement of the challenged orders except

174

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

to request the Attorney General to institute proceedings
for a mandamus or supply him with the necessary facts for
an action to enforce the incurred forfeitures. If, exercising his discretion, he had instituted either proceeding
the defendant therein would have been fully heard and
could have adequately and effectively presented every
ground of objection sought to be presented now. Consequently, the trial court should have refused to entertain
the bill in equity for an injunction.
We think that the consent of the parties was not enough
to justify the court in considering the fundamental question that has been twice argued before us. It was intended by Congress in providing this method of enforcing the orders of the Trade Commission to impose upon
the Attorney General the duty of examining the scope
and propriety of the orders, and of sifting out of the mass
of inquiries issued what in his judgment was pertinent
and lawful before asking the Court to adjudge forfeitures
for failure to give the great amount of information required or to issue a mandamus against those whom the
orders affected and who refused to comply. The wide
scope and variety of the questions, answers to which are
asked in these orders, show the wisdom of requiring the
chief law officer of the Government to exercise a sound discretion in designating the inquiries to enforce which he
shall feel justified in invoking the action of the court. In
a case like this, the exercise of this discretion will greatly
relieve the court and may save it much unnecessary labor
and discussion. The purpose of Congress in this requirement is plain, and we do not think that the court below
should have dispensed with such assistance. Until the Attorney General acts, the defendants can not suffer, and
when he does act, they can promptly answer and have full
opportunity to contest the legality of any prejudicial proceeding against them. That right being adequate, they
were not in a position to ask relief by injunction. The
bill should have been dismissed for want of equity.

