554

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

274 U. S.

The Supreme Court of Oklahoma seems definitely to
have approved the doctrine that rights of action arising
in Indian Territory prior to statehood remained subject
to the Arkansas statute of limitations. Patterson v.
Rousney, 58 Okla. 185, 202; Davis v. Foley, 60 Okla.
87, 88. And see U. S. Fidelity, etc. Co. v. Fidelity Trust
Co., 49 Okla. 398, 408; Sandlin v. Barker, 95 Okla.
113, 117.
Considering our conclusions in respect of the two federal questions already dealt with and views long accepted
by the court below, it seems unnecessary for us now to
consider other points relied on by counsel.
Reversed.
CLARK ET AL. V. POOR ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 275. Argued April 19, 1927.-Decided May 31, 1927.
1. A final judgment of the District Court, three judges sitting, which
dismisses a bill challenging the constitutionality of a state statute
and seeking to enjoin its enforcement, is reviewable in this Court,
on appeal under Jud. Code § 266, as amended by Act of February
13, 1925, when an interlocutory injunction had been applied for
and a restraining order issued. P. 556.
2. A state regulation providing that, before operating over the state
highways, a common carrier by motor shall apply for and obtain a
certificate or permit therefor from a state commission and shall pay
an extra tax for the maintenance and repair of the highways and
for the administration and enforcement of the laws governing their
use, is constitutional though applied to carriers engaged exclusively
in interstate commerce. P. 556.
3. That the tax so exacted is not all used for maintenance and repair
of the highways, but some of it for defraying expenses of the commission in administration and enforcement of the act, and some for
other purposes, is no concern of the taxpayer, it being assessed for
a proper purpose and not unreasonable in amount. P. 557.

CLARK v. POOR.
554

555

Opinion of the Court.

4. An additional provision that no certificate should issue until a
policy covering liability and cargo insurance had been filed with
the commission, is not a ground for complaint in this case, even if
it be unconstitutional in its application to the plaintiffs as interstate
carriers, since there are other provisions declaring that the act shall
apply to interstate commerce only in so far as permitted by the
Federal Constitution, and that the invalidity of any part shall not
affect any other part; and since the requirement of such insurance
was not the ground for plaintiffs' refusal to apply for the certificate
or pay the tax, and was waived by the defendant commission in

this Court. P. 557.
Affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing a
bill to enjoin the defendants, constituting the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio, from enforcing against Clark
and Riggs, interstate carriers by motor, provisions of the
Ohio Motor Transportation Act.
Mr. Murray Seasongood, with whom Messrs. Lester A.
Jaffe and Robert P. Goldman were on the brief, for
appellants.
Messrs. Albert M. Calland and John W. Bricker, with
whom Mr. C. C. Crabbe, Attorney General of Ohio, was
on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JusTIcE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Ohio Motor Transportation Act of 1923, as
amended, Gen. Code, §§ 614-84 to 614-102, provides that
a motor transportation company desiring to operate
within the State shall apply to the Public Utilities Commission for a certificate so to do and shall not begin to
operate without first obtaining it; also, that such a company must pay, at the time of the issuance of the certificate and annually thereafter, a tax graduated according

556

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 I. S.

to the number and capacity of the vehicles used. §§ 61487, 614-94.
Clark and Riggs operate as common carriers a motor
truck line between Aurora, Indiana., and Cincinnati, Ohio,
exclusively in interstate commerce. They ignored the
provisions of the Act, and operated without applying for a
certificate or paying the tax. Then they brought this
suit, in the federal court for southern Ohio, to enjoin the
Commission from enforcing as against them the provisions of the Act. The case was heard in the District
Court before three judges on final hearing, under § 266
of the Judicial Code as amended by the Act of February
13, 1925. It appeared that while the Act calls the certificate one of "public convenience and necessity," the
Commission had recognized, before this suit was begun,
that, under Buck v. Kuykendall, 267 U. S. 307 and Bush
v. Maloy, 267 U. S. 317, it had no discretion where the
carrier was engaged exclusively in interstate commerce,
and was willing to grant to plaintiffs a certificate upon
application and compliance with other provisions of the
law. See Cannon Ball TransportationCo. v. Public Utilities Commission, 113 Oh. St. 565, 567. The bill was dismissed. It is here on direct appeal. This Court has
jurisdiction as an interlocutory injunction had been applied for and a restraining order issued. Moore v. Fidelity
& Deposit Co., 272 U. S. 317, 320-321; Smith v. Wilson,
273 U. S. 388.
The plaintiffs claim that, as applied to them, the Act
violates the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution.
They insist that, as they are engaged exclusively in interstate commerce, they are not subject to regulation by the
State; that it is without power to require that before
using its highways they apply for and obtain a certificate;
and that it is also without power to impose, in addition
to the annual license fee demanded of all persons using
automobiles on the highways, a tax upon them, under

CLARK v. POOR.
554

557

Opinion of the Court.

§ 614-94, for the maintenance and repair of the highways and for the administration and enforcement of the
laws governing the use of the same. The contrary is

settled. The highways are public property.

Users of

them, although engaged exclusively in interstate com-

merce, are subject to regulation by the State to ensure
safety and convenience and the conservation of the highways. Morris v. Duby, ante, p. 135; Hess v. Pawloski,
ante, p. 352. Users of them, although engaged exclusively in interstate commerce, may be required to
contribute to their cost and upkeep. Common carriers
for hire, who make the highways their place of business,
may properly be charged an extra tax for such use.
Hendrick v. Maryland, 235 U. S. 610; Kane v. New
Jersey, 242 U. S. 160. Compare Packardv. Banton, 264
U. S. 140, 144.
There is no suggestion that the tax discriminates
against interstate commerce. Nor is it suggested that the
tax is so large as to obstruct interstate commerce. It is
said that all of the tax is not used for maintenance and
repair of the highways; that some of it is used for defraying the expenses of the Commission in the administration
or enforcement of the Act; and some for other purposes.
This, if true, is immaterial. Since the tax is assessed for
a proper purpose and is not objectionable in amount, the
use to which the proceeds are put is not a matter which
concerns the plaintiffs.
Plaintiffs urge that the decree should be reversed because of the provision in the Act concerning insurance.
The Act provides that no certificate shall issue until a
policy covering liability and cargo insurance has been filed
with the Commission. § 614-99. The lower court held
that, under Michigan Public Utilities Commission v.
Duke, 266 U. S. 570, this provision could not be applied
to exclusively interstate carriers, Red Ball Transit Co. v.
Marshall, 8 F. (2d) 635, 639; and counsel for the Corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

mission stated in this Court that the requirements for
insurance would not be insisted upon. Plaintiffs urge
that because this was not conceded at the outset, it was
error to deny the injunction. The circumstances were
such that it was clearly within the discretion of the court
to decline to issue an injunction; and since an injunction
was the only relief sought, it properly dismissed the bill.
Compare Chicago G. W. Ry. Co. v. Kendall, 266 U. S. 94,
100-101. The plaintiff's did not apply for a certificate or
offer to pay the taxes. They refused or failed to do so,
not because insurance was demanded, but because of their
belief that, being engaged exclusively in interstate coinmerce, they could not be required to apply for a certificate or to pay the tax. Their claim was unfounded.
Moreover, the Act made each section and part thereof
independent and declared that "the holding of any section or part thereof to be void or ineffective for any cause
shall not affect any other section or part thereof." § 614102. And the Act also provided that it should apply to
interstate commerce only in so far as such regulation was
permitted by the Federal Constitution. § 614-101.
It is not clear whether the liability insurance, for which
the Act provides, is against loss resulting to third persons
from the applicant's negligence in using the highways
within the State, or is for loss to passengers resulting
from such negligence, or for both purposes. We have no
occasion to consider whether, under any suggested interpretation, liability insurance, as distinguished from insurance on the interstate cargo, may be required of a carrier engaged wholly in interstate commerce. Compare
Hess v. Pawloski, supra. The decree dismissing the bill
is affirmed, but without prejudice to the right of the
plaintiffs to seek appropriate relief by another suit if
they should hereafter be required by the Commission to
comply with conditions or provisions not warranted
by law.
Affirmed.

