220

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

274 U. S.

authority to make contracts on behalf of the Government,
to exercise all the power and authority vested in the President applicable to the production, purchase and requisitioning of war material.
Navy order N-4128 did not purport to be an offer to
purchase; it commanded delivery of specified merchandise. Plaintiff's consent was not sought; it was not consulted as to quantity, price, time or place of delivery.
The Navy relied upon the compulsory provisions of the
Acts of Congress and commanded compliance with the
order. These Acts authorized the requisition of plaintiff's property for public use. The President was empowered to take immediate possession of its plant to
manufacture the tobacco products called for. Act of
June 3, 1916, 39 Stat. 166, 213. And it is to be presumed
that the plant would have been taken if plaintiff had refused compliance. The acceptance was not the closing of
a contract; it was the expression of purpose to obey. And
the order was a continuing one and operated to require
delivery of the- specified articles whether then on hand
or thereafter to be produced.
The findings show that plaintiff's property was taken
by eminent domain; and its just compensation includes
the additional amount claimed. SeaboardAir Line Ry. v.
United States, 261 U. S. 299, 304; Brooks-Scanlon Corp.
v. United States, 265 U. S. 106, 123.
Judgment reversed.
KERCHEVAL v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 705. Argued January 19, 1927.-Decided May 2, 1927.
A plea of guilty withdrawn by leave of court is not admissible against
the defendant on the trial of the issue arising on a substituted plea
of not guilty. P. 223.
12 F. (2d) 904, reversed.

KERCHEVAL v. UNITED STATES.
220

Opinion of the Court.

CERTI0RaI (273 U. S. 685) to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals affirming a conviction and sentence in
the District Court, in a prosecution for using the mails
to defraud.

Mr. Edward J. Callahan, with whom Messrs. William
E. Leahy, William J. Hughes, Jr., George R. Smith, William B. Movery, Paul Jones, Paul Jones, Jr., and H. C.
Wade were on the brief, for petitioner.
Assistant to the Attorney GeneralDonovan, with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell and Mr. William D. Whitney,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the
brief, for the United States.
MR. JusTIcE

BUTLER delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioner was indicted in the District Court for the
Western District of Arkansas under ยง 215 of the Criminal
Code for using the mails to defraud. He pleaded guilty,
and thereupon the court sentenced him to the penitentiary for three years. Afterwards he filed a petition
alleging that he was induced so to plead by the promise
of one of the prosecuting attorneys to recommend to the
court that he be punished by sentence of three months
in jail and by fine of $1,000, and by the statement of
such attorney that the court would impose that sentence.
The petition asserted that the sentence given was excessive and prayed to have it set aside and the punishment
alleged to have been promised substituted. The United
States denied the allegations of the petition. After hearing evidence on the issue, the court declined so to change
the sentence, but, on petitioner's motion, set aside the
judgment and allowed him to withdraw his plea of guilty
and to plead not guilty. At the trial the court, against
objection by petitioner, permitted the prosecution as a

222

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

part of its case in chief to put in evidence-a certified
copy of the plea of guilty. The petitioner in defense
introduced the court's order setting aside the sentence
and granting leave to withdraw that plea. Then both
sides gave evidence as to matters considered by the court
in setting aside the conviction. The court charged the
jury: "The plea of guilty is introduced as evidence by
the government. . . . If you find that Mr. Kercheval
made that plea of guilty and that no promise was held
out to him for the purpose of getting him to make that
plea, or if you find that he was notified before he made
the plea that nothing that was ever said to him with
reference to it theretofore would be met, then it is evidence for you to consider in connection with the other
evidence in the case. If . . . you find that he was
deceived, that this was brought about by conversations
that he had had with reference to it, and that he made
that plea of guilty when as a matter of fact he was not
guilty, then you will disregard that particular part of it
and consider just the other testimony in the case." The
jury returned a verdict of guilty, and the court sentenced
petitioner to the penitentiary for three years. The
Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment. 12 F.
(2d) 904. It said (p. 907): "In the motion made by
defendant to set aside the judgment he admits that he
had pleaded guilty. The purpose was to reduce the
punishment, but if this failed he asked to withdraw his
plea, and that the judgment be set aside. We know of
no reason why the plea of guilty was not admissible under
all these circumstances for what it might be worth. It
was not conclusive of guilt, and the court so instructed
the jury. The defendant probably knew better than any
one else whether or not he was guilty. Under the evidence in this case a plea of guilty upon. his part would
have seemed a very reasonable thing. We see no substantial or prejudicial error in the admission of any of

XERCHEVAL v. UNITED STATES.
220

Opinion of the Court.

the evidence complained of." The case is here on certiorari. 273 U. S. 685.
In support of the rulings below, the United States
cites Commonwealth v. Ervine, 8 Dana (Ky.) 30; People.
v. Jacobs, 165 App. Div. 721; State v. Carta, 90 Conn. 79;
People v. Boyd, 67 Cal. App. 292, 302; and People v.
Steinmetz, 240 N. Y. 411. The arguments for admissibility to be gleaned from these cases are that the introduction of the withdrawn plea shows conduct inconsistent with the claim of innocence at the trial; that the
plea is a statement of guilt having the same effect as if
made out of court; that it is received on the principle
which permits a confession of the accused in a lower
court to be shown against him at his trial in the higher
court; that it is not received as conclusive, and, like an
extra-judicial confession, it is not sufficient without other
evidence of the corpus delicti. It is sometimes likened
to prior testimony of the defendant making in favor of
the prosecution.
Other decisions support the petitioner's contention
that a plea of guilty withdrawn by leave of court is not
admissible on the trial of the issue arising on the substituted plea of not guilty. Heim v. United States, 47
App. D. C. 485; State v. Meyers, 99 Mo. 107, 119; People
v. Ryan, 82 Cal. 617; Heath v. State, 214 Pac. (Okla.)
1091. And see White v. State, 51 Ga. 286, 290; Green
v. State, 40 Fla. 474, 478. We think that contention is
sound. A plea of guilty differs in purpose and effect
from a mere admission or an extra-judicial confession;
it is itself a conviction. Like a verdict of a jury it is
conclusive. More is not required; the court has nothing
to do but give judgment and sentence. Out of just consideration for persons accused of crime, courts are careful that a plea of guilty shall not be accepted unless
made voluntarily after proper advice and with full understanding of the consequences. When one so pleads

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

he may be held bound. United States v. Bayaud, 23
Fed. 721. But, on timely application, the court will vacate a plea of guilty shown to have been unfairly obtained or given through ignorance, fear or inadvertence.
Such an application does not involve any question of
guilt or innocence. Commonwealth v. Crapo, 212 Mass.
209. The court in exercise of its discretion will permit
one accused to substitute a plea of not guilty and have
a trial if for any reason the granting of the privilege
seems fair and just. Swang v. State, 2 Coldw. (Tenn.)
212; State v. Maresca, 85 Conn. 509; State v. Nicholas,
46 Mont. 470, 472; State v. Stephens, 71 Mo. 535; People.
v. McCrory, 41 Cal. 458, 461; State v. Coston, 113 La.
717, 720; Bishop's New Criminal Procedure, ยง 747.
The effect of the court's order permitting the withdrawal was to adjudge that the plea of guilty be held for
naught. Its subsequent use as evidence against petitioner
was in direct conflict with that determination. When
the plea was annulled it ceased to be evidence. By permitting it to be given weight the court reinstated it pro
tanto. Heim v. United States, supra, 493. The conflict
was not avoided by the court's charge. Giving to the
withdrawn plea any weight is in principle quite as inconsistent with the prior order as it would be to hold the plea
conclusive. Under the charge, if the plea was found not
improperly obtained, the jury was required to give it
weight unless petitioner was shown to be innocent. And
if admissible at all, such plea inevitably must be so considered. As a practical matter, it could not be received
as evidence without putting petitioner in a dilemma
utterly inconsistent with the determination of the court
awarding him a trial. Its introduction may have turned
the scale against him. "The withdrawal of a plea of
guilty is a poor privilege, if, notwithstanding its withdrawal, it may be used in evidence under the plea of
not guilty." White v. State, supra, 290. It is beside the

