852

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

274 U. S.

the Commission did not consider, or intend to make any
findings as to, the Idaho intrastate rates on logs. The
respondent misinterpreted the effect of the rate advances
made in 1918 and 1920. The orders making them did
not affect the rights of the carriers or the duties of respondent in respect of subsequent rate reductions. The
findings of the Interstate Commerce Commission permitting reductions of interstate rates did not justify respondent in declining to proceed to a hearing or in adopting
such findings as the basis of its order. And, as no reduction of the corresponding interstate log, rates has been
made by petitioners or ordered by the Interstate Commerce Commission, the respondent's order destroys the
relation between the intrastate and the interstate log rates
in the same territory. It is impossible to sustain the refusal to consider the evidence introduced by the carriers
to show that the rates in question are too low and confiscatory. The commission and the court erred in holding
that the reasonableness or validity of the intrastate log
rates depends on the amounts received by petitioners for
the interstate transportation of lumber. It is clear that
the methods by which respondent reached its conclusion
were arbitrary and constitute a denial of due process of
law.
Judgment reversed.
HESS v. PAWLOSKI.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF WORCESTER COUNTY,
MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 263. Argued April 18, 1927.-Decided May 16, 1927.
Massachusetts Gen. Ls., c. 90, as amended by Stat. 1923, c. 431, § 2,
which declares that use of the State's highways by a non-resident
motorist shall be deemed equivalent to an appointment by him
of the registrar as his attorney upon whom process may be served

HESS v. PAWLOSKI_5

353

Opinion of the Court.

852

in any action growing out of any accident or collision in which the
non-resident may be involved while operating a motor vehicle upon
such highways, and which provides for service in such case by
leaving a copy of the process and a fee with the registrar or in his
office, but conditions the sufficiency of the service upon the sending
of notice of it forthwith and a copy of the process to the defendant
by registered mail and upon his actually receiving and receipting
for the same, and which allows the non-resident when so served
such continuances as may be necessary to afford him a reasonable
opportunity to defend the action,-held not in conflict with the
Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Kane v. New
Jersey, 242 U. S. 160. P. 355.
250 Mass. 22; 253 Mass. 478, affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Superior Court of Worcester

County, Massachusetts, entered on rescript from the Supreme Judicial Court, sustaining a verdict for damages in

an action for personal injuries inflicted on Pawloski, the
plaintiff, by the negligent driving of a motor vehicle, by
Hess, non-resident defendant, on a Massachusetts highway.
Mr. George Gowen Parryfor plaintiff in error.

Mr. HarryJohn Meleski was on the bief for defendant
in error.
MR. JusTic

BuTrLBR delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This action was brought by defendant in error to recover damages for personal injuries. The declaration
alleged that plaintiff in error negligently and wantonly
drove a motor vehicle on a public highway in Massachu-

setts and that by reason thereof the vehicle struck and
injured defendant in error. Plaintiff in error is a resident of Pennsylvania. No personal service was made on
him and no property belonging to him was attached.
The service of process was made in compliance with c.
55514°--28-23

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

90, General Laws of Massachusetts, as amended by Stat.
1923, c. 431, t§ 2, the material parts of which follow:
"The acceptance by a non-resident of the rights and
privileges conferred by section three or four, as evidenced
by his operating a motor vehicle thereunder, or the operation by a non-resident of a motor vehicle on a public
way in the commonwealth other than under said sections,
shall be deemed equivalent to an appointment by such
non-resident of the registrar or his successor in office, to
be his true and lawful attorney upon whom may be served
all lawful processes in any action or proceeding against
him, growing out of any accident or collision in which
said non-resident may be involved while operating a
motor vehicle on such a way, and said acceptance or operation shall be a signification of his agreement that any
such process against him which is so served shall be of
the same legal force and validity as if served on him personally. Service of such process shall be made by leaving a copy of the process with a fee of two dollars in the
hands of the registrar, or in his office, and such service
shall be sufficient service upon the said non-resident; provided, that notice of such service and a copy of the process are forthwith sent by registered mail by the plaintiff
to the defendant, and the defendant's return receipt and
the plaintiff's affidavit of compliance herewith are appended to the writ and entered with the declaration.
The court in which the action is pending may order such
continuances as may be necessary to afford the defendant
reasonable opportunity to defend the action."
Plaintiff in error appeared specially for the purpose of
contesting jurisdiction and filed an answer in abatement
and moved to dismiss on the ground that the service of
process, if sustained, would deprive him of his property
without due process of law in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment. The court overruled the answer in abatement and denied the motion. The Supreme Judicial

HESS v. PAWLOSKI.
352

355

Opinion of the Court.

Court held the statute to be a valid exercise of the police
power, and affirmed the order. 250 MasS. 22. At the
trial the contention was renewed and again denied.
Plaintiff in error excepted. The jury returned a verdict
for defendant in error. The exceptions were overruled
by the Supreme Judicial Court. 253 Mass. 478. Thereupon the Superior Court -entered judgment. The writ
of error was allowed by the chief justice of that court.
The question is whether the Massachusetts enactment
contravenes the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
The process of a court of one State cannot run into
another and summon a party there domiciled to respond
to proceedings against him. Notice sent outside the
State to a non-resident is unavailing to give jurisdiction
in an action against him personally for money recovery.
Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714. There must be actual
service within the State of notice upon him or upon some
one authorized to accept service for him. Goldey v.
Morning News, 156 U. S. 518. A personal judgment rendered against a non-resident who has neither been served
with process nor appeared in the suit is without validity.
McDonald v. Mabee, 243 U. S. 90. The mere transaction
of business in a State by non-resident natural persons
does not imply consent to be bound by the process of its
courts. Flexner v. Farson, 248 U. S. 289. The power of
a State to exclude foreign corporations, although not absolute but qualified, is the ground on which such an implication is supported as to them. Pennsylvania Fire
Insurance Co. v. Gold Issue Mining Co., 243 U. S. 93, 96.
But a State may not withhold from non-resident individuals the right of doing business therein. The privileges and immunities clause of the Constitution, § 2, Art.
IV, safeguards to the citizens of one State the right "to
pass through, or to reside in any other state for purposes
of trade, agriculture, professional pursuits, or otherwise."

356

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

And it prohibits state legislation discriminating against
citizens of otler States, Corfield v. Coryell, 4 Wash. C. C.
371, 381; Ward v. Maryland, 12 Wall. 418, 430; Paul v.
Virginia, 8 Wall. 168, 180.
Motor vehicles are dangerous machines; and, even
when skillfully and carefully operated, their use is attended by serious dangers to persons and property. In
the public interest the State may make and enforce regulations reasonably calculated to promote care on the
part of all, residents and non-residents alike, who use its
highways. The measure in question operates to require
a non-resident to answer for his conduct in the State
where arise causes of action alleged against him, as well
as to provide for a claimant a convenient method by
which he may sue to enforce his rights. Under the statute the implied consent is limited to proceedings growing
out of accidents or collisions on a highway in which the
non-resident may be involved. It is required that he
shall actually receive and receipt for notice of the service
and a copy of the process. And it contemplates such continuances as may be found necessary to give reasonable
time and opportunity for defense. It makes no hostile
discrimination against non-residents but tends to put
them on the same footing as residents. Literal and precise equality in respect of this matter is not attainable;
it is not required. CanadianNorthern Ry. Co. v. Eggen,
252 U. S. 553, 561-562. The State's power to regulate
the use of its highways extends to their use by non-residents as well as by residents. Hendrick v. Maryland,
235 U. S. 610, 622. And, in advance of the operation of
a motor vehicle on its highway by a non-resident, the
State may require him to appoint one of its officials as
his agent on whom process may be served in proceedings
growing out of such use. Kane v. New Jersey, 242 U. S.
160, 167. That case recognizes power of the State to exclude a non-resident until the formal appointment is

made. And, having the power so to exclude, the State

