OCTOBER TERM, 1926.

304

Syllabus.

274 U. S.

He insists that more cannot bp deducted from the original
cost in making the return for 1917. The contention is
unsound. The amount of the gain on the sale is not dependent on the amount claimed in earlier years. If in any
year he has failed to claim, or has been denied, the amount
to which he was entitled, rectification of the error must
be sought through a review of the action of the Bureau
for that year. He cannot choose the year in which he
will take a reduction. On the other hand, we cannot
accept the Government's contention that the full amount
of depreciation and depletion sustained, whether allowable by law as a deduction from gross income in past
years or njot, must be deducted from cost in ascertaining
gain or loss.

Congress doubtless intended that the de-

duction to be made from the original cost should be the
aggregate amount which the taxpayer was entitled to
deduct in the several years.
The findings do not enable us to determine what that
aggregate is. The sale included several properties purchased at different times. The deduction allowable in
the several years for each of the properties is not found.
Under the Act of 1913 the full amount of the depletion
was not necessarily deductible. In order that the-amount
of the gain in 1917 may be determined in the light of such
facts, the case is remanded for further proceedings in
accordance with this opinion.
Reversed.
ST. LOUIS & SAN FRANCISCO RAILROAD COMPANY ET AL. v. SPILLER ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRcUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 577. Argued April 12, 1927.-Decided May 16, 1927.
1. Assuming that a shipper's claim for moneys collected from him
by a railroad through excessive charges might be entitled to prefer-

ST. LOUIS & S. F. R. R. v. SPILLER.

305

Syllabus.

304

ential payment from receivers of the railroad, subsequently appointed, if the moneys were traced into their hands, they are not
so traced by showing that, for years which elapsed between the
time of the overcharges and the transfer of the railroad property
from the receivership to a new company, the old company and
the receivers had at all times in banks on which checks for current
expenses were drawn, an aggregate working balance largely exceeding the claim. P. 309.
2. The equitable doctrine giving preferential payment out of operating income accruing during a railroad receivership to debts previously incurred by the railroad corporation for labor, supplies,
etc., does not apply to liabilities for excess charges illegally exacted
of a shipper which accrued many years before the receivership
began. P. 310.
3. A claim to recover excess transportation charges which arose
many years before the property of the railroad making them went
into the hands of receivers and passed to a new company, can not
be allowed preferential payment on the ground of public policy.
P. 311.
4. A provision in a decree foreclosing a railway mortgage which
exempted the purchaser from paying claims not already presented
in accordance with orders theretofore made, excepting claims which
is to be construed as
entry of inthethedecree,
"arise"
after "arise"
might
sense of " accrue "; and a
employing
the term
claim for overcharges against the mortgagor railroad arose in that
sense at least as early. as the time when the claimant obtained his
reparation order from the Interstate Commerce Commission and
not when judgment was recovered upon the order. P. 312.
5. An unsecured creditor of an insolvent railroad has no standing to
attack a reorganization plan upon the ground that he was not
offered an opportunity to participate, when his exclusion was due
to his own failure to file his claim in the foreclosure suit within the
time limited by an order. P. 313.
6. In this connection, it is immaterial that the excluded creditor had
no actual knowledge of the order limiting time for filing claims,
notice by publication being legally sufficient; nor did the fact that
his claim was being contested in other litigation prevent him from
filing it on time. P. 313.
7. Where an unsecured creditor of a railroad prosecuted his claim
diligently in an independent suit before and after the railroad
passed into a receivership and was sold to a new company pursuant
to a plan of reorganization, during which period his suit was
55514O--28-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Counsel for Parties.

274 U. S.

resisted by the railroad, the receivers, and counsel for the new
company, successively; and where, having recovered judgment after
the sale, he appeared at the hearing on the order to confirm the
sale and gave notice to the old company, the receivers, the reorganization committee, and the new company of his claim and that
the judgment would be a charge on the property in the hands of
the purchaser, notwithstanding which the new company continued
defending his suit and the new securities were issued, Held, that
the creditor was not guilty of laches; that his failure to file his
claim within the time limited in the foreclosure case and thus conform to the terms of the reorganization plan, did not bar him
from participating in its benefits with the other unsecured creditors,
if that were still equitably possible; and that such relief might be
had as well upon an intervening petition as upon an original bill.
P. 314.
14 F. (2d) 284, reversed in part, affirmed in part.
CERTIORARI (273 U. S. 680) to a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals which reversed a decree of the District
Court dismissing an intervening petition in a railroad
foreclosure suit.

Mr. FrederickH. Wood, with whom Messrs. Edward T.
Miller, Alexander P. Stewart, and Robert T. Swaine were
on the briefs, for petitioners.
Messrs. Walter H. Saunders and David A. Murphy,
with whom Messrs. S. H. Cowan and John S. Leahy were
on the brief, for respondents.
Messrs. Edward J. White and Thomas T. Railey filed a
brief as amici curiae, by special leave of Court, on behalf
of the Missouri Pacific Railroad Company.
Messrs. North T. Gentry, Attorney General of Missouri,
and Lee B. Ewing filed a brief as amici curiae, by special
leave of Court, on behalf of the State of Missouri.
Mr. Clifford B. Allen filed a brief as amicus curiae, by
special leave of Court.

ST. LOUIS & S. F. R. R. v. SPILLER.
304

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUsTIcE BRANDEIs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In 1913, the federal court for eastern Missouri appointed receivers for the St. Louis and San Francisco
Railroad. In 1916, the system was sold on foreclosure,
was purchased for the Reorganization Committee and
was conveyed to the St. Louis-San Francisco Railway
Company, which has operated it since. In 1920, Spiller
recovered in the federal court for western Missouri a
judgment against the old company in personam for
$30,212.31 and for counsel fees taxed as costs pursuant
to § 16 of the Act to Regulate Commerce.1 Thereupon,
he filed in the receivership suit,' upon leave granted, an
intervening petition praying that the judgment be satisfied out of the property so acquired by the new company.
The Master recommended that the prayers of the petition be granted. The District Court denied Spiller any
relief and dismissed the intervening petition without
costs to either party. 288 Fed. 612. The Court of Appeals reversed the decree; remanded the case to the lower
court with directions to enter a decree for Spiller in the
amount of the judgment with interest but without counsel fees; declared that the judgment was prior in lien and
superior in equity to the mortgages of the old company;
and directed that it be enforced against the property
conveyed to the new company. 14 F. (2d) 284. This
Court granted the petition of the two companies for a
writ of certiorari. 273 U. S. 680.
The judgment which Spiller seeks to enforce through
the intervening petition was entered by the trial court
I The intervening petition and the decree cover also another judgment for $3,652.97 in favor of Spiller and others.
2 There were in fact four suits; two brought by unsecured creditors
and two by the trustees of mortgages under which the foreclosure was

had. All the suits were consolidated in May, 1914.

308

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

in 1916, after the foreclosure sale and before confirmation thereof; was reversed by the Court of Appeals in
1918; and was reinstated by this Court in 1920. Spiller
v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co., 253 U. S. 117.
It is for overcharges collected by the old company, in
1906, 1907 and 1908 under a freight tariff which had been
increased in 1903 and which was held by the Interstate
Commerce Commission to be unreasonable in 1905, and
again in 1908. Cattle Raisers' Association v. Missouri,
Kansas & Texas R. R. Co. et al., 11 I. C. C. 296; 13
I. C. C. 418. The action in which the judgment was recovered was begun in 1914, after the appointment of the
receivers. The reparation order on which the action was
based was entered also after their appointment; but the
petition for reparation was filed prior thereto.
The validity of the judgment as against the old company is not challenged in this proceeding. The question
here is whether Spiller is entitled to have it satisfied out
of the property of the new company. The railroads contend that in nature the claim is one not entitled to preferential payment; and that, in any event, Spiller is barred
by laches or otherwise from obtaining any relief in this
suit. The Court of Appeals held that the old company
became liable as trustee ex maleficio for overcharges and
that this liability is enforceable,' as upon a constructive
trust, against the property acquired by the new company
on foreclosure. It held further that Spiller was not
barred by laches or otherwise, because of the provision
of the foreclosure decree, by which the purchaser became
bound to pay, as a part of the purchase price, any unpaid claims of creditors of the old company which should
be adjudged superior in equity to its mortgages, the court
reserving to itself jurisdiction to determine the amount
and validity of any such claim.
First. The contention that the judgment constitutes a
lien or equity upon the property of the new company,

ST. LOUIS & S. F. R. R. v. SPILLER.
304

Opinion of the Court.

as upon a constructive trust, rests upon the following
argument. The freight rates being unreas6nable were
unlawful. The shipper was obliged to pay the charges
exacted, although they were unlawful, because they were
the published rates. As the shipper was obliged to pay
the unlawful charges the payment was made under duress. One may be held as trustee ex maleficio of funds
obtained by duress as well as of those procured by fraud.
The old company by collecting the unlawful charges became trustee ex maleficio of the funds collected. These
can be traced and may be followed. They passed to the
receivers who took the funds with notice and without
paying value. Upon the foreclosure they passed to the
new company. It also took them with notice and is subject to the trust, either because the shipper's equitable
lien or interest was not cut off by the foreclosure sale,
to one with notice, in a suit to which the shipper was
not a party, or because the new company agreed to pay
pursuant to the foreclosure decree claims prior in lien
and superior in equity to the mortgages of the old
company.
We need not consider whether, in the absence of legislation, charges illegally exacted by a carrier may be recovered under the doctrine of a constructive trust; or
whether the alleged equitable remedy is applicable to
overcharges subject to the Interstate Commerce Act,
which provides a different remedy; ' or whether the equitable remedy, if any, has been lost by proceeding to
judgment at law. For, even if the overcharges when collected, were subject to a constructive trust in favor of
the shipper, the contention that the money exacted by
3 See §§ 8, 16(1), and 16(2) of the Interstate Commerce Act as
it stood at the time of the overcharges in question, Act of Feb. 4,
1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, 382, 384, as amended by the Act of June
29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, 590. See also Texas & Pacific Ry.
Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426.

310

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U.S.

the old company in 1906, 1907 and 1908 can be traced
into the hands of the receivers is unfounded. The money
was not ear-marked. It was mingled when collected with
other money received from operation. And no special
account was kept of it. The latest exaction occurred five
years before ttle appointment of the receivers. The assertion that the money collected can be traced into the
receiver's hands is confessedly without any support except the stipulated fact that, throughout the ten years
which elapsed between the earliest exaction and the transfer of the properties to the new company, the old one
and the receivers had, at all times, in the several banks
on which checks for current expenses were drawn, a working balance, in the aggregate, largely in excess of Spiller's
claim. Such a showing fails to bring the present case
within the rule by which, when trust funds are mingled
with others, the cestui may assert an equitable lien upon
the mingled mass to the extent of his contribution
thereto.4 American Can Co. v. Williams, 178 Fed. 420,
423; In re A. D. Matthews' Sons, 238 Fed. 785, 787. An
illegal exaction does not impress an indelible trust upon
all funds which the wrongdoer and his successors may
thereafter have on deposit in their banks. For aught that
appears, all the money illegally exacted may have been
spent for current operating expenses.
Second. Spiller contends that he was entitled to preferential payment of his judgment for the excess charges,
out of operating income accruing during the receivership, on the doctrine of Fosdick v. Schall, 99 U. S. 235,
251-255. See New York Dock Co. v. S. S. "Poznan,"
4 Compare National Bank v. Insurance Co., 104 U. S. 54, 63-68;
Schuyler v. Littlefield, 232 U. S. 707, 710; United States v. Leary,
245 U. S. 1, 5; Cunningham v. Brown, 265 U. S. 1, 11-13; Southern
Cotton Oil Co. v. Elliotte, 218 Fed. 567, 570-571; In re A. Bolognesi
& Co., 254 Fed. 770; Knatchbull v. Htallett, 13 Ch. Div. 696.

ST. LOUIS & S. F. R. R. v. SPILLER.
304

Opinion of the Court.

ante, p. 117. It is argued that the test of this equity
is the nature of the claim; that a liability for excess
charges unlawfully exacted by the carrier before the
receivership is an expense of operation like a debt incurred for labor, supplies, equipment or improvements;
and that, as such, it is entitled to priority over bondholders. We need not determine whether the noncontractual claim here in suit is in its nature within the
class of debts entitled to preferential payment under the
doctrine of Fosdick v. Schall. For, by long established
practice, the doctrine has been applied only to unpaid
expenses incurred within six months prior to the appointment of the receivers. See Lackawanna Coal Co. v.
Trust Co., 176 U. S. 298, 316. Compare Gregg v. Metropolitan Trust Co., 197 U. S. 183. The cases in which this
time limit was not observed, are few in number and exceptional in character. See Burnham v. Bowen, 111 U. S.
776, 780-783; Union Trust Co. v. Morrison, 125 U. S.
591. In no case which has come to our attention has the
doctrine been applied to liabilities which, like those here
in question, accrued many years before the receivership
began.
Third. Preferential payment is urged also on the
ground of public policy. The argument is that the carrier is invested through its franchise with a part of the
sovereign power; that in the exercise of the power conferred the old company exacted illegal rates which the
shipper was obliged by law to pay; that when the old
company's property passed into the hands of the court it
was augmented by the illegal exactions; that it became
the court's duty to make restitution; and that, having
failed to do so while the property was in its hands, the
court m~y require payment from the new company. It
may be assumed that this claim for overcharges is meritorious in character; but the fact that it arose many

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

years before the appointment of the receivers is conclusive against including it among those entitled to preferential payment.
Fourth. In order to establish as against the new company either the alleged equity or a right to preferential
payment, it was moreover assumed to be necessary that
the claim should be one of those which the purchaser, under the decree of foreclosure, agreed to pay, as part of
the purchase price. The decree provided that the
purchaser would not be required to pay any "claim or
demand which has not been presented in this cause in
accordance with the orders heretofore made requiring presentation thereof" unless it be "a claim or demand which
may arise after the entry of this decree." An interlocutory decree had ordered that all claims be presented before February 1, 1916 or be barred of enforcement against
the property in the hands of the receivers or the proceeds thereof. Due notice of the order had been given
by publication. Spiller did not file his claim within the
time limited. He contends that the time limit has no
application to his claim, because it arose after entry of
the decree.
The argument is that, while the claim accrued in 1914,
when the reparation order was entered, or earlier, when
the overcharges were illegally collected, it did not " arise"
until 1920, when this Court, reversing the Court of Appeals, reinstated the judgment souglft to be enforced by
the intervening petition; that, in this connection, the
term "arise" must have been used by the District Court
in a sense different from "accrue."
for, 'knowing
through its receivers, that their counsel were, at the time
of the entry of the decree of foreclosure, hotly contesting
Spiller's claim, and that he was asserting that it was superior in equity to the mortgages to be foreclosed, and
knowing also that the claim had not been filed in the receivership suit, the court must have intended that, if

ST. LOUIS & S. F. R. R. v. SPILLER.
304

Opinion of the Court.

Spiller ultimately prevailed, his claim should be satisfied
by the new company. Unless so construed, the provision
for claims which may "arise" after the decree would be
practically inoperative. The argument is not persuasive.
We are of opinion that the term," arise" was used in the
decree as the equivalent of "accrue "; that Spiller's claim
arose at least as early as 1914, when the reparation order
was entered, not when the judgment was recovered; and
that the new company did not assume to pay it. See
Phillips v. Grand Trunk RBy. Co., 236 U. S. 662, 666.
Moreover, while the barring clause of the final decree
excepted claims arising after entry thereof, the clause
stating the liability of the purchaser included only claims
against the old company which should be adjudged prior
in equity to the old company's mortgages. We have already decided that the claims in question are not of such
a character.
Fifth. Spiller contends also that he is entitled, under
the doctrine of Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Boyd, 228
U. S. 482, to require the new company to satisfy in full
his judgment against the old. The argument is that, under the reorganization plan, stockholders of the old company were allowed to participate in the new, but that he,
a creditor, was not offered an opportunity to do so.
There is no evidence in the record which supports the
assertion that Spiller was not afforded an opportunity of
participating in the reorganization. The contrary appears. The- order confirming the foreclosure recites that
"a fair and timely offer of cash . . . or participation" was made to those unsecured creditors who had
filed claims. Spiller did not file his claim. The fact
that he did not have actual knowledge of the order limiting the time for filing claims is not material in this connection. Notice by publication was legally sufficient.
The mere fact that his claim was contested did not exclude him from the scope of the order. He might have

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

filed it although he was litigating elsewhere. He cannot
bring himself within the doctrine of the Boyd case by
showing that no offer was made to him personally. For
aught that appears an offer would have been made, or
his rights otherwise preserved, if he had filed his claim.
There is no occasion to consider whether a petition for
intervention filed in the receivership proceedings four
years after confirmation of the foreclosure sale is an appropriate method of enfarcing the claim on this theory.
Sixth. While the Court of Appeals erred in granting
the specific relief prayed in the petition for intervention,
it does not follow that Spiller must be denied all remedy.
He was guilty of a serious inadvertence in not filing his
claim in the receivership suit within the time limited by
the interlocutory order. But it is clear that he has not
been guilty of laches. Southern Pacific Co. v. Bogert,
250 U. S. 483, 488-490. And it does not appear that his
inadvertence misled in any way the court, the receivers,
the Reorganization Committee or the new company. He
had prosecuted his claim with vigor for years before the
receivers were appointed. His diligence does not appear
to have slackened either during the receivership or after
the foreclosure sale. *Throughout the whole period, the
claim appears to have been resisted with equal vigor.
After the old company ceased to function, counsel for the
receivers conducted the defense. After the receivers
ceased to function, counsel for the new company conducted the defense. It is clear that neither the receivers
nor the new company considered the failure to file the
claim in the receivership a bar to the relief.
Before Spiller recovered judgment in the trial court,
the sale on foreclosure was had; but the hearing on the
order to confirm the sale was yet to be held. At that
hearing Spiller gave, before the confirmation of the sale,
notice in open court, and otherwise to the old company,
to the receivers, to the Reorganization Committee and

ST. LOUIS & S. F. R. R. v. SPILLER.
204

315

Opinion of the Court.

to the new company, that he had recovered judgment
fourteen days before. He notified them that he claimed
that the purchaser would take the property subject to all
his rights; and that these included a charge upon the
property in the hands of the purchaser for full payment
of the judgment. With knowledge of Spiller's claims,
the Reorganization Committee and the new company
took over the property. Later, the new company assumed the further defense to the action in which the
judgment had been recovered. The issue of the securities of the new company and the distribution of its stock
among stockholders in the old occurred after these notices
of Spiller's claim had been given. Under such circumstances, neither the long delay, nor the failure to file
claims as required by the interlocutory and final decrees,
should operate to prevent the appropriate relief; r and
the District Court had jurisdiction to grant it. Compare
Julian v. Central Trust Co., 193 U. S. 93; Wabash Railroad v. Adelbert College, 208 U. S. 38, 5,-57.
The new company contends, that since the shipper's
claim was not filed within the time limited by the interlocutory decree, it was among those declared barred by
the terms of the final decree; and that by intervening he
estopped himself from obtaining any relief.0 No good
reason is shown why relief may not be had as well upon
an intervening petition as upon an original bill. As this
may be done, he should be put, as nearly as may be consistently with the rights of others, into the position which
he would have occupied had he filed his claim in the
5

See Williams v. Gibbes, 17 How. 239, 254-257; Park v. New
York, L. E. & W. R. R. Co., 140 Fed. 799; Employers' Assur. Corp. v.
Mahogany Co., 6 F (2d) 945. Compare Farmers' Trust Co. v.
Chicago, etc., R. R. Co., 118 Fed. 204; Western N. Y., etc. Ry. Co.
v. Penn Refining Co., 137 Fed. 343.
6 Compare Swift v. Black Panther Gas Co., 244 Fed. 20; Commercial Electrical Supply Co. v. Curtis, 288 Fed. 657.

