FIDELITY NAT. BANK v. SWOPE.
117

Syllabus.

mits it to be rendered, and it inures to the benefit of the
property or funds in its custody.
Objection is made that the amount found by the special
master and confirmed by the district court as the-reasonable value of the wharfage furnished is excessive, but this
issue of fact was fairly tried. The finding of the special
commissioner is supported by the evidence and should
not be disturbed here. Respondent attempts to raise
here questions with respect to the amount of recovery
which were neither raised nor considered below. We have
examined them only so far as is necessary to ascertain that
no error was committed by the district court so plain or
apparent as to warrant our consideration on such a state
of the record. Cf. Pierce v. United States, 255 U. S. 398,
405; Hiawassee Power Co. v. Carolina-Tenn. Co., 252
U. S. 341; Ill. Cent. R. R. v. Mulberry Coal Co., 238
U. S. 275, 281; Givens v. Zerbst, 255 U. S. 11, 22; Tilden
v. Blair, 21 Wall. 241, 249.
The decree below must be reversed and that of the
District Court reinstated.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES took no part in the consideration

and decision of this case.
FIDELITY NATIONAL BANK & TRUST COMPANY
OF KANSAS CITY ET AL. V, SWOPE ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 46. Argued April 29, 30, 1926.-Decided April 11, 1927.
1. Where jurisdiction of the District Court was based on diverse
citizenship as well as the constitutional question raised by the bill,
its decree was appealable to the Circuit Court of Appeals, (Jud.
Code § 128), and the decree of that court appealable here, under
Jud. Code § 241, before amendment. P. 125.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Counsel for Parties.

274 U. S.

2. In a suit under § 28 of Art. VIII of the Kansas City Charter,
to validate a special improvement ordinance and proposed assessmepts of the cost on the lands within the benefit district described
in the ordinance, notice to the property owners by publication in
a local newspaper is sufficient to constitute due process. Pp. 130,
134.
3. A proceeding under § 28 of Art. VIII of the Kansas City Charter,
brought in a state court of plenary jurisdiction by the City
against the owners of property in a benefit district for the purpose
of determining the validity of an ordinance authorizing a special
improvement and of proposed assessments and liens under the
ordinance, is a judicial proceeding in which the sole duty of the
court is to pass on questions of law and to inquire judicially into
the facts only so far as necessary in applying the law-a "case " or
"controversy," within the meaning of Const. Art. III,§ 2; and
a judgment validating the ordinance and proposed liens is res
judicata, preventing further litigation of these matters by the
property owner or his privies in the state or federal courts, otherwise thaia by appeal. P. 130.
4. A decision of the state supreme court determining the effect of
judgments in such proceedings, as res judicata,must be accepted by
this Court, though rendered after the litigation which raised the
question in this Court was begun. P. 134.
5. In a suit of the kind above described, the contractor who subsequently does the improvement work, and those to whom he assigns
the tax bills he receives in payment are represented by the City;
so that the estoppel may be availed of by such assignees in a suit
by a property owner to annul their tax bills. P. 135.
6. Award of process of execution is not an indispensable adjunct to
exercise of the judicial function. P. 132.
2 F. (2d) 676, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affirmed a decree of the District Court (274 Fed.
801) adjudging void and canceling certain tax bills, held
by appellants, which had been issued to defray the cost of
grading a boulevard in Kansas City.
Messrs. Frank P. Barker and JustinD. Bowersock, with
whom Messrs. Samuel J. McCulloch and Hunter M. Meri-

wether were on the brief, for appellants.

FIDELITY NAT. BANK v. SWOPE.
123

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Elliott H. Jones, with whom Messrs. W. C. &carritt,
Edward S. North, and A. D. Scarritt were on the brief, for
appellees.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Appellees brought suit in the District Court for western
Missouri to have certain assessments of benefits on their
lands for the alleged pro rata share of tho cost of grading
Meyer Boulevard in Kansas City declared null and void,
and to have canceled certain tax bills issued to defray
the cost of grading. Appellants are the holders of these
bills which they acquired by purchase. The jurisdiction
of the district court rested upon diversity of citizenship
and the allegation in the bill that the assessments and the
proceedings had in levying them violated the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The district court,
after trial, gave judgment for the relief prayed, 274 Fed.
801, which was affirmed by the court of appeals for the
eighth circuit. 2 F. (2d) 676.
Since the jurisdiction of the district court was based
upon grounds in addition to the constitutional question
raised by the bill, the appeal was rightly taken to the
circuit court of appeals. Jud. Code, § 128. The case is
properly here on appeal from that court. 3ud. Code,
§ 241, before amended. Risty v. Chicago, R. I. & Pac.
Ry. Co., 270 U. S. 378; Weiland v. PioneerIrrigationCo.,
259 U. S. 498.
The city council of Kansas City, by ordinance adopted
in 1915, authorized the present grading improveient.
Meyer Boulevard, as projected, is a broad highway extending westwardly from Swope Park, a large public park in
Kansas City, connecting with numerous boulevards
extending north into the business section of the city. The
boulevard varies from two hundred to five hundred feet
in width. Provisioi is made for parkways betwen. thb

126

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

drivdways so that, of the total improved area of thirtyone acres, approximately twenty acres are made up of a
grass parkway. The carrying out of the project involved
extensive grading and relatively large expense.
Section 3, Art. VIII of the Kansas City charter imposes
the cost of ordinary street grading upon the owners of
abutting property extending a limited distance from the
street. But in view of the extraordinary character of the
projected improvement of Meyer Boulevard, proceedings
were had under § 28 of Art. VIII of the city charter.
This section, printed so far as relevant in the margin,1
establishes a procedure which may be followed for levying
a special tax on any lands benefited when the improvement involves an "unusual amount of filling in or cutting
or grading away . .
necessitating an expense of
"' When in grading or regrading any street, avenue, highway, or
part thereof, a very large or unusual amount of filling in or cutting
or grading away of earth or rock be necessary, necessitating an expense of such magnitude as to impose too heavy a burden on the
land situate in the benefit district as limited in Section three .
the cost of grading or regrading such street,

.

.

.

may be charged

as a special tax on parcels of land (exclusive of improvements) benefited thereby, after deducting the portion of the whole cost, if any,
which the city may pay, and in proportion to the benefits accruing
to the said several parcels of land, exclusive of improvements thereon,
and not exceeding the amount of said benefit, said benefits to be determined by the Board of Public Works as hereinafter provided, and
the limits within which parcels of land are benefited shall in all such
specified instances be prescribed and determined by ordinance ...
"The public work described above shall be provided for by ordinance, and the city may provide that after the passage of the ordinance and after an approximate estimate of the cost of the work
shall have been made by the Board of Public Works, the city shall file
a proceeding in the Circuit Court of Jackson County, Missouri, in
the name of the city, against the respective owners of land chargeable
under the provisions of this section with the cost of such work. In
such proceeding the city shall allege the passage and approval of the
ordinance providing for the work, and the approximate estimate of
the cost of said work; and shall define and set forth the limits of the

FIDELITY NAT. BANK v. SWOPE.
123

127

Opinion of the Court.

such magnitude as to impose too heavy a burden on the

land situate in the benefit district as limited in Section
three .
benefit district, prescribed by the ordinance, within which it is proposed to assess property for the payment of said work. The prayer
of the petition shall be that the court find and determine the validity
of said ordinance, and the question of whether or not the respective
tracts of land within said benefit district shall be charged with the
lien of said work in the manner provided by said ordinance.
"Service of process in such proceeding shall be governed by the
provisions of Section eleven (11) of Article thirteen (XIII) of this
Charter, relating to service of notice and summons in proceedings
for the ascertainment of benefits and damages for the condemnation
of land for parks and boulevards. In such proceedings, the city shall
have the right to offer evidence tending to prove the validity of said
ordinance, and said proposed lien against the respective lots, tracts
and parcels of land within said benefit district sought to be charged
with such lien; and the respective owners of lots, tracts and parcels
of land within said benefit district shall have the right to introduce
evidence tending to show the invalidity or lack of legality of said
ordinance, and said proposed lien against the respective lots, tracts,
and parcels of land owned by each respective defendant; and the
court shall have the right to determine the question of whether or not
the said lots, tracts and parcels of land owned by each defendant
should be charged with such lien.
"The trial of such proceeding shall be in accordance with the Constitution and Laws of the State, and the court shall render judgment
either validating such ordinance, and proposed lien against the lots,
tracts and parcels of land within said benefit district or against such
lots, tracts or parcels of land within said benefit district or against
such lots, tracts, or parcels of land as the court may find legally
chargeable with the same, or the court may render judgment that
such ordinance or proposed lien are, in whole or in part, invalid and
illegal.
"Any appeal taken from such judgment must be taken within ten
days after the rendition of such judgment, or if a motion for a new
trial be filed therein, then within ten days after such motion may be
overruled or otherwise disposed of; .
"If no appeal shall be taken, or after the determination of such
appeal, the city may enter into a contract with the successful bidder

128

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

Following the prescribed procedure, the city council
passed an ordinance authorizing the improvement now in
question, fixing the boundaries of the benefit district,
which embraced the lands of appellees, and directing that
the lands within the district should be assessed for the cost
of the improvement in proportion to their value as determined under the charter, The ordinance directed that
suit be brought by the city in the circuit court of Jackson
County against the property owners in the benefit district
for the purpose of validating the ordinance and the liens
for the cost of the improvements. The Board of Public
Works having made its estimate of the approximate cost
of the grading, suit was brought by the city in the Jackson County circuit court. Notice of the proceeding was
given all owners of property within the benefit district
by four weeks' publication in a designated local newspaper
in accordance with the statute. Proof of service was approved by the court. The appellee Swope entered no
appearance but the appellee Brown appeared and raised
by answer numerous objections to the ordinance and assessment, including those pressed here. The material
parts of the answer, set forth in the margin,' indicate the
to whom such work may be let; and, after the work under such contract shall have been fully completed, the estimate of cost thereof,
and the apportionment of the same against the various lots, tracts
and parcels of land within the benefit district, shall be made by the
Board of Public Works according to the assessed value thereof, exclusive of improvements, with the assistance of the City Assessor as

provided in Section three of this article, and all of the provisions of
Section three of this article relating to the apportionment of special
assessments, and the levy, issue and collection of special tax bills as
in grading proceedings as in said section specified, shall apply to
"
special tax bills issued pursuant to this section, .
2"Said parties state that they are the defendants herein and the
owners of said property, and that said property does not abut on
Meyer Boulevard; that the South line thereof is a quarter of a mile
from said boulevard, and the north line thereof is a half mile from

FIDELITY NAT. BANK v. SWOPE.
123

Opinion of the Court.

scope of this proceeding. After a hearing, the court entered its judgment declaring valid the ordinance and
the proposed assessments and liens, when effectuated in
accordance with the ordinance. The motion of the appellee Brown for a new trial was denied. No appeal was
taken from the decree of the court, which thus became
final. The city then let the contracts for the improvements, which have been completed. The costs have been
apportioned according to the valuation of the lands made
by the city assessor, and tax bills, including those held
by appellants, issued against the several tracts for the
proportionate part of the special benefit tax assessed.
In this suit to cancel the tax bills so issued, appellees
alleged that § 28 of Art. VIII of the charter and the
said Meyer Boulevard. Said defendants state that their property is
not directly benefited by the opening of said boulevard, and is only
remotely benefited, as all other property in Kansas City is. That
the property of defendants, above described, lines on one boulevard,
to-wit: Swope Parkway, upon which is operated a street car line, and
it can derive no particular and special benefit from the grading of
said Meyer Boulevard. That the grading of said boulevard will
greatly enhance the value of the property abutting on said boulevard,
and yet, in the apportionment of the cost of said grading, the property of said defendants, fronting on said Swope Parkway, may be
assessed at as great a sum as the property on said Meyer Boulevard,
and the effect would be that the special tax levied thereunder against
the property of defendants may equal, acre for acre, the special tax
assessed against the property immediately benefited, to-wit: the property abutting 6n said Meyer Boulevard.
"Defendants further state, that for the reasons, aforesaid, it would
be illegal and improper for the court to declare this ordinance valid,
and it would also be illegal for the reason that on its face thereof, the
charter provision authorizing this proceeding is void, for the reason
that it violates the Constitution of Missouri, and the Constitution of
the United States. It would be just as legal to provide that because
the paving of said Meyer Boulevard was of an unusual width, and
the cost of paving thereof excessive, that the land within half a mile
of said boulevard should pay in proportion to its value for the paving
of same."
5514o-28-9

130

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

city ordinance and all proceedings under them violated
the Constitution of the United States; that the levying
of the tax was an arbitrary and abusive exercise of legislative authority, in that (1) the improvement was general rather than local; (2) that the method of fixing the
benefit district was arbitrary, discriminatory and unreasonable, and (3) that the assessment according to the
value of the lands benefited, regardless of their remoteness from the improvement, resulted in an assessment
greatly exceeding the benefits.
Appellants at the outset argue that all the objections
made to the assessments here were open and hence decided against appellees in the proceeding in the Jackson
County circuit court, and that its judgment is not open
to collateral attack in this or in any other suit, since the
issues which might have been litigated there are res
adjudicatahere.
The proceedings in the circuit court were had upon
sufficient notice to constitute due process in proceedings
of this character. Lent v. Tillson, 140 U. S. 316; cf.
North Laramie Land Co. v. Hoffman, 268 U. S. 276.
The parties to it are concluded by the judgment if the
proceeding was judicial rather than legislative or administrative in character. Both courts below held that the
questions here in controversy at the time of the hearing
in the state court were "moot"; and, even if their adjudication was authorized by the legislature and was
specifically made by the circuit court, it would not be
binding upon the parties in the federal courts.
But if the determination of the state court was res
adjudicataaccording to its laws and procedure, no reason
is suggested, nor are we able to perceive any, why it is
not to be deemed res adjudicata here, if the proceeding
in the state court was a "case " or "controversy" within
the appellate jurisdiction of this Court, Fed. Const. Art.
III, § 2, so that constitutional rights asserted, or which

FIDELITY NAT. BANK v. SWOPE.
123

Opinion of the Court.

might have been asserted in that proceeding, could
eventually have been reviewed here.
That this proceeding authorized by § 28 of the Kansas
City charter was judicial in character appears from an
inspection of the statute and the record in the circuit
court. The proposed improvement having been authorized, the benefit district established, the estimated cost
ascertained, all by action of the city council or the board
of public works essentially legislative in character, the
jurisdiction of the state court was invoked in an adversary proceeding to determine the validity of the liens
imposed or to be imposed under the ordinance. That
court is a court of general jurisdiction, having plenary
power to determine all questions arising under the state
law or the laws and Constitution of the United States.
Section 2436 Mo. Rev. Stat. 1919; Schmelzer v. Kansas
City, 295 Mo. 322. These questions are required to be
determined in a trial in accordance with the laws and
constitution of the State. The sole duty and power of
the court is to pass upon questions of law and to inquire
judicially into the facts so far as necessary to ascertain
the applicable rules of law. See Keller v. Potomac Elec.
Co., 261 U. S. 428, 440. Under this procedure, the judgment to be awarded finally determines, subject to appeal,
the validity of the ordinance authorizing the improvement, the limits of the benefit district, the method of
apportioning benefits, and the validity of the proposed
liens. That the issues thus raised and judicially determined would constitute a case or controversy if raised and
determined in a suit brought by the taxpayer to enjoin further .proceedings under the ordinance could not fairly
be questioned. Compare Risty v. Chicago, R. I. & Pac.
Ry. Co., supra. They cannot be deemed any the less so
because through a modified procedure the parties are
reversed and the same issues are raised and finally determined at the behest of the city. We do not think sig-

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

nificant the fact that under § 28 the city might pay,
though it did not, a part of the cost of the improvement
and that the council, in authorizing the special tax, is
required to deduct from the estimated cost the amount
which may be paid by the city. These provisions could
not restrict the authority or capacity of the court to pass
upon the validity of the benefit district and the special
tax actually authorized by the ordinance.
While ordinarily a case or judicial controversy results in
a judgment requiring award of process of execution to
carry it into effect, such relief is not an indispensable adjunct to the exercise of the judicial function. Naturalization proceedings, Tutun v. United States, 270 U. S. 568;
suits to determine a matrimonial or other status; suits for
instructions to a trustee or for the construction of a will,
Traphagenv. Levy, 45 N. J. Eq. 448; bills of interpleader,
so far as the stakeholder is concerned, Wakeman v. Kingsland, 46 N. J. Eq. 113; bills to quiet title where the plaintiff rests his claim on adverse possession, Sharonv. Tucker,
144 U. S. 533; are familiar examples of judicial proceedings which result in an adjudication of the rights of litigants, although execution is not necessary to carry
the judgment into effect, in the sense that no damages are
required to be paid or acts to be performed by the-parties.
Cf. Kennedy v. Babcock, 19 Misc. (N. Y.) 87; Cohen v.
N. Y. Mutual Life Ins. Co., 50 N. Y. 610, 625. Nor is it
essential that only established and generally recognized
forms of remedy should be invoked. "Whenever the law
provides a remedy enforceable in the courts according to
the regular course of legal procedure, and that remedy is
pursued, there arises a case within the meaning of the
Constitution, whether the subject of the litigation be
property or status." Tutun v. United States, supra, 577.
Thus, naturalization proceedings, Tutun v. United States,
supra,or a special statutory proceeding to determine judicially whether the claim made by a domestic corporation

FIDELITY NAT. BANK v. SWOPE.
123

Opinion of the Court.

against a foreign country upon which an award had been
made by a United States commissioner pursuant to treaty,
had been furthered by fraud, the statute authorizing distribution of the fund in accordance with the judgment, La
Abra Silver Mining Co. v. United States, 175 U. S. 423,
are cases or controversies within the meaning of the Constitution.
Tregea v. Modesto IrrigationDistrict, 164 U. S. 179,
is cited as authority for the proposition that the proceeding had in the Missouri court is not judicial in character.
But this Court in that case rested its decision on its interpretation of the California statute in question. It held
in effect that the proceeding authorized was not adversary,
being a proceeding by the trustee of an irrigation district
against the district itself, and that it was essentially ex
parte, its purpose being to secure evidence on the basis of
which the court could render an advisory opinion as to the
validity of a pending bond issue. These were considerations which could only lead to the conclusion reached that
the proceeding was not a case or controversy of which this
Court could take cognizance in the exercise of its appellate
jurisdiction.
The present statute admits of no such construction.
The proceeding is in terms directed to be "against the respective owners of land chargeable under the provisions
of this section with the cost of such work," and the specific
issue to be determined by the judgment of the court is
whether or not the respective tracts in the benefit district
shall be charged with the lien as provided by the ordinance. The court is directed to render judgment "either
validating such ordinance, and proposed lien against the
lots, . . .
within said benefit district or against such
lots, . . .
as the court may find legally chargeable,
or the court may render judgment that such ordinance or proposed lien are, in whole or in part, invalid
and illegal." The plain effect of these provisions is to

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

authorize the court to examine and determine the validity
and effect of the legislative action in establishing the benefit district. The result of the proceeding is to establish
judicially as against the property owners in the district
the validity of such action and of the liens established or
to be established conformably to the statute on the specific
property described.
The issues presented and the subject matter are such
that the judicial power is capable of acting upon them.
There is no want of adverse parties necessary to the creation of a controversy as in Muskrat v. United States, 219
U. S. 346. The judgment is not merely advisory as in
Liberty Warehouse Co. v. Grannis, 273 U. S. 70; New
Jersey v. Sargent, 269 U. S. 328; Fairchildv. Hughes, 258
U. S. 126; Massachusettsv. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447; Texas
v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 258 U. S. 158, 162.
It operates to determine judicially the legal limits of the
benefit district and to-define rights of the parties in lands
specifically described in the pleadings. So far as it affects
owners of land in the benefit district who ar6 citizens of
other states, the controversy is a " suit" which may be removed to the federal courts. Jud. Code, § 28; Road District v. St. Louis Southwestern Ry.. 257 U. S. 547.
That the judgment is binding on the parties and their
privies and hence not open to collateral attack would seem
to be the only reasonable construction of the statute if
that- question were for us to decide. But the Supreme
Court of Missouri, since the pendency of the present suit,
has held that the judgment rendered by the Jackson
County Circuit Court in a similar proceeding is not open
to collateral attack by the property owners within the
benefit district, and that such property owners may not
litigate, in another suit, questions, including the constitutionality under the Fourteenth Amendment of the
assessments levied, which might have been raised in the
circuit court proceeding. Schmelzer v. Kansas City,
supra. This decision, although subsequent to the insti-

