OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Statement of the Case.
threatened

interference

with

274 U. S.

the rights of another.

Plainly no basis for such relief is disclosed in what is
said about water power development. At best the paragraph does no more than present abstract questions respecting the right of the plaintiff State and her citizens
to use the waters for such purposes in the indefinite
future. We are not at liberty to consider abstract questions. New Jersey v. Sargent, 269 U. S. 328. So the mo-

tion to strike out the paragraph must be sustained. This
ruling will be without prejudice, so that the plaintiff State,
if later on in a position to do so, may be free to litigate the
questions which the paragraph is intended to present.
Motion to strike out Paragraph III of bill of
complaint sustained without prejudice.
POWER MANUFACTURING COMPANY v.
SAUNDES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.

No. 258. Submitted March 16, 1927.-Decided May 31, 1927.
1. A state law restricting venue in transitory actions, if against a domestic corporation to a county where it has a place of business or in
which its chief officer resides, or, if against a natural person, to a
county where he resides or is found, but which permits that such
actions, when against a foreign corporation, be brought in any
county of the State, is unreasonable and arbitrary, and in violation
of the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, as
applied to a foreign corporation doing business in the State by her
permission and having a fixed place of business and an agent in one
county, but none, and no property or debts, in the county in which
the suit is instituted. P. 493.
2. A foreign corporation, by seeking and obtaining permission to do
business in a State, does not subject itself to provisions in the State
statutes which conflict with the Federal Constitution. P. 497.
169 Ark. 748, reversed.

to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Arkansas
which affirmed a judgment against the above-named cornERROR

POWER CO. v. SAUNDERS.
490

491

Opinion of The Court.

pany recovered by Saunders in an action for personal
injuries.
Messrs. George C. Lewis, George B. Pugh, and Thomas
S. Buzbee were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. William R. Donham for defendant in error.
MR. JusTIcE. VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This was an action to recover for a personal injury
sustained by the plaintiff while in the defendant's employ. The plaintiff was a citizen and resident of Ohio,
and the defendant was a corporation of that State.
Besides its activities in Ohio, the defendant maintained
a warehouse at Stuttgart, Arkansas, where it did a local
business. The plaintiff received his injury in that warehouse. The defendant had complied with the conditions
on which Arkansas permits foreign corporations to do a
local business within her limits, and as part of its compliance had named Stuttgart as its place of business in
the State and designated an agent residing there on whom
process against it might be served. See Crawford &
Moses Digest 1921, § 1826. It did no business and had
no office, officer or agent elsewhere in the State. Stuttgart is in Arkansas County and is its county seat.
The action was brought in Saline County, Arkansas,
service of the summons being made on the defendant's
designated agent at Stuttgart. The plaintiff obtained a
judgment, which the Supreme Court of the State affirmed,
169 Ark. 748; and the defendant brought the case here
on writ of error.
The Arkansas statutes require actions of this character,
if against a domestic corporation, to be brought in a
county where it has a place of business or in which its
chief officer resides, and, if against a natural person, in

492

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

a county where he resides or may be found; but they
broadly permit such actions, if against a foreign corporation, to be brought in any county in the State. Crawford
& Moses Digest 1921, §§ 1152, 1171, 1176, 1829; Jacks
v. Central Coal and Coke Co., 156 Ark. 211.
Another statute (§ 1174) permits both foreign corporations and persons residing out of the State to be sued
in any county in which they have property, or debts
owing to them. Attachment and garnishment proceedings and some others may be had under it. But it
concededly is without application here and may be put
aside. The defendant neither had any property nor
owned any debts in the county where it was sued.
By a timely motion to dismiss, the defendant objected
to being sued in Saline County and assailed the validity
of the statutes, in so far as they permit a foreign corporation to be sued in a county where it does no business and
has no office, officer, or agent, on the ground that they
are unreasonably discriminatory and arbitrary, and therefore in conflict with the equal protection clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States. The court of first instance upheld the validity
of the statutes and accordingly overruled the motion;
and the Supreme Court approved that ruling.
Thus the statutes were applied as permitting the
defendant, a foreign corporation doing business in one
county, to be sued in another county, where it did no
business and had no office, officer or agent, on a cause
of action which arose in the former. Other counties
lay between the two, making the distance from the defendant's place of business to the place of suit 75 miles
by railroad and a few miles less by public roads. This
of course tended to increase materially the burden otherwise incident to presenting a defense.
It is conceded that the statutes neither permit a
domestic corporation to be sued in a county in which it

POWER CO. v. SAUNDERS.
490

Opinion of the Court.

does no business and has no office, officer or agent, nor
permit a natural person to be sued in a county in which
he does not reside and is not found. On the contrary,
they confine the admissible venue as to both to counties
in which the defendant is present in one of the ways just
indicated. But a foreign corporation is differently
treated. If it be present in a single county, as by having
a place of business there, it is made subject to suit not
merely in that county, but in any of the 74 other counties although it be not present in them in any sense.
We think it very plain that the statutes discriminate
against foreign corporations and in favor of domestic
corporations and individuals, and that the discrimination
is not theoretical merely, but real and substantial.
The clause in the Fourteenth Amendment forbidding
a State to deny to any person within its jurisdiction the
equal protection of the laws is a pledge of the protection
of equal laws, Truax v. Corrigan, 257 U. S. 312, 333;
Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Vosburg, 238
U. S. 56, 59, and extends as well to corporate as to natural persons, Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466, 522; Gulf,
Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150, 154;
Santa Clara County v. Southern Pacific R. R. Co., 118
U. S. 394, 396. It does not prevent a State from adjusting its legislation to differences in situation or forbid
classification in that connection; but it does require that
the classification be not arbitrary but based on a real and
substantial difference having a reasonable relation to the
subject of the particular legislation. Truax v. Corrigan,
supra,p. 337; Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Ellis,
supra, 155; Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220
U. S. 61, 78; Ft. Smith Light & Power Co. v. Board of
Improvement, ante, p. 387.
No doubt there are subjects as to which corporations
admissibly may be classified separately from individuals
and accorded different treatment, and also subjects as to

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

which foreign corporations may be classified separately
from both individuals and domestic corporations and
dealt with differently. But there are other subjects as
to which such a course is not admissible, the distinguishing principle being that classification must rest on differences pertinent to the subject in respect of which the
classification is made.
Here the separate classification of foreign corporations
is in respect of the venue or place of bringing transitory
actions. The statutes mean foreign corporations doing
business within the State by her permission, and therefore having a fixed place of business therein and a resident agent on whom process may be served. We speak
only of them. So far as their situation has any pertinence to the venue of transitory actions it is not distinguishable from that of domestic corporations and individuals. Certainly there is no substantial difference.
The opinion of the state court does not point to any relevant distinction, nor have counsel suggested any. Of
course the restricted venue as to domestic corporations
and individuals is prompted by considerations of convenience and economy; but these considerations have equal
application to foreign corporations. So far as the plaintiffs in such actions are affected, it is apparent that there
is no more reason for a statewide venue when the action
is against a foreign corporation than when it is against
a domestic corporation or a natural person. So we conclude that the special classification and discriminatory
treatment of foreign corporations are without reasonable
basis and essentially arbitrary.
The state court put its decision on the ground that
venue is a question of procedure which the State may
determine; and counsel for plaintiff advance the further
ground that the defendant impliedly asented to the
venue provisions by seeking and obtaining permission to
do business within the State, the provisions being then

POWER CO. v. SAUNDERS.
490

495

Opinion of the Court.

on the statute book. But neither ground can be
sustained.
It of course rests with the State to prescribe the venue
of actions brought in her courts. But the exercise of this
power, as of all others, must be in keeping with the limitations which the Constitution of the United States
places on state action. Procedural statutes are not excepted, but must fall like others when in conflict with
those limitations. This is illustrated in a recent case
where a statute of Arizona forbidding the granting of injunctions in certain situations was held to be in conflict
with the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment and invalid, notwithstanding a contention
that it was merely a procedural provision excluding a
particular remedy in equity but leaving remedies at law
open, Truax v. Corrigan, supra, pp. 322, 330. Further
illustration is found in a still later case where a Wisconsin statute subjecting foreign corporations to a burdensome procedural requirement not laid on other litigants
was pronounced invalid under the same constitutional
provision, Kentucky Finance Corporation v. Paramount
Auto Exchange Corporation, 262 U. S. 544. And on
turning to state decisions we find direct rulings that venue
provisions must conform to the equal protection clause
and are invalid where they discriminate arbitrarily against
either individuals or corporations, Grocers' Fruit Growing
Union v. Kern County Land Co., 150 Cal. 466, 474-475;
McClung v. Pulitizer Publishing Co., 279 Mo. 370.
The case of CincinnatiStreet Ry. Co. v. Snell, 193 U. S.
30, is cited as if venue provisions were there held to be
beyond the reach of the equal protection clause. But this
is a strained and inadmissible interpretation. That was
an action by an individual against a corporation which
was begun, conformably to a general statutory requirement, in the county where the defendant had its principal office and was engaged in business. Another stat-

496

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

ute authorized the court to change the venue in such an
action "to the adjacent county most convenient to both
parties" if it appeared that the corporation had more
than fifty local stockholders, and if it was also shown by
the affidavit of the other party, supported by five credible
citizens, that he could not have a fair and impartial trial
in the county where the suit was begun. A showing
was made.which brought the case within the statute;
and the court changed the venue over the defendant's
objection that the statute operated unequally and was
invalid in that it permitted the other party but not
the corporation to secure the change. ' The statute doubtless proceeded on the assumption, first, that a corporation with many local stockholders might have such
influence in the county that the other party would be
at a serious disadvantage, unless provision were made
whereby the court, on an adequate showing, might change
the place of trial to another county free from such influence and as convenient as might be to both parties,
and, secondly, that the corporation was not likely to suffer any prejudice in its home county through having
many stockholders there. At all events the difference in
the situation of the parties and the relation of that difference to the matter of changing the place of trial were
such that it could not be said of such discrimination as
was shown in the statute that it was without a reasonable
and adequate basis. The opinion affirmatively shows
that the defendant was not objecting to the place designated by the court for the trial, but only that the statute
did not accord it an equal opportunity to secure a change
from the county where the action was begun. When the
opinion is examined with the actual situation in mind it
has little bearing on the case now before us.
The contention advanced by counsel for the plaintiff
that the defendant impliedly assented to the venue pro-

POWER CO. v. SAUNDERS.
490

HoLmES and BRANDEIs, JJ., dissenting.

visions is answered and refuted by repeated decisions
holding that a foreign corporation by seeking and obtaining permission to do business in a State does not
thereby become obligated to comply with or estopped
from objecting to any provision in the state statutes which
is in conflict with the Constitution of the United States.
The principal cases axe cited and reviewed in HanoverInsurance Co. v. Harding, 272 U. S. 494, 507, et seq., and
Frost Trucking Co. v. Railroad Commission of California,
271 U. S. 583, 594, et seq. To them may be added the
case of W. W. Cargill Co. v. Minnesota, 180 U. S. 452,
468, vihere it was held that "the acceptance of a license,
in whatever form, will not impose upon tle licensee an
obligation to respect or to comply with any provisions'
of the statute . . . that are repugnant to the Constitution of the United States."
We accordingly reach the conclusion that the defendant's objection before stated to the validity of the venue
provisions was well taken and should have been sustained
under the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUsTICE HOLmES,

dissenting.

In order to enter into most of the relations of life people have to give up some of their Constitutional rights.
If a man makes a contract he gives up the Constitutional
right that previously he had to be free from the hamper
that he puts upon himself. Some rights, no doubt, a
person is not allowed to renounce, but very many he may.
So we must go further than merely to point to the Fourteenth Amendment. I see nothing in it to prevent a
foreign corporation agreeing with the State that it will
be subject to the general law of torts and will submit to
a transitory action wherever it may be sued. That the
55-5W"°-28---32

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
HOLMES

and

BRANDEIS,

JJ., dissenting.

274 U. S.

venue for suits against domestic corporations is limited
by statute seems to me not enough to invalidate its assent.
Every contract is the acceptance of some inequality-and
under our decisions I think it cannot be denied that the
plaintiff in error did contract. Pennsylvani Fire Insurance Co. v. Gold Issue Mining & Milling Co., 243 U. S.
93, 96. The jurisdiction of the Court would have been
unquestionable if it had not been objected to, and I do
not see why consent could not be manifested by contract
as well as by silence. While we adhere to the rule that a
State may exclude foreign corporations altogether it
seems to me a mistake to apply the inequality clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment with meticulous nicety. The
Amendment has been held not to overthrow ancient practices even when hard to reconcile with justice. I think
there are stronger "grounds for not reducing the power of
the States to attach conditions to a consent that they
have a right to refuse, when there is no attempt to use
the conditions to invade forbidden fields.
Apart from the contract of the corporation there seems
to me a ground for discrimination that ought to be respected when it has satisfied the State. A statute has to
be drawn with reference to what is usual and probable.
A foreign corporation merely doing business in the State
and having its works elsewhere will be more or less inconvenienced by being sued anywhere away from its headquarters, but the difference to it between one county and
another is likely to be less than it will be to a corporation
having its headquarters in the State. So I repeat that in
my opinion the plaintiff in error cannot complain if the
State holds it liable to a transitory action wherever it may
be served and sued, as it would have been liable at common law.
MR. JusTicE BRANDEIS concurs

in this opinion.

