284

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
274 U. S.

Syllabus.

sibility, and should be construed according to the probable understanding of men who accept such offices, we
conclude that ยง 940 prescribed the petitioners' responsibility, and the jury should have been charged accordingly.
It was necessary to show causal connection between the
loss and the alleged negligence or disregard of regulations.

We accept the ruling by the Circuit Court of Appeals
as to the disputed items of costs taxed against petitioners by the trial court, except as to charges by witnesses
for travel outside the district. That item should be
eliminated.
Reversed.
HOPE NATURAL GAS COMPANY v. HALL, STATE

TAX COMMISSIONER,

ET AL.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF WEST VIRGINIA.

NQ. 815.

Argued April 21, 1927.-Decided May 16, 1927.

1. A state court's construction of a state statute is to be gathered
from the application made of it as shown by the final decree in
connection with the opinion rather than by excerpts selected from
the opinion. P. 288.
2. West Virginia "annual privilege tax" on the business of producing
natural gas in the State, computed on the value of tte gas produced
"as shown by the gross proceeds derived from the sale thereof by
the producer '-the measure of the tax being otherwise stated as
"the value of the entire production in this State, regardless of the
place of sale, or the fact that deliveries may be made to points
outside the State,"-is not unconstitutional as respects gas transported to and sold in other States, since it is construed as requiring
the tax to be computed on the value of the gas at the well, before
it enters interstate commerce, which is valid. P. 288.
3. The contention that the tax violates due process by taxing gross
receipts from interstate commerce beyond the jurisdiction of the
State, therefore, is without basis. P. 288.

HOPE GAS CO. v. HALL.
284

Opinion of the Court.

4. The exemption from gross proceeds of $10,000, allowed by the
statute in all cases, does not violate the Equal Protection Clause.
P. 289.
102 W. Va. 272, affirmed.

ERROR to a decree of the Supreme Court of Appeals of
West Virginia, which reversed a decree enjoining Hall,
Tax Commissioner, and Lee, Attorney General, from
enforcing against the plaintiff, Hope Natural Gas Company, the taxing act discussed in the opinion.
Mr. John W. Davis, with whom Messrs. H. D. Rummel,
Arthur E. Young, Charles Powell, Kemble White, Anthony F. McCue, S. E. W. Burnside, and Edward M. Borger were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Fred 0. Blue, with whom Messrs. Howard B. Lee,
Attorney General of West Virginia, and T. C. Townsend
were on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This writ brings up a decree by the Supreme Court of
Appeals, West Virginia, which construed ยง 2-a, c. 1, Acts
of the Legislature, Extraordinary Session 1925,* and sus* An Act to provide for the raising of additional public revenue by
a tax upon the privilege of engaging in certain occupations; to provide for the ascertainment, assessment, and collection of such tax;
to provide penalties for violations of the terms hereof; and to
repeal certain statutes, [passed by the Legislature of West Virginia
June 5, 1925].
Sec. 2. That from and after the thirtieth day of June, one thousand
nine hundred twenty-five, there is hereby levied and shall be
collected annual privilege taxes against the persons, on account of
the business activities, and in the amounts to be determined by the
application of rates against values or gross income, as the case may,
as follows:
Sec. 2-a. Upon every person engaging or continuing within this
state in the business of mining and producing for sale, profit, or use,

286

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

tained it against objections based upon ยง 8, Art. I, Federal Constitution and the Fourteenth Amendment. The
grounds relied upon for reversal are without merit and
the decree must be affirmed.
The original proceeding challenged the validity
of the
tax prescribed by ยง 2-a and sought an injunction to prevent defendant State officers from attempting to enforce
it. The chief objection rested upon the direction of the
statute that, "The measure of this tax is the value of
the entire production in this State, regardless of the place
of sale or the fact that deliveries may be made to points
outside the State." The trial court held that the tax
would substantially burden and interfere with interstate
commerce and ordered an appropriate injunction.
In an opinion, 102 W. Va. 272, indicating very definite
purpose to follow rulings here, the court below, as shown
by the authoritative head note, declared: "Under Section
any coal, oil, natural gas, limestone, sand or other mineral product,
or felling and producing timber for sale, profit, or use, the amounts
of such tax to be equal to the value of. the articles produced as
shown by the gross proceeds derived from the sale thereof by the
producer (except as hereinafter provided), multiplied by the respective rates as follows: coal, forty-two one-hundredths of one per
cent.; oil, one per cent.; natural gas, one and seventeen-twentieths
of one per cent.; limestone, sand or other mineral product, ninetwentieths of one per cent. The measure of this tax is the value of
the entire production in this state, regardless of the place of sale
or the fact that deliveries may be made to points outside the state.
Sec. 2-h. In computing the amount of tax levied hereunder, however, for any year, there shall be deducted from the values, or from
the gross income of the business, as the case may be, an exemption
of ten thousand dollars of the amount of such values or gross income.
Every person exercising any privilege taxable hereunder for any
fractional part of a tax year shall be entitled to an exemption of
that part of the sum of ten thousand dollars which bears the same
proportion of the total sum that the period of time during which
such person is engaged in such business bears to a whole year.

ROPE GAS CO. v. HALL.
284

287

Opinion of the Court.

2a, Chapter 1, supra, the State may take into consideration the gross proceeds of a commodity produced in this
State and sold in another State, but only for the purpose
of determining the value of such commodity within the
State and before it enters interstate commerce." And
among other things it there said"If the taxation value of the products named in the
statute be limited to their value in the State, and before
they enter interstate commerce, the statute does not
manifest a purpose to violate Art. I of the Federal Constitution, and we so hold." "We therefore hold, under
the facts in this case, that the defendants may not treat
the gross proceeds of plaintiff's sales outside the State as
the worth of its gas within the State, but that they may
enforce the Act upon the value thereof within the State,
and before it enters interstatecommerce. The injunction
herein will be accordingly so modified."
The final order directed: "That the decree of the Circuit Court of Kanawha County, pronounced in this cause
on the 25th day of May, 1926, in so far and in so far
only as it enjoins the defendants from enforcing against
.
by
the plaintiff the provisions of See. 2-a of
imposing a tax upon the natural gas produced by the
plaintiff, based upon the value thereof within the State
and before it enters interstate commerce, be and the
same hereby is modified and corrected so as to permit
defendants to impose and enforce against the plaintiff a
tax, under said section, upon the natural gas so produced
by it, based upon the value thereof within the State and
before it enters upon interstate commerce, and that in
all other respects said decree as hereby modified and
corrected be and the same hereby is affirmed."
The chief business of plaintiff in error is production and
purchase of natural gas in West Virginia and the continuous and uninterrupted transportation of this through pipe
lines into Pennsylvania and Ohio, where it is sold, deliv-

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

ered and consumed. The corporation owns three thousand, one hundred and seventy-eight producing wells
located in twenty-five counties of West Virginia, from
which it took in the year ending June 30, 1925, more than
twenty-three billion cubic feet of gas. And during the
same period it purchased from other producers more than
twenty-five billion cubic feet. Most of this passed into
interstate commerce by continuous movement from the
wells.
Here it has been argued that the challenged Act burdens interstate commerce and therefore conflicts with
Section 8, Article I, of the federal Constitution. Also,
that to enforce the Act would deprive plaintiff in error
of property without due process of law and deny equal
protection of the laws.
Counsel admit that without violating the commerce
clause the State may lay a privilege or occupation tax

upon producers of natural gas reckoned according to the
value of that commodity at the well. American Mfg. Co.
v. St. Louis, 250 U. S. 459; Heisler v. Thomas Colliery
Co., 260 U. S. 245; Oliver Iron Co. v. Lord, 262 U. S. 172.
But they insist that, accepting the statute under consideration as construed by the highest court of the State,
plaintiff in error will be subjected to an unlawful direct
tax upon gross receipts derived from interstate commerce.
This argument rests chiefly upon certain language excerpted from the opinion below. But we review the final
decree and must accept the statute as authoritatively construed and applied. The plain result of the opinion and
final decree is to require that the tax be computed upon
the value of the gas at the well, and not otherwise. If,
hereafter, executive officers disregard the approved construction and fix values upon any improper basis appropriate relief may be obtained through the courts.
The suggestion concerning deprivation of due process
goes upon the assumption that the imposition is upon

