434

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

274 U. S.

operation of the prescription of one year provided by
the Louisiana Workman's Compensation Act. Messel's
attack upon the Workman's Compensation Act as unconstitutional under the constitution of Louisiana was entirely irrelevant and should be rejected as surplusage.
As Messel has resorted to the state court, and there is
nothing to prevent his recovery in the state court except
the Workman's Compensation Act, which is inapplicable
to his case in view of our decisions, the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Louisiana must be reversed and the
case remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
The principles applicable to Messel's recovery, should
he have one, must be limited to those which the admiralty
law of the United States prescribes, including the applicable section of the Federal Employers Liability Act,
incorporated in the maritime law by § 33, c. 250, 41 Stat.
988, 1007. Robins Dry Dock & Repair Company v. Dahl,
266 U. S. 449; Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Co. v. Kierejewski, 261 U. S. 479, 480; Knickerbocker Ice Ca. v.
Stewart, 253 U. S. 149; The Osceola, 189 U. S. 158;
Panama R. R. Co. v. Johnson, 264 U. S. 375; Baltimore
S. S. Co. v. Phillips, ante, p. 316; Engel v. Davenport,
271 U. S. 33; Panama R. R. Co. v. Vasquez, 271 U. S.
557.
Judgment reversed.
RHEA v. SMITH.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MISSOURI.

No. 199.

Submitted March 4, 1927.-Decided May 31, 1927.

1. In the absence of a state law providing conformity between liens
of judgments of the federal District Court and of judgments of

the state courts of general jurisdiction of the first instance, as
contemplated by the Act of Congress of August 1, 1888, a judgment of the federal District Court is a lien on all lands of the judgment debtor within that court's territorial jurisdiction. P. 441.

RHEA v. SMITH.
434

Opinion of the Court.

2. A Missouri statute by which the judgment of a state circuit,
county, or probate court is a lien upon the real estate of the
judgment debtor in the county for which the court is held, but
by which a judgment of the federal District Court is a lien on
property in the county in which it is rendered only if a transcript
thereof be filed in the office of the clerk of the state circuit court,
does not comply with the Act of Congress of August 1, 1888, supra,
even though the lien of the federal judgment, upon the filing of
the transcript, relate back to the date of rendition, and notwithstanding that the condition as to filing transcripts applies also to
the judgments of the supreme and other appellate courts of the
State. PP. 441, 444.
308 Mo. 422, reversed.

CERTioRARi (269 U. S. 544) to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri, which affirmed a judgment in
favor of Smith, defendant in a suit brought by Rhea to
determine title and in ejectment, concerning land which
Rhea claimed under sales made in execution of a money
judgment recovered in the federal court against a former
owner from whom Smith also claimed title through a conveyance made after that judgment but before the
execution sales.
Mr. Thomas Hackney for petitioner.
Mr. W. R. Robertson for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case involves the validity of a lien of a judgment
of the Federal District Court of the Western District of
Missouri, sitting at Joplin, upon land of the judgment
debtor in Jasper County in that district, of which Joplin is the county seat. It turns on the question whether
the law of Missouri providing for the registration, recording, docketing and indexing of judgments of the
United States district courts for the purpose of making
them liens upon land in that State, conforms to the provisions of the state law upon the same subject in refer-

436

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

ence to liens of judgments of the courts of record of the
State. If it does, the lien and the title of the petitioner
fail, and the judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri
must be affirmed. If not, then the case must be reversed.
The suit herein was brought in Jasper County by William A. Rhea, in one count, to determine title to certain
real estate in that county, and in another by ejectment
to recover its possession. There was a judgment for the
defendant in the trial court, and Rhea appealed. The
facts were as follows:
Blanche H. Whitlock was the common source of title
of the plaintiff and the defendant, and in 1921 owned the
property in dispute. As plaintiff, she had brought a suit
in the United States District Court for the Southern
Division of the Western District of Missouri, at Joplin,
in Jasper County. On January 10, 1921, the suit was
dismissed and the costs of the case were adjudged against
her in the sum of $8,890.20. On April 5, 1921, she conveyed the property in dispute to the defendant, Thomas
C. Smith, for a consideration of $5,000. On July 22,
1921, execution was issued upon the judgment in the
federal court, and under it the marshal sold part of the
land and conveyed it by his deed to the plaintiff Rhea
for $200. In December, 1921, another execution was
issued under which the marshal sold and conveyed to
Rhea the remainder of the land in dispute for $25. The
contention of Rhea is that the judgment of the Federal
court is a lien on the real estate from its rendition, that
he acquired title to the fee through the execution sales,
and that it was superior to any title acquired by subsequent conveyance of the judgment debtor. Smith, the
respondent, contended that in the absence of a transcript
of the judgment of the federal court filed in the office of
the Clerk of the Circuit Court of Jasper County as required by the Missouri law, the judgment was not a lien,
and the conveyance to Smith, the respondent, by the

RHEA v. SMITH.
434

Opinion of the Court.

judgment debtor was free from its encumbrance. The
case was appealed to the Supreme Court of Missouri and
heard by the Second Division. One of the judges having
been absent and the two judges constituting the division
differing in opinion, the case was heard en bane, and a
majority of the court affirmed the judgment below, two
of the judges dissenting.
In Wayman v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 1, 22, this Court
said through Chief Justice Marshall, referring to the effect of the last clause of § 8 of Art. I of the Constitution,
authorizing Congress to make laws necessary and proper
for carrying into execution powers vested in any department of the Government:
"That a power to make laws for carrying into execution all the judgments which the judicial department has
power to pronounce, is expressly conferred by this clause,
seems to be one of those plain propositions which reasoning cannot render plainer. The terms of the clause
neither require nor admit of elucidation. The Court,
therefore, will only say, that no doubt whatever is entertained, on the power of Congress over the subject."
By § 37 of the Process Act of May 19, 1828, c. 68, 4
Stat. 278, 281, writs of execution and other final process
issued on judgments and decrees, rendered in any of the
courts of the United States, were to be the same as those
used in the courts of the State, provided, that it should
be in the power of the courts, if they saw fit in their discretion, by rules of court, so far to alter final process in
said courts as to conform the same to any change which
might be adopted by the legislatures of the respective
States for the state courts.
The effect of this statute was considered in MassingiZl
v. Downs, 7 How. 760, in which the question was of the
validity of a lien of a judgment obtained in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Mississippi
in 1839. In 1841 the State of Mississippi had passed a

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

law requiring judgments to be recorded in a particular
way in order to make them a lien upon property. It
was held that the statute did not abrogate the lien which
had been acquired under the judgment of 1839, although
the latter had not been recorded in the manner required
by the State. Mr. Justice McLean, speaking for the
Court, said:
"In those States where the judgment on the execution
of a State court creates a lien only within the county in
which the judgment is entered, it has not been doubted
that a similar proceeding in the Circuit Court of the
United States would create a lien to the extent of its
jurisdiction. This has- been the practical construction of
the power of the courts of the United States, whether the
lien was held to be created by the issuing of process or by
express statute. Any other construction would materially affect, and in some degree subvert, the judicial
power of the Union. It would place suitors in the State
courts in a much better condition than in the federal
courts."
It was held, therefore, in that case that the plaintiffs in
the judgment had acquired a right under the authority
of the United States and that that right could not be affected by subsequent act of the State. This principle was'
affirmed in Brown v. Pierce, 7 Wall. 205, and Williams v.
Benedict, 8 How. 107.
Such was the state of the law until the passage of the
Act of August 1, 1888, c. 729, 25 Stat. 357, which was the
first formal act to regulate fully the liens of judgments and
decrees of the courts of the United States. The whole
Act was as follows:
"An act to regulate the liens of judgments and decrees
of the courts of the United States.
"Be it enacted by the Senate andHouse of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That judgments and decrees rendered in a circuit

RHEA v. SMITH.
434

Opinion of the Court.

or district court of the United States within any State,
shall be liens on property throughout such State in the

same manner and to the same extent and under the same
conditions only as if such judgments and decrees had
been rendered by a court of general jurisdiction of such
State: Provided, That whenever the laws of any State
require a judgment or decree of a State court to be registered, recorded, docketed, indexed, or any other thing to
be done, in a particular manner, or in a certain office or
county, or parish in the State of Louisiana before a lien
shall attach, this act shall be applicable therein whenever
and only whenever the laws of such State shall authorize
the judgments and decrees of the United States courts
to be registered, recorded, docketed, indexed, or otherwise
conformed to the rules and requirements relating to the
judgments and decrees of the courts of the State.
"See. 2. That the clerks of the several courts of the
United States shall prepare and keep in their respective
offices complete and convenient indices and cross-indices
of the judgment records of said courts, and such indices
and records shall at all times be open to the inspection
and examination of the public.
"Sec. 3. Nothing herein shall be construed to require
the docketing of a judgment or decree of a United States
court, or the filing of a transcript thereof, in any State
office within the same county or parish in the State of
Louisiana in which the judgment or decree is rendered,
in order that such judgment or decree may be a lien on
any property within such county."
The third section was amended by the Act of March
2, 1895, c. 180, 28 Stat. 813, to read as follows:
"Nothing herein shall be construed to require the docketing of a judgment or decree of a United States court,
or the filing of a transcript thereof, in any State office
within the same county or the same parish in the State
of Louisiana in which the judgment or decree is rendered,

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

in order that such judgment or decree may be a lien on
any property within such county, if the clerk of the
United States court be required by law to have a permanent office and a judgment record open at all times for

public inspection in such county or parish."
By the Act of August 23, 1916, the amending act of
1895 was repealed, c. 397, 39 Stat. 531.
The legislation of Missouri (Mo. Rev. Statutes 1919)
adopted in an effort to comply with the requirement of
§ 1 of the Congressional act of 1888 was as follows:
"Sec. 1554. Lien of judgment in Supreme Court,
Courts of Appeals, and Federal Courts in This State.Judgments and decrees obtained in the supreme court,
in any United States district or circuit court held within
this state, in the Kansas City court of appeals, or the St.
Louis court of appeals, shall, upon the filing of a transcript thereof in the office of the clerk of any circuit court,
be a lien on the real estate of the person against whom
such judgment or decree is rendered, situate in the county
in which such transcript is filed.
"Sec. 1555. Lien in Courts of Record, Generally.Judgments and decrees rendered by any court of record
shall be a lien on the real estate of the person against
whom they are rendered, situate in the county for which
the court is held.
"Sec. 1556. The Commencement, Extent, and Duration of Lien.--The lien of a judgment or decree shall
extend as well to the real estate acquired after the rendition thereof as to that which was owned when the
judgment or decree was rendered. Such liens shall commence on the day of the rendition of the judgment, and
shall continue for three years, subject to be revived as
hereinafter provided; but when two or more judgments
or decrees are rendered at the same term, as between the
parties entitled to such judgments or decrees, the lien

RHEA v. SMITH.
434

Opinion of the Court.

shall commence on the last day of the term at which they
are rendered."
It is clear that Congress by the first section of the Act
of August 1, 1888, quoted above, intended to change and
limit the existing rule, as stated by this Court, through
Justice McLan, in Massingill v. Jones, supra, that federal court judgments were a lien upon lands throughout
the territorial jurisdictions of the respective federal
courts, but intended to do this only in those States which
passed laws making the conditions of creation, scope and
territorial application of the liens of federal court judgments the same as state court judgments, so that where
any State has not passed such laws, the rule that federal
judgments are liens throughout the territorial jurisdiction of such courts must still be in force. Dartmouth
Savings Bank v. Bates, 44 Fed. 546; Shrew v. Jones,
2 McLean 78-Fed. Cases No. 12818, 22 Fed. Cases 40.
The Missouri Statutes prescribe that judgments rendered by any state court of record shall be a lien on the
real estate of the person against whom they are rendered,
situate in the county for which the court is held, and the
lien shall commence on the day of the rendition of the
judgment and shall continue for three years. They further provide that judgments obtained in the Supreme
Court of the State, in any federal court held within the
State, and in the Court of Appeals of either Kansas City
or St. Louis, shall, upon the filing of a transcript in the
office of the clerk of any circuit court, be a -lien on the
real estate of the person against whom such judgment
or decree is rendered, situate in the county in which such
transcript is filed.
It is very clear from this recital that a judgment of
the federal court upon lands in the county in which
it sits, if we give effect to the state statute, can not
be a lien unless a transcript of the judgment shall be

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 I. S.

made and filed in the office of the clerk of the circuit
court of the State in that county, whereas no such transcript of a judgment in the state circuit court is required
to create a lien for its judgment, but the lien takes effect
the minute that it is entered on its record. Not only is
this true with respect to the state circuit 'Court of the
county, a court of general jurisdiction, but it is also true
of judgments in the county court and in the probate
court of that county, which are courts of record.
The majority opinion of the state Supreme Court in
this case expresses the view that the difference is of so
slight a character that it ought not to be regarded as a
failure to conform to the federal statute. The opinion
further points out that judgments of the Supreme Court
of the State and of the courts of appeals of St. Louis
and Kansas City can only become a lien upon the real
estate of a judgment defendant in a particular county
upon the filing of a transcript of them in the clerk's office
of the circuit court where the land lies. Thus, it is said,
the United States District and Circuit Courts are put
on the same basis as these appellate state courts having
like the Federal District Court a larger jurisdiction than
a county.
It is obvious, however, that the District Court of the
United States is a court of first instance of general
jurisdiction, just as the circuit courts of the various
counties in Missouri are courts of general jurisdiction of
the first instance. The conformity required should obtain
as between them, and not as between the federal court
and the state appellate courts.
We are dealing here with a question necessarily of great
nicety in determining the effect and the priority of liens
upon real estate, and the subject requires exactness.
Merely approximate conformity with reference to such
a subject matter will not do, especially where complete
conformity is entirely possible. The Supreme Court of

RHEA v. SMITH.

434

Opinion of the Court.

Missouri in its opinion says it would take but a short
time and very little trouble to transcribe a judgment of
the federal court sitting in a county seat and to file it
in the office of the clerk of the state circuit court in the
same place, on the day of its rendition, and thus put it
on par with the lien of any judgment of the state circuit
court rendered on the same day. It may be that the
transcript of the judgment if properly filed, even if the
transcribing be delayed, as in usual course it is likely to
be for several days, would not prejudice the holder of a
judgment in the federal court, because its lien would date
from its rendition in the federal court. The risk to be
run, however, is in the danger that the agent or attorney
of a judgment creditor in the federal court may forget
to have the judgment transcribed and filed in the clerk's
office of the circuit court of the county. Such forgetfulness by those charged with the duty is a factor to be
considered, and makes a real difference between the provision for the lien of the federal court judgment and the
instant attaching of a lien upon the entry of the state
court judgment without further action.
Reference is made by the state Supreme Court to Re
Jackson Light and Traction Company v. Newton, 269
Fed. 223, a decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals of the
Fifth Circuit concerning a judgment rendered in Mississippi, holding that the required conformity was furnished
by the state statute. The statute required the enrollment
of a judgment in the state court of general jurisdiction
in order that it might become a lien upon the property in
the county of its jurisdiction, only if enrolled twenty days
after the term of entry of the judgment. The judgments
of the federal court, the state Supreme Court and the
chancery courts also became liens from the time they were
enrolled in the county where the land lay. We think that
case may well be distinguished from this one because
necessity of enrollment was exacted as to every court.

444

OCTOBER TERM, 192G.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

The majority opinion of the Supreme Court of Missouri further dwells upon a significance thought to attach
to the purpose of Congress in repealing § 3 of the statute
of 1888, as amended by the statute of 1895. That section, thus amended, specifically forbade any state statute
seeking conformity to require the docketing of a judgment
or decree of a federal court, or the filing of a transcript
thereof in any state office within the same county in which
the federal judgment or decree was rendered, in order to
be a lien on the property in that county, if the clerk of
the federal court had a permanent office and a judgment
record open at all times for public inspection in such
county. It is said that the repeal of that section indicates
Congress's intention to permit the requirement in the
state statute that there should be some additional record
in the state court, in the county where the federal court
sits, of the federal judgment, without destroying the required conformity. Even if this be conceded, it does not
show that in order to secure conformity, there must not be
a similar requirement for a formal record in the state
court of the county of its judgment to create a lien. It
is the inequality which permits a lien instantly to attach
to the rendition of the judgment, without more, in the
state court which does not so attach in the federal court
in that same county that prevents compliance with the requirement of § 1 of the Act of 1888. In the Mississippi
case, above referred to, there was the same formality of
enrollment within twenty days after the judgment in order to secure a lien in both the state court and the federal court in the county where both sat.
We think that the three sections, 1555, 1556 and 1554,
do not secure the needed conformity in the creation, extent and operation of the resulting liens upon land as between federal and state court judgments. The lien of
federal court judgments in Missouri therefore attaches to

