OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

274 U. S.

receivership proceedings in the proper time. It does not
appear that it is not possible for the new company to
give him the benefit now of the offer which was made
by the Reorganization Committee to the other unsecured
creditors of the old company; nor that such a course
would be inequitable to others in interest. The ascertainment of the relevant facts and the precise form of
the relief must be left to the District Court. The decree
of the Circuit Court of Appeals is affirmed in so far as it
reversed the decree of the District Court dismissing the
intervening petition; and is reversed in so far as it directed that the judgment is a prior lien enforceable for
the full amount exclusive of counsel fees against the
property of the new company.
Decree affirmed in part, and reversed in part.

BALTIMORE STEAMSHIP COMPANY ET AL. V.
PHILLIPS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 271.

Argued April 18, 1927:-Decided May 16, 1927.

1. A judgment in an action for personal injuries, based on one
ground of negligence, bars a second action, for the same injuries,
based on another ground of negligence. P. 319.
2. A cause of action does not consist of facts, but of the violation
of a right which the facts show. The mere multiplication of
grounds of negligence alleged as causing the same injury does not
result in multiplying the causes of action. P. 321.
3. Therefore the plaintiff is bound to set forth in his first action for
damages every ground of negligence which he claims to have existed
and upon which he relies, and cannot be permitted, as was attempted here, to rely upon them by piecemeal in successive actions
to recover for the same wrong and injury. Distinguishing Troxell
v. Del. Lack. & West. R. R., 227 U. S. 434, where the ground of
negligence in the second action was not actionable under the state
law governing the first action. P. 321.

BALTIMORE S. S. CO. v. PHILLIPS.
316

Opinion of the Court.

4. By § 20 of the amended Merchant Marine Act, a seaman has a
right of action for personal injuries when due to negligence of
officers or employees of the ship as well as when resulting from
defects due to negligence, which he may prosecute (under the federal law) either in the state court or in the admiralty court; and
every ground of negligence open inthe former would be equally so
in the latter. P. 324.
5. A judgment merely voidable because based upon an erroneous
view of* the law is not open to collateral attack, but can be corrected only by a direct review and not by bringing another action
upon the same cause. -P. 325.
6. Plaintiff sued first in the court of admiralty, to recover damages
for a personal injury. Finding that the accident was not due to
the negligence alleged-viz., failure to provide a safe place to work,
unseaworthiness and insufficiency of gear, and incompetency of
officers employed on vessel-and being of the erroneous impression,
shared by counsel, that the negligence of officers or members of
the crew, found to be the cause, was not indemnifiable in admiralty,
the court gave judgment, on an alternative prayer, for cost of
maintenance and cure only. Held that the judgment was a bar to
a second action for the same injury, begun in a state court, alleging
negligence of the shipowners, their officers and employees in the
control and operation of the vessel and appliances.
9 F. (2d) 902, reversed.

CERTIORARI (270 U. S.638) to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals which affirmed a judgment for damages
in an action for personal injuries, begun in a state court
and removed to the federal court.
Mr. Arthur M. Boal, with whom Solicitor General
Mitchell, and Messrs. Chauncey G. Parker and Harold F.
Birnbaum were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. EdgarJ. Treacy for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The respondent, an infant 18 years of age; while employed on board a vessel operated by petitioners was injured by the fall of a strongback used to support a portion

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

of the hatch, and as a result suffered the amputation of a
leg. A libel was filed in.admiralty to recover damages in
the sum of $15,000 against the petitioners and the United
States in the federal district court for the district of Maryland. The libel alleged that the injury was caused by
negligence in failing to provide a safe place to work, and
to use reasonable care. to avoid striking respondent, and
by the unseaworthiness and insufficiency of the gear and
tackle employed on the vessel. Byan amendment, further specifications of negligence were added to the effect
that the United States had failed to provide a proper and
sufficient gear or socket to support the strongback, that
the officers of the vessel were incompetent, and that there
was owing to the injured person a special duty because of
his youth and inexperience. Libelant prayed that, if negligence should not be established, he have a decree for
wages, maintenance and cure. After a trial, the district
court held that upon the evidence the accident was not
due to the negligence alleged but to the grossly negligent
way in which dunnage was taken out of the hold, and
that under the decisions no recovery could be had for
damages upon that ground. By the decree libelant was
denied full indemnity by way of damages and awarded the
sum of $500 as the cost of maintenance and cure; and
this amount was paid and the decree satisfied. Phillipsv.
United States, 286 Fed. 631.
Subsequently, this action was brought in the Supreme
Court of the State of New York against the petitionersthe United States not being joined-and removed to the
federal district court for the eastern district of New York.
The complaint alleges negligence on the part of the petitioners and their officers and employees in the control and
operation of the vessel and appliances. The allegations
of fact as to the way in which the accident happened are
substantially the same in both cases. Petitioners answered in the present case, setting up, among other things,

BALTIMORE S. S. CO. v. PHILLIPS.
316

Opinion of the Court.

the decree in the admiralty case as res judicata; and by
stipulation of the parties this was argued before trial.
The district court at first sustained the plea, but, upon
reargument, set aside its order to that effect and held the
plea bad. A trial resulted in a verdict and judgment for
respondent. The court of appeals affirmed the judgment,
holding in respect of the plea of res judicata that the second action was based upon a different cause of action.
9 F. (2d) 902. And this presents the sole question for
consideration here.
The effect of a judgment or decree as res judicata depends upon whether the second action or suit is upon the
same or a different cause of action. If upon the same
cause of action, the judgment or decree upon the merits
in the first case is an absolute bar to the subsequent action
or suit between the same parties or those in privity with
them, not only in respect of every matter which was actually offered and received to sustain the demand, but
also as to every ground of recovery which might have
been presented. But if the second case be upon a different cause of action, the prior judgment or decree operates as an estoppel only as to matters actually in issue or
points controverted, upon the determination of which
the judgment or decree was rendered. Cromwell v.
County of Sac, 94 U. S. 351, 352-353; United States v.
Moser, 266 U. S. 236, 241. There is some confusion in
the decisions as to whether the present case should fall
within the first or the second branch of the rule, but we
are of opinion that the great weight of authority, both
in respect of the number of decisions and upon reason,
sustains the view that the facts here gave rise to a single
cause of action for damages and that the first branch of
the rule applies. In United States v. California& Ore.
Land Co., 192 U. S. 355, this court announced the general
rule to be that a judgment or decree upon the merits concludes the parties as to all media concludendi or grounds

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

for asserting the right, known when the suit was brought.
In that case a bill had been brought to have certain patents for land issued by the United States declared void
on the ground that the lands were within an Indian reservation and, therefore, reserved from the operation of the
grant. The land company pleaded in bar that the United
States had filed an earlier bill seeking the same relief and
that a final decree had been entered dismissing that bill.
The only thing which the court could find to distinguish
the two suits was that in the latter the United States had
put forward a new ground for its prayer, but in both cases
it sought to establish its own title to the fee. This court
sustained the plea in bar, saying, "But the whole tendency of our decisions is to require a plaintiff to try his
whole cause of action and his whole case at one time. He
cannot even split up his claim, Fetterv. Beale, 1 Salk. 11;
Trask v. Hartford & New Haven Railroad, 2 Allen, 331;
Freeman, Judgments, 4th ed., §§ 238, 241; and, a fortiori,
he cannot divide the grounds of recovery. Unless the
statute of 1889 put the former suit upon a peculiar footing, the United States was bound then to bring forward
all the grounds it had for declaring the patents void, and
when the bill was dismissed was barred as to all by the
decree." The same general doctrine is stated in Stark v.
Starr, 94 U. S. 477, 485, that "a party seeking to enforce
a claim, legal or equitable, must present to the court,
either by the pleadings or proofs, or both, all the grounds
upon which he expects a judgment in his favor. He is
not at liberty to split up his demand and prosecute it by
piecemeal, or present only a portion of the grounds upon
which special relief is sought, and leave the rest to be
presented in a second suit, if the first fail. There would
be no end to litigation if such a practice were permissible."
And see also, Werlein v. New Orleans, 177 U. S. 390, 398400.

BALTIMORE S. S. CO. v. PHILLIPS.
316

Opinion of the Court.

Here the court below concluded that the cause of action
set up in the second case was not the same as that alleged
in the first, because the grounds of negligence pleaded
were distinct and different in character, the ground alleged in the first case being the use of defective appliances and, in the second, the negligent operation of the
appliances by the officers and co-employees. Upon principle, it is perfectly plain that the respondent suffered
but one actionable wrong and was entitled to but one
recovery, whether his injury was due to one or the other
of several distinct acts of alleged negligence or to a combination of some or all of them. In either view, there
would be but a single wrongful invasion of a single primary right of the plaintiff, namely, the right of bodily
safety, whether the acts constituting such invasion were
one or many, simple or complex.
A cause of action does not consist of facts, but of the
unlawful violation of a right which the facts show. The
number and variety of the facts alleged do not establish
more than one cause of action so long as their result,
whether they be considered severally or in combination,
is the violation of but one right by a single legal wrong.
The mere multiplication of grounds of negligence alleged
as causing the same injury does not result in multiplying
the causes of action. "The facts are merely the means,
and not the end. They do not constitute the cause of
action, but they show its existence by making the wrong
appear. 'The thing, therefore, which in contemplation
of law as its cause, becomes a ground for action, is not
the group of facts alleged in the declaration, bill, or indictment, but the result of these in a legal wrong, the
existence of which, if true, they conclusively evince."'
Chobanianv. Washburn Wire Company, 33 R. I. 289, 302.
The injured respondent was bound to set forth in his
first action for damages every ground of negligence which
55514°--28----21

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

he claime-d fo exist and upon which he relied, and cannot be permitted, as was attempted here, to rely upon
them by piecemeal in successive actions to recover for the
same wrong and injury. Columb v. Webster Mfg. Co.,
84 F. 592; Cincinnati,A". 0. & T. P. Ry. Co. v. Gray, 101
F. 623, 631; Smith v. Missouri Pac. Ry. Co., 56 F. 458;
Payne v. N. Y. S. & W. R. R. Co., 201 N. Y. 436, 440;
Chobanianv. Washburn Wire Company, supra, pp. 300304; Senn v. Southern Ry. Co.,'135 Mo. 512, 519; Munro
v. Railroad, 155 Mo. App. 710, 727; Schweinfurth v.
Railway Co., 60 Oh. St. 215, 230-231; Berube v. Horton,
199 Mass. 421, 425-426. Many other cases are to the
same effect. - In the case last cited there was a declaration in an action for personal injuries containing a count
at common law alleging failure to provide a reasonably
safe place, and a count under the Employers Liability
Act alleging a defect in the ways, works, or machinery.
To this declaration, after the expiration of the period of
the statute of limitations, an amendment was allowed
alleging negligence of the defendant's superintendent as
the cause of the same accident. The Massachusetts Supreme Court held that the statute of limitations could
not be invoked because the amendment did not state a
new cause of action, but was simply another statement of
the same cause of action, that cause of action being "the
injury under the circumstances under which it took
place."
Respondent cites and relies upon The Roiph, 299 Fed.
52; but the case is not in point. There the first action
was for wages and maintenance alone. Here, in the first
action, negligence causing a personal injury, was distinctly alleged as the primary ground of recovery. The
claim for wages, maintenance and cure ywas purely dependent and contingent.
The judgment of the court lelow, as shown by its opinion:, ,was based, in the main if not entirely, upon Troxell

BALTIMORE S. S. CO. v. PHILLIPS.
816

Opinion of the Court.

v. Del., Lack. & West. R. R., 227 U. S. 434, which was
construed as holding "that it was one cause of action
not to furnish safe cars, and another to use safe cars carelessly." The opinion in that case is not to be read as
announcing any such general rule. If so, in the light of
the foregoing discussion, we now should feel obliged to
disaffirm it. But the decision rests upon another and
a narrow ground, and its authority must be confined accordingly. Mrs. Troxell as surviving widow prosecuted
an action against the railway company under a state
statute to recover for the death of her husband as the
result of a negligent failure to provide safe instrumentalities. After a judgment against her, she brought a
second action as administratrix under the federal Employers Liability Act, alleging as a ground of recovery
negligence of a fellow-servant. The first case was tried
and decided exclusively upon the state law, under which
law, as this court said, "there could be no recovery for
the negligence of the fellow-servants of the deceased,"
and, consequently, that ground, it was said, was not and
could not be involved in or concluded by the first action,-in other words, as matter of law recovery upon
that ground was not open to her in the first action. Obviously, if the court had been of opinion that a recovery
upon that ground of negligence could have been had in
the action prosecuted under the state law, the decision
would have sustained the view that there was but one
cause of action.
Whether the later decision in Wabash R. R. v. Hayes,
234 U. S. 86, 90, has rendered doubtful the soundness of
this conclusion even as thus narrowly limited (see Delaware, L. & W. R. Co. v. Yurkonis, 220 F. 429, 433), we
do not pause to consider. It is enough to say that here,
as we shall proceed to show, both actions were brought
under the same federal law, and the basis upon which
the Troxell decision rested is entirely lacking.

324

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

The injury to respondent occurred after the passage
of the amendment of § 20 of the Merchant Marine Act
by § 33, c. 250, 41 Stat. 988, 1007, which provides: "That
any seaman who shall suffer personal injury in the course
of his employment may, at his election, maintain an action for damages at law, with the right of trial by jury,
and in such action all statutes of the United States modifying or extending the common-law right or remedy in
cases of personal injury to railway employees shall apply;
"
That amendment incorporates into the maritime law the provisions of the federal Employers Liability Act, c. 149, 35 Stat. 65; and the effect by virtue of
§ 1 of that Act is to give a right of action for an injury
or death resulting in whole or in part from the negligence of any of the officers, agents, or employees of the
ship, as well as for an injury or death resulting from
defects due to negligence, etc., and irrespective of whether
the action is brought in admiralty or at law. Panama
R. R. Co. v. Johnson, 264 U. S. 375; Engel v. Davenport,
271 U. S. 33; Panama R. R. Co. v. Vasquez, 271 U. S.
557.
It follows that here both the libel and the subsequent
action were prosecuted under the maritime law, and every
ground of recovery, open to respondent in .the second
case, was equally open to him in the first. But evidently in the first proceeding both court and counsel misinterpreted the effect of § 33, and proceeded upon the
erroneous theory, that in admiralty the rule laid down
in The Osceola, 189 U. S. 158, 175,
"That the seaman is not allowed to recover an indemnity
for the negligence of the master, or any member of the
crew, but is entitled to maintenance and cure, whether
the injuries were received by negligence or accident,"
was still in force. Otherwise, it is quite apparent from
the language of the opinion that an amendment would

