GORIEB v. FOX.
597

Syllabus.

The intention to interfere with the state function of
regulating intrastate rates is not to be presumed. Where
there is a serious doubt whether an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission extends to intrastate rates,
the doubt should be resolved in favor of the state power.
If, as the Railroad believed, the federal commission intended to include the intrastate Arkansas rates within
its order, it should have taken action, through appropriate
application, to remove the doubt by securing an expression by that commission of the intention so to do. Compare American Express Co. v. South Dakota, 244 U. S.
617, 627; Illinois Cent. R. R. Co. v. Public Utilities Commission, 245 U. S. 493, 509-510.
In Virginian Ry. Co. v. United States, 272 U. S.
658, 675, and in Lawrence v. St. Louis-San Francisco
Ry. Co., supra, we called attention to the importance to
the parties, to the public and to this Court of supporting
the decree, in cases of this character, by an opinion which
shall state fully the reasons for setting aside a commission's order.
Reversed.

GORIEB v. FOX ET

AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF TE
STATE OF VIRGINIA.

No. 799. Submitted April 25, 1927.-Decided May 31, 1927.
1. Whether a provision of a city ordinance fixing a building line with
relation to the location of a specified percentage of existing houses
on the block is so vague in its general, or in some particular, applications as to amount to a denial of due process of law, is a
question which can not be considered in a case where, upon the
special facts, it was definite enough, and where the lot-owner had
been excepted from the provision by the city council. P. 605.

604

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

2. Reservation of authority in a city council to make exceptions, in
cases of exceptional hardship, from a regulation confining the con-

struction of buildings to a building line set back from the street,
does not violate the Equal Protection Clause. P. 607.
3. Arbitrary or unfair use of such authority is not to be presumed.
P. 607
4. State ordinances requiring lot owners, when constructing new buildings, to set them back a reasonable distance from the street lines of
their lots, may have substantial relation to the public safety, health,
morals, and general welfare, and, not being clearly arbitrary or
unreasonable, do not deprive the lot owners of their property without due process of law. Eubank v. Richmond, 226 U. S. 137,
distinguished. P. 608.
145 Va. 554, affirmed.

CERrioRARI (273 U. S. 687) to a judgment of the
Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia, which affimed a
judgment denying the petitioner a writ of mandamus
against the city council of Roanoke.
Messrs. W. V. Birchfield, Jr., and G. A. Wingfield were

on the brief for petitioner.
Mr. Robert C. Jackson was on the brief for respondents.
Mi. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
For the declared purpose of establishing building lines
and regulating and restricting the construction and location of buildings, and for other purposes, an ordinance of
Roanoke, Virginia, divides the city into " business" and
"residential" districts. Another ordinance, as amended
July 11, 1924, creates a set-back or building line, with relation to the street, to which all buildings subsequently
erected must conform. The line must be at least as far
from the street a§ that occupied by sixty per cent. of the
existing houses in the block, the word "block" being de-

GORIEB v. FOX.
603

Opinion of the Court.

fined to mean only that portion on the same side of the
street where the new building is proposed, bounded by the
nearest intersecting streets to the right and left thereof.
The city council by a proviso reserved to itself the authority to make exceptions and permit the erection of buildings
closer to the street.
Petitioner owns several building lots within the residential district upon one of which he has a dwelling
house. He applied to the city council for a permit to
erect a brick store building upon an adjoining lot, and,
after investigation, the council by resolution gave him
permission to erect a brick store thirty-four and twothirds feet back from the street line. He thereupon
sought by mandamus to compel the council to issue a permit to occupy the lot for his building up to the street line,
alleging the unconstitutionality of the set-back ordinance.
The judgment of the court of first instance was against
him, sustaining the validity of the ordinance and the action of the council. This judgment was affirmed by the
state supreme court, 145 Va. 554, which held that the
ordinance was valid and within the legislative grant of
power. Acts of the Assembly, 1922, p. 46.
The ordinances summarized above were those in effect
when the permit was granted by the council, and they
alone are involved in this inquiry. The attack here is
upon the set-back ordinance, and that is assailed as contravening the due process of law and equal protection
clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment to the federal
Constitution.
It is said, first, that the standard furnished is so vague
and uncertain as in reality to be no standard at all, since
the houses, or sixty per cent. of them, in any block may
stand at a variety of distances from the street, in which

event it cannot be determined from the ordinance whether

606

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U.S.

sixty per cent. of the houses nearest to the street or sixty
per cent. of those farthest from the street or some other
method of calculation is to govern. But in the present
case this contention may be put aside, since (a) the permit was granted and the building line fixed under the
proviso which reserved to the council in appropriate cases
authority to fix the building line without reference to this
limitation, and (b) as to the existing houses in the block
in question, the actual differences in respect of the building lines upon which more than sixty per cent. of them
stood are so slight as to be entirely negligible upon the
question of certainty.
The evidence shows that the variation in the location
of eighty per cent. of the existing houses was only onetenth of a foot and, ignoring this inconsequential difference, the established building line was slightly over fortytwo feet back from the street. The line designated for
petitioner's building was substantially more favorable to
him than this, being more than seven feet nearer the
street. Whether the provision of the ordinance, fixing the
line with relation to the location of sixty per cent. of the
existing houses, in its general, or in some other specific,
application is so vague as to amount to a denial of due
process, is a question which does not concern petitioner,
since, as applied to the facts in the present case, it is
definite enough, and since, in any event, he has been excepted from the operation of the provision; and it does
not appear that the alleged unconstitutional feature of
which he complains has injured him or operated to deprive him of any right under the federal Constitution.
Oliver Iron Co. v. Lord, 262 U. S. 172, 180-181; Chicago
Board of Trade v. Olsen, 262 U. S. 1, 42; Dahnke-Walker
Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282, 289; Jeffrey Mfg. Co. v.
Blagg, 235 U. S. 571, 576; Plymouth Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 531, 544-545.

GORIEB v. FOX.
603

Opinion of the Court.

The proviso, under which the council acted, also is attacked as violating the equal protection clause on the
ground that such proviso enables the council unfairly to
discriminate between lot owners by fixing unequal distances from the street for the erection of buildings of the
same character under like circumstances. We cannot,
of course, construe the ordinance as meaning that the
power may be thus exerted; nor may we assume in advance that it will be exercised by the council capriciously,
arbitrarily, or with inequality. It will be time enough to
complain when, if ever, the power shall be thus abused.
The proviso evidently proceeds upon the consideration
that an inflexible application of the ordinance may under some circumstances result in unnecessary hardship.
In laying down a general rule, such as the one with which
we are here concerned, the practical impossibility of
anticipating and providing in specific terms for every
exceptional case which may arise, is apparent. And
yet the inclusion of such cases may well result in great
and needless hardship, entirely disproportionate to the
good which will result from a literal enforcement of the
general rule. HenZe the wisdom and necessity here of
reserving the authority to determine whether, in specific
cases of need, exceptions may be made without subverting
the general purposes of the ordinance. We think it entirely plain that the reservation of authority in the present ordinance to deal in a special manner with such exceptional cases is unassailable upon constitutional
grounds. Wilson v. Eureka City, 173 U. S. 32, 36-37; In
re Flaherty, 105 Cal. 558, 562; Ex parte Fiske, 72 Cal.

125, 127.
Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, upon which petitioner relies, is not to the contrary. The ordinance there
involved vested uncontrolled discretion in the board of
supervisors, and this discretion was actually exercised for
the express purpose of depriving the petitioner in that

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

case of a privilege that was extended to others. See
Crowley v. Christensen, 137 U. S. 86, 94.
The remaining contention is that the ordinance, by
compelling petitioner to set his building back from the
street line of his lot, deprives him of his property without due process of law. Upon that question the decisions
are divided, as they are in respect of the validity of zoning regulations generally. But, after full consideration
of the conflicting decisions, we recently have held, Euclid
v. Ambler Co., 272 U. S. 365, that comprehensive zoning
laws and ordinances, prescribing, among other things, the
height of buildings to be erected (Welch v. Swasey, 214
U. S. 91) and the extent of the area to be left open for
light and air and in aid of fire protection, etc., are, in their
general scope, valid under the federal Constitution. It
is hard to see any controlling difference between regulations which require the lot-owner to leave open areas at
the sides and rear of his house and limit the extent of his
use of the space above his lot and a regulation which requires him to set his building a reasonable distance back
from the street. Each interferes in the same way, if not
to the same extent, with the owner's jeneral right of dominion over his property. All rest for their justification
upon the same reasons which have arisen in recent times
as a result of the great increase and concentration of population in urban communities and the vast changes in the
extent and complexity of the problems of modern city life.
Euclid v. Ambler Co., supra, p. 386. State legislatures
and city councils, who deal with the situation from a practical standpoint, are better qualified than the courts to
determine the necessity, character and degree of regulation which these new and perplexing conditions require;
and their conclusions should not be disturbed by the
courts unless clearly arbitrary and unreasonable. Zahn
v. Board of Public Works, ante, p. 325 and authorities
cited.

GORIEB v. FOX.
603

Opinion of the Court.

The property here involved forms part of a residential
district within which, it is fair to assume, permission to

erect business buildings is the exception and not the rule.
The members of the city council, as a basis for the ordi-

nance, set forth in their answer that front-yards afford
room for lawns and trees, keep the dwellings farther from
the dust, noise and fumes of the street, add to the attractivenessand comfort of a residential district, create a bet-

ter home environment, and, by securing a greater distance
between houses on opposite sides of the street, reduce
the fre hazard; that the projection of a building beyond
the front line of the adjacent dwellings cuts 6ff light and
air from them, and, by interfering with the view of street
corners, constitutes a danger in the operation of automobiles. We cannot deny the existence of these groundsindeed, they seem obvious. Other grounds, of like
tendency, have been suggested. The highest court of
the state, with greater familiarity with the local conditions and facts upon which the ordinance was based than
we possess, has sustained its constitutionality; and that
decision is entitled to the greatest respect and, in a case
of this kind, should be interfered with only if in our judgment it is plainly wrong, Welch v. Swasey, supra,p. 106, a
conclusion which, upon the record before us, it is impossible for us to reach.
The courts, it is true as already suggested, are in
disagreement as to the validity of set-back requirements.
An examination discloses that one group of decisions
holds that such requirements have no rational relation to
the public safety, health, morals, or general welfare, and
cannot be sustained as a legitimate exercise of the police
power. The view of the other group is exactly to the
contrary. In the Euclid case, upon a review of the decisions, we rejected the basic reasons upon which the decisions in the first group depend and accepted those upon
which rests the opposite view of the other group.
55514*-28---39

610

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

Nothing we think is to be gained by a similar review in
respect of the specific phase of the general question
which is presented here. As to that, it is enough to say
that, in consonance with the principles announced in the
Euclid case, and upon what, in the light of present day
conditions, seems to be the better reason, we sustain the
view put forward by the latter group of decisions, of
which the following are representative: Windsor v. Whitney, 95 Conn. 357; Matter of Wulfsohn v. Burden, 241
N. Y. 288, 303; Lincoln Trust Co. v. Williams Bldg.
Corp., 229 N. Y. 313.
Eubank v. Richmond, 226 U. S. 137, which is petitioner's main reliance upon this point, presented an altogether different question. The ordinance there considered requiredthe committee on streets to fix a building
line upon the request of the owners of two-thirds of the
property abutting on any street. The ordinance was held
bad by this court (p. 143) because it left no discretion in
the committee. "The action of the committee is determined by two-thirds of the property owners. In other
words, part of the property owners fronting on the
block determine the extent of use that other owners
shall make of their lots, and against the restriction they
are impotent. This we emphasize. One set of owners
determine not only the extent of use but the kind of
use which another set of owners may make of their property." And the court expressly declined (p. 144) to consider the power of a city to establish a building line or
regulate the structure or height of buildings.
Since upon consideration we are unable to say that the
ordinance under review is "clearly arbitrary and unreasonable, having no substantial relation to the public
health, safety, morals, or general welfare," we are bound
to sustain it as constitutional. Euclid v. Ambler Co.,
supra, p. 395.
Judgment affirmed.

