SEEMAN v. PHILA. WAREHOUSE CO.
398

403

Syllabus.

payer's establishing that there is no possibility of an
eventual recoupment. It would require a high degree
of optimism to discern in the seizure of enemy property
by the German government in 1918 more than a remote
hope of ultimate salvage from the wreck of the war.
The Taxing Act does not require the taxpayer to be an
incorrigible optimist.
We need not attempt to say what constitutes a closed
transaction evidencing loss in other situations. It is
enough to justify the deduction here that the transaction causing the loss was completed when the seizure
was made. It was none the less a deductible loss then,
although later the German government bound itself to
repay and an award was made by the Mixed blaiims Commission which may result in a recovery.
Judgment affirmed.

SEEMAN ET AL. v. PHILADELPHIA WAREHOUSE
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 198.

Argued March 8, 1927.-Decided May 16, 1927.

1. A corporation engaged in lending money or credit, may legitimately stipulate for repayment in the State in which it is organized and conducts its business, in accordance with its laws and at
the interest rate there allowable, even though the agreement for
the loan was entered into in another State where a different law
and a lower rate of interest prevail. P. 407.
2. The bona fides of a written agreement between the parties to a
loan for repayment in the State of the lender is not impeached, nor
a waiver established, by proof of other instances in which the
repayments under similar agreements between them were made in
the borrower's State where the legal interest rate was lower. P.409.
7 Fed. (2d) 999, affirmed.

404

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

CERTioI .AI(269 U. S. 543) to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals which reversed a judgment of the
District Court recovered by Seeman et al. in an action
against the Warehouse Company for conversion of
pledged goods.
Mr. Samuel F. Frank, with whom Messrs. Harry J.
Leffert, William N. Cohen, and Arthur W. Weil were on
the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Owen J. Roberts, with whom Mr. CharlesA. Riegelman was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUsTIce STONE delivered the opinion of the court.
Respondent brought suit in the district court for Southern New York to recover for the conversion of a quantity
of canned salmon pledged to it as security for a loan.
The pledgor, who had fraudulently regained possession,
sold the salmon to petitioners. The defense set up was
that the transaction between respondent and the pledgor
was usurious and therefore void under the law of New
York, where the pledgor conducted its business and where
petitioners contend the pledge agreement was made.
The trial court charged the jury that the New Yorx
law was applicable. The jury returned a verdict for
petitioners. The judgment on the verdict was reversed
by the court of appeals for the second circuit. 7 Fed.
(2d) 999. This Court granted certiorari. 269 U. S. 543.
Respondent is a Pennsylvania corporation having its
only office or place of business in Philadelphia. It has
an established credit and for many years has engaged in
a business which'is carried on according to the routine
followed in the present case, which respondent contends,
results in loans of credit and not of money. To applicants in need of funds it delivers its promissory note,
payable to its own order and then endorsed. The applicant in exchange gives the required security-here ware-

SEEMAN v. PHILA. WAREHOUSE CO.
403

405

Opinion of the Court.

house receipts for the salmon-and a pledge agreement
by which he undertakes to pay the amount of the note
at maturity to respondent at its office in Philadelphia,
and agrees that the collateral pledged shall be security
for all obligations present and prospective. At the same
time the applicant pays to respondent a "commission"
for its "services" and for the "advance of its credit" computed at the rate of 3 per cent. per annum on the face
of the note. He is then free to discount the note and to
use the proceeds. In practice, as in the present case,
respondent usually, with the consent of the borrower,
delivers the note to its oWn note broker in Philadelphia,
receives from him the proceeds of the note less discount
and brokerage, and pays or forwards the amount so received to the borrower. At maturity he must pay the
face value of the note to respondent or, as was the case
here, renew the note by paying a new commission and
the amount of the discount on the matured note. On
each transaction the applicant thus pays, in addition to
the amount of the proceeds of the note, the commission
and the discount. Respondent, after taking up its note,
retains the commission alone as the net compensation
for its part in the transaction. In addition, the applicant may, as was the case here, pay the fees of the note
broker and the fee or compensation of a loan broker,
acting as intermediary in securing the accommodation by
respondent,, a total amount far exceeding 6 per cent., the
legal rate of interest in New York. The commission and
discount paid here varied 'from 8 to 10 per cent.
per annum of the face amount of the notes, taking no
account of fees paid to brokers.
In Pennsylvania, the exaction of interest on loans of
money in excess of 6 per cent., the lawful rate, does not
invalidate the entire transaction, but excess interest may
be recovered by the borrower. Penn. Stat. 1920, §§ 12491,
12492; Montague v. McDowell, 99 Pa. St. 265, 269; Stay-

406

OCTOBER.TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

ton v. Riddle, 114 Pa. St. 464, 469; Marr v. Marr, 110
Pa. St. 60. The business carried on by respondent as
described, was considered and upheld by the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania as not usurious in Righter, Cowgill & Co. v. Philadelphia Warehouse Co., 99 Pa. St.
289.
To avoid the application of' the Pennsylvania law to
the present transaction and others for which the salmon
was held as security, and to bring them within the prohibition of the New York law, petitioners at the trial
relied on evidence that preliminary negotiations were had
in New York City between the pledgor and the agent of
respondent from which it might be inferred that the
agreement was in fact made there, although the formal
documents were dated at Philadelphia and respondent
actually executed its note and delivered it to the note
broker there. Petitioners also relied on the special circumstances of the case, particularly the fact that respondent itself piocured the proceeds of the note in Philadelphia and forwarded them to the borrower in New York,
as ground for the inference by the jury that the real
transaction was a loan of money thinly disguised as a
loan or sale of credit. As the total amount paid to respondent included both the discount and the commission,
aggregating more than the legal rate of interest, it is
insisted that these charges, if for a loan of money, were
usurious, even though respondent retained only the commission after satisfying the demands of the discounting
banks."
The court below held that there was no evidence that
the transaction was other than that of its form, a loan of
credit; that the agreement between the lender and the
borrower was completed only when the respondent delivered its note to the broker in Philadelphia and that the
agreement must therefore be regarded as a Pennsylvania
contract valid under the law of that state; and that in

SEEMAN v. PHILA. WAREHOUSE CO.
403

407

Opinion of the Court.

any case, as Philadelphia, by the express terms of the contract, was made the place of payment by the borrower,
the legality of the transaction must be determined by the
law of Pennsylvania and not of New York.
But in the view we take, we think it immaterial whether
the contract was entered into in New York or Pennsylvania, and it may be assumed for the purposes of our
decision that the jury might have found that in fact the
parties stipulated for a loan of money rather than of
credit.' Respondent, a Pennsylvania corporation having
its place of business in Philadelphia, could legitimately
lend funds outside the state and stipulate for repayment
in Pennsylvania in accordance with its laws and at the
rate of interest there lawful, even though the agreement
for the loan were entered into in another state where a
different law and a different rate of interest prevailed.
In the federal courts, as was said in Andrews v. Pond, 13
Pet. 65, 77-78, "The general principle in relation to contracts made in one place, to be executed in another, is
well settled. They are to be governed by the law of the
place of performance, and if the interest allowed by the
laws of the place of performance, is higher than that permitted at the place of contract, the parties may stipulate
for the higher interest, without incurring the penalties
of usury." Miller v. Tiffany, 1 Wall. 298; Bedford v.
Eastern Building & Loan Association, 181 U. S. 227, 242,
243; see Junction R. R. v. Ban of Ashland, 12 Wall. 226,
229; Peyton v. Heinekin, 131 U. S. Appendix, ci; cf.
Cromwell v. County of Sac., 96 U. S. 51, 52.
In support of a policy of upholding contractual obligations assumed in good faith, this Court has adopted the
I See Forgotstonv. McKeon, 14 App. Div. (N. Y.) 342; Gilbert v.
Warren, 56 App. Div. 289; In re Samuel Wildes' Sons, 133 Fed. 562;
Dry Dock Bank v. American Life Ins. & Trut Co., 3 N. Y. 344;
Williams v. Fowler, 22 How. Prac. 4.

408

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

converse of the rule quoted from Andrews v. Pond, supra.
"If the rate of interest be higher at the place of contract
than at the place of performance, the parties may lawfully contract in that case also for the higher rate." See
Miller v. Tiffany, supra, 310; Junction R. R. v. Bank of
Ashland, supra, 229; Cromwell v. County of Sac., supra,
62; Wharton, Conflict of Laws, § 510 h; cf. Tilden v.
Blair,21 Wall. 241; and see Cockle v. Flack, 93 U. S. 344,
347.
A qualification of these rules, as sometimes stated, is
that the parties must act in good faith, and that the form
of the transaction must not "disguise its real character."
See Miller v. Tiffany, supra, 310. As thus stated, the
qualification, if taken too literally, would destroy the rules
themselves for they obviously are to be invoked only to
save the contract from the operation of the usury laws
of the one jurisdiction or the other. The effect of the
qualification is merely to prevent the evasion or avoidance
at will of the usury law otherwise applicable, by the parties' entering into the contract or stipulating for its performance at a place which has no normal relation to the
transaction and to whose law they would not otherwise
be subject. Wharton, in his Conflict of Laws, § 510 o, in
discussing this qualification, says: "Assuming that their
real, bona fide intention was to fix the situs of the contract at a certain place which has a natural and vital
connection with the transaction, the fact that they were
actuated in so doing by an intention to obtain a higher
rate of interest than is allowable by the situs of some of
the other elements of the transaction does not prevent
the application of the law allowing the higher rate." See
Van Vleet v. Sledge, 45 Fed. 743, 752; Goodrich v. Williams, 50 Ga. 425, 435; U. S. Savings & Loan Co. v. Harris, 113 Fed. 27, 32.
Here respondent, organized and conducting its business
in Pennsylvania, was subject to laws of that state and

SEEMAN v. PHILA. WAREHOUSE CO.
403

409

Opinion of the Court.

had a legitimate interest in seeking their benefit. The
loan contract which stipulated for repayment there and
which thus chose that law as governing its validity cannot be condemned as an evasion of the law of New
York which might otherwise be deemed applicable.
Petitioners rely upon the fact that in some instances,
in connection with other transactions between respondent and the pledgor, payments on account of amounts
due were made by deposits in respondent's account in a
New York bank, although the other payments were made
in Philadelphia. But we do not think this circumstance
standing alone is sufficient to vary the application of the
rule. There is no suggestion to be found in the record
that in the negotiations preliminary to the signing of the
contract or at any other time there was any agreement
by the parties that payment should be made other than
in accordance with the tenor of the written agreement.
The pledgor never did pay the amount of the note involved in the present transaction. It was three times
renewed and on each renewal the discount on the maturing note and the commission on the renewal were either
paid by the pledgor by check in Philadelphia or deducted
there by his authority from the proceeds of the renewal
note. The fact that in some instances wholly unexplained such payments were received elsewhere affords
no basis for the contention that the written stipulation
for payment in Philadelphia was not the real one or that
its obligation was waived. If the creditor might have
compelled payment in the federal courts in New York, see
Bedford v. Eastern Building & Loan Association, supra,
he could receive payment there of a part of the debt without forfeiting the balance.
Judgment affirmed.

