LONGEST v. LANGFORD.
Opinion of the Court.

LONGEST v. LANGFORD

ET AL.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 342. Motion to dismiss submitted May 16, 1927.--Dismissed and
certiorari granted May 31, 1927.

1. A case from a state court involving only a question of the construction and applicability, but not the validity, of acts of Congress,
is not reviewable by writ of error under Jud. Code, § 237 (a), but
by certiorari under § 237 (b). P. 500.
2. A failure to observe this distinction may subject the party suing
out the writ to damages and double costs, under Rev. Stats. § 1010;
Jud. Code 237 (c). P. 500.
3. The papers on which a writ of error was improvidently allowed
by a chief justice of a state supreme court may, under Jud. Code,
§ 237 (c), be treated as a petition for certiorari, and as if presented
to this Court at the time when they were presented to him. P. 501.
Writ of error to 114 Okla. 50, dismissed.
Certiorari granted.

The facts are set out in the opinion.
Messrs. W. F. Semple, S. Russell Bowen, Guy Green,
and Robert R. Pruet for appellees, in support of the
motion.
Messrs. H. A. Ledbetter and H. E. Ledbetter for appellants, in opposition thereto.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
We here are asked to review a judgment of the Supreme
Court of Oklahoma rendered after the Act of February
13, 1925, c. 229, 43 Stat. 936, amending the Judicial Code,
became effective. An allotment made in the name and
right of a deceased Choctaw Indian woman under § 22
of the Act of July 1, 1902, c. 1362, 32 Stat. 641, is involved. The only federal question in the case is whether

500

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

2741. S.

Congress intended by that section and other related congressional enactments that the surviving husband of the
deceased should take an estate by the curtesy in the
land. This question was resolved by the Supreme Court
of the State in favor of the husband; and at the instance
of the opposing party the chief justice of that court allowed a writ of error bringing the judgment here for
review. The writ obviously was improvidently allowed.
Section 237(a) of the Judicial Code restricts the cases in
which we may review a judgment or decree of a state
court on writ of error to those "where is drawn in question the validity of a treaty or statute of the United
States, and the decision is against its validity; or where
is drawn in question the validity of a statute of any State,
on the ground of its being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties or laws of the United States, and the decision is in favor of its validity." This case does not involve any such constitutional question, but only a question of the construction and application of congressional
enactments concededly valid. It therefore falls within
the class where a review in this Court may be had only
on petition for certiorari under § 237(b) of the Judicial
Code. The distinction is important, has a real purpose
and should be given effect by all who are invested with
authority to allow writs of error running from this Court
to a state court. A failure to observe it may subject the
party suing out the writ to damages and double costs
(Rev. Stats., § 1010; Judicial Code, § 237(c)) and result
in harmful embarrassment to the other party. Of course
where the writ is improvidently allowed the other party
may move in this Court to dismiss it. But in actual practice this does not operate as an adequate corrective; for
the action of the judge in allowing the writ usually is
assumed to be advisedly taken. In the present case the
fact that the allowance was improvident escaped the notice of the parties for a full year,

