MESSEL v. FOUNDATION CO.
417

Syllabus.

by to postpone the period of its monopoly until a national

emergency might arise in which his invention, which
was for rifling cannon, should be more in demand than
it then was. He was denied a patent, for failure to comply with the statute. Subsequently he secured special
legislation imposing the condition that he should be
granted the patent, provided the court should first be

satisfied that he had not forfeited or abandoned his right
to a patent by publication, delay, laches or otherwise.

This Court held that the delay of nine years for the
avowed purpose of postponing the period of the monop-

oly was laches and a breach of the condition upon which
he might avail himself of the special congressional privilege granted him. Such a case has certainly no application here.

The answer to the question should be in the

negative.
Questions answered "No."
MESSEL v. FOUNDATION COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE
LOUISIANA.

OF

No. 202. Argued March 9, 1927.-Decided May 31, 1927.
1. Art. 2315, Rev. Code of Louisiana, providing: "Every act whatever of man that causes damage to another obliges him by whose
fault it happened to repair it," applies to personal injuries suffered
by a workman while engaged in repairing a vessel afloat on waters
of the United States and due to the negligence of his employer.
P. 432.
2. Such cause of action, under Art. 2315, is not barred by the Louisiana Workmen's Compensation Act which provides special means
and measures for adjusting claims for personal injuries in certain
occupations, including repair of vessels, and declares its remedies
exclusive, but does not by its terms include maritime injuries or
torts under federal law. P. 432.
3. Art. 2315, Louisiana Rev. Code, supra, furnishes the equivalent of
a "common law remedy," saved to suitors in the state court by § 9,
Judiciary Act of 1789, § 256 Jud. Code. P. 433.

428

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

4. The right of action under this section, in the state court, in a case
of maritime tort, is governed by the federal admiralty law, including the applicable section of the Federal Employers' Liability Act
incorporated in that law by the Merchant Marine Act, of June 5,
1920, § 33, c. 250, 41 Stat. 1007. P. 434.
5. In an action under Art. 2315, supra, for personal injuries in performance of a marine contract, an amendment to the complaint
claiming in the alternative under the Workmen's Compensation Act,
is surplusage, and does not subject the plaintiff to the prescription
of one year provided by the latter statute. P. 433.
6. A denial by a state court of its jurisdiction, is reviewable here,
when based on an erroneous view of the federal law. P. 432.
Reversed.

CERTIORARI (269 U. S. 544) to a judgment of the
Supreme Court of Louisiana which refused to review a
judgment of the state Court of Appeals affirming the
dismissal of an action for damages resulting from personal injuries. The action of the state Supreme Court
was based on the ground that the judgment of the intermediate court was correct.
Mr. Claude Z. Johnson, with whom Messrs. Charles L.
Denechaud and James F. Pierson were on the brief, for
petitioner.

Mr. Purnell M. Milner for respondent.
MR. CHIEF J-usTIcE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
On December 20, 1920, Robert L. Messel filed a suit in
the Civil District Court for the Parish of Orleans, State
oi Louisiana, to recover $10,000, as for damages for personal injuries, from the Foundation Company, a corporation of the State of New York doing business in Louisiana as a ship builder and repairer of sea-going steamships. The facts as averred in his petition were as follows: He was employed by the Foundation Company in

MESSEL v. FOUNDATION CO.
427

Opinion of the Court.

September, 1919, as a helper to a boilermaker. He was
sent with the boilermaker on board the steamship LaGrange, then afloat on the Mississippi River at New Orleans. The task to be performed was to add eight feet
to the smoke'tack of the steamer. The two men were
furnished ladders to ascend to the top of the stack and,
while engaged in the work, Messel was brought directly
over the mouth of the steam escape pipe running from the
engine room. While he was so engaged, scalding steam
was allowed to escape from the pipe. It overcame him,
and inflicted serious injuries.
The 14th paragraph of his petition is:
" Petitioner represents that he is entitled to claim and
recover under Civil Code Article 2315 of this State all the
damages sustained by him arising from the casualties
aforesaid and to have the amount of the reparations fixed
and determined before the Court after due trial and hearing had, and as provided by Article 6 of the Constitution
of 1913 of this State; and not by the amount of sums
provided for" and not by Act No. 20, of 1914, and its
amendments.
In his petition he attacks the Louisiana Workman's
Compensation Act known as Act No. 20 of 1914, as invalid under the state constitution. He says that when
injured he was engaged in marine work in admiralty on the
steamship on the navigable waters of the United States,
and that this entitled him to an action in personam
against the owner and master of the vessel, but that, as
the owner and master had departed from the port for a
foreign port before he was able to bring his action in admiralty, and as the Foundation Company holds indemnity
against any loss to it on account of the damage claimed,
he prays for judgment against his employer.
The Foundation Company excepted to the petition on
the ground that it disclosed no legal cause of action; but
in the event that the exception should be overruled, the

430

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

company admitted the averments of the petition, save
that it charged that the petitioner was guilty of gross
negligence, and assumed the risk, and that the injuries
received were due to his own fault or were caused by the
negligence of a fellow servant. It denied the extent of
the damage; said that the petitioner was precluded from
bringing his action under Art. 2315 of the Civil Code, but
must bring it under the State Workman's Compensation
act.
Messel amended his petition, reaffirming the averments
of his original petition, but in the alternative asked, if it
should be held that the Workman's Compensation Act of
Louisiana was not unconstitutional and did apply, that
he have compensation under that act in $4,000, or in $10
a week for four hundred weeks provided in the act. This
amendment was filed May 22, 1922, by order of court.
An exception by respondent was taken on the ground that
the amended petition had changed the issue and was an
attempt, after the lapse of more than one year from the
date of the injuries, to bring the suit under the Workman's
Compensation Act, while the original action was brought
under Civil Code 2315 for damages for a tort, that the
claim was therefore prescribed under Art. 31 of Act No.
20 of 1914. By a judgment of July 19, 1922, the exceptions filed by the Foundation Company were sustained
and the suit against it was dismissed.
The Court of Appeals of the Parish of Orleans, to which
the case was then taken on appeal, held that the objections to the constitutionality of the Workman's Compensation Act could not be sustained. It further decided
that, if the petitioner's right of action was not under the
Workman's Compensation Act, the state courts had no
jurisdiction of such demands ratione materiae;that it had
twice decided that the state court was without jurisdiction in an action brought under the Workman's Compensation Act where the plaintiffs sustained injuries while
aboard a ship under a maritime contract; that these decisions were in accord with the opinion of the Supreme

MESSEL v. FOUNDATION CO.
427

Opinion of the Court.

Court of Louisiana in Lawson v. New York Steamship
Company, 148 La. 290, and with the decisions of this
Court in Southern Pacific v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205, affirmed in Knickerbocker v. Stewart, 253 U. S. 149, and
State v. Dawson, 264 U. S. 219, and in Peters v. Veasey,
251 U. S. 121; and that an employee like Messel, who
suffered injury upon a vessel under a maritime contract
of employment, could not obtain compensation in a state
court of Louisiana.
Application was then made to the Supreme Court of
Louisiana for a writ of certiorari to review the decree of
dismissal by the Court of Appeals. The writ was refused
by the Supreme Court on the ground that the judgment
was correct, May 25, 1925.
Art. 2315 of the Revised Code of Louisiana under
which Messel sought recovery is as follows: "Every act
whatever of man that causes damage to another obliges
him by whose fault it happened to repair it."
The Workman's Compensation Act, No. 20 of the Acts of
1914, as amended in subsequent acts, provides for the
prosecution of claims for personal injuries in certain
hazardous trades, businesses, and occupations, includes
the operation, construction, repair, removal, maintenance,
and demolition of vessels, boats and other water craft,
and provides certain payments for such injuries. Section
34 of the act provides that the rights and remedies therein
granted to an employee on account of personal injury, for
which he is entitled to compensation under the act, shall
be exclusive of all other rights and remedies of such employee, his personal representative, dependents, relations
or otherwise, on account of such injury.
The argument of the Court of Appeals in reaching its
conclusion in this case was that, because it had been held
in Peters v. Veasey, Southern Pacific Company v. Jensen,
Knickerbocker Ice Company v. Stewart, and in State v.
Dawson, that a Workman's Compensation Act could have
no application to an injury to one working as an employee
on a vessel afloat on the waters of the United States,

432

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

where his work was upon a maritime contract and the
rights and liabilities of the parties were matters clearly
within the admiralty jurisdiction, a state court had no
power to consider and decide a claim that must rest on
the maritime law, because the Workman's Compensation
Act was made exclusive by its terms and prevented the
operation and application of § 2315 granting what was
equivalent to a common law remedy in the enforcement
of such a maritime claim. At first this decision would
seem to be conclusive upon us, because it would seem to
be a construction by the Louisiana state court of the jurisdiction conferred by its own statute upon its own courts.
But this is a misconception of what the court actually
decided in respect of the statute. The Workman's Compensation Act did not by its terms include a maritime
injury or tort under the federal law such as is the basis
of this suit. The state court's ruling, as we conceive it,
was not that § 2315 was not broad enough to include a
suit for a maritime tort as between master and servant if
the federal law permitted it, but that the federal law does
not permit it and, therefore, such a suit can only be maintained in a federal admiralty court. That is an erroneous
view of the rulings of our Court as to the application of
workmen's compensation acts. Section 2315 offers a remedy in the state court for any act whatever of man that
causes damage to another and obliges him by whose fault
it happened to repair it. That includes everything except
what the Workman's Compensation Act bars from recovery
under this general section. The Workman's Compensation
Act does not bar from recovery suit for damages against
another for a maritime tort. Clearly therefore suit for
such a tort is not excluded from the jurisdiction of the
state court under § 2315 unless the federal law forbids.
To hold that the federal law forbids would be to deprive
the petitioner in this case of the right secured to him
under the Judiciary Act of 1789, § 9, as now contained

MESSEL v. FOUNDATION CO.
427

433

Opinion of the Court.

in paragraph third of § 256 of the Judicial Code, which
gives exclusive jurisdiction in- courts of the United States
of all civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction,
"saving to suitors in all cases the right of a common law
remedy where the common law is competent to give it."
Section 2315 has been held by the Supreme Court of
Louisiana to furnish the equivalent of the common law.
In Gray v. New Orleans Dry Dock and Shipping Company, 146 La. 826, a case very much like this, a workman
was injured while engaged in maritime employment. His
action invoked Art. 2315 of the Civil Code. The respondent in the case pleaded that the petitioner's right of
action, if any, was governed by the Workman's Compensation Act No. 20 of 1914, and not by the provisions
of Art. 2315 of the Revised Civil Code of Louisiana,
as pleaded by the plaintiffs. The Supreme Court of
Louisiana said:
"The work in which plaintiff was engaged at the time
he was injured was maritime in its nature; his employment was a maritime contract, and his claim for damages
was enforceable in the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction. For that reason, before the passage of the act of
Congress of October 6, 1917, the Employers' Liability
Act was not pertinent, and did not deprive the plaintiff
of the right of a common-law remedy. We say 'commonlaw remedy' because article 2315 of the Civil Code of this
state is only an embodiment of the common-law right of
action for tort, viz: 'Every act whatever of man that
causes damage to another obliges him by whose fault it
happened to repair it."'
The fact that Messel in the alternative asked for a
recovery under the Workman's Compensation Act could
not defeat him in his continuous request to .proceed under
Art. 2315; and, as the original action invoked Art. 2315,
and he is still invoking the remedy provided by that
Article, there would seem to be no opportunity for the
55514°-28-28

