OCTOBER TERM, 1983
Per Curiam

466 U. S.

FLORIDA v. MEYERS, AKA WEYERS
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE DISTRICT
COURT OF APPEAL OF FLORIDA, FOURTH DISTRICT
No. 83-1279.

Decided April 23, 1984

At the time of respondent's arrest for sexual battery, police officers
searched his automobile and seized several items. Approximately eight
hours after the car was impounded, an officer, without obtaining a warrant, searched the car a second time, seizing additional evidence. The
Florida trial court denied respondent's motion to suppress the evidence
seized during the second search, and respondent was convicted. The
Florida District Court of Appeal reversed, holding that even though respondent conceded that the initial search of the car was valid, the second
warrantless search violated the Fourth Amendment because the car had
been impounded, removing the element of mobility.
Held: The Fourth Amendment was not violated by the second search of
respondent's car. The justification to conduct a warrantless search of
a car that has been stopped on the road-based on probable cause to
believe there is evidence of crime inside it--does not vanish once the
car has been impounded and immobilized. Michigan v. Thomas, 458
U. S. 259.
Certiorari granted; 432 So. 2d 97, reversed and remanded.
PER CURIAM.

Respondent was charged with sexual battery. At the
time of his arrest, police officers searched his automobile and
seized several items. The vehicle was then towed to Sunny's
Wrecker, where it was impounded in a locked, secure area.
Approximately eight hours later, a police officer went to the
compound and, without obtaining a warrant, searched the car
for a second time. Additional evidence was seized. At the
subsequent trial, the court denied respondent's motion to
suppress the evidence seized during the second search, and
respondent was convicted.
On appeal, the Florida District Court of Appeal for the
Fourth District reversed the conviction, holding that even

FLORIDA v. MEYERS

380

Per Curiam

though respondent conceded that the initial search of the
automobile was valid, the second search violated the Fourth
Amendment. 432 So. 2d 97 (1983). The court concluded
that Chambers v. Maroney, 399 U. S. 42 (1970), in which this
Court held that police officers who have probable cause to believe there is contraband inside an automobile that has been
stopped on the road may search it without obtaining a warrant, was distinguishable, stating that "in this case the element of mobility was removed because [respondent's] vehicle
had been impounded." 432 So. 2d, at 99. The Florida
Supreme Court denied the State's petition for discretionary
review, and the State filed the present petition for certiorari.
We reverse.*
*Even though the District Court of Appeal remanded the case for a new
trial, its decision on the federal constitutional issue is reviewable at this
time because if the State prevails at the trial, the issue will be mooted; and
if the State loses, governing state law, Fla. Stat. ยง 924.07 (1981); State v.
Brown, 330 So. 2d 535, 536 (Fla. App. 1976), will prohibit it from presenting the federal claim for review. In such circumstances, we have consistently held that "the decision below constitute[s] a final judgment under 28
U. S. C. ยง 1257(3)." Californiav. Stewart, decided with Mirandav. Arizona, 384 U. S. 436, 497, 498, n. 71 (1966). See South Dakota v. Neville,
459 U. S. 553, 558, n. 6 (1983); North Dakota PharmacyBoard v. Snyder's
Stores, 414 U. S. 156, 159-164 (1973). See also Cox BroadcastingCorp. v.
Cohn, 420 U. S. 469, 481 (1975).
Respondent contends that we should not review the issue raised by petitioner because "the appellate court reversed [respondent's] conviction on
two independent grounds, one of which (restricted cross-examination) petitioner does not contest." Brief in Opposition 2. To the extent that this is
an argument that the lower court's judgment is unreviewable because it
rests on adequate and independent state grounds, we reject it. First, it is
highly questionable whether the District Court of Appeal would have reversed the conviction had it not reversed the trial court's ruling on the suppression motion. The court did state that respondent's cross-examination
of the victim had been unduly restricted by the trial court. However, the
court's short discussion of this issue was introduced by the observation that
"[s]ince the case must be remanded for a new trial we briefly mention another appellate point." 432 So. 2d, at 99. This is hardly a clear indication

OCTOBER TERM, 1983
Per Curiam

466 U. S.

The District Court of Appeal either misunderstood or ig-

nored our prior rulings with respect to the constitutionality
of the warrantless search of an impounded automobile. In
Michigan v. Thomas, 458 U. S. 259 (1982), we upheld a warrantless search of an automobile even though the automobile
was in police custody and even though a prior inventory
search had already been made. That ruling controls the disposition of this case. In Thomas, we expressly rejected the
argument accepted by the District Court of Appeal in the
present case, noting that the search upheld in Chambers was
conducted "after [the automobile was] impounded and [was]
in police custody" and emphasizing that "the justification to
conduct such a warrantless search does not vanish once the
car has been immobilized." 458 U. S., at 261. The District
Court of Appeal's ruling that the subsequent search in this
case was invalid because the car had been impounded is
clearly inconsistent with Thomas and Chambers. The petition for certiorari is therefore granted, the judgment of the
that the cross-examination ruling provided an independent and adequate
basis for reversal of the conviction. See Michigan v. Long, 463 U. S.
1032, 1040-1041 (1983).
Moreover, even if the cross-examination ruling did provide an independent state ground for reversal, we would still be empowered to review the
constitutional issue raised by petitioner. The reason we cannot review a
state-court judgment resting on adequate and independent state grounds is
that "[wie are not permitted to render an advisory opinion, and if the same
judgment would be rendered by the state court after we corrected its
views of federal laws, our review could amount to nothing more than an
advisory opinion." Herb v. Pitcairn,324 U. S. 117, 126 (1945). In the
present case, there is no possibility that our opinion will be merely advisory. Even if the District Court of Appeal were to order a new trial solely
on the basis of its cross-examination ruling, the admissibility of critical evidence at that trial hinges on the constitutional issue presented for review
by petitioner. Thus, our resolution of that issue will affect the proceedings below regardless of how the District Court of Appeal rules on remand. In such circumstances there is no jurisdictional reason why we
cannot address the issue presented to us.

FLORIDA v. MEYERS

380

STEVENS,

J., dissenting

District Court of Appeal is reversed, and the case is remanded to that court for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE STEVENS, with whom JUSTICE BRENNAN and

join, dissenting.
No judicial system is perfect. In this case the Florida District Court of Appeal for the Fourth District appears to have
made an error. In the exercise of its discretion, the Florida
Supreme Court elected not to correct that error. No reasons were given for its denial of review and since the record
is not before us, we cannot know what discretionary factors
may have prompted the Florida Supreme Court's decision.
This Court, however, finds time to correct the apparent error
committed by the intermediate appellate court, acting summarily without benefit of briefs on the merits or argument.
"This Court can only deal with a certain number of cases on
the merits in any given Term, and therefore some judgment
must attend the process of selection." Torres-Valencia v.
United States, 464 U. S. 44 (1983) (REHNQUIST, J., dissenting). If the error corrected today had been committed by a
federal court, the Court's action arguably would be a proper
exercise of its supervisory powers over the federal judicial
system. See this Court's Rule 17.1(a). Or if the case raised
a novel question of federal law on which there was a divergence of opinion, arguably it would be proper for the Court
to assume jurisdiction for the purpose of clarifying the law.
See this Court's Rules 17.1(b) and (c). Or if there were reason to believe that the state court refused to apply federal
precedent because of its hostility to this Court's interpretation of the Constitution, see generally Cooper v. Aaron, 358
U. S. 1 (1958), we might have an obligation to act summarily
to vindicate the supremacy of federal law. No such consideration is present in this case. In fact, the case on which the
majority principally relies, Michigan v. Thomas, 458 U. S.
JUSTICE MARSHALL

OCTOBER TERM, 1983
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

466 U. S.

259 (1982) (per curiam), was itself a summary disposition.
Clearly, the law in this area is well settled. That being the
case, I see no reason why we cannot leave to the Florida

Supreme Court the task of managing its own discretionary
docket. 1
For three other reasons I believe the Court should deny
certiorari in cases of this kind. First, our pronouncements
'The Court does, however, manage to inject legal significance into this
otherwise unremarkable case through its discussion of whether the judgment below rests on an independent and adequate state ground. Ante, at
381-382, n. The Florida District Court of Appeal found that two errors
had been committed by the trial court, one on the Fourth Amendment
question and another on a state-law ground regarding the scope of respondent's cross-examination of the complaining witness. This Court states that
there is federal jurisdiction in this case because the Florida District Court
of Appeal did not provide "a clear indication that the cross-examination
ruling provided an independent and adequate basis for reversal of the
conviction," ibid., and relies on the "clear statement" rule of Michigan v.
Long, 463 U. S. 1032, 1040-1042 (1983). This is what Long held:
"[W]hen, as in this case, a state court decision fairly appears to rest primarily on federal law, or to be interwoven with the federal law, and when
the adequacy and independence of any possible state law ground is not
clear from the face of the opinion, we will accept as the most reasonable
explanation that the state court decided the case the way it did because it
believed that federal law required it to do so. If a state court chooses
merely to rely on federal precedents as it would on the precedents of all
other jurisdictions, then it need only make clear by a plain statement in
its judgment or opinion that the federal cases are being used only for the
purpose of guidance, and do not themselves compel the result that the
court has reached." Id., at 1040-1041.
In effect, Long created a presumption of jurisdiction when the state decision rests "primarily on" or is "interwoven with" federal law. See id., at
1042, and n. 8. Here, the cross-examination ruling in no sense "rested on"
or was "interwoven with" federal law. Yet today, by its citation of Long,
the Court implies that all state courts have some sort of duty to make a
plain statement that even their indisputably state-law decisions are independent of any federal question in the case. This apparent extension of
Long occurs without briefs on the merits or argument; in fact petitioner
does not even cite Long. It is all the more puzzling since the last paragraph in the Court's footnote is sufficient to support the exercise of jurisdiction over this case without any reliance on Long.

FLORIDA v. MEYERS
380

STEVENS,

J., dissenting

concerning our confidence in the ability of the state judges to
decide Fourth Amendment questions, see Allen v. McCurry,
449 U. S. 90 (1980); Stone v. Powell, 428 U. S. 465 (1976), are
given a hollow ring when we are found peering over their
shoulders after every misreading of the Fourth Amendment.
Second, our ability to perform our primary responsibilities
can only be undermined by enlarging our self-appointed role
as supervisors of the administration of justice in the state
judicial systems. Dispositions such as that today can only
encourage prosecutors to file in increasing numbers petitions
for certiorari in relatively routine cases, and if we take it
upon ourselves to review and correct every incorrect disposition of a federal question by every intermediate state
appellate court, we will soon become so busy that we will
either be unable to discharge our primary responsibilities
effectively, or else be forced to make still another adjustment
in the size of our staff in order to process cases effectively.
We should focus our attention on methods of using our scarce
resources wisely rather than laying another course of bricks
in the building of a federal judicial bureaucracy.
Third, and perhaps most fundamental, this case and cases
like it pose disturbing questions concerning the Court's conception of its role. Each such case, considered individually,
may be regarded as a welcome step forward in the never-ending war against crime. Such decisions are certain to receive
widespread approbation, particularly by members of society
who have been victimized by lawless conduct. But we must
not forget that a central purpose of our written Constitution,
and more specifically of its unique creation of a life-tenured
federal judiciary, was to ensure that certain rights are firmly
secured against possible oppression by the Federal or State
Governments. As I wrote last Term: "I believe that in
reviewing the decisions of state courts, the primary role of
this Court is to make sure that persons who seek to vindicate
federal rights have been fairly heard." Michigan v. Long,
463 U. S. 1032, 1068 (1983) (emphasis in original) (dissenting
opinion). Yet the Court's recent history indicates that, at

OCTOBER TERM, 1983
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

466 U. S.

least with respect to its summary dispositions, it has been
primarily concerned with vindicating the will of the majority
and less interested in its role as a protector of the individual's
constitutional rights.2 Since the beginning of the October
1981 Term, the Court has decided in summary fashion 19
cases, including this one, concerning the constitutional rights
of persons accused or convicted of crimes. All 19 were decided on the petition of the warden or prosecutor, and in all
he was successful in obtaining reversal of a decision upholding a claim of constitutional right.' I am not saying that
none of these cases should have been decided summarily.
But I am saying that this pattern of results, and in particular the fact that in its last two and one-half Terms the Court
has been unwilling in even a single criminal case to employ
its discretionary power of summary disposition in order to
uphold a claim of constitutional right, is quite striking. It
may well be true that there have been times when the Court
2

This trend, unfortunately, does not appear to be limited to the Court's
summary dispositions. See Long, 463 U. S., at 1069-1070, and n. 3 (STEVENS, J., dissenting).
'The cases, other than this one, are: Rushen v. Spain, 464 U. S. 114
(1983) (per curiam); Wainwright v. Goode, 464 U. S. 78 (1983) (per
curiam); California v. Beheler, 463 U. S. 1121 (1983) (per curiam); Illinois v. Batchelder,463 U. S. 1112 (1983) (per curiam);Maggio v. Fulford,
462 U. S. 111 (1983) (per curiam); Cardwell v. Taylor, 461 U. S. 571
(1983) (per curiam); Wyrick v. Fields, 459 U. S. 42 (1982) (per curiam);
Anderson v. Harless, 459 U. S. 4 (1982) (per curiam); United States v.
Hollywood Motor CarCo., 458 U. S. 263 (1982) (per curiam);Michigan v.
Thomas, 458 U. S. 259 (1982) (per curiam);Fletcherv. Weir, 455 U. S. 603
(1982) (per curiam); Sumner v. Mata, 455 U. S. 591 (1982) (per curiam);
Wainwright v. Torna, 455 U. S. 586 (1982) (per curiam); Hutto v. Davis,
454 U. S. 370 (1982) (per curiam); Harris v. Rivera, 454 U. S. 339 (1981)
(per curiam); Leeke v. Timmerman, 454 U. S. 83 (1981) (per curiam);
Jago v. Van Curen, 454 U. S. 14 (1981) (per curiam); Duckworth v.
Serrano, 454 U. S. 1 (1981) (per curiam). See also Board of Ed. of
Rogers, Ark. v. McCluskey, 458 U. S. 966, 972-973 (1982) (STEVENS, J.,
dissenting).

FLORIDA v. MEYERS
380

STEVENS,

387

J., dissenting

overused its power of summary disposition to protect the
citizen against government overreaching. Nevertheless, the
Court must be ever mindful of its primary role as the protector of the citizen and not the warden or the prosecutor. The
Framers surely feared the latter more than the former.
I respectfully dissent.

