OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

301 U. S.

of petitioners to be deprived of all opportunity to receive
a sentence which would give them freedom from custody
and control prior to the expiration of the 15-year term.
Petitioners were wrongly sentenced under the Act of
1935. Whether, in consequence of the invalidity of the
later act, as applied to petitioners, they may be sentenced
under the earlier, is a question for the state court.
The cause will be reversed and remanded for further
proceedings, not inconsistent with -this opinion.

Reversed.
UNITED STATES ET AL. v. AMERICAN SHEET &
TIN PLATE CO. ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 734. Argued April 9, 12, 1937.-Decided May 17, 1937.
1. Orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission requiring carriers
to desist from spotting cars on industrial plant tracks as part of
the service rendered under interstate line-haul rates and from
granting allowances out of the line-haul rates to industries doing
such spotting, held adequately supported by the Commission's findings in each case that the interchange tracks of the respective industries are reasonably convenient points for the receipt and delivery of interstate shipments and that the industry performs no
service beyond those points of interchange for which the carrier
is compensated under its interstate line-haul rates. P. 406.
These findings are an adjudication by the Commission that the
spotting service within the plants is not transportation service
which the carriers are bound to render in respect of receipt and
delivery of freight.
2. The Commission is not foreclosed by its earlier decisions from investigating the varied practice of making allowances for plant
switching and from making proper orders to regulate the practice
and prevent performance of a service not within the carriers' transportation obligation. P. 407.
3. Upon finding that the carriers' service of transportation is complete upon delivery to the industries' interchange tracks, and that

U. S. v. AM. TIN PLATE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

402

spotting within the plants is not included in the service for which
the line-haul rates were fixed, there is power in the Commission to
enjoin the performance of that additional service or the making
an allowance to the industry which performs it. P. 408.
4. The Commission's findings are sustained by the evidence. P. 409.
15 F. Supp. 7T1, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court, of three
judges, setting aside orders of the Interstate Commerce
Commission concerning the spotting of cars. The case
was a consolidation of several cases, each brought by a
different industrial corporation, which were tried together
and disposed of by one decree.

Mr. Daniel W. Knowlton, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, Assistant Attorney General Jackson, and Messrs.
Elmer B. Collins and Edward M. Reidy were on the brief,
for the United States and Interstate Commerce Commission, appellants.
Messrs. David A. Reed and John S. Burchmore, with
whom Messrs. Arthur B. Van Buskirk, Robert L. Kirkpatrick, and Luther M. Walter were on the brief, for
appellees.
By leave of Court, Messrs. Thomas P. Healy, Guernsey
Orcutt, Andrew P. Martin, Marion B. Pierce, Charles R.
Webber, M. Carter Hall, and Jervis Langc n, Jr., filed a
brief, as amici curiae, on behalf of certain Railroad Companies, urging affirmance of the decree below.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an appeal from decrees of a specially constituted District Court 1 of three judges enjoining and setting aside orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission
1 15 F. Supp. 711.

404

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

which required certain carriers to cease and desist from
spotting cars on industrial plant tracks as part of the
service rendered under interstate line-haul rates and from
granting allowances out of the line-haul rates to industries doing such spotting. The appellees are five industrial concerns affected by the orders. They contend that
the spotting service in .question is, transportation within
the meaning of the Interstate Commerce Act; that the
performance of the service, or the payment of an allowance to an industry which itself performs it, is sanctioned
by custom and practice and by previous adjudications of
the Commission; and that line-haul rates were fixed in
contemplation of the rendition of such service. They further charge the orders are void because not supported by
the Commission's findings or the evidence.
Upon its own motion the Commission instituted an
investigation known as "Ex Parte No. 104, Practices of
Carriers affecting Operating Revenues or; Expenses."
Part II of that proceeding had to do with terminal services. Voluminous evidence was adduced largely consisting of testimony by operating officials of carriers and
traffic representatives of shippers touching the service
of spotting cars at points upon the systems of plant
trackage maintained by large industries. The Commission's report summarized its conclusions based on the
evidence as to conditions at approximately two hundred
industrial plants where spotting allowances were paid by
the carriers and numerous plants where such services were
performed by the carrier. The Commission found that
line-haul rates had not been fixed to compensate the carriers for the performance of the service in question and
that the railroads, after fixing their rates, had assumed a
burden not previously borne by them. It found that
§ 15 (13) of the Act permitting allowances by carriers to
those performing a portion of the service of transportation had been made the instrument of abuse by the pay2209

I. C. C. 11.

U. S. v. AM. TIN PLATE CO.
402

405

Opinion of the Court.

ment of unwarranted allowances and added: "When a
carrier is prevented at its ordinary operating convenience
from reaching points of loading or unloading within a
plant, without interruption or interference by the desires
of an industry or the disabilities of its plant, such as the
manner in which the industrial operations are conducted,
the arrangement or condition of its tracks, weighing service, or similar circumstances, . . the service beyond
the point of interruption or interference is in excess of
that performed in simple switching or team-track delivery." In conclusion, the report states that payment
for or exemption of the cost of service performed beyond
such points of interruption or interference is in violation
of § 6, provides the means by which the industry enjoys
a preferential service not accorded to shippers generally,
dissipates the carrier's funds and revenues, is not in conforinity with the efficient or economical management contemplated by the Interstate Comierce Act and is not in
the public interest. No orders were made upon the footing of the main report, but thereafter, Division 6 promulgated supplemental reports recapitulating the testimony touching particular plants and making findings
with respect to each and the service rendered thereat.
Upon the basis of these supplementary proceedings orders
to cease and desist were entered.' The carriers thereupon gave notice of a revision of the applicable tariffs,
cancelling allowances or withdrawing the spotting service.
Each appellee filed a bill praying that the order affecting
it be set aside and enforcement be restrained. The causes
3 The reports and orders affecting the appellees are the following:
American Sheet & Tin Plate Company Terminal Allowance, 209
I. C. C. 719; Allegheny Steel Company Terminal Allowance, 209
I. C. C. 273; Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company Terminal Allowance,
209 I. C. C. 467; Weirton Steel Company Terminal Allowance, 209
I. C. C. 445; West Leechburg Steel Company Terminal Allowance,
210 I. C. C. 213; Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company Terminal Allowance, 210 I. C. C. 527.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

were consolidated for hearing and were disposed of upon
a single record in one opinion. Separate decrees were
entered in the respective causes granting the requested
relief. The appellants took a single appeal from all the
decrees. We hold the Commission's orders were lawful
and should not have been set aside.
First. The appellees urge that the orders are fatally
defective because the Commission failed to make the
necessai quasi-judicial findings. They point out that
the Commission held that an allowance furnished a means
whereby an indastry enjoyed a preferential service not
accorded to shippers generally, and constituted a refund
or remission of a portion of .the rate for transportation
in violation of § 6 (7) of the Interstate Commerce Act.
They assert these conclusions are insufficient to support
a cease and desist order because the Commission has not
found, as it must to bottom an order on §§ 2, 3 and 15 (1)
of the Act,4 that the practice was unreasonable, unjustly
preferential, unduly discriminatory, or otherwise unlawful" Respecting § 6 (7)1 they say that as, by that section
and § 15 (13), 6 allowances to shippers who perform a part
of the service of transportation are permissible if tariffs
setting forth the nature and amount of the allowance
are duly filed, as they were in the present instance, it
cannot be an unlawful refund or rebate for the carriers to
make the allowances which the tariffs specify. If the
findings were limited to the practices specified in the sections mentioned the position of the appellees would no
doubt be sound, but the Commission has, in each case,
found that the interchange tracks of the respective industries are reasonably convenient points for the receipt and
delivery of interstate shipments and that the industry
performs no service beyond those points of interchange
4

49 U.

S. C. §§ 2, 3 (1), 15 (1).

&49 U. S. C. § 6 (7).

0 49

U. S. C. § 15 (13).

U. S. v. AM. TIN PLATE CO.
402

407

Opinion of the Court.

for which the carrier is compensated under its interstate
line-haul rates. These findings are an adjudication by
the Commission that the spotting service within the appellees' plants is not transportation service which the
carriers are bound to render in respect of receipt and
delivery of freight. The statute contains this definition:
"The term 'transportation' shall include . . . all services
in connection with the receipt, delivery, elevation, and
transfer in transit . . . of property transported." ' The
Interstate Commerce Commission is authorized and required to enforce the provisions of the Act ' and, after
hearing, if it be of opinion that any regulation or practice
of a carrier be unjust or unreasonable, or unjustly discriminatory, "or otherwise in violation of the provisions
of this act," to determine what practice is or will be
just, fair and reasonable to be thereafter followed and
to make an order that the carrier cease and desist from
violation to the extent that the Commission finds violation does or will exist.9
Second. The Commission, so it is said, has approved
allowances in instances such as those under review and
by a long' course of decision has sanctioned the practice;
and the claim is that the carriers have relied ;upon the
Commission's action in doing plant spotting or making
allowance for the performance of that service by industries. We cannot agree either that the Commission has
so decided or that if it had it would be concluded from
re-examining the question in the light of existing conditions. The Commission has repeatedly dealt with the
matter." , In numerous instances, upon application of
7Act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, § 1, 34 Stat. 584; 49 U. S. C.
§ 1 (3).
849 U. S. C., § 12 (1).
949 U. S. C., § 15 (1).
10 Associated Jobbers of Los Angeles v. A. T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 18
I. C. C. 310; Car Spotting Charges, 34 I. C. C. 609; National Malle-

408

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

an industry for the performance of spotting service on its
plant track system, or for an allowance from the carrier
for itself performing the service, the Commission, in the
view that like service was performed or an allowance paid
for it at other similar plants, has ordered the removal of
discrimination as between shippers. On the other hand,
in some cases the Commission has held that the service
demanded was not a service of transportation and has
refused to order the carrier to perform it." But whatever may have been decided in the past, it is evident that
the growth ofj the practice of making allowances for plant
switching and the lack of uniformity in the practice of
the carriers with respect to this service properly called
for an investigation of the entire situation and the promulgation of appropriate orders to regulate the practice
and prevent performance of a service not within the carrier's transportation obligation. The investigation and
the consequent orders of the Commission were not foreclosed by its earlier decisions. The Commissionis clearly
empowered to determine what is embraced within the
service of transportation and what lies outside that service." Since the Commission finds that the carriers' service of transportation is complete upon delivery to the industries' interchange tracks, and that spotting within the
plants is not included in the service for which the linehaul rates were fixed, there is power to enjoin the performance of that, additional service or the making of an
allowance to the industry which performs it.
able Castings Co. v. Pittsburgh & L. E. R. Co., 51 1. C. C. 537, and
many others.
11 General Electric Case, 14 I. C. C. 237; Crane Iron Works Case,
17 I. C. C. 514, 209 Fed. 238. Compare N. Y. C. & H. R. R. Co.
v. General Electric Co., 219 N. Y. 227, 114 N. E. 115.
12 Los Angeles Switching Case, 234 U. S. 294, 311; Merchants
Warehouse Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 501, 508.

U. S. v. AM. TIN PLATE CO.
402

Opinion of the Court.

Third. What has been said makes it unnecessary further to discuss the question of the adequacy of the Commission's findings. If supported, they are sufficient to
sustain the orders made.
Fourth. The cases were heard by the District Court on
the record made before the Commission. The appellees
challenge the orders as without support in the evidence.
Examination of the record discloses that there is substantial evidence to sustain the Commission's findings.
It is conceded that the line-haul rate covers delivery.
Such rates are usually made to or from an area, sometimes designated a "switching district" or "switching limits." Within that area the carrier holds itself out as
agreeing to deliver freight in its freight depot or at team
tracks or on sidings or spur-tracks owned by an industry.
The practice has come to be uniform that in delivering
a car on a team track the carrier will spot the car at a
point where merchandise of the class contained in the
car is usually and most conveniently unloaded; thus
there are particular team tracks or points where fruit
and vegetables, furniture, etc., etc., are constantly loaded
and unloaded and cars are spotted accordingly. In the
analogous situation where an industry's warehouses or
other facilities are located at given points on a spur or
side-track, the carrier holds itself out- to spot the car at
the point where it is.needed for loading or unloading, as
a warehouse door, a scrap pile, etc., etc.
In the case of a large industry having many points of
loading and unloading throughout its plant, the usual
arrangement is to have lead tracks'or interchange tracks
on which the 6ars are, in the first instance, shifted; thence
they are taken over plant tracks to various buildings and
points and are spotted in accordance with the needs and
convenience of the industry. It is asserted by the appellees that it has become customary to do this spotting

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

on plant tracks as part of the delivery service which the
carrier holds itself out as agreeing to perform without a
charge additional to the line-haul rate. The record fails
to establish any such custom. Carriers in official territory have, for perhaps thirty years, made allowances to
certain industries for doing spotting within their plants.
No uniform rule*as to when such an allowance would be
made has been adopted' although there have been efforts
to agree upon a rule. Apparently the plants most
favored have been steel plants and some carriers have
refused to extend the system of allowances to other than
steel plants. It appears from the record that the making
of allowances has not been governed by any principle and
the cases fall into three general classes: (1) Where the
plant does its own spotting and receives an allowance;
(2) where the railroad does plant spotting; (3) where the
industry does its own spotting and receives no allowance.
No allowances have been granted in New England
territory, in the Southeast, or in the extreme Southwest.
The practice of granting allowances has spread, to some
extent, from official territory across the Mississippi and
to the Northwest but here again there is no uniform rule
about the matter. There is no custom or practice which
has the force of a rule of law that the line-haul rate includes plant spotting service.
The testimony of operating officials of the carriers and
transportation officers of industries was not entirely consistent. Some took the position that it is the obligation
of a carrier to spot a car on plant tracks if the" spotting
involves but a, single uninterrupted movement which can
be made at the carrier's convenience. Many took a
broader view and indicated that in consideration of the
large amount of traffic emanating from and terminating
at a given plant the spotting of cars, in co6peration with
the needs of the plant, would not involve a burden
greater than the delivery of similar cars on team tracks.

U. S. v, AM. TIN PLATE CO.
402

Opinion of the Court.

There was much opinion evidence to the effect that the
cost of spotting a car on plant tracks is no greater than
that of placing a car on team. tracks. There was, however, opinion evidence to the contrary, and facts were
developed with respect to the amount of engine time involved in some of the operations under examination from
which it may fairly be deduced that the industry switching involved greater expense than team track switching.
The Commission properly held that each case must
be decided upon the circumstances disclosed. It accordingly examined the evidence respecting the operations at
the plant of each of the appellees and made its findings
with respect to each upon the evidence in the record.
We find it unnecessary to detail that evidence since it is
summarized in the Commission's reports. It is sufficient
now to say that in every case the Commission found,
upon sufficient evidence, that the cars were, in the first
instance, placed upon lead tracks, interchange tracks or
sidings and subsequently spotted from these tracks; in
each instance the spotting service involved one or more
operations in addition to the placing of the car on interchange tracks, such as moving it to plant scales for
weighing, or some additional burden, such as conformance
to the convenience of the plant, supply of special motive
power required by the plant's layout or trackage or some
other element which called for excessive service greater
than that involved in team track spotting or spotting on
an ordinary industrial siding or spur. We are unable to
say that the findings in respect of the individual plants
lacked support in the evidence. We are, therefore, bound
to accept them and to hold the orders lawful.
The decrees will be reversed and the causes remanded
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE BUTLER is Of

opinion that the commis-

sion's ruling that the carriers' service of transportation is

412

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

301 U. S.

complete upon delivery to the industries' interchange
tracks is not supported by the circumstantial facts found
or by the evidence; that the orders here involved are
based upon a misconstruction of the Act, and that the
decrees of the district court should be affirmed.,

GREAT ATLANTIC & PACIFIC TEA CO.'
GROSJEAN, SUPERVISOR
COUNTS, ET AL.

OF

ET AL. V.

PUBLIC- AC-

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THF, UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

No'. 652.

Argued March 30, 31, 1937.-Decided May 17, 1937.

1. Without contravening the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, a State may separately classify for taxation the conduct of a chain store, and may increase the rate
in proportion to the increase in the number of stores .within
the State, since the opportunities and powers of a chain store
operator become greater with the growth of the number of units
maintained. Fox v. Standard Oil Co., 294 U. S. 87, 100. P. 419.
2. In adjusting the rate for a chain store within the State, the
legislature may take into account the size of the chain to which
the store belongs, by counting the total number of its units
wherever located. P. 419.
3. Act No. 51, of Louisiana, 1934, which lays a progressively increasing rate of taxation on the operation of chain stores within
the State, taking into account all the stores -in the chain, whether
within the State or outside, does not drbitrarily discriminate against
sectional or national chains in favor of intrastate chains. P. 421.
The findings on evidence showed that the competitive advantage of chains increased with the number of component links, and
that the addition of units to a chain increased the competitive
advantage of each store in the chain.
4. That the statute, by taking into account all units indiscriminately in fixing the rate, may fail accurately to adjust the fee
charged to the value of the local privilege taxed, is not a good
reason for adjudging it arbiifrary. P. 423.
5. The subject of the Louisiana tax is the prosecution of a defined
business activity within that State, viz., the conduct of a retail

