OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

301 U. S.

when compared with the vast amount written by stock
companies. This fact in itself may well be a persuasive
reason for not extending to agents of mutual companies
the requirement that they shall not work upon a salary.1"
When to this is added the fact that. ordinarily such agents
work on salary because, in effect, they are the agents of
the policy-holders rather than of in dependent owners
of a stock corporation, it is plain that there is reason
for classifying them differently from agents of stock
companies. In the light of the facts the classification
of the agents of the two sorts of company cannot be said
to be arbitrary or unreasonable, and so to deny the
agents of the stock companies the equal protection of the
laws.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS, MR. JUSTICE STONE*,. and MR.
JUSTICE CARDOZO concur

in this opinion.

SENN v. TILE.LAYERS PROTECTIVE UNION

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF WISCONSIN.

No. 658.

Argued March 31, April 1, 1937.-Decided May 24, 1937.

1. The questions of what constitutes a "labor dispute" within the
meaning of Wisconsin Labor Code, § 103.62, and what acts done by
a labor union are among those declared lawful by § 103.53, are

questions of state law. P. 477.
2 If the end sought by a labor union is not forbidden by the Federal Constitution, the State may authorize the union members to
seek to attain it by combining as pickets. P. 478.
3. In its application to this case, Wisconsin Labor Code, § 103.53,
making lawful the giving of publicity to the existence and facts
of a labor dispute by peaceful picketing in the street, without intimidation or coercion, fraud, violence, breach of the -peace, or
threat thereof, is consistent with the Fourteenth Amendment.
P. 480.
10

Compare Citizens' Telephone Co. v. Fuller, 229 U. S.322.

SENN v. TILE LAYERS UNION.
468

Argument for Appellant.

4. A contractor who carried on a small business of tile setting, performing his contracts partly by the aid of a fevi non-union workmen but largely by the labor of his own hands with the tools of
his trade, and who, not having served an apprenticeship, was ineligible to become a member of the Tile Layers' Union under its
rules, was called upon by the union to unionize his shop and was
willing to do so but for a clause in the agreement proffered to
him, (found important for the protection of union workmen)
which would prevent him as a union employer from participating
longer in the manual labor. Upon his refusal to sign the contract
with this stipulation, the union sent two men to his home, which
was also his place of business, and there they patrolled before it
in the street carrying two banners with inscriptions, one of which
declared that the contractor was "unfair" to the union; while the
other appealed to its readers to let the union install their tile
work. Held that the rights of the contractor under the Fourteenth
Amendment were not infringed by a state law authorizing such
picketing. P.481.
222 Wis. 383, 400; 268 N. W. 270, 872, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree sustaining the dismissal of the
bill in a suit against two labor unions and their agents to
restrain picketing, etc.
Mr. Leon B. Lamfrom for appellant.
The Wisconsin Labor Code, in so far as it denies relief
against picketing and related activities engaged in for the
purpose of compelling an employer to give up his right
to work in his own business, contravenes the guaranty of
the Fourteenth Amendment against deprivation of property without due process. Such activities, when engaged
in by labor unions representing none of the employer's
employees, cannot be rendered lawful by any statute.
The statute bears no relation to the public health or to
the safety or good order of the public. So far as it has
any effect on safety and good order, the tendency is adverse. The welfare served is not that of the public but
that of.a particular class to the detriment of other classes.
The right of a citizen to work in a lawful business in a
lawful manner, the right to follow any of the ordinary

470

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Appellant.

301 U. S.

callings of life, is an inalienable right. A state legislature
cannot deprive citizens of the United States of this right,
and, a fortiori, it cannot be taken away by labor unions
under color of a statute. It is the bounden duty of courts
to protect this right. A man may not barter away his life
or freedom, nor be forced by labor unions to relinquish
them. Truax v. Corrigan, 257 U. S.312; Butchers' Union
v. Crescent City Live Stock Co., 111 U. S. 746,; Hitchman Coal & Coke Co. v. Mitchell, 245 U. S.229; Coppage
v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 1; Truax v., Raich, 239 U. S.33;
Adair v. United States, 208 U. S.161.
Appellant was denied a remedy and was refused injunctive relief solely on the ground that the acts which
he sought to have restrained were acts carried on in the
course of a "labor dispute" within the meaning of the
Wisconsin Labor Code. Appellant, under the Constitution of Wisconsin and the statutes promulgated pursuant thereto, but for the Wisconsin Labor Code as construed by the Supreme Court of Wisconsin, would have
been accorded the relief that he sought. He is denied
that relief because of the fact that appellees happen to
be labor unions having in their membership employees of
others in the same line of business, and because he happens to be an employer.
Had the appellees not been labor unions representing
workers in the industry and had appellant not been an
employer, the activities of the appellees would have
been restrained.
No dispute was here involved concerning wages, hours
or working conditions of any of appellant's employees.
The sole dispute was concerning the appellant's right to
work in his own business with his own hands.
The classification established by the Labor Code,
whereby; relief is denied against labor unions which would
be granted against others, and whereby relief is denied
to an employer which would be granted to an individual

SENN v. TILE LAYERS UNION.
468

Amici Curiae.

employing no one, is wholly arbitrary, capricious and
unreasonable.
No classifications can reasonably be made and sustained which will give any group the right to picket, boycott and molest an individual for the purpose of forcing
him, against his 'will, to agree not to work with his own
hands in his own business. No statute sanctioning such
activity for such a purpose, by a group neither employees nor former employees of the employer and not representing
any of them, can be sustained under any theory
of the police
power. Truax v. Corrigan, 257 U. S.
312;
Opinion of the Justices, 275 Mass. 580; Opinion of the
Justices, 86 N. H. .597.
Even if the dispute concerned wages, hours and
working conditions of appellant's own employees, the
statute, as construed, would nevertheless violate the
Fourteenth Amendment if it denied relief against such
activities, upon the part of persons who were neither the
appellant's employees nor his former employees, nor their
representatives.
As to there having been a "labor dispute," see American Furniture Co. v. Chauffeurs, Teamsters & Helpers
Union, 222 Wis. 338; Lauf v. Skinner & Co., 82 F. (2d)
68; United Electric Coal Cos. v. Rice, 80 F. (2d) 1;.
Safeway Stores, Inc. v. Retail Clerk's Union, 184 Wash.
322; 218-220 Market Street Corp. v. Delicatessen Union,
118 N. J. Eq. 448.
Mr. Joseph A. Padway for appellees.
By leave of Court, Messrs. Francis Biddle, Osmond K.
Fraenkel, Lloyd K. Garrison, Nathan Greene, and V.
Henry Rothschild, 2nd, filed a brief on behalf of the
American Civil Liberties Union and the International
Juridical Assn., as amici curiae, urging affirmance of the
judgment below.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

301 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case presents the question whether the provisions
of the Wisconsin Labor Code which authorize giving publicity to labor disputes, declare peaceful picketing and
patrolling lawful and prohibit granting of an injunction
against such conduct, violate, as here construed and applied, the due process clause or equal protection clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment.
The Labor Code occupies §§ 103.51 to 103.63 of the
Wisconsin Statutes, 1935 (Wis. Laws, 1931, c. 376; Laws,
1935, c. 551, § 5). But only the following provisions of
§ 103.53 are directly involved on this appeal:
"(1) The following acts, whether performed singly or
in concert, shall be legal:
"(e) Giving publicity to and obtaining or communicating information regarding the existence of, or the facts
involved in, any dispute, whether by advertising, speaking,
patrolling any public street or place where any person or
persons may lawfully be, without intimidation or coercion,
or by any other method not involving fraud, violence,
breach of the peace, or threat thereof."
"(1) Peaceful picketing or patrolling, whether engaged
in singly or in numbers. shall be legal.'
"(2) No court, nor any judge or judges thereof, shall
have jurisdiction to issue any restraining 6rder or temporary or permanent injunction which, in specific or general terms, prohibits any person or persons from doing,
whether singly or inconcert, any of the foregoing acts."

I Subsections (h), (i) and (k) are likewise relevant to the present
issue, as supplementing subsections (e) and (1), but do not require
special discussion.

SENN v. TILE LAYERS UNION.
468

47i

Opinion of the Court.

On December 28, 1935, Senn brought this suit in the
Circuit Court of Milwaukee County, against Tile Layers
Protective Union, Local No. 5, Tile Layers Helpers Union,
Local No. 47, and their business agents, seeking an injunction to restrain picketing, and particularly "publishing, stating or proclaiming that the plaintiff is unfair to
organized labor or to the defendant unions"; and also to
restrain some other acts which have since been discontinued, and are not now material. The defendants answered; and the case was heard upon extensive evidence.
The trial court found the following facts.
The journeymen tile layers at Milwaukee were, to a
large extent, members of Tile Layers Protective Union,
Local No. 5, and the helpers, members of Tile Layers
Helpers Union, Local No. 47. Senn was engaged at Milwaukee in the tile contracting business under the name
of "Paul Senn & Co., Tile Contracting." His business
was a small one, conducted, in the main, from his residence, with a showroom elsewhere. He employed one or
two journeymen tile layers and one or two helpers, depending upon the amount of work he had contracted to
do at the time. But, working with his own hands with
tools of the trade, he performed personally on the jobs
much work of a character commonly done by a tile layer
or a helper. Neither Senn, nor any of his employees, was
at the time this suit was begun a member of either union,
and neither had any contractual relations with them.
Indeed, Senn could not become a member of the tile layers
union, since its constitution and rules require, among
other things, that a journeyman tile setter shall have acquired his practical experience through an apprenticeship of not less than three years, and Senn had not served
such an apprenticeship.
For some years the tile laying industry had been in a
demoralized state because of lack of building operations;
and members of the union had been in competition with

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

non-union tile layers and helpers in their effort to secure
work. The tile contractors by whom members of the
unions were employed had entered into collective bargaining agreements with the unions governing wages,
hours and working conditions. The wages paid by the
union contractors had for some time been higher than
those paid by Senn to his employees.
Because of the peculiar composition of the industry,
which consists of employers with small numbers of employees, the unions had found it necessary for the protection of the individual rights of their members in the
prosecution of their trade to require all employers agreeing to conduct a union shop to assent to the following
provision:
"Article III. It is definitely understood that no individual, member of a partnership or corporation engaged
in the Tile Contracting Business shall work with the
tools or act as Helper but that the installation of all materials claimed by the party of the second part as listed
under the caption 'Classification of Work' in this agreement, shall be done by journeymen members of Tile
Layers Protective Union Local #5."
The unions endeavored to induce Senn to become a
union contractor; and requested'him to execute an agreement in form substantially identical with that entered
into by the Milwaukee contractors who employ union
men. Senn expressed a willingness to execute the agreement provided Article III was eliminated. The union
declared that this was impossible; that the inclusion of
.the provision was essential to the unions' interest in
maintaining wage standards and spreading work among
their members; and, moreover, that to eliminate Article
III. from the contract with Senn would discriminate
against existing union contractors, all of whom had signed
agreements containing the Article. As the unions declared its elimination impossible, Senn refused to sign

SENN v. TILE LAYERS UNION.
468

Opinion of the Court.

the agreement and unionize his shop. Because of his refusal, the unions picketed his place of business. The
picketing was peaceful, without violence, and without
any unlawful act. The evidence was that the pickets
carried one banner with the inscription "P. Senn Tile
Company is unfair to the Tile Layers Protective Union,"
another with the inscription "Let the Union tile layer
install your tile work." 2
The trial court denied the injunction and dismissed the
bill. On the findings made, it ruled that the controversy
was "a labor dispute" within the meaning of § 103.62;
that the picketing, done solely in furtherance. of the dispute, was "lawful" under § 103.53; that it was not unlawful for the defendants
"to advise, notify or persuade, without fraud, violence or
threat thereof, any person or persons, of the existence of
said labor dispute; . . .
"That the agreement submitted by the defendants to
the plaintiff, setting forth terms and conditions prevailing
in that portion of the industry which is unionized, is
2The

complaint as to certain action of defendants, other than the

picketing was disposed of by defendants'. agreement to discontinue
the same, and is not now in question. It had been shown that, with
a view to picketing Senn's jobs, the un*ions had caused his automobile to be followed from his place of business to the jobs where he
and his men were working. It had also been shown, that, some
months earlier, the unions had sent letters to local architects and
contractors requesting them'not to patronize Senn because he was
conducting a non-union shop and threatening to picket them if they
did so; but that there had been no picketing of any architect or
contractor and no such steps had been taken by the unions. Through
counsel, the unions agreed: (1) that thereafter they would not pursue plaintiff's automobile from his residence to his jobs; and (2)
that they would refrain from sending any further. letters to architects or contractors, and would not inaulge in any acts or conduct
referred to in the letters theretofore sent. The court treated this
agreement by counsel as disposing of the claim for relief on this
ground.

476

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

sought by the defendants for the purpose of promoting
their welfare and enhancing their own interests in their
trade
and craft as workers in the industry.
"That
Article III of said agreement is a reasonable
and
lawful rule adopted by the defendants out of the necessities of employment within the industry and for the protection of themselves as workers and craftsmen in the
industry."
Senn appealed to the Supreme Court of the State, which
affirmed the judgment of the trial court and denied a
motion for rehearing, two judges dissenting. (222 Wis.
383, 400; 268 N. W. 270, 872.) The case is here on appeal.
First. The defendants moved to dismiss the appeal for
want of jurisdiction. They contend that the federal question presented is not substantial. And friends of the court
suggest that the appeal should be dismissed because the
decision below was based upon non-federal grounds, or
that there was an alternative, independent non-federal
ground broad enough to sustain the judgment; that the
challenge here is not to a statute, but to a judicial decision based upon principles of general law which have
been approved by some judges and disapproved by
others; I and that there is nothing to show that the provisions of the Wisconsin Labor Code here questioned are
not merely declaratory of the common law of Wisconsin
as it existed prior to the statute. But it sufficiently appears that the provisions of the Labor Code were relied
upon; that their validity under the Fourteenth Amendment was duly challenged below; and that the rulings by
the state courts were based ultimately on the Labor Code.
3 Compare Zaat v. Building Trades Council, 172 Wash. 445; 20
P. (2d) 589; Roraback v. Mo'tion Picture Operators Union, 140
Minn. 481; 168 N. W. 766; Hughes v. Motion Picture Operators
Union, 282 Mo. 304; 221 S. W. 95; Fink v. Schwartz, 28 Ohio (N. P.)
407. See Thompson v. Boekhout, 249 App. Div. 77; 291 N. Y. Supp.
572.

SENN v. TILE LAYERS UNION.
468

Opinion of the Court.

Whether the statute as construed and applied violates
the Fourteenth Amendment presents issues never expressly passed upon by this Court. We deny the motion.
to dismiss.
Second. The hearings below were concerned mainly
with questions of state law. Senn insisted there that the
statute was no defense, because the controversy was not
a "labor dispute" within the meaning of § 103.62.' The
courts ruled that the controversy was a "labor dispute";
and that the acts done- by the defendant were among
those declared "lawful" by § 103.53. See also American
FurnitureCo. v. Chauffeurs, Teamsters & Helpers Union,
228 Wis. 338; 268 N. W. 250. Those issues involved the
construction and application of the statute and the Constitution of the State. As to them the judgment of its
highest court is conclusive. The question for our decision
is whether the statute, as applied to the facts found, took
Senn's liberty or property or denied him equal protection
of the laws in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Senn does not claim broadly that the Federal Constitution prohibits a State from authorizing publicity and
peaceful picketing. His claim of invalidity is rested on
the fact that he refused to unionize his shop solely because the union insisted upon the retention of Article III.
He contends that the right to work in his business with
his own hands is a right guaranteed by the Fourteenth
Amendment and that the State may not authorize unions
That section provides:
"The term 'labor dispute' includes any controversy concerning
terms or conditions of employment, or concerning the association or
representation of persons in negotiating, fixing, maintaining, changing, or seeking to arrange terms or conditions of employment, or
concerning employment relations, or any other controversy arising
out of the respective interests of employer and employe, regardless
of whether or not the disputants stand in the proximate relation of
employer and employe."
4

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

to employ publicity and picketing to induce him to refrain from exercising it.
The unions concede that Senn, so long as he conducts
a nonunion shop, has the right to work with his
hands and tools. He may do so, as freely as he may work
his employees longer hours and at lower wages than the
union rules permit. He may bid for contracts at a low
figure based upon low wages and long hours. But the
unions contend that, since Senn's exercise of the right to
do so is harmful to the interests of their members, they
may seek by legal means to induce him to agree to unionize his shop and to refrain from exercising his right to
work with his own hands. The judgment of the highest
court of the state establishes that both the means employed and the end sought by the unions are legal
under its law. The question for our determination is
whether either the means or the end sought is forbidden
by the Federal Constitution.
Third. Clearly the means which the statute authorizes-picketing and publicity-are not prohibited by the
Fourteenth Amendment. Members of a union might,
without special statutory authorization by a State, make
known the facts of a labor dispute, for freedom of speech
is guaranteed by the Federal Constitution. The State
may, in the exercise of its police power, regulate the
methods and means of publicity as well as the use of
public streets. If the end sought by the unions is not
forbidden by the Federal Constitution the State may
authorize working men to seek to attain it by combining
as pickets, just as it permits capitalists and employers to
combine in other ways to attain their desired economic
ends. The Legislature of Wisconsin has declared that
"peaceful picketing and patrolling" on the public streets
and places shall be permissible "whether engaged in
singly or in numbers" provided this is done "without
intimidation or coercion" and free from "fraud, violence.

SENN v. TILE LAYERS UNION.
468

Opinion of the Court.

breach of the peace or threat thereof." The statute provides that the picketing must be peaceful; and that term
as used implies not only absence of violence but absence
of any unlawful act. It precludes the intimidation of
customers. It precludes any form of physical obstruction
or interference with the plaintiff's business. It authorizes
giving publicity to the existence of the dispute "whether
by advertising, patrolling any public streets or places
where any person or persons may lawfully be"; but precludes misrepresentation of the facts of the controversy.
And it declares that "nothing herein shall be construed
to legalize a secondary boycott." See Duplex PrintingCo.
v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443, 466. Inherently, the means
authorized are clearly unobjectionable. In declaring
such picketing permissible Wisconsin has put this means
of publicity on a par with advertisements in the press.
The state courts found that the unions observed the
limitations prescribed by the statute. The conduct complained of is patrol with banners by two or four pickets.
Compare American Steel Foundries v. Tri-City Central
Trades Council, 257 U. S. 184, 207. The picketing was
peaceful. The publicity did not involve a misrepresentation of fact; nor was any claim made below that relevant
facts were suppressed. Senn did not contend that it was
untruthful to characterize him as "unfair," if the requirement that he refrain from working with his own
hands was a lawful one. He did not ask that the banners be required to carry a.fuller statement of the facts.
Compare American Furniture Co. v. Chauffeurs, Teamsters & Helpers Union, 222 Wis. 338, 340, 347; 268 N. W.
250, 251, 255. Moreover, it was confessedly open to
Senn to disclose the facts in such manner and in such
detail as he deemed desirable, and on the strength of the
facts to seek the patronage of the public.
Truax v. Corrigan, 257 U. S. 312, is not applicable.
The statute there in question was deemed to have been

480

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

applied to legalize conduct which was not simply peaceful
picketing, not "lawful persuasion or inducing," not "a
mere appeal to the sympathetic aid of would-be customers
by a simple statement of the fact of the strike and a request to withhold patronage." It consisted of libelous attacks and abusive epithets against the employer and his
friends; libelous and disparaging statements against the
plaintiff's business; threats and intimidation directed
against customers and employees. The means employed,
in other words, were deemed to constitute "an admitted
tort," conduct unlawful prior to the statute challenged.
See pp. 327-8, 337, 346. In the present case the only
means authorized by the statute and in fact resorted to
by the unions have been peaceful and accompanied by no
unlawful act. It follows, that if the end sought is constitutional-if the unions may constitutionally induce
Senn to agree to refrain from exercising the right to work
in his business with his own hands, their acts were
lawful.
Fourth. The end sought by the unions is not unconstitutional. Article III, which the unions seek to have
Senn accept, was found by the state courts to be not
arbitrary or capricious, but a reasonable rule "adopted by
the defendants out of the necessities of employment
within the industry and for the protection of themselves
as workers and craftsmen in the industry." That finding
is amply supported by the evidence. There is no basis
for a suggestion that the unions' request that Senn refrain from working with his own hands, or their employment of picketing and publicity, was malicious; or
that there was a desire to injure Senn. The sole purpose
of the picketing was to acquaint the public with the facts
and, by gaining its support, to induce Senn to unionize his
shop. There was no effort to induce Senn to do an unlawful thing. There was no violence, no force was applied, no molestation or interference, no coercion. There

SENN v. TILE LAYERS UNION.
468

Opinion of the Court.

was only the persuasion incident to publicity. As the
Supreme Court of Wisconsin said:
"Each of the contestants is desirous of the advantage
of doing business in the community where he or they
operate. He is not obligated to yield to the persuasion
exercised upon him by respondents. . . .The respondents
do not question that it is appellants' right to own his
own business and earn his living in any lawful manner
which he chooses to adopt. What they are doing is asserting their rights under the acts of the Legislature for
the purpose of enhancing their opportunity to acquire
work for themselves and those whom they represent ...
The respondents' act of peaceful picketing is a lawful
form of appeal to the public to turn its patronage from
appellant to the concerns in which the welfare of the
members of the unions is bound up."
The unions acted, and had the right to act as they did,
to protect the interests of their members against the
harmful effect upon them of Senn's action. Compare
American Steel Foundries v. Tri-City Central Trades
Council, supra, 208, 209. Because his action was harmful,
the fact that none of Senn's employees was a union member, or sought the union's aid, is immaterial.
The laws of Wisconsin, as declared by its highest
court, permits unions to endeavor to induce an employer,
when unionizing his shop, to agree to refrain from working in his business with his own hands--so to endeavor
although none of his employees is a member of a union.
Whether it was wise for the State to permit the unions
to do so is a question of its public policy-not our concern. The Fourteenth Amendment does not prohibit it.
Fifth. There is nothing in the Federal Constitution
which forbids unions from competing with non-union
concerns for customers by means of picketing as freely
as one merchant competes with another by means of
advertisements in the press, by circulars, or by his win146212"-37-31

482

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

dow display. Each member of the unions, as well as
Senn, has the right to strive to earn his living. Senn
seeks to do so through exercise of his individual skill and
planning. The union members seek to do so through
combination. Earning a living is dependent upon securing work; and securing work is dependent upon public
favor. To win the patronage of the public each may
strive by legal means. Exercising its police power, Wisconsin has declared that in a labor dispute peaceful
picketing and truthful publicity are means legal for
unions. It is true that disclosure of the facts of the labor
dispute may be annoying to Senn even if the method
and means employed in giving the publicity are inherently unobjectionable. But such annoyance, like that
often suffered from publicity in other connections, is not
an invasion of the liberty guaranteed by the Constitution.
Compare Pennsylvania Railroad Co. v. United States
Railroad Labor Board, 261 U. S. 72.' It is true, also, that
disclosure of the facts may prevent Senn from securing
jobs which he hoped to get. But a hoped-for job is not
property guaranteed by the Constitution. And the diversion of it to a competitor is not an invasion of a
constitutional right.
Sixth. It is contended that in prohibiting an injunction the statute denied to Senn equal protection of the
laws, and Truax v. Corrigan,Supra, is invoked. But the
issue suggested by plaintiff does not arise. For we hold
that the provisions of the Wisconsin statute which authorized the conduct of the unions are constitutional.
The State has, of course, power to afford protection to interests
of personality, such as "the right of privacy." The protection by
decision or statute- of such interests of personality, rests on other
considerations than are here involved. See Moreland, The Right of
Privacy Today (1931) 19 Ky. L. J. 101; Lisle, The Right of Privacy,
id., 137; Green, The Right of Privacy (1932) 27 ill. L. Rev. 237, 238.

SENN v. TILE LAYERS UNION.
468

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

One has no constitutional right to a "remedy" against
the lawful conduct of another.
Affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE BUTLER,

dissenting.

Plaintiff is a tile layer and has long been accustomed
to work as a helper and mechanic in that trade. The
question presented is whether, consistently with the due
process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth
Amendment, the State may by statute authorize or make
it lawful for labor unions to adopt and carry into effect
measures intended and calculated to prevent him from
obtaining or doing that work. The decision just announced answers that question in the affirmative. The
facts are not in controversy. Let them disclose the concrete application of the legislation now held valid.
Plaintiff lives and works in Milwaukee. Since the latter part of 1931 he has been engaged in performing small
tile laying jobs. He has personally performed almost half
the manual labor required. He usually employs a tile
setter -and helper; occasionally he has more than one of
each. He has never been a member of the tile layers
union. Though a competent mechanic in that trade, he
is excluded from membership because he takes contracts
and because he has not served the apprenticeship required
by union rules. In 1935 he had about 40 jobs. His net
income was $1,500 of which $750 was attributed to his
own labor. The balance, constituting his profit as contractor, was not enough to support him and family.
Defendant Local No. 5 is composed of tile layers. Its
membership, 112 in 1929, had fallen to 41 at the time of
the trial in January, 1936. Early in 1935 it proffered to
all local contractors including plaintiff a contract fixing
wages, hours and the like. About half of them signed;
the others did not. It contained the following: "It is
definitely understood that no individual, member of a

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
BUTLER, J., dissenting:

301 U. S.

partnership or corporation engaged in the Tile Contracting
Business shall work with the tools or act as Helper, but
that the installation of all materials claimed by the party.
of the second part [Local No. 5] as listed under the caption 'Classification of Work' in this agreement, shall be
done by journeymen members of Tile Layers Protective
Union Local #5."
Because of that provision plaintiff declined to sign. But repeatedly he declared to representatives of the union that he was willing to employ its
members and to comply with its rules as to wages, hours
and working conditions; he assured them that, when his
business was sufficient to permit, he would refrain from
manual labor, and explained that without personally
working he could not now continue in business. Conceding the truth of that statement, the union nevertheless
persistently declined to modify its demands.
The president of Local No. 5 testified that, if plaintiff
did not sign the contract, it would do everything "to
harass and put things in his way"; that it intended to
announce to the world that -he is a non-union contractor
and on that account should not be patronized, to picket
his place of business, to ascertain where he had jobs and
to picket them and in that way bring pressure to bear
upon him to become a union contractor, to put him in the
category of 'a non-union contractor unless he agrees to
lay aside the tools of the trade. The program so declared corresponds with what the unions had already
done against him.
In July, 1935, Local No. 5 sent to all contractors and
architects letters stating: "Some time ago we presented
to each individual tile contractor in the city a copy of
our new agreement [this refers to the one plaintiff was
called on to sign] in which we specified what constitutes
a bona fide contractor and who should install the work.
Not having heard from some of these so called tile contractors in a given time, we beg of you to contact the

SENN v. TILE LAYERS UNION.
468

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

list of fair contractors listed below in awarding the tile
work in your building operations. If in two weeks time
anyone outside this list is awarded tile work we will then
picket such jobs, contractors' or architects' offices, or employ other lawful means to help us in our fight to better
the conditions of our trade." Plaintiff's name was not on
the list approved by the union. Therefore the letter
meant that, in order to prevent him from working, the

union would apply the described pressure to him, his
work, the jobs of which his tile laying was a part, the
contractors and the architects from whom he got work.
Commencing December 6, 1935, it put in front of his
house two men carrying signs, one being: "P. Senn Tile
Company [meaning the plaintiff] is unfair to the Tile
Layers Protective Union," and the other: "Let the Union
tile layers install your tile work." And regularly from
eight in the morning until noon and from one to four
in the afternoon it carried on picketing of that sort, sometimes using four man. They refrained from speaking to
plaintiff or others and committed no breach of the peace.
In that sense they carried on "peaceful picketing." The
union sent men in automobiles to follow plaintiff when
going from his home to his work, and instructed all its
members to discover where he had jobs in order to picket
them.
To justify the elimination of plaintiff, counsel told the
court that "because of the demoralized condition of the
trade, the union decides it does not want a contractor,
whether he be skilled in the trade or unskilled, to work
with the tools of the trade with the men because there
is not enough work to go around." And on the witness
stand the president of Local No. 5 expressed the idea that,
if the contractors did not work, members of the union
would be taken off relief.
The trial court found the picketing peaceful and lawful; it did not pass on other acts constituting pressure

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
BUTUR, J., dissenting.

301 U. S.

put on plaintiff. But the unions themselves deemed unlawful much that they had threatened and done to coerce
him. The findings say that "the defendants, by their
counsel, have stated in open court that they will not
pursue the automobile of the plaintiff from his place of
business to his jobs; that they will refrain from sending
any further letters to architects or contractors, and will
not indulge in any acts or conduct referred to in said
letters towards said contractors and architects." The
trial court held plaintiff not entitled to relief. The supreme court affirmed. 222 Wis. 383; 268 N. W. 270.
Following its decision in American Furniture Co. v.
Chauffeurs, Teamsters & Helpers Union, 222 Wis. 338;
268 N. W. 250, construing § 103.62, it held that within
the meaning of that section a "labor dispute" existed
between plaintiff and defendants and that under § 103.53
the picketing was legal.
The clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment invoked by
plaintiff are: "No State shall

.

.

.

deprive any per-

son of life, liberty, or property without due process of
law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the
equal protection of the laws." Our decisions lhave made
it everywhere known that these provisions forbid state
action which would take from the individual the right
to engage in common occupations of life, and that they
assure equality of opportunity to all under like circumstances. Lest the importance or wisdom of these great
declarations be forgotten or neglected, there should be
frequent recurrence to decisions of this court that expound and apply them.
"While this Court has not attempted to define with
exactness the liberty thus guaranteed, the term has received much consideration and some of the included
th'ings have been definitely stated. Without doubt, it
denotes not merely freedom from bodily restraint but
also the right of the individual to contract, to engage

SENN v. TILE LAYERS UNION.
468

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

in any of the common occupations of life, to acquire useful knowledge, to marry, estalish a home and bring up
children, to worship God according to the dictates of his
own conscience, and generally to enjoy those privileges
long recognized at common law as essential to the orderly
pursuit of happiness by free men." Meyer v. Nebraska,
262 U. S. 390, 399.
"The right to follow any of the common occupations
of life is an inalienable right. It was formulated as "Such
under the phrase 'pursuit of happiness' in the Declaration of Independence, which commenced with the fundamental proposition that 'all men are created equal, that
they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty and the
pursuit of happiness.' . . . I hold that the liberty of
pursuit-the right to follow any of the ordinary callings
of life-is one of the privileges of a citizen of the United
States." Concurring opinion of Mr. Justice Bradley in
Butchers' Union Co. v. Crescen*t City Co., 111 U. S. 746,
762, approvingly quoted in Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165
U. S. 578, 589.
"Included in the right of personal liberty and the right
of private property-partaking of the nature of eachis the right to make contracts for the acquisition of property. Chief among such contracts is that of personal
employment by which labor and other services are exchanged for money or other forms of property. If this
right be struck down or arbitrarily interfered with, there
is a substantial impairment of liberty in the long-established constitutional sense. The right is as essential to
the laborer as to the capitalist, to the poor as to the rich;
for the vast majority of persons have no other honest
way to begin to acquire property, save by working for
money." Coppage v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 1, 14.
"It requires no argument to show that the right to
work for a living in the common occupations of the com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

301 U. S.

munity is of the very essence of the personal freedom
and opportunity that it was the purpose of the amendments to secure." Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33, 41.
"Under that amendment, nothing is more clearly settled than that it is beyond the power of a state, 'under
the guise of protecting the public, arbitrarily [to] interfere with private business or prohibit lawful occupations
or impose unreasonable and unnecessary restrictions upon
them.'" New State Ice Co. v. Liebmann, 285 U. S. 262,
278.
"The Fourteenth

Amendment

. .

. undoubtedly in-

tended not only that there should be no arbitrary deprivation of life or liberty, or arbitrary spoliation of
property, but that equal protection and security should
be given to all under like circumstances in the enjoyment
of their personal and civil rights; that all persons should
be equally entitled to pursue their happiness and acquire and enjoy property; that they should have like
access to the courts of the country for the protection of
their persons and property, the prevention and redress
of wrongs, and the, enforcement of contracts; that no impediment should be interposed to the pursuits of any one
except as applied to the same pursuits by others under
like circumstances; that no greater burdens should be laid
upon one than are laid upon others in the same calling
and condition ...

"

Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S.

27, 31.
"For, the very idea that one man may be compelled
to hold his life, or the means of living, or any materitl
right essential to the enjoyment of life, at the mere will
of another, seems to be intolerable in any country where
freedom prevails, as being the essence of slavery itself."
Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, 370.
. The legislative power of the State can only be exerted
in subordination to the fundamental principles of right
and justice which the guaranties of the due process and

SENN v. TILE LAYERS UNION.
468

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment
are intended to preserve. Arbitrary or capricious exercise of that power whereby a wrongful and highly injurious invasion of rights of liberty and property is
sanctioned, stripping one of all remedy, is wholly at
variance with those principles. Truax v. Corrigan, 257
U. S. 312, 327.
It may be assumed that the picketing, upheld in virtue
of the challenged statute, lawfully might be employed in
a controversy between employer and employees for the
purpose of persuading the employer to increase pay, etc.,
and dissuading non-union workers from displacing union
members. The right of workers, parties to a labor dispute, to strike and picket peacefully to better their condition does not infringe any right of the employer.
American Foundries v. Tri-City Council, 257 U. S. 184,
209. United Mine Workers v. Coronado Coal Co., 259
U. S. 344, 386. Wolff Co. v. Industrial Court, 262 U. S.
522, 540, 541. Dorchy v. Kansas, 264 U. S. 286, 289.
But strikes or peaceful picketing for unlawful purposes
are beyond any lawful sanction. The object being unlawful; the means and end are alike condemned. Dorchy
v. Kansas, 272 U. S. 306, 311. Toledo, A. A. & N. M.
Ry. Co. v. Pennsylvania Co., 54 Fed. 730, 737-739. And
see Truax v. Corrigan,supra, 327; Exchange Bakery &
Restaurant v. Rifkin, 245 N. Y. 260, 262-263; 157 N. E.
130.
The object that defendants seek to attain is an unlawful one.
Admittedly, it is to compel plaintiff to quit work as
helper or tile layer. Their purpose is not to establish on
his jobs betterwages, hours, or conditions. If permitted,
plaintiff would employ union men and adhere to union
requirements as to pay and hours. But, solely because he
works, the unions refuse to allow him to unionize and
carry on his business. By picketing, the unions would

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
BUTLER, J., dissenting.

301 U S.

prevent him working on jobs he obtained from others
and so destroy that business. Then, by enforcement of
their rules they would prevent him from working as a
journeyman for employers approved by the union or
upon any job employing union men. Adhering to the
thought that there is not enough work to go around,
unquestionably the union purpose is to eliminate him
from all tile laying work. And highly confirmatory of
that purpose is the failure of the contract proposed by
the union to permit plaintiff personally to do work in
the performance of jobs undertaken by him for prices
based upon union rates of pay for all labor, including his
own.

The principles governing competition between rival
individuals seeking contracts or opportunity to work as
journeymen cannot reasonably be applied in this case.
Neither the union nor its members take tile laying contracts. Their interests are confined to employment of
helpers and layers, their wages, hours of service, etc. The
contest is not between unionized and other contractors
or between one employer and another. The immediate
issue is between the unions and plaintiff in respect of his
right to work in the performance of his own jobs. If as to
that they shall succeed, then will come the enforcement of
their rules which make him ineligible to work as a journeyman. It cannot be said that, if he should be prevented
from laboring as helper or layer, the work for union men
to do would be increased. The unions exclude their inembers from jobs taken by non-union employers. About half
the tile contractors are not unionized. More than 60
percent of the tile layers are non-union men. The value
of plaintiff's labor as helper and tile layer is very smallabout $750 per year. Between union members and plaintiff there ig no immediate or direct competition. If under
existing circumstances there ever can be any, it must come
about through a chain of unpredictable events making

SENN v. TILE LAYERS UNION.
468

BUTLER,

J., dissenting..

its occurrence a mere matter of speculation. The interest
of the unions in the manual labor done by plaintiff is so
remote, indirect and minute that they have no standing
as competitors. Berry v. Donovan, 188 Mass. 353, 358;
74 N. E. 603. Under the circumstances here disclosed, the
conduct of the unions was arbitrary and oppressive.
Roraback v. Motion Picture Operators Union, 140 Minn.
481, 486; 168 N. W. 766. Hughes v. Motion Picture Operators Union, 282 Mo. 304; 221 S. W. 95.
Moreover, the picketing was unlawful because the signs
used constitute a misrepresentation of the facts. One of
them declared plaintiff "unfair" to the tile layers union
and, upon the basis of that statement, the other sign
solicited tile work for union tile layers. There was given
neither definition of the word nor any fact on which the
accusation was based. By the charge made, there was
implied something unjust or inequitable in his attitude
toward labor unions: But there was no foundation of fact
for any such accusation. There was no warrant for characterizing him as ".unfair" or opposed to any legitimate
purpose of the tile layers union or as unjust to union men.
There is no escape from the conclusion that the unions
intended by the picketing they carried on to misrepresent
plaintiff in respect of his relation to, or dealing with,
the tile layers union and by that means to deprive him of
his occupAtion. The burden may not justly be held to be
on him, by counter-picketing or otherwise, to refute or
explain the baseless charge.
The judgment of the state court, here affirmed, violates
a principle of fundamental law: That no man may be
compelled to hold his life or the means of living at the
mere will of others. Yick Wo v. Hopkins, ubi supra. The
state statute, construed to make lawful the employment of
the means here shown to deprive plaintiff of his right to
work or to make lawful the picketing carried on in this
case, is repugnant to the due process and equal protection

492

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. Truax v. Corrigan, supra, 328.
I am of opinion that the judgment should be reversed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER,

NOLDS, and MR. JUSTICE

MR. JUSTICE McREY-

SUTHERLAND

join in this dissent.

DUKE v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 907.

Argued May 4, 1937.-Decided May 24, 1937.

1. A misdemeanor for which the punishment prescribed is not infamous but may exceed $500 fine and six months' imprisonment
without hard labor, may be prosecuted by information. P. 493.
2. So held of Crim. Code, § 137, prescribing a fine of not more than
$1,000, or imprisonment of not more than six months, or both,
for the offense of attempting to influence a juror by a written communication. P. 493.
3. The authority to prosecute by information is not limited to offenses punishable as defined in the proviso added to Cr. Code,
§ 335 by Act of Dec. 16, 1930. P. 494.

Response to questions certified by the court below with
respect to a case on appeal from a criminal conviction.
Mr. Jesse C. Duke, pro se.
Mr. William W. Barron, with whom Solicitor General

Reed and Assistant Attorney General McMahon were
on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.

The court below, being divided and in doubt, and desiring the instruction and advice of this court, has certified

the following questions of law:

