HELVERING v. DAVIS.

619

Syllabus.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, ET AL. v. DAVIS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 910. Argued May 5,1937.-Decided May 24, 1937.
1. The Court abstains from dismissing, sua sponte, as not properly
within equity jurisdiction, a bill by a shareholder to restrain his
corporation from making the tax payments and the deductions
from wages required by Title VIII of the Social Security Act of
August 14, 1935, the bill alleging that the exactions are void
and that compliance will subject the corporation and its shareholders to irreparable damage. P. 639.
The corporation acquiesced. The Collector and Commissioner
of Internal Revenue intervened in the court below, defended on
the merits, brought the case to this Court by certiorari, and here
expressly waived a defense under R. S. § 3224 and any objection
upon the ground of adequate legal remedy, and urged that the
validity of the taxes be determined.
2. The scheme of "Federal Old-Age Benefits" set up by Title II of
the Social Security Act does not contravene the limitations of the
Tenth Amendment. P. 640.
3. Congress may spend money in aid of the "general welfare."
P. 640.
4. In drawing the line between what is "general" welfare, and what
is particular, the determination of Congress must be respected by
the courts, unless it be plainly arbitrary. P. 640.
3. The concept of "general welfare" is not static but adapts itself to
the crises and necessities of the times. P. 641.
6. The problem of security for the aged, like, the general problem
of unemployment, is national as well as local. Cf. Steward Machine
Co. v. Davis, ante p. 548. P. 644.
There is ground to believe that laws and resources of the separate
States unaided, can not deal with this problem effectively. State
governments are reluctant to place such heavy burdens upon their
residents lest they incur economib disadvantages as compared with
neighbors or competitors; and a system of old age pensions established in one State encourages immigration of needy persons from
other States which have rejected such systems. P. 644.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Petitioners.

301 U. S.

7. When money is spent to promote the general welfare, the concept
of welfare or the opposite is shaped by Congress, not the States.
P. 645.
8. Title II of the Social Security Act provides for "Federal Old-Age
Benefits" for persons who have attained the age of065. It creates
an "Old-Age Reserve Account" in the Treasury land authorizes
future appropriations to provide for the required old-age payments,
but in itself neither appropriates money nor brings any money
into the Treasury. Title VIII imposes an "excise" tax on em-"
ployers, to be paid "with respect to having individuals in their
employ," measured on the wages, and an "income tax on employees," measured on their wages, to be collected by their employers by deduction from wages. These taxes are not applicable
to certain kinds of employment, including agricultural labor,
domestic service, service for the national or state governments,
and service performed by persons who have attained the age of
65 years. Held:
(1) Title II being valid, there is no occasion to inquire whether
Title VIII must fall if Title II were void. P. 645.
(2) The tax upon employers is a valid excise or duty upon the
relation of employment. Steward Machine Co. v. Davis, ante
p. 548. P. 645.
(3) The tax is not invalid as a result of its exemptions. Steward
Machine Co. v. Davis, ante, p. 548. P. 646.
89 F. (2d) 393, reversed.

CERTIOABI, post, p. 674, to review the reversal of a
decree of the District Court denying an injunction and
dismissing the bill in a suit by Davis, a shareholder of
the Edison Electric Illuminating Company of Boston, to
enjoin the corporation from complying with tax require-

ments of Title VIII of the Social Security Act.
Assistant Attorney General Jackson and Mr. Charles E.
Wyzanski, Jr., with whom Attorney General Cummings,

Solicitor General Reed, and Messrs. Sewall Key, A. H.
Feller, Arnold Raum, Thomas H. Eliot, Alanson Willcox, and Robert P. Bingham, were on the brief, for

petitioners.

HELVERING v. DAVIS.
619

Argument for Petitioners.

Since the employer is merely a withholding agent with
respect to the employee tax, neither corporation nor
stockholder may ask for relief from it.
Both the employee tax (a special income tax, United
States v. Hudson, 299 U. S. 498) and the employer tax
(an excise) comply with the requirement of uniformity.
These are true taxes, their purpose being simply to
raise revenue. No compliance with any scheme of federal regulation is involved. The proceeds are paid unrestricted into the Treasury as internal revenue collections, available for the general support of the Government. Although Congress may have anticipated that
over a period of years the taxes would roughly offset the
drain upon the Treasury to be occasioned by the wholly
independent appropriations authorized under Title II,
such rough budgetary equivalence is not sufficient to deprive Title VIII of its quality as a true taxing measure.
The Circuit Court of Appeals erred in undertaking to
pass upon the validity of Title II. Frothinghamv. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447.. A taxpayer has no standing to question the propriety of any expenditures from the federal
Treasury. That rule has been relaxed only where the
tax avails are earmarked for a specific purpose.
The employee tax is a withholding at the source, the
employer being a collecting agent or stakeholder. The
withholding provisions themselves are not challenged,
nor could they be successfully attacked. Brushaber v.
Union Pacific R. Co., 240 U. S. 1, 21; Pierce Oil Corp. v.
Hopkins, 264 U. S. 137; Bell's Gap R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232, 239. The employer, as stakeholder,
has no locus standi to challenge this tax. United States
v. American Exchange Co., 43 F. (2d) ('29;United States
v. FirstCapitalBank, 98 F. (2d) 116; Miami Valley Fruit
Co. v. United States, 45 F. (2d) 303; United States v.
Erb, 8 F. Supp. 947.

622

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Petitioners.

301 U. S.

The corporation can complain only of the infringement of its own constitutional immunity. Virginian Ry.
Co. v. System Federation,300 U. S. 515. No employee is
complaining. Jeffrey Mfg. Co. v. Blagg, 235 U. S. 571,
576. See Erie R. Co. v. Williams, 233 U. S. 685, 697;
Rail Coal Co. v. Ohio Industrial Comm'n, 236 U. S. 338,
349; Hawkins v. Bleakly, 243 U. S. 210, 214. The standing of the stockholder cannot be any better than that
of his corporation.
The power to appropriate for the general welfare
granted by Art. I, § 8, cl. 1, is not limited by or to the
other enumerated powers of Congress. United States v.
Butler, 297 U. S. 1. Whether any particular expenditure is for the general welfare is a matter completely
within the determination of Congress. United States v.
Teller, 107 U. S. 64, 68. The decision of Congress is not
reviewable by the courts if by any "reasonable possibility it is for the general welfare." United States v.
Butler, 297 U. S. 1, 65.
The expenditures in the present case are clearly well
within the limits of the power of Congress. The number of aged persons in 'this country is rapidly increasing;
workers in urban industrialized civilization usually arrive
at old age without adequate means for self-support, as
is demonstrated not only by their earning powers during
their working lifetime but by various studies which have
been made of the extent of dependency of people over
65 years of age. Those who are able to call upon their
children for support only aggravate the evil by depriving the younger members of the family of the resources
which they need. Voluntary industrial pension plans
cover but a few. Private charity is inadequate to cope
with the problem. Even state old age benefit laws present grave administrative and financial problems.
Therefore, the expenditures contemplated by Title II
are for the general welfare of the United States. More-

HELVERING v. DAVIS.
619

Argument for Petitioners.

over, the form of the expenditures is soundly designed
to promote general welfare. The statute excludes employed aged persons, thereby providing a simple and
easily administered means test which is legally sufficient. Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S.
219, 230. The payments themselves are graduated both
by wages and length of employment, so as to provide an
incentive to work and at the same time roughly to relate
benefits to past standards of living. The incidental lump
sum payments under §§ 203 and 204 accord .with the general purpose of the plan and also serve to simplify its
administration. The exclusions from benefits are based
upon sound administrative and economic reasons.
Since Titles II and VIII severally constitute valid
exercises of Congressional power, they cannot be invalid
when considered jointly. If it be said that the avails
of the taxes are earmarked, that fact does not deprive
the taxes of their quality as true taxes, even though the
proceeds be earmarked for the payment of benefits to a
particular group. If the payment of benefits under Title
II is an expenditure for the general welfare, then a levy
for the purpose of providing funds for such expenditure
must be a tax within the meaning of the Constitution.
To determine that the expenditures are for the general
welfare is to determine that they are for the benefit of the
taxpayers as well as for the benefit of the direct recipients of the expenditures. A tax does not cease to be one
for the general welfare because the immediate application of the proceeds is to one group of the popalation.
Clark v. Poor, 274 U. S. 554; Gillum v. Johnson, 62 P.
(2d) 1037, 1044; Beeland Wholesale Grocery Co. v.
Kaufman (Ala.), 174 So. 516. "The Constitutional
power to levy taxes does not depend upon the enjoyment
by the taxpayer of any special benefit from the use of
the proceeds raised by taxation." Nashville, C. & St. L.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Petitioners.

301 U. S.

Ry. v. Wallace, 288 U. S. 249, 268; Carley & Hamilton v.
Snook, 281 U. S. 66; Knights v. Jackson, 260 U. S. 12, 15.
Titles II and VIII do not, when considered together,
constitute a regulatory scheme. The Act does not require
retirement from employment and has no tendency to
induce it. It does not constitute a plan for compulsory
insurance within the accepted meaning of the term "insurance." Cf. Lynch v. United States, 292 U. S. 571,
576-577. Whether the plan of the Act may properly be
designated a&old-age insurance is immaterial since it involves only a valid exercise of the taxing power and valid
expenditures for the general welfare without regulatory
incidents. Cf. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 315.
There is no enforced addition to wages, and consequently
the Act does not constitute a regulation of the wage
relationship. The Tenth Amendment has no application,
since Congress has only exercised its granted powers.
Ashwander v. Tennessee Valley Authority, 297 U. S. 288,
330. The tax and expenditures are not forbidden to the
Federal Government merely because the States themselves might legitimately lay similar taxes and make
similar expenditures. Hoke v. United States, 227 U. S.
308, 322. United States v. Butler, 297 U. S. 1, and
Railroad Retirement Board v. Alton R. Co., 295 U. S.
330, distinguished.
The taxes do not violate the Fifth Amendment. Not
only are the various selections of employments for taxation well within the power of Congress (Sonzinsky v.
United States, 300 U. S. 506), but they are of the type
long sanctioned.
The provision limiting the amount of taxable wages
to $3,000 is likewise valid. Congress has as full discretion in determining how far it will exercise the taxing
power as it has in selecting the subjects for taxation.
This provision will be. found justified by precedent as well
as by its reasonable tendency to avoid double taxation.

HELVERING v. DAVIS.
Argument for Respondent.

619

Title VIII is a valid exercise of the power "To lay and
collect taxes, duties, imposts and excises, to pay the debts
and provide for the common defence and general welfare
of the United States." Const., Art. I, § 8. The authority so conferred "is exhaustive and embraces every conceivable power of taxation." Brushaber v. Union Pac.
R. Co., 240 U. S. 1, 12.
Mr. Edward F. McClennen, with whom Mr. Jacob J.
Kaplan was on the brief, for respondent.
1. The title of an Act and its whole content may be
examined to see that Congress intended the imposition to
be for a particular purpose, and not merely to produce
general revenue for the United States. Hill v. Wallace,
259 U. S. 44; Child Labor Tax Case, 259 U. S. 20; Carter
v. Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S. 238 (semble); United States
v. Constantine, 296 U. S. 287, 294 (semble); Grosjean v.
American Press Co., 297 U. S. 233; Trusler v. Crooks,
269 U. S. 475; and United States v. Butler, 297 U. S. 1.
2. The imposition is not an "excise" within the meaning of that word as used in the only clause of the Constitution which empowers the Congress to levy taxes. See
Davis v. Boston & Maine R. R., 89 F. (2d) 368.
"Excise," in England and in the Colonies, for at least
one hundred and forty years before it was used in the
Constitution, meant an inland levy on selected tangible
property, or upon the owners of it, because of the activity
in which the property was moving, as in the manufacture, in intermediate sale, or in the ultimate sale commonly amounting to consumption. The antithesis was
the direct tax upon property in general, certainly land,
when taxed on a rate fixed by its static appraised capital
value, possibly when measured by its annual unwrought
return in rent, income, or products, and, debatably, upon
Both the
personal property so appraised or judged.
direct tax and the excise were preeminently property
146212---37---

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Respondent.

301 U. S.

taxes,-one regardless of its activity or inactivity, and
the other taking that activity into consideration. In
1766 Dr. Johnson defined "excise" as "a hateful tax levied
upon commodities, and adjudged not by the common
judges of property." Dict. (3d ed., 1766). He defined
"commodity" as "interest, advantage, profit, convenience
of time or place, wares, -merchandise." Id. "Commodity" suggests, as the principal thought, merchandise. In
1776 Adam Smith in his "The Wealth of Nations" said,
"The duties of excise are imposed chiefly upon goods of
home produce destined for home consumption. They
are imposed only upon a few sorts of goods of the most
general use." In 1780 the Massachusetts constitution
indicated direct taxes to be the normal source of revenue,
but gave the legislature authority to impose "reasonable
duties and excises, upon any produce, goods, wares, merchandise, and commodities, whatsoever." In 1788 the
Constitutional Convention of New York urged an amendment to the Constitution "That the Congress do not impose any excise on any article (ardent spirits excepted)
of the growth, production, or manufacture of the United
States, or any of them." 1 Elliot's Debates 72; Luther
Martin said "By the power to lay excises,-a power very
odious in its nature, since it authorizes officers to go into
your houses, your kitchens, your cellars, and to examine
into your private concerns,-the Congress may impose
duties on every article of use or consumption, on the food
that we eat, on the liquors that we drink, on the clothes
that we wear, the glass which enlightens our houses, or
the hearths necessary for our warmth and comfort." Cf.
Chancellor Livingston in the New York Convention, 2 id.
341; Nicholas in the Virginia Convention, 3 id. 243; also
5 id. 40; Hamilton, Federalist, No. 21, p. 182; Ellsworth, Connecticut Convention, 2 Elliot 192; Writings
of Gallatin, p. 73.

HELVERING v. DAVIS.
619

Argument for Respondent.

See also: Hist. of England, 5 Hume, ed. 1861, p. 269;
Clarendon, the Hist. of Rebellion in England, Vol. II,
p. 453; 1 Blackstone Comm. 308; and Ency. Brit. Third
ed. 1797; British Excise Act, March 28, 1643; January,
1644. The tax laid by the Revenue Act of 1777 (17 Geo.
III, c. 39) of one shilling per annum for every male servant of the kinds described was a luxury tax like the
window tax.
Excises in New York before 1788: See "The Colonial
Laws of New York from the Year 1644 to the Revolution,
Transmitted to the Legislature by the Commissioners of
Statutory Revision, Pursuant to Chapter 125 of the Laws
of 1891," Vol. I, pp. 248, 789; Vol. IV, id. 1, 105; Laws
of New York, 1775 to 1788, Vol. I, pp. 109, 660. In
Pennsylvania: IX Stat. at L. 1776-1799, p. 55. In
Massachusetts: 1646, Plymouth Colony Law, 1836, p. 85;
June 24, 1692, Acts and Resolves of the Province of
Massachusetts Bay, Vol. 1, c. 5, p. 32; I. Id. 57, 272,
391, 475, 527, 662, 73$; II. Id. 203, 849; III. Idl. 495, 568,
750; IV. Id. 219; Acts of Nov. 1, 1781, c. 17, I. Laws of
Mass. 60; 1782, 1783; I. Id. 62, 78, 85; Laws and Resolves of 1782, c. 33, p. 92.
Historically, an excise was in character an inland duty
or impost on a tangible commodity in manufacture or in
sale either in the course of trade or for consumption. It
was not "cut out" of the activity, but out of the goods.
It is inconceivable that the people of the thirteen
States could have understood that the word "excise" included an imposition on the state of being of exercising
the universal 'natural right to employ, for wages, other
men who consented to that employment, in a manner
not injurious to the public good.
Supporters of this tax have urged that it is a tax upon
privilege. There is no privilege. The state of being on
which the imposition is made is not derived from gov-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Respondent.

301 U. S.

ernment or from public authority in any manner. Privilege contrasts with common natural opportunity. Contrast the privilege to do business without liability for
debts, as in corporate form. Any dictionary of the common meanings will show that "privilege" as used in this
context means something not of common right.
Undoubtedly properties of modern times--as, for example, automobiles--never thought of in 1788, may come
within the meaning of the word "excise" in 1788. But,
if the state of being, of having individuals in a man's
employ,-a thing of character which existed in 1788,did not then come within the meaning of the word, it is
not there now.
An attempted Act may be clearly without the powers
of the Congress, and a particular litigant nevertheless
may have no right to invoke the judgment of this Court.
Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447; Florida v. Mellon, 273 U. S. 12. Consequently, the fact that the validity of appropriation of the money of the United States
in questionable ways has not been questioned before this
Court, carries no implication that the appropriations
were lawful, or approved by the people.
It is only in the last twenty years that inland taxes
of the United States have become so burdensome that it
has been worth the extensive effort of many people to
prevent unlawful appiopriations.
A person in terms obliged by an attempted invalid
Act to pay money to go into the Treasury of the United
States, has a right to a decision. United States v. Butler, 297 U. S. 1.
An imposition on a particular class of tangible property, in manufacture, use, gift, bequest, or sale, may be
sustained as an- excise if it meets the other constitutional requirements, including that the end is to provide
revenue for the general welfare of the Federal Government and that the selection is not capricious or violative

HELVERING v. DAVIS.
619

Argument for Respondent.

of the rule of uniformity. Magnano v. Hamilton, 292
U. S. 40; Bromley v. McCaughn, 280 U. S. 124; N. Y.
Trust Co. v. Eisner, 256 U. S. 345; Billings v. United
States, 232 U. S. 261; McCray v. United States, 195
U. S. 27; Thomas v. United States, 192 U. S. 363; Cornell
v. Coyne, 192 U. S.418; Spreckels Sugar Co. v. McClain,
192 U. S. 397; Patton v. Brady, 184 U. S. 608;- Treat v.
White, 181 U. S. 264; Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41,
84; Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S. 609; Springer v. United
States, 102 U. S. 586; Railroad Co. v. Collector, 100 U. S.
595; Scholey v. Rew, 23 Wall. 331; Veazie Bank v. Fenno,
8 Wall. 533; Pacific Ins. Co. v. Soule, 7 Wall. 433; License Cases, 5 Wall. 462; Hylton v. United State#, 3
Dall. 171. Important documents, and paper, particularly commercial paper, are tangible and valuable because of that fact. Patton v. Brady, 184 U. S. 608, 617;
Cook v.. Pennsylvania, 97 U. S. 566. In at least one case
this Court has held that a franchise is a sufficiently
palpable kind of property to permit an excise in respect
of it, Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107, 155, 162;
but it has never held that the natural, harmless, state of
being, or natural, harmless conduct privileged or unprivileged, is subject to excise.
See: Opinions of the Justices, 282 Mass. 219; 266
Mass. 592, 595; 196 Mass. 624.
Property may not be taken by government from one
for another, even for public advantage or welfare, without
just compensation, Louisville Bank v. Radford, 295 U. S.
555, 601, 602; United States v. Butler, 297 U. S. 1; Railroad Retirement Board v. Alton R. Co., 295 U. S. 330;
and it makes no difference that it is done under the guise
of a tax or is the product of a tax, Loan Association v.
Topeka, 20 Wall. 655; Calder v. Bull, 3.Dall. 386; Miles
Planting Co. v. Carlisle,5 App..D. C. 138, 146.
Even if a tax is levied expressly for the purpose of
obtaining general revenue, when it appears, "in the light

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Respondent.

301 U. S.

of its history and of its present setting," that it is for a
purpose which the Constitution does not permit the lawmaking body to accomplish, the tax is invalid. Grosjean
v. American Press Co., Inc., 297 U. S. 233, 250. Distinguishing Spreckels Sugar Ref. Co. v. McClain, 192 U. S.
397.
3. In testing the validity of the levy attempted in
§ § 804 and 802, an unchanging decision must be made for
all purposes, as to whether the levy is for general revenue
only or is for old age benefits such as are described in
Title II. The levy should not be deemed to be for such
benefits at one stage of argument in order to meet the
charge of capriciousness, and for general revenue at
another stage in order to meet the charge of absence of
federal purpose.
4. Whether for general revenue or not, the attempted
levy is so capricious and so lacking in uniformity as not to
be in character a tax. If the purpose is general revenue,
there is no basis in reason for selecting certain faultless
employers to bear the entire burden and thereby relieve
wealth generally from taxation to furnish the revenue.
If the purpose is old-age benefits, there is no more reason
for shifting the burden of a tax on wealth to the shoulders
of possibly poor employers who are not the cause of the
old age. There is no attempt to cover all in the same
class. If men over sixty-five years of age ought to have
an annuity or old-age benefit, it should be on account of
that fact, not because of the type of employment in which
they have been engaged, and if employers ought to pay
an excise for the state of being of having employees,
they ought to pay it when they have that state of being.
It is the known fact that imposition upon non-agricultural labor is equivalent to confining the imposition to
certain States to the approximately complete exclusion
of other States. It is capricious to deny the "over-sixtyfive" benefits to farm laborers, and to relieve their employers from an imposition placed on other employers.

HELVERING v. DAVIS.
619

Argument for Respondent.

. Only 56%, or less, of the gainful workers in the United
States are potentially to be benefited. The employers
of only this 56%, (or less), are subjected to the imposition.
The employers of the 56% bear not only the burden
of caring by so much for the aged among the 56%, but
also the burden of their share of taxes to meet the public expense for poor relief and assistance to the remaining 44%, and of the unprovided for balance of the 56%.
Senate Report No. 628, (74th Congress, 1st Sess. 1935)
indicates that when the impositions under Titles VIII
and IX are in full sway, so that 9% on the pay rolls
must be paid, the imposition is equivalent to a general
sales tax of 3%. As the tax is on employers in trade
as well as in industry, (except in the case of imported
merchandise sold), they are taxed twice. The employers
in the production and trade in domestic industry in this
way pay two taxes inevitably; and where the products
pass through both wholesale and retail trade, three taxes.
What passes from wholesale trade into the hands of the
manufacturers, as the raw material of those manufacturers, calls for another payment. It is beyond the possibility of accurate mathematical statement. In many
cases the levy cannot be passed on without the destruction of the trade; and if not passed on, the employer
inevitably meets financial ruin when subjected to such a
huge tax.
If gainful workers ought to have an annuity after age
sixty-five, so should all other persons. There is no reason
for favoring those who have been able to get and perform
work, to the exclusion of those who have not. The number of workers potentially to benefit and preferentially
treated is less than 22% of the population.
Capricious selection of class of property, class of persons, or rate gradation, converts an attempted excise
into a nonuniform confiscation, without tax character.
Grosjean v. American Press Co., 297 U. S. 233, 251;

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Respondent.

301 U. S.

Colgate v. Harvey, 296 U. S. 404, 422, 424; Concordia
Fire Ins. Co. v. Illinois, 292 U. S. 535; Stebbins v. Riley,
268 U. S. 137; Louisville Gas Co. v. Coleman, 277 U. S.
32; Schlesinger v. Wisconsin, 270 U. S.230; Bromley v.
McCaughn, 280 U. S. 124, 139; Mayflower Farms v. Ten
Eyck, 297 U. S.266, 272 (semble) of a regulation; In re
Opinion of the Justices, 85 N. H. 562, (semble). Cf.
Brushaber v. Union Pacific R. Co., 240 U. S. 1, 24.
5. To provide old age benefits such as are described in
Title II is not a purpose for which the Congress has
power to tax. Such a purpose is not for the common
dbfense, or to pay the debts of, or to provide for the general welfare of, the Government.
Apart from taxes to pay the debts and provide for
the common defense of the Government, no tax by
Congress is authorized unless it is to provide for the general welfare of the Government of the United States.
The limits upon the taxing power are not set by "welfar&' only, but by the limits upon the kind of welfare
for which the tax may be levied. It must be the limited
kind of welfare which is "general," and it must be the
limited kind of welfare which is "of the United States."
In this limitation, "of the United States" evidently is
used in the sense of Government of the United States.
It is not to be supposed that a constitution would grant
to Congress a power to tax to provide revenue for the
general welfare of the territory of the United States
when that Congress had been given no power to legislate
for the general welfare of that territory. The words
"general" and "of the United States" are words of restriction upon the kind of welfare to provide revenue for
which Congress may levy a tax. They stand opposite to
the restrictions of "State" or "local" in defining the welfare for which a State may levy a tax.
As far as it may be done by legislation, the control of
the relati6n between employer and employee, the rate

HELVERING v. DAVIS.
619

Argument for Respondent.

of wages, the withholding of wages to build reserves, the
insurance against accidents, the making of reserves for
the employee when he no longer, or not for a time, can
earn wages, is for the legislature of the State.
The support of men and women who havi come to be
sixty-five years old in the respective States, or who cannot get employment, is no more for the general welfare of
the Government of the United States than is the keeping
of the citizenry of the United States from becoming drug
addicts, and thereby likely to be unable to earn a living or
to fight for the United States, or to vote intelligently for a
President or Senators and Representatives. Cf. Linder
v. United States, 268 U. S.5, 17; United States v. Doremus, 249 U. S.86, 95; United States v. Jin Fuey Moy,
241 U. S. 394, 401. Local commercial activities and
employment relations completed wholly within a State,
howsoever common they may be in every State, are not
a part of the general welfare of the Government of the
United States. Schechter Poultry Corp. v. United States,
295 U. S.495; United States v. Butler, 297 U. S.1; Railroad Retirement. Board v. Alton R. Co., 295 U. S.330
(a fortiori); Child Labor Tax Case, 259 U. S.20; Hill v.
Wallace, 259 U. S.44; Hammer v. Dagenhart, 247 U. S.
251. Cf. remarks of Hughes, C. J., in Carter v. Carter
Coal Co., 298 U. S.238, 317.
The State where this. local employment occurs may
deem it wiser to regulate the relation in a different way,
to provide a smaller annuity with a smaller compulsory
contribution, or none at all. The same thing cannot be
done by Congress and by the state legislature. If it is a
subject for legislative regulation at all, the Tenth Amendment says that it is' to be regulated by the state legislature, and not by Congress. Cf. Chamberlin v. Andrews,
299 U. S.515; Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113.
Impositions for old-age benefits do not differ'in this
respect from those for unemployment benefits. The par-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

ticular limit to "general welfare," as to which Hamilton
and Madison differed, and Monroe vacillated, is not involved. None of them suggested that any such regulations of employment obligations and relations within a
State come within this phrase. None of them, it seems,
would have supported a power in Congress to compel
employers and employees in purely local employment to
contribute to a fund for old-age annuities for others.
Cf. veto messages of Presidents Jackson, May 27, 1830,
2 Richardson, 483, 492, 639; Buchanan, February 24,
1859, 5 Id. 547; Cleveland in 1887, 8 Id. 557.
6. In fact and in law, in the sections 804 and 802 under
consideration, this is not a taxing statute, but an unconstitutional attempt to regulate the wage relation within
the several States. West Coast Hotel Co. v. Parrish,
300 U. S. 379; Attorney-General for Canada v. Attorney
General for Ontario, [1937] A. C. 355, affirming [1936]
Can. S. C. R. 427.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Social Security Act (Act of August 14, 1935, c.
531, 49 Stat. 620, 42 U. S. C., c. 7, (Supp.)) is challenged
once again.
In Steward Machine Co. v. Davis, decided this day,
ante, p. 548, we have upheld the validity of Title IX of
the act, imposing an excise upon employers of eight or
more. In this case Titles VIII and II are the subject
of attack. Title VIII lays another excise upon employers in addition to the one imposed by Title IX (though
with different exemptions). It lays a special income
tax upon employees to be deducted from their wages and
paid by the employers. Title II provides for the payment of Old Age Benefits, and supplies the motive and
occasion, in the view of the assailants of the statute, for

HELVERING v. DAVIS.
619

Opinion of the Court.

the levy of the taxes imposed by Title VIII. The plan
of the two titles will now be summarized more fully.
Title VIII, as we have said, lays two different types
of tax, an "income tax on employees," and "an excise tax
on employers." The income tax on employees is measured by wages paid during the calendar year. § 801.
The excise tax on the employer is to be paid "with respect to having individuals in his employ," and, like the
tax on employees, is measured by wages. § 804. Neither
tax is applicable to certain types of employment, such
as agricultural labor, domestic service, service for the
national or state governments, and service performed by
persons who have attained the age of 65 years. § 811
(b). The two taxes are at the same rate. §§ 801, 804.
For the years 1937 to 1939, inclusive, the rate for each
tax is fixed at one per cent. Thereafter the rate increases 1/2 of 1 per cent every three years, until after
December 31, 1948, the rate for each tax reaches 3 per
cent. ' Ibid. In the computation of wages all remuneration is to be included except so much as is in excess of
$3,000 during the calendar year affected. § 811 (a).
The income tax on employees is to be collected by the
employer, who is to deduct the amount from the wages
"as and when paid." § 802 (a). He is indemnified
against claims and demands of any person by reason of
such payment. Ibid. The proceeds of both taxes are
to be paid into the Treasury like internal-revenue taxes
generally, and are not earmarked in any way. § 807 (a).
There are penalties for non-payment. § 807 (c).
Title II has the caption "Federal Old-Age Benefits."
The benefits are of two types, first, monthly pensions,
and second, lump sum payments, the payments of the
second class being relatively few and unimportant.
The first section of this title creates an account in the
United States Treasury to be known as the "Old-Age

636

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

Reserve Account." § 201. No present appropriation,
however, is made to that account. All that the statute
does is to authorize appropriations annually thereafter,
beginning with the fiscal year which ends June 30, 1937.
How large they shall be is not known in advance. The
''amount sufficient as an annual premium" to provide for
the required payments is "to be determined on a reserve
basis in accordance with accepted actuarial principles, and
based upon such tables of mortality as the Secretary of
the Treasury shall from time to time adopt, and upon an
interest rate of 3 per centum per annum compounded
annually." § 201 (a). Not a dollar goes into the Account by force of the challenged act alone, unaided by
acts to follow.
Section 202 and later sections prescribe the form of
benefits. The principal type is a monthly pension payable to a person after he has attained the age of 65.
This benefit is available only to one who has worked for
at least one day in each of at least five separate years
since December 31, 1936, who has earned at least $2,000
since that date, and who is not then receiving wages "with
respect to regular employment." §§ 202 (a), (d), 210 (c).
The benefits are not to begin before January 1, 1942.
§ 202 (a). In no event are they to exceed $85 a month.
§ 202 (b). They are to be measured (subject to that
limit) by a percentage of the wages, the percentage decreasing at stated intervals as the wages become higher.
§ 202 (a). In addition to the monthly benefits, provision is made in certain contingencies for "lump sum
payments" of secondary importance. A summary by
the Government of the four situations calling for such
payments is printed in the margin.'
'(1) If through an administrative error or delay a person who is
receiving a monthly pension dies before he receives the correct
amount, the amount which should have been paid to him is paid in
a lump sum to his estate [§ 203 (c)].

HELVERING v. DAVIS.
619

Opinion of the Court.

This suit is brought by a shareholder of the Edison
Electric Illuminating Company of Boston, a Massachusetts corporation, to restrain the corporation from making
the payments and deductions called for by the act, which
is stated to be void under the Constitution of the United
States. The bill tells us that the corporation has decided
to obey the statute, that it has reached this decision in the
face of the complainant's protests, and that it will make
the payments and deductions unless restrained by a decree. The expected consequences are indicated substantially as follows: The deductions from the wages of the
employees will produce unrest among them, and will be
followed, it is predicted, by demands that wages be increased. If the exactions shall ultimately be held void,
the company will have parted with moneys which as a
practical matter it will be impossible to recover. Nothing
is said in the bill about the promise of indemnity. The
prediction is made also that serious consequences will en(2) If a person who has earned wages in each of at least five separate years since December 31, 1936, and who has earned in that
period more than $2,000, dies after attaining the age of 65, but before
he has received in monthly pensions an amount equal to 3 percent
of the "wages" paid to him between January 1, 1937, and the time
he reaches 65, then there is paid in a lump sum to his estate the
difference between said 3/2 percent and the total amouhit paid to him
during his life as monthly pensions [§ 203 (b)].
(3) If a person who has earned wages since December 31, 1936,
dies before attaining the age of 65, then there is paid to his estate
31/2 percent of the "wages" paid to him between January 1, 1937,
and his death [§ 203 (a)].
(4) If a person has, since December 31, 1936, earned wages in
employment covered by Title II, but has attained the age of 65
either without working for at least one day in each of 5 separate
years since 1936, or without earning at least $2,000 between January
1, 1937, and the time he attains 65, then there is paid to him [or to
his estate, § 204 (b)], a lump sum equal to 31/2 percent of the
"wages" paid to him between January 1, 1937, and the time he
attained 65 [§ 204 (a)].

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

sue if there is a submission to the excise. The corporation and its shareholders will suffer irreparable loss, and
many thousands of dollars will be subtracted from the
value of the shares. The prayer is for an injunction and
for a declaration that the act is void.
The corporation appeared and answered without raising any issue of fact. Later the United States Commissioner of Internal Revenue and the United States Collector for the District of Massachusetts, petitioners in this
court, were allowed to intervene. They moved to strike
so much of the bill as has relation to the tax on employees,
taking the ground that the employer, not being subject
to tax under those provisions, may not challenge their
validity, and that the complainant shareholder, whose
rights are no greater than those of his corporation, has
even less standing to be heard on such a question. The
intervening defendants also filed an answer which restated the point raised in the motion to strike, and maintained the validity of Title VIII in all its parts. The
District Court held that the tax upon employees was not
properly at issue, and that the tax upon employers was
constitutional. It thereupon denied the prayer for an injunction, and dismissed the bill. On appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the First Circuit, the decree was
reversed, one judge dissenting. 89 F. (2d) 393. The
court held that Title II was void as an invasion of powers
reserved by the Tenth Amendment to the states or to the
people, and that Title II in collapsing carried Title VIII
along with it. As an additional reason for invalidating
the tax upon employers, the court held that it was not an
excise as excises were understood when the Constitution
was adopted. Cf. Davis v. Boston & Maine R. Co., 89 F.
(2d) 368, decided the same day.
A petition for certiorari followed. If was filed by the
intervening defendants, the Commissioner and the Collector, and brought two questions, and two only, to our

HELVERING v. DAVIS.
619

Opinion of the Court.

notice. We were asked to determine: (1) "whether the
tax imposed upon employers by § 804 of the Social Security Act is within the power of Congress under the Constitution," and (2) "whether the validity of the tax imposed upon employees by § 801 of the Social Security Act
is properly in issue in this case, and if it is, whether that
tax is within te power of Congress under the Constitution." The defendant corporation gave notice to the
Clerk that it joined in the petition, but it has taken no
part in any subsequent proceedings. A writ of certiorari
issued.
First. Questions as to the remedy invoked by the complainant confront us at the outset.
Was the conduct of the company in resolving to pay
the taxes a legitimate exercise of the discretion of the
directors? Has petitioner a standing to challenge that
resolve in the absence of an adequate showing of irreparable injury? Does the acquiescence of the company in the
equitable remedy affect the answer to those questions?
Though power may still be ours to take such objections
for ourselves, is acquiescence effective to rid us of the
duty? Is duty modified still further by the attitude of
the Government, its waiver of a defense under § 3224 of
the Revised Statutes, its waiver of a defense that the legal
remedy is adequate, its earnest request that we determine
whether the law shall stand or fall? The writer of this
opinion believes that the remedy is ill conceived, that in
a controversy such as this a court must refuse to give
equitable relief when a cause of action in equity is neither
pleaded nor proved, and that the suit for an injunction
should be dismissed upon that ground. He thinks this
course should be followed in adherence to the general rule
that constitutional questions are not to be determined in
the absence of strict necessity. In that view he is supported by MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS, MR. JUSTICE STONE
and MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS. However, a majority of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

court have reached a different conclusion. They find in
this case extraordinary features making it fitting in their
judgment to determine whether the benefits and the taxes
are valid or invalid. They distinguish Norman v. Consolidated Gas Co., 89 F. (2d) 619, recently decided by the
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, on the ground
that in that case, the remedy was challenged by the company and the Government at every stage of the proceeding, thus withdrawing from the court any marginal
discretion. The ruling of the majority removes from the
case the preliminary objection as to the nature of the
remedy which we took of our own motion at the begin-.
ning of the argument. Under the compulsion of that
ruling, the merits are now here.
Second. The scheme of benefits created by the provisions of Title II is not in contravention of the limitations
of the Tenth Amendment.
Congress may spend money in aid of the "general welfare." Constitution, Art. I, section 8; United States v.
Butler, 297 U. S. 1, 65; Steward Machine Co. v. Davis,
supra. There have been great statesmen in our history
who have stood for other views. We will not resurrect
the contest. It is now settled by decision. United States
v. Butler, supra. The conception of the spending power
advocated by Hamilton and strongly reinforced by Story
has prevailed over that of Madison, which has not been
lacking in adherents. Yet difficulties are left when the
power is conceded. The line must still be drawn between
one welfare and another, between particular and general.
Where this shall be placed cannot be known through a
formula in advance of the event. There is a middle
ground or certainly a penumbra in which discretion is at
large. The discretion, however, is not confided to the
courts. The discretion belongs to Congress, unless the
choice is clearly wrong, a display of arbitrary power, not
an exercise of judgment. This is now familiar law.

HELVERING v. DAVIS.
619

Opinion of the Court.

"When such a contention comes here we naturally require a showing that by no reasonable possibility can the
challenged legislation fall within the wide range of discretion permitted to the Congress." United States v.
Butler, supra, p. 67. Cf. Cincinnati Soap Co. v. United
States, ante, p. 308; United States v. Realty Co., 163 U. S.
427, 440; Head Money Cases, 112 U. S. 580, 595. Nor is
the concept of the general welfare static. Needs that
were narrow or parochial a century ago may be interwoven in our day with the well-being of the Nation.
What is critical or urgent changes with the times.
The purge of nation-wide calamity that began in 1929
has taught us many lessons. Not the least is the solidarity
of interests that may once have seemed to be divided. Unemployment spreads from State to State, the hinterland
now settled that in pioneer days gave an avenue of escape.
Home Building & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290 U. S. 398,
442. Spreading from State to State, unemployment is an
ill not particular but general, which may be checked, if
Congress so determines, by the resources of the Nation.
If this can have been doubtful until now, our ruling today
in the case of the Steward Machine Co., supra, has set the
doubt at rest. But the ill is all one, or at least not greatly
different, whether men are thrown out of work because
there is no longer work to do or because the disabilities
of age make them incapable of doing it. Rescue becomes
necessary irrespective of the cause. The hope behind this
statute is to save men and women from the rigors of the
poor house as well as from the haunting fear that such a
lot awaits them when journey's end is near.
Congress did not improvise a judgment when it found
that the award of old age benefits would be conducive to
the general welfare. The President's Committee on Economic Security made an investigation and report, aided
by a research staff of Government officers and employees,
and by an Advisory Council and seven other advisory
146212°-37---41

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

groups.' Extensive hearings followed before the House
Committee on Ways and Means, and the Senate Committee on Finance.' A great mass of evidence was brought
together supporting the policy which finds expression in
the act. Among the relevant facts are these: The number
of persons in the United States 65 years of age or over is
increasing proportionately as well as absolutely. What
is even more important the number of such persons unable to take care of themselves is growing at a threatening
pace. More and more our population is becoming urban
and industrial instead of rural and agricultural.' The evidence is impressive that among industrial workers the
younger men and women are preferred over the older.'
In times of retrenchment the older are commonly the first
to go, and even if retained, their wages are likely to be
lowered. The plight of men and women at so low an age
as 40 is hard, almost hopeless, when they are driven to
seek for reemployment. Statistics are in the brief. A
few illustrations will be chosen from many there collected.
In 1930, out of 224 American factories investigated, 71, or
almost one third, had fixed maximum hiring age limits;
in 4 plants the limit was under 40; in 41 it was under 46.
In the other 153 plants there were no fixed limits, but in
practice few were hired if they were over 50 years of age.'
With the loss of savings inevitable in periods of idleness,
'Report to the President of the Committee on Economic Security,

1935.
'Hearings before the House Committee on Ways and Means on
H. R. 4120, 74th Congress, 1st session; Hearings before the Senate
Committee on Finance on S. 1130, 74th Congress, 1st Session.
'See Report of the Committee on Recent Social Trends, 1932,
vol. 1, pp. 8, 502; Thompson and Whelpton, Population Trends in
the United States, pp. 18, 19.
See the authorities collected at pp. 54-62 of the Government's
brief.
'Hiring and Separation Methods in American Industry, 35 Monthly
Labor Review, pp. 1005, 1009.

HELVERING v. DAVIS.
619

643

Opinion of the Court.

the fate of workers over 65, when thrown out of work, is
little less than desperate. A recent study of the Social
Security Board informs us that "one-fifth of the aged in
the United States were receiving old-age assistance, emergency relief, institutional care, employment under the
works program, or some other form of aid from public
or private funds; two-fifths to one-half were dependent
on friends and relatives, one-eighth had some income from
earnings; and possibly one-sixth had some savings or
property. Approximately three out of four persons 65
or over were probably dependent wholly or partially on
others for support." I We summarize in the margin the
results of other studies by state and national commissions.8
They point the same way.
'Economic Insecurity in Old Age (Social Security Board, 1937),
p. 15.
'The Senate Committee estimated, when investigating the present
act, that over one half of the people in the United States over
65 years of age are dependent upon others for support. Senate Report, No. 628, 74th Congress, 1st Session, p. 4. A similar estimate
was made in the Report to the President of the Committee on Economic Security, 1935, p. 24.
A Report of the Pennsylvania Commission on Old Age Pensions
made in 1919 (p. 108) after a study of 16,281 persons and interviews
with more than 3,500 persons 65 years and over showed two fifths
with no income but wages and one fourth supported by children;
1.5 per cent had savings and 11.8 per cent haa property.
A report on old age pensions by the Massachusetts Commission
on Pensions (Senate No. 5, 1925, pp. 41, 52) showed that in 1924
two thirds of those above 65 had, alone or with a spouse, less than
$5,000 of property, and one fourth had none. Two thirds of those
with less than $5,000 and income of less than $1,000 were dependent
in whole or in part on others for support.
A report of the New York State Commission made in 1930 (Legis.
Doc. No. 67, 1930, p. 39) showed a condition of total dependency as
to 58 per cent of those 65 and over, and 62 per cent of those 70
and over.
The national Government has found in connection with grants to
states for old age assistance under another title of the Social Security

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

The problem is plainly national in area and dimensions. Moreover, laws of the separate states cannot deal
with it effectively. Congress, at least, had a basis for
that belief. States and local governments are often lacking in the resources that are necessary to finance an
adequate program of security for the aged. This is
brought out with a wealth of illustration in recent studies
of the problem.' Apart from the failure of resources,
states and local governments are at times reluctant to
increase so heavily the burden of taxation to be borne
by their residents for fear of placing themselves in a
position of economic disadvantage as compared with
neighbors or competitors. We have seen this in our
study of the problem of unemployment compensation.
Steward Machine Co. v. Davis, supra. A system of old
age pensions has special dangers of its own, if put in force
in one state and rejected in another. The existence of
such a system is a bait to the needy and dependent elsewhere, encouraging them to migrate and seek a haven
of repose. Only a power that is national can serve the
interests of all.
Whether wisdom or unwisdom resides in the scheme of
benefits set forth in Title II, it is not for us to say. The
answer to such inquiries must come from Congress, not
the courts. Our concern here, as often, is with power, not
with wisdom. Counsel for respondent has recalled to
us the virtues of self-reliance and frugality. There is a
possibility, he says, that aid from a paternal government
Act (Title I) that in February, 1937, 38.8 per cent of all persons
over 65 in Colorado received public assistance; in Oklahoma the
percentage was 44.1, and in Texas 37.5. In 10 states out of 40 with
plans approved by the Social Security Board more than 25 per cent
of those over 65 could meet the residence requirements and qualify
under a means test and were actually receiving public aid. Economic
Insecurity in Old Age, supra, p. 15.
1 Economic Insecurity in Old Age, supra, chap. VI, p. 184.

HELVERING v. DAVIS.
619

645

Opinion of the Court.

may sap those sturdy virtues and breed a race of weaklings. If Massachusetts so believes and shapes her laws
in that conviction, must her breed of sons be changed, he
asks, because some other philosophy of government finds
favor in the halls of Congress? But the answer is not
doubtful. One might ask with equal reason whether the
system of protective tariffs is to be set aside at will in
one state or another whenever local policy prefers the
rule of laissez faire. The issue is a closed one. It was
fought out long ago.' ° When money is spent to promote
the general welfare, the concept of welfare or the opposite
is shaped by Congress, not the states. So the concept
be not arbitrary, the locality must yield. Constitution,
Art. VI, Par. 2.
Third. Title II being valid, there is no occasion to inquire whether Title VIII would have to fall if Title II
were set at naught.
The argument for the respondent is that the provisions
of the two titles dovetail in such a way as to justify the
conclusion that Congress would have been unwilling to
pass one without the other. The argument for petitioners is that the tax moneys are not earmarked, and
that Congress is at liberty to spend them as it will.
The usual separability clause is embodied in the act.
§ 1103.
We find it unnecessary to make a choice between the
arguments, and so leave the question open.
Fourth. The tax upon employers is a valid excise or
duty upon the relation of employment.
As to this we need not add to our opinion in Steward
Machine Co. v. Davis, supra, where we considered a like
question in respect of Title IX.
10 IV Channing, History of the United States, p. 404 (South Carolina Nullification); 8 Adams, History of the United States (New
England Nullification and the Hartford Convention).

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

301 U. S.

Fifth. The tax is not invalid as a result of its
exemptions.
Here again the opinion in Steward Machine Co. v.
Davis, supra, says all that need be said.
Sixth. The decree of the Court of Appeals should be
reversed and that of the District Court affirmed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

are of opinion that the provisions of the act 'here challenged are repugnant to the Tenth Amendment, and that
the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals should be
affirmed.
GREAT LAKES TRANSIT CORP. v. INTERSTATE
STEAMSHIP CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 716.

Argued April 28, 29, 1937.-Decided June 1, 1937.

1. Where a common carrier by water, by its bills of lading and
tariffs, waives the exemptions of the Harter Act and accepts liability as insurer of cargo against marine perils, it is entitled to
insure itself against that liability. P. 651.
2. Where a carrier, by agreement with shippers, assumes liability as
insurer of cargo against marine perils, the liability is not diminished by a further stipulation that the carrier will obtain marine
insurance from others. P. 652.
3. Policies of insurance issued to a steamship company, naming it
as the assured, contemplated that the assured, as common carrier,
would take upon itself full liability to cargo.owners for damage
and loss due to perils of the sea, and expressly agreed to indemnify
the assured against that liability. Held:
(1) That ambiguities, if any, raised by other clauses, must be
resolved so as still to give effect to this dominant purpose to
insure the carrier. P. 652.

