CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v. JONES
& LAUGHLIN STEEL CORP.*
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT
FIFTH

No. 419.

COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
CIRCUIT.

Argued February 10, 11, 1037.-Decided April 12, 1937.

1. The distinction between what is national and what is local in
the activities of commerce is vital to the maintenance of our
federal form of government. P. 29.
2. The validity of provisions which, considered by themselves, are
constitutional, held not affected by general and ambiguous declarations in the same statute. P. 30.
3. An interpretation which conforms a statute to the Constitution
must be preferred to another which would render it unconstitutional or of doubtful validity. P. 30.
4. Acts which directly burden or obstruct interstate or foreign commerce, or its free flow, are within the reach of the congressional
419, National Labor Relations Board v. Jones & Laughlin
Steel Corp.; Nos. 420 and 421, National Labor Relations Board v.
Fruehauf Trailer Co., post, p. 49; Nos. 422 and 423, National Labor
Relations Board v. Friedman-HarryMarks Clothing Co., post, p. 58;
No. 365, Associated Press v. National Labor Relations Board, post,
p. 103; and No. 469, Washington, Virginia & Maryland Coach Co. v.
National Labor Relations Board, post, p. 142, which are known as
the "Labor Board Cases," were disposed of in five separate opinions.
The.dissenting opinion, post, p. 76, applies to Nos. 419, 420 and 421,
and 422 and 423. The dissenting opinion, post, p. 133, applies to
No. 365. The opinion in No. 469 was unanimous.
146212°-37-1
1
*No.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

301 U. S.

power; and this includes acts, having that effect., which grow out
of labor disputes. P. 31.
5. Employees in industry have a fundamental right to organize and
select represcntatives of their own choosing for collective bargaining; and discrimination or coercion upon the pirt of their
employer to prevent the free exercise of this right is a proper
subject for condemnation by competent legislative authority.
P. 33.
G. The congressional authority to protect interstate commerce from
burdens and obstructions is not limited to transactions which can
be deemed to be an essential part of a "flow" of such commerce.
Pp. 34-36.
7. Although activities may be intrastate in character when separately considered, if they have such a close and substantial relalien to interstate commerce that their control is essential, or
appropriate, to protect that commerce from burdens and obstructions, Congress has the power to exercise that control. P. 37.
S. This power must be considered in the light of our dual system
of government and may not be extended so as to embrace effects
upon interstate commerce so indirect and remote that to embrace.
them would, in view of cur complex society, effectually obliterate
the distinction between what is national and what is local and
create a completely centralized government. The question is necessarily one of degree. P. 37.
0. Whatever amounts to more or less constant practice, and threatens to obstruct or unduly to burden the freedomr of interstate com-,
merce, is within the regulatory power of Congress under the commerce clause; and it is primarily for Congress to consider and
decide the fact of the danger and meet it. P. 37.,
10. The close and intimate effect which brings the subject within
the reach of federal power may be due to activities in relation
to productive industry, although the industry when separately
viewed is local, P. 38.
11. The relation to interstate commerce of the manufacturing enterprise involved in this case was such that a stoppage of its operations by industrial strife would have an immediate, direct and
paralyzing effect upon interstate commerce. Therefore Congress
had constitutional authority, for the protection of interstate commerce, to safeguard the right of the employees in the manufacturing plant to self-organization and free choice of their representatives for collective bargaining. P. 41.

LABOR BOARD v. JONES & LAUGHLIN.

3

Syllabus.
Judicial notice is taken of the facts that the recognition of the
right of employees to self-organization and to have representatives of their own choosing for the purpose of collective bargaining is often an essential condition of industrial peace, and that
refusal to confer and negotiate has been one of the most, prolific
causes of strife.
12. The National Labor Relations Act of July 5, 1935, empowers
the National Labor Relations Board to prevent any person from
engaging in unfair labor practices "affecting commerce";.its definition of "commerce" (aside from commerce within a territory
or the District of Columbia) is such as to include only interstate
and foreign commerce; and -the term '.'affecting commerce" it defines as meaning "in commerce, or burdening or obstructing commerce or the free flow of commerce, or having led or tending to
lead to a labor dispute burdening or obstructing -commerce or
the free flow of commerce." .The "unfair labor practices," as
defined by the Act and involved in this case, are restraint or
coercion of employees in their rights to self-organization and to
bargain collectively through representatives of their own choosing, and discrimination against them in.regard to hire or tenure..
of employment for the purpose of encouraging or discouraging
membership in any labor organization. §§ 7 and 8. The Act
(§ 9a) declares that representatives, for the purpose of collective
bargaining, of the majority of the employees in an appropriate
unit shall be the exclusive representatives of all the employees
in that unit; but that any individual employee or a group of
employees shall have the right at any time to present grievances
to their employer. Held:
(1) That in safeguarding rights of employees and empowering
the Board, the statute, in so far as involved in the present case,
confines itself to such control of the industrial relationship as
may be constitutionally exercised by Congress to prevent burden
or obstruction to interstate or foreign commerce arising from
industrial disputes. P. 43.
(2) The Act imposes upon Lhe eiiplover the duty of conferring and negotiating with the authorized representatives of the
employees for the purpose of settling a labor dispute; but it
does not preclude such individual contracts as the employer may
elect to make directly with individual employees. P. 44.
(3) The Act does not compel agreements between employers and
employees. Its theory is that free opportunity for negotiation

4

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

301 U. S.

with accredited representatives of employees is likely to promote
industrial peace and may bring about the adjustments and
agreements which the Act in itself does not attempt to compel.
P. 45.
(4) The Act does not interfere with the normal right of the
employer to hire, or with the right of discharge when exercised
for other reasons thin intimidation and coercion; and what is
the true reason in this regard is left the subject of investigation
in each case with full opportunity to show the facts. P. 45.
13. A corporation which manufactured iron and steel products in
its factories in Pennsylvania from raw materials most of which it
brought in from other States, and which shipped 75% of the
manufactured products out of Pennsylvania and disposed of
them throughout this country and in Canada, was required by
orders of the National Labor Relations Board to tender reinstatement to men who had been employed in one of the, factories
but were discharged because of their union activities and for the
purpose of discouraging union membership. The orders further
required that the company make good the pay the men had lost
through their discharge, and that it desist. from discriminating
against members of the union, with regard to hire and tenure
of employment, and from interfering by coercion with the selforganization of its employees in the plant. Held that the orders
were authorized by the National Labor Relations Act, and that
the Act is constitutional as thus applied to the company. Pp. 30,
32, 34, 41.
14. The right of employers to conduct their own business is not
arbitrarily restrained by regulations that merely protect the
correlative rights of their employees to organize fo the purpose
of securing the redress of grievances and of promoting agreements
with employers relating to rates of pay and conditions of work.
P. 43.
15. The fact that the National Labor Relations Act subjects the
employer to supervision and restraint and leaves untouched the
abuses for which employees may be responsible, and fails to
provide a more comprehensive plan, with better assurance of
fairness to both sides and with increased chances of success in
bringing about equitable solutions of industrial disputes affecting interstate commerce, does not affect its validity. The question is as to the power of Congress, not as to its policy; and
legislative authority, exerted within its proper field, need not
embrace all the evils within its reach. P. 46.

LABOR BOARD v. JONES & LAUGHLIN.
1

5

Argument for Petitioner.

16. The Natirnal Labor Relations Act establishes standards to
which the Board must conform. There must be complaint, notice
and hearing. The Board must receive evidence and make findings. These findings as to the facts are to be conclusive, but only
if supported by evidence. The order of the Board is subject to
review by the designated court; and only when sustained by the
court may the order be enforced. Upon that review all questions of the jurisdiction of the Board and the regularity of its
proceedings, all questions of constitutional right or statutory authority, are open to examination by the court. These procedural
provisions afford adequate opportunity to secure judicial protection against arbitrary action, in accordance with the wellsettled rules applicable to administrative agencies set up by
Congress to aid in the enforcement of valid legislation. P. 47.
17. The provision of the National Labor Relations Act, § 10 (c),
authorizing the Board to require the reinstatement of employees
found to have been discharged because of their union activity
or for the purpose of discouraging membership in the union, is
valid. P. 47.
18. The provision of the Act, § 10 (c), that the Board, in requiring reinstatement, may direct the payment of wages for the time
lost by the discharge, less amounts earned by the employee during
that period, does not contravene the provisions of the Seventh
Amendment with respect to jury trial in suits at common law.
P. 48.
83 F. (2d) 998, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 299 U. S. 534, to review a decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals declining to enforce an order of
the National Labor Relations Board.
Mr. J. Warren Madden and Solicitor General Reed,
with whom Attorney General Cummings and Messrs.
CharlesE. Wyzanski, Jr., CharlesA. Horsky, A. H. Feller,
Charles Fahy, Robert B. Watts, Philip Levy, and Malcolm F. Halliday were on the brief, for petitioner.
Arguments. in this case are summarized from the briefs. Extracts from the oral arguments in this and in other Labor Act cases
immediately following will appear in an appendix in the bound
volume.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Petitioner.

301 U. S.

The National Labor Relations Act is an exercise of
the power of Congress to protect interstate commerce
from injuries caused by industrial strife.
Before this statute was enacted experience had shown
that industrial strife was a recurrent burden upon the
interstate commerce of the nation. Not only in its totality had such strife produced obstructions to commerce,
but also in many individual instances such strife eventuated in conspiracies to restrain commerce or imposed
such substantial burdens upon it that penalties or injunctions were applied under the Sherman Act. These
facts are clearly shown by a survey of the results of
individual disputes, the statistics with regard to the total
number of such disputes, and repeated federal activities
in connection with industrial strife.
Congress, in dealing with this 'evil of industrial strife,
might have approached the problem in either of two
ways. It might have enacted a statute designed to remove the burden on interstate commerce after it had
evinced itself in a particular case, as the Sherman Act
did; or, it might have enacted a statute to deal with
the causes of the burden in anticipation of their probable effect, as the Packers and Stockyards Act did. Congressional power to enact this second type of statute
(hereinafter called the preventive power) extends at least
as far as the power to enact a statute to control the burden after its appearance (hereinafter called the control
power). Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S. 495, 525.
The National Labor Relations Act, which is an exercise of this preventive power, does not attempt to eliminate causes of strife in all enterprises. The statute and
the mandate addressd to the administrative Board are
specifically directed to the elimination of the proscribed
practices only when they are found to be "affecting
commerce." § 10 (a). This phrase "affecting commerce"

LABOR BOARD v. JONES & LAUGHLIN.
Argument for Petitioner.

is defined in § 2 (7) of the statute as "in commerce, or burdening or obstructing commerce or the free flo4 of commerce, or having led or tending to lead to a labor dispute burdening or obstructing commerce or the free flow
of commerce." These words are plainly patterned upon
language used in decisions of this Court in cases arising
-under other statutes enacted by Congress under the commerce power. This jurisdictional limitation is manifestly a direction to thb Board to exercise the national
power within the limits permitted by the Constitution.
In other words, Congress has taken as the ambit of this
particular preventive statute the boundaries to which it
would be restricted were it exercising to the full its control power under appropriate legislation.
Of course, in eliminating these proscribed practices in
situations which are likely to come within the control
power of Congress, the application of the Act will upon
occasion result in the prohibition of activities which,
even if allowed to spend their force, would not result
in industrial strife, which did in fact come within the
federal control power. But, provided that when the
practice was indulged in there was a reasonable likelihood
that any industrial strife which resulted would be within
the control power, the Board may apply the preventive
measure. To hold otherwise would deprive Congress of
any preventive power, since no one can predict with absolute accuracy, in advance of the complete development
of the effects of a cause, exactly what those effects will
be. Compare Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S. 495; Chicago Board of Trade v. Olsen, 262 U. S. 1. This lack of
predictability is particularly true of industrial strife.
Moreover, in eliminating the cause of'an evil within the
power of Congress, the Act may on occasion eiminate'the
cause of purely local evils. Indeed, this is almost inevitable, since a single event has multiple consequences.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Petitioner.

301 U. S.

Yet plainly the existence of a granted federal power cannot be limited by the collateral consequences of its exercise. Ashwander v. Tennessee Valley Authority, 297
U. S. 288.
The foregoing epitome of the statutory scheme makes
it clear that the question of the validity of a specific application of the statute depends upon whether industrial strife resulting from the practices in the particular
enterprise under consideration would be of the character which the federal power could control if it occurred.
The question of primary importance therefore is the extent of the federal power of control. Since the language of this statute does not go beyond the ambit of
this power, whatever it may be, the statute is clearly
constitutional on its face, and the only issue is whether
it has been constitutionally applied.
This Court has never had occasion to define the full
extent to which industrial strife in the manufacturing,
producing, or processing divisions of an enterprise engaged extensively in interstate commerce may be subjected to the exercise of the control power of Congress.
It has, however, held that certain situations in these divisions are clearly within the control power, and has further laid down general principles which furnish standards for the proper appreciation of the full scope of that
power.
It is well settled that an industrial dispute in such an
enterprise involving an intent to affect commerce is
within the control power of Congress. United Mine
Workers v. Coronado Coal Co., 259 U. S. 344; Bedford
Cut Stone Co. v. Stone Cutters' Assn., 274 U. S. 37; Duplex Printing Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443; Loewe v.
Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274. Consequently, where the situation in a particular enterprise presents a reasonable likelihood that industrial strife, if it occurred, would involve

LABOR BOARD v. JONES & LAUGHLIN.

9

Argument for Petitioner.

an intent to affect commerce, the Board can apply the
statute to that enterprise.
This Court has also recognized the principle that an
industrial dispute having the necessary effect of substantially burdening commerce would be within the control power of Congress. Industrial Association v. United
States, 268 U. S. 64, 81; United Mine Workers v. Coronado Coal Co., 259 U. S. 344, 410-411. Hence, the statute is applicable to an enterprise which is shown by evidence before the Board to be of such a character that
strife, if it occurred, would have such a necessary effect.
The proper application of the statute to such situations
depends, of course, on the precise scope of the "necessary effect" principle. Although the Court has recognized the principle it has not heretofore had occasion to
define it.
Lastly, the scope of the control power extends to recurring evils which in their totality constitute a burden
on interstate commerce. This Court has stated that
such recurrent evils may, after appropriate findings, be
subjected by Congress to national supervision and restraint. Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S. 495; Chicago
Board of Trade v. Olsen, 262 U. S. 1. This principle extends to industrial strife in enterprises which receive a
substantial part of their raw material from, or ship a
substantial part of their products in, interstate commerce. United Mine Workers v. Coronado Coal Co., 259
U. S. 344, 408; United Leather Workers v. Herkert &
Meisel Trunk Co., 265 U. S. 457, 469; Texas & New Orleans R. Co. v. Brotherhood of Railway Clerks, 281 U. S.
548. Here Congress has found, and experience shows,
that industrial strife in such enterprises constitutes such
a recurring evil. Under this view of the control power
the statute may be applied to the individual instances
of this recurring burden-that is, to any enterprise which

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
•Argument for Petitioner.

301 U. S.

receives a substantial part of its materials from, or ships
a substantial part of its products in, interstate commerce,
and is dependent upon such commerce for the successful
conduct of its business.
We believe that the instant case falls within each of
these three situations in which the control power of Congress may be exercised.
The reasonable likelihood of a controversy with the
intent to affect commerce might be demonstrated in
either of two ways: First, evidence might be presented
to the Board that in a particular situation the intent
already exists; or second, evidence might be presented
to the Board that the situation was comparable to, and
of the same general type as, others out of which in the
past there had evolved controversies with intent to affect
commerce, or that in the particular situation confronting
the Board, such definite intention might reasonably be
expected to develop. In the case at bar it is not claimed
that there is evidence of the first sort; but there is
abundant evidence that the situation is fraught with the
risk that after strife developed it would involve the purpose to curtail the movement of goods in commerce.
As previously stated, the Court has not yet determined
the exact scope of the phrase "necessary effect of substantially burdening commerce." It undeniably includes situations in which the participants cannot be charged with
a conscious specific desire to interrupt commerce. United
States v. Patten, 226 U. S. 525. The statements of this
Court make it clear that the application of this principle
may depend upon the magnitude of the effect on commerce. The possible use of such a standard is entirely
consistent with Carter v. Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S. 238.
Three possible definitions of the scope of the "necessary
effect" principle may be advanced: (1) a necessary effect
on commerce results from industrial strife occurring in

LABOR BOARD v. JONES & LAUGHLIN.

11

Argument for Petitioner.

an enterprise which lies within a well-defined stream or
flow of commerce, or (2) a necessary effect on commerce
results from industrial strife which restrains a substantial
part of all the commerce in a particular commodity, or
(3) a necessary effect on commerce results froni industrial
strife which restrains the movement of a substantial volume of goods which would otherwise move in interstate
commerce. The instant case falls within all three of these
aspects of the principle, but this brief addresses particular
attention to the first and second.
Neither Schechter Corp. v. United States, 295 U. S.
495, nor Carter v. Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S. 238, is here
applicable. In the Schechter case it was urged that wages
and hours in local industry bore a relation to interstate
commerce by reason of an intricate chain of economic
causes and effects. An effect on commerce which occurred in such a manner the Court characterized as indirect. The Act involved in the Cartercase had as its purpose the "stabilizing" of the bituminous coal industry
through regulation .of prices and wages. The effect of
wage cutting on interstate commerce was held to be indirect on the basis of the Schechter case. The collective
bargaining provisions of that Act were, as is clear from
the face of the statute and from the opinion of the
Court, ancillary to the wage fixing provisions and furnished the means through which regulations with respect
to wages having the force of law were to be arrived at.
On the other hand, the National Labor Relations Act is
designed solely to eliminate the burden on interstate
commerce caused by industrial strife. Such strife constitutes an interruption to wommerce operating directly
without "an efficient intervening agency or condition."
Thus it deals with matters closely connected with commerce, does not go beyond what is necessary for the protection of commerce, and does not attempt "a broad regulation of industry within the State."

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Respondent.

301 U.S.

Mr. Earl F. Reed, with whom Messrs. Charles Rosen
and W. D. Evans were on the brief, for respondent.
The respondent contends that the National Labor Relations Act is, in reality, a regulation of labor relations,
and not of interstate commerce, and that, as a consequence, it is not within the power of Congress to enact.
Even if it should be considered a true regulation of interstate commerce, it still has no application to the respondent's relations with its production employees, because
they are not subject to regulation by the Federal Government. In addition, 'the provisions of the Act which
the petitioner seeks to apply in the present cases
are invalid, because they violate § 2 of Art. III of the
Constitution, as well as the Fifth and Seventh Amendments.
The respondent is a corporation engaged in the manufacture of iron and steel products. In this connection, it
owns and operates a large steel plant at Aliquippa, Pennsylvania, in which are employed approximately ten thousand men. The present case is, in reality, a controversy
between ten individuals who were formerly employed by
the respondent in production work at this plant, and the
respondent. These individuals, with three others, filed
a complaint with the petitioner, the National Labor Relations Board, charging that they had been discharged
or demoted by the respondent because of union affiliations. The respondent objected to the jurisdiction of
the petitioner, but its motion to dismiss was overruled
and the petitioner, after hearing, determined that the
complainants had been wrongfully discharged and ordered
their immediate restoration, with compensation for lost
pay.
The petitioner has endeavored to justify its assumption
of jurisdiction over the respondent's employment relations, by making a finding that the respondent has en-

LABOR BOARD v. JONES & LAUGHLIN.

13

Argument for Respondent.
gaged in unfair labor practices "affecting commerce"
within the definition of the National Labor Relations
Act. The respondent insists that the facts upon which
this "finding" pretends to be based are, in law, insufficient
to justify any such conclusion, and that this Court is
entitled to reexamine the facts for the purpose of determining the jurisdictional issue. Crowell v. Benson, 285
U. S. 22; St. Joseph Stock Yards v. United States, 298
U. S. 38.
The National Labor Relations Act is not a true regulation of interstate commerce.
The -power of Congress is clearly defined by the commerce clause of the Constitution, and considerations of
political expediency have no weight in fixing the dividing line between the powers of Congress and the reserved
powers of the several States. The argument of the
petitioner is, in the last analysis, a plea that, from an
economic standpoint, Congress should have power to
apply its legislation to the respondent's employment relations. This, we submit, is entirely beside the point if
the exercise of such power would run counter to the Constitution.
The jurisdiction of Congress under the commerce
clause includes the power to regulate, restrict and protect interstate commerce; but not the right to use such
jurisdiction as a pretext for legislation which interferes
with the local sovereignty of the separate States. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1. The use of an admitted power
of Congress as a pretext to interfere with local activities
which are not subject to its jurisdiction, is to be condemned. The commerce clause will not serve as an excuse for legislating with respect to labor relations, which
do not constitute a part of interstate commerce. Schechter Poultry Corp. v. United States, 295 U. S. 495; Railroad Retirement Board v. Alton R. Co., 295 U. S. 330;
United States ,v. Butler, 297 U. S. 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Respondent.

301 U.S.

The legislative history of the National Labor Relations
Act and its substantive provisions ai'e sufficient to demonstrate that the Act, although disguised as a regulation
of interstate commerce, is, in actuality, a regulation of
labor. The terms of the statute apply to almost every
employer and every employee (§ 2), although the jurisdiction of the petitioner to enforce it is somewhat
circumscribed.
The provisions of the statute, if carefully analyzed, will
indicate that Congress is primarily concerned with the
protection and establishment of labor organizations. The
provisions condemning plant unions and sanctioning
"closed shop'" agreements, bear no reasonable relation
to interstate commerce. Similarly, the express preservation of the right to strike indicates that Congress was not
interested in preventing interruptions to the movement
of commerce. The interference with the employer's discretion to hire and fire is another reason for believing
that efficiency in the shipment of products in interstate
commerce has not been the object of the statute.
Congress has endeavored to save the statute from the
taint of invalidity by confining its enforcement to transactions "affecting commerce," which the Act defines as
transactions which burden commerce or lead or tend to
lead to a labor dispute which burdens commerce. § 2.
Despite this limitation on the enforcement of the Act, the
substantive provisions make no such exception and are,
in fact, broad enough to cover almost every employment
'relation.
The petitioner has followed the' same involved line of
reasoning in endeavoring to "find" that the respondent's
operations "affect commerce." Like Congress, it has
found itself faced with the task of piling premise upon
premise and hypothesis upon hypothesis to reach the
conclusion that the discharge of a few production em-

LABOR BOARD v. JONES & LAUGHLIN.

15

Argument for Respondent.

ployees at the respondent's plant has a vital bearing
upon the movement of interstate commerce. We submit
that the ultimate fact remains that Congress has enacted
a labor law, and not a regulation of commerce, and it
does not help to sustain the pretext that there may be
an indirect connection between the two. Carter v. Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S. 238.
The National Labor Relations Act can have no application to the respondent's relations with its production employees.
Although the respondent purchases raw materials,
which have a point of origin in other States, and ships a
large portion of its finished products across state lines, its
production activities, including its employment relations,
are not thereby subjected to the jurisdiction of Congress.
Howard v. Illinois Central R. Co., 207 U. S. 463. There
is no logical or legal connection between the respondent's
limited participation in interstate commerce and the
union affiliations of its production employees. Adair v.
United States, 208 U. S. 161; Hammer v. Dagenhart,247
U. S. 251; Railroad Retirement Board v. Alton R. Co.,
295 U. S. 330.
The principle which impeaches the validity of the National Labor Relations Act, viz., that federal po)wer over
interstate commerce must be confined to bona fide regulation of the movements of commerce, likewise prevents
the application of the statute in the present case. An
unbroken line of decisions under the commerce clause has
established that manufacturing and production activities
are not in or a part of interstate commerce, even though
they may be preceded or followed by the movement of
materials between States. Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1;
Arkadelphia Milling Co. v. St. Louis Southwestern Ry.
Co., 249 U. S. 134; Oliver Iron Co. v. Lord, 262 U. S. 172"
Utah Light & Power Co. v. Pfost, 286 U. S. 165; Chas-

16

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Respondent.

301 U.S.

saniol v. Greenwood, 291 U. S. 584; Industrial Association v. United States, 268 U. S. 64. Although most of the
decisions have dealt with the police or taxing powers of
the States, they are based upon the fundamental principle
that manufacturing activities are subject to the exclusive
jursdiction of the separate States. Bacon v. Illinois, 227
U. S. 504; Susquehanna Coal Co. v. South Amboy, 228
U. S. 665; Packer Corp. v. Utah, 285 U. S. 105; Nashville,
C. & St. L. Ry. v. Wallace, 288 U. S. 249; Edelman v.
Boeing Air Transport, 289 U. S. 249; Minnesota v. Blasius, 290 U. S. 1; Federal Compress Co. v. McLean, 291
U. S. 17; Cornell v. Coyne, 192 U. S. 418; Crescent Cotton Oil Co. v. Mississippi, 251 U. S. 129; Heisler v.
Thomas Colliery Co., 260 U. S. 245; Oliver Iron Co. V.
Lord, 262 U. S. 172; Champlin Refining Co. v. Corporation Commission, 286 U1 S. 210; United Mine Workers
v. Coronado Coal Co., 259 U. S. 344; United Leather
Workers v. Herkert & Meisel Trunk Co., 265 U. S. 457;
Delaware, L. & W. R. Co. v. Yurkonis, 238 U. S. 439.
The distinction between the local manufacturing activities of a business and its subsequent or precedent parficipation in interstate commerce has been maintained
in the field of labor relations. Hammer v. Dagenhart,
247 U. S. 251; Industrial Accident Com'n v. Davis, 259
U. S. 182. Even though an employee may be employed
in directly assisting the movement of products in interstate commerce, his relationship to his employer is a
status existing wholly within the State, whose incidents,
such as wages, hours of labor and the like, are purely
domestic in character. Carter v. Carter Coal Co., 298
U. S. 238.
Congressional regulation of the labor relations of interstate carriers furnishes no precedent for the present
Act. Because interstate carriers are instrumentalities of
the movement of commerce, and because they are public

LABOR BOARD v. JONES & LAUGHLIN.
1

17

Argument for Respondent.

utilities, Congress has subjected them to an exhaustive
scheme of regulation, of which the labor legislation is
merely an incident. As a result, the decision in Texas &
N. 0. R. Co. v. Railway Clerks, 281 U. S. 548, is not controlling.
Decisions such as Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S. 495,
and Chicago Board of Trade v. Olsen, 262 U. S. 1, which
sustain federal regulation of stockyards and grain exchanges, have no application to the present case. Grain
exchanges and stockyards are instrumentalities of interstate commerce in much the same sense as the actual
carriers of interstate commerce. They are focal points
through which the stream of commerce in grains and
cattle sweeps on its way from producer to the ultimate
consumer. The activities which were regulated in both
cases were activities in the stream of commerce and
exerted a direct effect upon its flow. Neither case sanctions the extension of the doctrine to production activities which may indirectly affect the stream of commerce.
Carter v. Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S. 238. Cf. Swift & Co.
v. United States, 196 U. S. 376; Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S.
44; Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United States, 280 U. S.
420. Tyson & Bro. v. Banton, 273 U. S. 418.
The petitioner relies upon decisions which have upheld
the application of the Anti-Trust Laws to industrial conspiracies, such as Coronado Coal Co. v. United Mine
Workers, 268 U. S. 295. These were cases involving conspiracies to restrain interstate commerce by means of
local combinations. The element of an intentional interference with the movement of interstate commerce was
essential in these cases, not only because an intent to
restrain commerce was a part of the proscribed offense,
but also because the existence of such an intent made the
effect on interstate commerce necessarily direct. This is
shown by a comparison of the first Coronado case, 259
146212*-37-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1936,
Argument for Respondent.

301 U.S.

U. S. 344, where there was no intent, with the second
Coronado case, 268 U. S. 295, where there was both direct and inferential evidence of intent. Cf. United
Leather Workers v. Herkert & Meisel Trunk Co., 265
U. S. 457.
The petitioner's efforts to show an intended restraint
in the present case are futile. Even if a strike should
occur at* the respondent's plant, the respondent could
not be held responsible for the voluntary intervening act
of outside agencies. The suggestion that the respondent
might be charged with an implied intent to destroy interstate trade, if a labor dispute should occur, is obviously
unsound.
The conspiracy cases, such as United Mine Workers v.
Coronado Coal Co., 259 U. S. 344, and Local 167 v.
United States, 291 U. S. 293, although primarily concerned with the application of the Anti-Trust Laws, prove
the fallacy of the petitioner's argument, because they
establish that Congress cannot regulate local transactions
or relations unless they exert a direct effect on interstate
commerce. The definition of "affecting commerce" in
the National Labor Relations Act is a confession of the
indirectness of the connection between the respondent's
labor relations and the movement of interstate commerce.
See Schechter Corp. v. United States, 295 U. S. 495; Industrial Association v. United States, 268 U. S. 64. The
petitioner calls attention to the fact that strikes may
and fiequently do produce an inhibitory effect on the
movement of interstate trade to and from the affected
area. This is the fundamental error in the petitioner's
argument, in that it assumes that it need only establish
the connection between strikes and the stoppage of commerce. There has been no strike or labor dispute in the
present case. In actuality, the petitioner means that the
respondent's discharge -of ten employees might have led
to dissatisfaction, which might have led to a labor dis-

LABOR BOARD v. JONES & LAUGHLIN.

19

Argument for Respondent.

pute, which might have led to a strike and a consequent
interruption of interstate commerce.
The findings of Congress that discriminatory discharges may lead to an interruption of commerce, are
unavailing. A declaration by Congress of the need of
regulation will not, automatically justify its action, where
its legislative firidtings run counter to established rules of
construction, which hold that there is no necessary and
direct connection between the relations of an employer
and his employees and the movement of interstate commerce. In this respect, the present case is clearly controlled by the decision in Carter v. Carter Coal Co., 298
U. S. 238.
There are dangerous implications in the petitioner's
argument. If it be accepted, there would be no reason
why Congress should not use its power over interstate
commerce as a pretext to stifle the sovereignty of the
States. We therefore believe that the Court will not
suffer the powers of the States to be whittled away by
a statute which piles speculation upon speculation to attain its ends. United States v. Butler, 297 U. S. 1;
Schechter Corp. v. United States, 295 U. S. 495.
The National Labor Relations Act confers upon the
petitioner exclusive original jurisdiction over controversies between an employee and his employer as to the
propriety of the employee's discharge, and the Board is
authorized to render affirmative relief to the employee,
including the restoration of his employment and compensation for lost wages. The findings of fact of the Board
are conclusive and only objections made before the Board
will be heard. The Act does not make any provision for
a trial de novo in the constitutional courts on constitutional or jurisdictional issues.
We submit that the Act is invalid because it authorizes the Board to award a money judgment, depriving
the employer of his right to trial by jury in cases in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Respondent.

301 U.S.

volving more than twenty dollars. If, as the petitioner
contends, the action of the Board should be considered
in the nature of a suit in equity, with authority in the
Board to award a mandatory injunction restoring employment, with incidental damages for back pay, then
the Act violates the provision of Art. III of the Constitution, for it deprives the constitutional courts of their
authority to try constitutional and jurisdictional issues.
The present case presents a controversy between employees and the respondent, in which the petitioner has
directed the restoration to employment of the complaining employees, with back pay. This being the case, it is
a controversy between private citizens, enforcing private
rights. The failure to provide means for a trial de novo
of jurisdictional issues in such a case is fatal. Crowell v.
Benson, 285 U. S. 22.
The proceedings of the Board are not comparable to
those of the Federal Trade Commission.
The petitibner's order constitutes an unlawful interference with the right of the respondent to manage its
own business.
The law has always been hesitant to interfere in questions of employer-employee relationships. From the
standpoint of the employee, the law has recognized that
he should not be forced into a relationship which may be
distasteful, and from the employer's viewpoint, the courts
have held that the right to judge the capabilities of employees is absolutely essential to the efficient management of the employer's business. The question of retaining or discharging an employee involves delicate considerations of discretion which the law is loath to attempt to
weigh. The facts of the present case show the dangers
of bureaucratic interference, in that each discharge involved some admitted fault on the part of the complaining employee, but the petitioner determined that it was

LABOR BOARD v. JONES & LAUGHLIN.

21

Argument for Respondent.

better qualified to decide and that the respondent's action had been too drastic. This is clearly an interference
with the normal right of the respondent to manage its
own business, because it is a dictatorial usurpation of the
respondent's discretion to determine the capabilities of
its employees.
Another dangerous implication of the law and of the
petitioner's decision is that it confers a kind of civil service
status upon union employees, which will inevitably encourage laziness, insolence, and inefficiency. This is confirmed by a notice which the petitioner, in its decision,
has ordered the respondent to post in its plants, to the
effect that it will not discharge members of the union.
It would be the equivalent of informing the employees
that if they become affiliated with the union, they will be
thenceforth immune from discharge.
We submit that the underlying philosophy of the National Labor Relations Act is a constant threat to the
respondent's normal right to manage its own business.
Not only does the Act provide, in effect, that an unqualified bureau will sit as a higher court over the respondent's
employment office, but it also ordains that the respondent
must deal with whatever union may be selected by a
majority of its employees and refuse to negotiate with
other employees or their representatives. The power
which it delegates to, a majority of the employees to bind
the minority is arbitrary and unfair and will necessarily
lead to the suffocation of minorities and to the closed shop,
forcing the employer to herd his employees into an organization which is not of their own choice. This will in
turn seriously disturb the discipline and morale of the
respondent's employees, with obvious injury to them and
to the respondent. Cf. Carter v. Carter Coal Co., 298
U. S. 238.

22

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
In a proceeding under the National Labor Relations
Act of 1935,1 the National Labor Relations Board found
that the respondent, Jones & Laughlin Steel Corporation,
had violated the Act by engaging in unfair labor practices
affecting commerce. The proceeding was instituted by
the Beaver Valley Lodge No. 200, affiliated with the
Amalgamated Association of Iron, Steel and Tin Workers
of America, a labor organization. The unfair labor practices charged were that the corporation was discriminating against members of the union with regard, to hire and
tenure of employment, and was coercing and intimidating its employees in order to interfere with their selforganization. The discriminatory and coercive action
alleged was the discharge of certain employees.
The National Labor Relations Board, sustaining the
charge, ordered the corporation to cease and desist from
such discrimination and coercion, to offer reinstatement
to ten of the employees named, to make good their losses
in pay, and to post for thirty days notices that the corporation would not discharge or discriminate against
members, or those desiring to become members, of the
labor union. As the corporation failed to comply, the
Board petitioned the Circuit Court of Appeals to enforce
the order. The court denied the petition, holding that
the order lay beyond the range of federal power. 83 F.
(2d) 998. We granted certiorari.
The scheme of the National Labor Relations Actwhich is too long to be quoted in full-may be briefly
stated. The first section sets forth findings with respect
to the injury to commerce resulting from the denial by
employers of the right of employees to organize and from
the refusal of employers to accept the procedure of col'Act of July 5, 1935, 49 Stat. 449, 29 U. S. C. 151.

LABOR BOARD v. JONES & LAUGHLIN.

23

Opinion of the Court.

lective bargaining. There follows a declaration that it is
the policy of the United States to eliminate these causes
of obstruction to the free flow of commerce.2 The Act
'This section is as follows:
"Section 1. The denial by employers of the right of employees to
organize and the refusal by employers to accept the procedure of collective bargaining lead to strikes and other forms of industrial strife
or unrest, which have the intent or the necessary effect of burdening
or obstructing commerce by (a) impairing the efficiency, safety, or
operation of the instrumentalities of commerce; (b) occurring in the
current of commerce; (c) materially affecting, restraining, or controlling the flow of raw materials or manufactured or processed goods
from or into the channels of commerce, or the prices of such materials or goods in commerce; or (d) causing diminution of employment
and wages in such volume as substantially to impair or disrupt the
market for goods flowing from or into the channels of commerce.
"The inequality of bargaining power between employees who do
not possess full freedom of association or actual liberty of contract,
and employers who are organized in the corporate or other forms of
ownership association substantially burdens and affects the flow of
emmerce, and tends to aggravate recurrent business depressions, by
depressing wage rates and the purchasing power of wage earners in
industry and by preventing the stabilization of competitive wage
rates and working conditions within and between industries.
"Experience has proved that protection by law of the right of
employees to organize and bargain collectively safeguards commerce
from injury, impairment, or interruption, and promotes the flow of
commerce by removing certain recognized sources of industrial strife
and unrest, by encouraging practices fundamental to the friendly
adjustment of industrial disputes arising out of differences as to
wages. hours, or other working conditions, and by restoring equality
of bargaining power between employers and employees.
"It is hereby declared to be the policy of the United States to
eliminate the causes of certain substantial obstructions to the free
flow of conamerce and to mitigate and eliminate these obstructions
when they have occurred by encouraging the practice and procedure
of collective bargaining and by protecting the exercise by workers of
full freedom of association, self-organization, and designation of representatives of their own choosing, for the purpose of negotiating the
terms and conditions of their employment or other mutual aid or
protection."

24

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

then defines the terms it uses, including the terms "commerce" and "affecting commerce." § 2. It creates the
National Labor Relations Board and prescribes its organization. §§ 3-6. It sets forth the right of employees to
self-organization and to bargain collectively through
representatives of their own choosing. § 7. It defines
"unfair labor practices." § 8. It lays down rules as to
the representation of employees for the purpose of collective bargaining. § 9. The Board is empowered to prevent the described unfair labor practices affecting commerce and the Act prescribes the procedure to that end.
The Board is authorized to petition designated courts to
secure the enforcement of its orders. The findings of the
Board as to the facts, if supported by evidence, are to be
conclusive. If either party on application to the court
shows that additional evidence is material and that there
were reasonable grounds for the failure to adduce such
evidence in the hearings before the Board, the court may
order the additional evidence to be taken. Any person
aggrieved by a final order of the Board may obtain a review in the designated courts with the same procedure as
in the case of an application by the Board for the enforcement of its order. § 10. The Board has broad powers of
investigation. § 11. Interference with members of the
Board or its agents in the performance of their duties
is punishable by fine and imprisonment. § 12. Nothing
in the Act is to be construed to interfere with the right to
strike. § 13. There is a separability clause to the effect
that if any provision of the Act or its application to any
person or circumstances shall be held invalid, the remainder of the Act or its application to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected. § 15. The particular
provisions which are involved in the instant case will be
considered more in detail in the course of the discussion.
The procedure in the instant case followed the statute.
The labor union filed with the Board its verified charge.

LABOR BOARD v. JONES & LAUGHLIN.

25

Opinion of the Court.

The Board thereupon issued its complaint against the
respondent alleging that its action in discharging the
employees in question constituted unfair labor practices
affecting commerce within the meaning of § 8, subdivisions (1) and (3), and § 2, subdivisions (6) and (7) of
the Act. Respondent, appearing specially for the purpose
of objecting to the jurisdiction of the Board, filed its
answer. Respondent admitted the discharges, but alleged
that they were made because of inefficiency or violation of
rules or for other good reasons and were not ascribable
to union membership or activities. As an affirmative
defense respondent challenged the constitutional validity
of the statute and its applicability in the instant case.
Notice of hearing was given and respondent appeared by
counsel. The Board first took up the issue of jurisdiction
and evidence was presented by both the Board and the
respondent. Respondent then moved to dismiss the complaint for lack of jurisdiction; and, on denial of that motion, respondent in accordance with its special appearance
withdrew from further participation in the hearing. The
Board received evidence upon the merits and at its close
made its findings and order.
Contesting the ruling of the Board, the respondent
argues (1) that the Act is in reality a regulation of labor
relations and not of interstate commerce; (2) that the
Act can have no application to the respondent's relations
with its production employees because they are not subject to regulation by the federal government; and (3)
that the provisions of the Act violate § 2 of Article III
and the Fifth and Seventh Amendments of the Constitution of the United States.
The facts as to the nature and scope of the business of
the Jones & Laughlin Steel Corporation have been found
by the Labor Board and, so far as they are essential to
the determination of this controversy, they are not in dispute. The Labor Board has found: The corporation is

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

organized under the laws of Pennsylvania and has its
principal office at Pittsburgh. It is engaged in the business of manufacturing iron and steel in plants situated in
Pittsburgh and nearby Aliquippa, Pennsylvania. It manufactures and distributes a widely diversified line of steel
and pig iron, being the fourth largest producer of steel in
the United States. With its subsidiaries-nineteen in
number-it is a completely integrated enterprise, owning
and operating ore, coal and limestone properties, lake and
river transportation facilities and terminal railroads located at its manufacturing plants. It owns or controls
mines in Michigan and Minnesota. It operates four ore
steamships on the Great Lakes, used in the transportation of ore to its factories. It owns coal mines in Pennsylvania. It operates towboats and steam barges used in
carrying coal to its factories. It owns limestone properties in various places in Pennsylvania and West Virginia.
It owns the Monongahela connecting railroad which connects the plants of the Pittsburgh works and forms an interconnection with the Pennsylvania, New York Central
and Baltimore and Ohio Railroad systems. It owns the
Aliquippa and Southern Railroad Company which connects the Aliquippa works with the Pittsburgh and Lake
Erie, part of the New York Central system. Much of its
product is shipped to its warehouses in Chicago, Detroit,
Cincinnati and Memphis,-to the last two places by
means of its own barges and transportation equipment.
In Long Island City, New York, and in New Orleans it
operates structural steel fabricating shops in connection
with the warehousing of semi-finished materials sent from
its works. Through one of its wholly-owned subsidiaries
it owns, leases and operates stores, warehouses and yards
for the distribution of equipment and supplies for drilling
and operating oil and gas wells and for pipe lines, refineries and pumping stations. It has sales offices in

LABOR BOARD v. JONES & LAUGHLIN.

27

Opinion of the Court.

twenty cities in the United States and a wholly-owned
subsidiary which is devoted exclusively to distributing its
product in Canada. Approximately 75 per cent. of its
product is shipped out of Pennsylvania.
Summarizing these operations, the Labor Board concluded that the works in Pittsburgh and Aliquippa "might
be likened to the heart of a self-contained, highly integrated body. They draw in the raw materials from
Michigan, Minnesota, West Virginia, Pennsylvania in
part through arteries and by means controlled by the respondent; they transform the materials and then pump
them out to all parts of the nation through the vast mechanism which the respondent has elaborated."
To carry on the activities of the entire steel industry,
33,000 men mine ore, 44,000 men mine coal, 4,000 men
quarry limestone, 16,000 men manufacture coke, 343,000
men manufacture steel, and 83,000 men transport its
product. Respondent has about 10,000 employees in its
Aliquippa plant, which is located in a community of about
30,000 persons.
Respondent points to evidence that the Aliquippa
plant, in which the discharged men were employed, contains complete facilities for the production of finished and
semi-finished iron and steel products from raw materials;
that its works consist primarily of a by-product coke
plant for the production of coke; blast furnaces for the
production of pig iron; open hearth furnaces and Bessemer converters for the production of steel; blooming mills
for the reduction of steel ingots into smaller shapes; and
a number of finishing mills such as structural mills, rod
mills, wire mills and the like. In addition there are other
buildings, structures and equipment, storage yards, docks
and an intra-plant storage system. Respondent's operations at these works are carried on in two distinct stages,
the first being the conversion of raw materials into pig

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

iron and the second being the manufacture of semi-finished and finished iron and steel products; and in both
cases the operations result in substantially changing the
character, utility and value of the materials wrought
upon, which is apparent from the nature and extent of
the processes to which they are subjected and which respondent fully describes. Respondent also directs attention to the fact that the iron ore which is procured from
mines in Minnesota and Michigan and transported to respondent's plant is stored in stock piles for future use, the
amount of ore in storage varying with the season but usually being enough to maintain operations from nine to ten
months; that the coal which is procured from the mines
of a subsidiary located in Pennsylvania and taken to the
plant at Aliquippa is there, like ore, stored for future use,
approximately two to three months' supply of coal being
always on hand; and that the limestone which is obtained
in Pennsylvania and West Virginia is also stored in
amounts usually adequate to run the blast furnaces for a
few weeks. Various details of operation, transportation,
and distribution are also mentioned which for the present
purpose it is not necessary to detail.
Practically all the factual evidence in the case, except
that which dealt with the nature of respondent's business,
concerned its relations with the employees in the Aliquippa plant whose discharge was the subject of the complaint. These employees were active leaders in the labor
union. Several were officers and others were leaders -of
particular groups. Two of the employees were motor inspectors; one was a tractor driver; three were crane operators; one was a washer in the coke plant; and three were
laborers. Three other employees were mentioned in the
complaint but it was withdrawn as to one of them and no
evidence was heard on the action taken with respect to the
other two.

LABOR BOARD v. JONES & LAUGHLIN.

29

Opinion of the Court.,
While respondent criticises the evidence and the attitude of the Board, which is described as being hostile
toward employers and particularly toward those who insisted upon their constitutional rights, respondent did not
take advantage of its opportunity to present evidence to
refute that which was offered to show discrimination and
coercion. In this situation, the record presents no ground
for setting aside the order of the Board so far as the facts
pertaining to the circumstances and purpose of the discharge of the employees are concerned. Upon that point
it is sufficient to say that the evidence supports the findings of the Board that respondent discharged these men
"because of their union activity and for the purpose of
discouraging membership in the union." We turn to the
questions of law which respondent urges in contesting the
validity and application of the Act.
First. The scope of the Act.-The Act is challenged
in its entirety as an attempt to regulate all industry, thus
invading the reserved powers of the States over their local
concerns. It is asserted that the references in the Act
to interstate and foreign commerce are colorable at best;
that the Act is not a true regulation of such commerce
or of matters which directly affect it but- on the contrary
has the fundamental object of placing under the compulsory supervision of the federal government all industrial labor relations within the nation. The argument
seeks support in the broad words of the preamble (section
one 8) and in the sweep of the provisions of the Act, and
it is further insisted that its legislative history shows an
essential universal purpose in the light of which its scope
cannot be limited by either construction or by the application of the separability clause.
If this conception of terms, intent and consequent
inseparability were sound, the Act would necessarily fall
See Note 2, supra, p. 23.

30

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

by reason of the limitation upon the federal power which
inheres in the constitutional grant, as well as because of
the explicit reservation of the Tenth Amendment.
Schechter Corp. v. United States, 295 U. S. 495, 549,
550, 554. The authority of the federal government may
not be pushed to such an extreme as to destroy the distinction, which the commerce clause itself establishes, between
commerce "among the several States" and the. internal
concerns of a State. That distinction between what is
national and what is local in the activities of commerce
is vital to the maintenance of our federal system. Id.
But we are not at liberty to deny effect to specific provisions, which Congress has constitutional power to enact,
by superimposing upon them inferences from general legislative declarations of an ambiguous character, even if
found in the same statute. The cardinal principle of
statutory construction is to save and not to destroy. We
have repeatedly held that as between two possible interpretations of a statute, by one of which it would be unconstitutional and by the other valid, our plain duty is
to adopt that which will save the act. Even to avoid
a serious doubt the rule is the same. Federal Trade
Comm'n v. American Tobacco Co., 264 U. S. 298, 307;
PanamaR. Co. v. Johnson, 264 U. S. 375, 390; Missouri
Pacific R. Co. v. Boone, 270 U. S. 466, 472; Blodgett v.
Holden, 275 U. S. 142, 148; Richmond Screw Anchor
Co. v. United States, 275 U. S. 331, 346.
We think it clear that the National Labor Relations
Act may be construed so as to operate within the sphere
of constitutional authority. The jurisdiction conferred
upon the Board, and invoked in this instance, is found in
§ 10 (a), which provides:
"SEc. 10 (a). The Board is empowered, as hereinafter
provided, to prevent any person from engaging in any
unfair labor practice (listed in section 8) affecting
commerce."

LABOR BOARD v. JONES & LAUGHLIN.

31

Opinion of the Court.

The critical words of this provision, prescribing the
limits of the Board's authority in dealing with the labor
practices, are "affecting commerce." The Act specifically
defines the "commerce" to which it refers (§ 2 (6)):
"The term 'commerce' means trade, traffic, commerce,
transportation, or communication among the several
States, or between the District of Columbia or any Territory of the United States and any State or other Territory,
or between any foreign country and any State, Territory,
or the District of Columbia, or within the District of
Columbia or any Territory, or between points in the same
State but through any other State or any Territory or the
District of Columbia or any foreign country."
There can be no question that the commerce thus contemplated by the Act (aside from that within a Territory
or the District of Columbia) is interstate and foreign
commerce in the constitutional sense. The Act also
defines the term "affecting commerce" (§ 2 (7)):
"The term 'affecting commerce' means in commerce, or
burdening or obstructing commerce or the free flow of
commerce, or having led or tending to lead to a labor dispute burdening or obstructing commerce or the free flow
of commerce."
This definition is one of exclusion as well as inclusion.
The grant of authority to the Board does not purport to
extend to the relationship between all industrial employees and employers. Its terms do not impose collective bargaining upon all industry regardless of effects
upon interstate or foreign commerce. It purports to
reach only what may be deemed to burden or obstruct
that commerce and, thus qualified, it must be construed
as contemplating the exercise of control within constitutional bounds. It is a familiar principle that acts which
directly burden or obstruct interstate or foreign commerce, or its free flow, are within the reach of the congressional power. Acts having that effect are not

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

rendered immune because they grow out of labor disputes.
See Texas & N. 0. R . Co. v. Railway Clerks, 281 U. S.
548, 570; Schechter Corp. v. United States, supra, pp. 544,
545; VirginianRailway v. System Federation,No. 40, 300
U. S. 515. It is the effect upon commerce, not the source
of the injury, which is the criterion. Second Employers'
Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 51. Whether or not particular action does affect commerce in such a close and
intimate fashion as t9 be subject to federal control, and
hence to lie within the authority conferred upon the
Board, is left by the statute to be determined as individual cases arise. We are thus to inquire whether in
the instant case the constitutional boundary has been
passed.
Second. The unfair labor practices in question.-The
unfair labor practices found by the Board are those
defined in § 8, subdivisions (1) and (3). These provide:
Sec. 8. It shall be an unfair labor practice for an employer"(1) To interfere with, restrain, or coerce employees in
the exercise of the rights guaranteed in section 7."
"(3) By discrimination in regard to hire or tenure of
employment or any term or condition of employment to
encourage or discourage membership in any labor
organization:

. .

' What is quoted above is followed by this proviso-not here involved--"Provided, That nothing in this Act, or in the National
Industrial Recovery Act (U. S. C., Supp. VII, title 15, secs. 701-712),
as amended from time to time, or in any code or agreement approved
or prescribed thereunder, or in any other statute of the United States,
shall preclude an employer from making an agreement with a labor
organization (not established, .'naintained, or assisted by any action
defined in this Act as an unfair labor practice) to require as a condition of employment membership therein, if such labor organization
is the representative of the employees as provided in section 9 (a), in
the appropriate collective bargaining unit covered by such agreement
when made."

LABOR BOARD v. JONES & LAUGHLIN.

33

Opinion of the Court.

Section 8, subdivision (1), refers to § 7, which is as
follows:
"Sec. 7. Employees shall have the right to self-organization, to form, join, or assist labor organizations, to
bargain collectively through representatives of their own
choosing, and to engage in concerted activities, for the
purpose of collective bargaining or other mutual aid or
protection."
Thus, in its present application, the statute goes no
further than to safeguard the right of employees to selforganization and to select representatives of their own
choosing for collective bargaining or other mutual protection without restraint or coercion by their employer.
That is a fundamental right. Employees have as clear
a right to organize and select their representatives for
lawful purposes as the respondent has to organize its
business and select its own officers and agents. Discrimination and coercion to prevent the free exercise of the
right of employees to self-organization and representation
is a proper subject for condemnation by competent legislative authority. Long ago we stated the reason for labor
organizations. We said that they were organized out of
the necessities of the situation; that a single employee
was helpless in dealing with an employer; that he was
dependent ordinarily on his daily wage for the maintenance of himself and family; that if the employer refused to pay him the wages that he thought fair, he was
nevertheless unable to leave the employ and resist arbitrary and unfair treatment; that union was essential to
give laborers opportunity to deal on an equality with
their employer. American Steel Foundries v. Tri-City
Central Trades Council, 257 U. S. 184, 209. We reiterated these views when we had under consideration the
Railway Labor Act of 1926. Fully recognizing the legality of collective action on the part of employees in
146212'-37-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

order to safeguard their proper interests, we said that
Congress was not required to ignore this right but could
safeguard it. Congress could seek to make appropriate
collective action of employees an instrument of peace
rather than of strife. We said that such collective action
would be a mockery if representation were made futile by
interference with freedom of choice. Hence the prohibition by Congress of interference with the selection of
representatives for the purpose of negotiation and conference between employers and employees, "instead of
being an invasion of the constitutional right of either,
was based on the recognition of the rights of both."
Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v. Railway Clerks, supra. We
have reasserted the same principle in sustaining the application of the Railway Labor'Act as amended in 1934.
Virginian Railway Co. v. System Federation, No. 40,
supra.
Third. The application of the Act to employees engaged in production.-The principle involved.-Respondent says that whatever may be said of employees engaged in interstate commerce, the industrial relations and
activities in the manufacturing department of respondent's enterprise are not subject to federal regulation.
The argument rests upon the proposition ,that manufacturing in itself is not commerce. Kidd v. Pearson, 128
U. S. 1, 20, 21; United Mine Workers v. Coronado Coal
Co., 259 U. S. 344, 407, 408; Oliver Iron Co. v. Lord,
262 U. S. 172, 178; United Leather Workers v. Herkert &
Meisel Trunk Co., 265 U. S. 457, 465; Industrial Association v. United States, 268 U. S. 64, 82; Coronado Coal
Co. v. United Mine Workers, 268 U. S. 295, 310; Schechter Corp. v. United States, supra, p. 547; Carterv. Carter
Coal Co., 298 U. S. 238, 304, 317, 327.
The Government distinguishes these cases. The various parts of respondent's enterprise are described as interdependent and as thus involving "a great movement of

LABOR BOARD v. JONES & LAUGHLIN.

35

Opinion of the Court.

iron ore, coal and limestone along well-defined paths to
the steel mills, thence through them, and thence in the
form of steel products into the consuming centers of the
country-a definite and well-understood course of business." It is urged that these activities constitute a
"stream" or "flow" of commerce, of which the Aliquippa
manufacturing plant is the focal point, and that industrial strife at that point would cripple the entire movement. Reference is made to our decision sustaining the
Packers and Stockyards Act.5 Stafford v. Wallace, 258
U. S. 495. The Court found that the stockyards were
but a "throat" through Which the current of commerce
flowed and the transactions which there occurred could
not be separated from that movement. Hence the sales
at the stockyards were not regarded as merely local transactions, for while they created "a local change of title"
they did not "stop the flow," but merely changed the
private interests in the subject of the current. Distinguishing the cases which upheld the power of the State to
impose a non-discriminatory tax upon property which
the owner intended to transport to another State, but
which was not in actual transit and was held within the
State subject to the disposition of the owner, the Court
remarked: "The question, it should be observed, is not
with respect to the extent of the power of Congress to
regulate interstate commerce, but whether a particular
exercise of state power in view of its nature and operation
must be deemed to be in conflict with this paramount
authority." Id., p. 526. See Minnesota v. Blasius, 290
U. S.1, 8. Applying the doctrine of Stafford v. Wallace,
supra, the Court sustained the Grain Futures Act of
1922 6 with respect to transactions on the Chicago Board
of Trade, although these transactions were "not in and
of themselves interstate commerce." Congress had found
'42 Stat. 159.
'42 Stat. 998.

36

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

that they had become "a constantly recurring burden and
obstruction to that commerce." Chicago Board of Trade
v. Olsen, 262 U. S. 1, 32; compare Hill v. Wallace, 259
U. S. 44, 69. See, also, Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United
States, 280 U. S. 420.
Respondent contends that the instant case presents
material distinctions. Respondent says that the Aliquippa plant is extensive in size and represents a large
investment in buildings, machinery and equipment. The.
raw materials which are brought to the plant are delayed
for long periods and, after being subjected to manufacturing processes, "are changed substantially as to character, utility and value." The finished products which
emerge "are to a large extent manufactured without reference to pre-existing orders and contracts and are entirely different from the raw materials which enter at the
other end." Hence respondent argues that "If importation and exportation in interstate commerce do not singly
transfer purely local activities into the field of congressional regulation, it should follow that their combination
would not alter the local situation." Arkadelphia Milling Co. v. St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co., 249 U. S. 134,
151; Oliver Iron Co. v. Lord, supra.
We do not find it necessary to determine whether these
features of defendant's business dispose of the asserted
analogy to the "stream of commerce" cases. The instances in which that metaphor has been used are but
particular, and not exclusive, illustrations of the protective power which the Government invokes in support of
the present Act. The congressional authority to protect
interstate commerce from burdens and obstructions is not
limited to transactions which can be deemed to be an
essential part of a "flow" of interstate or foreign commerce. Burdens and obstructions may be due to injurious action springing from other sources. The fundamental principle is that the power to regulate commerce is

LABOR BOARD v. JONES & LAUGHLIN.

37

Opinion of the Court.
the power to enact "all appropriate legislation" for "its
protection and advancement" (The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall.
557, 564); to adopt measures "to promote its growth and
insure its safety" (Mobile County v. Kimball, 102 U. S.
691, 696, 697); "to foster, protect, control and restrain."
Second Employers' Liability Cases, supra, p. 47. See
Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v. Railway Clerks, supra. That
power is plenary and may be exerted to protect interstate
commerce "no matter what the source of the dangers
which threaten it." Second Employers' Liability Cases,
p. 51; Schechter Corp. v. United States, supra. Although
activities may be intrastate in character when separately
considered, if they have such a close and substantial relation to interstate commerce that their control is essential
or appropriate to protect that commerce from burdens
and obstructions, Congress cannot be denied the power
to exercise that control. Schechter Corp. v. United States,
supra. Undoubtedly the scope of this power must be
considered in the light of our dual system of government
and may not be extended so as to embrace effects upon
interstate commerce so indirect and remote that to embrace them, in view of our complex society, would effectually obliterate the distinction between what is national
and what is local and create a completely centralized
government. Id. The question is necessarily one of degree. As the Court said in Chicago Board of Trade v.
Olsen, supra, p. 37, repeating what had been said in Stafford v. Wallace, supra: "Whatever amounts to more or
less constant practice, and threatens to obstruct or unduly
to burden the freedom of interstate commerce is within
the regulatory. power of Congress under the commerce
clause and it is primarily for Congress to consider and
decide the fact of the danger and meet it."
That intrastate activities, by reason of close and intimate relation to' interstate commerce, may fall within
federal control is demonstrated in the case of carriers who

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

are engaged in both interstate and intrastate transportation. There federal control has been found essential to
secure the freedom of interstate traffic from interference
or unjust discrimination and to promote the efficiency of
the interstate service. Shreveport Case, 234 U. S.342,
351, 352; Wisconsin Railroad Comm'n v. Chicago, B. &
Q. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563, 588. It is manifest that intrastate rates deal primarily with a local activity. But in
rate-making they bear such a close relation to interstate
rates that effective control of the one must embrace some
control over the other. Id. Under the Transportation
Act., 1920,1 Congress went so far as to authorize the Interstate Commerce Commission to establish a state-wide
level of intrastate rates in order to prevent an unjust discrimination against interstate commerce. Wisconsin Railroad Comm'n v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co., supra; Florida
v. United States, 212 U. S. 194, 210, 211. Other illustrations are found in the broad requirements of the Safety
Appliance Act and the Hours of Service Act. Southern
Railway Co. v. United States, 222 U. S.20; Baltimore.&
Ohio R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 221 U. S.
612. It is said that this exercise of federal power has relation to the maintenance of adequate instrumentalities of
interstate commerce. But the agency is not superior to
the commerce which uses it. The protective power extends to the former because it exists as to the latter.
The close and intimate effect which brings the subject
within the reach of federal power may be due to activities
in relation to productive industry although the industry
when separately viewed is local. This has been abundantly illustrated in the application of the federal AntiTrust Act. In the Standard Oil and American Tobacco
cases, 221 U. S.1, 106, that statute was applied to combinations of employers engaged in productive industry.
'§§ 416, 422, 41 Stat. 484, 488; Interstate Commerce Act, § 13 (4).

LABOR BOARD v. JONES & LAUGHLIN.
1

39

Opinion of the Court.

Counsel for the offending corporations strongly urged that
the Sherman Act had no application because the acts complained of were not acts of interstate or foreign commerce,
nor direct and immediate in their effect on interstate or
foreign commerce, but primarily affected manufacturing
and not commerce. 221 U. S. pp. 5, 125. Counsel relied
upon the decision in United States v. Knight Co., 156
U. S. 1.4 The Court stated their contention as follows:
"That the act, even if the averments of the bill be true,
cannot be constitutionally applied, because to do so would
extend the power of Congress to subjects dehors the reach
of its authority to regulate commerce, by enabling that
body to deal with mere questions of production of commodities within the States." And the Court summarily
dismissed the contention in these words: "But all the
structure upon which this argument proceeds is based
upon the decision in United States v. E. C. Knight Co.,
156 U. S. 1. The view, however, which the argument
takes of that case and the arguments based upon that
view have been so .repeatedly pressed upon this court in
connection with the interpretation and enforcement of
the Anti-trust -Act, and have been so necessarily and expressly decided to be unsound as to cause the contentions
to be plainly foreclosed and to require no express notice"
(citing cases). 221 U. S. pp. 68, 69.
Upon the same principle, the Anti-Trust Act has been
applied to the conduct of employees engaged in production. Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274; Coronado Coal Co.
v. United Mine Workers, supra; Bedford Cut Stone Co. v.
Stone Cutters' Assn., 274 U. S. 37. See, also, Local 167
v. United States, 291 U. S. 293, 397; Schechter Corp. v.
United States, supra. The decisions dealing with the question of that application illustrate both the principle and
its limitation. Thus, in the first Coronado case, the Court
held that mining was not interstate commerce, that the
power of Congress did not extend to its regulation as such.

40

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

and that it had not been shown that the activities there
involved-a local strike-brought them within the provisions of the Anti-Trust Act, notwithstanding the broad
terms of that statute. A similar conclusion was reached
in United Leather Workers v. Herkert & Meisel Trunk
Co., supra,Industrial Association v. United States, supra,
and Levering & GarriguesCo. v. Morrin, 289 U. S. 103,
107. But in the first Coronado case the Court also said
that "if Congress deems certain recurring practices,
though not really part of interstate commerce, likely to
obstruct, restrain or burden it, it has the power to subject them to national supervision and restraint." 259
U. S. p. 408. And in the second Coronado case the Court
ruled that while the mere reduction in the supply of an
article to be shipped in interstate commerce by the illegal
or tortious prevention of its manufacture or production is
ordinarily an indirect and remote obstruction to that commerce, nevertheless when the "intent of those unlawfully
preventing the manufacture or production is shown to
be to restrain or control the supply entering and moving
in interstate commerce, or the price of it in interstate markets, their action is a direct violation of .the Anti-Trust
Act." 268 U. S. p. 310. And the existence of that intent
may.be a necessary inference from proof of the direct and
substantial effect produced by the employees' conduct.
Industrial Association v. United States, 268 U. S. p. 81.
What was absent from the evidence in the first Coronado
case appeared in the second and the Act was accordingly
applied to the mining employees.
It is thus apparent that the fact that the employees
here concerned were engaged in production is not determinative. The question remains as to the effect upon
interstate commerce of the labor practice involved. In
the Schechter case, supra, we found that the effect there
was so remote as to be beyond the federal power. To find
"immediacy or directness" there was to find it "almost

LABOR BOARD v, JONES & LAUGHLIN.

41

Opinion of the Court.

everywhere," a result inconsistent with the 'maintenance
of our federal system. In the Carter case, supra, the
Court was of the opinion that the provisions of the statute
relating to production were invalid upon several
grounds,-that there was improper delegation of legislative power, and that the requirements not only went beyond any sustainable measure of protection of interstate
commerce but were also inconsistent with due process.
These cases are not controlling here.
Fourth. Effects of the unfair labor practice in respondent's enterprise.-Giving full weight to respondent's contention with respect to a break in the complete continuity
of the "stream of commerce" by reason of respondent's
manufacturing operations, the fact remains that the stoppage of those operations by industrial strife would have
a most serious effect upon interstate commerce. In view
of respondent's far-flung activities, it is idle to say that
the effect would be indirect or remote. It is obvious that
it would be immediate and might be catastrophic. We
are asked to shut our eyes to the plainest facts of our national life and to deal with the question of direct and indirect effects in an intellectual vacuum. Because there
may be but indirect and remote effects upon interstate
commerce in connection with a host of local enterprises
throughout the country, it does not follow that other industrial activities do not have such a close and intimate
relation to interstate commerce as to make the presence of
industrial strife a matter of the most urgent national concern. When industries organize themselves on a national
scale, making their relation to interstate commerce the
dominant factor in their activities, how can it be maintained that their industrial labor relations constitute a
forbidden field into which Congress may not enter when
it is necessary to protect interstate commerce from the
paralyzing consequences of industrial war? We have
often said that interstate commerce itself is a practical

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

conception. It is equally true that interferences with that
commerce must be appraised by a judgment that does not
ignore actual experience.
Experience has abundantly demonstrated that the
recognition of the right of employees to self-organization
and to have representatives of their own choosing for the
purpose of collective bargaining is often an essential condition of industrial peace. Refusal to confer and
negotiate has been one of the most prolific causes of
strife. This is such an outstanding fact in the history of
labor disturbances that it is a proper subject of judicial
notice and requires no citation of instances. The opinion
in the case of Virginian Railway Co. v. System Federation, No. 40, supra, points out that, in the case of carriers,
experience has shown that before the amendment, of
1934, of the Railway Labor Act "when there was no dispute as to the organizations authorized to represent the
employees and when there was a willingness of the employer to meet such representative for a discussion of
their grievances, amicable adjustment of differences had
generally followed and strikes had been avoided." That,
on the other hand, "a prolific source of dispute had been
the maintenance by the railroad of company unions and
the denial by railway management of the authority of
representatives chosen by their employees." The opinion
in that case also points to the large measure of success
of the labor policy embodied in the Railway Labor Act.
But with respect to the appropriateness of the recognition
of self-organization and representation in the promotion
of peace, the question is not essentially different in the
case of employees in industries of such a character that
interstate commerce is put in jeopardy from the case of
employees of transportation companies. And of what
avail is it to protect the facility of transportation, if interstate commerce is throttled with respect to the commodities to be transported!

LABOR BOARD v. JONES & LAUGHLIN.

43

Opinion of the Court.
These questions have frequently engaged the attention of Congress and have been the subject of many inquiries.8 The steel industry is one of the great basic
industries of the United States, with ramifying activities
affecting interstate commerce at every point. The Government aptly refers to the steel strike of 1919-1920 with
its far-reaching consequences.' The fact that there appears to have been no major disturbance in that industry
in the more recent period did not dispose of the possibilities of future and like dangers to interstate commerce
which Congress was entitled to foresee and to exercise its
protective power to forestall. It is not necessary again
to detail the facts as to respondent's enterprise. Instead
of being beyond the pale, we think that it presents in a
most striking way the close and intimate relation which a
manufacturing industry may have to interstate commerce
and we have no doubt that Congress had constitutional
authority to safeguard the right of respondent's employees to self-organization and freedom in the choice of
representativ'es for ,collective bargaining.
Fifth. The mean&which the Act employs.--Questions
under the due process clause and other constitutional restrictions.-Respondent asserts its right to conduct its
business in an orderly manner without being subjected to
arbitrary restraints. What we have said points to the fallacy in the argument. Employees have their correlative
'See, for example, Final Report of the Industrial Commission
(1902), vol. 19, p. 844; Report of the Anthracite Coal Strike Commission (1902), Sen. Doe. No. 6, 58th Cong., spec. sess.; Final Report
of Commission on Industrial Relations (1916), Sen. Doc. No. 415,
64th Cong., 1st sess., vol. I; National War Labor Board, Principles
and Rules of Procedure (1919), p. 4; Bureau of Labor Statistics,
Bulletin No. 287 (1921), pp. 52-64; History of the Shipbuilding
Labor Adjustment Board, U. S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, Bulletin
No. 283.
' See Investigating Strike in Steel Industries, Sen. Rep. No. 289,
66th Cong., 1st sess.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

right to organize for the purpose of securing the redress
of grievances and to promote agreements with employers
relating to rates of pay and conditions of work. Texas &
N. 0. R. Co. v. Railway Clerks, supra; Virginian Railway
Co. v. System Federation,No. /0. Restraint for the purpose of preventing an unjust interference with that right
cannot be considered arbitrary or capricious. The provision of § 9 (a) 0 that representatives, for the purpose of
collective bargaining, of the majority of the employees in
an appropriate unit shall be the exclusive representatives
of all the employees in that unit, imposes upon the respondent only the duty of conferring and negotiating
with the authorized representatives of its employees for
the purpose of settling a labor dispute. This provision
has its analogue in § 2, Ninth, of the Railway Labor Act
which was under consideration in Virginian Railway Co.
v. System Federation,No. 40, supra. The decree which
we affirmed in that case required the Railway Company
to treat with the representative chosen by the employees
and also to refrain from entering into collective labor
agreements with anyone other than their true representative as ascertained in accordance with the provisions of
the Act. We said that the obligation to treat with the
true representative was exclusive and hence imposed the
negative duty to treat with no other. We also pointed
out that, as conceded by the Government,' the injunc"The provision is as follows: "SEC. 9 (a) Representatives designated or selected for the purposes of collective bargaining by the
majority of the employees in a unit appropriate for such purposes,
shall be the exclusive representatives of all the employees in such
unit for the purposes of collective bargaining in respect to rates of
pay, wages, hours of employment, or other conditions of employment:
Provided, That any individual employee or a group of employees
shall have the right at any time to present grievances to their
employer."
" See Virginian Railway Co. v. System Federation, No. 40, 300

U. S. 515.

LABOR BOARD v. JONES & LAUGHLIN.

45

Opinion of the Court.
tion against the Company's entering into any contract
concerning rules, rates of pay and working conditions except with a chosen representative was "designed only to
prevent collective bargaining with anyone purporting to
represent employees" other than the representative they
had selected. It was taken "to prohibit the negotiation of
labor contracts generally applicable to employees" in the
described unit with any other representative than the one
so chosen, "but not as precluding such individual contracts" as the Company might "elect to make directly
with individual employees." We think this construction
also applies to § 9 (a) of the National Labor Relations
Act.
The Act does not compel agreements between employers and employees. It does not compel any agreement
whatever. It does not prevent the employer "from refusing to make a collective contract and hiring individuals on whatever terms" the employer "may by unilateral
action determine." 12 The Act expressly provides in § 9
(a) that any individual employee or a group of employees
shall have the right at any time to present grievances
to their employer. The theory of the Act is that free
opportunity for negotiation with accredited representatives of employees is likely to promote industrial peace
and may bring about the adjustments and agreements
which the Act in itself does not attempt to compel. As
we said in Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v. Railway Clerks, supra,
and repeated in Virginian Railway Co. v. System Federation, No. 40, supra, the cases of Adair v. United States,
208 U. S. 161, and Coppage v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 1, are
inapplicable to legislation of this character. The Act
does not interfere with the normal exercise of the right
of the employer to select its employees or to discharge
them. The employer may not, under cover of that right,
intimidate or coerce its employees with respect to their
"See Note 11.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

self-organization and representation, and, on the other
hand, the Board is not entitled to make its authority a
pretext for interference with the right of discharge when
that right is exercised for other reasons than such intimidation and coercion. The true purpose is the subject of
investigation with full opportunity to show the facts. It
would seem that when employers freely recognize the
right of their employees to their own organizations and
their unrestricted right of representation there will be
much less occasion for controversy in respect to the free
and appropriate exercise of the right of selection and discharge.
The Act has been criticised as one-sided in its application; that it subjects the employer to supervision and
restraint and leaves untouched the abuses for which employees may be responsible; that it fails to provide a
more comprehensive plan,-with better assurances of
fairness to both sides and with increased chances of success in bringing about, if not compelling, equitable solutions of industrial disputes affecting interstate commerce.
But we are dealing with the power of Congress, not with a
particular policy or with the extent to which policy should
go. We have frequently said that the legislative authority, exerted within its proper field, need not embrace
all the evils within its reach. The Constitution does not
forbid "cautious advance, step by step," in dealing with
the evils which are exhibited in activities within the
range of legislative power. Carroll v. Greenwich Insurance Co., 199 U. S. 401, 411; Keokee Coke Co. v. Taylor,
234 U. S. 224, 227; Miller v. Wilson, 236 U. S. 373, 384;
Sproles v. Binford, 286 U. S. 374, 396. The question in
such cases is whether the legislature, in whht it does
prescribe, has gone beyond constitutional limits.
The procedural provisions of the Act are assailed. But
these provisions, as we construe them, do not offend
against the constitutional requirements governing the

LABOR BOARD v. JONES & LAUGHLIN.

47

Opinion of the Court.

creation and action of administrative bodies. See Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Louisville & Nashville R.
Co., 227 U. S. 88, 91. The Act establishes standards to
which the Board must conform. There must be complaint, notice and hearing. The Board must receive evidence and make findings. The findings as to the facts
are to be conclusive, but only if supported by evidence.
The order of the Board is subject to review by the designated court, and only when sustained by the court may
the order be enforced. Upon that review all questions
of the jurisdiction of the Board and the regularity of its
proceedings, all questions of constitutional right or statutory authority, are open to examination by the court.
We construe the procedural provisions as affording adequate opportunity to secure judicial protection against arbitrary action in accordance with the well-settled rules
applicable to administrative agencies set up by Congress
to aid in the enforcement of valid legislation. It is not
necessary to repeat these rules which have frequently
been declared. None of them appears to have been transgressed in the instant case. Respondent was notified
and heard. It had opportunity to meet the charge of
unfair labor practices upon the merits, and by withdrawing from the hearing it declined to avail itself of that
opportunity. The facts found by the Board support its
order and the evidence supports the findings. Respondent
has no just ground for complaint on this score.
The order of the Board required the reinstatement of
the employees who were found to have been discharged
because of their "union activity" and for the purpose
of "discouraging membership in the union." That requirement was authorized by the Act. § 10 (c). In
Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v. Railway Clerks, supra, a similar
order for restoration to service was made by the court
in contempt proceedings for the violation of an injunction issued by the court to restrain an interference with

48

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

the right of employees as guaranteed by the Railway
Labor Act of 1926. The requirement of restoration to
service, of employees discharged in violation of the provisions of that Act, was thus a sanction imposed in the
enforcement of a judicial decree. We do not doubt that
Congress could impose a like sanction for the enforcement of its valid regulation. The fact that in the one
case it was a judicial sanction, and in the other a legislative one, is not an essential difference in determining its
propriety.
Respondent complains that the Board not only ordered
reinstatement but directed the payment of wages for the
time lost by the discharge, less amounts earned by the
employee during that period. This part of the order was
also authorized by the Act. § 10 (c). It is argued that
the requirement is equivalent to a money judgment and
hence contravenes the Seventh Amendment with respect
to trial by jury. The Seventh Amendment provides that
"In suits at common law, where the value in controversy
shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall
be preserved." The Amendment thus preserves the right
which existed under the common law when the Amendment was adopted. Shields v. Thomas, 18 How. 253, 262;
In re Wood, 210 U. S. 246, 258; Dimick v. Schiedt, 293
U. S. 474, 476; Baltimore & Carolina Line v. Redman,
295 U. S. 654, 657. Thus it has no application to cases
where recovery of money damages is an incident to equitable relief even though damages might have been recovered in an action at law. Clark v. Wooster, 119 U. S.
322, 325; Pease v. Rathbun-Jones Engineering Co., 243
U. S. 273, 279. It does not apply where the proceeding is
not in the nature of a suit at common law. Guthrie Na..
tional Bank v. Guthrie, 173 U. S. 528, 537.
The instant case is not a suit at common law or in the
nature of such a suit. The proceeding is one unknown
to the common law. It is a statutory proceeding. Reinstatement of the employee and payment for time lost are

LABOR BOARD v. FRUEHAUF CO.
Statement of the Case.

1

requirements imposed for violation of the statute and are
remedies appropriate to its enforcement. The contention
under the Seventh Amendment is without merit.
Our conclusion is that the order of the Board was within
its competency and that the Act is valid as here applied.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and the cause is remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
For dissenting opinion, see p. 76.
NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v. FRUEHAUF TRAILER CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 420 and 421.

Argued February 11, 1937.-Decided April 12,
1937.

The National Labor Relations Act, and orders made under it by
the National Labor Relations Board, sustained upon the authority
of National Labor Relations Board v. Jones & Laughlin. Steel
Corp., ante, p. 1, as applied to a manufacturer of commercial
"trailers," (vehicles designed for the transportation of merchandise), having its factory in Michigan, but which obtained from
outside of Michigan more than 50% in value of the materials and
parts used in the plant, and shipped to States other than Michigan
and to foreign countries more than 80% of its finished products.
P. 53.
85 F. (2d) 391, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 299 U. S. 534, to review two decrees of the
Circuit Court of Appeals, one dismissing a petition of the
National Labor Relations Board for the enforcement of
an order made by it under the National Labor Relations
Act, the other setting the order aside at the petition of
the trailer company.
146212-37-4

