THOMAS v. PERKINS.
646

Syllabus.

Providence Insurance Co., supra, pp. 108, 109. See, also,
The John Russell, 68 F. (2d) 901, 902.
Construing the policies in this instance as indemnifying
the carrier against the liability which it had assumed by
its bills of lading and tariffs to the cargo owners, the payments by the underwriters operated as a discharge of
their obligation to the carrier, and while, as the cargo
owners had the benefit of the insurance, the underwriters
could be subrogated to the right of the cargo owners
against the "King," they could not use that right to recover over against the carrier in defiance of their own stipulation. They could recover against the "King" the
moiety for which the "King" was liable but could not recover against the petitioner. The procedure in admiralty
did not affect the substantive rights established by the
policies.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and the cause is remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Re)ersed.
THOMAS, COLLECTOR, v. PERKINS ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 824.

Argued May 4, 5, 1937.-Decided June 1, 1937.

1. The federal income tax Act is to be given a uniform construction
of nation-wide application except in so far as Congress has made
it dependent on state law. P. 659.
2. An instrument assigning oil leases for a specified sum "to be paid
out of the oil produced and saved from the lands, and to be onefourth of all the oil produced and saved" until that sum was paid,
provided that the "oil payment" should be made to the two
assignors, each to receive one-half thereof "out of the oil produced
and saved" from the leased premises, "which payments shall be
made by the pipe-line company or other purchaser of said oil"
and be "one-fourth of all the oil produced and saved" from the

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

land, "until the full sum is fully paid." It further stipulated that
the specified sum should be "payable out of oil only, if, as and
when produced from said lands"; that "said oil payment" should
not be a personal obligation of the assignee and that it would
"bear none of the expenses of the development of said oil leases
or any other burden." No lien was reserved by the assignors.
Held, without deciding whether technical title to the oil while in
the ground was in assignors-or in assignee,
(1) That the intention was to withold from the operation of
the grant one-fourth of the oil to be produced and saved up to an
amount sufficient when sold to yield the sum stipulated. P. 659.
This construction was confirmed by the acts of the parties
under the assignment.
(2) That the amounts received by the assignors from the proceeds of operation were not chargeable for income tax purposes to
the asignee as part of his gross income. Id.
86 F. (2d) 954, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 300 U. S. 653, to review the reversal of a
judgment rendered in favor of the Collector, in an action
to recover a tax payment, tried without a jury.

Mr. J. Louis Monarch, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, Assistant Attorney General Morris, and Mr. Sewall
Key were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Harry C. Weeks for the respondents.
MR. JUsTIcE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Respondents, husband and wife, sued in the district
court for northern Texas to recover a portion of the tax
they paid for 1933 on their community income. In respect of the amount now in controversy, that court gave
judgment for defendant (15 F. Supp. 356); the Circuit
Court of Appeals reversed (86 F. (2d) 954) and, its decision being in apparent conflict with that of the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit in Comar Oil Co.
v. Burnet, 64 F. (2d) 965, this court granted the collector's
petition for a writ of certiorari.

THOMAS v. PERKINS.
655

Opinion of the Court.

Hammonds and Branson owned oil and gas leases on
undeveloped lands in Texas which provided for a royalty
of one-eighth. They assigned to the Faith Oil Company
which was principally owned by Green and Perkins. In
taking the assignment the company acted for itself to the
extent of one-fourth and for Green and Perkins to the
extent of three-eighths each. Later it transferred its interest to Perkins. So far as concerns the question here
presented, Perkins may be treated as sole assignee of
Hammonds and Branson. The assignment recites that
they are owners of all rights under or incident to the
leases and declares that "in consideration of the sum of
Ten Dollars ($10.00) cash'
. . . and of the further
sum of Three Hundred Ninety-Five Thousand Dollars
($395,000.00) to be paid out of the oil produced and
saved from the . . . lands, and to be one-fourth of all the
oil produced and saved . . . until the full sum . . . is

paid, we . . . do hereby bargain, sell, transfer, assign, and
convey all our rights, title, and interest in and to said
leases and rights thereunder."
After description of the lands and leaseholds, the assignment provides that the oil payment shall be made to the
assignors, Hammonds and Branson, each to receive onehalf thereof, "out of the oil produced and saved from" the
leased premises, "which payments shall be made by the
pipe line company or other purchaser of said oil, and shall
be one-fourth (1/4) of all the oil produced and saved from
the above described land, until the full sum . . . is fully
paid." It is understood and agreed that the $395,000 "is
payable out of oil only, if, as and when produced from
said lands above described, and said oil payment does not
constitute and shall not be a personal obligation of the
assignee, its successors or assigns. . . . The oil payment
1 Contemporaneously with the assignment there was paid $105,000
in cash and $50,000 in notes.
146212°-37-

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

. .. shall bear none of the expenses, of the development

of said leases or any other burden." The instrument does
not purport to reserve a lien.
Perkins drilled wells on the leased lands and in 1933
produced oil; the assignors received substantial amounts
to apply on the payment to be made them; the oil was
run from the wells into tanks on the leased premises from
which it was taken by pipeline companies purchasing the
oil. Each purchaser required and was furnished a division
order executed by all the interested parties. By such orders assignors authorized purchasers to receive from the
wells one-fourth of the oil and declared that the oil run
should become the property of the purchasers as soon as
received by them. In accordance with the orders, purchasers made payments directly and proportionately to
the owner of the royalty reserved in the lease, to assignors,
and to assignee. The last could not collect for any portion of the oil applicable to the oil payment to be made
assignors.
In their tax return for 1933 respondents, Perkins and
wife, did not include in income any part of the proceeds
that went to assignors. But the commissioner charged
the amounts received by the assignors to the respondents
and allowed the -latter depletion in respect of the same.
At the trial it was proved that the long-established practice of the bureau was not to require the operator of an oil
and gas lease to include as a part of his income the royalties payable in kind to the lessors. But where they were
payable in cash the operator included the proceeds of all
the oil and took as an offsetting deduction the amount of
royalties paid. It was admitted that, if the assignors'
payments are excluded, the depletion allowed respondents
should be correspondingly reduced.
The question is whether respondents' gross income
should include moneys paid to assignors by purchasers of
the oil.

THOMAS v. PERKINS.
655

Opinion of the Court.

We need not decide whether technical title to the oil
while in the ground was in assignors, or in assignee. The
federal income tax Act is to be given a uniform construction of nation-wide application except insofar as Congress
has made it dependent on state law.2 The granting clause
in the assignment would be sufficient, if standing alone,
to transfer all the oil to the assignee. It does not specifically except or exclude any part of the oil. But it is qualified by other parts of the instrument. The provisions for
payment to assignors in oil only, the absence of any obligation of the assignee to pay in oil or in money, and the
failure of assignors to take any security by way of lien
or otherwise unmistakably show that they intended to
withhold from the operation of the grant one-fourth of the
oil to be produced and saved up to an amount sufficient
when sold to yield $395,000.
The construction that the parties put upon the assignment makes for the same conclusion. There is no suggestion that, having taken title, the assignee transferred any
of the oil back to assignors. The division orders designated, and so served to indicate ownership of, the quantities belonging to each of the interested parties. And, in
the circumstances, the orders given and proceeds received
by assignors necessarily covered and were derived from
oil not transferred by the assignment.
Our decision in Palmer v.,Bender, 287 U. S.551, supports the view that the assignment did not transfer the
2 Lynch

v. Alworth-Stephens Co., 267 U. S. 364, 370.

Corliss v.

Bowers, 281 U. S. 376, 378. Tyler v. United States, 281 U. S. 497,
503. Burnet v. Harmel, 287 U. S.103, 110. Palmer v. Bender, 287
U. S. 551, 556. Burnet v. Guggenheim, 288 U. S. 280, 284. Helvering v. Falk, 291 U. S. 183, 188.
"Sheffield v. Hogg, 124 Tex. 290; 77 S.W. (2d) 1021. See Waggoner Estate v. Sigler Oil Co., 118 Tex. 509; 19 S. W. (2d) 27.
Hager v. Stakes, 116 Tex. 453; 294 S.W. 835. Stephens County v.
Mid-Kansas Oil & Gas Co., 113 Tex. 160; 254 S. W. 290. Texas
Co. v. Daugherty, 107 Tex. 226; 176 S.W. 717.

660

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

oil in question. We there construed § 214 (a) (10),
Revenue Act of 1921, 42 Stat. 241, which directed a reaSonable allowance for depletion in the case of oil and gas
wells "according to the peculiar conditions in each case"
and "that such depletion allowance based on discovery
value shall not exceed the net income, computed without
allowance for depletion, from the property upon which
the discovery is made . . . In the case of leases the deductions allowed . . . shall be equitably apportioned
between the lessor and the lessee."
The taxpayer, Palmer, was a member of a partnership
that acquired oil and gas leases, discovered oil, executed
a Writing conferring on a company the right to take over
a part of the leased property in consideration of a present
payment of a cash bonus, and future payments to be
made "out of one-half of the first oil produced and saved"
to the extent of $1,000,000, and an additional "excess
royalty" of one-eighth of all the oil produced and saved.
The writing declared that the partnership "does sell, assign, set over, transfer and deliver . . . unto the" oil
company the described leased premises.
In his tax return, Palmer reported his share of the income derived by the partnership from the bonus payment
and oil received under its contract with the oil company
and, relying on § 214 (a) (10), made a deduction for depletion based on value of oil in place on the date of discovery. The commissioner refused to allow the deduction
on the theory that the transaction was a sale of the leases
by the partnership, and that the only allowable deduction
was one based upon the cost of the property. As cost was
less than the discovery value, the commissioner's allowance of depletion was less than that claimed by Palmer
and the tax was correspondingly greater. He paid it, and
sued the collector to recover the amount by which the
commissioner's ruling operated to increase his burden.
The district court upheld the commissioner's ruling, the
Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed, this Court reversed.

THOMAS v. PERKINS.
655

Opinion of the Court.

We said (pp. 557-558): "The language of the statute is
broad enough to provide, at least, for every case in which
the taxpayer has acquired, by investment, any interest in
the oil in place, and secures, by any form of legal relationship, income derived from the extraction of the oil, to
which he must look for a return of his capital. . . Similarly, the lessor's right to a depletion allowance does not
depend upon his retention of ownership or any other particular form of legal interest in the mineral content of
the land. It is enough if, by virtue of the leasing
transaction, he has retained a right to share in the oil
produced. If so he has an economic interest in the oil, in
place, which is depleted by production. Thus, we have
recently held that the lessor is entitled to a depletion
allowance on bonus and royalties, although by the local
law ownership of the minerals, in place, passed from the
lessor upon the execution of the lease. . . Thus,
throughout their changing relationships with respect to
the properties, the oil in the ground was a reservoir
of capital investment of the several parties, all of
whom . . . were entitled to share in the oil produced."
Thus in that case we held assignors' mere stipulation
for royalty out of oil operated to save to them an economic interest in the oil sufficient to entitle them to deduct from their income derived from the oil an allowance
for depletion. If Palmer had retained no interest in the
oil he would have been entitled to no deduction on account of depletion. Ownership was essential. The assignee was not entitled to income from Palmer's share
of the oil nor to deduct from the income it received from
its own interest any part of the depletion allowance that
was attributable to Palmer's interest.
Helvering v. Twin Bell Oil Syndicate, 293 U. S. 312,
construed depletion provisions in the Revenue Act of 1926
which so far as concerns ownership are not to be distinguished from corresponding provisions considered in

662

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

Palmer v. Bender, supra. Section 204 (c) (2) declared
that in the case of oil and gas wells "the allowance for depletion shall be 27
per cent. of the gross income from
the property during the taxable year." Section 234 (a)
(8) required the deductions allowed to be equitably apportioned between the lessor and lessee. The taxpayer,
assignee of the lease, extracted substantial quantities of
oil. By the terms of the lease and assignment he was obligated to pay royalties in cash or kind totalling one-fourth
of the oil. He claimed that gross proceeds of all the oil
should form the basis for computation of the allowance
for depletion. The commissioner ruled that the deduction
should be limited to 271/2 per cent. of the gross production
less royalties. The Board of Tax Appeals upheld that ruling; the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the Board; we
sustained the Commissioner. Our opinion shows that the
phrase, "income from the property," means income from
oil and gas only; that, where the lessee turns over royalty
oil in kind to the lessor, the amount retained by lessee is
the basis for his computation of depletion and the royalty
oil is the basis for that allowable to lessor. In that connection we suggested that Congress did not intend a different result where the lessee sells all the oil and pays
over the royalty in the form of cash. And in approval of
the Commissioner's ruling we said (p. 321): "The apportionment gives respondent 271/2 per cent. of the gross income from production which it had the right to retain and
the assignor and lessor respectively 271/2 per cent. of the
royalties they receive. Such an apportionment has regard
to the economic interest of each of the parties entitled to
participate in -the depletion allowance. Compare Palmer
v. Bender, 287 U. S. 551. 558."
As in the earlier of these cases the assignor was entitled.
to deduct depletion from income he received from his interest in the oil, so in the later one the assignee was not
entitled to deduct from inconme received from its share an

THOMAS v. PERKINS.
655

STONE

and CmnDozo, JJ., dissenting.

allowance for depletion attributable to the assignor's interest. The owner of an interest in the deposit is entitled
to deduct for depletion of the part producing his income
but may not deduct for depletion of a share belonging to
another.
As Hammonds and Branson, the assignors in this case,
would be entitled to an allowance for depletion in respect
of the oil sold out of their share,4 the income from that
interest is not chargeable to respondents, Perkins and
wife. It follows that the Commissioner. erred in including in their income the payments made by purchasers to
assignors for their share of the oil.
Affirmed.

and MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO think the
oil and gas produced by the assignee of the lease, and
their proceeds, were his income and not any the less so
because he agreed to apply a part to payment of the purchase price of the lease, and gave an equitable lien to
secure the payment. Whether the purchase price, when
paid, represented a capital gain taxable to the assignors,
and whether in that case their interest would be subject
to a depletion allowance under our decision in Palmer v.
Bender, 287 U. S. 551, are questions irrelevant to the
present issue. The judgment should be reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

4Revenue Act of 1932, §§ 23 (1), 114 (b) (3), 47 Stat. 181, 202.
Palmer v. Bender, 287 U. S. 551. Helvering v. Twin Bell Oil Syndicate, 293 U. S. 312.

