OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Statement of the Case.

301 U. S.

U. S. ex rel. Greathouse v. Dern, 289 U. S. 352. But to
try petitioner's equitable right to the refund here is to
make the writ of mandamus serve the purpose of an ordinary suit and to depart from the settled rule that the
writ of mandamus may not be employed to secure the
adjudication of a disputed right for which an ordinary
suit affords a remedy equally, adequate, and complete.
See Ex parte Baldwin, 291 U. S. 610, 619; Reeside v.
Walker, 11 How. 272, 292; United States v. Duell, 172
U. S. 576, 582.
As we conclude that the issue is not one which should
be adjudicated in a proceeding for mandamus it is unnecessary to consider the merits and the judgment will
be affirmed without prejudice to any other appropriate
proceeding for the refund of the tax.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS is of

the opinion that the judg-

ment should be reversed.
MANTLE LAMP CO. v. ALUMINUM PRODUCTS CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 765. Argued May 3, 1937.-Decided May 24, 1937.
Patent No. 1,435,199, to Blair, Claim 1, for "A heat-insulated vessel of the non-vacuum type having an outer jacket of nonfrangible material, an inner container of frangible material, said
inner container being bonded to and pendently supported from
said jacket, and heat-insulating and shock-absorbing means surrounding said container for limiting oscillations of said container
while permitting expansion thereof by changes of temperature,"
is void for want of invention. P. 546.
86 F. (2d) 509, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 300 U. S. 651, to review the affirmance of a
decree dismissing a bill in'a suit for infringement of a
patent.

MANTLE LAMP CO. v. ALUMINUM CO.
544

545

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. George I. Haight, with whom Messrs. W. H. F.
Millar and M. K. Hobbs were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. William N. Cromwell for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a suit for infringement of Claims 1, 3 to 14, inclusive, 17, 18, and 21 to 24, inclusive, of the Blair Patent
No. 1,435,199 for a heat-insulated receptacle. The District Court held all of the claims invalid by reason of lack
of invention, prior invention, anticipation, as being for an
aggregation and as involving only mechanical skill. That
court further limited the claims to the, particular structure
disclosed in the application, and, so limited, held them not
infringed. It also found that unreasonable delay in filing
disclaimers voided all the claims. The Circuit Court of
Appeals affirmed a decree dismissing the bill.1 We granted
certiorari because of a conflict of decision.
In 1927 the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh
Circuit held all of the claims here in suit, except Claim 3,
bad for want of invention.2 In 1931 the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit held Claim 1 valid and infringed "without prejudice to any rights of the plaintiff
under any other claim." ' Inasmuch as the conflict is limited to Claim 1 we restrict our consideration to that claim.
The claim is:
"A heat-insulated vessel of the non-vacuum type having
an outer jacket of non-frangible material, an inner container of frangible material, said inner container being
bonded to and pendently supported from said jacket, and
heat-insulating and shock-absorbing means surrounding
said container for limiting oscillations of said container
186 F. (2d) 509.
2 Macomb Mfg. Co. v. Mantle Lamp Co., 22 F. (2d) 93; Monarch
Co. v. Mantle Lamp Co., 22 F. (2d) 95.
3Mantle Lamp Co. v. George H. Bowman Co., 53 F. (2d) 441.
146212°-37-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

while permitting expansion thereof by changes of temperature."
Over thirty years ago containers for keeping their contents hot or cold by the use of a vacuum came into general
use. It was found impractical to make such containers of
a capacity in excess of one quart or perhaps two quarts.
For some years thereafter there were no satisfactory insulated containers of larger size. In 1919 Blair filed application for a patent for a heat insulated receptacle of the
non-vacuum type, his object being economically to produce relatively large receptacles which would be sanitary
and easy to clean, to improve their insulation, to minimize
the transmission of shocks to the inner container which
was of glass or other fragile substance. As disclosed by
the claim in question he proposed to make a jug or paillike container the outer jacket of which would be of iron
or similar rigid material. Within this there was an inner
container of glass (or, as in the commercial article, of
earthenware) bonded to and pendently supported from the
outer jacket. Between the inner and outer members cornminuted material, such as ground cork, was to be inserted
for insulating the inner container, limiting its oscillations
and permitting its expansion due to changes of temperature.
We pass the questions of infringement and failure
promptly to disclaim after the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Seventh Circuit had held the claims invalid in
1927, since we hold that the patent does not disclose
invention.
We are of opinion that all the elements of the patent
were old and aggregation of them did not involve theexercise of inventive genius but of mechanical adaptation
Containers comprising an inner receptacle and an outer
casing, the interspace filled with comminuted material,
were old. The packing of the space had been practiced
both to protect the inner container from shock and to insulate it. The pendulant support of the inner member

MANTLE LAMP CO. v. ALUMINUM CO.
544

547

Opinion of the Court.

by the casing was old. Such pendulant support had been
supplied by screwing the threaded neck of the glass container into the threaded neck of the casing, by superimposing an annular flange on the one over a corresponding

flange on the other, and by other mechanical means. The
petitioner says, however, that novelty and invention are
found in the use of a bond to unite the inner and outer
members. As to this its brief states: "The patentee says
in his patent that he prefers to use the adherent bond
described but the disclosure of the patent is not so limited and is broad enough to include any bond either a
mechanical or an adherent bond." It is also said that the
bond shown in the drawings and described in the specifications acts as a seal at the neck of the container to prevent
liquids from seeping into the insulating material and impairing its usefulness. Accepting the view that to bond
two articles can signify no more than to unite them firmly
by any means, we find in the prior art the bonding of
container and casing by mechanical means and by the use
of cement and plaster of paris. Invention cannot inhere
in Blair's employment of either mode of union. The claim
says nothing about the sealing effect of the bond, bwt if
interpretation of the claim by reference to the specification might supply this element, the prior art shows instances of such sealing by the use of an impervious binding material such as cement, and earlier patents claim this
sealing as an element of the invention described.
In short, anyone familiar with the prior art needed only
by exercise of mechanical skill to combine known methods and structures and so attain the combination exhibited
in the patent. The judgment is
Affirmed.

