OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

301 U. S.

court was entitled to pass. The record shows that petitioners' claim was pressed, heard and determined as one
belonging in that category.
The case of Duparquet Co. v. Evans, 297 U. S. 216,
is not in point. There is no question here as to-the jurisdiction of the District Court to entertain the proceeding
for reorganization. The order was made in the exercise of
the general jurisdiction conferred by § 77 B (a) which
embraced the authority to pass upon fees and expenses incident to administration, including claims such as the
present one for legal services rendered in the prior suit
in the state court. Compare Gross v. Irving Trust Co.,
289 U. S. 342, 345.
Appeal could be taken only under § 24b, in the discretion of the appellate court. See Wingert v. Smead, 70 F.
(2d) 351; In re New York Investors, Inc., 79 F. (2d)
179; Meyer v. Kenmore Hotel Co., 297 U. S. 160, 166.
The order of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
ALASKA PACKERS ASSN. v. PILLSBURY, DEPUTY
COMMISSIONER, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 558.

Argued March 9, 1937.-Decided April 26, 1937.

1. The rule of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
which would permit an appeal to be taken in admiralty by simply filing in. the office of the clerk of the. District Court, and
serving on the proctor for the adverse party, a notice of appeal,
is in conflict with § 8 (c) of the Act of February 13, 1925; 28
U. S. C. 230, which, in admiralty-4s in equity cases, requires an
application and judicial allowance. P. 175.
2. A rule of court in conflict with a statute is void. P. 177.
78 F. (2d) 587, reversed.

ALASKA PACKERS v. PILLSBURY.
174

175

Opinion of the Court.

CERTIORARI,

299 U. S. 538, to review an order of the

Circuit Court of Appeals overruling a motion to dismiss
an appeal in admiralty. That court's decision on the
merits was not included for consideration in the order
granting certiorari.
Mr. Eugene M. Prince, with whom Messrs. Marshall
P. Madison and Francis Gill were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. J. Frank Staley, with whom Solicitor General Reed
and Messrs. William W. Scott and Charles A. Horsky
were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
The question here presented is whether an appeal to
a circuit court of appeals from a decree in admiralty in

a district court may be taken by simply filing in the office of the clerk of the district court, and serving on the
proctor of the adverse party, a notice of appeal. In this
case the circuit court of appeals, in deference to a rule
adopted by it in 1900 and readopted in 1928, sustained
an appeal so taken and overruled the appellee's contention that the rule is in conflict with § 8 (c) of the Act of
February 13, 1925, c. 229, 43 Stat. 936, 940; 28 U. S. C.
§ 230; which provides:
"No writ of error or appeal intended to bring any
judgment or decree before a circuit court of appeals for
review shall be allowed -unless application therefor be
duly made within three months after the entry of such
judgment or de-ree."
We are of opinion that the statute is both applicable
and controlling.
Prior to the creation of the circuit courts of appeals
the recognized mode Of taking an appeal from a decree

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

in admiralty, as well as from a decree in equity, was by
making application to the court rendering the decree, or
to a judge or justice, and obtaining an allowance of an
appeal. The authorized procedure in this regard is shown
in Barrel v. TransportationCo., 3 Wall. 44, where an appeal in admiralty was sought to be taken by simply filing
a petition in the office of the clerk of the court. This
Court dismissed the appeal, saying:
"The proceeding in the case is not warranted by any
act of Congress, and we have no authority to act on such
a petition. The filing of it in the clerk's office, even if
it could be regarded as addressed to the Circuit Court,
would be of no avail, unless accompanied by an allowance
of an appeal by that court; and in the case before us
there was no allowance."
The act creating the circuit courts of appeals' and investing them with stated appellate jurisdiction, including
appeals in admiralty, made no change in the prior procedure. On the contrary, § 11 of that act provided:
"And all provisions of law now in force regulating the
methods and system of review, through appeals or writs
of error, shall regulate the methods and system of appeals and writs of error provided for in this act in respect
of the circuit courts of appeals, including all provisions
for bonds or other securities to be required and taken on
such appeals and writs of error, and any judge of the circuit courts of appeals, in respect of cases brought or to be
brought to that court, shall have the same powers and
duties as to the allowance of appeals or writs of error, and
the conditions of such allowance, as now by law belong
to the justices or judges in respect of the existing courts
of the United States respectively." 2
'Act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826.
'See Title 28, U. S. C., § 228.

ALASKA PACKERS v. PILLSBURY.
174

Opinion of the Court.

The reasons for requiring that an appeal be duly applied for and allowed are that there may be some assurance that the suit is one in which there may be a review
in the circuit court of appeals; that the decree is of such
finality or character that it may be reexamined on appeal; and that appropriate security for costs may be
taken where the appellant is not by law exempted from
giving such security.' In this way improvident and unauthorized appeals are prevented. While an appeal in a
proper case is matter of right the question whether the case
is a proper one under the law regulating appeals is not left
to the appellant, but is to be examined and primarily
determined by the court or judge to whom the application is to be made. The reasons for thus conditioning
the right of appeal have the same application to decrees
in admiralty that they have to decrees in equity and
judgments at law; and the act of 1925 includes one as
much as another, for it says: "No . . . appeal intended to bring any judgment or decree before a circuit
court of appeals for review shall be allowed unless application therefor be duly made." In all of the circuits
other than the one in which the decision now under review was made full effect is given to this requirement.
In the one circuit a rule exists whereby appeals in admiralty are excepted. But that rule contravenes the
statute and has no force, for the power of a court to make
rules necessarily is confined to such as are consistent with
controlling laws.
It follows that the circuit court of appeals was without
jurisdiction to entertain the attempted appeal.
Decree reversed.
'See Bartemeyer v. Iowa, 14 Wall. 26, 27; Havnor v. New York,
170 U. S. 408, 410; Ireland v. Woods, 246 U. S. 323, 328.

146212'-37-12

