OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

301 U. S.

Fifth. The tax is not invalid as a result of its
exemptions.
Here again the opinion in Steward Machine Co. v.
Davis, supra, says all that need be said.
Sixth. The decree of the Court of Appeals should be
reversed and that of the District Court affirmed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

are of opinion that the provisions of the act 'here challenged are repugnant to the Tenth Amendment, and that
the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals should be
affirmed.
GREAT LAKES TRANSIT CORP. v. INTERSTATE
STEAMSHIP CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 716.

Argued April 28, 29, 1937.-Decided June 1, 1937.

1. Where a common carrier by water, by its bills of lading and
tariffs, waives the exemptions of the Harter Act and accepts liability as insurer of cargo against marine perils, it is entitled to
insure itself against that liability. P. 651.
2. Where a carrier, by agreement with shippers, assumes liability as
insurer of cargo against marine perils, the liability is not diminished by a further stipulation that the carrier will obtain marine
insurance from others. P. 652.
3. Policies of insurance issued to a steamship company, naming it
as the assured, contemplated that the assured, as common carrier,
would take upon itself full liability to cargo.owners for damage
and loss due to perils of the sea, and expressly agreed to indemnify
the assured against that liability. Held:
(1) That ambiguities, if any, raised by other clauses, must be
resolved so as still to give effect to this dominant purpose to
insure the carrier. P. 652.

GREAT LAKES CORP. v. S. S. CO.
646

Counsel for Parties.

(2) The facts that the policies insured the carrier "for account
of whom it may concern," and that loss was payable to the carrier
"or order," and that the cost of the insurance was included in the
carrier's rates to cargo owners, did not justify treating the policies
as taken out by the carrier not for its own protection but for
insurance of cargo owners. P. 653.
4. A carrier's rate to cargo may properly cover all reasonable
expenses incident to the transportation, including the cost of
insuring the carrier against liability which it has assumed to
cargo for damages and losses caused by marine perils. P. 653.
5. A policy insuring a carrier against loss and damage to cargo
from marine perils may inure to the benefit of shippers. P. 653.
6. Where a carrier, having assumed liability to cargo for loss or
damage from marine perils and having insured itself against that
liability, pays its shippers for losses suffered in a collision in
which both vessels were at fault and collects the amount from its
underwriters, the underwriters may have an equity of subrogation against the other vessel for a moiety of what they paid; but
they cannot use that right to recover over against the carrier
they insured. P. 653.
86 F. (2d) 740, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 300 U. S. 650, to review the affirmance of
a decree in admiralty adjudging two vessels at fault and
adjudging that intervening underwriters recover, from
each of the vessels and their respective owners, a moiety
of payments made under policies insuring one of the
carriers against liability to cargo.
Mr. John B. Richards, with whom Mr. Laurence E.
Coffey was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Ray M. Stanley, with whom Mr. Ellis H. Gidley
was on the brief, for Atlantic Mutual Insurance Co. et
al., respondents.
Messrs. Frederick L. Leckie and Thomas H. Garry
filed a brief on behalf of the Interstate Steamship Co.,
respondent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

301 U. S.

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
A collision occurred in the St. Clair river between the
vessel "George D. Dixon" owned by the petitioner, Great
Lakes Transit Corporation, and the vessel "Willis L.
King" owned by the Iterstate Steamship Company.
Each owner brought a libel in admiralty against the other.
The suits were consolidated. The Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company and other underwriters having paid to
the petitioner, under insurance policies procured by it,
the amount of cargo damage and loss which petitioner had
paid to owners of the cargo carried by the "Dixon," intervened and claimed the right through subrogation to recover the amount thus paid from the Interstate Steamship Company and its vessel, the "King." 1
The District Court entered a decree adjudging both vessels at fault and that the intervening underwriters should
recover from each of the vessels and their respective owners a moiety of the amounts paid and payable under the
policies. The decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals. 86 F. (2d) 740. In view of the importance
of the issue, certiorari was granted, limited to the question of the correctness of the decree in directing recovery
from the petitioner.
Petitioner's contention is that the insurance policies
were contracts between the underwriters and the petitioner under which the latter was entitled to be indemnified for the liability it had assumed under its bill of lading
and its tariff provisions; that the underwriters were not
entitled to recover back from petitioner What they had
paid it in discharge of their obligation. The underwriters
insist that their policies insured cargo and that their pay1 The underwriters' claim also covered such additional amounts as
they would be called upon to pay as further damages and losses to
cargo were ascertained and were paid by petitioner.

GREAT LAKES CORP. v. S. S. CO.
646

Opinion of the Court.

ments were made for cargo's benefit; that, the cargo damage and loss having been paid, they were entitled by subrogation to a decree for the full damage against the
"King"; that as both vessels were at fault the "King"
was entitled to contribution from the "Dixon," and that
the decree in avoidance of circuity had fixed the ultimate
liabilities by requiring each vessel to pay a moiety.
The cargo on the "Dixon" was carried under uniform
bills of lading, approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission, which after referring in ยง 9 (a) to the exemptions
contained in the Harter Act (46 U. S. C. 190 et seq.), provided in ยง 9 (e) as follows:
"If the property is being carried under a tariff which
provides that any carrier or carriers party thereto shall
be liable for loss from perils of the sea, then as to such
carrier or carriers the provisions of this section shall be
modified in accordance with the tariff provisions, which
shall be regarded as incorporated into the conditions of
this bill of lading."
The court below concluded, and we think rightly, that
by the applicable tariffs the petitioner waived the saving
clauses of the Harter Act and assumed full liability to the
cargo owners for loss or damage caused by marine perils.'
2

It

is sufficient, for the present purpose, to quote the following

from one of these tariffs filed by the petitioner:
"Rule No. 15.-Marine Insurance.-Rates Named Herein Include
Marine Insurance.-While shipments subject to rates named herein
as including Marine Insurance are water-borne at and between lake
ports, on the vessels of the Great Lakes Transit Corporation, said
corporation assumes liability for loss or damage to said shipments
caused by marine perils, to wit: Of the seas and lakes, fire, collision,
stranding, jettisons, pirates, assailing thieves, barratry of the master
or mariners and all other perils or misfortunes that have or shall
come to the hurt or damage of said property, or any part thereof,
including general average charges and expenses for which the owner
may, under the Maritime Law, be chargeable, but excluding the risks
of riots, war or insurrections; any loss from said marine perils for

650

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

While these tariffs were not uniform they also either
stated or fairly imported that the specified rates should
include marine insurance.
The policies of insurance had the following rider, by
which the underwriters agreed to insure the Great Lakes
Transit Corporation, for account of whom it may concern,
loss, if any, to be payable to the Great Lakes Transit Corporation or order,"On cargo of any kind owned by the Assured and on the
assured's liability to others in respect to cargo of any kind
covering same from time said Great Lakes Transit Corporation becomes responsible therefor and until its responsibility ceases, wheresoever the same may be, including
risks while on docks, in and/or on cars on docks, piers,
wharves, lighters and/or craft, transfers, and all land conveyances, and also to cover upon any advances made by
and payment of back charges made by or due from said
Assured, and upon any charges of said Assured upon any
and all cargo or any portion thereof; from the time the
Assured becomes responsible for such cargo including risks
of trans-shipment, and under and/or on deck on board of
the Assured's steamers:
"Also to cover through. to destination goods delivered
by the Assured to other water transportation companies
for shipment to destination."
The policies further provided that, the Assured taking
"all the risks, perils and liabilities which by law a common
carriex by land or water assumes, and also the insurance of
said cargo against perils of the seas and lakes" etc., the
Assurers agreed "to indemnify and hold harmless" the
Assured against any loss or damage to cargo from all such
risks, perils, etc., "to the extent which the Assured may be
which said Corporation is liable hereunder, to be paid sixty days
after proof of loss and proof of interest in said property have been

furnished."

GREAT LAKES CORP. v. S. S. CO.
646

651

Opinion of the Court.

held by the owners thereof, under any liability the Assured shall have assumed as common carriers, insurers or
otherwise." 8
We are unable to accept the view that the provisions
we have quoted cannot avail petitioner "because it did
not take upon itself the insurance of cargo or assume
any liability with reference thereto as an insurer"; that
"its obligation as to insurance went no further than to
require it to procure policies of insurance from others."
Petitioner did more than agree to obtain marine insur8 The

text of the provision referred to is as follows:
"It is agreed between the parties hereto that said steamers are
to be employed in carrying cargo, or cargo and passengers, in and
on said steamers as aforesaid, the Assured taking upon themselves
as to said cargo, or parts thereof, all the risks, perils and liabilities
which by law a common carrier by land or water assumes, and also
the insurance of said cargo against perils of the seas and lakes, fire,
jettisons, barratry, negligence of master or mariners, loss or damage
arising through explosions howsoever or wheresoever occurring,
bursting of boilers, breakage of shafts or through any latent defect
in the machinery or hjull, and all other acts, perils or misfortunes
that have or shall come to the hurt, detriment, damage to or loss of
the said cargo or any part thereof, and the said Assurers agree and
undertake to indemnify and hold harmless the said Assured against
hurt, detriment, damage to or loss of such cargo from any and all
such risks, perils, acts or misfortunes, to the extent which the Assured
may be held by the owners thereof, under any liability the Assured
shall have assumed as common carriers, insurers, or otherwise, and
for any and all claims which said cargo may be called upon to contribute in General Average, and/or for salvage, landing, warehousing
and/or special charges, and to cover in like manner duties and any
cargo owned by the Assured, and also all advances made by and
payment of back charges made by or due from said Assured and/or
charges of said Assured upon any and all cargo or any portion
thereof.
"In case of loss, such loss to be paid thirty days after proof of
loss and proof of interest are furnished to this company. There
shall, however, be deducted from the aggregate of all claims on each
east bound or west bound passage, the sum of $1,000."

652

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court

301 U. S.

ance. Petitioner by its tariffs waived the provisions of
the Harter Act and became itself an insurer of the cargo
against marine perils. The agreement to obtain marine
insurance did not detract from that undertaking. Had
the underwriters been unable to respond to their contracts, petitioner would still have been liable to the cargo
owners upon its own engagement. Having assumed that
liability, petitioner was undoubtedly entitled to take out
policies for its own protection. See Wyman, Partridge
& Co. v. Boston & Maine R. Co., 13 I. C. C. 258, 262;
15 I. C. C. 577, 581; 19 I. C. C. 551, 553. It is a familiar
rule that a common carrier "whether liable by law or
custom to the same extent as an insurer, or only for his
own negligence, may, in order to protect himself against
his own responsibility, as well as to secure his lien, cause
the goods in his custody to be insured to their full value."
Phoenix Insurance Co. v. Erie Transportation Co., 117
U. S. 312, 323, 324, and cases there tited. "I see nothing
remarkable," said Lord Chief Justice Russell in Hill v.
Scott, L. R. [1895] 2 Q. B. D. 371, 375, "in the shipowner insuring himself. In a case where there was a
bill of lading with widely sweeping exceptions, no doubt
it would be unnecessary; but where, as here, there is no
bill of lading, the shipowner frequently effects an insurance in order to prote9 t himself against liability." See,
also, the same case, on appeal, Id., pp. 713, 714.
The policies issued to petitioner explicitly afforded the
protection which the petitioner was entitled to seek by
virtue of the risks it had assumed. The petitioner was
the "Assured" named in the policies. Their terms contemplated that the assured as a common carrier would
take upon itself full liability to the cargo owners for all
damage and loss due to perils of the sea, and the underwriters expressly agreed to indemnify the assured against
that liability. There is no admissible construction of the
policies which can eliminate or frustrate that undertak-

GREAT LAKES CORP. v. S. S. CO.
646

Opinion of the Court.

ing. In its presence, if ambiguities are raised by other
clauses, they must be resolved so as still to give effect to
the dominant purpose which the policies clearly reveal.
The fact that the policies insured the petitioner, Great
Lakes Transit Corporation "for account of whom it may
concern" and that the loss was payable to the Great Lakes
Transit Corporation "or order" did not alter the fact that
the Great Lakes Transit Corporation was itself directly
concerned or detract from the stipulation running to that
corporation as a carrier and affording it the specified indemnity. Nor does the fact that the cost of the insurance was included in the carrier's rate affect the question.
The rate would properly cover all the reasonable expenses incident to the transportation, and when the carrier assumed liability to the cargo owners for damages
and losses caused by marine perils, there was nothing unreasonable in the carrier's protecting itself against that
risk by procuring insurance and covering the cost in its
rate. Compare Wyman, Partridge & Co. v. Boston &
Maine R. Co., supra. And if it be assumed, as we do
assume, that the insurance would inure to the benefit of
the cargo owners, that would be a protection to those
owners additional to that afforded by the carrier's own
engagement which still remained effective and covered
by the stipulation in the policies for the benefit of the
carrier. By reason of that coverage the underwriters
were bound to pay, and did pay, to the petitioner, the
amounts which the latter became liable to pay and had
paid to the cargo owners under the contracts of carriage.
These payments having been made, the underwriters
now seek to recover back from the petitioner a moiety of
what they have paid to it. It is said that this results
from the admiralty rule for a division of damages in case
of fault on the part of both vessels involved in the collision, and that the decree for a recovery by the underwriters from the petitioner is for the purpose of avoiding

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

circuity of action. The effect none the less is to enable
the underwriters to get back one-half of the amounts they
had expressly agreed to pay to petitioner for its
indemnity.
The underwriters seek to sustain the decree by invoking
the doctrine of subrogation, but the equity of subrogation
invests the underwriters with the rights of the assured
against third persons (Phoenix Insurance Co. v. Erie
Transportation Co., supra; Wager v. Providence Insurance Co., 150 U. S. 99, 108; Standard Marine Insurance
Co. v. Scottish Assurance Co., 283 U. S. 284, 286) not
with a right to override its own obligation to the assured.
Thus, when a bill of lading provides that in case of loss
the carrier, if liable therefor, shall have the full benefit
of any insurance effected upon the goods, the provision
limits the right of subrogation of the insurer, upon payment to the shipper, to recover over against the carrier.
Phoenix Insurance Co. v. Erie TransportationCo., supra;
Wager v. Providence Insurance Co., supra. Such a clause
giving the carrier the benefit of insurance effected by the
shipper is valid "because the carrier might himself have
insured against the loss, even though occasioned by his
own negligence, and if a shipper under a bill. of lading
containing this provision effects insurance and is paid the
full amount of his loss, neither he nor the insurer can
recover against the carrier." Luckenbach, v. McCahan
Sugar Co., 248 U. S. 139, 146. Following the same reasoning, we have said that "If a valid claim by the underwriter to be subrogated to t'ie rights of the owner will not
arise where the carrier has contracted with the owner that
he, the carrier, shall have the benefit of any insurance, it
would seem to be clear that where the carrier is actually
and in terms the party insured, the underwriter can have
no right to recover over against the carrier, even if the
amount of the policy has been paid by the insurance company to the owner on the order of the carrier." Wager v.

THOMAS v. PERKINS.
646

Syllabus.

Providence Insurance Co., supra, pp. 108, 109. See, also,
The John Russell, 68 F. (2d) 901, 902.
Construing the policies in this instance as indemnifying
the carrier against the liability which it had assumed by
its bills of lading and tariffs to the cargo owners, the payments by the underwriters operated as a discharge of
their obligation to the carrier, and while, as the cargo
owners had the benefit of the insurance, the underwriters
could be subrogated to the right of the cargo owners
against the "King," they could not use that right to recover over against the carrier in defiance of their own stipulation. They could recover against the "King" the
moiety for which the "King" was liable but could not recover against the petitioner. The procedure in admiralty
did not affect the substantive rights established by the
policies.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and the cause is remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Re)ersed.
THOMAS, COLLECTOR, v. PERKINS ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 824.

Argued May 4, 5, 1937.-Decided June 1, 1937.

1. The federal income tax Act is to be given a uniform construction
of nation-wide application except in so far as Congress has made
it dependent on state law. P. 659.
2. An instrument assigning oil leases for a specified sum "to be paid
out of the oil produced and saved from the lands, and to be onefourth of all the oil produced and saved" until that sum was paid,
provided that the "oil payment" should be made to the two
assignors, each to receive one-half thereof "out of the oil produced
and saved" from the leased premises, "which payments shall be
made by the pipe-line company or other purchaser of said oil"
and be "one-fourth of all the oil produced and saved" from the

