OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Counsel for Parties.

NATIONAL -FERTILIZER ASSN., INC.
BRADLEY ET AL.

301 U. S.
ET AL.

V.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTBICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 731.

Argued April 5, 1937.-Decided April 26, 1937.

1. A federal court will not enjoin the enforcement of a state law
which has not been construed by the enforcing officers nor by the
supreme court of the State, and which is susceptible of a construction that would bring it within the police power of the State.
P. 180.
2. The right of a manufacturer to maintain secrecy as to his compounds and processes is subject to the right of the State, in the
exercise of its police power and in promotion of fair dealing, to
require that the nature of the product offered for sale be fairly
set forth. P. 182.
3. The requirement may be extended to the sale of products manufactured prior to the passage of the legislation. P. 182.
18 F. Supp. 263, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a decree of. the District Court, of three

judges, denying an injunction and dismissing the bill in
a suit by an association representing manufacturers of
commercial fertilizer to enjoin the enforcement of a state
law requiring that on the containers in which mixed fertilizer is sold there shall be disclosed the poundages and
analyses of materials used in the. manufacture. The defendants were the members of a state board and the state
Attorney General.
Messrs. W. C. McLain and Daniel S. Murph for appellants.

Messrs. J. Ivey Humphrey, Assistant Attorney Gen-

eral of South Carolina, and William C. Wolfe, with whom
Messrs. John M. Daniel, Attorney General, and Harold
Major were on the brief, for appellees.

NAT. FERTILIZER ASSN. v. BRADLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

178
MR.

179

JusTIcE, McREYNoLDs

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Prior to 1936 the laws of South Carolina required that
manufacturers, before offering mixed commercial fertilizer
for sale, should affix to each container a tag disclosing
certain facts concerning the contents. Code of Laws,
1932, §§ 6363-6385. An Act approved April 6, 1936,
added to § 6361 the following so-called "Open Formula"
amendment, to become effective August 1, 1936.
"(b) The amount and analysis of 'each material, or
source, of each plant food element used in manufacture,
of a fertilizer mixture containing two or more plant food
elements be stated on a tag attached to each sack or
container, such amount of material to be stated in pounds
per hundred pounds of mixture contained in the sack or
other container. This statement of pounds of materials
used in the manufacture of a fertilizer mixture shall be
in addition to the statement of chemical analysis as required by Section No. 6366 of the Code of Laws of South
Carolina, 1932."
Section 6366 and Section 6367 as amended, are in the.
margin.'
'SEC. 6366. Contents of Labels.-Every person or corporation, before selling or offering for sale in this State any commercial fertilizer

or fertilizing material shall brand on each bag or package the brand
name of the fertilizer, the weight of the package, the name and
address of the manufacturer, and the minimum percentage only
guaranteed to be present of available phosphoric acid, of nitrogen
(ammonia equivalent), and of potash soluble in water. The items
shall be printed on the package in the following order:
Weight of each package.
Brand name or trade-mark.
Guaranteed analysis:
Available phosphoric acid ................. per cent.
Ammonia equivalent of nitrogen ............ per cent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

July 22, 1936, before the officers charged with enforcement of statutes relating to fertilizers formulated any
rule or instruction regarding the "Open Formula" amendment, and before the Supreme Court had considered or
construed it, many manufacturers filed their joint bill
in the court below, wherein they alleged the amendment
offended the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution and asked for an injunction. After answer,
testimony was presented by both sides. Three judges
heard the cause; found the facts; pointed out a possible
construction under which they held the Act would not
be arbitrary or oppressive; and dismissed the bill. The
matter is here by appeal.

As the enactment has not been construed by the
enforcing officers nor interpreted by the Supreme Court
Guaranteed analysis-Continued.
Potash soluble in water ................... per cent.
Name and address of the manufacturer.
In addition to the above there must be printed on the package, or
on a tag attached thereto, the per cent. of water soluble nitrogen
(ammonia equivalent), guaranteed, within such limits as the said
board of trustees, or a committee thereof, may prescribe. And, in
addition, further, it must be stated whether the potash is derived
from muriate or sulphate. And, in addition, further, the per cent. of
borax or other substance, or substances, injurious to plants must be
stated, if in excess of limits prescribed by the board of trustees, or a
committee thereof: Provided, The said board of trustees, or a committee thereof, shall have power to direct in what manner the branding and labeling shall be done.
SEc. 6367. Classification of Materials--Labeling--Substitution-Special Contracts--Damagesand Penalty.-(a) The materials used in
the maLufacture and mixing of all fertilizers supplying nitrogen or
ammonia,' and offered for sale in this State, shall be divided into two
classes, namely, water-soluble and available water-insoluble; and the
percentage of nitrogen or ammonia coming from either of these two
classes shall be guaranteed, but allowing a variability of one-fourth of
one per cent. for goods containing two per cent. of ammonia or
under, and a variability of one-third of one per cent for goods containing two and three per cent. ammonia, and a variability of one-

NAT. FERTILIZER ASSN. v. BRADLEY.
178

181

Opinion of the Court.

of the State, it is impossible to say what ultimately will
be demanded of the complainants. The Court below was
of the opinion that, reasonably construed, the Act would
be satisfied if the tag upon a given container revealed
the general average of the designated items which went
into the storage or curing pile of fertilizer at the factory
from which such container was filled. "These piles range
from 100 tons up to 5,000 tons." This interpretation is,
at least, permissible. So construed, we cannot say that
the Act is clearly arbitrary, unreasonable and beyond the
police power of the State. Apparently it can be complied
with without prohibitive expense.2
half of one per cent. for goods containing over three per cent. ammonia, and the several materials in each of these two classes shall be
named on the bag or on a tag attached thereto, and it shall be permissible for the manufacturer to substitute one or more materials in
either class of approximately equal agricultural value for other materials of the same class: Provided: That where there is a contract of
agreement between a manufacturer and a purchaser of fertilizer that
the fertilizer will be manufactured by thp use of certain definite
sources and amounts of ammonia and potash, the fertilizer must be
manufactured from these materials without substitution of other materials and failure on the part of the manufacturer to comply with
this requirement shall render the manufacturer liable to the purchaser
for damages as it is now prescribed by law, and in addition thereto
the manufacturer shall pay to the purchaser a penalty equal to onefourth of the purchase price of such fertilizer.
(b) The amount and analysis of each material, or source, of each
plant food element used in manufacture, of a fertilizer mixture containing two or more plant food elements be stated on a tag attached
to each sack or container, such amount of material to be stated in
pounds per hundred pounds of mixture contained in the sack or other
container. This statement of pounds of materials used in the manufacture of a fertilizer mixture shall be in addition to the statement
of chemical analysis as required by Section No. 6366 of the Code of
Laws of South Carolina, 1932.
'Findings of Fact as to Reasonableness of Regulations-No. VI.
"With the foregoing illustration of the application of the requirements of the new law to the actual facts of agriculture, we have no
hesitation in finding as a fact that the requirements of the 1936

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of -he Court.

.301 U. S.

In response to the assertion that compliance with the
"Open Formula" amendment would require complainants to reveal secret formulas and thus unlawfully deprive them of property, it is enough to refer to Corn
Products Refining Co. v. Eddy, 249 U. S. 427, 431-432.
"The right of a manufacturer to maintain secrecy as to
his compounds and processes must be held subject to
the right of the State, in the exercise of its police power
and in promotion of fair dealing, to require that the nature of the product be fairly set forth." And the same
principle is broad enough to meet the further claim of
right to sell products manufactured prior to the passage
of the amending Act of 1936.
We find no material error. The challenged decree must
be
Affirmed.
Amendment do most positively tend to meet an actually existing need
and to serve the purpose which the Legislature clearly had in mind;
namely, to so .regulate the fertilizer business as to give the farmer that
information which would tend to aid in the carrying on of the major
industry of the State*of South Carolina."
Findings of Fact as to Information Required by the Act, &.No. 11.
"The word 'mixture' has under the testimony come to have a rather
definite meaning in the fertilizer business. It relates not so much to
the finished product in the sack as it does to the actual pile of fertilizer as mixed in the manufacturing plant and left to cure before
being finally ground up and put into sacks. The testimony deals fully
with the actual processes followed in the mixing of the fertilizer,' and
the greater weight of the testimony suggests that the average unit of
mixture as actually made by the larger fertilizer companies when making a typical fertilizer for sale in large quantities is about five thousand tons. Under the testimony we find that in some cases a strict
compliance with the statute will probably Lall for a large warehouse
and the inauguration of a more elaborate system of bookkeeping as to
the exact materials put into each mixture but these increased expenses
will not be so great as to render the cost of the manufacture of the
finished product prohibitive and out of line with the probable increase
of prices which the actual trade would bear."

