FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. BEACH.

435

Opinion of the Court.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK & TRUST CO., TRUSTEE,
v. BEACH.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 621.

Argued April 27, 28, 1937.-Decided May 17, 1937.

1. Section 75 of the Bankruptcy Act defined a "farmer" as any
individual who is personally bona fide "engaged primarily in
farming operations," or "the principal part of whose income is
derived from farming operations." Held that these two branches
of the definition are not equivalents but are used in contrast, and
neither is a term of art, but in their application the question
of farmer vel non must be determined by considering and appraising all the facts. P. 438.
2. Respondent owned a farm, of which he occupied a part, living
there and devoting most of his time to cultivation and other farm
activities, the products of which were the food for himself and
his dependants; the remainder and greater portion of the farm
he let out to tenants, who put it to grazing and cultivation, yielding him rentals which constituted the greater part of his income.
Held a "farmer" within the meaning of § 75 of the Bankruptcy
Act. P. 439.
86 F. (2d) 88, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 300 U. S. 650, to review the reversal of a
petition by the present respondent for relief under § 75

of the Bankruptcy Act, which was opposed by the present
petitioner, a bank holding a mortgage on his farm.
Mr. Arthur B. Weiss for petitioner.
Mr. Sydney P. Sinons for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO delivered

the opinion of the

Court.
The question is whether respondent, who has filed a
petition under § 75 of the Bankruptcy Act (11 U. S. C.

436

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

§ 203) for the composition or extension of his debts, is a
farmer as there defined.
The facts are stipulated as follows Beach was the
owner of a farm with five houses and a barn on it where
he had lived from his birth, occupying one of the houses
with his wife and children as his homestead. The farm
had been in the ownership of his family for two centuries
and over. For a time he had been engaged in mercantile
pursuits, but in 1930 owing to heavy financial losses he
began working on the farm again, and has given most
of his time to it ever since. The land had an apple orchard of two hundred trees which gave him 1500 bushels
of choice apples in 1931. He got little out of the orchard
from 1933 to 1935, the trees during those years being
affected by a blight. He sold pears from a few pear trees,
and cultivated a large garden of about one acre, planting and raising all kinds of vegetables, fruits and flowers,
more than enough to provide for his family.. He raised
hay and sold it, repaired the houses, cleaned out one of
the wells, laid several miles of stone walls and two miles
of barbed wire fence, carted stone from time to time to
enable him to rebuild his fences, and raised and sold potatoes. He was' occupied principally in raising poultry and
eggs, having two hundred *chickens in 1933, and abdut
fifty from 1935 to the time of the trial. He kept three
sheep for food; one horse for carting and hauling; and a
miscellaneous assortment of farm tools, none purchased
since 1921. His total income per annum from 1930 to
1935 was $4,000, of which $2200 was derived from renting three-quarters of the farm to various persons for
grazing and cultivation. One of these tenants conducted
a dairy, and bred, grazed and milked a herd of cows.
The earnings from the sale of poultry and eggs were $200,
from the sale of hay $75, and $25 from the sale of vegetables and flowers. Rentals from other real estate, not
claimed to be farm property, made up the remainder of

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. BEACH.
435

Opinion of the Court.

his income, $1500. The farm in its entirety was subject
to a mortgage of $100,000, held by a bank, and now under
foreclosure.
When § 75 of the Bankruptcy Act was adopted in
March, 1933, subsection (r) defined a farmer as follows:
"For the purpose of this section and section 74, the term
'farmer' means any individual who is personally bona
fide engaged primarily in farming operations or the principal part of whose income is derived from farming operations, and includes the personal representative of a deceased farmer; and a farmer shall be deemed a resident
of any county in which such farming operations occur."
Act of March 3, 1933, c. 204, 47 Sttit. 1467, 1470, 1473;
11 U. S. C. § 203 (r).
The definition was amplified on May 15, 1935 by the
following amendment: "For the purposes of this section,
section 4 (b), and section 74, the term 'farmer' includes
not only an individual who is primarily bona fide personally engaged in producing products of the soil, but also
any. individual who is primarily bona fide personally engaged in dairy farming, the production of poultry or
livestock, or the production of poultry products or livestock products in their unmanufactured state, or the
principal part of whose income is derived from any one or
more of the foregoing operations, and includes the personal representative of a deceased farmer; and a farmer
shall be deemed a resident of any county in which such
operations occur." Act of May 15, 1935, c. 114, § 3, 49
Stat. 246; 11 U. S. C. § 203 (r).
A petition for relief under the section as thus amended
was filed by the debtor on November 14, 1935, and was
opposed by the mortgagee, the petitioner here. The District Court held that the debtor was not a farmer within
the meaning of the statute, and so dismissed the proceeding. An appeal was allowed by the Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit. which reversed the judgment of dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

missal, one judge dissenting. 86 F. (2d) 88. The reversal went upon the ground that the principal income
of the debtor was derived from farming operations, if
rents from the farm tenants ($2200) were included in
the reckoning, as the court held that they should be. We
granted certiorari, an important question being involved
as to the meaning of an act of Congress.
The only effect of the 1935 amendments of the statute,
in so far as they have to do with the definition of a farmer,
was to make it clear that farming operations include
dairy farming and the production of poultry and livestock
products in their unmanufactured state as well as the
cultivation of the products of the soil. There had been
decisions to the contrary. In re Palma Bros., 8 F. Supp.
920; In re Stubbs, 281 Fed. 568; House Report, No. 455,
74th Congress, 1st session, p. 2; Senate Report, No. 498,
74th Congress, 1st session, p. 4. For the purpose of the
case at hand the amendments may be laid aside and the
simpler phraseology of the section as it stood at the beginning may be accepted as the test. Was respondent a
farmer because "personally bona fide engaged primarily
in farming operations" or because "the principal par. of
his income was derived from farming operations"?
We do not try to fix the meaning of either of the two
branches of this definition, considered in the abstract.
The two are not equivalents. They were used by way of
contrast. Occasions must have been in view when the
receipt of income derived from farming operations would
make a farmer out of some one who personally or primarily was engaged in different activities. A catalogue
of such occasions might err for excess or for defect if made
up in advance. Hypothetical situations are laid before
us, and the argument is pressed that the definition will
breed absurdity if applied to this one of them or that.
We refuse to be led away from the limitations of the concrete case. The words "primarily engaged," as we find

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. BEACH.
435

439

Opinion of the Court.

them in the first branch of the definition, do not constitute a term of art. The words "income derived from
farming operations" do not constitute such a term. In
every case the totality of the facts is to be considered and
appraised. We pass to that appraisal here.
1. Beach, the respondent, must be held, when the facts
are viewed in combination, to have been "personally" and
"primarily" engaged in farming operations.
He was in that business or in none. He was either a
farmer or a man of leisure. Cf. In re Glick, 26 F. (2d) 398,
400. But the stipulation makes it clear that this last he
certainly was not. He was in direct or personal possession of forty-eight acres, one-fourth of the large farm
which had been in his family for years. A substantial
part of this acreage he cultivated with his own labor, or
applied, again with his own labor, to other agricultural
uses. He did this, not for'diversion or only in spare hours,
but as an engrossing occupation, consuming, in the words
of the stipulation, "the major portion of his time." The
products of his toil were food for him and his dependents,
and the farmhouse was a home. True, the money returns
were scanty. To some extent this was so because of the
blight which fell upon his apple orchard in 1932 or later,
cutting down the revenues yielded from that source. The
scantiness of the yield may have turned him into a bankrupt, but it did not change his occupation. One does not
cease to be a farmer because drought or wind or pest may
have rendered the farm barren. The critical fact is that
the debtor worked an acreage large enough to count, that
he did not work at anything else, and that he gave to this
work, whether profitable or unprofitable, "the major portion of his time."
2. If Beach was a farmer because he cultivated a substantial farm, he did not step into another business by
leasing other acres of the tract to tenants who were to
use what they hired for grazing or cultivation and other

440

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U.S.

farming operations. We shall point out in a moment
that the acres personally cultivated and those occupied
by tenants are phases and aspects of a unitary calling.
The result will be the same, however, though the farming
and the leasing be viewed as disconnected, and not as
parts of a composite whole. In that view, the farming
is still the business; the leases are then investments, more
profitable than the business, but leaving it unchanged.
A farmer remains a farmer, just as a lawyer remains a
lawyer, though the returns on his investments, while not
enough to keep him going, are larger, none the less, than
the profits of his labor.
3. The picture, however, is distorted if Beach is looked
upon as a landlord with rentals unrelated to his primary
vocation. His rentals like his labor smacked of the soil,
and made him not less, but more a farmer than he would
have been without them. How the case would stand if
he-had been a merchant or a doctor and had leased a tract
of farming land to tenants, we do not have to say. What
has happened here is different. The farming and the
leasing must be viewed in combination if we are to gain
a true perspective, the two tied together as principal and
incident. A single tract of land belonging to the debtor
has been worked by him in part, and in part worked by
others to whom a section of the tract has been let for
cultivation. Far from stepping into another business, he
has been faithful to the old one in thus dividing up the
tillage. To get a living out of the land in onie way or
another is the thread of common purpose that binds the
labor and the leases, and enables us to find in them the
tokens of the same vocation. In brief the man is seen
to be a farmer by every test of common speech, though
his income has been garnered in rents as well as products.
We emphasize the fact afresh that the words of the statute
to which meaning is to be given are not phrases of art
with a changeless connotation. They have a color and a

TOWNSEND v. YEOMANS.
Syllabus.

435

content that may vary with the setting. Cf. Surace v.
Danna, 248 N. Y. 18, 21; 161 N. E. 315; Towne v. Eisner,
245 U. S. 418, 425; InternationalStevedoring Co. v. Haverty, 272 U. S. 50. In the setting of this enterprise, the
totality of its circumstances, the roots of the respondent's
income go down into the soil.
4. Cases in other courts relied upon by the petitioner
as excluding the respondent from the category of farmers
are consistent for the most part with the ruling now made
when the opinions are read with due relation to the' facts.
Either the debtor posing as a farmer was engaged at
the same time in some other line of business or the plots
in cultivation were too small to make a farm. Swift v.
Mobley, 28 F. (2d) 610; In re Spengler, 238 Fed. 862;
In re McMurray, 8 F. Supp. 449; In re Weis, 10 F. Supp.
227.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
TOWNSEND ET AL. V. YEOMANS, ATTORNEY
GENERAL OF GEORGIA, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

No. 781.

Argued May 3, 4, 1937.-Decided May 24, 1937.

1. The business of tobacco warehouses in Georgia is affected with
a public interest and their charges to growers for handling and
selling leaf tobacco are subject to reasonable regulation by the
State. P. 449.
2. Statutory rates or charges are presumed to be reasonable; he
who attacks them as confiscatory has the burden of proving
them so. P. 450.
3. A legislature, acting within its sphere, is presumed to know the
needs of the people of its State. P. 451.
The existence of the tobacco industry -in Georgia, the transactions of the tobacco markets, and the necessity of protecting the
growers from exorbitant warehouse charges, must be presumed

