ANNISTON MFG. CO. v. DAVIS.
Syllabus.

324

is to do more than the Soviet government could have done
after diplomatic recogition-that is, collect the claims in
conformity with those laws. Cf. Todok v. Union State
Bank, 281 U. S. 449.
As respondent debtor may not challenge the effect of
the assignment to the United States, the judgment is
rightly reversed. But as the reversal is without prejudice
to the rights of any other parties to intervene, they should
be left free to assert, by intervention or other appropriate
procedure, such claims with respect to the amount due as
are in accordance with the laws and policy of New York.
There is no occasion to say anything now which can be
taken to foreclose the assertion by such claimants of their
rights under New York law.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS and MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO COnI-

cur in this opinion.

ANNISTON MANUFACTURING CO. v. DAVIS,
COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 667.

Argued April 2, 1937.-Decided May 17, 1937.

1. The right to sue the Collector for recovery of taxes exacted under
an. unconstitutional statute may, consistently with the Fifth
Amendment, be abolished if a fair and adequate remedy directly
against the Government be substituted. P. 341.
2. With respect to the refunding of "floor stock taxes" collected under the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1933, the Revenue Act of
1936, Title VII, §. 905, preserves to the taxpayer the remedy by
suit against the United States in the District Courts or the Court
of Claims. P. 343.
3. With respect to the refunding of processing taxes collected under
the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1933, the Revenue Act of 1936,
Title VII, § 906, establishes a special and exclusive administrative
procedure before a Board of Review in the Treasury Department,
146212°-37-22

338

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

301 U. S.

and provides for a judicial review of the Board's decisions in which
may be determined every question of law which the claimant is
entitled to raise, whether general, statutory, or constitutional, including questions as to the validity of any part of Title VII itself,
and in which the review:,ng court is empowered to direct the Board
to enter any designated judgment, the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue being required'to refund any amount which may thus be
found due the claimant. P. 343.
4. With respect to the refunding of such processing taxes, the Revenue Act of 1936, supra, provides, Title VII, § 902 (2), that no refund shall be allowed unless the claimant establishes to the satisfaction of the Board of Review that he bore the burden of the
amount paid as tax and "has not been relieved thereof nor reimbursed therefor nor shifted such burden, directly or indirectly"
through the inclusion of the amount paid in the price of the product, through reduction of the price paid for the raw material, or
"in any manner whatsoever." Held:
(1) If the taxpayer has thus shifted the burden of the tax, he
is no longer in a position to claim an actual injury and the refusal
of a refund in such a case cannot be regarded as a denial of constitutional right. P 348.
(2) The fact that the Act makes no provision for refunding to
particular persons, to whom the burden of the invalid exaction
may be found to have been shifted, is no concern of the taxpayer.
P. 350.
(3) The statute should not be construed as denying a refund
where, from the nature of ihe case, proof that the tax burden was
not.shifted is inherently impossible; but the existence of such impossibility is a question of fact which the claimant may.raise before
the Board; the claimant is required to present to the Board the
facts pertaining to the subject, and thereupon it becomes the duty
of the Board, upon findings supported by evidence, to make its determination in accordance with the legal rights of the claimant,
subject to modification or reversal by the reviewing court if not in
accordance with law. P. 351.
Constitutional questions are not to be decided hypothetically.
When particular facts control the decision they must be shown.
(4) Of two possible constructions of a statute, that one should
be adopted which will save and not destroy it. An intent to
defy the Fifth Amendment or even to come so near to doing
so as to raise a serious question of constitutional law cannot be
attributed to Congress. P. 351.

ANNISTON MFG. CO. v. DAVIS.
337

339

Statement of the Case.

(5) Section 902 is not too vague; it lays down the general
principle governing the remedy afforded, leaving its applications
t3 be determined by facts as they appear in particular instances.
P. 353.
5. Section 907 (a), of Title VII, of the Revenue Act of 1936,
provides that, in the administrative proceedings above mentioned,
the fact that the average margin per unit of commodity processed
was lower during the tax period than the average margin during
the period before and after it, shall be prima facie evidence
that the burden of the processing tax was borne by the claimant
taxpayer; and that if the average margin during the tax period
was not lower, it shall be prima facie evidence that none of the
burden of such amount was borne by the claimant but that it was
shifted to others. "Tax period" and "period before and after
the tax" are defined. Section 907 (e) provides that either the
claimant or the Commissioner may'rebut the presumptions "by
proof of the actual extent to which the claimant shifted to
others the burdens of the processing tax." Held that the words
"actual extent" are used in contradistinction to the presumed extent, according to the prima facie presumption to which the proof
in rebuttal is addressed, and that complete opportunity is afforded the claimant to present any evidence which may be
pertinent to the questions to be determined by the Board of
Review and which may be appropriate to overcome any presumption which might be indulged either under § 907 (a) or otherwise.
P. 354.
6. Section 906 (b) of the Act of 1936, Title VII, supra, provides
that the hearing before the Board is to be conducted by a presiding officer who is either a member of the Board or an officer
or employee of the Treasury Department designated by the Secretary of the Treasury, and § 906 (e) that the presiding officer
is .to recommend to the Board, or a division, findings of fact
and a decision; but the Board, or a division of it, is required to
consider the .evidence and make the findings and administrative
decision; and the whole scheme of the administrative proceeding presupposes hearing and determination in accordance with the
demands of due process. P. 356.
87 F. (2d) 773, affirmed.

CEAWIORARI, 300 U. S. 649, to review the affirmance of
a judgment of the District Court, dismissing, on demurrer to the complaint, an action against the Collector

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

to recover amounts paid as cotton "processing" taxes and
as cotton "floor stock" taxes under the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1933, which was held unconstitutional
by this Court in United States v. Butler, 297 U. S. 1.
Messrs. Joseph B. Brennan and William A. Sutherland for petitioner.
Solicitor General Reed and Assistant Attorney General Morris, with whom Messrs. Sewall Key and J. Louis
Monarch, and Miss Helen R. Carloss were on the brief,
for respondent.
By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed by:
Messrs. William B. Mcllvaine and William B. Hale;
Messrs. Toy D. Savage and William R. Perkins, on behalf
of Charles W. Priddy & Co.; Messrs. Edward R. Hale
and Bennett Sanderson, on behalf of the Receivers of
Hoosac Mills Corp.; Mr. Bennett E. Siegelstein; Mr.
Richard B. Barker; Mr. George T. Buckingham; and
Messrs. Malcolm Donald and Edward E. Elder, on behalf
of Pacific Mills, Inc.,-all challenging the Act.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
Petitioner brought this suit on November 22, 1935,
against the Collector of Internal Revenue to recover the
amounts paid as cotton "processing" taxes (first cause of
action) and as cotton "floor stock" taxes (second cause
of action) under the Agricultural Adjustment Act of
1933. 48 Stat. 31, 35, 40. Petitioner alleged the unconstitutionality of the statute imposing the tax (United
States v. Butler, 297 U. S. 1) and that claim for refund
had been rejected by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue on August 16, 1935. After the enactment of Title
VII of the Revenue Act of 1936, §§ 901-917 (49 Stat.
1747), petitioner amended its complaint, asserting the

ANNISTON MFG. CO. v. DAVIS.
337

Opinion of the Court.

unconstitutionality of these provisions. Demurrer was
sustained by the District Court (15 F. Supp. 257) and
its judgment of dismissal was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals upon the ground that the court below
was without jurisdiction to entertain the action. 87 F.
(2d) 773. In view of the importance of the questions
raised, we granted certiorari.
Title VII, §§ 901-917, of the Revenue Act of 1936, provided a new administrative procedure for the recovery
of amounts collected under the Agricultural Adjustment
Act. Section 901 repealed §§ 21 (d), 21 (e), and 21 (g),
of the amendments of 1935 (49 Stat. 771-773). Section
902 prescribed the conditions on which refunds should
be made. Section 903 related to the filing of claims.
Sections 904 and 905 prescribed periods of limitation and
provided for the jurisdiction of the District Courts, concurrent with the Court of Claims, for the recovery of
amounts collected as floor stock and compensating taxes.
Section 906 prescribed the procedure on claims for refunds of processing taxes. Section 907 established certain rules of evidence or presumptions to be observed in
the administrative proceeding. Section 908 related to
allowance of interest. Section 909 denied review of the
administrative ruling by any other administrative or
accounting officer. Section 910 undertook to free the
collector from liability for moneys collected by him and
paid into the Treasury in performance of his official
duties. Section 913 defined various terms employed.
Other sections laid down administrative rules not requiring attention in the present discussion.
First. Petitioner contends that at the time it brought
this suit it had a vested right of action against the Collector to recover the amounts exacted under statutory
provisions held to be invalid; that this right of action
could not be destroyed without violating the Fifth
Amendment; that the Collector was personally liable for

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

the amounts collected and that § 910 which attempted
to destroy that liability is unconstitutional.
The Government answers that the instant case "does
not require a decision as to the power of Congress to
withdraw suit entirely, both against the Collector and
against the Government"; that Congress "has left a
'remedy against the Government which is fair and adequate in every respect." We agree with the Government's contention that if the administrative remedy is
fair and adequate, other questions with respect to the
liability of the Collector and the validity of § 910 need
not now be considered. We had occasion to deal with a
cognate question in Burrill v. Locomobile Co., 258 U. S.
34. That decision was rendered in suits brought by
foreign corporations in the federal court to recover taxes
alleged to have been paid to the defendant, the Treasurer
of -Massachusetts, under duress and in obedience to
statutes held by this Court to be unconstitutional in
InternationalPaper Co. v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 135,
and Locomobile Co. v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 146. A
statute of Massachusetts provided that any corporation
aggrieved by the exaction of the tax could apply by petition to the Supreme Judicial Court and that the remedy
so provided should be exclusive. As the statute contained a provision for repayment of any sum adjudged
to have been illegally exacted, it was contended that it
constituted a bar to a personal suit against the Treasurer
who had collected the tax. This Court agreed with the
defendant upon that point. The State had substituted
an exclusive remedy against itself for the remedy against
the Treasurer and had guaranteed payment of the
amount found to be due. 'The validity of the statute
was sustained. We said that we did "not perceive why
the State may not provide that only the author of the
wrong shall be liable for it, at least when, as here, the

ANNISTON MFG. CO. v. DAVIS.
337

Opinion of the Court.

remedy offered is adequate and backed by the responsibility of the State."
The same reasoning is applicable here. The Government has not denied its obligation to refund the amounts
found in the authorized proceeding to be recoverable, but
has recognized that obligation. In such a case, the substitution of an exclusive remedy directly against the Government is not an invasion of constitutional right. Nor
does the requirement of recourse to administrative procedure establish invalidity if legal rights are still suitably
protected. The immediate question is whether the authorized proceeding affords a fair and adequate remedy.
We accordingly inquire whether the prescribed procedure
gives an opportunity for a full and fair hearing and deterruination of all questions of fact and adequately proiides
for the protection of the legal rights of the claimant, embracing whatever right- of refund the claimant is entitled
to assert under the Federal Constitution.
Second. With respect to floor stock taxes, no serious
question is presented as to the adequacy of the remedy.
The remedy by suit is expressly preserved. If the Commissioner refuses refund, suit may be brought against
the United States in the Court of Claims or in the District Court for the recovery of the amount claimed to
have been illegally exacted. § 905.
Third. With respect to the refunding of processing
taxes, a special and exclusive administrative procedure is
provided. § 906. Disallowance by the Commissioner
of a claim of refund, in whole or part, is made final unless within three months the claimant files a petition for
hearing upon the merits by a Board of Review which the
Act establishes in the Treasury Department. The Board
is composed of nine members who are officers or employees of the Department and are designated by the Secretary of the Treasury. The Board is "to determine the

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

amount of refund due any claimant with respect to such
claim." The Commissioner is required to "make refund
of any such amount determined by a decision of the
Board which has become final." § 906 (b). The hearing, upon notice, before the Board is to be open to the
public and is to be conducted by a presiding officer who
is either a member of the Board or an officer or employee
of the Treasury Department designated by the Secretary
of the Treasury. The proceedings are to be in accordance
with the rules of practice and procedure prescbed by
the Board with the approval of the Secretary of the
Treasury save with respect to rules of evidence, which are
to be in accordance with those applicable in courts of
equity of the District of Columbia. The claimant and
the 'Commissioner are entitled "to be represented by
counsel, to have witnesses subpoenaed, and to examine
and cross examine witnesses." Provision is made to compel the attendance and testimony of witnesses' and the
production of books and papers from any place in the
United States and to require the taking of depositions.
§ 906 (c) (d). The presiding officers are to recommend
findings of fact and a decision to the Board or the proper
division thereof within six months after the conclusion of
the hearing. Briefs with respect to such recommendations
may be submitted within a specified time. The Board or
a division is to make its findings of fact and decision in
writing as quickly as practicable. The findings and decision of a division are to become those of the Board
within thirty days unless the Chairman has directed that
they be reviewed by the Board. Copies of the findings
and decision are to be mailed to the claimant and the
Commissioner. § 906 (e). There is a further provision
as to costs and fees. § 906 (f). The decision of the
Board is to become final in the same manner as decisions
of the Board of Tax Appeals under § 1005 of the Revenue
Act of 1926 as amended. § 906 (g); 26 U. S. C. 640.

ANNISTON MFG. CO. v. DAVIS.
337

345

Opinion of the Court.

Judicial review of the decision of the Board is provided.
That review may be had by a Circuit Court of Appeals'
or by the United States Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia, according to the residence or place of business of the claimant, or by any such court as may be designated by the Commissioner and the claimant by stipulation. Upon petition for review the Board is to certify
and file in the appropriate court a transcript of the
record upon which the findings and decision were based.
Thereupon, the Court of Appeals is to have "exclusive
jurisdiction to affirm the decision of the Board, or to modify or reverse such decision, if it is not in accordance with
law, with or without remanding the cause for a rehearing, as justice may require." § 906 (g). If the claimant
or the Commissioner applies to the Court of Appeals for
leave to adduce additional evidence the couit may order
it to be taken before the presiding officer if the court is
satisfied that the additional evidence is material and that
there were reasonable grounds for failure to adduce it
at the hearing. The Board may modify its findings and
decision by reason of such additional evidence, filing its
modified or new determination with the court. The judgment of the Court of Appeals is to be final, subject to review by this Court upon certification or certiorari as provided in §§ 239 and 240 of the Judicial Code.
We think that this plan of procedure provides for the
judicial determination of every question of law which the
claimant is entitled to raise. We find nothing in the
statute which limits the judicial review to questions of
statutory construction or of mere regularity of procedure.
The "law," with which the decision of the Board may be
in conflict, may be the fundamental law. Questions
of validity as well as of statutory authority or regularity
may be determined. These may relate to due process in
the hearing or in the refusal of a refund. The Government does not contest this construction but on the con-

346

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U.S.

trary affirns it. The Government recognizes and urges
that the jurisdiction given to the Court of Appeals "to
modify or reverse" the decision of the Board "if it is not
in accordance with law" includes the power to review all
questions of general and statutory law and all constitutional questions. Thus every constitutional right which
the petitioner here is entitled to invoke with respect to
the refund of the taxes which it has paid may be heard
and determined by the Court of Appeals and ultimately
by this Court upon a review of a decision reached in the
course of the prescribed administrative procedure. The
Government urges, and we think correctly, that if on such
a review any part of Title VII were held to be invalid,
"the taxpayer may recover all of the taxes to which he is
entitled under such a decision." Upon the judicial review of the action of the Board, the Court of Appeals
and this Court would have power "to direct the Board
to enter any designated judgment" and the Commissioner
is required to make refund of any amount which may
thus be determined to be due the claimant.'
Upon this point the Government states in its brief (pp. 104, 105):
"The established rule as to the proper scope of constitutional litigation can be applied in this case with no danger of injury to petitioner. If, upon an appropriate record and in the light of an actual'
attempt by the taxpayer to show the incidence of the processing tax,
this Court should hold any part of Title VII invalid, the taxpayer
may recover all of the taxes to which he is entitled under such a
decision, with interest at 6 per cent per annum (Sec. 908 (a); Sec.
614 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1928, c. 852, 45 Stat. 791). For,
whether or not Section 902 and Section 907 be held invalid, the Board
of Review would still remain as a mechanical means by which to enforce the decision of a circuit court of appeals or of this Court. Even
if Section 902 were held invalid, and recovery allowed on mere proof
of payment of Agricultural Adjustment Act taxes, the Board of Review would still have jurisdiction to review the allowance or disallowance of any claim, and the circuit courts of appeals and this
Court would still have power to direct the Board to enter any desig-

ANNISTON MFG. CO. v, DAVIS.
337

Opinion of the Court.

Fourth. The question then is whether, despite this
broad right of judicial review of the action of the Board,
the administrative scheme has such inherent constitutional defects that the petitioner should not be remitted
to that procedure. The inquiry has particular relation
to the provisions (1) as to burden of proof, § 902, (2) as
to presumptions, § 907, and (3) as to certain matters of
administrative detail.
The burden of proof.--Section 902, the full text of
which is set out in the margin,2 provides that no refund
nated judgment. And Section 906 (b) provides that 'the Commissioner shall make refund of any such amount determined by a
decision of the Board which has become final.'"
2
Sc. 902. Conditions on Allowance of Refunds.
"No refund shall be made or allowed, in pursuance of court decisions or otherwise, of any amount paid by or collected from .any
claimant as tax under the Agricultural Adjustment Act, unless the
claimant establishes to the satisfaction of the Commissioner in accordance with regulations prescribed by him, with the approval of
the Secretary, or to the satisfaction of the trial court, or the Board
of Review in cases provided for under Section 906, as the case
may be"(a) That he bore the burden of such amount and has not been
relieved thereof nor reimbursed therefor nor shifted such burden,
directly or indirectly, (1) through inclusion of such amount by the
claimant, or by any person directly or indirectly under his control,
or having control over him, or subject to the same common control,
in the price of any article with respect to which a tax was imposed
under the provisions of such Act, or in the price of any article processed from any commodity with respect to which a tax was imposed
under such Act, or in any charge or fee for services or processing; (2)
through reduction of the price paid for any such commodity; or (3)
in any manner whatsoever; and that no understanding or agreement,
written or oral, exists whereby he may be relieved of the burden of
such amount, be reimbursed therefor, or may shift the burden
thereof, or
"(b) That he has repaid unconditionally such amount to his vendee (1) who bore the burden thereof, (2) who has not been relieved
thereof nor reimbursed therefor, nor shifted such burden, directly or

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

shall be allowed unless the claimant establishes to the satisfaction of the Commissioner, or of the trial court, or of the
Board of Review in cases under § 906, that the claimant
bore the burden of the amount paid as tax and "has not
been relieved thereof nor reimbursed therefor nor shifted
such burden, directly or indirectly" (1) through the inclusion of the amount paid in the price of the product, (2)
through reduction of the price paid for the raw material,
or (3) "in any manner whatsoever."
According to the allegations of the complaint, the petitioner initially did bear the burden of the unconstitutional tax, as petitioner paid it. The question for administrative ;determination is whether the burden of that
payment has been shifted. So far as petitioner's contention may be taken to be that it is entitled to recover
by reason of the invalidity of the tax, although in fact
its burden has been "passed on" to another, the contention cannot be sustained. While the taxpayer was undoubtedly hurt when he paid the tax, if he has obtained
relief through the shifting of its burden, he is no longer
in a position to claim an actual injury and the refusal
of a refund in such a case cannot be regarded as a denial
of constitutional right.
That question was decided in United States v. Jefferson
Electric Co., 291 U. S.386, and the controlling principle
as to burden of proof was declared. There, actions at
law had been brought, one against the United States and
others against a revenue collector, to recover money
alleged to have been illegally exacted as an excise tax.
The ground of illegality was that the sales, with respect
to which the taxes were laid, were not within the purview of the tax statute. The question concerned the
indirectly, and (3) who is not entitled to receive any reimbursement
therefor from any other source, or to be relieved of such burden in
any manner whatsoever."

ANNISTON MFG. CO. v. DAVIS.
337

349

Opinion of the Court.

authority of the court to entertain the actions in view of
the provision of § 424 of the Revenue Act of 1928 relating
to refunds., Properly construed, that provision was taken
"as substantively limiting the right to a refund of taxes
of the designated class to instances where the taxpayer
either has not directly or indirectly collected the tax from
the purchaser or having so collected it has returned it to
him." This "substantive limitation" was deemed to be
"an element of the right to a refund of such taxes,"
although they were wholly invalid and not merely laid in
excess of what was lawful, and hence the statute required
that this element, like others, "be satisfactorily established in any proceedings where an asserted right to a refund is presented for examination and determination."
We held that the provision was applicable to judicial as
well as to administrative proceedings for refunds under
the Act. Id., p. 395.
We recognized that, under the
system then in force, in view of the illegality of the tax,
"there accrued to the taxpayer when he paid the tax a
right to have it refunded without any showing as to
whether he bore the burden of the tax or shifted it to the
purchasers." And it was further conceded that the provision of § 424 of the Revenue Act of 1928 applied "to
rights accrued theretofore and still subsisting," and subjected them to the restriction "that the taxpayer (a)
must show that he-alone has borne the burden of the
tax, or (b) if he has shifted the burden to the purchasers,
must give a bond promptly to use the refunded sum in
reimbursing them." Id., p. 401. But we were unable to
conclude that in imposing this restriction the section
struck down prior rights or did more "than to require that
it be shown or made certain that the money when refunded will go to the one who has borne the burden of
the illegal tax, and therefore is entitled in justice anj
good conscience to such relief." We held that there was
no infringement of due process of law in that restriction or

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

in placing upon the claimant the burden of proof. We
said (id., p. 402):
"If the taxpayer has borne the burden of the tax, he
readily can show it; and certainly there is nothing arbitrary in requiring that he make such a showing. If he
has shifted the burden to the purchasers, they and not he
have been the actual sufferers and are the real parties
in interest; and in such a situatipn there is nothing arbitrary in requiring, as a condition to refunding the tax to
him, that he give a bond to use the refunded money in
reimbursing them."
The opposing contention was found to be particularly
faulty in that it overlooked the fact that the statutes providing for refunds proceed on the same equitable principles that underlie an action in assumpsit for money
had and received. That action "aims at the abstract
justice of the case, and looks solely to the inquiry, whether
the defendant holds money, which ex aequo et bono belongs to the plaintiff." Id., p. 403.
The circumstance that under Title VII, here involved,
there is no provision for making a refund to particular
persons, to whom the burden of the invalid exaction may
be found to have been shifted, presents no sound distinction so far as the claimant is concerned. The controlling
principle is that there is no denial of constitutional right
in requiring the claimant to show, where it can be shown,
that he alone has borne 'the burden of the invalid tax
and has not shifted it to others.
Apart from this question, the gravamen of petitioner's
complaint is that § 902 demands the impossible; that it
sets up a, condition of recovery which in petitioner's case
cannot possibly be met. That is, that the statute not
only requires the claimant to show that the burden of the
tax has Inot been shifted, where that can be shown, but
bars recovery where in the nature of the case that cannot
be shown. Petitioner contends that it is within the

ANNISTON MFG. CO. v. DAVIS.
337

Opinion of the Court.

latter class. In its amended complaint, petitioner sets
forth at length the features of the operation of a cotton
mill such as its own. By reason of the nature of these
operations petitioner asserts that there is "an inherent
impossibility" of proving whether or to what extent the
burden of the taxes paid has been shifted to others.
This allegation is at best but a statement of a legal conclusion which must depend upon the facts as they appear
when proof is taken. The question is whether the petitioner is entitled to insist as a matter of constitutional
right upon trying out the question of impossibility in this
suit rather than in an administrative proceeding where
all the pertinent facts as to the course of business may be
presented and the conclusions they require both of fact
and law may be reached. This assertion of such a constitutional right rests upon a construction of § 902 to the
effect that if the facts, fully disclosed, afforded no basis
for any det&rmination as to the shifting of the burden of
the tax, and hence gave no warrant for a finding that the
burden had been shifted from the claimant to others, still
the statute would require a denial of the right to a refund. The claimant would then stand, by virtue of the
injury caused by the payment of the tax, not as one seeking relief when he had not been hurt, but as one who had
been hurt by a payment unconstitutionally required and
whose proved injury could not be said to have been redressed. It is in that aspect that the statute is assailed
as leaving the claimant without remedy for a deprivation
of his property without due process of law.
Despite the broad language of § 902, we do not think
that it should be construed as intended to deny a refund
in any case where a claimant is constitutionally entitled
to it. We apply the familiar canon which makes it our
duty, of two possible constructions, to adopt the one
which will save and not destroy. We cannot attribute to
Congress an intent to defy the Fifth Amendment or

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U.S.

"even to come so near to doing so as to raise a serious
question of constitutional law." Federal Trade Comm'n
v. American Tobacco Co., 264 U. S. 298, 307; PanamaR.
Co. v. Johnson, 264 U. S. 375, 390; Blodgett v. Holden,
275 U. S. 142, 148. When the Congress requires the
claimant, who has paid the invalid tax, to show that he
has not been reimbursed or has not shifted its burden, the
provision should not be construed as demanding the performance of a task, if ultimately found to be inherently
impossible, as a condition of relief to which the claimant
would otherwise be entitled. There is ample room for
the play of the statute within the range of possible determinations. Impossibility of proof may not be assumed.
It cannot be doubted that the requirement has appropriate and valid effect in placing upon the claimant the duty
to present fully all the facts pertaining to the question of
the shifting of the burden of the tax and in denying relief where the facts justify a conclusion that the burden
has been shifted from the claimant to others. When the
facts have been shown it becomes the duty of the Board of
Review to make its determination according to the legal
rights of the claimant. That is the necessary import of
the provision for judicial review, giving authority to the
reviewing court to modify or reverse the decision of the
Board "if it is not in accordance with law." Findings
that can properly be made upon the evidence must thus
support a decision according to legal right. And, as we
have seen, the reviewing court, and finally this Court,
may direct the Board "to enter any designated judgment" 8 to which the claimant is constitutionally entitled
and the Commissioner must refund the amount thus
determined to be due.
In saying this, we are not passing upon the constitutional right of petitioner to a refund or upon the question
3 See Note 1.

ANNISTON MFG. CO. v. DAVIS.
337

Opinion of the Court.

whether in its case the shifting of the burden of the tax
is or is not "susceptible of proof." Constitutional questions are not to be decided hypothetically. When particular facts control the decision they must be shown.
Borden's Farm Products Co. v. Baldwin, 293 U. S. 194,
208-210. Petitioner's contention as to impossibility of
proof is premature. Manifestly there is no impossibility
so far as the production of proof of petitioner's operations
or course of business is concerned. What is meant by
impossibility of proof is impossibility of determination
after these facts are in. Whether or not any such impossibility of determination will exist is a question which
properly should await the ascertainment of the facts.
For the present purpose it is sufficient to hold, and we do
hold, that the petitioner may constitutionally be required
to present all the pertinent facts in the prescribed administrative proceeding and may-there raise, and ultimately
may present for judicial review, any legal question which
may arise as the facts are developed.
These considerations also dispose of the contention
that § 902 "is so vague and uncertain that it is meaningless, and therefore affords no remedy." It is not necessary for the Congress, in insisting that a claimant should
not recover where it appeared that he had not borne the
burden of the tax, to attempt to formulate the conclusions which would be appropriate upon varying states of
fact. Petitioner's argument, drawn from the writings of
economists, is itself sufficient to show the futility of such
an effort. The Congress could, and did, lay down a general principle and leave its application to the facts as
they would appear in particular instances in a proceedingadapted to their full disclosure. The general principle
thus laid down is no more vague and indefinite than the
equitable doctrine which governs the right of recovery
in actions for money had and received.
146212°-37-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court

301 U. S.

The presumptions under § 907.-Petitioner also contests the validity of the administrative proceeding because of the rules of evidence and presumptions which
the statute establishes. Section 907 provides, with respect to processing taxes, that it "shall be prima facie
evidence that the burden of such amount was borne by
the claimant to the extent (not to exceed the amount of
the tax) that the average margin per unit of the commodity 'processed was lower during the tax period than
the average margin was during the period before and
after the tax"; and that "If the average margin during
the tax period was not lower, it shall be prima facie evidence that none of the burden of such amount was borne
by the claimant but that it was shifted to others."
The "tax period" is defined as the period in which the
claimant actually paid the tax to a collector and ends with
the last payment. The "period before and after the
tax" is defined as "the twenty-four months (except that
in the case of tobacco it shall be the twelve months) immediately preceding the effective date of. the processing
tax, and* the six months, February to July, 1936, inclusive." Provision is made for the computation of What is
called the "average margin" for the respective periods,
the "margin" being determined by deducting from the
gross sales value of articles processed the cost of the commodity processed and the processing tax.
Petitioner contends that the presumptions are entirely
arbitrary and therefore unconstitutional. There is a general allegation to that effect in petitioner's amended complaint. But it cannot be said that the comparisons set
up between the results of operations during the "tax
period" and the "period before and after the tax" are
wholly, irrelevant. Nor can it now be determined what
will be the effect of the presumptions. While petitioner
assails them, its complaint contains no allegation as to
their actual effect in relation to petitioner's operations.

ANNISTON MFG. CO. v. DAVIS.
337

Opinion of the Court.

Non constat but that they may work to petitioner's advantage. For all that we know the presumption may
establish prima facie that petitioner has borne the burden
of the tax. Petitioner invites us to enter into a purely
speculative inquiry for the purpose of condemning
statutory provisions which have not been tried out and
the effect of which cannot now be definitely perceived.
We must decline that invitation and adhere to the fundamental principle which governs our determination of constitutional questions. Liverpool, New York & Philadelphia Steamship Co. v. Commissioners, 113 U. S. 33, 39;
Cincinnati v. Vester, 281 U. S. 439, 448, 449; Ashwander
v. Tennessee Valley Authority, 297 U. S. 288, 324.
The stated presumptions are rebuttable. If they work
adversely to its interests, petitioner will have ample opportunity to prove all the rebutting facts. Section 907
(e) provides that either the claimant or the commissioner
may rebut the presumptions "by proof of the actual extent to which the claimant shifted to others the burdens
of the processing tax." There follows a detailed provision as to what such proof may include. But that provision is not exclusive. It is expressly stated that the
proof in rebuttal shall not be limited to what is thus described. Petitioner urges that the statute requires that
-this proof shall be of the "actual extent" to which the
burden of the tax has been shifted, and recurs to the
argument as to the inherent impossibility of producing
such proof. What we have already said with respect to
that argument is applicable in this connection. We do
not think that Congress was attempting to require the
impossible. The permissible, and we think the true, construction of § 907 (e) is that the words "actual extent"
are used in contradistinction to the presumed extent,
according to the prima facie presumption to which the
proof in rebuttal is addressed. In the light of the context, and of the entire scheme of the administrative pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

ceeding, we are of the opinion that the provision was intended to afford, and does afford, full opportunity to the
claimant to present any evidence which may be pertinent
to the questions to be determined by the Board of Review and which may be.-appropriate to overcome any
presumption which might be indulged either under § 907
(a) or otherwise.
Procedural due process in the conduct of the administrative hearing.-P.titioner also complains that under
§ 906 (d) the hearing is to be conducted, not by the
Board of Review, or a division thereof, but by a "presiding officer" designated by the Secretary of the Treasury; and that under § 906 (e) the presiding officer is to
recommend to the Board, or a division, findings of fact
and a decision. Petitioner urges that the Board, or its
division, is not required by the statute to consider the
evidence and hence that the procedure contemplated -by
§ 906 does not meet the requirements of due process. We
find no merit in these contentions. There is no provision
of the statute which is necessarily inconsistent with the
observance of the due process required in hearings by
administrative bodies. Interstate Commerce Comm'n v.
Louisville & N. R. Co., 227 U. S.88, 91; United States v.
Abilene & Southern Ry. Co., 265 U. S. 274, 288; Morgan
v. United States, 298 U. S. 468, 480, 481; Ohio Bell Telephone Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n, ante, p. 292. "The
provision for a hearing implies both the privilege of introducing evidence and the duty of deciding in accordance with it." Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S. 258, 265.
Whatever the privilege or duty of the presiding officer,
and whatever may be his recommendation, the statute requires that "the Board or a division shall make its findings of fact and decision in writing" and shall certify and
file with the court on judicial review a transcript of the
record upon which its findings and decision are based.

ANNISTON MFG. CO. v. DAVIS.
337

357

Opinion of the Court.

The court has jurisdiction "to affirm the decision of the
Board or to modify or reverse such decision." If additional evidence is taken "the Board may modify its findings of fact and decision" by reason of such evidence.
The whole scheme of the administrative proceeding presupposes hearing and determination in accordance with
the demands of due process. The Board which makes its
findings and renders its decision must consider the evidence and base its findings and decision upon it, and until
the contrary appears we must assume that the Board will
do so. Morgan v. United States, supra.
We conclude that the authorized procedure provides
for a full and fair hearing and determination of all matters of fact and that, through judicial review, it provides
for the protection of all the legal rights of the petitioner
including any constitutional right which it may be entitled to invoke with respect to the refund which it seeks.
The petitioner may thus obtain through this proceeding
whatever judgment its case warrants, a judgment which
the Governmept, by virtue of the requirement that the
Commissioner shall make refund accordingly, binds itself
to pay.
The judgment of dismissal is affirmed, but upon the
grounds stated in this opinion.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE and MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO concur
in the opinion save that they reserve their vote as to the
constitutional or statutory rights of the taxpayer in the
event that it shall be impossible to ascertain whether
there has been a shifting of the tax, an examination of
those rights, in their judgment, being unnecessary now,
since "impossibility of proof," in the language of the
opinion, "may not be assumed."

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS dissents.

