OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Petitioner.

301 U.S.

WASHINGTON, VIRGINIA & MARYLAND COACH
CO. v. NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 469:

Argued February 10, 1937.-Decided April 12, 1937.

1. A corporation engaged in the business of transporting passengers
and express, for hire, between points in the District of Columbia
and points in Virginia, held an instrumentality of interstate commerce and subject to provisions of the National Labor Relations Act
against discharge of employees because of their membership in a
union and their advocacy of collective bargaining. P. 146.
2. The National Labor Relations Act limits the jurisdiction of the
National Labor Relations Board to instances within the commerce
power, and its orders in excess of its jurisdiction may be challenged
by any party aggrieved. P. 146.
3. Claims not made in the petition for certiorari are not open for
decision. P. 146.
4. Findings of the National Labor Relations Board upon matters
within its jurisdiction will not be reversed or modified unless
clearly improper- or unsupported by substantial evidence. P. 147.
5. An order of the National Labor Relations Board requiring a common carrier by motor to reinstate in its employment several drivers
and garage mechanics found by the Board to have been discharged
because of their membership in a union, and to make good the
losses of pay due to their discharge, and directing the carrier to
post notices of its intention to comply with the Board's order,held valid upon the authority of National Labor Relations Board v.
Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp., ante, p. 1. P. 147.
85 F. (2d) 990, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 299 U. S. 533, to review a judgment for
enforcement of an order of the National Labor Relations
Board, entered by the court below upon petition of the
Board under the National Labor Relations Act.

Messrs. Robert E. Lynch and William J. Hughes, Jr.,
with whom Mr. William E. Leahy was on the brief for
petitioner.

WASHINGTON COACH CO. v. LABOR BD. 143
132

--

/

Counsel for Respondent.

The evidence does not sustain the findings.
Where a constitutional right is alleged to have been
violated, the federal courts can make their own independent determination of all questions of law and fact.
The Act is unconstitutional in its entirety.
Petitioner has the necessary standing to argue inseparability.
The statute shows on its face a comprehensive scheme
to regulate intrastate as well as interstate activities, with
an object in view which could not be attained through
the regulation of interstate relationships alone. Hence
it appears affirmatively that Congress would never have
passed the statute to regulate the few remaining lines of
interstate activity if it could not constitutionally regulate
labor relations in intrastate industry as well. In this
aspect the question is one of statutory construction, i. e.,
having already in the Railway Labor Act of 1934 regulated the railroads and allied transportation systems with
respect to labor, can it be fairly argued that, the "comprehensive scheme" and the "object" of the Act being
outlawed, Congress intended in the present Act to regulate the few remaining interstate activities such as bus
companies and communications systems. In this respect
the present case seems somewhat similar to the TradeMark Cases, 100 U. S. 82.
This Court having before it a number of cases involving the intrastate application of the Act, it is proper
for the present petitioner to argue the lack of intention
on the part of Congress to apply the Act to petitioner
if the Act is held unconstitutional as beyond the commerce clatfse in an intrastate case.
Mr. CharlesFahy, with whom Attorney General Cummings, Solicitor General Reed, and Messrs. Charles E.
Wyzanski, Jr., A. H. Feller, Charles A. Horsky, Robert
B. Watts, Philip Levy, and A. Norman Somers were on
the brief, for respondent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

By leave of Court, Messrs. Charlton Ogburn and Arthur E. Reyman, as amici curiae, filed a brief on behalf
of the American Federation of Labor et al., supporting
the validity of the Act.
By leave of Court, Messrs. Ivan Bowen, Charles H.
Young, and M. H. Boutelle, as amici curiae, filed a brief
on behalf of the Pennsylvania Greyhound Lines, Inc., et
al., challenging the validity of the Act.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In this case the petitioner, an operator of motor buses
for the transportation of passengers and express for hire
between points in the District of ColLmbia and in the
State of Virginia, challenges the enforcement of the National Labor Relations Act against it as in contravention
of the commerce clause and tie Fifth and Seventh
Amendments of the Constitution.
Pursuant to a written charge filed with the National
Labor Relations Board by Local No. 1079 of the Amalgamated Association of Street, Electric Railway and
Motor Coach Employees of America, a labor organization, the Board issued a complaint alleging that the petitioner had discharged and refused to reinstate certain
drivers and garage workmen because of their membership
and activity in Local No. 1079 and that this constituted
engaging in unfair labor practices affecting commerce
within the intent of § 8, subsections (1) and (3), and § 2,
subsections (6) and (7) of the National Labor Relations
Act.' The petitioner appeared specially and filed a
motion to dismiss the complaint on constitutional
grounds, and, without waiving its objections to the
'July 5, 1935, c. 372, 49 Stat. 449; U. S. C. Supp. I, Tit. 29,
§§ 151, ff.

WASHINGTON COACH CO. v. LABOR BD. 145
Opinion of the Court.

142

Board's jurisdiction, filed an answer substantially admitting the allegations of the complaint with respect to the
interstate character of its business, admnitting the discharge and refusal to reinstate the employees mentioned
in the complaint, and alleging that its action was
motivated by the employees' inefficiency and not affected
by their membership or activity in the union. The
Board overruled the objections to its jurisdiction, fully
heard the case, received evidence offered by both parties,
and at the conclusion of the hearing denied a motion to
dismiss the proceeding on the ground that the evidence
did not support the allegations of the complaint, except
as to three of the twenty-one employees concerned as to
whom the complaint was dismissed for lack of evidence.
The Board rendered a decision setting forth its findings
of fact and entered an order prohibiting the petitioner
from discrimination against its employees based 11pon
membership in a union or advocacy of collective bargaining, and requiring the petitioner to restore eighteen of
the discharged employees to their former positions with
compensation for loss due to their discharge and to post
notices to the effect that it would comply with the
Board's order.2
Because of non-compliance with the order the Board
filed a petition in the Circuit Court of Appeals for its
enforcement. - That court refused to disturb the findings
of fact made by the Board, overruled the contentions as
to unconstitutionality of the act as applied to petitioner
and passed a decree enforcing the order.'
While the petitioner, in its specifications of error, attacks the holding of the Circuit Court of Appeals that
the act as applied does not violate the Fifth and Seventh
21

N. L. R. B. 769.

'85 F. (2d) 990.
146212°-37-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

Amendments, the argument in brief and at the bar was
confined to two propositions: first, that the act is an
attempt on the part of Congress to regulate labor relations in all employments whether interstate or intrastate
and as it is void as an attempted regulation of intrastate
commerce the whole must fall because its provisions are
inseverable; secondly, that the evidence does not sustain
the findings and the Board committed substantial error
in the exclusion of evidence.
First. No contention is made that the petitioner is
other -than an instrumentality of interstate commerce.
It is engaged in interstate transportation for hire. Our
decisions in Texas and N. 0. R. Co. v. Brotherhood of
Railway- and Steamship Clerks, 281 U. S. 548, and
Virginian Railway Co. v. System Federation'No.40, 300
U. S. 515, put beyond debate the validity of the statute as
applied to the petitioner. The contention that the act
on its face seeks to regulate labor relations in all employments, whether in interstate commerce or not, is plainly
untenable. As we have had occasion to point out in decisions rendered this day the act limits the jurisdiction of
the Board to instances which fall within the commerce
power, and if the Board should exceed the jurisdiction
conferred upon it, any party aggrieved is at liberty to
challenge its action.
Second. The petition for certiorari made no mention
of any claim with respect to the sufficiency of the evidence to support the findings. In the light of this fact
the question is not open for decision here.' But, were
this not so, we should not review the facts, since § 10 (e)
of the act provides that "the findings of the Board as
to the facts, if supported by evidence, shall be conclu'Alice State Bank v. Houston Pasture Co., 247 U. S. 240, 242;
Helvering v. Taylor, 293 U. S. 507, 511; Clark v. Williard, 294 U. S.
211, 216; Morehead v. Tipaldo, 298 U. S. 587, 605.

WASHINGTON COACH CO. v. LABOR BD. 147
142

Opinion of the Court.

sive," and there was substantial evidence to support the
findings.
This is not a case of alleged confiscation," nor is it one
where the Board lacked jurisdiction, 6 for admittedly the
petitioner's activities are in interstate commerce. The
complaint is merely of error in appreciating and weighing
evidence. In the case of statutory provisions like § 10 (e),
applicable to other administrative tribunals, we have refused to review the evidence or weigh the testimony and
have declared we will reverse or modify the findings only
if clearly improper or not supported by substantial evidence.7 The contentions respecting the rejection of evidence are not well founded.
Third. The specifications of error addressed to other
questions are answered by the decision of this court in
National Labor Relations Board v. Jones & Laughlin
Steel Corp., ante, p. 1.
The judgment is
.Affirmed.
'Compare St. Joseph Stock Yards Co. v. United States, 298 U. S.
38; Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. United States, 298 U. S. 349, 368.
'Compare Crowell v. Benson, 285 U. S. 22.
'Florida v. United States, 292 U. S. 1, 12; Federal Trade Comm'n
v. Algoma Lumber Co., 291 U. S. 67, 73; Del Vecchio v. Bowers, 296
U. S. 280; Acker v. United States, 298 U. S. 426, 433, 434.

