OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Petitioner.

301 U. S.

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v. FRIED-•
MAN-HARRY MARKS CLOTHING CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

Nos. 422 and 423.

Argued February 11, 1937.-Decided April 12,

1937.
The National Labor Relations Act, and orders made under it by
the National Labor Relations Board, sustained upon the authority of National Labor Relations Board v. Jones & Laughlin Steel
Corp., ante, p. 1, as applied to a manufacturer of garments, having its factory in Virginia but which imported its cloth from other
States and sold almost all of the finished products in other
States. P. 72.

85 F. (2d) 1, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

299 U. S. 535, to review decrees of the Cir-

cuit Court of Appeals refusing to enforce orders of the
National Labor Relations Board.
Messrs. Charles Fahy and Charles E. Wyzanski, Jr.,
with whom Attorney General Cummings, Solicitor General Reed, and Messrs. A. H. Feller, Charles A. Horsky,
Robert B. Watts, Laurence A. Knapp, and A. L. Wirin
were on the brief, for petitioner.*
I. Where the situation in a particular enterprise presents the likelihood that a labor dispute, if it occurred,
would involve an intent to restrain commerce, then the
Board can apply the preventive measures of this statute
to that enterprise. It is not claimed in the present case
that there is any proof of the existence of an actual intent
to affect commerce. However, respondent's enterprise
*Arguments in this case are summarized from the briefs.

Extracts

from the oral arguments in this and other Labor Act cases will appear
in an appendix in the bound volume.

LABOR BOARD v. CLOTHING CO.
58

Argument for Petitioner.

presents a situation in which a labor controversy over
employees' basic rights of self-organization and freedom
from interference in choice of representatives for purposes
of collective bargaining would be likely to involve the
purpose not merely by stopping production, but also by
interrupting or hindering actual sales and shipments in
interstate commerce.
Over 125,000 employees in the men's clothing industry
are Inembers of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of
America, the largest collective bargaining agency in the
industry. Acting through that representative those employees have secured collective agreements which cover
the greater part of the industry. By those agreements,
wages have been increased, hours shortened, and other
ameliorating standards of employment obtained and
maintained. By them, also, the processes of negotiatioR
and arbitration have been substituted for the strike and
lock-out as a peaceful method of solving industrial problems affecting employer and employee.
Employees who are members of this organization will
not lightly yield to influences endangering the favorable
conditions of employment now established and existing
in the principal centers of the industry. On the contrary,
it is only reasonable to assume that they would endeavor effectively to counteract any such dangers. Dangers of the character suggested in fact exist today.
With effective competition between the industry's enterprises an accepted fact regardless of location, and
bearing in mind the purpose and effect of the migration
of enterprises, it seems unavoidable that the members of
the Amalgamated Clothing Workers should, as they do,
regard the industry As one whose economic organization
is not based on the interests of each individual enterprise, but is one in which union conditions, to be maintained at all, must prevail generally. Industrial strife

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Petitioner.

301 U. S.

in respondent's enterprise would, therefore, be likely to
have as its object, not merely the application of economic pressure upon respondent, but the cessation of
shipments from respondent's plant into the national market, in order to safeguard the organization and collective
bargaining rights in competing enterprises and areas
beyond the State of Virginia. Cf. Coronado Coal Co. v.
United Mine Workers, 268 U. S. 295, 310.
We are not here contending that the circumstances described above establish a valid' basis for wage stabilization legislation under the commerce clause. We do contend that such circumstances give rise to a reasonable
probability of industrial strife involving the purpose to
restrain actual sales and shipments in the channels of
interstate commerce; and that they do establish a valid
basis for a statute such as this, dealing solely with the
problem of labor disputes as they affect the national
interest.
II. It is true that respondent's enterprise is not so
clearly within a stream of interstate commerce as that of
the Jones & Laughlin Steel Corporation, ante, p. 1.
Nevertheiess, we submit that respondent's enterprise may
be considered as an integral part of a stream of commerce
among the States.
This stream or flow begins with the movement of the
raw wool from the West to the New England States.
Most of the cloth moves on in interstate commerce to
the centers of the industry, such as New York (50.2%
of the enterprises), Pennsylvania (10.4%), and Maryland (10.2%).
This interstate flow of goods from mill to manufacturer is likewise true to a substantial extent of many
other materials essential to clothing.
Large interstate movements occur even during the actual fabrication of the garments. The purchaser of the
cloth commonly cuts the fabric to shape and size, but

LABOR BOARD v. CLOTHING CO.
58

Argument for Petitioner.

the actual sewing, finishing, and pressing are frequently
done in other States.
The interstate movement in the distribution of products is, of course, a matter of common knowledge.
The Board was justified in applying the preventive
measures of the Act to respondent in order to remove
the causes of industrial strife which would be apt to
spread, by sympathetic action, until a substantial part
of all the commerce in men's clothing had been restrained.
'Respondent is, compared to other firms in the clothing industry, of relatively large size, being among the
fifty largest of the three thousand firms which make up
the industry. Industrial strife in its plant would cause
the cessation of this large volume of interstate commerce even if confined to respondent's enterprise. Even
if it were so limited, however, it seems impossible to
believe that Congress is powerless' to prevent a burden
on commerce of that magnitude. As we have shown in
the brief for the Board in National Labor Relations
Board v. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp., ante, p. 1, the
effect of industrial strife on interstate commerce, even
though arising out of local activity, is immediate and
would be substantial here. Certainly the cessation of
purchases and shipments by an enterprise of the size of
respondent's cannot be regarded as without national significance. Nor can the fact that other units of the industry could probably increase production sufficiently to
supply the deficiency caused by respondent be determinative of the power of Congress, for the disruption of
the channels of commerce, even with no change in the
amount of material shipped, is in itself a burden on
interstate commerce within the constitutional concern
of Congress.
III. Where Congress, after investigation, directs its
legislation to the prevention of certain activities which.
even though usually only of local concern, recur with

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Respondent.

301 U. S.

such frequency as to constitute an undue burden on
commerce, those activities may be subjected to the control of Congress.
If, as we contend, the control power of Congress extends to recurrent industrial strife in these interstate
enterprises, there can be no doubt that the order of the
Board in the present case was within its jurisdiction.
Respondent is dependent upon the products of States
other than Virginia for almost 100% of the woolen and
worsted goods which it uses. The same condition prevails with respect to cotton, rayon and silk linings, felt,
wigan and cotton tape, Hymo and under-collar cloth.
It can fairly be said that the contribution of Virginia
enterprises to the operations conducted at respondent's
plant is negligible.
Mr. Leonard Weinberg, with whom Mr. Harry J. Green
was on the brief, for respondent.
The Act is unconstitutional. Its real purpose is social
and economic, and to be accomplished in an arbitrary,
capricious and discriminatory manner through unionization of all industry by fiat.
The validity of legislation depends upon its true substance, not upon its form or its declaration of "Findings
and Policy." Railroad Retirement Board v. Alton R. Co.,
295 U. S. 330, 363, 371, 374; United States v. Butler, 297
U. S. 1; United States v. Constantine,296 U. S. 287, 296;
St. Joseph Stock Yards Co. v. United States, 298 U. S. 38,
51, 52; Carterv. Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S. 238, 289, 291.
The "Findings and Policy" of § 1 of the Act attempt to
conceal the real objectives in a vain effort to justify illegality. The objectives avowed in the Title are belied
by the terms of the Act itself.
The Act is arbitrary and capricious. The most significant feature is its utter failure to regulate the practices
of labor unions or to make them responsible, in any degree, for their acts or for the acts of their representatives.

LABOR BOARD v. CLOTHING CO.
58

Argument for Respondent.

It goes farther in assisting unionization and disarming
employers than any previous legislation ever enacted in
any country operating under a republican form of government. If strikes and industrial strife burden or obstruct interstate commerce, and if Congress really intends
to eliminate them, mutual obligations must be placed on
both employer and employee.
The Act arbitrarily discriminates against non-union
workers, by practically requiring every worker to join a
labor union, or be bound by its agreements with his employer, or forfeit his job. He cannot turn to his employer,
because the employer is forbidden by § 8 to take any steps
whatever to help him. He cannot turn to the Labor Relations Board, because the Act gives it no jurisdiction
over any complaints against labor unions. While § 8
prohibits an employer from discharging any employee because he is a member of a labor union, the same section
gives him the right to discharge his employee if he refuses
to become a member.
Thus the Act fosters and gives statutory sanction to the
"closed shop," traditionally the fundamental objective and
prime demand of every union. Not only that, but this
section 8 places the bewildered and helpless employer at
the mercy of rival unions, each of which may be demanding, on its own behalf, a closed shop, one being in the
ascendancy one day and the other the next.
Section 9 provides that when a majority of employees
are members of a labor organization, the employer must
bargain collectively with it, and the terms of that bargain
shall be binding upon non-union workers. The only recourse open to non-union workers is that found in subsection (a) of § 9, that they "shall have the right at any
time to present grievances to their employer." What a
mockery this is!
The Act discriminates in favor of a selected type of
labor organization and arbitrarily outlaws all others.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Respondent.

301 U. S.

Subdivision 2 of § 8 refers to "any" organization of
workers, and makes it unlawful for an employer to contribute financial "or other support" to it. Then, by
subdivision 3 of § 8, the employer is prohibited from
contracting with such an organization of his workers.
All company unions and local organizations of workers
are thereby arbitrarily outlawed. This intolerant, bigoted
and prejudiced attitude exemplified not only in the Act
but by the decisions of the Board, is emphasized by the
provisions contained in subdivision 2 of § 8 and subdivision (a) of § 9, which provide that the employer may
"confer" with his individual employees and that., they
may "present grievances" to him, "subject to rules and
regulations made and published by the Board." In other
words, the employer may talk to his employees about
their work and they, on their part, may talk to him
about it, only at the times and under the conditions prescribed by the National Labor Relations Board.
Thus, this Act actually erects a barrier between their
free intercourse and relations, attributes improper motives both to all employers and their workers not having
union agreements, prevents even the possibility of mutual understanding of mutual problems, and forces them
to deal with each other at arms' length.
Certainly, it need not be argued that the efficiency of
employees is enhanced, and labor turnover decreased, in
proportion to the employer's ability to inspire and hold
the goodwill, loyalty,, confidence, and co~peration of his
employees by his friendly association with and sympathetic attitude toward them and their interests. This is
fundamental in good business management. It must be
obvious that no considerations of general public welfare
or industrial peace, much less the regulation of interstate commerce, dictated this arbitrary distinction between company unions and national labor unions, but

LABOR BOARD v. CLOTHING CO.
58

Argument for Respondent.

that the outlawing of company unions was inserted in
this Act solely at the behest of the national labor unions,
which sought by statutory enactment to destroy all organizations of workers in industry which they did not or
could not control.
The administrative procedure outlined in the Act, and
the procedure adopted by the Board in its administration of the Act, demonstrate its discriminatory, arbitrary,
unreasonable, and unlawful character.
Manufacturing is a purely local activity which may
not be regulated under the commerce clause.
In the Schechter case the articles were imported from
other States in advance of the activity over which the
Federal Government sought to impose labor regulations. In the Carter case the conditions regulated preceded the exportation of the coal to other States. In
the present case, raw materials are imported into Virginia before the manufacturing operations take place,
and the finished product thereafter finds its way into
other States. This factual difference has no legal
significance.
The dealings and transactions between the respondent
and its employees, with respect to and in the course of
manufacture of its product, bear no relationship to interstate commerce.
Here the Board is driven to the following sophistry:
(1) men's clothing is an important commodity; (2) the
raw materials necessary come from various States of the
Union and from foreign lands to the point of manufacture; (3) the clothing is produced in only some of the
States, while it is shipped to and used in all of them;
(4) employees in this industry are not on a level with
their employers with respect to bargaining powers; (5)
to secure an equal footing for them it is necessary that
they be permitted to organize and exercise their bargain14 6212*

3

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Respondent.

301 U. S.

ing powers through organizations; (6) labor organizations must be permitted complete freedom, to attempt
to unionize industries and business, because they offer
the best medium for representation of employees; (7)
strikes, industrial strife and unrest are the inevitable result of the failure of employers to recognize the rights of
their employees to organize and bargain collectively; (8)
when these conditions exist the movement of commerce
among the various States may be affected and impaired;
(9) if the flow of interstate commerce is interfered with,
a decrease in purchasing power may result and may lead
to economic depression; and (10) that therefore and
thereby interstate commerce is directly affected.
Not only is this sophistry specious and fallacious, and
beyond the realm of any valid legal concept, but it is especially ridiculous in the light of the particular facts in
this case.
When it is sought to apply it here to this case, the Government is constrained to make even these additional assumptions:
(11) that the discharge of nineteen employees and the
hostility of the employer toward the union might cause
other employees to become suspicious of and dissatisfied
.with their employer; (12) unrest might be caused in the
plant; (13) other employees might join the union; (14)
more discharges might follow; (15) such discharges might
produce a strike; (16) respondent might not be able to
obtain new workers to replace strikers; (17) respondent
might not have sufficient finished product on hand to
supply the demands of his customers during the strike;
(18) production of merchandise might fall below demand;
(19) the amount of respondent's goods moving in interstate commerce might decrease; (20) such decrease might
suffice to "affect the free flow of commerce" in men's
clothing; and (21) such an effect upon interstate commerce would be a "direct" one.

LABOR BOARD v. CLOTHING CO.
58

Argument for Respondent.

The record in this case directly belies such hypotheses.
Respondent discharged nineteen of its eight hundred employees. There is no evidence that the garments upon
which they were working were destined to be shipped to
customers outside, rather than within, the State of Virginia. There was and has been no disorder, no strife, no
interference with the orderly conduct of the business of
respondent, and no strike resulting from the discharge of
these workers. The action of respondent, undefended in
this case, has not burdened, obstructed, or affected the
flow of interstate commerce, nor has it tended to burden,
obstruct or affect the flow of interstate commerce. It has
not even affected in any way the flow of production in
respondent's own factory, much less the flow of interstate
commerce or the flow of men's clothing into interstate
commerce.
But the Government contends it has the right to utterly
disregard the facts of this case and the patent actuality
that the alleged unfair labor practices in no wise burdened
or obstructed interstate or even intrastate commerce. It.
argues that the men's clothing industry is an important
national industry; that the industry will be able to function better and with less strife if unions are encouraged;
that labor disputes between employers and employees
have in the past caused and will continue to cause strikes
and labor unrest; and that such recurrent controversies
and evils affect production, consumption and the flow of
the article in interstate commerce, and, theifefore, the
Federal Government may prevent as well as remedy such
evils.
Exactly the same contention was made and rejected in
the Carter case.
Five different Circuit Courts of Appeals have thus far
passed upon cases involving the question of whether this
Act is, under the commerce clause, applicable to various
manufacturing businesses. Without a dissenting voice

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Respondent.

301 U. S.

the proposition has been rejected. Foster Brothers Mfg.
Co. v. National Labor Relations Board, CCA-4, 85 F.
(2d) 984; Fruehauf Trailer Co. v. National Labor Relations Board, CCA-6, 85 F. (2d) 391; Pratt v. Stout,
CCA-8, 85 F. (2d) 172; National Labor Relations Board
v. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp., CCA-5, 83 F. (2d) 998;
National Labor Relations Board v. Friedman-Harry
Marks Clothing Co., CCA-2, 85 F. (2d) 1.
This Act violates the Fifth Amendment in four particulars:
First, subsections 3 and 4 of § 8 attempt to regulate
the conditions under which an employer may engage his
workers and under which he may discharge them. This
actually substitutes management by the Board for that
of the owner of the business.
Even from the standpoint of the employee, these subsections are an arbitrary and unreasonable interference
with his rights. Moreover, they place union employees
in a favored status over non-union workers as to tenure
of employment and advancement therein. Cf. Rosenthal-Ettlingerv. Schlossberg, 226 N. Y. S. 762.
Second, § 9 (a) prohibits an employer from dealing individually with his employees, and from dealing with
minority groups of his employees, in respect of rates of
pay, wages, hours or other conditions of employment.
It makes agreements between the majority group and
the employer, as to all conditions of employment, binding upon all individual workers and upon all minority
groups, thereby depriving each of them of his right to
make his own terms with his employer. Cf. Carter v.
Carter Coal Co., supra, p. 311.
Third, subsection 5 of § 8 makes it an unfair labor
practice for an employer "to refuse to bargain collectively
with the representatives of his employees, subject to the
provisions of § 9 (a)."

LABOR BOARD v. CLOTHING CO.
58

Argument for Respondent.

The old National Labor Relations Board, set up under
the terms of the National Industrial Recovery Act, as
well as the present National Labor Relations Board, operating under the National Labor Relations Act, have
uniformly and consistently held in numerous cases that
this requirement, that an employer collectively bargain
with his employees, means that the employer shall continue to bargain with his employees until an agreement
actually has been reached.
With the intent of this provision thus disclosed, it will
be seen that this section of the National Labor Relations
Act interferes with the rights of the employer by requiring him to enter into contractual negotiations with
persons with whom he may not-care to contract and
coercing him into agreeing to terms which may not be
acceptable to him.
The worst feature of this so-called "collective bargaining" lies in the fact that it does not require bargaining
by both parties to the controversy. The employer is
forced to bargain. He must recede from his original position in order to compromise with the union demands;
and then he is bound to carry out his agreement. On the
other hand, the union cannot be required to bargain,
even if the employer desires or demands it. It need not
retreat from its original demands, however preposterous; and it and the employees it represents are not
bound and cannot be compelled to carry out any agreement it makes.
Fourth, subsection 3 of § 8 specifically provides that
an employer may agree with the majority of his employees, through collective bargaining, to employ only
union members; while, at the same time, §§ 7, 8, and 9,
make it unlawful for an employer to agree to employ only
non-union workers. This invades the rights of individual'
workers and employers by permitting unions, through the

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

medium of compulsory collective bargaining, to prescribe
that non-union employees shall join their union as a condition precedent to obtaining or retaining their positions, at the same time making it unlawful for any individual employee or group of employees to obtain an
agreement from his or their employer not to employ
union workers.
Cf. Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578, 589; Adair v.
United States, 208 U. S. 161; Adkins v. Children's Hospital, 261 U. S. 525; Morehead v. New York ex rel. Tipaldo, 298 U. S. 587; IVolif v. Kansas, 262 U. S. 522, s. c.,
267 U. S. 552. Distinguishing: Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v.
Railway Clerks, 281 U. S.548.
The basic purpose of the Act is to accomplish compulsory collective bargaining, binding upon minority
employees; this being invalid, the entire statute must
fall.
The Act gives to the Board, and the Board has assumed, powers which, if valid at all, may be exercised
only by Congress and the duly constituted courts of the
United States.
The order of the Board requiring the reinstatement of
the employees, with back pay, is arbitrary and illegal.

Ma.

CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The National Labor Relations Board, by its orders of
March 28, 1936, required the respondent, Friedman-Harry
Marks Clothing Company, Inc., to cease and desist from
discharging any of its employees or otherwise discriminating in regard to the tenure and conditions of their employment, and from threatening such actioi., for the reason that such employees have joined or assisted the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America or otherwise engaged in union activity; from maintaining surveillance

LABOR BOARD v. CLOTHING CO.
58

Opinion of the Court.

of the activities of the labor organization and of their
employees in connection therewith; and from interfering in any manner with, or coercing, its employees in the
exercise of their right to self-organization and representation for the purpose of collective bargaining or other mutual aid or protection as guaranteed in § 7 of the National
Labor Relations Act. The orders also required respondent to offer reinstatement to certain discharged employees, to make good their loss of pay, and to post notices for
thirty days that respondent would cease and desist from
the practices restrained by the orders. The Circuit Court
of Appeals refused to enforce the orders, 85 F. (2d) 1,
and this Court granted certiorari.
The proceeding was initiated by the National Labor
Relations Board upon charges that the respondent had
discharged certain employees because they had engaged
in union activities. The Board issued two complaints
alleging unfair labor practices within the meaning of the
National Labor Relations Act. Notice of hearing was
given. Respondent, appeared specially and moved to dismiss the complaints upon the grounds that the Act, and
the proceedings before the Board, were in contravention
of Articles I and III and the First, Fifth, Sixth, Seventh,
Eighth, Ninth, Tenth and Thirteenth Amendments of
the Constitution of the United States. Reserving these
objections, respondent filed answers denying all the allegations of the complaints except that respondent is a
Virginia corporation engaged in the business of manufacturing men's clothing in Richmond. The Board overruled the objections to its jurisdiction and the validity
of the Act. For the purpose of presenting the constitutional questions, and to expedite the proceedings, counsel
for respondent announced at the beginning of the hearings "that he would not cross-examine any of the Board's
witnesses and would not offer any countervailing evi-

72

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

dence." The Board received evidence and made its findings. There were numerous objections by respondent
to the competency and relevancy of certain testimony.
The Board found: Respondent, a Virginia corporation,
has its plant at Richmond, where it is engaged in the
purchase of raw materials and the manufacture, sale and
distribution of men's clothing. The principal materials
are woolen and worsted goods. 99.57 per cent. of these
goods come from States other than Virginia, 75 per cent.
being purchased in New York and fabricated for the
most part in other States. Cotton linings come from several southern States. Particulars as to the sources of
other materials are set forth. Of the garments manufactured by respondent, 82.8 per cent. are purchased by
customers outside the State, mainly by department stores
and men's clothing stores in the larger cities throughout
the country. Respondent maintains a sales office and
showroom in New York City through which 15 or 20
per cent. of the total sales are made. Orders are sent to
the Richmond plant, the goods being sold f.o.b. Richmond. In 1932, the volume of respondent's business
amounted to $800,000 and 80,000 units, increasing to
$1,750,000 and 150,000 units in the first ten months
of 1935.
The Board made elaborate findings with respect to
the clothing manufacturing industry and its relation to
interstate commerce. Among these findings are the following: The men's clothing induitry is among the twenty
most important manufacturing industries in this country.
Fifty per cent. of the manufacturing establishments are
in the State of New York; most of the remainder are in
Pennsylvania, Maryland, New Jersey, Illinois, Massachusetts, California and Ohio. Since the men's wear fabrics are produced largely in the New England States, the
goods must be transported from the mills across state
lines to the fabricating establishments in the States above

LABOR BOARD v. CLOTHING CO.
58

Opinion of the Court.

mentioned. The manufactured clothing is sold throughout the nation, only about 48 per cent. of the total sales
being made in the seven States which produce about 90
per cent. of the total men's clothing. The findings describe the methods of sales, the New York market being
the largest in the country. The Board concluded: "The
men's clothing industry is thus an industry which is
nearly entirely dependent in its operations upon purchases and sales in interstate commerce and upon interstate transportation. There is a constant flow of raw
wool from the western States and foreign countries to
the mills of New England where it is transformed into
men's wear fabrics, thence to the sponging and shrinking plants of New York and Philadelphia, then, joined
by the other necessary raw materials, to the fabricating
factories of the Middle Atlantic States for manufacture
into clothing. . ., . The industry itself has no doubt
as to its status, for the Executive Director of the New
York Clothing Manufacturers Exchange, Inc., which represents about 250 manufacturers doing 70 per cent. of the
total business in the New York market, stated in his
affidavit that the industry is conducted as an interstate
business and is entirely dependent upon interstate
commerce."
The Board also made findings in relation to the labor
organization here involved. The Board found: "The
Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America is a labor
organization composed of over 125,000 men and women
employed in the men's and boys' clothing industry. ...
The period before the recognition by the employers of the
Amalgamated was marked by long and bitter strikes. In
1921 there had been a general strike in New York City
which had lasted for eight months and caused losses of
millions of dollars to employers and employees. A similar
general strike in New York in 1924 lasted for six weeks
and involved all of the 500 firms in that area and their

74

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

35,000 workers. The wage loss to the workers was nearly
$6,000,000, the financial loss to the manufacturers ran
into the millions. . . . This costly industrial strife resulted finally in recognition of the Amalgamated by the
employers. . . . The New York strike of 1924 was ended
by the establishment of a collective agreement between
the leading manufacturers and the Amalgamated which
was soon joined in by other manufacturers in that area.
Factories in Rochester, Baltimore, Boston, Cincinnati,
Cleveland, St. Louis and Philadelphia recognized the
union and entered into agreements with it. Today the
Amalgamated has collective agreements with clothing
manufacturers and contractors employing the greater
number of the clothing workers in the United States.
These collective agreements have brought peace to that
portion of the industry that has entered such agreements.
... Since the signing of the collective agreement for
the New York area, the New York Clothing Manufacturers Exchange, Inc. and the Amalgamated have handled jointly a total of 21,193 complaints and disputes. In
only 898 of these cases, or slightly over 4 per cent., was a
resort to arbitration required because of inability to agree.
Of these 898, 30 per cent. were settled by the impartial
chairman acting as a mediator; in the remainder he sat
as an arbitrator and rendered a decision. . . . The President of the New York Clothing Manufacturers Exchange,
Inc. . . .has stated that the 'organization of cullective
bargaining machinery, the establishment of an impartial
tribunal, and -the founding of unemployment insurance
are the outstanding achievements' in the industry and
that the Amalgamated Clothing Workers 'has been perhaps the largest single contributing factor to the lasting
peace and harmony that have characterized those clothing
markets where the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of
America was the other contracting party to the collective
agreement.' "

LABOR BOARD v. CLOTHING CO.
58

Opinion of the Court.

With respect to unfair labor practices, the Board found
that in the summer of 1935 employees of respondent had
formed a local union of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America and were soliciting membership therein.
Respondent's management "at once indicated hostility
to the union organization of its employees and declared
that it would not permit them to join the Amalgamated."
Statements of the president of the respondent showing his
antagonism to the union were quoted by the Board. At
one time he stated to a group of employees that he would
discharge every one that attended the union meeting.
Similar statements were made by respondent's secretary.
Respondent's management "has maintained surveillance
over union meetings and activities." The findings set
forth the circumstances of the discharge of employees.
The Board concluded that these discharges were because
of the membership of the employees in the labor organization and their activities in connection with it. The
Board also found that interference in the industry with
the activities of employees in joining and assisting labor
organizations and the refusal to accept the procedure of
collective bargaining had led and tends to lead to strikes
and other labor disputes that burden and obstruct
commerce.
The findings of the Board both as to the nature of respondent's business and the circumstances of the discharge of its employees are supported by the evidence.
For the reasons stated in our opinion in National Labor
Relations Board v. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp., ante,
p. 1, we hold that the objections raised by respondent to
the construction and validity of the National Labor Relations Act are without merit. The decrees of the Circuit
Court of Appeals are reversed and the causes are remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this
opinion.
Reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Dissenting Opinion.

301 U. S.

delivered the following
dissenting opinion in the cases preceding:
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND, MR. JUSTICE BUTLER and I are unable to agree with
the decisions just announced.
We conclude that these causes were- rightly decided by
the three Circuit Courts of Appeals and that their judgments should be affirmed. The opinions there given
without dissent are terse, well-considered and sound.
They disclose the meaning ascribed by experienced judges
to what this Court, has often declared, and are set out
below in full.
Considering the far-reaching import of these decisions,
the departure from what we understand has been consistently ruled here, and the extraordinary power confirmed to a Board of three,' the obligation to present our
views becomes plain.
The Court, as we think, departs from well-established
principles followed in Schechter Corp. v. United States,
295 U. S. 495 (May, 1935) and Carter v. Carter Coal Co.,
298 U. S. 238 (May, 1936). Upon the authority of those
decisions, the Circuit Courts of Appeals of the Fifth,
Sixth and Second Circuits in the causes now before us
have held the power of Congress under the commerce
clause does not extend to relations between employers
and their employees engaged in manufacture, and therefore the Act conferred upon the National Labor Relations
Board no authority in respect of matters covered by the
questioned orders. In Foster Bros. Mfg. Co. v. National
Labor Relations Board, 85 F. (2d) 984, the Circuit Court
of Appeals, Fourth Circuit, held the Act inapplicable to
manufacture and expressed the view that if so extended it
' National Labor Relations Act (Act of July 5, 1935, c. 372, 49 Stat.
449; U. S. C., Sup. I, Tit. 29, §§ 151 et seq.).

LABOR BOARD CASES.
58

Dissenting Opinion.

would be invalid. Six district courts, on the authority
of Schechter's and Carter's cases, have held that the
Board has no authority to regulate relations between
employers and employees engaged in local production.a
No decision or judicial opinion to the contrary has been
cited, and we find none. Every consideration brought
forward to uphold the Act before us was applicable to
support the Acts held unconstitutional in causes decided
within two years. And the lower courts rightly deemed
them controlling.
By its terms the Labor Act extends to employerslarge and small-unless excluded by definition,2, and declares that if one of these interferes with, restrains, or
coerces any employee regarding his labor affiliations, etc.,
this shall be regarded as unfair labor practice. And a
"labor organization" means any organization of any kind
or any agency or employee representation committee or
plan which exists for the purpose in whole or in part of
dealing with employers concerning grievances, labor disaStout v. Pratt, 12 F. Supp. 864. Bendix Products 'Corp. v.
Beman, 14 F. Supp. 58. Eagle-Picher Lead Co. v. Madden, 15 F.
Supp. 407. Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corp. v. Meyers, 15 F. Supp.
915. El Paso Electric Co. v. Elliott, 15 F. Supp. 81. Oberman &
Co. v. Pratt, 16 F. Supp. 887.
2 SEC. 2. (2)
The term "employer" includes any person acting in the
interest of an employer, directly or indir ctly, but shall not include
the United States, or any State or political subdivision thereof, or
any person subject to the Railway Labor Act, amended from time to
time, or any labor organization (other than when acting as an employer), or anyone acting in the capacity of officer or agent of such
labor organization.
SEC. 2. (3) The term "employee" shall include any employee, and
shall not be limited to the employees of a particular employer, unless
the Act explicitly states otherwise, and shall include any individual
whose work has ceased as a consequence of, or in connection with,
any current labor dispute or because of any unfair labor practice, and
who has not obtained any other regular and substantially equivalent

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Dissenting Opinion.

301 U. S.

putes, wages, rates of pay, hours of employment or con-

ditions of work.'
The three respondents happen to be manufacturing
concerns-one large, two relatively small. The Act is
now applied to each upon grounds common to all. Obviously what is determined as to these concerns may gravely
affect a multitude of employers who engage in a great
variety of private enterprises-mercantile, manufacturing, publishing, stock-raising, mining, etc. It puts into
the hands of a Board power of control over purely local
industry beyond anything heretofore deemed permissible.
employment, but shall not include any individual employed as an
agricultural laborer, or in the domestic service of any family or
person at his home, or any individual employed by his parent or

spouse.
SEC. 7. Employees shall have the right to self-organization, to
form, join or assist labor organizations, to bargain collectively through
representatives of their own choosing, and to engage in concerted
activities, for the purpose of collective bargaining or other mutual
aid or protection.
'SEC. 2. (5) The term "labor organization" means any organization of any kind, or any agency or employee representation committee or plan, in which employees participate and which exists for the
purpose, in whole or in part, of dealing with employers concerning
grievances, labor disputes, wages, rates of pay, hours of employment,
or conditions of work.
SEC. 3. (a) There is hereby created a board, to be known as the
"National Labor Relations Board" (hereinafter referred to as the
"Board"), which shall be composed of three members, who shall be
appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of
the Senate. One of the original members shall be appointed for a
term of one year, one for a term of three years, and one for a term
of five years, but their successors shall be appointed for terms of five
years each, except that any individual chosen to fill a vacancy shall
be appointed only for the unexpired term of the member whom he
shall succeed. The President shall designate one member to serve as
chairman of the Board. Any member of the Board may be removed
by the President, upon notice and hearing, for neglect of duty or
malfeasance in office, but for no other cause.

LABOR BOARD CASES.
58

Dissenting Opinion.

II.
[No. 419] Circuit Court of Appeals (Fifth Circuit)
Opinion June 15, 1936, 83 F. (2d) 998
Before Foster, Sibley, and Hutcheson, Circuit Judges
"Per Curiam. The National Labor Relations Board has
petitioned us to enforce an order made by it, which requires Jones & Laughlin Steel Corporation, organized
under the laws of Pennsylvania, to reinstate certain discharged employees in its steel plant in Aliquippa, Pa., and
to do other things in that connection.
"The petition must be denied, because, under the facts
found by the Board and shown by the evidence, the Board
has no jurisdiction over a labor dispute between employer
and employees touching the discharge of laborers in a steel
plant who were engaged only in manufacture. The Constitution does not vest in the Federal Government the
power to regulate the relation as such of employer and
employee in production or manufacture.
"'One who produces or manufactures a commodity, subsequently sold and shipped by him in interstate commerce,
whether such sale and shipment were originally intended
or not, has engaged in two distinct and separate activities. So far as he produces or manufactures a commodity,
his business is purely local. So far as he sells and ships,
or contracts to sell and ship, the commodity to customers
in another state, he engages in interstate commerce. In
respect of the former, he is subject only to regulation by
the state; in respect of the latter, to regulation only by
the federal government. Utah Power & L. Co. v. Pfost,
286 U. S. 165, 182. Production is not commerce but a
step in preparation for commerce. Chassaniol v. Greenwood, 291 U. S. 584-587.
"'We have seen that the word "commerce" is the equivalent of the phrase "intercourse for the purposes of trade."

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Dissenting Opinion.

301 U. S.

Plainly the incidents leading up to and culminating in the
mining of coal do not constitute such intercourse. The
employment of men, the fixing of their wages, hours of
labor and working conditions, the bargaining in respect
of these things-whether carried on separately or collectively-each and all constitute intercourse for the purposes of production, not -of trade. The latter is a thing
apart from the relation of employer and employee, which
in all producing occupations is purely local in character.
Extraction of coal from the mine is the aim and the completed result of local activities. Commerce in the coal
mined is not brought into being by force of these activities but by negotiations, agreements, and circumstances
entirely apart from production. Mining brings the subject matter of commerce into existence. Commerce disposes of it.' Carter v. Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S. 238,
decided May 18, 1936.
"That the employer has a very large business, the interruption of which by a strike of employees which might
happen, and that in consequence of such strike production
might be stopped and interstate commerce in the products affected, does not make the regulation of the relation
justified under the commerce power of Congress, because
the possible effect on interstate commerce is too remote
to warrant Federal invasion of the State's right to regulate the employer-employee relation. Nor is it important
that the employer imports part of his raw materials in
interstate commerce and sells and exports a large part of
his product in interstate commerce, which imports and
exports would possibly be stopped by a possible strike.
The employers' entire business thus connected together
does not, as respects Federal power, make a case different
from that in which importation of materials, manufacture of them, and sale and export of the product are conducted by three persons. The employer here by doing

LABOR BOARD CASES.
58

Dissenting Opinion.

all three things does not alter the respective constitutional
spheres of the Federal and State governments. The making and fabrication of steel by Jones & Laughlin Steel
Corporation is production regulable by the State of Pennsylvania, notwithstanding the corporation also engages
in interstate commerce regulable by Congress in bringing
in its raw materials and again in selling and delivering
its products. No specific present intent appears to impede or destroy interstate commerce by means of a strike
in a manufacturing plant, or other like direct obstruction
to or burden on interstate commerce. The order we are
asked to enforce is not shown to be one authorized to be
made under the authority of Congress. Carter v. Carter
Coal Co., supra.
"The petition is denied."
III.
[Nos. 420-421] Circuit Court of Appeals (Sixth Circuit)
Opinion June 30, 1936, 85 F. (2d) 391
Before Moorman, Hicks, and Simons, Circuit Judges.
"Per Curiam. The National Labor Relations Board
has filed a petition in this court to enforce an order issued by it in proceedings which it instituted against the
Fruehauf Trailer Company. The order directs the Trailer Company .to cease and desist from discharging or
threatening to discharge any of its employees because
of their activities in connection with the United Automobile Workers Federal Labor Union No. 19,375, to cease
discouraging its employees from becoming members of
that union, to offer to certain of its former employees
immediate and full reinstatement in their former positions without prejudice to their seniority rights, to make
such employees whole for any losses of pay that they
have suffered by reason of their discharge by paying
146212*-37---6

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Dissenting Opinion.

301 U. S.

them what they would have earned as wages from the
dates of their discharges, and to post notices throughout
its Detroit plant, in conspicuous places, stating that it
has ceased and desisted from discharging or threatening
to discharge its employees for joining the United Automobile Workers Federal Labor Union No. 19,375. The
Fruehauf Trailer Company has filed its petition seeking
a review of the order and praying that the court set it
aside. The record of the proceeding before the Labor
Board has been filed and the two petitions have been
heard together in this court.
"The Fruehauf Trailer Company is a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of
Michigan and is engaged in the manufacture, assembly,
and sale of automobile trailers at its plant in Detroit,
Mich. The material and parts used in the manufacture
and production of the trailers are shipped to the plant.
After the trailers are manufactured, many of them are
shipped to other states for sale and use. The order in
question undertakes-to regulate and control the Trailer
Company's relations and dealings with its employees engaged in the production a'd manufacture of trailers at the
company's plant in Detroit and does not directly- affect
any of the activities of the Trailer Company in the purchasing and transporting to its plant of materials and
parts for the manufacture and production of trailers or
in the shipping or selling of such trailers after they are
manufactured. It was issued under the authority of the
Act of Congress of July 5, 1935, known as the National
Labor Relations Act. (29 U. S. C. A., § 151 et seq.)
The authority for the Act is claimed under the commerce
clause of the Constitution. Since the order is directed
to the control and regulation of the relations between
the Trailer Company and its employees in respect to
their activities in the manufacture and production of

LABOR BOARD CASES.
58

Dissenting Opinion.

trailers and does not directly affect any phase of any
interstate commerce in which the Trailer Company may
be engaged, and since, under the ruling of Carter v. Carter
Coal Company, 298 U. S. 238, the Congress has no authority or power to regulate or control such relations
between the Trailer Company and its employees, the
National Labor Relations Board was without authority
to issue the order. See National Labor Relations Board
v. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corporation, 83 F. (2d) 998
(C. C. A. 5), decided June 15, 1936.
"The petition of the Board is accordingly dismissed
and the order is set aside."
IV.
[Nos. 422-423] Circuit Court of Appeals (Second Circuit)
Opinion July 13, 1936, 85 F. (2d) 1
Before Manton, Swan, and A. N. Hand, Circuit Judges.
"Per Curiam. The respondent, a Virginia corporation,
is a manufacturer of men's clothing with its principal
office and its factory in Richmond, Va. Practically all
the raw materials used are brought from other states
down into Virginia where respondent manufactures them
into men's clothing. About 83% of the manufactured
products are sold f.o.b. Richmond, to customers located
in states other than Virginia.
"Two sets of charges were filed with petitioner's local
Regional Director by the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America, a labor union of workers in the men's
clothing industry, in which it was alleged that the respondent violated the National Labor Relations Act (29
U. S. C. A., § 151 et seq.) by discharging from its employ
and discriminating against, 29 out of 800 of its employees,
because they had engaged in union activities. The Board
filed complaint under § 10 (b) of the Act (29 U. S. C. A.,

84

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Dissenting Opinion.

301 U. S.

§ 160 ' )) and after a hearing respondent was found to
have
ated the Act and was ordered to cease and desist
from tne unfair labor practices.
"Petitioner's theory is that the respondent is engaged
in interstate commerce because of the shipment of raw
materials to it from other states and the shipment of its
finished products to other state3, and, in addition, that the
flow of commerce doctrine, as exemplified in Swift & Co.
v. United States, 196 U. S. 375, brings this manufacturer
within the federal power to regulate commerce. Respondent contends that the National Labor Relations Act
as applied to it, is unconstitutional and therefore invalid
and that the attempt to enforce its provisions against it
is illegal.
"It is shown that the alleged unfair labor practices complained of occurred in the manufacture of clothing in
Richmond, Va.' None' of the workers involved had to do
with the transpoftation, of the clothing after its manufacture. They were engaged in various operations in the
Richmond factory.
"The relations between the employer and its employees
n this manufacturing industry were merely incidents of
production. In its manufacturing, respondent was in no
way engaged in interstate commerce, nor did its labor
practices so directly affect interstate commerce as to come
within the federal commerce power. Carter v. Carter
Coal Co., 298 U. S. 238; Schechter Poultry Corp. v. United
States, 295 U. S. 495. No authority warrants the conclusion that the powers of the Federal Government permit
the regulation of the dealings between employers or employees when engaged in the purely local business of
manufacture.
"Therefore the orders to cease and desist may not be
enforced.
"Petitions denied."

LABOR BOARD CASES.
58

Dissenting Opinion.

V.

In each cause the Labor Board formulated and then
sustained a charge of unfair labor practices towards persons employed only in production. It ordered restoration
of discharged employees to former positions with payment for losses sustained. These orders were declared
invalid below upon the ground that respondents while
carrying on production operations were not thereby engaging in interstate commerce; that labor practices in the
course of such operations did not directly affect interstate
commerce; consequently respondents' actions did not
come within Congressional power.
Respondent in No. 419 is a large, integrated manufacturer of iron and steel products-the fourth largest in the
United States. It has two production plants in Pennsylvania where raw materials brought from points outside
the state are converted into finished products, which are
thereafter distributed in interstate commerce throughout
many states. The Corporation has assets amounting to
$180,000,000, gross income $47,000,000, and employs
22,000 people-10,000 in the Aliquippa plant where the
complaining employees worked. So far as they relate to
essential principles presently important, the activities of
this Corporation, while large, do not differ materially
from those of the other respondents and very many small
producers and distributors. It has attained great size;
occupies an important place in business; owns and operates mines of ore, coal, and lime-stone outside Pennsylvania, the output of which, with other raw material, moves
to the production plants. At the plants this movement
ends. Having come to rest this miterial remains in warehouses, storage yards, etc., often for months, until the
process of manufacture begins. After this has been completed, the finished products go into interstate commerce.
The discharged employees labored only in the manufac-

86

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Dissenting Opinion.

301 U. S.

turing department. They took no part in the transportation to or away from the plant; nor did they participate
in any activity which preceded pr followed manufacture.
Our concern is with those activities which are common
to the three enterprises. Such circumstances as are
merely fortuitous-size, character of products, etc.-may
be put on one side. The wide sweep of the statute will
more readily appear if consideration be given to the
Board's proceedings against the smallest and relatively
least important---the Clothing Company. If the Act applies to the relations of that Company to employees in
production, of course it applies to the larger respondents
with like business elements although the affairs of the
latter may present other characteristics. Though differing in some respects, all respondents procure raw materials outside the state where they manufacture, fabricate
within and then ship beyond the stafe.
In Nos. 420-21 the respondent, Michigan corporation,
manufactures commercial trailers for automobiles from
raw materials brought from outside that state, and thereafter sells these in many states. It has a single manufacturing plant at Detroit and annual receipts around
$3,000,000; 900 people are employed.
In Nos. 422-23 the respondent is a Virginia corporation
engaged in manufacturing and distributing men's clothing. It has a single plant and chief office at Richmond,
annual business amounting perhaps to $2,000,000, employs 800, brings in almost all raw material from other
states and ships the output in interstate commerce.
There are some 3,300 similar plants for manufacturing
clothing in the United States, which together employ
150,000 persons and annually put out products worth
$800,000,000.

LABOR BOARD CASES.
58

Dissenting Opinion.

VI.
The Clothing Company is a typical small manufacturing concern which produces less than one-half of one per
cent of the men's clothing produced in the United States
and employs 800 of the 150,000 workmen engaged
therein. If closed today, the ultimate effect on commerce
in clothing obviously would be negligible. It stands
alone, is not seeking to acquire a monopoly or to restrain
trade. There is no evidence of a strike by its employees
at any time or that one is now threatened, and nothing to
indicate the probable result if one should occur.
Some account of the Labor Board's proceedings against
this Company will indicate the ambit of the Act as
presently construed.
September 28, 1935, the Amalgamated Clothing
Workers of America, purporting to act under § 10 (b)
of the National Relations Act,3 filed with the Board a
3

SEc. 10. (b) Whenever it is charged that any person has engaged
in or is engaging in any such unfair labor practice, the Board, or any
agent or agency designated by the Board for such purposes, shall

have power to issue and cause to be served upon such person a complaint stating the charges in that respect, and containing a notice of
hearing before the Board or a member thereof, or before a designated
agent or agency, at a place therein fixed, not less than five days after
the serving of said complaint. Any such complaint may be amended
by the member, agent, or agency conducting the hearing or the Board
in its discretion at any time prior to the issuance of an order based
thereon. The person so complained of shall have the right to file an
answer to the original or amended complaint and to appear in person
or otherwise and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the
complaint. In the discretion of the member, agent, or agency conducting the hearing or the Board, any other person may be allowed
to intervene in the said proceeding and to present testimony. In any
such proceeding the rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or
equity shall not be controlling.

88

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Dissenting Opinion.

301 U.S.

"Charge" stating that the Clothing Company had engaged in unfair labor practices withiii the meaning of
the Act-§ 8 (1) (3)-in that it had, on stated days in
August and September, 1935, unjustifiably discharged,
demoted or discriminated against some twenty named
members of that union and, in other ways, had restrained,
interfered with and coerced employees in the exercise of
their right of i,'ee choice of representatives for collective
bargaining. And further "that said labor practices are
unfair labor practices affecting commerce within the
meaning of said Act."
This "Charge" contained no description of the Company's business, no word concerning any strike against it
past, present or threatened. The number of persons employed or how many of these had joined the union is not
disclosed.
Thereupon the Board issued a "Complaint" which
recited the particulars of the "Charge," alleged incorporation of the Company in Virginia, and ownership of a
plant at Richmond where it is continuously engaged in
the "production, sale and distribution of men's clothing";
that material is brought from other states and manufactured into clothing, which is sold and shipped to many
states, etc.,-"all of aforesaid constituting a. continuous
flow of commerce among the several states." Also that
while operating the Richmond plant the Clothing Company discharged, demoted, laid off or discriminated
against some twenty persons "employed in production at
.
for the reason that all of the said
the said plant .
employees, and each of them, joined and assisted a labor
organization known as the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America, and engaged in concerted activities with
other employees for the purpose of collective bargaining
and other mutual aid and protection," etc. Further that
the Company circulated among its employees and under-

LABOR BOARD CASES.
58

Dissenting Opinion.

took to coerce them to sign a writing expressing satisfaction with conditions; induced some members of the union
to withdraw; did other similar things, etc.-all of which
amounted to unfair labor practices affecting commerce
within the meaning of § 8 (1) (3) (4)4 and § 2 (6) (7)' of
the Labor Act. "The aforesaid unfair labor practices occur in commerce among the several states, and on the
basis of experience in the aforesaid plant and others in
the same and other industries, burden and obstruct such
commerce and the free flow thereof and have led and tend
to lead to labor disputes burdening and obstructing such
commerce and the free flow thereof."
The complaint says nothing concerning any strike
against the Clothing Company past, present or threatened; there is no allegation concerning the number of
persons employed, how many joined the union, or the
value of the output.
'SEC. 8. It shall be an unfair labor practice for an employer(1) To interfere with, restrain, or coerce employees in the exercise
of the rights guaranteed in section 7.
(2) To dominate or interfere with the formation or administration
of any labor organization or contribute financial or other support to
it: Provided, That subject to rules and regulations made awd published by the Board pursuant to section 6 (a), an employer shall not
be prohibited from permitting employees to confer with him during
working hours without loss of time or pay.
(3) By discrimination in regard to hire. or tenure of employment
or any term or condition of employment to encourage or discourage
membership in any labor organization: Provided, That nothing in
this Act, or in the National Industrial Recovery Act (U. S. C., Supp.
VII, title 15, sees. 701-712), as amended from time to time, or in any
code or agreement approved or prescribed thereunder, or in any
other statute of the United States, shall preclude an employer from
making an agreement with a labor organization (not established,
maintained, or assisted by any action defined in this Act as an unfair
labor practice) to require as a condition of employment membership
therein if such labor organization is the representative of the em-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Dissenting Opinion.

301 U. S.

The respondent filed a special appearance objecting to
the Board's jurisdiction, which was overruled; also an
answer admitting the discharge of certain employees, but
otherwise it generally denied the allegations of the
"Complaint."
Thereupon the Board demanded access to the Company's private records of accounts, disclosure of the
amount of capital invested by its private owners, the
names of all of its employees, its payrolls, the amounts
and character of all purchases and from whom made, the
amounts of sales and to whom made, including the number
and kind of units, the number of employees in the plant
ployeeq as provided in section 9 (a), in the appropriate collective
bargaining unit covered by such agreement when made.
(4) ,JTo
discharge or otherwise discriminate against an employee
because he has filed charges or given testimony under this Act.
(5) Lo refuse to bargain collectively with the representatives of his
employees, subject to the provisions of Section 9 (a).
SEC. 9. (a) Representatives designated or selected for the purposes
of colldctive bargaining by the majority of the employees in a unit
appropriate for such purposes, shall be the exclusive representatives
of all thp employees in such unit for the purposes of collective bargaining dn respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment, or
other cortditions of employment: Provided, That any individual employee or a group of employees shall have the right at any time to
present .rievances to their employer.
5
SEc. 2 (6) The term "commerce" means trade, traffic, commerce,
transportation, or communication among the several States, or between the District of Columbia or any Territory of the United States
and any StAte or other Territory, or between any foreign country and
any State, Territory, or the District of Columbia, or within the District of Columbia or any Territory, or between points in the same
State but through any other State or any Territory or the District of
Columbia or any foreign country.
(7) The term "affecting commerce" means in commerce, or burdehing or obstructing commerce or the free flow of commerce, or
having led or tending to lead to a labor dispute burdening or
obstructing commerce or the free flow of commerce.

LABOR BOARD CASES.
58

Dissenting Opinion.

during eight years, the names and addresses of the directors and officers of the Company, the names and addresses
of its salesmen, the stock ownership of the Company, the
affiliation, if any, with other companies, and the former
occupations and businesses of its stockholders.
During hearings held at Richmond and Washington,
unfettered by rules of evidence, it received a mass of
testimony---lrgely irrelevant. Much related to the character of respondent's business, general methods used in
the men's clothing industry, the numbers employed and
the general effect of strikes therein. The circumstances
attending the discharge or demotion of the specified employees were brought out.
Following this the Board foundThe men's clothing industry of the United States ranks
sixteenth in the number of wage earners employed, with
more than 3,000 firms and 150,000 workers engaged. The
steps in the typical process of manufacture are described.
Raw material is brought in from many states, and after
fabrication the garments are sold and delivered through
canvassers and retailers. "The men's clothing industry
is thus an industry which is nearly entirely dependent in
its operations upon purchases and sales in interstate commerce and upon interstate transportation."
The Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America is a
labor organization composed of over 125,000 men and
women employed in making clothing. Members are organized in local unions. Before recognition of this union
by employers long and bitter strikes occurred, some of
which are described. The union has striven consistently
to improve the general economic and social conditions of
members. Benefits that flow from recognizing and cooperating with it are realized by manufacturers.
Description is given of the Clothing Company's operations, the sources of its raw material (nearly all outside

92

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Dissenting Opinion.

301 U. S.

Virginia), and)the method used to dispose of its output.
Eighty-two per cent is sold to customers beyond Virginia.
It is.among the fifty largest firms in the industry, and
among the ten of that group paying the lowest average
wage.
In the summer of 1935 the employees at the Richmond
plant formed a local of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers and solicited memberships. The management at once
indicated opposition and declared it would not permit
employees to join. Hostile acts and the circumstances of
the discharge or demotion of complaining employees are
described. It is said all were discharged or demoted because of union membership. And further that "Interference by employers in the men's clothing industry with
the activities of employees in joining and assisting labor
organizations and their refusal to accept the procedure
of collective bargaining has led and tends to lead to strikes
and other labor disputes that burden and obstruct commerce and the free flow thereof. In those cases where the
employees have been permitted to organize freely and the
employers have been willing to bargain collectively, strikes
and industrial unrest have gradually disappeared, as shown
in Finding 19. But where the employer has taken the
contrary position, strikes have ensued that have resulted
in substantial or total cessation of production in the factories involved and obstruction to and burden upon the
flow of raw materials and finished garments in interstate
commerce."
The number of employees who joined the union does
not appear; the general attitude of employees towards the
union or the Company is not disclosed; the terms of employment are not stated-whether at will, by the day or
by the month. What the local Chapter was especially
seeking at the time we do not know.
It does not appear that, either prior or subsequent to
the "Complaint," there has been any strike, disorder or

LABOR BOARD CASES.
58

Dissenting Opinion.

industrial strife at respondent's factory, or any interference with or stoppage of production or shipment of its
merchandise. Nor that alleged unfair labor practices at
its plant had materially affected manufacture, sale or
distribution; or materially affected, burdened or obstructed the flow of products; or affected, burdened or
obstructed the flow of interstate commerce, or tended
to do so.
The Board concluded that the Clothing Company had
discriminated in respect to tenure and employment and
thereby had discouraged membership in the uhion; that
it had interfered with, restrained and coerced its employees in violation of rights guaranteed by § 7 of the
National Labor Relations Act; that these acts occurred
in the course and conduct of commerce among the states,
immediately affect employees engaged in the course and
conduct of interstate commerce, and tend to lead to labor
disputes burdening and obstructing such commerce and
the free flow thereof.
An order followed, March 28, 1936, which commanded
immediate reinstatement of eight discharged employees
and payment of their losses; also that the Company
should cease and desist from discharging or discriminating against employees because of connections with the
union, should post notices, etc. On the same day the
Board filed a petition asking enforcement of the order in
the United States Circuit Court of Appeals (Second Circuit) at New York, which was denied July 13, 1936.
VII.
The precise question for us to determine is whether
in the circumstances disclosed Congress has power to
authorize what the Labor Board commanded the respondents to do. Stated otherwise, in the circumstances here
existing could Congress by statute direct what the Board
has ordered? General disquisitions concerning the en-

94'

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Dissenting Opinion.

301 U. S.

actment are of minor, if any, importance. Circumstances not treated as essential to the exercise of power
by the Board may, of course, be disregarded. The record
in Nos. 422- 2 3-a typical case-plainly presents these
essentials and we may properly base further discussion
upon the circumstances there disclosed.
A relatively small concern caused raw material to be
shipped to its plant at Richmond, Virginia, converted
this into clothing, and thereafter shipped the product to
points outside the state. A labor union sought members
among the employees at the plant and obtained some.
The Company's management opposed this effort, and in
order to discourage it discharged eight who had become
members. The business of the Company is so small that
to close its factory would have no direct or material effect
upon the volume of interstate commerce in clothing. The
number of operatives who joined the union is not disclosed; the wishes of other employees are not shown;
probability of a strike is not found.
The argument, in support of the Board affirms: "Thus
the validity of any specific application of the preventive
measures of this Act depends upon whether industrial
strife resulting from the practices in the particular enterprise under consideration would be of the character which
Federal power could control if it occurred. If strife in
that enterprise could be controlled, certainly it could be
prevented."
Manifestly that view of Congressional power would extend it into almost every field of human industry. With
striking lucidity, fifty years ago, Kidd v. Pearson, 128
U. S. 1, 21, declared: "If it be held that the term [commerce with foreign nations and among the several states]
includes the regulation of all such manufactures as are
intended to be the subject of commercial transactions in

LABOR BOARD CASES.
58

Dissenting Opinion.

the future, it is impossible to deny that it would also
include all productive industries that contemplate the
same thing. The result would be that Congress would
be invested, to the exclusion of the States, with the power
to regulate, not only manufactures, but also agriculture,
horticulture, stock raising, domestic fisheries, mining-in
short, every branch of human industry." This doctrine
found full approval in United States v. E. C. Knight Co.,
156 U. S. 1, 12, 13; Schechter Poultry Corp. v. United
States, supra, and Carter v. Carter Coal Co., supra, where
the authorities are collected and principles applicable here
are discussed.
In Knight's case Chief Justice Fuller, speaking for the
Court, said: "Doubtless the power to control the manufacture of a given thing involves in a certain sense the
control of its disposition, but, this is a secondary and not
the primary sense; and although the exercise of that
power may result in bringing the operation of commerce
into play, it does not control it, and affects it only incidentally and indirectly. Commerce succeeds to manufacture, and is not a part of it . . . It is vital that
the independence of the commercial power and of the
police power, and the delimitation between them, however sometimes perplexing, should always be recognized
and observed, for while the one furnishes the strongest
bond of union, the other is essential to the preservation
of the autonomy of the States as required by our dual
form of government; and acknowledged evils, however
grave and urgent they may appear to be, had better be
borne, than the risk be run, in the effort to suppress them,
of more serious consequences by resort to expedients of
even doubtful constitutionality."
In Schechter's case we said: "In determining how far
the federal government may go in controlling intrastate
transactions upon the ground that they 'affect' interstate

96

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Dissenting Opinion.

301 U. S.

commerce, there is a necessary and well-established distinction between direct and indirect effects. The precise
line can be drawn only as individual cases arise, but the
distinction is clear in principle . . . But where the
effect of intrastate transactions upon interstate commerce
is merely indirect, such transactions remain within the
domain of state power. If the commerce clause were construed to reach all enterprises and transactions which
could be said to have an indirect effect upon interstate
commerce, the federal authority would embrace practically all the activities of the people and the authority of
the State over its domestic concerns would exist only by
sufferance of the federal government. Indeed, on such a
theory, even the development of the State's commercial
facilities would be subject to federal control."
Carter's case declared-"Whether the effect of a given
activity or condition is direct or indirect is not always
easy to determine. The word 'direct' implies that the
activity or condition invoked or blamed shall operate
proximately-not mediately, remotely, or collaterallyto produce the effect. It connotes the absence of an efficient intervening agency or condition. And the extent
of the effect bears no logical relation to its character.
The distinction between a direct and an indirect effect
turns, not upon the magnitude of either the cause or the
effect, but entirely upon the manner in which the effect
has been brought about. If the production by one man
of a single ton of coal intended for interstate sale and
shipment, and actually so sold and shipped, affects interstate commerce indirectly, the effect does not become
direct by multiplying the tonnage, or increasing the number of men employed, or adding to the expense or complexities of the business, or by all combined."
Any effect on interstate commerce by the discharge of
employees shown here, would be indirect and remote in

LABOR BOARD CASES.
Dissenting Opinion.

58

the highest degree, as consideration of the facts will show.
In No. 419 ten men out of ten thousand were discharged;
in the other cases only a few. The immediate effect in
the factory may be to create discontent among all those
employed and a strike may follow, which, in turn, may
result in reducing production, which ultimately may reduce the volume of goods moving in interstate commerce.
By this chain of indirect and progressively remote events
we finally reach the evil with which it is said the legislation under consideration undertakes to deal. A more
remote and indirect interference with interstate commerce
or a more definite invasion of the powers reserved to the
states is difficult, if not impossible, to imagine.
The Constitution still recognizes the existence of states
with indestructible powers; the Tenth Amendment was
supposed to put them beyond controversy.
We are told that Congress may protect .the "stream of
commerce" and that one who buys raw material without
the state, manufactures it therein, and ships the output
to another state is in that stream. Therefore it is said
he may be prevented from doing anything which may
interfere with its flow.
This, too, goes beyond the constitutional limitations
heretofore enforced. If a man raises cattle and regularly
delivers them to a carrier for interstate shipment, may
Congress prescribe the conditions under which he may
employ or discharge helpers on the ranch? The products
of a mine pass daily into interstate commerce; many
things are brought to it from other states. Are the
owners and the miners within the power of Congress in
respect of the miners' tenure and discharge? May a mill
owner be prohibited from closing his factory or discontinuing his business because so to do would stop the flow
of products to and from his plant in interstate commerce?
146212°-37---7

98

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Dissenting Opinion.

301 U.S.

May employees in a factory be restrained from quitting
work in a body because this will close the factory and
thereby stop the flow of commerce? May arson of a
factory be made a Federal offense whenever this would
interefere with such flow? If the business cannot continue with the existing wage scale, may Congress command a reduction? If the ruling of the Court just announced is adhered to these questions suggest some of the
problems certain to arise.
And if this theory of a continuous "stream of commerce" as now defined is correct, will it become the duty
of the Federal Government hereafter to suppress every
strike which by possibility may cause a blockade in that
stream? In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564. Moreover, since
Congress has intervened, are labor relations between most
manufacturers and their employees removed from all
control by the state? Oregon-Washington R. & N. Co.
v. Washington, 270 U. S. 87 (1926).
To this argument Arkadelphia Milling Co. v. St. Louis
Southwestern R. Co., 249 U. S. 134, 150, affords an adequate reply. No such continuous stream is shown by
these records as that which counsel assume.
There is no ground on which reasonably to hold that
refusal by a manufacturer, whose raw materials come
from states other than that of his factory and whose
products are regularly carried to other states, to bargain
collectively with employees in his manufacturing plant,
directly affects interstate commerce. In such business,
there is not one but two distinct movements or streams
in interstate transportation. The first brings in raw
material and there ends. Then follows manufacture, a
separate and local activity. Upon completion of this,
and not before, the second distinct movement or stream
in interstate commerce begins and the products go to other
states. Such is the common course for small as well as

LABOR BOARD CASES.
58

Dissenting Opinion.

large industries. It is unreasonable and unprecedented
to say the commerce clause confers upon Congress power
to govern relations between employers and employees in
these local activities. Stout v. Pratt, 12 F. Supp. 864.
In Schechter's case we condemned as unauthorized by
the commerce clause assertion of federal power in respect
of commodities which had come to rest after interstate
transportation. And, in Carter's case, we held Congress
lacked power to regulate labor relations in respect of
commodities before interstate commerce has begun.
It is gravely stated that experience teaches that if an
employer discourages membership in "any organization
of any kind" "in which employees participate, and which
exists for the purpose in whole or in part of dealing with
employers concerning grievances, labor disputes, wages,
rates of pay, hours of employment or conditions of work,"
discontent may follow and this in turn may lead to a
strike, and as the outcome of the strike there may be a
block in the stream of interstate commerce. Therefore
Congress may inhibit the discharge! Whatever effect
any cause of discontent may ultimately have upon commerce is far too indirect to justify Congressional regulation. Almost anything-marriage, birth, death-may in
some fashion affect commerce.
VIII.
That Congress has power by appropriate means, not
prohibited by the Constitution, to prevent direct and material interference with the conduct of interstate commerce is settled doctrine. But the interference struck at
must be direct and material, not some mere possibility
contingent on wholly uncertain events; and there must
be no impairment of rights guaranteed. A state by taxation on property may indirectly but seriously affect the
cost of transportation; it may not lay a direct tax upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Dissenting Opinion.

301 U. S.

the receipts from interstate transportation. The first is
an indirect effect, the other direct.
This power to protect interstate commerce was invoked
in Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1, and
United States v. American Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106. In
each of those cases a combination sought to monopolize
and restrain interstate commerce through purchase and
consequent control of many large competing concerns engaged both in manufacture and interstate commerce. The
combination was sufficiently powerful and action by it
so persistent that success became a dangerous probability.
Here there is no such situation, and the cases are inapplicable in the circumstances. There is no conspiracy to
interfere with commerce unless it can be said to exist
among the employees who became members of the union.
There is a single plant operated by its own management
whose only offense, as alleged, was the discharge of a few
employees in the production department because they belonged to a union, coming withini the broad definition of
"labor organization" prescribed by § 2 (5) of the Act.
That definition includes any organization in which employees participate and which exists for the purpose in
whole or in part of dealing with employers concerning
grievances, wages, &c.
Section 13 of the Labor Act provides-"Nothing in this
Act shall be construed so as to interfere with or impede or
diminish in any way the right to strike." And yet it is
ruled that to discharge an employee in a factory because
he is a member of a labor organization (any kind) rmnay
create discontent which may lead to a strike and this may
cause a block in the "stream of commerce"; consequently
the discharge may be inhibited. Thus the Act exempts
from its ambit the very evil which counsel insist may
result from discontent caused by a discharge of an association member, but permits coercion of a non-member
to join one.

LABOR BOARD CASES.
58

Dissenting Opinion.

The things inhibited by the Labor Act relate to the
management of a manufacturing plant-something distinct from commerce and subject to the authority of the
state. And this may not be abridged because of some
vague possibility of distant interference with commerce.
Ix.
Texas & New OrleansR. Co. v. Brotherhood of Railway
& Steamship Clerks, 281 U. S. 548, is not controlling.
There the Court, while considering an act definitely limited to common carriers engaged in interstate transportation over whose affairs Congress admittedly has wide
power, declared: "The petitioners invoke the principle
declared in Adair v. United States, 208 U. S. 161, and
Coppage v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 1, but these decisions are
inapplicable. The Railway Labor Act of 1926 does not
interfere with the normal exercise of the right of the carrier to select its employees or to discharge them. The
statute is not aimed at this right of the employers but at
the interference with the right of employees to have representatives of their own choosing. As the carriers subject to the Act have no constitutional right to interfere
with the freedom of the employees in making their
selections, they cannot complain of the statute on constitutional grounds."
Adair's case, supra, presented the qu.estion-"May Congress make it a criminal offense against the United
States--as by the tenth section of the act of 1898 it does-for an agent or officer of an interstate carrier, having full
authority in the premises from the carrier, to discharge an
employee from service simply because of his membership
in a labor organization?" The answer was no. "While,
as already suggested, the rights of liberty and property
guaranteed by the Constitution against deprivation without due process of law, are subject to such reasonable restraints as the common good or the general welfare may

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Dissenting Opinion.

301 U. S.

require, it is not within the functions of government-at
least in the absence of contract between the parties-to
compel any person in the course of his business and against
his will to accept or retain the personal services of another, or to compel any person, against his will, to perform
personal services for another. The right of a person to
sell his labor upon such terms as he deems proper is, in its
essence, the same as the right of the purchaser of labor
to prescribe the conditions upon which he will accept such
labor from the person offering to sell it. So the right of
the employee to quit the service of the employer, for
whatever reason, is the same as the right of the employer,
for whatever reason, to dispense with the services of such
employee. It was the legal right of the defendant
Adair-however unwise such a course might have beento discharge Coppage because of his being a member of
a labor organization, as it was the legal right of Coppage,
if he saw fit to do so-however unwise such a course on
his part might have been-to quit the service in which he
was engaged, because the defendant employed some persons who were not members of a labor organization. In
all such particulars the employer and the employee have
equality of right, and any legislation that disturbs that
equality is an arbitrary interference with the liberty of
contract which no government can legally justify in a
free land." "The provision of the statute under which
the defendant was convicted must be held to be repugnant
to the Fifth Amendment and as not embraced by nor
within the power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce, but under the guise of regulating interstate commerce and as applied to this case it arbitrarily sanctions
an illegal invasion of the personal liberty a; well as the
right of property of the defendant Adair."
Coppage v. Kansas, following the Adair case, held that
a state statute, declaring it a misdemeanor to require an

ASSOCIATED PRESS v. LABOR BOARD.
58

103

Syllabus.

employee to agree not to become a member of a labor
organization during the time of his employment, was
repugnant to the due process clause of the Fourteenth

Amendment.
The right to contract is fundamental and includes the
privilege of selecting those with whom one is wiling to
assume contractual relations. This right is unduly
abridged by the Act now upheld. A private owner is deprived of power to manage his own property by freely
selecting those to whom his manufacturing operations are
to be entrusted. We think this cannot lawfully be done
in circumstances like those here disclosed.
It seems clear to us that Congress has transcended the
powers granted.
ASSOCIATED PRESS v. NATIONAL LABOR
RELATIONS BOARD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 365. Argued February 9, 10, 1937.-Decided April 12, 1937.
1. Interstate communication of a business nature, whatever the means
employed, is interstate commerce subject to regulation by Congress. P. 128.
2. The Associated Press, a non-profit-making corporation whose members are the owners of newspapers published for profit throughout
the country, is engaged as their agency in exchanging news between
those publications, using the telegraph and telephone and other
means of communication, and in supplying them in like manner
with domestic and foreign news collected by itself. Held engaged
in interstate commerce within the meaning of the National Labor
Relations Act and Constitution, Art. I, § 8. P. 125.
3. This conclusion is unaffected by the facts that the Associated
Press does not itself sell news or operate for profit and that technically it retains title to the news during interstate transmission.
P. 128.

