OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

301 U. S.

RAY v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 604.

Argued March 30, 1937.-Decided April 26, 1937.

1. In a criminal case, when the time for filing a bill of exceptions is
extended by the judge to a date which is a Sunday, that day is to
be excluded and the bill may be filed on the day following. Criminal Appeals Rule XIII. P. 161.
Rule XIII provides: "For the purpose of computing time as
specified in the foregoing rules, Sundays and legal holidays
(whether under Federal law or under the law of the State where
the case was brought) shall be excluded."
2. The limitation imposed upon the trial judge by Criminal Appeals Rule IX with respect to extension of the time for filing a
bill of exceptions, does not apply to the Circuit Court of Appeals or to the trial judge acting under direction of that Court.
P. 161.
3. The fundamental policy of the Criminal Appeals Rules is that as
speedily as possible, upon the taking of the appeal, the Circuit
Court of Appeals shall be invested with jurisdiction to see that
the appeal is properly expedited and to supervise and control all
proceedings on the appeal "including the proceedings relating to
the preparation of the record on appeal." P. 163.
4. The duty of the Clerk of the trial court, under Rule IV, upon
the filing of a notice of appeal, immediately to forward the duplicate notice to the clerk of the appellate court, together with a
statement from the docket entries in the case substantially as
provided in the form annexed to the Rules, is a ministerial duty.
P. 163.
5. Under Rule IV, the Circuit Court of Appeals is empowered to
vacate or modify any order of the trial court or judge in relation
to the prosecution of the appeal, and this embraces the proceedings relating to the preparation of the record on appeal, including an order of the trial judge fixing the time for filing the bill of
exceptions. P. 163.
6. The Circuit Court of Appeals has authority to return a bill of
exceptions to the trial judge for appropriate corrections, including the setting forth of the evidence in condensed and narrative
form. Rule IX. P. 164.

RAY v. UNITED STATES.
158

Opinion of the Court.

7. Supervision and control by the Circuit Court of Appeals under
the Criminal Appeals Rules calls for the exercise of a sound judicial discretion, which will not be reviewed unless abused. A refusal to extend the time for filing a bill of exceptions beyond that
fixed by the trial judge,-held, in the circumstances of this case,
not an abuse of discretion. P. 166.
86 F. (2d) 942, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 300 U. S. 647, to review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals overruling a motion to amend
the record and dismissing the appeal in a criminal case.
Mr. Reynolds Robertson, with whom Mr. William D.
Whitney was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Gordon Dean, with whom Solicitor General Reed,
Assistant Attorney General McMahon, and Mr. William
W. Barron were on the brief, for the United States.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Certiorari was granted to determine important questions which have arisen in the. administration of the
Criminal Appeals Rules promulgated May 7, 1934. 292
U. S. pp. 660 et seq.
Petitioner was convicted of violation of the mail fraud
and conspiracy statutes. His timely appeal was taken
on June 30, 1936. Within thirty days thereafter the
trial judge extended the time to file a bill of exceptions
to and including November 1, 1936, which was a Sunday.
The trial had been long and the testimony was voluminous. On October 20, 1936, after unsuccessful efforts
to obtain an agreement as to the condensation of the
evidence, petitioner applied to the trial judge for an extension of time to settle and file the bill of exceptions.
As it was found that the trial judge was without authority
to grant that extension, petitioner sought an extension

160

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

from the Circuit Court of Appeals, but his motion was
denied on October 27th. He then asked the trial judge
to settle the stenographer's minutes as the bill of exceptions. That motion was first denied on October 29th,
but on the following day the trial judge expressed his
willingness to receive a similar application if the colloquy
of counsel was stricken from the transcript, that application to be made on Monday, November 2d. On that
day the bill of exceptions, so prepared, was settled and
filed. On November 16, 1936, the Government moved
to docket and dismiss the appeal upon the ground that
petitioner had failed to comply with Rules VIII and IX
of the Criminal Appeals Rules. The motion was granted.
Petitioner asked for a rehearing and was heard. Insisting that it was impossible within the allotted time to
set forth the evidence in condensed and narrativ6 form,
petitioner requested the Circuit Court of Appeals to exercise its discretionary power under Rule IX to the end
that the defect in the bill of exceptions might be cured.
That request was made simultaneously with the motion
to dismiss. It appears to have been treated as a motion
to amend the record and it was denied. The court took
the view that as, by the assignment of errors filed with
the bill of exceptions, the question was raised as to the
sufficiency of the evidence to support the conviction, it
was necessary under the rule that the evidence should
be properly presented in condensed and narrative form.
The court held that the time for the settlement of the
bill of exceptions could not be enlarged, and that if the
bill were returned to the trial judge he would be powerless
to correct, amend or resettle it as the time for such
action had expired.
Finally the court decided that petitioner was inexcusably delinquent. The court said: "This appellant had
four months and has offered insufficient excuses for his
delinquency. The bill of exceptions was insufficient."

RAY v. UNITED STATES.
158

161

Opinion of the Court.

The motion to amend the record was denied and the
motion to dismiss the appeal was granted. 86 F. (2d) 942.
First.-T_e Government contends that the bill of exceptions filed on November 2d was too late. The Circuit Court of Appeals correctly held the contrary. The
trial judge, by valid order, had extended the time "to
and including the 1st day of November, 1936." That
day being Sunday, on which the bill of exceptions could
not be filed, the trial judge construed his order as permitting the settlement and filing on the following day.
Rule XIII of the Criminal Appeals Rules provides:
"For the purpose of computing time as specified in
the foregoing rules, Sundays and legal holidays (whether
under Federal law or under the law of the State where
the case was brought) shall be excluded."
The Government argues that this rule refers to a "computation," as where the extension is for a certain term
or period, and not to a case where a specific date is fixed.
The latter case is said to lie outside the rule and we are
referred to various decisions which are deemed to furnish
analogies for our guidance in reaching a conclusion upon
a point left open. But there appears to be no reason
why Rule XIII should be so narrowly construed. The
phrase "For the purpose of computing time" was plainly
intended to be of general application and "computing"
naturally embraces whatever reckoning is necessary to
fix the time allowed. When a specific date is fixed and
that date falls on Sunday or a holiday, the rule for the
reckoning requires that that day be excluded and hence
the bill of exceptions, in this case, apart fromh other questions, was settled and filed in time.
Second.-The Circuit Court of Appeals had authority
to extend the time for filing the bill of exceptions. Rule
IX does limit the power of the trial judge to grant extensions. The purpose of the Rule being to expedite appeals
in criminal cases, it was sought to put an end to the inor146212°-37-ii

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

dinate delays due to extensions of time to prepare bills of
exceptions. Such extensions had been one of the most
prolific causes of the delays in the disposition of criminal
appeals. Accordingly Rule IX provides:
"In cases other than those described in Rule VIII
[which refers to the record on appeal without bill of exceptions], the appellant, within thirty (30) days after
the taking of the appeal, or within such further time as
within said period of thirty days may be fixed by the
trial judge, shall procure to be settled, and shall file with
the clerk of the court in which the case was tried, a bill
of exceptions setting forth the proceedings upon which
the appellant wishes to rely in addition to those shown
by the clerk's record as described in Rule VIII."
The Rule presupposes that the trial judge, who is familiar with the proceedings on the trial, is in a position
to estimate the length of timhe that is necessary for the
preparation and filing of the bill of exceptions, and he is
permitted within thirty days after the taking of the
appeal to fix that time. That is the limit of his authority,1 save as he may act under the direction of the Circuit
Court of Appeals. But while this limit is placed upon
'See White v. United States, C. C. A. 4th, 80 F. (2d) 515, 516;
Yep v. United States, C. C. A. 10th, 81 F. (2d) 637; United States v.
Adamowicz, C. C. A. 2d, 82 F. (2d) 288; Gallagher v. United States,
C. C. A. 8th, 82 F. (2d) 721; Wolpa v. United States, C. C. A. &th,
84 F. (2d) 829; Cusamano v. United States, C. C. A. 8th, 85 F. (2d)
132; Spero v. United States, C. C. A. 8th, 85 F. (2d) 134; Slade v.
United States, C. C. A. 10th, 85 F. (2d) 786; Cary v. United States,
C. C. A. 9th, 86 F. (2d) 461; St. Charles v. United States, C. C. A.
9th, 86 F. (2d) 463; Goddard v. United States, C. C. A. 10th, 86 F.
(2d) 884; In re Lee, C. C. A. 5th, 87 F. (2d) 142; Wainer v. United
States, C. C. A. 7th, 87 F. (2d) 77; Fitzpatrick v. United States,
C. C. A. 7th, 87 F. (2d) 471; Millerv. United States, C. C. A. 9th, 88
F. (2d) 102; Hightower v. United States, C. C. A. 9th, 88 F. (2d)
302; Young v. United States, C. C. A. 10th, 88 F. (2d) 305. Compare
Fierman v. United States, C. C. A. 3d, 84 F. (2d) 968.

RAY v. UNITED STATES.
158

Opinion of the Court.

the power of the trial judge, the Criminal Appeals Rules
give full authority to the Circuit Court of Appeals to set
aside or modify his order whenever it appears that there
has been an abuse of discretion or that the interests of
justice require it.
The fundamental policy of the Criminal Appeals Rules
is that as speedily as possible, upon the taking of the
appeal, the Circuit Court of Appeals shall be invested
with jurisdiction to see that the appeal is properly expedited and to supervise and control all proceedings on the
appeal "including the proceedings relating to the preparation of the record on appeal." For this purpose the
Rules provide that the notice of the appeal shall be filed
in duplicate with the clerk of the trial court and a copy
of the notice shall be served upon the United States
Attorney. Rule III. By Rule IV it becomes the duty
of the clerk of the trial court immediately to forward
the duplicate notice of appeal to the clerk of the appellate
court, together with a statement from the docket entries
in the case substantially as provided in the form annexed
to the Rules. This is a ministerial duty which the clerk
of the trial court must perform. With respect to the authority of the Circuit Court of Appeals, Rule IV provides:
"From the time of the filing with its clerk of the duplicate notice of appeal, the appellate court shall, subject
to these rules, have supervision and control of the proceedings on the appeal, including the proceedings relating to the preparation of the record on appeal.
"The appellate court may at any time, upon five (5)
days' notice, entertain a motion to dismiss the appeal, or
for directions to the trial court, or to vacate or modify
any order made by the trial court or by any judge in relation to the prosecution of the appeal, including any order for the-granting of bail."
These provisions are comprehensive. The clause that
the appellate court's supervision and control shall be

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

"subject to these rules" refers to the rules governing the
action of the appellate court. To make effective this
supervision and control, any matter requiring correction
may be brought before the appellate court upon the short
notice of five days. Thus there may be not only a motion
to dismiss the appeal but "for directions to the trial court"
and "to vacate or modify any order made by the trial
court or by any judge in relation to the prosecution of the
appeal." As the supervision and control of the proceedings on the appeal expressly embraces the proceedings
"relating to the preparation of the record on appeal," it
cannot be said that an order made by the trial judge fixing
the time for the settlement and filing of a bill of exceptions is excluded. It is, of course, assumed that the Circuit Court of Appeals will not lightly interfere with the
action of the trial judge. But the Rules appropriately
provide for the correction of any miscarriage of justice in
this respect, and the lodging of the supervision and control with the appellate court gives the highest assurance
that on the one hand the action of the trial judge will not
be interfered with unnecessarily and on the other that
neither party will be remediless when corrective action is
required. For example, it may clearly appear on a showing by the Government that the time allowed by the trial
judge for the filing of a bill of exceptions is altogether too.
long and that, in .the interests of a reasonably prompt
disposition of the appeal, it should be shortened; or it
may clearly appear that the time allowed is unreasonably
short and that justice requires that an extension should
be granted. To give a desirable flexibility, the Rules do
not attempt to lay. down specific requirements to meet
various situations but place upon the Circait Court of
Appeals full responsibility for the exercise of a reasonable
control over all proceedings pertaining to the appeal and
all the orders of the trial court or judge in that relation.
Third.-The Circuit Court of Appeals had authority to

RAY v. UNITED STATES.
158

Opinion of the Court.

return the bill of exceptions to the trial judge and to require such correction as might be found to be appropriate,
including the setting forth of the evidence in condensed
and narrative form. Rule IX provides:
"Bills of exceptions shall conform to the provisions of
Rule 8 of the Rules of the Supreme Court of the United
States.
"Upon the filing of the bill of exceptions and assignment of errors, the clerk of the trial court shall forthwith
transmit them, together with such matters of record as
are pertinent to the appeal, with his certificate, to the
clerk of the appellate court, and the papers so forwarded
shall constitute the record on appeal.
"The appellate court may at any time, on five (5) days'
notice, entertain a motion by either party for the correction, amplification, or reduction of the record filed with
the appellate court, and may issue such directions to the
trial court, or trial judge, in relation thereto, as may be
appropriate."
The authority of the Circuit Court of Appeals thus extends to the "correction, amplification, or reduction" of
the record on appeal of which the bill of exceptions is a
part. The appellate court is authorized to require a
proper bill of exceptions and to give any directions to the
trial court or trial judge that may be necessary to attain
that end.
Rule 8 of the Rules of this Court to which Rule IX
refers, provides (Rule 8, par. 2):
"Only so much of the evidence shall be embraced in a
bill of exceptions as may be necessary to present clearly
the questions of law involved in the rulings to which
exceptions are reserved, and such evidence as is embraced
therein shall be set forth in condensed and narrative form,
save as a proper understanding of the questions presented
may require that parts of it be set forth otherwise. See
Equity l~L~~,75b, 226 U. S. Appendix, p. 23, as amended,
286 U. S. 570."

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

301 U. S.

Under Equity Rule 75b we have held that the Circuit
Court of Appeals is authorized, when a bill of exceptions
is presented to it showing that the requirement for condensation or narration has been transgressed, to remit
the transcript to the District Court so that a.further
opportunity may be had to comply with the Equity Rule.
We also said that, in such a remission, care should be
taken to require that the proceedings under the rule be
conducted with reasonable dispatch. Barber Asphalt Co.
v. Standard Asphalt Co., 275 U. S. 372, 387. In that
case this court concluded that the Circuit Court of Appeals had passed the bounds of sound discretion in affirming the decree appealed from, because of the violation
of the Equity Rule, and upon proper terms, should have
remitted the transcript to the District Court for appropriate revision. Nothing in the Criminal Appeals Rules,
in incorporating the requirement of Rule 8 of the Rules
of this Court, deprives the Circuit Court of Appeals of
like authority in dealing with bills of exceptions in criminal cases. On the contrary, Rule IX gives to the Circuit Court of Appeals that authority. The ruling in the
instant case that the trial judge could "no longer act
to put the evidence in narrative form" and that the appellate court had "no power to order him to do so" is
erroneous. The trial judge could act under the direction
of the appellate court and that court could give whatever direction the case required in order to give effect
to the Rule as to the proper preparation of the bill of
exceptions.
Fourth.-The supervision and control of the Circuit
Court of Appeals under the Criminal Appeals Rules calls
for the exercise of a sound judicial discrecion, and its
action will not be reviewed unless it appears that its
discretion has been abused. In the instant case, despite
the mistaken view of its authority, the court appears
to have rested its final conclusion upon the ground that,

RAY v. UNITED STATES.
158

Opinion of the Court.

even if the court had the power to grant petitioner's request, the circumstances justified its denial. The court
pointed to the fact that petitioner had four months to
procure the settlement of the bill of exceptions and the
court thought his excuses insufficient. While petitioner
strongly insists upon the authority of the appellate court,
he apparently took no steps to have that authority exercised in his favor until toward the end of October.
He complains that at that time, upon his motion for an
extension of time or other relief, the court itself suggested that an application should be made to the trial
judge for an order settling the stenographer's minutes
as the bill of exceptions, and that the circuit judges intimated to the Government's counsel that opposition to
that course should be withdrawn. This, it is said, took
place on October 27th. Petitioner urges that in directing the settlement of the bill of exceptions in its inappropriate form he was but following the suggestion of
the appellate court in view of his exigency and with the
idea that the condensation and narration of the evidence
could later be obtained. But the Circuit Court of Appeals was fully acquainted with all that had taken place.
When the later motions came before the court, it was
clearly entitled to review the whole' matter and reach a
conclusion as to the proper exercise of its discretion. It
was the province of the court to weigh the petitioner's
excuses. It did so and found them to be without merit.
In the light of its statement as to the ultimate ground
of its action we cannot say that the court failed to exercise its discretion or that its action was an abuse of discretion. In that view the order is
Affirmed.

