SUPREME COURT.

MATHEW HoBsoN, APPELLANT,

v. TnE HEIRs OF DUNCAN

MARTHUR, DECEASED, APPELLEE.
It was agreed between A.'andi H. that M'A. should withdraw the entries of ten thousand acres, part of eleven thousand six himdred and sixty-six acres, which had been
located fbr the use of H., and should relocate the same elsewhere; and that the ten
thousand acres, the entries of which had been withdrawn, and the ten thousand acres
relocated elsewhere by M'A., should be valued by two disinterested persons, ond
to be chosen by each party, and if the two could not agrce on the value of the land
or any part thereof, they should choose a third person, who should agree on the value
of the land, and that H. should have so much of the laud relocated as should
amount to the value of the land for which the locations had been renewed; and also
to the value of two thousand dollars in addition to the value of the ten thousand acres.
The two persons appointed could not agree as-to the value of part of the land, and
they nominated a third person. Of the three persons thus appointed, tw6 only agreed
ab to the valueof part of the land. By the'Court': It is an unreasonable construction of this agreement, that it was so framed as that it not only might fail to accomplish the very object intended; but, that in all probability it must fail, and become
entirely negatory, as the third man was not,to be called in until the two had disagreed. It is, a more reasonable construction to consider the third man as an
umpire tb decide between the two that should disagree. This would insure the
accomplishment of the object the parties had in view. The valuation by the two
appraisers was within the submission.
Where there is an original delegation of power to three persons, for a mere pnvate
purpose, all must agree; or the authority has not been pursued.
The Court under the prayer in a bill in Chancery for general relief, will grant such
relief onjf as the case stated in the bill and sustained by the proof will justiiy.

ON appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the
district of Ohio.
In the Circuit Court of Ohio, a bill wasfiled by Duncan M'Arthur, asking for a specific performance of a contract, dated the
10th of November, 1810. The complainant and the defendant,
with John Hobson, entered into certain- articles of agreement
refative to the withdrawal of the entries of land in the state of
Ohio, and the re-entry thereof on other lands, out of which, by
the contract between the parties, compensation was to be made
in the lands included in the relocation of the lands, of which the
entries had been withdrawn. The value of the lands,.the entries
of which were, by the agreement, to be withdrawn, and of the

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

183

[Hobson v. MIA-rthur.]

land on which the entries were to be relocated, were to be determined by persons mutfually chosen and agreed upon; who, if they
could not agree, were to nominate a thira person.
Out of this agreement, and proceedings under it, the questions
in this case arose, and were -argued by Mr. Stanbery, for the appellant, and by Mr. Mason, for the appellees, the heirs of Dncan
M'Arthur, who became parties to the proceedings on the decease
of Duncan M'Arthur. In the Circuit Court a decree was given
in favour of the complainant, Duncan M'Arthur; and the defendant, Mathew Hobson, prosecuted this appeal.
The case is fully stated in the opinion of the Court.
The question decided by the Court was as to the construcjion
of the agreement of the parties, to submit the value of .the land
to the determination of persons mutually chosen and agreed
upon, and if.they could not agree that they should appoint a third
person.
Mr. Stanbery, for the appellant, contended that "thedecree of
the Circuit Court-is erroneous, in setting aside the appraisement
of M'Arthur's surveys.
The contract of November 10, 1810, provides for an appraisal
of the lands, entered by Langham, and the lands entered by
McArthur, "by two disinterested men, one to be chosen by each
of the contracting parties; and if the said two men cannot agree
on the price of the said lands, or any part thereof, the said two
men are to choose a third man, who, together with the other two,
shall agree on the price of said land.",
It appears that the two itppraisers first viewed thb Langharn
entries, and disagreeing as to their value, called in Lyne Starling
as a third man; and the three concurred in an appraisement of
these lands; but differing in the value of 'the M'Arthur entries,
an award as t6 their value was made by Starling and one of the
appraisers, without the concurrence' of the other appraiser.
Mr. Stanbeiry argued that the intention- of the parties to the
.contract, was, that the- third man was to act as an ump"e, not
M a third arbitrator.
He admitted that the rule is well settled that. ali the~arbitrators
mustconcur, ufiless the submission provides for an award by a

majority.

SUPREME COURT.
[Hobson v. MAxthur.].

But this was not a submission to three arbitrators. The submission is to two, and it is only in the event of their inability to
agree, that the third man is to intervene. For what purpose?
Not, certainly, to add to the difficulty by a new and discordant
opinion, but to settle it by his decision.
It was not necessary to the validity of the award that the two
arbitrators should concur with the umpire, or that either of them
should concur with him; and the circumstance that the award is
signed by one of the arbitrators as well as by the umpire, does
not vitiate. Watson on'Arbit. 64.
2. But if the appraisement of the M'Arthur surveys cannot be
sustained, the whole award is void; and the decree of the Circuit
Court is erroneous in sustaining the appraisement of the Langham
entries.
Tha express language of the contract is, that " the land from
which the ten thousand acres is to be withdrawn as located by
Elias"Langham, and also the land to be re-entered by M'Arthur,
is to be valued by two disinterested men," &c.
Besides this specific enumeration of the matt'.rs submitted, it
is obvious that nothing short of an appraisement of both sets of
entries would avail ; for the object was to fix the relative values,
and that could only be accomplished by a valuation of both.
The arbitrators must respond to -all matters specifically submitted, especially where there is a dependency and necessary
connexion in the matters submitted.
Mr. Mason, for the appellees.
1.The mode of ascertaining the value of the lands is provided
for 14 the contract.
Each party is to choose one man; and if the men thus chosen
cannot agree, they "are to choose a third man, who, together
with the other two, shall agree on the price of the land."
It Was doubtless competent for the parties to agree that the
concurrence of the whole number of appraisers should be requisite
to constitute a valid appraisement of the land. There is no
ambiguity in the terms of the contract. They do expressly
require that the three men should "agree on the price." And
they all did agree as to the price of the lands located by Lang-

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

185

[Hobson v. M'Arthur.]

ham. But only two agreed in appraising the lands entered by
M'Arthur.
The question is, whether the appraisement made by two is
valid in law?
There is a difference in this respect between a private authority, and a public trust and duty; in the former case, all must
join; in the latter; the power to several. is well executed by the
majority: "unless it be expressly provided in the subniission,
that a less number than all the arbitrators named may make the
award, the concurrence of all is necessary." Kid *onAwards, p.
106; Watson on the Law of Arbitration, p. 85, ed. 1836; Grindley v. Barker, 1 Bos. & Pul. 229 ; Cortes. v. Kent Waterworks
Company, 7 Barn. & Cres. 314; Rex v. Whitaker, 9 Barn. & Cres.
648; Dalling v. Mitchell, Barnes, 57, Willes, 2I.6, S. C.; Green
v. Miller, 6 Johns., 40; Berry v. Penning, Cro. Jac. OO, 399;
FelloWes v. Girling, Cro. Jac. 277- 5 Dane's Ab. 562.
2. The appraisement was also invalid because the agent transcended his authority. in two particulars, viz.: 1st, In having
more land appraised than was required to pay the debt,: and
2d, In having other lands appraised than those described in the
power of attorney, under which he derived his authority. The
power of attorney was in conformity with the terms of the
contract.
3. It was void for uncertainty in this, to wit: That the contract required the appraissment to be made in such a manner that
Hobson could have released his title to the residue of the land not
appraised; whereas the appraisers proceeded to value mor6 than
thirty-six thousand dollars' worth of land to pay a debt of nine
thousand two hundred and fifty dollars.
The appraisement, therefore, was made in such a manner
as to render it impossible for Hobson to comply with that essential part of the contract, which required him to convey to M'Arthur
all the land that would remain after deducting the 'quantity required to pay the debt due to himself.
But Hobson was not content to have as much land, and no
more, set off and appraised as was necessary to pay the debt;
nor did he have all the lands entered by, M'Arthur appraisedWithout having all appraised, he Would have nearly four
times as much appraised as was required to discharge his claim.
S2
24

186

SUPREME COURT.
(Hobson v..M'ATthur.]

Certainly the Court cannot find in such acts of capriciousness,
a compliance with the letter or spirit of the contract.
A qustion naturally arises on this branch of the case, who
Was.the
had the right to select the land for appraisement?
right vested in the appraisers? or in the parties jointly ? or in one
of them, and which? It is answered, in the debtor. MArthur
claimed this right, and asserted it in the letter of attorney to his
son.
The privilege of choice is not in the creditor in such cases.
The contract provided, in case of a deficiency of land to pay
the debt, that M'Arthur should give other lands, &c. These
other lands he undoubtedly had a right to select.
But, supposing the appraisement of the M'Arthur enties to be
void, what effect will that have on the appraisement of the Langham entries?
"If a thing be awarded to be done, which is bad fol uncertainty, or as being beyond the submission, or for any other
objection; and this part of the award does not form a consideration for the performance of-the matter awarded on the other part,
and is distinct and independent thereof; then the award is only
void for so much."
Though formerly .otherwise, "nothing now is more clear, than
that an award may be -bad in one part, and yet good and binding
in another part." Watson on the Law of Arbitration, pp. 190,
191.
Assuming, therefore, that the appraisement, so far as it respected
the M'Arthur entries, was void for any one or all the reasons
assigned, and valid as to the residue; I proceed to inquire what
decree the complainants are entitled to ask for.
M'A rthur had a righi, by the contract, to pay in land or money,
at his option; and on payment being made or tendered, in either
mode, he had a right to require Hobson to release.
Every stipulation to pay a debt in specific property is presuined to be made in favour of the debtor; and therefore, he may,
in all cases, pay the debt in money in lieu of the property which,
for the ease of the debtor, the creditor had agreed to receive.
Chipman on Cont., pp. 31, 32, 34, 44; 2 Kent's Com. 400.
The contract, in its legal effect, was a purchase of the warrants
for a suhn of money thereafter to be acertained in the mode pre-

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

187

(H~booil v. M'Arthw.]

scribed' by the contract, and to be paid in land .or 13oaey, at the
option of M'Arthur. It was the same in sub taw as a contract
to pay so much money: for instance, one hundred.dallars in
wheat or cattle.
This argument -is not weakened by the fact that the warrants
were to be're-6ntered in the name of Hobson; because the only
object the parties could have had in the..provision, requiring the
entries to'be made in the name of Hobson, was to afford him
security for the performance of the contract on the part of Mkr.
thur.
But ifM'Arthur had not the right of election,.whica. is contended for, but on the contrary could have been compelled in a
Court of Equity to pay in land; then it is maintained that the condudt of Hobson has released him from that obligation; and deprived himself of the right, if he ever had a right, to demand payment in property.
M'Arthur offered to pay in money, or to appoint another
appraiser on his part, which Hobson refused. This appears
in the record.
The principle is, that an offer to do a thing is so far equivailent
to performance, that it will entitle the person making it to
demand whatever he was to have upon the performance. 2 Lord
Raym. 961; Hotham v. East hidiaCompany, I Term Rep. 645;
Parker v. Parkenhorne, 2 Wash. C.C. Rep.. 142; 15 Petersdoift,
Marg. p. 24; Daug. Marg. pp. 259, 659.
The interpretation of the contract which is contended for, ;was
not fully sustained by the Court below.
That'Court set aside the appraisement of MlArthuris entries,
and directed the parties to re-appoint other appraisers. Buti if
Hobson should neglect or refuse to appoint, he was ordered to
release his interest in the lands on receiving the sum of nine thousand two hundred and fifty dollars, to be paid by M'Arthdr. He
did refuse to appoint another appraiser. , And he had before
received a larger sum in money than he was entitled to have,
as was shown by the confidential contract.
If the appraisement was properly set aside, and Hobson would
not appoint another appraiser, and he had twice refused to do it,
he was bound to release on payment or tender of the money.
What other decree could have been made?

SUPREME COURT.
[Hobwn v,M'Arthur.]

Mr. Justice THOMPSON delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case comes up from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the district of Ohio. The bill filed in the Court below is
founded upon, and seeks a specific execution of the following
agreement, bearing date the 10th of November, 1810.
,Tt is hereby agreed upon betwe6n Duncan M'Arthur, of Ross
county, and state of Ohio, of the one part, and John Hobson, of
Jackson county, and state of Georgia, and Mathew Hobson, of
Oglethorpe county, and state of Georgia, aforesaid, on the'other
part, witnesseth, that, whereas, eleven thousand six hundred and
sixty-six and two-third'acres were sent to Col. Richard C. Anderson's office, on or about the first instant, by Col. Elias Langham,
in the name and for the use of said John and Mathew Hobson,
with entries for the same. Now be it known, that it -is hereby
understood, and agreed upon by the contracting parties, that said
M'Arthur is to withdraw ten thousand acres of the eleven thousand six hundred and sixty-six and two-third acres, and to relocate
the said ten thousand acres elsewhere, in the name of the said
John and Mathew; and it is further agreed upon by the contracting parties, that the land from which the said ten thousand acres
is to be withdrawn, as located by Elias Langham, and also the
land to be re-entered by said M'Arthur, is to be valued by two
disinterested men, one to be chosen by each of the contracting
parties, and if the said two men cannot agree on the price of said
lands, or any part thereof, the said two men are to choose a third
man, who, together with the other two, shall agree on the price
of said land, and the said Hobsons are to have so much of said
land, so to be relocated by said M'Arthur, as will amount to the
value of the land from which said warrants shall have been removed, and also land to the amount and value of two thousand
dollars, in addition to the value of the ten thousand, and where
the same was entered by Elias Langham; and the said John and
Mathew Hobson doth hereby obligate themselves, their heirs,
executors, and administrators, separately and jointly, to convey
unto the said M'Arthur, his heirs, &c., all and singular the balance
of said ten thousand acres, after deducting therefrom such quantity as by valuation as aforesaid will amount to the value of the
said ten thousand acres, where the same was first located by said
Langham, and also land to the value of two thousand dollars, as

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

189

[Hobson v. M'Athur.]

aforesaid; and it is further understood and agreed upon, that if
the lands located by the said M'Arthur, should not be valued to
the amount of the lands so located by said Langham, and also
two thousand dollars, then, and hi.that case, said M'Arthur is to
convey unto the said John and Mathew, their heirs, &c., other
lands to the amount of said valuation, with the value of two
thousand dollars in land as aforesaid, said Hobson to pay all
office fees and surveying expenses. Said valuation to take place
on or before the expiration of three and a half years from the
date hereof; said Hobson to pay the taxes on said lands until
divided; and then the said M'Arthur to pay to the,, said Hobson
his proportionable part of said taxes.
In witness whereof, we, the contracting parties, do hereunto set
our hands and seals; this 10th day of November, A. D. 1810.
Be it remembered before signing, that the division of said lands
shall -take place forthwith, after the titles are considered secure,
and that the lands located by Langham, are to be picked as he
upon his honour intended.

Signed

DUNCAN M'ARTHUR, [L. S.]
JOHN

Witness :

& M. HoBsoN,

[L.

s.]

E. LANGHAM,
EDWARD BASKERVILLE.

The bill, after having set out substantially this contract; states,
that John Hobson, on the 24th of November, 1818, sold and assigned to the complainant all his fight and title to one-half (five
thousand acres) of the land warrants located by him. That in
pursuance of said agreement, he withdrew ten thousand acres of
Langliam's entries, and located them elsewhere. That on the
30th of July, 1830, he appointed his son, Thomas J. M'Arthur,
his attorney, to transact the business under the said contract; who,
in pursuance of said power, appointed, on his part, William
Vance, to proceed in the valuationof the said lands. And that
for the same purpose Mathew Hobson appointed Mathew Bonner, who proceeded to view the land; and finding that they could
not agree on the value, they selecteu Lyne Starling, as a third
man, to make the appraisement, pursuant to, the terms of the
agreement, who, together with Vance and Bonnerj agreed upon
the valuation of the lands located by Langham. The complain-

190

SUPREME COURT.
[Hobwon v. M(Arthur.]

ant' further states, that, afterwards, his agent proposed to the paid
Mathew Hobson, to select. and point out to the anuraisers for
valuation, such parts of -the -entries made by-.'MArthur. as would
amount to a sufficient quantity to satisfy the said 'Hobpon, which
proposition he declined, and insisted that it was his right to have
the 'whole of the lands entered by the complainant valued. That
he was entitled to an interest in the whole of the entries made by
the complainant, proportional to the valuation of the Langham
entries. The, bill states that afterwards the three appraisers p'roceeded to examine the lands, relocated by M'Arthur, and that
two'only 6f the appraisers; Bonner and Starling,.agreed on the
valuation. And the"bill then charges that the said valuation has
not been made iii conformity to the said agreement; in this, that
the said three, appraisers have not all agreed as to the value of
the lands relocated by the complainant, but that only two agreed
thereto. Several other charges are made against the validity-bf
this appraisement, which it is unnecessary to notice. The bill
then sets out sevdral proposals made by the complainant for the
settlement of the controversy, which he declined accepting, and
refused making any -conveyance or assignment of his interest in
the land located by the complainant. The bill, then, forthe'purpose of obtaining an injunction, refers to an act of Congress, of
the 26th of May, 1830, for the settlement of the conflicting claims
of the complainant atid the United States, to the land in qupstiofi;
and charges that the defendant Hobson threatens to apply to the
government .for the appraised value and interest of five thousand
acres of the land, entered in the name of the said Mathew Hobson; and prays that he may be enjoined from claiming and receiving from-the treasury of the United States any part of the
money appropriated by the act of Congress, until the same is
heard and adjudicated'upon by the Court. And further; praying
that the said Hobgon may be decreed to accept some one of the
terms proposed ]by him, in fulfilment of the contract, according
to its true intent -and understanding. And that he may be compelled to perform the said agreement specifically, on his part, as
the complainant has proposed and tendered to do on his part; and
such other and further relief as may seem meet and just.
The answer of Hobson admits-the contract of the 10th of November, 1810, set out in the bill; and that he is willing to abide

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

191

[Hdeon v. M'Arthur.]

by the same, according to the just interpretation thereof. He
admits the appointment of appraiseis, and their proceeding to
the valuation of the land, as stated in the*bill,. and that - thereupon .he informed the complainant of his willingness to settle all
matters under the contract; and that after taking and retaining
such proportion of the lands entered by the complainant, and
valued as set out in the bill and answer, as would cover, and
include the claims of him, the defendant, under the contract and
agreeable to such valuation, he was willing, and then offered to
assign and relinquish to the complainant, the rest and residue of
the lands so valued, and also all the other entries and surveys
made by the complainant; which he wholly refused to do. The
defendant admits that he rejected all the demands and requisitions of the complainant made at -the time alluded to, aid'all
the demands which had for their object and design' a disregard in
part or in whole of the doings of the appraisers. The defendant
admits the passage of an act of Congress mentioned in the bill,
and that he means to avail himself of its provisions, if he can
obtain a settlement of the matter with the complaihant; but he
is prevented by the complainant from relinquishing his interest
in the lands to the United States. And he denies the right of
the complainant to confine him to any particular part of either
of the surveys, valued by the appraisers; but that when it is
ascertained what number of acres he is entitled to under the
contract and valuation, then he will hold the same undivided and
in common with the complainant, 'until by partition it shall be
divided. And he denies the right of the complainant to pay off
and settle with him in a given sum of money. That he is perfectly willing to abide by the valuation made by the appraisers,
and relinquish his claim as before offered.
An interlocutory decree was thereupon entered, declaring that
the appraisement made by only two of the appraisers of the relocated entries and surveys made by M'Arthur was 4.oid, and
ordered the same to be set aside and annulled; and then proceeds to give directions for another appraisement, which the defendant Hobson refused to comply with; and thereupon a final
decree was entered, declaring that the complainant, M'Arthur,
had complied on his part with the interlocutory decree, and that
thq respondent Hobson had altogether neglected to comply with

192

SUPREME COURT.
[Hobson v. M'Axthur.]

the same on his part; and alleging that the sum of nine thousand two hundred and fifty dollars had been paid by MArhur
to Hobson, as appeared by his receipt annexed to the agreement
of the 25th of September, 1830. It was thereupon ordered,
adjudged, and decreed, that the said Hobson should within sixty
days after the rising of the Court, by a good and sufficient deed,
transfer and assign to Duncan M'Arthur, his heirs and assigns,
all his right, title, and interest in the ten thousand acres of land
relocated and surveyed by the said Duncan M'Arthur; and that
in case he should fail to coinply with this decree, within the time
thereby limited, then that the decree should operate as such conveyance. And from this decree the present appeal is taken.
The first and principal question 'in the case is, whether the
appraisement or valuation of the land was made pursuant to
the provisions of the contract of the 10th of November, 1810.
If it was, then the decree in this respect is erroneous. And it
was the fault of the complainant that the contract was not carried
into execution; and he cannot come now to ask for a specific
execution of it.
The agreement was, that the land located by Langham, from
which the ten thousand acres were to be withdrawn, and also
the land to be re-entered by M'Arthur, should be valued by two
disinterested men, one to be chosen by each of the contracting
parties; and in case the two men thus chosen could not agree on
the price of said lands, then they were to choose a third man,
who, together with the other two, shall agree on the price of the
said lands. The parties in pursfiance of the.agreement, each chose
a man to make the valuation, and upon their disagreement with
respect to the, same, they chose a third man, and the whole three
thereupon a';eed as to the valuation of the Langham location,
but disagreed in the valuation of the M'Arthur location; and the
valuation was made by Starling and Bonner, two of the appraisers: and it is contended that this valuation was void, because
made by two only.
It has been argued, that this being a delegation of power to
the three, for a mere private purpose, all must agree, -or the authority has not been pursued. This may be admitted to be the
rule, where the original delegation of the power is to the three,
without any other provision on the subject. But in construing

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

193

[Hobeon v. M'Arthur.]

this agreement, we must look at what was the obvious intention
of the parties. The parties clearly intended, that the valuation
should at all evepts be made. A third man was not to be called
in unless the two disagreed; and it is an unreasonable construction of this agreement that it was so framed that it not only
might fail to accomplish the very object intended, but that in all
probability it must fail and become entirely nugatory, as the third
man was not to be called until the two had disagreed. Upon the
construction of the agreement, that the three must unite in the
valuation, the office to be .yerformed by the third man was to
persuade the other two to agree with him. This could never
have been the understanding of the parties. It is a more reasonable construction to consider the third man in the character of an
umpire, to decide between the two that should disagree. This
would insure the accomplishment of the object the parties had
in view. But a contrary construction would most likely defeat
that object.
Upon this view of the agreement, the valuation by two of the
appraisers was within the submission.
It has also been made a question whether the whole of the land
re-entered by MiArthur was to be valued, or only so much as was
to be retained by Hobson. The terms of the submission would
seem to settle this question. It expressly provides that the land
from which the ten thousand acres, located by Langham, was to
be withdrawn, and also the land to be re-entered by M'Arthur,
were to be valued, &c., and this must have been the understanding
of the parties in order to make a just partition between them.
There is no provision made for the selection of any particular
part to be appraised. By whom, then, was such part to be, designated? But when the whole of each tract is valued, the proportion which Hobson is to have in the M'Arthur location is
easily ascertained; and they would become tenants in common,
subject to partition, according to their respective rights. Such is
the clear construction of this agreement.. It does not contemplate
the sale of the land or the division of any proceeds therefrom. A
reference in the bill to the act of Congress of the 26th of May,
1830, (4 Story's Laws, 2197,) appears to be for the purpose of
obtaining an injunction to restrain Hobson from receiving any
money from the treasury of the United States, appropriated b
VOL. XVI.-R
25

194

SUPREME COURT.
(Hobson v. M'Arlhur.]

that act. But the bill is not framed with a view to enforcing any
rights growing out of that act, but prays that Hobson may be
compelled to perform the agreement of the lrth of November,
1810, twenty years before that act was passed. It is true that
there appears upon the record, an agreement entered into between
these parties, bearing date the 25th of September, 1830, relative
,to a division of the money to be paid by the government under
this act. But this was an agreement'made after the commencement of this suit, and which we cannot notice for. several reasons.
If any relief is to be given on the basis of that agreement, it
should have been brought before the Court below, by a supple.
mental bill. But another insuperable objection is, that by an
express stipulation in the agreement, it is not to be made use of
in this case. This stipulation is as follows: "The said pdrties
mutually agree and covenant, that this contract and agreement
shall not be used by either of them, nor at any time held or interpreted in the suit aforesaid, or in any other suit, or in any other
Court, or in any proceedings, whether in Court or-out of Court,
under the aforesaid contract, /the contract of the loth of November, 1810,) as affecting, changing,.or in anywise disturbing the
rights of either in the matters aforesaid; but. the suit aforesaid
shall be conducted, and any other suit which either of them may
think proper to bring, founded on the contract aforesaid, may and
shall be conducted, in all -respects, as though this contract had not
been entered into."
In addition to. this, the counsel on both sides declined, upon the
argument, making any use whatever of this agreement. It must,
therefore, be dismissed, as having no bearing upon the case. And
if so, there is no proof whatever that Hobson had received any
money on account of his land. The defendant, Hobson, was
under no obligations to aqcept either of the propositions of the
complainant, as stated in the bill. There is nothing in the contract of 1810 that called upon him'to do this; and especially after
he had, on his part, complied with the provisions of thai contract.
And if the agreement of 1830 is laid out of view, there is no
proof to show that Hobson had received nine thou sanci two hundred and fifty dollars, as is assumed in the decree, and made the
ground upon which he is ordered to transfer and assign to, M'Ar.
thur, all his right, title, and interest in the whole ten thousand

3JANIZARY TERM, 1842.

195

[Hob on v. 'Arthur.]
acres of land, relocated -and surveyed by McArthur. This could
not have been done under the prayer for general relief. The
Court, under this prayer, wvill grant such relief only as the case
stated in the bill, and sustained by the proofs will justify. The
frame and structure of the bill in this case is for a specific execution of the contract- of the 10th of November, 1810, which provides only for the valuation of the lands, and makes no provision
for the sale of the land or the payment of any mobey. And if
the facts would justify a prayer for any such relief, the bill
should have been framed with. a double aspect; so that if the
Court should decide against the complainant in-one .view of the
case, it might afford him .relief in another. But this bill is not
so framed.
The decree of the Circuit Court, must, therefore, be reversed.
But, as the rights of the heirs of McArthur may depend, insome
measure, upon the contract of the loth of November, 1810, connected with what has since taken place, under the act of Congress,
we think the bill ought to be dismissed, without prejudice.
Itis accordingly adjudged and ordered, that the decree of the
Court below be reversed; and the cause remanded to the Circuit
Court, with directions to dismiss the bill, without prejudice.

