THE DECISIONS
OF THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

'JANUARY TERM, 1842.

JoHN SwiFT v. GEORGE

W. Tysozi.

Action in te Circuit Court of New York on a bill of exchange accepted in New
York, instituted by the holder, a citizet of the state of Maine. The acceptance and
endorsement of the biil were admitted, and the defence was rested on allegations that
the bill had been received in payment of a pre-existent debt, and that the acceptance
had been given for lands which the acceptor had purchased from the drawer of-the
bill, to which lands the drawer had no title; and that the quality of the lands had
been misrepresented; and the purchaser imposed upon by the fraud of the drawer,
and those who were co-owners of the land, and co-operators in the sale. The bill
accepted had been received bona fide, and before it was dtte.
There is no doubt that a bona fide holder of a negotiable instrument for a valuable consideration, without any notice of the facts which implicate its validity as between the
antecedent parties, if he takes it under in endorsement made before the same becomes
due, holds the title unaffected by those facts; and may recover'thereon, although, as
between the antecedent parties, the transaction may be without any legal validity.
The holder of negotiable paper, before it is due, is not bound to prove that he is a bona
holder for a valuable consideration, without hotie; for the law will presume that,
fide
in the absence of all rebutting proof: and thereforeit is incumbent on a defendant,
to establish by way of defence satisfactory proofs of the contrary, and thus to over.
come the prima facie title of the plaintiff.
of 1789, which declares, "That the laws
The thirty-fourth section of the judiciary acL
of the several states, except where the Constitution, treaties, or statutes of the United
States shall otherwise recognise or provide, shall be regarded as rules of decision in
trials at common law in the Courts of the United States, in cases where they apply,"
has uniformly been supposed by the Supreme Court to be limited in, its application
to state laws strictly local: that is to say, to the positive statutes of the state, and
the construction thereof adopted by the local tribunals, and to rights and titlea to

VOL. XV1.-A

1

SUPREME COURT.
[Swift v. Tyson.)
things having a permanent locality, such as the rights and titles to real estates, and
other matters immovable and intrtterritorialin their nature and character. The section does not extend to contracts or other instruments of a commercial nature; the
true interpretation and effect. whereof are to be sought, not in the decisions of the
local tribunals, but in the general principlea and doctrines of commercial jurispru.
dence.

OUw a certi~cate of division from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York.
This action was instituted in the Circuit Court upon a bill of
exchange, dated at Portland, in the state of Maine, on the first
day of May, 1836, for one thousand five hundred and thirty-six
dollars and thirty cents, payable six months after date, drawn by
Nathaniel Norton, and Jairus S. Keith, upon ahid accepted by the
defendant, the bill having been drawn to the order of Nathaniel
Norton, and by him endorsed to the plaintiff. The principal and
interest on the bill,up to-the time of trialfamounted to one thousand
eight hundred and sixty-two dollars aid six cents. The defence
to the action rested on the answers to a bill of discovery filed by
the defendant against the plaintiff; by which it appeared that the
bill had been received by him from Nathaniel Norton, with
another draft -ofthe same amount in payment of a protested note
drawn by Norton and Keith, and which had been paid by him
to the Maine Bank. When the draft was received by the plaintiff, it had been accepted by the defendant, who resided in New
'York. The plaintiff had no knowledge of the consideration
which had been received for the acceptance, and had no othex
transaction with the defendant. He had received the drafts and
acceptances in payment of the protested note, with a full belief
that the same were justly due, according to their tenor; and he had
no other security for the payment of the protested note except
the drafts, nor had he, any knowledge of any contract pr dealing
between the defendant and Norton, out. of which the said draft
arose.
The d~fendant then offered to prove that the bill of. exchange
was accepted by him as part consideration for the purchase of
certain lands in the state of Maine, of which Keith and Norton,
the drawers of. the bill, represented themselves to be the owners,
and represented them to be of great value, made certain e.qtimates

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

3

[Swi v.Tyson.]
of them which were warranted by them to bd corrct, and also
contracted to convey a good title to the land; all of which representations were in every respect' fraudulent and false'; and that
said Keith and Norton have never been able to make a title to
the lands: whereupon the plaintiff, by his counsel, objected to the
admission of said testimony, or any. testimony, as against the
plaintiff, impeaching or showing the failure of the consideration
on which said bill was accepted, under the facts aforesaid admitted
by the defendant, and those proven by him, by reading said
answers in equity of the plaintiff in evidence. And the judges
of the Court divided in opinion on the point or question of law,
whether, under the facts last mentioned, the defendant was entitled
to the samedefence to the action as if the suit was between the
original parties to the bill,-that is to say, the said Norton, or the
said Norton and Keith, and the defendant. And whether the
evidence so offered in defence and objected to was admiissible as
against the plaintiffs in this action.
And thereupon the said point or question of law was, at the
request of the counsel for the said plaintiff, stated as above under
th6 direction of the judges of this Court, to be certified under the
seal of this Court to the Supreme Court of the United States, at
the next session thereof to be held thereafter; to be finally decided
by the said. last mentioned Court.
The case'was sibmitted to the. Court on printed arguments
by Mr. Fessenden, for the plaintiff;- and by Mr. Dana, for the defendant.
Mr. Fessenden argued, that the defence offered and objected
to is no defence as against the plaintiff in this action. The right
of the plaintiff to recover, resting, in the first place, on admissions
and proof, is established prima facie. TIhe defendant, by his
course of proceeding, has admitted: First, that the bill in suit
was endorsed to the plaintiff during its course, as negotiable
paper, about five months before it became due, according to its
tenor.
Second, That .when it was received by the plaintiff, he had no
notice, or knowledge, or intimation of any fact to the dishonour
of the bill; on the contrary, he was assured by his debtor it would

SUPREME COURT.
[Swift V.Tyson.]

be- paid-promptly at maturity, and that previous acceptances
given in payment of the sale of land had been paid at maturity.
Third, That the acceptance was taken in payment of a preexistent debt, and that the -plaintiff had no other security for the
debt due to him, by Norton and Keith but this acceptance, and
an -acceptance of the same character -for the residue of his claim
on Norton and Keith; arid that on receiving the acceptance he
had given.up the note of Norton and Keith, which had been endorsed by one Child.
By the cases of Bank of Salina v. Babcock and others,
21 Wendell, 499, and Bank of Sandusky v. Scoville and others,
24 Wendell, 115,'it distinctly appears, that the latest opinion of
the Supreme Court of New York is,--and seemingly as if that
Court had never decided otherwise-that'receiving negotiable
paper in payment of an antecedent debt, is the same thing, in all
respects, as regards the rights of the recipient endorsee of such
paper, as if he had paid money, or any other valuable consideration for it, at the time, on the credit of the paper.
But if these. cases7 cannot be reconciled, with the plaintiff
Swift's side of the present .question, are they, unsustained as they
are by like decisions in any other of the states in this Union ;
resting, as they do, on an obvious misinterpretation of the case of
Coddington and Bay; and'contradicting,, as they do, the earlier
decision of the same Court on the very point, in the case of Warren and Lynch, which has been referred to; and tending, as
they do, to drive commercial negdtiable paper out of one of the
paths of its greatest utility-are they still to overthrow the decisions of this CourtAn the cases of'Coolidge and Payson, and
Townsley and Sumrall? It is contended, on the part of the
defendant, that they are, and that this high Court is bound to
follow them with unreasoning submission, because the bill in
question was drawn on ihe city of New York, in the state of New
York; and on account of the thirty-fourth section of the judiciary act of 1789, which provides, that "the laws of the several tates, except where the Constitution, treaties, or statutes of the
United States shall otherwise require or provide, shall be regarded as rules of decision, in trials at common law -in cases
where they apply."
In answer-to this, it is urged. that, in the.first place, after oh-

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

5

[Swift v..Tyson.]
serving that it is not pretended that the decisions of the Supreme
Court of New York referred to, are founded on, or are in exposition of, the constitution or any statute of that state, th.t the phrase
claws of the several states," in the thirty-fourth section of the judiciary act, means nothing else than the written constitutional
system and statutes of such states; and that, if the framers of the
act of Congress had not known that all the states had such written constitutions of government laws of paramount authority in
those states; and had not wished to frame their enactments in
language popular'and comprehensive, as well as accurate, they
would have used the word "statutes," the appropriate technical
word for laws framed by the legislature, ingtead of the word
"laws.'" If they had intended to embrace in the section the traditionary, or otherwise derived common law of such states, as
expounded by the decisions of the state Courts; being, as they
were, scholars as well as lawyers, they would have incorporated
in the section, by way of substitute or addition, some such general
phrase as "systems of law." In common parlance, the word
I"laws," in the plural, means, and did mean in 1789, legislative
enactments. The same word also embraces, popularly and technically, when speaking of the regulations of the respective United
States, their constitutions of government, as well as their legislative enactments; and the former, as well as the latter, were
doubtless intended to be included in the thirty-fourth section. For
these reasons the word "laws," instead of the word "statutes,"
makes part of the section.
It is admitted that if the bill had been delivered to the plaintiff
by Norton for value delivered to him, Norton, at the time on the
strength or credit of the bill, the defence should be rejected.
But it is contended on the part of the defendant, that inasmuch
as the bill was received by the plaintiff in payment, though it
were absolute payment of a pre-existing debt; and though he
has no evidence of, or security for, such debt, except the new
security in his hands, received in tpayment of -the old; the bill in
question was not ei~dorsed to him in the usual course of trade, so
as to give him any rights as the holder of it, different from those
of the person who transferred it to him; however he may have
received it fairly and in good faith, and without notice of any
thing which would disenable the party transferring it to him, to
A2

6

SUPREME COURT.
[Swift v.Tyson.]

recover it of the aceptor-and however the fact may be as to its
original lawfulness. This is the question for the court to decide:
and it is contended, that the bill being so transferred and received
in payment of a pre-existing debt, gives the endorsee all the
rights as against the acceptor which he would have had, if, at the
time he received it, he had paid the amount of it, in money, to
the endorser.
It certainly should be so. The uise of negotiable paper has
hardly been of greater service to civilized man, in facilitating the
transmission of the equivalent of money, and thus in answering,
in some respects, the purposes of money itself, than in preventing
hostile proceedings in courts of law for the collection of money
due. Indeed, one of the principal good effects of the former is,
that it tends to prevent suits at law. In point of fact, thousands
of suits have been prevented by receiving a bill of exchange or
promissory note, with an additional name upon it, payable at a
future day, in discharge of a debt, which, although due, the
cbtor at the moment could discharge in no other way. But if it
comes to be settled by law, that the creditor upon such an occasion, must, at his peril, ascertain that the additional party, whose
name is upon the paper, has no good defence to its payment as
against the person proposing to transfer it to such creditor, it will
deter him from receiving it; in lieu of the money he demands;
and will, in many instances, lead to suits, which otherwise would
not have been commenced.
This high Court has on6e and again decided the very question
involved in this case, in the case of Coolidge et al. v. Payson et
al., 2 Wheaton, 66 to 73, and in Townsley v. Sumrall, 2 Peters,
170 to 180.
The general rule as to negotiable paper is, that where it is not
unlawful and void in its inception, he to whom it is transferred
while current, in due form, and who receives it in good faith, and
for a valuable consideration, without notice of any thing which
would exonerate the maker or acceptor of it from paying it to
the one from whom he receives it, can recover its amount from
such maker or acceptor, although the party from whom he received it could not. Lord Raymond, 738; 1 Salkeld, 126; 3 Salkeld, 71; Grant v. Vaughan, 3 Burrows, 1516. But surely the
discharge of a just debt is a valuable consideration. Comyn's

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

7

[Swift v,Tyson.]

Digest, New York ed. of 1824, vol. 1, page 300, title, "Action on
the Case upon Assumpsit," B. 3, "Discharge of a debt a good
consideration to raise an assumpsit."
In Baker v. Arnold,
3 Caines' Rep. 279, it was decided by the Supreme Court of Ne*
York, that in an action by the endorsee of a note, not void in its
creation, and endorsed before it became due, the consideration, as
between the previous parties to the note, could hot be inquired
into. In Russell v. Ball, 2 Johns. Rep. 50, a decision upon similar principles will be found. Cited, also,. Warren v. Lynch,
5 Johns. 339.
But it is contended on the part of the defendant, that later decisions by the Supreme Court of New York have established an
opposite principle; and that receiving a. note in payment of a preexisting debt is not~receiving it in the usual course of trade, nor
on a consideration which gives the endorsee any rights on the
paper beyond those of the endorser
The phrase, "usual course of trade," is rather vague and indefinite. It was once the usual course of "trade to ,pay debts, and it
should still be so. Most of the notes discounted at banks are
given for the renewal of notes to fall due, or for the payment of
pre-existing debts.
The later decisions of the Supreme Court of New York, referred to, are profe.ssedly founded on principles alleged to be decided
in the case of Bay v. Coddington, .5 Johns. Chancery Rep. 54, and
the same case under the name of Coddington v. Bay, decided in
the Court for the Correction of Errors of that state, on -appeal.
20 Johns. Rep. 637. This case does not sustain the position of
the defendant, It was decided by Chancellor Kent expressly
on the ground that "1the defendant did not receive the notes in
the coulrse of business," nor in-payment in part or in the whole
of any then existing debt. In the Court for the Correction of Errors the decision of Chancellor Kent was affirmed. In the case
of Ward et al. v. Howell. 9 Wend. 170, the note was not received
in payment, but as a security. The other cases referred to, Rowsa
v. Botherson, 10 Wend. 85; Ontario Bank v, Worthiington,
12 Wend. 593; and Payne v. Cutler, 13 Wend. 605, are all
founded on the principle laid down by Savage, Chief- Justice, in
'the Ontario Bank v. Worthington, "If the plaintiff fails he loses
,nothing, he is in the same situation as before he took the paper,

SUPREME COURT.
[Swif v. Tyson.]

and it was his fault if he did not inquire into the value of the
paper, and the defence against it; and all the cases assume that
the case of Coddington v. Bay, decided what it did not decide."
Whensoever a person receives a,note or bill in payment of a preexisting debt, he does lose something if he cannot collect the substitute he receives. He loses the debt. He does not stand in the
same situation as before he took the note or bill. The same parties holden on the old and extinguished evidence of debt, may be
on the new which he receives, and they may not. If, then, these
decisions of the Supreme Court of New York rest essentially on
the principle stated by Chief Justice Savage, they are not at war
with the law which is contended for in the present case.
For these reasons it is contended that the 34th section of the
judiciary act does not render it obligatory upon this Court to disregard its own decisions, and follow those of any Court of the
state of New York, upon a general -question like the present, not
affected by any statute of that state; although the bill of exchange
in question was drawn on the city of New York.
But if law is otherwise, it is submitted that the decisions of
the highest Court of the state is the Court for the Correction of
Errors. Gelson v.'Hoyt, 3 Wheaten, 248. In the Court of Errors of New York, the decision in Bay v. Coddington, has been
spoken of with disapprobation.
If there is any question of law, not local, but widely general
in its nature and effects, it is -the present question. It is one in
which foreigners, the citizens of different states, in their contests
with each other, nay, every nation of the civilized commercial world, are deeply interested. By all without the United
States, this-Court is looked to as the judiciary of the whole nation, known as the United States, whose commerce and transac,
tions are as widely diffused as is the use of bills of exchange.
The obvious and admitted wisdom of the thirty-fourth section of
the judiciary act, in reference to our excellent, but delicate and
complex system of government, if the section does not receive the
construction contended for) and v3hich it is believed the framers of
that act designed, will lose its nature and become folly; and the
section will, as it seems, be productive of mischiefs, in the experience and remembrance of which its benefits will be lost sight
of, if the principle urged on the part of the defendant shall prevail.

JANUARY TERM, 142.

9

[Swift v. Tyson.

How can this Court prpserve its control over the reason aid affections of the people of the United States; that control in which its
usefulness consists, and which its own untrammelled learning and
judgment would enable it naturally to maintain; if its records
show that it has decided-as it may be compelled to decide if the
construction of the section referred to, advocated on the part of
the defendant, is established-the same identical question, arising
on a bill of exchange, first one way, and thenthe other, with vacilating inconsistency? In'what light will the judicial character
of the United States appear abroad, under such circumstances.
In cases in which the Courts of the Unit - States have jurisdiction, by the Constitution. and laws of the United.States, tile
common mercantile law of the respective states applying to and
governing those cases, is .as much submitted to: the actual consciences and judgments of the minds of the judges who constitute those Courts, to be considered and declared, without respect
to the decision of any state Court, as binding authority, as the
same law, in cases where the United States Courts have not jurisdiction, is to the best judgment of the state Courts, without
respect to the decision of any Court of the United States, as binding authority. Congress, and Congressalone, has power -toregulate commerce between the states. But it will he impossible for
Congress to regulate commerce between the stqtes, if it be left to
state Courts to declare authoritatively in the abs .nce of any statute
upon the point, the force, and meaning of, and the right of parties
under that most important instrument of such commerce-the
bill of exchange; when drawn and held in and by a citizen of
one state, and accepted and payable in and by a citizen of an-other state.
Mr. Dana, for the defendant.
The first part of, the argument of Mr. Dana was upon the
question, whether the acceptance of the bill of exchange by the
defendant having been given in New York, the contract was not
to be xegulated by the laws of that state. This question was not
brought before the Court by the certificate of. division, and the
discussion of the point by the counsel of the defendant is therefore omitted.
Mr. Dana declined arguing the queston-wheth'er, by the laws

SUPREME COURT.
[Swift v. Tyson.]

of the state of"New York, the def~nee set up by the defendant
would have been admissible, as he did not suppose it arose; properly, upon the certificate of division.
He thought tlhe judges did not in fact divide upon that point;
butt, on the contrary,.they gave judgment on a case made by the
'plaintiff, to set aside the verdict for defendant; and upon elaborate
examination of all the decisions of the Courts of the state of New
York, that the defence was good; and the verdict ought not to be set
aside, if the laws of that state applied to the case.
Upon the question whether, by the thirty-fourth section of the
judiciary act of i789, the law of the state of New York must be
the rule of decision of this case; he argued, that under the injunctions of the section that "the laws of-the severai states, except
where the Constitution, treaties, or statutes shall otherwise provide or require, shall be regarded as rules of decision in trials at
common law in the Courts of the United States, in cases where
they apply," imposed on the Supreme Court an obligation, as
well to apply the decisions of the Courts of this state, as the statutes, to cases which come before this Court.
It was necessary to. adopt some system or code of law for the
administration of justice, by the newly-erected Courts of the
United States.
These Courts were anomalous in character, created by statute;
under the general provision of the Constitution of the United
States, limited in jurisdiction to certain subjects; and without rules
of decision in the cases that would arise.
To have attempted to create a code of laws by legislative
enactment, woula have been without present avail to the Courts;
and even with the aid of future experience and after years of
labour, could not be expected to be perfect.
The alternative was to adopt an existing system of laws. The
common law was sufficiently complete, and would have furnished
rules of decision for all cases, as well as modes of judicial proceedings; but it would have then been one system of law in the
Federal Courts, for the whole United States. It may be qtestioned whether the law of the place of the contract, although a
principle -.acognised by the common law, would have had effect
in reference to the several states. That principle has reference to
a foreign contract. But the territorial limit of the jurisdiction of

JANUARY TERM,1842.

11

[Swift vTY-oZL]

the Federal Courts would be one country and subject to one law.
Wherever within that limit the cause of action might arise, it
would be subject to the same administration of law by these
Courts when resorted to for the purpose of enforcing the right.
This would have led to perpetual confliction between the state
and Federal Courts.
Another objection would be, that the comxnpn law, however
perfect in its structure, still had many peculiarities not adapted to
the condition of things in this country,*and requiring to be modified to meet the exigencies of an enterprising people. Such modification had in fact taken place in all the states, in all of which,
at least those having an English origin, the common law had
been adopted or rather inherited. Instead therefore of the entire
body of the common law, with all its peculiarties, it could be
adopted as modified by the states, and by so doing, the Federal
Courts would be made to harmonize with -the state tribunals, and
the law of the place of contract. be preserved.
If the phraseology of the section in question be examined with
reference to the whole subject that Congress was to provide for,
it will be found substantially to express all that was necessary for
the adoption of the state laws to the eitent and for the purpose
we have supposed to have been had in -view. It is all the provision there is upon the subject; and in-so far as it falls short of
the adbption of laws for. the direction of the Cburts, the defect is
still unprovided for. The common law has never been otherwise
adopted, nor have the Courts power to create or adopt l aws--they
must administer the law as existing.
In support of this position it would be sufficient perhaps to refer
to the cases of The United States v. Worrall, 2 Dallas, 384; The
United States v. Burr, (opinion delivered by-the Chief Justice,
Sept. 3d, 1807;) The United States v. Hudson and Goodwin,
7 Cranch, 32 ; The United States. v. Coolidge, 1 Wheaton, 415.
In these cases,.it is true, the question was, whether the Courts
of, the United States. had jurisdiction of crimes and offences' at
common law,-which had not been provided for by the CoMtitution or laws of the United States; but they involved the general
question, whether the common law had been adopted: for if it
could be referred to at all, it was equally a source of jurisdiction
as it would be the rule of decision. 'Accordingly, in the discussion

12

SUPREME COURT.
(Swift v.Tyson.]

of the question, it was thought necessary to assume, in the utmost
latitude, that the common law was the basis of our federal jurisprudence, as it was of the several states; and the decision ought to
be regarded as coextensive with the ground upon which the jurisdiction was asserted,-and to have finally disposed of it.
Yet, as the Court were not unanimous, and the subject has
been since debated with much learning and zeal by distinguished
writers, (see Duponceau on the Jurisdiction of the Courts of the
United States; 1 Kent's Commentaries, 311, 322; North American Review, July No., 1825; 1 Story's Commentaries on the
Constitution, 141;) it may not be supererogatory to examine it
anew; as the question is now presented in a form that calls for a
specific and final decision of the whole matter.
It would seem to be a self-evident proposition, that the adoption of the common law must have been by the Constithition or
legislative enactment. Surely, the Courts could not of their own
authority establish as the law of the land, a foreign code or system, no matter how consonant with our political character, or how
famiiliar its principles. By the same authority they could as well
have adopted the civil law as existing in France or Holland as
the English law.
But, although it is conceded that there is no express recognition
or adoption of the co~imon law, either in the Constitution or laws
of the United States; it is contended that the Constitution presupposes, and is predicated upon the existence of the common law.
Justice Story, in The United States v. Coolidge, 1 Gal. 448; Bayard's Speech, Debates on the Judiciary in 1802, p. 372; North
American Review, before cited.
Mr. Justice Story refers to the provisions in the Constitution and
laws, in respect to trial by jury, the writ of habeas corpus, &c.,
as instances when recourse must be had to the common law for
the interpretation of terms. 1 Gal. 4S8.
These observations are just-but what is the conclusion therefrom? Because we have used the terms, have we thereby appropriated the entire common law, vand become- subject to its
authority? Do we not borrow terms in science and arts, without
being pledged to the principles to which they may have been applied? The physician derives his nomenclature from the Greek
language; but is his practice controlled by the false notions which

TANUARY TERM, 1842.

13

[Swift v.Tyson.]
those terms often indicate, or the theories of those who invented
them? The common law itself has borrowed terms of pleadings
and processes and familiar proverbs from the civil law, but do we
ook to the original for any supposed obligation? Our law idiom
is essentially of common" law origin, yet not foreign. It is the
language familiar to us in the jurisprudence of the respective
states. It is there assimildted-and modifleaI by our own circumstances and usages. In coming together from the respective
states, the framers of the Constitution, and our representatives
in Congress after them, must be regarded as having had in view
the language, laws, and institutions of the states which they represented. If, therefore, in the organization of the federal judiciary, a system of laws is presupposed, it is the American law,
which is now as distinct in its character as the English or French;
yet, as it is not uniform in the states, the adoption of it in the
Federal Courts would be necessarily subject to some legislative
provision, as to the cases and circumstances to which the law
should be applicable. The general language of the law would,
however, obviously occur, and be used in any legislation upon
the subject, without the necessity of definition as might be required, if some foreign code or any of its provisions were to be
transferred and appropriated, like the Athenian law, which was
transmuted in a mass by the Romans, into the twelve tables.
But it is said that some of the provisions of the Constitution can
take effect only by recourse to the common law, as the clause in
article 3, section 2, extending the judicial- power to all casesi in
law and equity, arising under the Constitution, &c., and to admiralty and maritime jurisdiction. The laws and practices of the
states, it is argued, cannot be referred to here, because in many
of them no equity jurisprudence existed, and the maritime law
of the states is supposed to have been too imperfect and unsettled
to furnish any basis for that department of law. 1 Gal. 488.
To this it may be answered, that although in some of the states
there were no equity tribunals distinct from the common law
Courts, yet the principles of equity, as distinguished from those
of common law, were perfectly understood in every state, and
were in fact administered, although in some of them without the
aid of a Court of Chancery. The present organization of the
Federal Courts in fact conforms with the usage of those very
VOL. XVI.-B

14

SUPREME COURT.
[Swift v. Tyson.]

states where this defect of equity power is supposed to exist
there is an equity jurisprudence fully carried into effect, without
separate Courts of Equity.
As to the maritime jurisdiction and course of proceeding,&
was sufficiently settled; for the proceedings of our Courts in the
exercise of that jurisdiction, are regulated now, not by the English admiralty law, but by the practice in our own country,
engrafted on the English. 10 Wheaton, 473.
, Mr. Dana cited the debates on the Constitution of the United,
States in the Convention of Virginia and in other states to show
that without the aid of a statute the common law cannot be called
in aid of the jurisdiction of- the Courts, or for rules of decision as
to the necessity of -legislation for the authority and manner of
proceeding in the Courts of the United States; he cited the opinion. of Mr. Justice Iredell'in Chisholm's Executors v. The State
of Georgia, 2 Dallas, 432. That the provisions .of the twentyfourth section are not confined to "statutes," he cited, as decided
in this Court, Jackson v. Chew,, 12 Wheaton, 153; Henderson
and wife v. Griffin, 5 Peters, 151 ; Green v. Neal, 6 Peters, 291;
The United States v. Wanson, 1 Gallison, 5; Van Reimsdyke v.
Kine qt al., 1 Gallison, 371.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This cause comes before us from the Circuit Court of the 4outhem district -of New York, upon a certificate of division of the
-judges of that Court.
The action wasbrought bytheplaintiff, Swift, as endorsee, against
the defendant, Tyson, as acceptor, upon a bill of exchange dated at
Portland, Maine, on the first day of May, 18§6, for the sum of
one thousand five hundred andforty dollars, thirty,cents, payable
six months after date and grace, drawn by one Nathaniel Norton
and one Jairus S. Keith upon and ccepted by Tyson) at the city
of New York; in favour of the order of Nathaniel Norton, and
by Norton endorsed to the plaintiff. The bill was dishonoured
at maturity.
At the trial the acceptance aid endorsement 'of the bill were
admitted, and the plaintiff there rested his case. The 'defendant
then introduced in evidence the answer of Swift to i bill of discovery, by which it appeared that Swift took the bilr before it

JANUARY TIERM, 1842.

15

[Swift v.TysdL]
became due, in payment of a promissory note due to him by Norton and-Keith; that he understood that the bill was accepted in
part payment of some lands sold by Norton to a company'in New
York; that. Swift was a bong fide holder of the bill, not having
any notice of any thing in the sale or title to the lands, or otherwise, impeaching the transaction, and with the full belief that the
bill was justly due. The particular circumstances are fully set
forth in the answer in the record; but-it does not seem necessary
farther to, state them. The defendant then offered to prove, that
'the oill was accepted by the defendant as part consideration for
the purchase of certain lands in the state of Maine, which Norton
and Keith represented themselves to be the owners of,.and also
repreented to -be of great value, and contracted to convey a good
title thereto; and that the representations were in every respect
fraudulent and false, and Norton and Keith had no title to the
lands, and that the same were of little or no value. The plaintiff objected to the admission of such testimony, or of any testimony, as against him, impeaching or showing a failure of the
consideration, on which the bill was acdepted, under the fact§ admitted by the defendant, and those proved by him,'by'6ading the
answer of the plaintiff to the bill of discovery. The judges of
the Circuit Court thereupon divided in opinion upon the following
point or luestion of law; Whether, under the facts last mentioned,
the defendant *as entitled to the same defenc.e to the action as
if the suit was between the original paxties to the bill, that is'to
say, Nortop, 9t. Norton and Jeith, and the.defendant; and'whe .
ther the evidpnce, so offered was admissible as "gainst the plaintiff in the action. And this is the question certified to us for our
decision.
There is no doubt, that a bong fide holder of a negotiable instrument for a valuable consideration, without any notice of facts
which impeach its validity as between the, antecedent parties, if
he takes it under an endorsement made.before the same bpcomes
due, holds the title unaffected 'by these fi .sandmay recover
thereon, although as between the antecedent parties the transaction may be withoit any legal.validity.. This is a doctrine so
long -dnd so well established, and so .essential to -the security of
negotiable paper, that it is laid up among the findamental of the
law; ud-requires no authority or reasoning to be now brought

16

SUPREME COURT.
[Swift v. Tyson.]

in its support. As little doubt is there, that the holder of any
negotiable paper, before it is due, is not bound to prove that he is
a bona fide holder for a valuable consideration, without notice;
for the law will presume that, in the absence oi all rebutting
proofs, and therefore it is incumbent upon the defendant to establish by way of defence satisfactory proofs of the contrary, and
thus to overcome the prima facie title of the plaintiff.
In the present case, the plaintiff is a bona fide holder without
notice for what the law deems a good and valid consideration,
that is, for a pre-existing debt; and the only real question in the
cause is, whether,under the circumstances of the present case, such
a pre-existing debt constitutes a valuable consideration in the
sense of the general rule applicable to negotiable instruments.
We say, under the circumstances of the present case, for the acceptance having been made in'New York, the argument on
behalf of the defendant is, that the contract is to be treated as a
New York contract, and therefore to be governed by the laws of
New York, as expounded- by its Courts, as well upon geneial
principles, as by the express provisions of the thirty-fourth section
of the judiciary act of 1789, ch. 20. And then it is further contended, that by the law of New York, as thus expounded by its
Courts, a pre-existing debt does not constitute, in the sense of the
general rule, a valuable consideration applicable to negotiable
instruments.
In the first place, then, let us examine into the decisions of the
Courts of New York upon this subject. In the earliest case,
Warrcu v. Lynch, 5 Johns. R. 289, the Supreme Court of New
York appear to have held, that a pre-existing debt was a sufficient
consideration to entitle a bona fide holder without notice to recover the amount of a note endorsed to him, which might not, as
between the original parties, be valid. The same doctrine was
affirmed by Mr. Chancellor Kent in Bay v. Coddington, 5 Johns.
Chan. Rep. 54. Upon that occasion' he said, that negotiable
paper can be assigned or transferred by an agent or factor or by
any other person, fraudulently, so as to bind the true owner as
against the holder, provided it be taken in the usual course of
trade, and for a fair and valuable consideration without hotice of
the fraud. But he added, that the holders in that case were not
entitled to the benefit of the rule, because it was not negotiated to

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

17

[Swift v. Tyson.]
them in the usual course of business or trade, nor in payment of
any antecedent and existing debt, nor for cash, or property advanced, debt created, or responsibility incurred, on the strength
and credit of the notes; thus directly affirming, that a pre-existing
debt was a fair and valuable consideration within the protection
of the general rule. And he has since affirmed the same doctrine,
upon a full review of it, in his Commentaries, 3 Kent. Comm.
sect. 44, p. 81. The decision in the case of Bay v. Coddington
was afterwards affirmed in the Court of Errors, 20 Johns. R. 637,
and the general reasoning of the chancellor was fully sustained.
There were indeed peculiar circumstances in that case, which the
Court seem to have considered as entitling it to be treated as
an exception to the general rule, upon the ground either because
the receipt of the notes was under suspicious circumstances, the
transfer having been made after the known insolvency of the
endorser, or because the holder had received it as a mere security
16r contingent responsibilities, with which the holders had not
then become charged. There was, however, a considerable
diversity of opinion among the members of the Court, upon that
occasion, several of them holding that the decree aught to be ieversed, others affirming that a pr6-existing debt was a valuable
consideration, sufficient to protect the holders, and others again
insisting, that a pre-existent debt was not sufficient. From that
period, however, for a series of years, it seems to have been held
by the Supreme Court of the state, that a pre-existing debt was
not a sufficient consideration to shut out the equities of the original parties in favour of the holders. But no case to that effect has
ever been decided in the Court of Errors. The cases cited at the
bar, and especially Roosa, v. Brotherson, 10 Wend. R. 85; The
Ontario Bank v. Worthington, 12 Wend. R. 593; and Payne v.
Cutler, 13 Wend. R. 605, are directly in point. But the more recent cases, The Bank of Salina v. Babcock, 21 Wend. R. 490, and
The Bank of Sandusky v. Scoville, 24 Wend. R. 115, have greatly
shaken, if they have not entirely overthrown those decisions, and
seem to have brought back the aoetrine to that promulgated in
the earliest cases. So.that, to say the least of it, it admits of
serious doubt, whether any doctrine upon this question can at
the present'time be treated as finally established; and it is certain,
B2
3

SUPREME COURT.
[Swift v. Tyson.]

that the Court of Errors have not pronounced any positive opinion upon it.

But, admitting the doctrine to be fully settled in New York, it
remains to be considered, whether it is obligatory upon this Court.
if it differs from the principles established in the general commercial law. It is observable that the Courts of Ne~w York do not
found their decisions upon this point upon any localstatute, or
positive, fixed, or ancient local usage: but they deduce the doctrine from the general principles of c6mmercial law. It is, however, conten4ed, that the thirty-fourth section of the judiciary act
of 1789, ch. 20, furnishes a rule obligatory upon this Court to
follow the decisions of the state tribunals in all cases to which
they apply. That section -provides "that the laws of the several
states, except where the Constitution, treaties, or statutes of the
United States shall o therwvise require or provide, shall be regarded as rules of decision in trials at common law in the Courts
of the United States, in cases where they apply." In order to
maintain the argument, it is essential, therefore, to hold, that the
word "laws," in this section, inbludes within the scope of its
meaning the decisions of the local tribunals. In the ordinary use
of language it will hardly be contended that the.decisions of Courts
constitute laws. They are, at most, only evidence of what the
laws are; and are not of themselves laws. They are ofteii reexamined, reversed, and qualified by the Courts themselves,
whenever they are found to be either defective, or ill-founded, or
otherwise incorrect. The laws of a state are more usually understood to mean the rules and enactments promulgated by the
legislative authority thereof, or long established. local customs
having the force of laws. '[n all the various cases which have
hitherto come before us for decision, jhis Court have uniformly
supposed, that the true interpretation of the thirty-fourth section
limited its application to state laws strictly local, that is to say, to
,the positive statutes of the state, and the construction thereof
adopted" by the local ,tribunals, and to rights and titles to things
having a permanent locality, .such as the rights and titles to real
estate, and other matters immovable and, intraterritorial in their
nature and character. It never has been supposed by us, that
the section did apply, or was designed to apply, to questions of a
more general naturei not ats'all dependent upon local statutes or'

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

19

[S!wft v.Tyon.]
local usages of a fixed and permanent operation, as, for example,
to the construction of ordinary contracts or other written instruments, and especially to questions of general commercial law,
where the state tribunals are called upon to perform the ike
'functions as ourselves, that is, to ascertain upon general reason-'
ing and legal analogies, what is the true exposition of the contract
or instrument, or what is the just rule furnished by the principles
of commercial law to govern the case. And we have not now
the slightest difficulty in holding, that this section, upon its true
intendment and constrtion, is strictly limited to local statutes
and, local usages of the character before stated, and does not extend to contracts and other instruments of a commercial-nature,
the true interpretation and effect whereof are to be sought, not
in the decisions of the local tribunals, but in the general principles
and doctrines of commercial jurisprudence. Undoubtedly, the
decisions of the local tribunals upon such subjects are entitled to,
and will receive, the most deliberate attention and respect of this
Court; but they cannot furnish positive rules' or conclusive authority, by which our own judgments are to be bound up and
governed. The law respecting negotiable instruments may be
truly declared in the language of Cicero,. adopted'by Lord Mansfield in Luke v. Lyde, 2 Blurr. R. 883;*887, to be in a great measure, not the law of a single country only, but of the commercial
world. Non erit alia lex Romee, alia Athenis, alia nune, alia
posthae, sed et apud omnes gentes, et omni tempore, una eadem-.
que lex obtenebit.
It becomes necessary for us, therefore, upon the present occasion to express our own opinion of the true result of the commercial law upon the question now before us. And we have no
hesitation in saying, that a pre-existing debt does constitute a
valuable consideration in the sense of the general rule already
stated, as applicable to negotiable instruments. Assuming it to
be true, (which, however, may well admit of some doubt from
the generality of the language,) that the holder of a negotiable
instrument is unaffected with, the equities between the antecedent parties, of which he hab no notice, only where he receives.it
in the usual course of trade and business for a valuable consideration, before it becomes due; we are prepared to say, that
receiving it in payment of, or as security for-a pre-existing deltt,

20

SUPREME COURT.
[Swift t. Tyson.]

is according to -the known usual course of trade and business.
And why upon principle should not a pre-existing debt be deemed
such a valuable consideration? It is for the benefit and convenience of the commercial world to give as wide an extent as
practicable tothe credit and circulation of negotiable
paper, that
it may pass not only as security for new purchases and advances,
made upon the transfer thereof, but also in payment of and as
security for pre-existing debts. The creditor is thereby enabled
to realize or to secure his debt, and thus may safely give a prolonged credit, or forbear from taking any legal steps to enforce
his rights. The debtor also has the. advantage of making his
negotiable securities of equivalent value to cash. But establish
the opposite conclusion, that negotiable paper cannot be applied in
payment of or as security for pre-existing debts, without lettingin all
the equities between-the original and antecedent parties, aid the
value and circulation of such securitiesmust be essentially diminished, and the debtor driven to the embarrassment of making a sale
thereof, often at a ruinous discount, to some third person, and then
by circuity to apply the proceeds to ihe paymentof his debts. What,
indeed, upon such a doctrine would become of that large class of
cases, where new notes are given by the same or by other parties,
by. way of renewal or security to banks, in lieu of old securities
discounted by them, which have arrived at maturity? Probably
more than one-half of all bank transactions in our country, as
well as those of other countries, are of this nature. The doctrine
would strike a fatal blow at all discounts of negotiable securities
for pre-existing debts.
This question has been several times before this Court, and it
has beei uniformly held, that it makes no difference whatsoever
as to the rights of the holder, whether the debt for which the negotiable instrument is transferred to him is a pre-existing debt, or
is contracted at the time of the transfer. In each case he equally
gives credit to the instrument. The cases of Coolidge v. Payson,
o Wheaton, R. 66, 70, 73, and Townsley v. Sumrall, 2 Peters, R.
170, 182, are directly in point.
In England the same doctrine has been uniformly acted upon.
As long ago as the case of Pillans ard Rose v. Van Meirop and
Hopkins, 3 Burr. 1664, the very point was made and the objectibn was overruled. That, indeed, was a case of far more stringency

J.N.XUARY TERM, 1842.

21

[Swift v Tyison.1
thari the one now before us; for the bill of exchange, t]here drawn
in discharge-of a pre-existing debt, was held to bind the party as
acceptor, upon a mere promise made by him to accept before the
bill was actually drawn. Upon that occasion Lord Mansfiela,
likening the cage to that of a letter of credit, said, that a letter of
credit may be given for money already advanced, as well as for
money to be advanced in future: and the whole Court held the
plaintiff entitled to recover. From that period downward there
is not a single case to be found in Englaid in which it has ever
been held by'the Court, that a pre-existing debt was not a valuable consideration, sufficient to protect the holder, within-the meanmg of the general rule, although incidental dicta have been
sometimes relied on to establish the contrary, such as the dictum
of Lord Chief Justice Abbott in Smith v. De Witt, 6 Dowl. &
Ryland, 120, and De la Chaumette v. The. Bank of England,
9 Barn. & Cres. 209, where, however, the decision turned upon
very different considerations.
Mr. Justice Bayley, in his valuable *ork on bills of exchange
and promissory notes, lays down the rule in ihe most general
terms. "The want of consideration,'" says he, "in oto or in-phrt,
cannot be insisted on,. if the plaintiff or. any intermediate party
between 'him and the defendant took the bill or note bong fide
and upon a valid consideration." Bayley on Bills, p. 499, 500, •
5th London edition, -1830. It is bbservable that he here uses
the words "valid consideration," obviously intending to make
the disiinctioh, that it is not intended to apply solely to cases,
where a present consideration for advances of money on goods
or otherwise takes place at the time of the transfer and upon the
credit thereof, And in thishe is fully borne out by the authorities. They go farther, and establish, that a transfer as security for
past, and even for future responsibilities, will,-for-this purpose, be
a sufficient, valid, and valuable consideration. Thus, in the case
of Bosanquet v. Dudmaii, 1 Starkie, R. 1, it was held by.Lord
Ellenborough, that if-a banker be under acceptances to an amount
beyond the cash balance in his hands, every bill he holds of that
customer's, bong fide, he is to be considered as holding for value;
and it makes no difference-though he hold other collateraL securities, more than sufficient to cover the excess of his acceptances.

SUPREME COURT.
Tftil Tykon.]

The same doctrine was affirmed by Lord Eldon in Ex parte
Blotiham, 8 Yes. 541, as equally- apmlicable to past and to future
aiceptances. The subsequent cases.of Heywood v. Watson,
.4 Bing. R. 496, and Bramah v. Roberts, 1 Bing. New Ca. 469,
and Percival v.Frampton, 2 Cromp. M es. & Rose, 180, are to
the same -effect. .They directly establish that a bong fide holder,
taking a negotiable note in payment of or as security for a preexisting debt, is, a holder for a valuable consideration, entitled to
protection against all the equities between- the antecedent parties.
And these are the latest decisions, which out researches have
enabled us to ascertain- t? have- been made in the English Courts
upon this subject.
In the American Courts, so far as we have been able to trace the
decisions, the same doctrine seems -generally but not universally
to'pr~vail In-Brush v. Scribner, 11 Conn. R. 388, the Supren~e
Court of Connecticut, after an elaborate review of the English
atid New York adjudications, held, upon general principles of
commercial law, that a pre-existing debt was a valuable consideration., sufficient to convey a valid title to a bong 'fide'holder against
all the antecedent parties to a negotiable note. There is'no reason
to doubt, that the game rule has been adopted and constantly adhered to in Massehusetts ; and certainlV there is no trace to bE
found to the contrary. In truth, in the silence of any adjudi
cations upon the subject, in a case of such frequent and almost.
daily occurrence in the commercial states, it may fairly be presumed, that whatever constitutes a, valid and valuable consideration in other cases of contract to supp6rt titles of the"most solemn
nature; is held A fortiori -to be sufficient in cases of negotiable
instruments, as indispensable to the security of holders, and the
facility and safety of their circulation. Be this as it may,.we
entertain no doubt, that a'bona fide holder, for. a.pre-existing debt,
of a negotiable instrument, is not affected by any equities between
the antecedent parties, where he has received the same before it
became duf, without notice of any such equities. We are all,
therefore, of opinion, that the question on this point, propounded by
the Circuit Court for our consideration, ought to be answered in
the negative; and we shall accordingly direct it so to be certified
to the Circuit Court.

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

23

(Swift v..Tyson.]
Mr. Justice CATRon
said:
Upon the point of difference between the judges below, I
concur, that the extinguishment of a debt, and the giving a post
consideration, such as the record presents, will protect the purchaser and assignee of a negotiable note from the infirmity affecting the instrument before it Was negotiated. But I am unwilling
to sanction the introduction into the opinion of this Court, a doctrine aside from the case made by the record, or argued by the
counsel, assuming to maintain, that a negotiable note or bill
pledged as collateral security for a previous debt, is taken by the
creditor in the due course of trade; and that he stands on the foot
of"him who purchases in the market for money, or takes the instrument in extinguishment of a previous debt. State Courts of
high authority on commercial questions, have held otherwise;
and that they will yield to a mere expression of opinion of this
Court, or change their course of decision in copformity to the
recent English cases referred to in the principal opinion, is improbable: whereas, if the question was permitted to.rest until it fairly
arose, the decision of it either way by this Court, probably, would,
"and I thiink ought to settle it. As such a result is not to be 'expected from the opinion-in this cause, I am unwilling to embarrass myself with so much of it as treats of negotiable instruments
taken as- a pledge. I never heard this question spoken of as
belonging to the case, until the principal opinion was presented
last evening; and therefore I am not prepared to give- any opinion, even was it calledfor by the record.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
recoid from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the southern distxict of New York, and on the point and question on which
the judges of the said Circuit Court wete opposed in opinion, and
which were certified to this Court for its opinion, agreeably to the
act of Congress in such case made and provided, and was argued
by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is .the opinion of this
Court, that the defendant was not, under the facts stated, entitled
to the same defence to the action as if the suit was between the
original parties to the bill; that Is to say, the said Norton or the
said Norton and Keith and the aefendant: and that the evidence

24

SUPREME COURT.
[Swift v. Tyson.)

offered in defence and objected to, was not admissible as against
the plaintiff in this action. Whereupon it is now here ordered
and adjudged by this Court, that an answer .in the negative be
certified to the said Circuit Court.

