JANUARY TERM, 1842.

THE

UNITED

STATES, APPELLANT,

143

v. JOHN BREWAtDw, AP-

PELLEE.
Florida land claim. Breward petitioned the Governor of East Florida, intending to
establish a saw-mill to saw lumber on St. John's river, for a grant of five miles
square of land, or its equivalent; ten thousand acres to be in the neighbourhood of'
the place designated, and the remaining six thousand acres in Cedar Swamp, on the
west side of St. John's river, and in Cabbage Hammock, on the east side of the river.
The governor granted the land asked for, on the condition that the mill shonId be
built; and the condition was complied with. On the 27th of May, 1817, the surveyor-general surveyed seven thousand acres under the grant, including Little Cedar
Creek, and bounded on three sides by Big Cedar Creek, including the mill. This
grant and survey were confirmed.
Three thousand acres were laid off on the northern part of the river St. John's, and
east of the Royal Road, leading from the river to St. Mary's, four or five miles from
the first survey. This survey having been made at a place not within the grant, was
void; but the Court held that grantee is to be allowed to survey under the grant
three thousand acres adjoining the survey of seven thousand acres, if so much vacant
land can be found; and patents for the same shall issue for the land, if laid out in conformity with the decree of the Court in this case.
In 1819, two thousand acres were surveyed in Cedar Swamp, west of the river St.
John's, at a place known by the name of Sugar Town. This survey was confirmed.
Four thousand acres, by survey, dated April, 1819, in Cabbage Hammocki were laid
out by the surveyor-general. This survey was confirmed.
By the eighth article of the Florida Treaty, all grants of lands made before the 24th of
January, 1824, by his Catholic Majesty, were confirmed; but all grants made since
the time, when the first proposal by his majesty for the cession of the country
was made, are declared and agreed by the treaty to be void. The survey of five
thousand acres having been made at a different place from the land granted, would,
if confirmed, be a new apprdpriation of so much land, and void, if it had been ordered
by the Governor of Florida; and of course it is void, having nothing to uphold it
but the act of the surveyor-general. Cited, 10 Peters, 309.
In the Superio Court of East Florida, the counsel for the claimant offered to introduce
testimony in regard to the survey of three thousand acres; and the counsel of the
United States withdrew his objections to the testimony. The admission of the evidene did not prove the survey to have been made. Proof of the signature of the
surveyor-general to the return of sur'ey, made the survey primal facie evidence. Cited,
Mrs. Wiggins's Case, 14 Peters, 346.
The proof of the signature of Agnilar to the certificate of a copy of the grant by th
Governor of East Florida, authorizes its admission in evidence; but this does not
establish the validity of the concession. To test the validity of the survey, it was
necessary to give it in evidence; but the survey did not give a good title to the land.
The United States have a right to disprove a survey made by the surveyor-general, if
the survey on the ground does not correspond to the land granted.

144

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Breward.]

ON appeal from the Superior Court of East Florida.
The claim is founded on a petition of Breward, dated 23d
August, 1816, and an alleged decree of Governor Coppinger
The, petition states, that
thereon, dated the following day.
for the supply of
to
saw
lumber
a
mill
intends
to
establish
"he
commerce and the province, which he wishes to situate upon St.
John's river, on the creek known by the name of Little Cedar
Creek; and whereas said costly fabric requires to secure in lands
and timber wha may be sufficient to cover the great expenses
and it being all for the benefit
which are necessary to build it,
of the province, he prays that there may be granted to him the
usual five miles square of land, or its equivalent, destining to him
ten thousand acres in the neighbourhood of said place, and the
remaining six thousand acres in Cedar Swamp, on the west side
of St. John's river, and in Cabbage Hammock, on the east side
of said river."
Governor Coppinger's decree on this petition states, that, "in
consideration of the benefit and advantages which ought to result
in favour of the province, if what the interested proposes is
effected, the lands and permission which he solicits are granted
to him; but with the express condition, that he shall not have the
absolute right to them until he erects said machine."
The original of the petition and decree were not produced in
evidence; -neither were they to be found in the archives at St.
Augustine : but a certified copy, under the hand of Thomas de
Aguilar, secretary of the government, whose handwriting was
proved, stating that they were true copies, faithfully taken from
the original which existed in his office, was offered, and was
objected to by the district attorney, and admitted by the Court.
There was also offered -in evidence plats and certificates of
survey, made for John Breward, by George J.F. Clark, surveyorgeneral:
1. Dated 27th May, 1817, for seven thousand acres of laud
between the branches called Cedar Creek, and Dunn's Creek, on
the northern part of the river St. John's.
2. Dated 28th August, 1819, for three thousand acres on the
northern part of the river St. John's, and east of the Royal Road
leading from said river to St. Mary's.

XANUARY TERM, 1842.

145

(The United States v. Breward.]

3. Dated loth October, 1819, for two thousand acres in-Cedar
Swamp, on the west part of the river St. John's, at a place known.
by the name of Sugar Town.
4. Dated 19th April, 1820, for four thousand acres, in Cabbage
Hammock, on the east part of the river St. John's, and south of
the branch .called Dunn's Creek, which runs from Dunn's Creek
to the said river.
After hearing testimony in the cause, the Superior Court made
a decree in favour of the claimants for. the four tracts of land;
from which the present appeal is taken
For the United States, it was contended that the decree should
be reversed, because:
1. That there was not sufficient evidence that the said alleged
grant or conunission ivas ever made by Governor Coppinger.
2. That the alleged concession, if made, was on a condition
precedent, which was never fulfilled.
3. That the concession, if ever made,did not contemiplate that the
lands conceded should be surveyed in four different tracts or parcels.
4. That the description of the lands in the grant are too vague
to be the foundation of a valid survey.
5. That the plats and certificates of survey do not conform to
the description of the lands in -the said pretended grant.
The case was argued by Mr. Legare, the attorney-general, for
the appellants; and by Mr. Wilde, for the appellee.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the Court.
The petitioner asked five miles square of land, being sixteen
thousand acres, on Little Cedar Creek, of St. John's river; he intending to" establish a mill to saw'lumber. Ten thousand acres
were asked for in the neighbourhood of the place; and the remaining six thousand acres, in Cedar Swamp, on the west side
of St. John's river, and in Cabbage Hammock, on the east side
of that river.
On the 20th of August, 1816, the Governor of Florida decreed
the same, on the condition the mill was built. The condition
was cpmplied with.
1. On the 27th of May, 1817, George F. Clark, the surveyorgeneral of the province, surveyed for Breward seven thousand
19
VOL. XVI.-N

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Breward.]

acres, including Little Cedar Creek; and bounded on three sides
by Big Cedar Creek and Dunn's Creek; and which includes the
mill. This survey is valid.
2. There were laid off three thousand acres on the northern
part of the river St. John's, and east of the Royal Road, leading
from the river to St. Mary's. This survey is proved to lie four
or five miles frem the first survey, and is on Front Creek. It was
made the 28th of August, 1819.
By the eighth article of the Florida Treaty, all grants of land
made before the 24th of January, 1818, by his Catholic Majesty,
were confirmed. But all grants made since the 24th of January,
18i8, when the first proposal by his majesty was made for the
cession of the cquntry, are declared and agreed by the treaty to
be null and void. This survey having been made at a different
place from the land granted, would, it confirmed, be a new appropriation of so much land; and void, if it had been ordered by
the Governor of Florida, and, of course, it is void, having nothing to uphold it but the act of the surveyor-general. So this
Court held in Seton's case, 10 Peters, 309. The party, however,
is entitled to his entire ten thousand acres in the neighbourhood
of Little Cedar Creek. The decree confirming the three thousand
acre survey, is therefore reversed; and this quantity of land will
be ordered by the Superior Court of East Florida, to be surveyed
adjoining the seven thousand acre survey, on vacant land; the
addition to conform to the fourth article of the instructions to the
surveyor-general, of the 10th of June, 1811, (Land Laws United
States, 1004.) The'seven thousand acres, and the three thousand
acres, will be laid down in comiection, as one ten thousand acre
survey. Not more than one-third can be bounded in front on the
river St. John's,- should the claimant choose to add the three
thousand acres next to either side of the seven thousand acre tract
adjoining the river. The seven thousand acre survey being three
hundred and sixty chains deep, the ten thousand acres can only
front one humdred and twenty chains.
A motion was made to the Court below, on the part of the
petitioner, tobe permitted to introduce testimony in regard to the
survey of three thousand acres; when offered, thi counsel for the
United States withdrew the objections to the introduction of the
paper.

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

147

[The United States v. Breward.]

It is now insisted for complainant, that the validity and legality
of the survey was admitted; and Richard's Case, 8 Peters, 470.;
Sibbald's Cse, 10 Peters, 323; and Seton's Case, 10 Peters, 309,
are relied upon.
These authorities, we think, do not sustain the argument. It
being necessary to establish that such a survey had been made
by the surveyor-general, proof of his signature was prima facie
sufficient to authorize the reading of the paper; and if the attorney of the United States was satisfied that the plat and certificate
had been made by that officer, (about which he could hardly -be
mistaken.) to require proof of the fact would have been useless.
The contests on Aguilar's cdrtificates have been numerous.
Nothing was required but proof of the secretary's signature to
admit in evidence the copy of the concession; so this Court held
in Mrs. Wiggin's Case, 14 Peters, 346: but when the concession
was admitted, its legality was not conceded by the defendant: no
such ground has been, to our recollection, assumed, nor do we
think it can be assumed iii regard to the survey. To test its
legality by the laws and regulations of Spain, it was necessary the
Court should have the survey in evidence. It was the common
case of the competency of a title paper, wanting legal effect: the
Court, therefore, properly admitted the paper, but improperly
adjudged it gave title to the land.
3. The next survey (dated in 1819) is for two thousand acres
in Cedar Swamp, west of the river St. John?'s, at a place known
under the name of Sugar Town. Had this last designation been
left out, no difficulty could be raised in regard to the fact that the
survey had been located at the place granted; nor do we think
this makes any difference, although a witness proves he knew
nothing of"such a town.
The surveyor having described the land-as laid off within the
description of the grant, we take the fact to be prima facie, as he
certifies it; nor do we think the certificate discredited by the further description, even should the object called for not be found.
This survey is therefore confirmed.
4. The survey for four thousand acres, (dated in April 1819,)
is in Cabbage Hammock, and within the grant, taking the certificate of the surveyor-general, to be prima facie true. And this,
we think, is the credit that lawfully attaches to it. His duties

148

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Breward]

were prescribed by the instructions to him, in 1811, (Land Laws,
1034;) and if his plot and certificate are lawful on their face,
they must be accredited, until the United States disprove them;
which they have the right to do, if the survey on the ground does
not, in fact, correspond to the land granted; although the certificate may declare it to be at the proper place. This survey is also
confirmed.
The ca~ise is, however, remanded to the Court below, to be
further proceeded in, as regards the rejedted survey of three
thousand acres.

