JANUARY TERM, 1842.

TaE tNITED STATES, APPELLANTS,

153

V. PEDRO MIRANDA'AND'

OTHERS, APPELLEES.

A Florida land claim. On a petition from Pedro Miranda, stating arvices'performea by
him for Spain, Governor White, the Governor of East Florida, o5 the 26th, November, 1810, made a grant to him ofeight leagues square, or three hundred qnd sixty-eight
thousand bix hundred and forty acres of land on the waters ofHillsborough and Tampa
bays, in the eastern district of Florida. No survey was made under this grant while
Florida remained a province of Spain; nor was any attempt made to occupy or
survey the land, until after the cession of Florida to the United States. In 1821,
it was alleged that a survey was made by a surveyor of East Florida. Held, that
the grant was void; no land having been severed from the public domain previous
to the 24th January, 1818, and because the calls of thejgrant are too .indefinite for
locality to be given to them.
Cited, Percheman's Case, 7 Peters, 51; Kingsley's Case, 12 Peters, 476 ; Arredendo's
.Case, 6 Peters, 741; Forbes's Case, 15 Peters, 182; Buyck's Case, 15 Peters, 215;
O'Harra's Case, 15 Peters, 275; Delespine's Case, 15 Peters, 319.
The settled doctrine of the Supreme Court, in respect to Florida grants, is, that grants
embracing a wide extent of country, or with a large area ofnatural or artificial boundaries, and which granted lands were not surveyed before the 24th of January, 1818,
and which are without such designation as will give a place of beginning for a survey, are not%lands withdrawn from the mass of vacant lards ceded to the United
States in Florida, and are void; as well on that account as forbeing so uncertain
that locality cannot be given to them.

ON appeal from the Superior.Court of East Florida.
Pedro Miranda and others, on the 9th of May, 1629, prese ted
a petition, to the Superior Court of East Florida, asking for the
confirmati6n of a grant from the Spanish government of Florida,
for eight leagues square, equal to three hundred and sixty-eight
thousand six hundred and forty acres of land, situate on the-waters of Hillsborough and Tampa bays, in the eastern district of the
territory of Florida.
The petition of Pedro Miranda and the grant, are as follow:
TRANSLATION.

His Excellehcy the Governor:
Don Pedro Miranda, second pilot of the launch of the bar of
this port, with the most profound respect represents to your excellency :
That he has the honour to serve his Catholic majesty [whom
20

SUPREME COURT.
tThe United States v. Miranda.]

may God preserve] from the year 1798, when he was employed
as rower of the said launch, in which capacity he remained until
he was promoted to his present post, on account of his known
merits and experience. Moreover, your excellency well knows
the veracity of his good conduct, fidelity, and devotion to the
service of his majesty; of which he has given proofs in various
expeditions, which by order of his government your petitioner
undertook along the water courses of this'province, when it was
overrun by rebels; and as for so distinguished services and others
rendered to the satisfaction of your excellency, your petitioner
has not received any compensation whatever; and as he finds
himself in a penurious condition, and without any other expectations but from the protection of your excellency; there'fore he
supplicates your excellency to be pleased, in remuneration of all
which he has represented, and in consideration of his Iresent
destitute situation, to grant to him in absolute property, a square
of eight leagues in the royal lands which are found on the waters
of Hillsborough and Tampa bays, in this province, in: virtue of
royal orders on the subject of granting lands gratuitously to Spanish subjects; which favour your petitioner hopes to receive from
the justice of your excellency. St. .1lugustine of Florida, 19th
November, 1810.
DECREE.

St- .ugustine of Florida,26th November, 1810.
The merits and services alleged by this party being well known
to this government, I grant to him in the terms which he solicits,
the said quantity of land in the places which he indicates, without prejudice to a third party; and as a proof of this grant to be
shown at all times, let a certified copy of this proceeding be
issued-to him from the secretary's office -forhis security.
WHITE.

The petition to the Court stated that said tract or parcel of
land has been divided and laid off into townships of twenty-three
thousand and forty acres each; that the said division of the said
land into townships, as aforesaid, was made hy one Charles Vignoles, in the "ear one thousand eight hundred and twenty-one;
the said Charles Vignoles then being-a surveyor of East Florida.
After hearing testimony and arguments of counsel, the Superior Court of East Florida gave a pro Porm decree in favour of'

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

155

(The Daited States v.M and4

the petitioners, for eight leagues qudre, being forty-six thousand
,and eighty acres; and the United States, and the claimants, prosecuted this appeal.
The case, on the appeal of the United States,.was argued on
the part of the United States, by Mr. Duvall, and Mr. Legar6,
the attorney-general of the United Stateg; and was submitted on
printed argumenis by.Mr. Garr and Mr. Ogden,for the appellees.
The arguments of the counsel on numerous points, submitted
for the appellants and thie A'ppellees, are omitted; as the decree of
the.Court was made exclusively, on the question of the validity
of the grant, under the 'cession of Florida to the United States,
by the treaty with Spain.
For the appeUants, it was .ontended, that bs io snrvey, possession, or cultivationof the land had been proved, as was necessary
according to the laws, usages, and ordinances of the Spanish
government, to vest a valid title to the land in the claimant; the
decree of the Superior. Court of East Florida should be reversed.
Mr. Jilstice WAYxE delivered~the opinion of the Court.
Appeal from the Superior Court of East Florida.
The defendants in error claim title to a tract of land, under a
grant made by Governor White, on thle 26th November, 1810,
to Don Pedro Miranda, containing'eight leagues square; or three
hundred and sixty-eightthousand six hundred and forty acres,
on the waters of Hillsborough,'and Tampa bays,,in the eastern
district of the territory of Florida.
Miranda's petition -or the grant, and the grant, are in pages
153, 154.

After a recital of services, he asks as a remuneration, and in
consideration of his destitute dondition, that there may be granted
to him in absolute property, a.square of eight leagues in the
royal lands which are found on the waters of Hillsborough and
Tampa bays, in virtue of royal orders on the subject. of 'granting
lands gratuitously to Spanish subjects. The governor, m reply,
acknowledges his services, and grants to him "in' the terms as he
solicits, the quantity of land in the places which he indicates,
without prejudice to a tfiird party;" and directs, "a certified.
copy of the proceeding to be issued to him from the secretary's

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Miranda.]

office for his security. It does not appear that such certified
copy was given to him; but Aguilar, who was secretary when
the grant was made, deposes that he- remembers that the grant
was made to Miranda for his deserts and services on the shores
of Hillsborough and Tampa bays; "that it was a part of eight
leagues square, or thereabouts ;" and he further says, the handwriting to the grant is the legitimate signature of Governor
White. The district attorney admits that he has seeji in the
office of the archiyes of Florida, a document, of which that introduced by the complainants is a copy.
No survey, however, of the land was made whilst Florida was
a province of Spain. Nor was any attempt made by the grantee,
or by any agent or person claiming under him, to occupy any
land under this grant, or to make a survey of it, until after the
Floridas had been ceded to the United States. The complainants
allege that one was made in 1821, by Charles Vignolles, a surveyor of East Florida; and this survey is the first assertion of
right in the premises by the grantee. After this survey was made,
the grantee conveyed portions of the land, between the years
1822 and 1828; to the claimants associated with him in this suit.
They allege that a claim for the whole of the lands was submitted
to the examination of the commissioners appointed under the
act of Congress of 3d March, 1,23. 3 Story, 1907, entitled an
act for ascertaining claims and titles to lands in the territory of
Florida. The survey made by Vignolles, however, is not in the
record; nor does it seem to have been in evidence on the trial of
the cause in the Court below.
By agreement between the solicitors and counsel of the parties,
a pro forms decree was given for forty-six thousand and eighty
acres. of land, in favour of the. complainants, situated on the
waters of the bay8 of Hillsborough and Tampa; and from this
decree the cause has been brought to this Court by appeal by the
United States.
We do not think it necessary to discuss, in deiail, the points
urged in argument for and against the confirmation of this grant.
Two considerations are decisive of its invalidity.
The grant is void, no land having been severed from the
public domain previous to the 24th January, 1818; and because the
calls of the grant are too indefinite for locality to be given to-them.

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

157

[The United States v. Miranda.]

The petitioner asks for "a square of eight leagues, in the royal
lands which are found on the waters of Hillsborough and Tampa
bays." The grant is, "I grant to him, in the terms which he
solicits, the said quantity of land in the places which he indicates."
Tampa or Espiritu Santa, as it was known or called before
Florida was ceded to the United States, is the largest on the Gulf
of Mexico. It is at least forty miles long, and in one or more
places, from thirty to forty miles broad. Hillsberough river empties
into it from the north. To the southeast of Hillsborough river are
the' Indian and Alafia rivers. Lower down the bay, on the same
side, is Manali river, from sixteen to twenty miles wide at its
mouth; and Oyster river is twenty miles below the Manali.
The eastern part of this bay was by the British called Hillsborough; and the little bay attached to the north side, Tampa.
The little Tampa is an elliptical basin, about ten miles in diameter.
There are many islands in the bay, especially on the western part
and at its mouth; and Tampa extends to Sarragossa bay. Williams's Territory of Florida, page 24.
Where, in this extensive area, shall this grant be located?
Shall it be on either of the rivers emptying into the bay? On
the eastern or western side of the bay? ' At its head, or at its
mouth? Shall it be a contiguous body of land on Hillsborough
bay, or on little Tampa; or shall it be divided in equal parts on
both? If the grantee claims a right to survey on Hillsborough
and little Tampa as the places indicated in his petition, then it
cannot be taken in a single body "of a square of eight leagues;"
for the former being' on the east part of the bay, and the latter
on the north side; neither the dimension nor form of the grant
could be surveyed touching on both. And this, whether it is to
be taken in a square of four equal sides, or in a rectangular parallelogram with a part of one third of the bay: which last is the
mode prescribed by the Spanish authorities for surveys on navigable waters.
Shall it be left to the grantee to choose, or shall the Court
arbitrarily fix upon a point for the beginning of a survey? If
there was a starting point, the claimants might, putting aside the
other questions in the case against the confirmation of the grant,
be entitled to a survey. But there is none. No survey was
made under the grant whilst Fl9rida belonged to Spain. Indeed,
VOL. XVI.-O

158

SUPREME COURT.
(The United

v. Miran&.]
vta

it appears from the record, that neither the. governor making the
grant, nor any other Governor of Florida after him, ever gave
an order for a survey of this grant. 'The grantee, though all the
time in Fforida, from the time when the grant was given until the
treaty with Spain was made, a period of nine years, did not
apply, or if he did, did not receive froni the authorities of Spain
an order for a survey. The case shows that in other grants of
land made to him, subsequently to the date of that now under
consideration; and there are nine or ten of them in the record;
pages 81 to 93, inclusive; that Miranda umiformly had them 'consummated'by a royal title. And it is also worthy of remark, that
he states in his petition to Governor Coppinger, on the 16th of
September, 1817, after reciting his services from 1794 to 1812,
in the defence of the'province, aid that he had had.in his charge
divers extraordinary commissions, he states, "for which he had
never had any compensation whatever." What, then, had become of his grant for a square of eight leagues in the royal lands
which aie found on the waters of Hillsborough and Tampa
bays?
The locality then, of the premises, was not acknowledged t I
the authorities of Spain. No effort wag made to give identity to
the grant before the treaty was ratified.
Is such a grant protected by the treaty? We think not. The
eighth article of the treaty is: "All the grants of land made before
the 24th of January, 1818, by his Catholic Majesty, or by his
lawful authorities in the said territories, ceded by his majesty to
the Uhited States, shall be ratified and confirmed to the persons in
possession of the lands, to the same extent that the same grants
would be valid if the territories had remained under the dominion of his Catholic Majesty. -But the owners in possession
of such lands, who by reason of the recent circumstances of the
Spanish nation, and the revolutions in Europe, have been prevented from fulfilling all the conditions of their grants, shall complete them within the times limited in the same, respectively, from
the date-of this treaty, in default of which the said grants shall
be null and void. All grants made since the 24th of January,
.1818, when the first proposal, on'the part of his Catholic Majesty
for the, cession of the Floridas was made, -re hereby declared
and agreed to be null and void." The words in the foregoing

JANUARY, TERM, 1842.

159

Trhe United States. v.Miranda.]
extract shall be ratified and confirmed to the persons "npossession
of the land, have been decided by this Court, in Percheman's
Case, 7 Peters, 51; to mean, "the grants shall remain ratified and
confirmed to the persons in possession of them, to the same extent,
&c., &c.;I" or, as this Court said in Kingsley's Case, 12 Peters,
46, cstand ratified .and confirmed to the same extent that the
same grants would be yalid, if Florida had remained under, the
dominion of Spain.'? And the words "in possession of them,"
have by this Court, in Arredondo's Case, 6 Peters, 741, and in all
other cases upon Florida grants, after it, been determined not to
.imply occupation or residence only, but a legal seisin. The
Court said in that case, "By grants of land we do not mean the
meregrant itself, but the right, title, legal possession, and estate,
property, and ownership, legally resulting upon a grant of land to
the owner." But, in the case before us, from the want of survey,
or some point for the beginning of one, there can neither
be a seisin in fact nor in law; for identity of premises is as essential for a seisin in law, as it is necessarily implied in a seisin in
fact. The grantee, then, can only claim validity for this grant to
the same extent that it would have been valid, if the territories
had remained under the dominion of his Catholic Majesty. And
this brings up the questions, how far this grant was valid when
the Floridas were ceded to the United States; or whether, in the
situation in which this grantee stood when the treaty was made,
he had more than a permission to ask for the means of having the
lands identified, that he might have a right of possession.
The grant was made in 1810. No order of survey was made;
nothing was done to .withdraw the land from the general mass
of property, or to show what it was, which was to be withdrawn.
It therefore remained in the King of Spain, with the power to
consummate that which had been done on Miranda's petition,
into a complete title; according as it might be his pleasure to do
or pot to do so. And when he ceded the Floridas to the United
States, the latter were placed in respect to this grantee, exactly in
the situation in 1-rhich his Catholic Majesty had stood.. This being
so, the eighth article of the treaty, on the most liberal interpretation of the intentions which actuated the high contracting
parties, imposes upon the United States no obligation to make
a title to lands of which the grantee had neither an actual seisin,

160

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Miranda.]

nor aseisin in law. Identity is essential for the latter, and has
uniformly been, in the 'contemplation of- this Court, when it has
confirmed Florida grants, inchoate or complete. This Court
said- in Forbes's Case, 15 Peters, 182, "the Courts of jxustice can
ofily adjudge what has been granted, and declare that the lands
granted by the lawful authorities of Spain, are separated from the
public domain." The grant'now sought to be confirmed, was
not so separated by survey, or. by any such distinctive call as
will admit of a survey. In Forbes's Case, just mentioned, the
grant was foi land "in' the district or bank of the river Nassau;" and the Court say, after noticing the uncertainty of the
description for the location of the land, "No survey of the land
granted was ever made; the duty imposed upon the grantee to
produce the plat and demarcations in proper time, was never
performed. This Was a condition he"assumed upon himse f; the
execution and return of the survey to the proper ,office, in such
case, could only sever the land granted from the public domain."
"No particular land having been severed from the public domain
by John Forbes, his was the familiar case of one having a claim
on a large section of country, unlocated," &c. &c. "In 'such a
Acase, the government has ever been deemed to hold the fee unaffected by a vested, equitable interest, until the location was made,
according to the laws of the particular country." And though,
in the decree granting the land to Forbes, the governor says, "It
will be'the duty of the party to produce the plat, and demarcations in the proper time;" it does not vary the principle, but
rather seives to establish it; that "in grants of land with uncertain designations, to be made on a large .distriat of country, they
must have been severed from the, public domain by survey, or
be void for want of identity." Upon mature d0liberation, the
same doctrine was held in Buyck's Case, 15 Peters, 215, which
was a grant for lands "at Musquito," "south and north of said
place."' Also in O'Harra's Case, 15 Peters, 275; again in Delespine's Case, 15 Peters, 319.
Indeed, the settled doctrine of this. Court, in respect to these
Florida grants, is, that grants for lands embracing a widg extent of
country,. or witiin a large area of natural or artificial boundaries,
and which grafited lands-were-not surveyed before the 24th of
January, 1818, and wbich-are without such'designatioiis as will

JANUARY TERM1,- 1842.
The Umt

t,

161

Miru&]

give a -place of beginning for a, survey, are. n6t lands withdrawn
from the mass of vacant lands, ceded to the United States in the
Floridas; and are void, as well on.that account, as for being so
uncertain that locality cabnot be giveA to them. The decrqe of
the Court below is reversed, and the grant declared to be
invalid.

