SUPREME COURT.

JoHN TOMPKINS, SURVIVING PARTNER OF J
ADAM

MURRAY,

TRADING

UNDER

AND MURRAY, COMPLAINANTS

N TOMPKINS AND

THE FIRM,

OF TOMPKINS

AND APPELLANTS, V. LEONARD

WHEELER ET AL., DEFENDANTS.
A bill to set aside a deed of assignment, made by an insolvent debtor, for the purpose
of securing the payment of his debts to certain enumerated creditors, to the exclusion
of the complainant, also a creditor of the assignor, and of others.
A debtor may lawfully apply his-property to the payment of the debts of such creditors
as he may choose to prefer; and he may elect the time when it is to be done, so as
to make it effectual; and such preference must necessarily operate to the prejudice of
creditors not provided for, and cannot furnish any evidence of fraudulent intention.
The case of Marbury v. Brooks, 7 Wheat. 556, and 11 M,ueat. 78, cited.
When a deed of assignment is absolute upon its face, without any condition whatever
attached to it, and is for the benefit of the grantees, the presumption of law is that
the grantees accepted the deed.
The delivery of a deed of assignment for the benefit of creditors to the c rk, to be
recorded, may be considered as a delivery to a stranger for the use of the creditors;
there being no condition annexed to the assignment, making it an escrow.
After the assignment, the creditors fAr whose benefit the same was made, neglected to
appoint an agent or trustee to execute it, and the property assigned remained in the
hands of the assignor. The property consisted principally of choses in action,
which the assignor went on to collect, and divided the proceeds among the creditors;
under the assignment. No one of the creditors was dissatisfied; and at any time
the creditors could have taken the property out of the hands of the assignor. Held,
that, leaving- the property in the hands of the assignor under these circumstances,
did not affect the assignment; or give a right to a creditor not preferred by it, to set
it aside.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
district )f Kentucky.
[p. the Circuit Court of Kentucky a bill was filed, on the equity
side of the Court, for the purpose of setting aside a deed of assignment or mortgage made by Leonard Wheeler, for the purpose
of securing certain of his creditors, in praference to the complainant, who was also a creditor..
At the November tenn, 1837, of the' Circuit Court, the complainants had obtained certain judgments against the defendant
Wheeler; and on the application of the defendant, it was agreed
that nb executions should be issued upon those judgments until
Februatv, 1838. The debt on which the judgments had been

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

107

[Tompkins v. Wheeler.)

obtained amounted to twelve thousand dollars, which had been
purchased by the plaintiffs for one thousand dollars; the defendant having failed in.1814, and this being one of the debts due by
him at the time of his failure. He afterwards entered into business in Kentucky, coitracted a large amount of debts, and obtained some property.
Five days before the time when the- comaplainant had a right
to issue execution on the judgments, Leonard Wheeler executed'
a general assignment or mortgage of all Fis property. The
assignment provided for the payment, in the first place, of all his
debts contracted since his failure, in 1814, giving to them a
priority or preference, "as all his means and effeats had been
accumulated by the credit given to him in Kentucky; the same
being divided into two classes." It provided tlfat among his old
debts, out of the, surplus of his estate, which was expected to
remain after the first and second class of preferred debts had been
satisfied, that certain debts, due by him in 1814, the judgments in
favour of the plaintiffs not being among them, should be paid;
and not believing the effects assigned would extend beyond the
payment of these debts, no others were designated. "The assignment then proceeds to assign and transfer all the property and
effects to the creditors of the first and second class, in trust to pay
the debts according to the preferences and classification on the
same; giving to the said creditors, or a majority of them, power
to nominate and appoint an agent, attorney, or trustee, to carry
the purposes of the instrument into full effect.
On the 15th of February, 1838, writs of fieri facias were issued
on the judgments, which were returned by the marshal "nulla
bona."
The appellant filed a bill in the Circuit Court, praying that the
decd of assignment executed by Wheeler should be decreed
fraudulent and void, as it regards the complainant. The bill also
alleged acts done by the defendant Wheeler for the concealment of
property, and also the nominal creation or increase of debts
which were inclided in the preferences made by the assignment,
and other acts of fraudulent collusion: and also, it alleged that
the property assigned had been left in the hands of the assignor,
and the creditors had never appointed an agent, or trustee, who
had taken charge or direction of the property assigned. In the

108

SUPREME COURT.
[Tompkins v, Wheele.]

opinion of the Court, ddlivered by Mr,Justice Thompson, other
facts are stated, which are taken notice of by the Court.
The Circuit Court made a decree dismissing the bill, and the
complainants piosecuted this appeal.
Tle case was submitted to the Court, on a printed argument,
by Mr. Ogden, for the appellant; and y Mr. Crittenden, who
presented to the Court the printed argument of Mr. M. C: John-.
son, for the appellee..
Mr. D. B. Ogden, for the appellarnt.
The right and power of a debtor to give a preference to some
bong fide creditors over.others, is not- denied. But such preferences are no favourites in a Court of Equity, in Tvhich "equality
is equity;" yet, inasmuch as such a deed is good and valid at
law, equity follows the law, and will support it.
But a Court of Chancery will look narrowly into all the circumstances of the case; and if they find the deed tainted in the
smallest degree with fraud, they will declare it void. A,.preference may be given to some creditors over others; but, in giving
that preference, the debtor must act bong fide. Independent of
the questions of law.arising in this case, there are strong circumstances to show that, in making this assignment, the defen~ant,
Wheeler, did not act with good' faith. towards the complainant.
He.obtained from him an agreement to postpone issuing any executions upon his judgments until after the first of February; it
was hr bad faith for him to avail himself of this postponement,
thus obtained, to place all his property out of the reach of an
execution. It is evident that this assignment was made to
..
defr.ud and injure the cmplainant, and 'to prevent his recovering his debt.
'Another strong circumstance against the fairness and good faith
of this assignment, is the following: The assignment directs
that an old. debt, due from-him *to F. & J. Sexton, of New York;
for the sum of three thousand one hundred and twenty dollars,
with interest at the rate of six per cent. from August, 1814, shall
be paid; and it also recites that this debt has been assigned to
Norman Porter, who -nowholds the same.
Now, this Norman Porter, it appeart throughout this record

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

109

[Tompkius v. Wheeler.]

is one of the most intimate friends of Wheeler, and one of those
favourites for whom he wished to Provide in preference to the
complainant. Porter's answer states, that he paid three hundred
and seven dollars and fifty cents, Kentucky money, for the debt
of F. & J. Sexton, in January, 1838. He began to negotiate for
it in December, 1837. He purchased it without any arrangement
with or suggestion from Wheeler. He had heard of the prosecution
by Winter, and of Wheeler's intention to assign his property for
the benefit of his other creditors, to prevent Winter from recovering the amount of his judgments; and he therefore bought up this
debt of the Sextons. The amount of principal and interest on
this debt, calculating the interest at six per cent., from August,
1814, to November, 1837, is seven thousand four hundred and
twenty-two dollars and forty cents; which this 'Mr. Porter receives, and for which he paid but three hundred and seven
dollars and fifty cents.
The assignment purports to convey his property directly to the
creditors named in it. There is no proof that it was delivered to
any of them; and it is in proof that several of the creditors never
knew of its existence.
Wheeler continued in possession of the pfoperty; it never was
delivered over; this of itself is evidence of fraud. 1 Peters, 356;
4 Mason, 321; 3 Maul. & Selw. 371; 15 Johns. 571; 4 Bibb,
445, Kentucky Reports.
The assignment gives the creditors power to name a trustee, to
take the property; no such trustee has ever been appointed. The
sale of some property to Putnam was evidently rhade for the
mere purpose of, preventing the judgment creditor from recovering his demand; and is therefore void.

Cowp. 434; 1 Burr. 474;

1 Campbell, 333.
This assignment, the Court will recolfect, was made but four or'
five days before the time during which execution was to. be
staged expired, and the negotiation which brought about the
assignment of this debt of the Sextons, was not entered upon by
Porter until December, long after the judgments were entered:
and Porter himself admits that he knew of the intended'assignment by Winter, and that their debt was to be provided for. It
appears that a more fraudulent attempt than this to give ' preferVOL. XVI.-K

SUPREME COURT.
[Tompkins v. Wheeler.]

ence over a bonn fide creditor rarely occurs.
2 Gallis: 557; Pickering, 71.

7 Peters, 605;

Mr. Johnson, for the appellees.
The assignment of Wheeler to his creditors is charged to be
fraudulent, because it was made by Wheeler without the knowledge or assent of the creditors therein named, and was never
delivered to, or accepted by them.
It is contended that the fact is otherwise. None but F. L: Turner
failed to give issen't to it; and the mortgage funds can, under no
contingency, pay his debt; and his interest in them amounts to
nothing. As to all who do not admit that they did not assent,
the presumption of law is, that they did assent, as the deed was
beneficial and had no condition, attached. See Halsey v. Whitney, 4 Mason, C. C. R. 206; Wheeler v. Sumner, 4 Mason, C. C.
R. 183.
This presumpion particularly applies to all the non-residents,
as to whom the suit is dismissed. All others have answered, or
by agreement are considered as having answered; assenting to
the mortgage, or stating that they were paid before process was
served.
It may not appear from the answers of some when the assent
was given, but according to the practice in United States' Courts,
a matter alleged but not answered must be-proven on final trial.
See Young v. Grundy, 6 Cranch, 52. If a more specific answer
had been desired, exceptions should have been taken. All
exceptions to insufficient answers are expressly waived by
agreement.
In regard to delivery, it is well settled, that-if a deed be
delivered to a stranger for the use of the grantee, without any
condition annexed making it an escrow, it is a delivery to the
grantee. Sheppard's Touchstone, 58. In this case the deed was
delivered to the clerk of the Fayette County Court, for the use of
Tt has also been
the grantees, to be recorded in his office.
to four, but only
feoffment
be
made
decided, that if a deed of
delivered to three of them, and livery of seisin made tct the three
for the use of all, without the assent of the fourth, and when it
comes to his knowledge, he disagrees to it, still the freehold is in
him, and so remains, until disclaimer in Court; and so if a deed

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

111

[Tompkins v. Wheeler.)

be made of goods and chattels, and be delivered to a stranger for
the use of donee, there the goods and chattels vest in donee before notice or agreement; but in this case donee may make
refusal in pais, and by such refusal the interest is divested. See
Butler and Baker's case, 3 Coke's Reports, 26, 27. See also the
case of Doe on dem. Garnons v. Knight, 5 Barn. & Cress. 671, for
a full ari'ument on the effect of delivery to a stranger, and for a
collation of all the authorities. According to these principles, so
far as the vesting of legal title is concerned, it matters not whether the grantees were consulted or knew of the deed or not; the.
property embraced in it was vested in ihem by force of the delivery to the clerk for their use until their disagreement.
In cases of deeds of trust, where the pr6perty is conveyed to a
stranger, for the benefit of creditors, and these creditors not parties
to the deed, it has been decided by this Court, in Marbury v.
Brooks, 7 Wheat. 556; and Brooks v. Marbury, 11 Wheat. 78;
Brashear v. West, 7 Peters, 608, also, in the cases of Halsey v.
Whitney, 4 Mason's C. C. R. 206; and Wheeler v. Sumner,
4 Mason's C. C. R. 183, that the assent of the creditors is not
necessary to the validity of such a deed; and in the 'ase of Marbury v. Brooks, supra, an assent after a creditor had attached the
goods was decided to be sufficient to make the deed valid from
its execution.
The rule, that in absolilte sales of chattels the possession remaining with the grantor, Is a f~aud per se, has been fully recognised in Kentucky; but it is equally well settled, that this rule has
no application to mortgages and deeds of trust., See 5 Littell's
Reports, 243; 1 J. J. Marshall, 282; 3 J. J. Marshall, 453. In
Snyder v. Hitt, 2 Dana, 204, the Court say.tbat the possession of
the mortgagor is not fraudulent, and, in general, no ,evidence of
fraud. This Court,. in Uniied States v. Hooe, &c., 3 Cranch, 73,
decide, that where the deed provides for the grqntor retaining
possession, it is not fraudulent, and in 1 Peters, 449, the rule is
hel4 only to apply where the possession of the grantor is inconsistent with the deed.
The reason of this distinction, in Kentucky, is two-fold. 1.
The possession of the mortgagor is not inconsistent with the -deed:
and, 2. All deeds of mortgage and of trust are required to be
recorded.

112

SUPREME COURT.

[Tompkins v. Wheeler.]
The equity of redemption, or resulting trust of grantor, and his
interest in freeing himself from debt, by making the' property as
available as possible for that purpose, are such actual and legal
interests in the .property, as all Courts will regard and protect,
and are such inierests as render it not only consistent with the
transaction, but highly beneficial to all parties, that the debtor, ff
honest and capable, should remain in the possession of the encumbered property. He is the person best acquainted with the property and its capabilities, and his interest perfectly coincides with
that of the creditors, in making it as valuable as possible.
There can be no doubt that the assignment in question is not
an absolute sale, but a mortgage or deed of trust. The property
is assigned for ihe purpose of paying the debts. Upon their payment, the p.operty, by operation of law, results to the grantor.
But, by whatever name it may be called, it is, in substance and
reality, a mortgage; and Wheeler has, in the property, all the interests which are above enumerated as appertaining to the mortgagor: and there is, consequently, the same 'consistency of his
possession with the deed that there could be were it a mortgage,
in the most nicely technical sense. In the deed it is provided,
substantially, that he shall remain in possession, managing the
fund, until the grantees, by agent or otherwise, take possession.
In Kentucky, all mortgages and deeds-of trust, whether of real
or personal estate, on legal or equitable interests, are required to
be recorded in offices of the County Courts. Brown and Morehead's Statute Law of Kentucky, vol. i.pages 448,449; also, see
Session Acts of 1836, 1837, page 255; also, Session Acts of 1838,
1839, page 96. These statuteswould change jhe rule as to possession, even had it previously existed, by destroying the reason
of it. In regard to chattels, the only ownership the world can
know, is the continued possession. Being capable of transfer, by
th. most secret contracts, without'the least solemnity or notoriety,
purchasers and creditors could be deceived and defrauded without
limit, did not the law provide for their security some visible test
of ownership. The continued possession is the test as to chattels,
but it is not of'real estate, the title-deeds being the evidence, and,
accordingly, we find the rule does not extend to real estate. In
Kentucky, the notice of encumbrances is the record, and purchasers and creditors are completely guarded against being

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

113

[Tompkins v.Wheeler.]

defrauded by mortgages, &c., by an easy reference to the office
of the County Court.
The property is not, however, of the character to which the
rule applies. 'Consisting of choses in action, they are incapable
of visible possession, and pass by assignment.- So this Court held
in the case of Spring v. The South Carolina Insurance Company,
8 Wheat. 268.
If a debtor gives up all he has, to bona. fide creditors, and such
all he has provided for .are admitted. to be, and he reserves no
right, power or benefit to himself, it is impossible that -this can
be fraudulent. The law not only d6es not condemn, but approves
and sanctions it. - See the luminous opinion of Justice Story in
the case of Halsey v. Whitney, 4 Mason C. C. R. 207; and the
numerous authorities collated and ably dommented on.
Mr. Justice THOMPSON delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal from the Circuit -Court of the United States,
for the district of Kentucky.
The bill, filed in the Court below, was for the purpose of setting
aside a,certain. deed of assignment, made and executed' by the
defendant, Wheeler, for the purpose of securing to certain enumerated creditors the avails of his property; tor the exclusion of
the complainant; and that the complainant ma-y be decreed to
have satisfaction of his judgments set' out in'the bill, out of the
property conveyed by the deed.
The bill sets out, that at the November term of the Circuit
Court of the United States, in Kentucky, in the year 1837, the
complainant recovered two judgments against Leonar-1 Wheeler;
one for the sum of four thousand dollars, with interest,, from the
21st of February, 1814; and the other -for eight hundred and
ninety-one dollars and fifty-three cents, with interedt for the same
time; upon which judgments executions were not to issue until
the 1st of February, 1838: at which time executions were duly
issued, and put into the hands of the marshal of the district to be
executed; upon which the marshal returned, that he. found no
property of which to make the money on the executions.
The bill further states, that on the 27th of January, 1838, the
said Leonard Wheeler, by deed of trust or assignment, made aconveyance to certain of his preferred and specified creditors (of
x2
15

SUPREME COURT.
[Tompkins v.Wheeler.]

which the complainant was not one) of certain property therein
specified, to pay and discharge certain specified debts, which deed
was duly acknowledged and recorded in the proper county; and
the bill charges, generally, that this deed is fraudulent and void.
It particularly charges, that the deed was made without the
knowledgb, privity, or assent of the creditors named'therein, and
who aire the parties to whom the deed is given. That the deed
wds never delivered to, nor accepted by the grantees. That it
was made with intent to deceiv'e and defraud his just creditors,
who were not included in its provisions. That the possession of
the property conveyed by said deed, was' retained b the said
Wheeler, and never delivered to the parties of the second part, or
any one of them. That the deed was lodged in the clerk's office
for record after the rendition of the complainant's judgments, and
but a short time before he was authorized to issue execution upon
his judgments.
It further charges that the sale of the goods to Joseph Putnam,
one -ofthe creditors named in- the deed of trust, was fraudulent,
and without any valuable consideration; and that the business
was afterwards conducted in the name of the said Putnam, but
-for the use in whole or in part ofThe said Wheeler.
it further charges that Jo~eph Swift, another defendant, has
for several years past been'employed in carrying on the grocery
business, in which the said Wheeler was interested; and that the
said Swift is now in possession of goods, or money, or other property, belonging to the said Wheeler, or is indebted to*him for
the same.
It alsochaiges that Norman Porter;another of the preferred
creditors, had money in his hands belonging to the said Wheeler,
and to be used for, his benefit; and that the note mentioned in
the said deed of three thousand one hundred and seventy dollars,
was purchased by said Porter for Wheeler's benefit, and with his
money.The bill likewise prays, that Abel Wheeler, one of the preferred creditors, my-answer and state' particularly, whether- he
has at any time lent and advanced to Wheeler money or other
property, and whether he now holds any note, or memorandum,
or other evidence of debt agaiffst him.
The bill prays that the said Leonard Wheeler, and the above

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

115

Lrompkins v. Wheeler.]

mentioned preferred creditors, may answer specially, and particularly to the seyeral interrogatories' put in the bill, in reference
to the transactions between them severally and respectively.
The several answer of Leonard Wheeler, Porter, Putnam,
Swift, and Abel Wheeler, contain a full and explicit denial of all
the 'charges contained in the bill, tending in the least manner to
,sustain the allegations of fraud or collusion, or any secret or unfair transactions between them, or either of thein, with Leona.rd
Wheeler. And there is no proof offered to sustain these allegations; they may therefore be dismissed as wholly unsupported.
The bill calls upon the 'said Leonard Wheeler to state hov
and to whom he delivered the deed of trust; in answer to
which he states, that every creditor piovided for by the deed,
was a ' real and bona fide cieditor. That he consulted with a
number of his creditors; naming them, before making the*deed';
all of whom approved of it; and that he knows of none who
disapproved of it, or rejected the benefit of.its, provisions; and
some of them have accepted of it in writing, which appears by
the exhibits annexed to the answcr. That, being satisfied'with
the propriety of the measure, he made afid executed the deed,
and left it in the proper ofce, to be recordedfor- the use of his
creditors. He admits that the funds, mentioned in ihe -deed
of trust, remained in his -possession; and that the creditors
have nevei availed themselves of -the privilege of appointing a
trustee; having confidence, as he piesunies, in 1he correctness
of his managenaenf of the business. And he further states, that
he has gone 'on in collecting the choses iactiofi, and paying'ovr
the proceeds to the creditors, accordirlg to the provisions of the
deed of trust.
The answer of Wheeler with respect.to the delivery of the
deed, and the possession and -management of the funds, is corroborated by the answers of a 'number of the creditors, who are
made parties, and called upon to answer on-these pdifits. They
say, that they were consulted before the deed w.s executed, and
approved of it then; and accepted it when made. That no
'trustee has been appointed, because they had full confidence in
Wheeler, and desired him to continue in the managemenat of the
business.
There are several amended bills, with the answers 'thereto,

116

SUPREME COURT.
tTompkins v. Wheeler.]

bringing up some new matters, but not of sufficient importance
to require any special notice. The above statement of the bill
and answers presents all the niaterial questions which arise upon
the merits of this case.
It is deemed unnecessaryto notice the objections made to the
jurisdictiontof the Court below, either on the ground that Elisha
I. Winter, the ieal party in interest, should have been made the
party complainant in this suit; or that there is a want of proper
parties, defendants, to enable the Court to rake a.decree upon the
merits. The conclusion to which-we have- arrived supersedes
the necessity of considering theie questions.
Although the right and, power of a-debtor to give ;d preference
to some of his borii fide creditors, to the exclusion of others, has
not been denied on the part of the complainant; yet, it hat been
urged, in argument, that such-preferred cieditor are no favdurites
in a Court of Chancery, where it is said equality is.equiity; and that
a Court of Ciiancery will look narrowly into 611,the circumstahces,
and if it is found that the deed is tainted in the smallest degree
with fraud, it will be declared void. And it has been insisted,
that in tie present 6ise there are strong ircumstances to show
that in,.making this deed of trust, the defendant Wheeler did not
act in good faith" towards the complainant. - That he obtained
from him -an agreement to postpone issuing executions upon his
judgments until after the first of February; and-that a few days
before that time lie made the assignment in'questionso as to 'put
all.his property out of the reach'of the executions;3 and that this
was in bad faith, which ought hot, to"receive the anction of a
Court of Equity. It may be observed, ih the first place, t1at
there is no evidence of any-deception practised by Wheeler to
lull him to sleep, or procure afny delay. in issuing executions on
the judgments. It was done in the ordinary course of judicial
roceedings. And.if thp principle be sound, that a d6btorjmay
lawfully apply his property to th6. payment, of the debts of such
creditors as he may choose to prefer, he may certainlyr erect 'the
time when it is to be done, so as to make it effectual. And such
preference must necessarlly.operate to the prejudice bf creaitrsnot provided for; and cann6t' furnish any. evidence of a-fraudulent intention. But the circumstances of the present, case are
suph as not only to remove all ground for an' charge of fraud,

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

117

[Tompkins v. Wheeler.]
but even of injustice 6r unfairness in the conduct of Wheeler
Although it .may be admitted that John, Tompkins is properly
made complainait, yet it is manifest from the record that he is
a mere nominal party, and that Elisha I. Wiiter. is the real party
in interest. This is shown by the answer of Wheelei) and proved
by the testimony of William *Fellows; who swears that in the
latter part of 1836, or the beginning of 1837, Winter, tlfrough
his agent, applied to him, to purchase the claim of Tompkins,
which had been sent to him for collection. That he offered one.
thousand dollars for it, which was not at thiat time accepted.
That in the summer of 1837; Winter himself made the same
offer which his agent had made; and again, in the fall of 1837,
he renewed the offer of one thousand dollars, and expressed his
opinion of Wheeler's condition, -when, with the opinion, of some
others, who 'he supposed knew Wheeler's circumstances, he in
the month of October, 1837, sold the claim to Winter for one
thousand dollars; believing that he was-purchasing it for the benefit of Wheeler. That, a few days after the sale, he received a
written request from Winter not to let it be known that he' had
the control over the claim. Thus we see great anxiety in Winter
to purchase a claim against a man embarrassed and in-failiig
circumstances; and the consideration paid for it shows that the.
claim must have been considered almost desperate. Only one
thousand dollars given for a claim irhich, by the judgments stated
in the complainant's bill, including interest, amounted to between
eleven and twelve thousand dollars. These circumstances, independent of the statements in Wheeler's answer, are calculated
tO cast some suspicion upon the conduct of Winter, and to justify,
the inquiry, whether he comes into Court with clean hands,,
and can justly reproach Wheeler with bad faith and unfairness
towards him. Wheeler's circumstances were extremely embarrassed, if not desperate, and he found impending over him two
judgments amounting to nearly twelve thousand dollars, in the
hands and under the control of Winter; who he had certainly no
reason to believe was friendly to him; and which judgments,
if they could have been, enforced to their full amount, would
have swallowed up a great proportion of his property. Was he
-not, under such circumstances, authorized, by every principle of
justice and honesty, to .secure as far forth as he could his bona

118

SUPREME COURT.
{Tompki*n v.Whpeler.]

fide creditors? Thatthe debts of all the creditors prefbrred in the
deed of trust, are bontfide debts, is fully established; not only by
the proofsi-but is admitted on the record, by an agreement whigh,
-among other things, states, "that the genUineness of the'debts
provided for in Wheelet's assignment will not, be contested
called in question on the argument.."
.That a debtor has'a legal, right .to prefer one or more of his
creditors over others,. when the transaction is borig fide, is not an
op'en question in this Court. That point was settled in the case
of Marbury v..Brooks,,which came twice before the Court under
*circumstances somewhat different, and is reported in 7 Wheat.
556, and in 11 Wheat. 78. .Thai this assignment was a bong
fide transaction between -Wheeler and his preferred creditors, is
clearly established by the .proofs-. Every'allegatioh in the bill,
suggesting fraud or collusion, is fully, met and denied by the
several answers, and is wholly unsupported by any proofs.
But qeveral objections have. been taken to the legal effect and
operation of this.deed, on other grodiids than that of fraud.
That it was made by Wheelerwithout the knowledge or consent of the creditors therein named.. That it was never delivered
to or amcepted by the creditor
That possession of the fund was
.retained by Wheeler, and no trustee appointed accbrding to the
provisions of the deed.
Some of these objections are not founded in fact. -It is true
that it does not aplear that all the creditors had any knowledge
of the deed before it was executed, -But if does 'appearfrom the
answer of a number of the creditors named in the deed, that they
were .advised' of the necessity of Wheeler's securing them, and
informed of his intention to secure them before the deed was executed, aod approved of iti and accepted the benefits of its provisions; and since that time hAve been paid their debts, in full.
And there is no evidence that any one dissented. F. S. Fuller
says, he was never consulted with about making the deed, or informed of it before its execution; and that he has-never accepted
of its provisions. But, he d oes not say that he has ever refused
to accept of the provisions in fiis favour; and h6 nay not therefore have. precluded himself from still accepting. This deed is
absolute upon its face, *ithout any condftion-whatever attached
to it; and being for the -benefit of the grantees, the prestimption

-or

JANUALRY T-13R
7 1842.19
[Tompkins v.-Wheeler.]

of law is, in the absence of all evidence to the contrary, that the"
grantees accepted the deed. In the case of Marbury v. Brooks,
it is said by the Court, that an assignment for the benefit, of preferred creditors is valid, although their assent is not given at the
time'of its ekecution; if they subsequently accept in terms, or by
actually receiving the benefit of it.Deeds of trust, say the Court,
11 Wheat. 96, areoften made for.the benefit of persons who are
absent, ,and even for persons who are not in being; whether
they are for tlie payment.of money or for any other purpose, and
no expression of the assent of the persons for whose benefit they
are made has been required,. as preliminary to the vesting of the
legal estate itthe trustee; such trusts have always been exd"cuted on the idea that the deed was complete when executed by
tlke parties to it. The omission of creditors to assent to the'deed,
or to claim under it, may, under suspiious circumstances, afford
some evidence bf fraud. But real bong fide creditors are rarely un'i*lini to receive'their debts from any hand that will pay them. It
is not true that the deed remained in the possessioil of Wheeler;
it was seat to the clerk's office to be 'recorded It was, of course,
-placed in th6 hands of the clerk, to be recorded for the uses and
purposes expressed in the deed,-.and of course for the benefit of
the creditors named in it. It was put out of the possession and
control-bf the grantor. The grentees in the deed are numerous,
and all could not have the actual possession of it. It is laid
down in Sheppard's Touchstone, 58, that if a deed be delivered
to a stranger for the use of the grantee, without any condition annexed, ikaking it an escrow, it-is a delivery to the grantee. The
delivery to the clerk to be recorded, may well be considered as
falling within'this.rule.. This principle is fully recognised in the
case of Doe v. Knight, 5 .Barn, & Cress. 692, that a delivery of a
deed to a third person, for the use of the party in whose favour it
is made, where the grantor parts with all control over the deed,
is effectual, and operates from the instant of such delivery.
If the fund had remained ii the possession .ofWheeler for his
own benfit, it might have cast a suspicion upon the fairness of
the transaction; but there is no proof of any such object or design,
or of any. fact fr6m which an inference bf mala fides can be
-diawn: but on the contrary, the object of his continuing in the
possession o the property is satisfactorily accounted f6r by the

SUPRlEME COURT
[Tompkis v. Wheeler.]

circumstahces of the case. It consisted principally. of unsettled
aocounts, and choses in action, which he wa4 much more competent to settle than. a stranger could have been. It was, therefore,
for the benefit of the creditors that he continued to settle up these
accounts and pay over the money to his creditors, as the proofs
show that he did. This wab by the express consent of some of
the -creditors, and the presumed consent o all, as no dissent or
complaint appear to have been made by any; and no one had
any right to complain but the parties who were to receive the
benefit of the assignment. This possession was held at the will
and pleasure of the creditors, which they could have withdrawn
at any time, if dissatisfied with the management of Wheeler; and
this was a substantial compliance with that part of the assignment
which relates to the appointment of an agent, or trustee, for the
purpose-of executing and fulfilling the trusts and purposes of the
assignment. The creditors were, of course, to be the judges of
the fitness and competency of such agent, or trustee; and they
were the only parties interested in the faithful discharge of his
duties. No formal appointment was necessary; an express or
implied assent of -the creditors to Wheeler's acting as agent, or
trustee, was all that could be required, according to the fair inter.
pretation of the assignment
We are, accordingly, of opinion, that the decre3 of the Circuit

Court, dismising the bill without prejudice, be affirined.
Decree affirmed.

