SUPREME COURT.-

AND JOHN MEARs, "PAINTIFPS IN ERROR, V.
DRAPER RUGGLES ET AL., DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.

DAVID PROUTY

The plantiks, in the Circuit Court, claimed damages for the infringement of their
patent for "a new and useful improvement in the construction of a plough." The
clairh of the patentees was for the combination of certain parts of the plough, not for
the parts separately. The Circuit Court. charged the jury, that unless it is proved that
the whole combination is substantially used in the defendant's ploughs, it is not a
violation of the'plaintiff's patent; although one or more' of the parts specified in the
letters patent may be used in combination by the defendant. The plaintiffs, by their
specification and summing up, treated the parts described as essential parts of their
combination, for the purpose of brace and draft; and the use of either alone by the
defendant would not be an infringement of the combination patented. Held, that
the instructions of the Circuit Court were correct.
a combination, and the improvement consists in arranging different porThe patent is for
tions of the plough, and combinink them together in the manner stated in the spedfication, for the purpose of producing a certain effect. None oft e parts referreto
are new, and none are claimed as new; nor is any portion of the combinationleas
than the whole claimed as new, or stated to produce any given result. The end in
view is proposed to be accomplished by the union of all, arranged and combined
together in the manner described; and this combination, composed of all the parts
mentioned in the specification, and arranged with reference to each other, and to
other parts of the plough, in the manner therein described, is stated to be the improvement, and is the thing patented. The use of any two of these parts only, or
of two combined with a third, which is substantially different in the form; or in the
manner of its arrangement and connection with the others, is, therefore, not the thing
patented. It is not the same combination, if it substantially differs from it in any
of its parts.

IN error to the Circuit Court of the United States, for the district of Massachusetts.
The plaintiffs in error instituted a suit in the Circuit Court of
Massachusetts, for the recovery of damages for the violation of a
patent granted to them by the United States, for a new and useful
improvement in the construction of a plough.
The cause was tried before a jury, at October sessions of the
Circuit Court, in 1841, afid a verdict and judgment were rendered
for the defendant. The plaintiffs took exceptions to the charge
of the Court, and prosecuted this writ of error.
The case was submitted to the Court on printed arguments by

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

337

[Prouty and Mears v.'Ruggles'et al]
Mr. Choate, for the plaintiffs in error; and by Mr. Dexter, for
the defendants. The case is fully stated in the opinion of th6
Court.
Mr. Chief Justice TANi.&" delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case is brought here by a writ of error- to the Circuit
Court of the United States, for the district df Massachusetts.
The action was instituted for the purpose of.: recovering
damages for an infringgment -of a patent, which the plaintiffs
had obtained for an improvement in the construction of the
plough.
The invention is described in the specification, as follows:
"Be it known, that we, the said Prouty and Mears, have jointly
invented, made, and applied to use, a new and useful improveme'nt in the construction of the plough, which invention and improvement we describe and specify as follows, viz.:
Heretofore, the standard and landside of the plough has been
placed perpendicular to, and at right angles with the plane-of the
share; on this standard the beam has been placed in-such manner as to form. an acute angle with the landside, of such extent
as to place that part of the beam to 'which the moving power, is
applied at the distance of three or more inches from an extendedline of the landside, to the right; while the after-part of the beam
eitends one or more inches to the left of the perpendicular of the
landside, near the handle; the object has been to cause the
plough 'to run to land,' or hold its width of furrow. The~effect
produced has been an uneasy; struggling motion, as it meets resistance at the point, wing, or heel.
We make our plough with the standard and landside forming
an acute angle'with the plane of the share) the .standard inclining
to the right or furrow side, in such manner as to enable us to
place the centre -of the beam on a line parallel with the landside,
the forepart thereof at such distance from the extended line aforesaid, as to cause the plough to hold, its width of furrow, and the
after-part falling within the perpendicular of the landside of the
plough, the centie of it being nearly perpendicular to the centre
of resistance, on the mould-board, which we conceive to be at
about one-fourth part of the lateral distance from the landside to
the wing 6f the share, and at about one-third part of the perpenVOL. XVI.-2 F
43

338

SUPREME COURT.
[Prouty and Mears v. Tugales et a].]

dicular height from the plane of the share to the upper edge of
the mould-board.
This location of the centre of resistance, we base on the fact,
that many ploughs which have been used in sharp, sandy soils,
have been worn quite through at that point. The result of this
formation of the plough, is a steady, well-balanced m6tion, requiring less power of draft, and less effort in directing the plough in
its course.
The inclination of the standard and landside causes the plough
to, cut under, and take up the furrow in the forni of an bbliqueangled parallelogram, or like a board, feather-edged, which being
turned over, falls in level with the last furrow more readily than
right-angled or square-edged work:
The coulter or knife, having a similar inclination, cuts the roots
of the grass, &c., and leaves all vegetable niatt6r on the surface,
at a greater, distance from the under edge of the furrow, which
being turned over, more readily falls in, and is far better covered
than with square-edged work.
The top of the standard, through which the bolt passes to
secer - the beam, is transversely parallel to the planeo the share,
and extends back from the bolt to such distance as to form a.
brace to the beam, when the' after-part is' passed down by ling
at the forepart; the share being fast under a-rock, or other obstruction, the after-part of this extension is squared in such
manner, that being jogged into the beam, it relieves the bolt in
heavy draft.
The bolts which we use to fasten the pieces of cast iron, of
which our ploughs. are made, together, and tle'e wood-work,'are
round, with inverted convex heads, like'the wood screw, with a
projection on the under side of the.hea'd, of semicircular form,
'which fits into a groove in the counter-sink part of the bolt hole,
as it is cast to receive it, which not only prevents its turning, but
also diminishes the liability of breakage at the corners of square
holes; all which Will more fully-appear by reference to the drawing annexed to, and forming part of this specification.
We hereby declare, that what we claim as new, and. of our invention, is the construction of such ploughs as aforesaid, and the
several parts thereof, not separately, but in combination, for the
purposes aforesaid, viz.:

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

339

(Prodty zan Me"-rv. Ruggles et aL]

1. The inclining the standard :and- andside so as to form an

acute angle with the plane of the share.
2. The placing the bbam on a line 'parallel to the landside,
within the.body of the piough and. its centre; nearly in the perpendicular of the centre of iesistanoe.
3. The fo~ining" th6 top of.the standard for brace and draft.
We do not intend to confine our claim to any particular form or
construction, excepting such form as may be necessary to -place
the beam in the perpendicular of the centre of resistance, and
parallel to the landside, and also to such form of the 'topof the
standard, as shall- serve for brace and draft, but
have givei such
forni as we deem to: be most convenient, which may be varied, as
is obvious."
The plaintiffs offered to prove.the utility of the alleged improvement, which proof was dispensed with by the defendants. Certain.
ploughs alleged by the plaintiffs to be made in conformity with
their letters patent, and certain ploughs.made by the defendants,
which were the alleged infrfngement of the. plaintiff's patent,
were produced in Court; and no "substantial difference -between
,them was shown by the defendants to exist, unless"the -fact, that
the top of the itandard in the'defendant's plough .vas not jogged
into the lieam,'and did 'not exte'nd sd far back.'upon the- beam,
was to be so consideed.
And the plaintiffs offered evidence to show, that the top of the
standaid formed, as stated in the specification, would serve for
both purposes of brace and: draft, although not jogged into the
beam.
The defendants introduced 6o evidence. .The, counsel for the
plaintiffs requested the Court to' instruct ,the jury -as follows,
to wit:

The counsel of plaintiffs respectfully move th6 Court to instruct the jury, that if the defendants have used, in -combination
with the other two parts, a standard of'the description set forth
in the specification, and it is proved to serve both for 1race aend
draft, such use was an infringement of the plaintiffs' claim in that
particular, although -the defendants may not have inserted into a
jog in. the beam.
. Also, that if any two of the three parts described, as composing
the construction claimed -in the specification, had been used in

340

SUPREME COURT.
[Prouty and Mears v. Ruggles et al.]

combination by the defendants, it was an infringement of the patent, although the third had not been used with them.
The Court refused.to give the instructions so prayed, or either
of them, in manner and form as prayed by the plaintiffs; but did
instruct the jury as follows, to wit:
That upon the true construction of the patent, it is for a combination, and for a'combinatiorn only. That the combination, as
stated in thd summing up, consists of three things, viz.:
1. The inclining the standard and landside so as to form an
acute angle with the plane of the share.
2. The placing the beam on a line parallel to the landside,
within the body of the plough and its centre, nearly in the perpendicular of the centre of resistance.
3. The forming the iop of the standard for brace and draft;.
That tinldss it is proved, that thd whole combination is substantially used in the defendants' ploughs, it is not a violation of
the plaintiffs' pateht, although one or more of the parts specified,
as. aforesaia, may be used, in combination by the defendants.
And. that the Iplaintiffs, by their specification and summing up,
have. treated the jogging of the standard behind, as well as the
extension, to be essential parts of their combination for the purpose of brace and draft; and that the use-of either alone by the
de]endants would not be an infringement of the combination patented.
And thereupon the jury rendered their verdict for the defendants.
The first question presented by the exception is, whether the
extension of the standard, and the jogging of it into the beam, are
claimed as material parts of fhe plaintiff's improvement. We
think they are. In the paragraph in which it is described, he states
that it "extends back from the bolt to such a distance as to form
a brace to the beam ;" anialso, "that being jogged into the beam
it relieves the bolt in a heavy draft." And in their summing up,
they declare that they claim as new, and of their invention, the
construction of such ploughs aa aforesaid, and the several parts
thereof, not sepaiately but-in combination ; and ptoceeding then to
specify the parts so claimed, they mention, "the forming of the top
of the standard for brace and draft." They indeed say that they do
not mean to confine their claim to any particular form of construc-

JANUARY TERM, 1842.
[Prouty and Mesi v. iu

341

et al]

tio, except "so such form of the top as shall serve for brace and
draft." That is to say, the top is to be" so fomned and so connected with the beam as to answer both purposes. And as those
purpqses, according to the preceding part-of the specification, are
to be accomplished by its extension back from the bolt, and by
jogging it into the beam, these two things are essential to it
whatever variation may be made in its shape or size. They are,
therefore, material parts of the improvement they claim.
The remaining question may be disposed of in , few words..
The patent is for a combination, a'nd, the improvement consists
in arranging different portions of the plough, afid comb.ining them
together in the manner stated in the specification for the purpose
of producing a certain effect. None of the parts referred to are
new, aiid none are claimed as ne.w; nor is any portion of the
combination less than the whole claimed as new, or stated to
produce any given result. The end in view is proposed to be
accomplished by the union of all, arrangd and combined together
in the manner described. And this combindtidn;composed of.all
the parts mentioned in the specification, and arranged with reference to each' other, and'to other paits of the Plough in the manner therein described, is stated, to be the improvement, and is
the thing. patented. The use of any two of these parts only, or,
of two combined with a third, which -issubstantially different, in
form or in the manner of its arrangement 'and cdonnection with
the others; is therefore not the thing patented. It is.not the same
combination if it substantially differs from it in any of its parts.
The jogging of the standard-. into the beam, and its extension
backward from the bolt, are both treated by the plaintiffs'as essential parts of their combination for the puirpose of brace and
draft, Consequently the use of either alone,.by. the defendants,
would not be the same improvement, nor infringe the -patent of
the plaintiffs.
The judgment of the Circ'uit Court must therefore be dffirmed.,
2F2

