JANUARY TERM; 1842.

JAMES TODD, THoMAS WARREN, TRISTRAM G MITCHELL, WILLIAM C. MITCHELL, AND WOODBURY STORER, ADMINISTRATOR

OF ISRAEL WATERHOUSE, DECEASED, V. CHARLES DANIEL,
COMPLAINANT AND APPELLEE.
Motion to dismiss an appeal. The appellants were the original defendants. After the
decree of the Circuit Court, an appeal was claimed by all the defendants, and allowed
by the Court. A part of the defendants, who had originally claimed the appeal,
before any further procbeings abandoned it; and the residue of them, excepting
Todd, have, since the appea was filed, abandoned it, and Todd only has'entered his
appearance in the Supreme Court. The record stood in the names of all the appal.
lants. A motion was made to dismiss the appeal, for irregularity and wantof jursdiction; on the ground that it cannot be maintained in behalf of Todd alone. The
Court refused to dismiss the appeal.
The proper rule in cases of this sort, where there are various'defendants, seems to be
that all the defendants affected by a joint decree, (although it may be -otherwise,
where the defendants have separate and distinct interests, and the decree is several,
and does not jointly affect all,) should be joined in the appeal; and if any of them
refuse or decline upon notice and process, (in the nature of a summons, and severance
in a writ of error,) to e issued in the Court below, to become parties to the appeal,
then that the other defendants should be at liberty to prosecute the appeal for. themselves .nd upon their own account; and the appeal as to the others be pronounced
to b.3 deserted, and the decree of the Court below as to them be proceeded in and
executed.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
district of Maine.
Mr. Davies, for the appellee, moved to dismiss the appeal. He
stated that the appeal had been actually entered in the Circuit
Court, in the names of the appellants mentioned on the record;
but that there were other defendants in the Circuit Court, against
whom the decree had been rendered, who had not joined in the
appeal, not having had any regular notice of such appeal. They
were Hayes, Gou:h, and Westcott.
Of the above-named appellants, James Todd,-alone, enters his
appearance here, by his counsel, Francis 0. J. Smith, Esq,, who
now brings up the record, and proposes to prosecute the appeal
on behalf of Todd in this Court, singly, without any of the rest;
66
2x2

522

SUPREME COURT.
[Todd et al. v. Daniel.]

whose names, however, (appearing in the record as oppellants,)
are extended on the docket by the clerk.
The counsel for . Todd, by writing filed in the case here, February 16th, disclaims and disavows dny and all appearance for
either of the other defendants, named as appellants.
The other defendants who joined in the appeal have subsequently abandoned any further prosecution of it; and have given
notice to the complainant's counsel to that effect, submitting to
the decree, and some of them offering to pay their respective
amountsv, according to* the decree of the Circuit Court; the last
notice by the Mitchells being dated January 28th 1842, at which
time the appeal here. had not been entered, nor the record filed.
Mr. Smith, for the appellaht, Sames Todd, opposed the motion.
The only party here actually interested in the appeal is Mr.
Todd. Although he had been only an agent in the transaction out
of which the controversy involved in this suit arose, the decree
of the Circuit Court affected him as principal, and subjected him
to the payment of a considerable sum of money. It was to controvert this claim that the appeal had been prosecuted. If others
who had been appellants had withdrawn their appeal, or if some
of them did not enter an appeal, the party who now asks to
maintain it should not be injured by this conditidn of the case.
Mr. Justice STORy delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court for the
district of Maine, in a suit in equity, in which the eppellants were
the original defendants. After the decree was made, an appeal
was claimed by all the defendants, and allowed by the Court. A
part of the defendants -who originally claimed the appeal before
any further proceedings, abandoned their appeal; and the'residue
of them, excepting Todd, have, since the session of this Court,
abandoned their appeal, and Todd only has entered his appearance. But the record standiin the names of all the defendants
as parties appellant. Under these circumstances, the counsel for
the appellee has moved the Court to dismiss the appeal for irregularity -nd want of jurisdiction, upon the ground ihat it cannot
be maintained on behalf of Todd alone.
There is no doubt that the appeal having been deserted by all

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

523

ETodd et al. v.Daniel.]

the original defendants except Todd, it must be dismissed with
costs as to them. But as to Todd, very different considerations
,must arise. He seeks to reverse the decree in the'Court below,
as erroneous in regard to himself; and the question -is, whethe4
he is not entitled to maintain the appeal separately, for his own
interest, although it is deserted by all the other defendants. We
think that he is, otherwise an irreparable injury might be inflicted
upon him by an erroneous decree, for which the law would not
afford him any redress. The decree in this case is in fact against
him as principal, and against tile otlier defendants in aid of him,
for distinct portions of the purchase-money received by them
under the contract of sale made by Todd, and stated in the bill
and answer. The decree may be entirely right in regard to the
other defendants, and yet it may be erroneous as to Todd. He
has, or at least may have, a distinct and independent interest i
the controversy in respect to which he is entitled to be heard in

this Court.
The proper rule in cases of this sort, where there are various
defendants, seems to be that all the defendants affected by a joint
decree, (although it may be otherwise, where the defendants have
separate and distinct interests, and the d~cree is several, and'does
not jointly affect all,) should be joined in the appeal; and if any
of them refuse or decline upon notice and process.(in the hature
of a summons, and severance in a writ of error) to be issued in
the Court below, to become parties to the appeal, then that the
other defendants should be at liberty to prosecute the appeal for
themselves and upon their own account; and the appeal as to the
others be pronounced to be deserted, and the decree of the Court
below ag to them be proceeded in and exczuted. In the present
case, what has occurred is equivalent to such proceedings. All
the defendants originally claimed an appeal; some of them have
declined to pursue it at all; others have deserted it since it was
pending in this Court; and therefore, there is no pretence to say
that any practical inconvenience can occur from Todd's now
prosecuting it alone, and since 'the other defendants have all had
notice and declined to interfere, and are content. to abide by the
original decree.
In the case of Coxe and Dick v. The United States, 6 Peter, 172,
no doubt was entertained? by this Court, that a writ of error might

524

SUPREME COURT.
[Todd et al.
v. Daniel.]

be entertained by the defendants severally, where the judgment
operated under the laws of Louisiana as a several as well as joint
judgnient, although they might have united in the writ of error;
and if any one choose not to prosecute it, the others might, xpon
a summons and severance, proceed' alone.
The case of Owings v. Kincannon, 7 Peters, 399, seems to-have
been misunderstood at the bar, The objection in that case was
not that one or more of the defindants might not pursue an appeal for their own interest, if the others refused to join in it uppn
du notice, and process for that purpose from the Circuit Court;
but that it did not apppar that all the defendants were not ready
and v'illing to join in the appeal, and that the appeal was brought
by some of the appellants without giving the others an opportunity of joining in it, for the protection of their own interests;
not only against the appellee, but against the appellants, as their
own interests might be distinct from, or even adverse to that of the
appellants; and it was right and proper that all the parties should
have an opportunity of appearing before the Court, so that one
final decree, binding upon all the parties having a common interet, might be pronounceds
Upon the whole, therefore, our opinion is, that the appeal must
be dismissed with costs against all the deiendants except Todd,
and as to him it is to~be retained for a hearing upon the merits.

