JANUARY TERM, 1842.

MARTHA BRADSTRZET, DEMANDANT,
WILLIAM -F. POTTER,

PLAJNTIF IN ]EoX, V.
1'NAfT, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.

The-questions presevted to this Court on the writof error being the same with those
in lradstredt v. Thomas, 12 Peters, 17. the judgm nt of the Circuit Cojut, in
favour of the defendant in error, was reversee.
The counsel for the plaintiff ad defendant in error having applied to the Court to hear
the case upon other points presented in the briefs of th; plaintl and the defendant,
in ocder to obtain the judgment- of the Court upon -these points, for the directiol
of the Circuit Court on the further trial of the cause; the Court said-: The Court
cannot give any opinion xipon points not properly before it, t4ose pohnts not being
in the bill of exceptions filed in the record to the ruling of the Circuit Court. The
proper functions of a Court on a writ of error is to pass judgment upon the points
excepted to in the opinion of the Court below ; 'and not to decide the law uf the case
in anticipation of its trial in the Circuit Court.
The rule as to coats has been established by the forty-seventh rule of this Court, 8 Peters's Iteports. In all cases of'reversal of ady judgmnent or decree in the Supreme
Court, except whereihe reversal shall be for want of'jurisdiction, 6uts shall be allowed for the plaintiffi id error or appellants, as the case, may be. unless ofherwise
'brdered by the Court.

IN error to' the Circuit Court of the United States for 'the
northern district of New York.
The case had been tried in the -Circuit Court for the northern
district of New York, on a writ of night, filed by the demandanf,
the plaintiff in error, for the recovery of -certain lands in .the
count of Oneida, in the state of New York. Aler various proceedings in the case, the'Court gave judgment for the tenant, tnd
this writ of error'was prosecuted by the demandant. The whole
of the questiors in this writ -of error were the same ,with those
presented to the Supreme Court in the,case of Bradstreet v.
Thomas, 12 Peters, 174.
Mr. Jones, for the-demandant and plaintiff in error; -and Mr.
Beardsley, for the defendant; it having been agreed by them that
the judgient of the Circuit Court must be reversed, on the authority of the case of Bradstreet v. Thomas, 12 Peters, 174;
united in an application to the Court to take up'the case on the
merits, in order to obtain the decision of the Court upon the
2n 2

318

SUPREME COURT.
LBradstreet v. Potter.J

whole case; to be used in the Circuit Court on .the trial of the
cause, when it should be remanded under the order of this
Court.
Mr. Beardsley also presented to the Court a questioni, whether
the defendant in eror should be subjected to costs if no judgment was given by this Court on the merits of the cause.
Mr. Justice WAYw. delivered the opinion of the Court.
it is admitted by the counsel for the defendant in error, that
this case presents upon the record no othei exceptions than such
as were before this Court, in the case of Martha Bradstreet v. Anson Thomas, 12 Peters, 174. That case then rules it, and the
judgment in the Court below must be reversed.
But it is now suggested that both parties desire to obtain the
opinion of the Vourt upon ulterior points in the case, as stated in
their respective briefs, so as to have those points settled for the
new trial of the cause when remanded, for the errors of procedure adjudicated in the former case of Bradstreet and Thomas;
because, from the terms of this Court's opinion in that case, it
seems doubtful if the Court could regularly consider and determine those questions upon the bill of exceptions, as nor framed;
though it be *the mutual desire of the parties to get the Court's
opinion-upon those questions. It is only necessary to say, in
reply to this suggestion, that the Court cannot give any opinion
upon points not properly before it; from those points not being in
the bill of exceptions filed in the record to the Court's ruling below. The proper function of a Court, in a writ of error, is to
pass its judgment upon the points excepted to in the opinion of
the Court below; and not to decide the law of the case, in anticipation of its trial in the Court below.
In respect to costs upon cases brought to this. Court, the rule is,
as may be seen in the forty-seventh rule of the Court prefixed to
8 Peters's Reports; that 'in all cases of reversals of any judgment or decree in this Court, except where the reversal shall be
for want of jurisdiction, costs shall be allowed in this Court for
the plaintiff in error, or appellant, as the case may.be, unless
otherwise ordered by the Court.
The question as to costs in the Circuit Court is not before us.
The judgment in the Court below is reversed.

