JANUARY TERM, 1842.

BANK

OF

COLUMBUS, MIssISSIPPI, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. J SEPH
HALSEY AND OTHERS, DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.

A.

STEPHEN COCKE, FOR THE USE OF THE COMMERCIAL

The constitution of Mississippi declares that clerks ofthe Circuit Court, Probate, and othey
inferior Courts, shall be elect by the electors of the county for two years. The legislature of Mississippi, by statute, declared that when, from sick ness, or other unavoidable
causes, the clerk of the Probate Court shall be unable to attend the Court, the judge
of Probate may appoint a person to act as clerk pro tempore, who shall take an oath
faithfully to execute the duties of the office, &c. Deeds of trust and mortgages are
declared to be void against creditors and purchasers, unless they shall be acknowledged or proved, and delivered to the clerk of the proper Court to be recorded ; and
they shall be valid only from the time they are so delivered to the clerk. Robert
D. Haden was elected clerk of the Court of Probate, for the county of Lowndes, and
during the two years for which he was so elected, h went to the state of Tennessee
on business; and being absent when the Court of Probate sat, William P. Puller
was, by the judge of the Court of Probate, appointed the clerk pro tempore; and
having taken the oath of office, he executed the-duties of clerk during the session
of the Court, and afterwards, until the return of the regulari4 elected clerk. After
the adjournment of the Court, a deed of trust, duly executed, by which certain personal property was'conveyed for the benefit of creditors, was delivered to William
P. Puller, and was by him entered for record. An execution was levied on the
property thus conveyed by a creditor of the party who had executed the deed : the
regularity of the recording of the deed was denied, on the ground that the clerk of
the Probate Court pro tempore, had no authority to receive the deed of trust for
record after the adjournment of the Court of Probate. Held, that the clerk pro
tempore was authorized to record the deed of trust, under the constitution and law
of Mississippi.
In every Insiance in'which a tribunal has decided upon a matter within its regular
jurisdiction, its decision must be presumed proper, and is binding until reversed by
a superior tribunal; and cannot be affected, nor the rights of persons dependent upon it
be impaired, by any collateral proceeding. Cases cited, Thompson v. Tolmie, 2 Peters,
157 ; 'i'he United States v. Arredondo, 6 Peters, 720; Voorhees v. The Bank of the
United States, Ibid. 473; The Philadelphia and Trenton Rail Road Company v.
Stimpson, 14 Peters, 458.

IN error to the Circpit Court of the United States for the southem district of Mississippi.
On the 24th March, 183S, James Carter and Company executed
a deed of trust to William L. Moore, for the purpose of secu'ing
the payment of certain sums of money to the Commercial Bank
of Columbus; by which they conveyed, among other thihgs,

f

SUPRFM

COURT.

[Cocke v, HdNsy.J
certain slaves, tnen in Lowndes county, Mississippi, in trust to
sell the said property for the benefit of the Bank of Columbus.
This dbed was presented for record to the office of the clerk of
the Court of Probate for Lo wndes county, on the 24th day of
March, 1838, the day on which it was'executed; and was endorsed,
"Received in my oFilcp for record on the 24th day of March.
1838.-William P. P~uller, clerk pro tern." And it was afterwards
certified to have been recorded on the same day, Under his hand
and sedl, by William P Puller, clerk pro tern.
. At the time thi record and certincate were made by William P.
Puller, as clerk pro tempore, one Robert D. Haden was the clerk
of probate for the'dounty of Lowndes, duly elected, qualified,,and
sworn. Haden was duly elected in November, 1837, for two
years, and entered upon the di*chargb of his duties some time in the
month of February, 1839. Haden visited the state of Tennessee
on business, and did not return in time to perform the duties of
clerk at the March ferm, 1839. In consequence .of his absence,
Thomas Sampson, Esquire, judge of probates, upon the opening
of the Court of Probate, at March term, 1839, appointed William
P. Puller to act as plerk pro tempore during the absence of Haden.
This deed was recbrded by Puller, during the absence of Haden,
but after the March term of the Court of Probate, not while the
said Court was in session. Haden afterwards returned and resumed' the duties of his office. The above described property
was, by the -trustee, left in the possession of James Carter. and
Company.
At the May term, 1838, of this Cout, judgment in the above
entitled case was obtained against the said James Carter and
Company. Execution was issued uppn this judgment, and was
levied on the assigned negroes, in the possession of James
Carter and Company. Upon the levy being made, the trustee
came forward and claimed this property, and gave the necessary
bond- and this issue is now befor, thd Court to try the right to
the said slaves.
If the deed of trust was properly and legally recorded, then it
is admitted that the judgment in the above case is no lien upon
said slaves, and that the trustee will be entitled to the same;
otherwise, if the deed was not duly and legally recorded, the
slaves are subject to the satisfaction of the said judgment.

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

73

ICocke v.Halsey.]
The Court adjudged that the trust-deed was not duly and
legally recorded;. and that the said acts and proceedings of the
said William P. Puller, as clerk pro tempore, in the recording of
the said trust-deed, was without authority of law, and is altogether
void; and so instructed the jury.
To this opinion the plaintiff excepted, and the jury having
found a verdict according to the opinion of the Court, the plaintiff prosecuted this writ of error to the judgment of the Circuit
Court on the verdict.
The case was submitted to the Court, on'a printed argument,
by Mr. Cocke, for the-plaintiff ; and was argued at the bar by Mr.
Key, for the defendant.
In his argument, Mr. Cocke said,
The question involved in this case is, whether the deed of trust
mentioned in the record, was properly -ecorded, This is -to be
determined, mainly, by the local laws of Mississippi. There are,
nevertheless, some elementary principles involved.
The statute and constitutional law of Mississippi, Which is supposed to bear upon this subject most directly, may be found hshereafter pointed out. By the act of 13th June, !822, dee'ds of
conveyance were required t6 be recorded bythe clerk of the County
Court of the proper, county. Alden's Revision of the Laws of
Mississippi, 297, sec. .1. This, b- the same section, is declared to
be in the county in which the land is situated.
By sec. 4, p. 298, deeds in relation to personal property shall
be recorded in that county in which such personal property shall
.remain. Same page, sec. 5, provides that deeds of trust and
mortgages shall take effect from the time they are delivered to
the clerk to be recorded, and then only; but other deeds shall take
effect from the time they were sealed and delivered, if recorded
within three months. Sections. , 7, 8, 9, 10, prescribe more in
detail the duties of the clerk. By the act of-the 28th June, 1822,
Alden's Revision, p. 183, sec. 7, this language is used: "During
the vaca: cy in the office of clerk of a County Court, and during
the unavoidable absence of the principi1 clerk and his deputies,
if any he have, the Court in term time, or the presiding justice
thereof in vacation, mpy appoint a clerk pro tempore, who, after
taking the necessary oath of office, shall be authorized to perform
VOL. XVI.-G
10

SUPREME COURT.
(Cocke v.Halsey.]

the duties of a clerk, and during his continuance in office shall be
entitled to all the fees thereof;"
By the act of the 16th of February, 1828, Alden's Revision,
p. 194, the judge of Probate of the county and the justices of the
County Court then in commission, constitute the Court denominated the County and Probate Court; and the latter part of the
same section provides that the clerk of the County Court then in
office should be clerk of said Court.
Thus the law on this subject stood, .until the year 1833, when
the revised constitution of Mississippi was adopted. At p. 39,
Alden's Revision, will be found the revised constitution. Sec. 4,
title "Schedule," provides that "all laws then in force in this
state, not repugnant to this constitution, shall continue to operate
until they shall expire by their own limitation, or be altered or
repealed by the legislature.",
By article 4 of the constitution, (Judicial Department,) sec. 19,
Alden's Revision, p. 34, "the clerk of the High Court of Errors
and Appeals shall be appointed by said Court for the term of four
years; and clerks of the Circuit, Probate, and other inferior
Courts, shall be elected by the qualified electors of the respective
counties, and. shall hold their offices for the term of two years."
By article 5 of the revised constitution, (Executive Department,) sec. 13, Alden's Revision, p. 34, "all vacancies not provided for in this constitution, shall be filled in such manner as the
legislature may prescribe."
By the act of the 2d of March, 1833, Alden's Revision, p. 198,
see. 70, "all vacancies, either in the office of judge or clerk of
the said Court, shall be filled by election at the several precincts
of the county, to be held at such time as the board of county
police may prescribe, and on such public notice as may be provided for by law."
By the same act of the second of March, 1833, Allen's Revision,
p. 199, sec. 73, it is provided, "that, in case the clerk shall be at
any time unable, from sickness or unavoidable causes, to attend
said Court, it shall be lawful for the judge of probates to appoint
a clerk, to act as clerk pro tempore, who shall take an oath faithfully to discharge all the duties of his office, and for services
rendered by the said clerk he shall be entitled to the fees allowed
by law to tbeclerk of said Court."

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

75-

[Cocke v. Halsey.]
For the purpose of revetsihg the opinion of the Circuit Court,
Mr. Cooke, for the plaintiff in error, contended,
1. That the deed of trust was properly recorded.
2. That the appointment of William P. Puller "clerk pro
tempore," was in conformity with the laws of Mississip 1i, and
valid.
3. That the regularity of his appointment cuuiu nut be collaterally inquired into.
4. That it was competent for the Probate Court to make the
appointment.
5. That as .Puller was clerk de facto, by appointment, acting
under colour of office, his acts were valid as respects the rights
of third persons and the community; whether he was clerk de jure
or not.
6.. That it is not competent for the federal tribunals to declare
a state law, regulating her local and municipal police, void or
otherwise unconstitutional; unless in conformity with the decisions of state tribunals, when the. Constitution of the United
States is in no manner contravened.
1. That Puller's right to discharge the duties of clerk continued
during the absence of Haden, and until Haden. took the office,
and resumed the duties of it.
To ascertain the intention of the legislature, laws on analogous
subjects may be safely referred to. If this is allowable, we will
find a similar provision in reference -to the clerks of the Circuit
Courts. Thus, (Alden's Revision, page 118, sec. 13,) that "during
the vacancy of the office of clerk in any Circuit Court of Law, and
during the unavoidable absence of the principal clerk and his
deputies, if any he have, the judge thereof, either in term-time,
or in vacation, may appoint a clerk pro tempore, who, after
taking the necessary oath of office, shall be authorized to perform
the duties of a clerk, and, during his continuance in office, shall
be entitled to all the fees thereof." So if, from any cause, there
be a just exception to the sheriff, the coroner may act; or, if the
cause extends to the coroner, then a justice of the peace may perform the duty. Alden's Revision, p. 334, see. 15.
In the case. before us, the agreement shows that Haden, the
clerk elected, was absent in the state of Tennessee. It was
true there was no vacancy. Haden was the inrumbent elect,

SUPREME COURT.
[Cocke v. Halsey.]

and consequently there could be no election under the law.
His absence was, however, about to create a kind of interregnum
in the discharge of the duties of clerk. To prevent this, the statute
above cited appropriately interposed itself, and provided a clerk
pro tempore. The power of the judge of probate to do this is
the question. It is contended1 That the appointment of William P. Puller, clerk pro tern.
of the Probate Court of the county of Lowndes, was in conformity with the law of Mississippi, and, in the absence of Haden,
the clerk elect, was directly required by the statute to be done.
See Alden's Revision, page i83, sec. 7, and page 199, sec. 73,
above cited.
2. The appointment of the Court is itself conclusive evidence
that the absence of laden was an unavoidable absence, and
cannot 'n6w anywhere be questi,,ned. The Court which made
the pro tern. appoiDtment was alone competent to decide the
question; and, having made the appointment, its determination
is conclusive, either that Haden was sick" or absent from unavoidable causes; and the propriety of that decision cannot now anywhere be impeached, or collaterally inquired into. Stimpson v.
Th6 Trenton Railroad. Company, 14 Peters, 458.
If it be true that there can .be no clerk pro tern. of the Probate
Court, so there could be no clerk pro tern. of the Circuit Court;
nor could a coroner be allowed in any contingency to discharge
the duties of sheriff, nor a justice of the peace to discharge the
duties of coroner. The federal judiciary would thus undertake
to determine that the whole system of the Mississippi legislation,
in seeking to pre.vent an interregnum in the offices, and a failure
of justice to her citizens in"her municipal police, would be invalid.
It cannot be a sound construction of the constitution of Mississippi to suppose that if a clerk should, at any time, be unable,
from sickness or other unavoidable causes, to attend to the duties
of his office, the framers of the constitution intended that the
interest and business of the country should be suspended. If the
constitution is to be construed as denying legislative action as to
matters of this kind, not provided for in the constitution, then it
must be considered that the convention intended that if the clerk
elect shquld be unable, from sickness .or unavoidable causes, to

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

77

[Cocke v. Halsey.]

attend to the duties of his office, the citizen for the time should
be without any power to perfect his legal rights, by having his
deeds recorded; in other words, that as a trust-deed, under the
laws of Mississippi, caA have no validity until it be delivered to
the clerk to be recorded, the convention must have intended
that if the clerk should be unable, from sickness or otlher unavoidable. causes, to attend to the duties, that, during that- time, no
right could be created by way of trust-deed; and if the sickness,
or other unavoidable causes, should continue longer than three
months, titles by deed.should be ineffectual altogether. It is no
answer to say the clerk might hikve a deputy. In the case of the.'
clerk, there was no deputy; nor does the constitution provide any
more for a deputy clerk than it does for a clerk pro tempore.
3. But if it be contended that there is no such officer as clerk
pro tern. known to the constitution of Mississippi, (as such was
the opinion of the Court below,) then it would f6l1ow that, as the
legitimate business of a constitution is to regulate the general
organic law, the duties of regulating in detail the various tribunals.
and jurisdictions created by it, have been wisely left to legislative
discretion and action. The legislature having provided for the
very state of things here in controversy, the counsel has not.been
enabled to discover any thing in the constitution of M ississippi interdicting the authority of the legislature on the subject.
4. The constitution nowhere requires deeds to be recorded a,
all, nor did (as it is believed) the common law. The legislature
might dispense with the recording of deeds altogether; or they
might have em recorded-by a notaxy public, city magistrate, or
by any private citizen by name, and there would certainly be
nothing unconstitutional in it. 'But the legislature have thought
proper to give the recording of deeds to the clerks of probates,
and, in certain contingencies, to the clerkb pro tern. of that Court.
to be appointed by the judges of probates. There cannot, it
seems, be. any thing wrong in this; and it is certainly the
manner in which the discretion of the legislature has - been exer,cised; and nothing is known Which would justify: the Court below,
or this Court, in saying they have ben-wrong.
5. The recording of deeds is not an incident of any Court, or
its jurisdiction. If even it were not competent for the legislature

to provide for a clerk pro tern. of the Probate Court, to be apG2

SUPREME COURT.
[Cocke v. Halsey.]

pointed as to the matters peculiar to the jurisdiction of that tribu
nal, yet there is nothing in the recording of deeds which can, by
any possibility, enter into such considerations.
6. The terms, during the unavoidable absence ot the princi
pal clerk, as mentioned" in sec. 7, page 183, and that in case
the clerk shall be at any time unable, from sickness or unavoidable causes, to attend said Court, it shall be lawful for the judge
of probate to appoint a person to act as clerk pro tempore, who
shall take an oath faithfully to discharge all the duties of his office;
and for services rendered by said clerk,.he shall be entitled to the
fees allowed by law to the clerk of said Court, as mentioned in
sec. 73, page 1.99; canflot'justly be limited to the term of the
Court which made the appointment. It is true the law requires
the Court to make the appointment; but the last section defines
the tenure of the office to continue commensurate with the causes
which made it necessary to make the appointment; otherwise
he could not discharge all of the duties of his office. Again: It
is the universal principle, in the construction of statutes, to regard
the reason and spirit of the law, and the causes which induced
the legislature to enact it. In the matter before us, it was most
obviously the motive with the legislature to prevent an interregnum in the offices, and to hinder a failure of justice. The
business confined to the term of the Court is not one hundredth
part, in interest and amount, of that which, by the laws, is
allowed to be done by the clerk in vacation. If the legislature
intended to provide for the matters of less importance only, it
appears they must have been guilty of extreme ignorance, folly,.
or wickedness; the which, this Court would reluctantly ascribe
to them. This Court will give the statut6 the construction
claimed.
7. It is confidently believed that the law is every way regular
and proper, and that there does not exist any possible valid objec.tion to the deed, or the time or manner of its execution, probate, or to the recording of it. But WhateveL may be the nature
of the legal rights or liabilities of Haden and Puller, as to the
bffice, Puller being the incinibent by appointment, discharging
the duties of the office under colour of title, being the clerk de,
facto, whether he were clerk de jure or not, all of his acts, so far
as the rights of the community and third persons are concerned,

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

79

[Cocke v. Halsey.)

are valid. The King v. Leslie, Andrews' Rep. 163; Taylor v.
Skrine, 2 S. C. Rep. 696; Jones v. Gibson, I N. II,Rep. 268,
and the authorities there; Keyser et al. v. Kessam, 2 Rawles's
Rep. 139;' Buckham v. Reigles, 15 Mass. Rep. 180; Nason v.
Wellingham, 15 Mass. Rep. 170; Fowler v. Babee, 9"Mas. Rep.
231; The People v. Collins, 7 Johns. Rep. 550; 7 American
Common Law Reports by Wheeler, 142; Biddle v. The County
of Bedford, 7 Serg. and R. 392 and 393. Indeed, this doctrine
is now regarded as settled, as elementary in pri,.iple, and no
longer open to discussion.
8th. The District Federal Court of Mississippi was not, nor is
this Court competent. to declare a state law unconstitutional,
which is in conformity with the decisions of the state tribunals;
unless some .provision of the Constitution of the United .States has
been contravened. As there is nothing in this law in the least
incompatible with the Constitution of the United States, it was
the duty of the Court below, and is now the duty of this Court,
to give effect to the state laws. Jackson .v. Lamphire, 3 Peters,
289; Shelby et al. v. Guy, 11 Wheat. Rep. 361.
If this is not correct, it appears to involve the right of the federal
tribunals to enter into the local, the municipal police of the several states, and abolish it-a doctrine unprecedented inits assumptions, and one whichwill find no toleration in this Court.
The legitimacy of appointments, elections, or qualifications of
an incumbent in office, cannot be inquired into, collaterally; but
their acts are valid, until their acts are regularly superseded. If
this were not so, the naming of only two of the officers, required
to be elected under the constitution of Mississippi, will show us
to what infinity of confusion, and inextricable difficulties, the doctrine contended for by the opposite party would lead. For
example: By the third section of the fifth article of the co'nstitution of Mississippi, (Alden's Revision, p. 33,) the governor is
reqaired to be at least thirty years' of age; that he shall have
been a citizen of the United States for twenty years, anT shall
have resided in the state at least five years next preceding the
day 'of his election.
Mr. Key, for the defendants in error.
1. By the constitution of Mississippi, the act of the second of

SUPREME COURT.
[Cocke v. Halsey.]

March, 1833, of the Mississippi legislature, is void. The case
stated shows there was no vacancy in the office. If there was,
the constitution shows how the vacancy was to be filled, and that
the legislature could not alter it. Therefore, there was no power
in the Court to make the appointment; and Puller was not clerk
of probates, having authority to receive and record the deed.
2. Again. Suppose the law valid, what authority.did it give?
Only to meet the exigency, and act as clerk during the session of
the Court, (one week,) this being the only evil the law sought
to remedy; and as the power to appoint was only for such specific purpose, and on a particular contingency, such purpose
and the occarrence of such contingency cannot be presumed, but
must appear on the, face of the proceedings.
Mr. Justice Story, and this Court have decided that otherwise it
is a nullity. 1 East, 64; 8 T. Rep. 178; 4 Wheat. 77; 6 Wheat.
.127; 2 Peters, 523.
3. Again. What authority did it give? Only for the session
Qf the Court, pro tempore; as if it had said, till the end of the
term. This was all that ought to have been done; all that was
necessary; and all that was done.
If William P. Puller, therefore, on such an appointment, held
over, it was the usurpation of the office, without authority, or
the colour of authority; and then all his, acts are nullities.
4. And this answers the argument and the authorities cited to
show that Puller was clerk de facto, though not de jure; and that
his official acts, as regards third persons, are valid.
He was not clerk de facto undet colour of right, but a
usurper; or holding over after his authority was gone, and there
was no colour for his official acts.
What is an officer de fact*o, holding under colour of right, fo
whose official acts this sanction is given?
1. Those.who hold under an authorized appointing power, but
irregularly or improperly appointed, or not duly qualified.
2. Where the office is not full.
But here there was no authority to appoint. And if there
was, the time of his appointment was over; and he was holding
wrongfully, without any colour of right. So is 15 Mass.;
5 Yerg. 271 ; I East, 79 ; King v. Corporation of. Bedford, Andrews, 163.

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

81

(Cocke v. Halsey.]
S. He could not be clerk de facto, because there was then a
cleik de jure; and there-cannot be both at the same time. Suppose there are acts done by Haden at the same time, (and non
constat, that there were not,) such acts would be valid.
4. ie was not clerk de facto, because he did not take the name
of the office clerk pro tempore., The recording law requires the
clerk to do the act. Here it is done by a clerk pro tempore. No
such officer recognised by the constitution,
5. Again, If hd was clerk de facto, he could only do necessary acts; attend the Courf. This was all he need have done,
agnd all he was in any way authorized to do, and for a liriiled
time. It was-so held-in Andrews, 166, 173; King v. Lisle,
Andrews, 163.
Finally, it is settled, by the Mississippi law of 1840. This
shows tha. the legislature have recognised the rights of those
with ,vhom the official ats of Puller interfered; have declared
his acts void, where they interfered with such rights, and that
such rights shall be-secured. This is a Mississippi statute, and a
legislative construction of it; and the Courts there will no doubt
respect this act of 1840: and this Court will not interfere and
advise them to nullifir it.
Mr. Justice D ANIflL delivered the opinion of the Court.
This cause comes before this Court upon a writ of error to the
Circuit Court of the Unfted States, for the southern district of
Mississippi.
The statement of the case upon which the questions presented
here for decision arise, is, as agreed by the parties upon .the
r6ecord, substantially the following:
On the 24th of March, in the year 1838, JamesCarter and
Lewis Grigsby, merchants, executed a deed of trust to one William L. Moore, as triistee, to secure the payriient of certain sums
of money to the Commercial Bank of Columbus. This deed was
regularly acknowledged by the grantors;before a justice of the
peace, on the 29th of March, 1839, and delivered to one William
P. Puller, who had been appointed clerk protemplore of the Probate Court of the county of Lowndes, in said state, and who
recorded the deed in the office of the clerk of probate for said
county, and endorsed thereon a certificate of record, signed Wil-

82

SUPREME COURT.
[Cocke v, Haly.]

iam P. Puller, clerk pro tempore. That at the time this record
and certificate were made by Puller, as clerk pro tempore, 'dne
Robert Haden was the clerk of probate for the county of
Lowndes, dulr elected, qualified, and sworn: that Haden was
elected in November, 1837, fbr two years, and entered on the discharge of his duties in the month ofFebruary, 1838 ; that Haden'
visited the state of Tennessee on business, and did not return in
time to perform the duties of clerk, at the March term of 1838.
In consequence of his absence, the judge of probate, upon commencing the Court of Probate of the March term of 1838, appointed Puller tb act as clerk during the absence of Haden. The
deed of trust to Moore was recorded by Puller during the
absence of Haden; but after the March term of the Court. Haden afterwards returned and resumed the duties of his office.
"The original trustee, William L. Moore, having died, the
Superior Court of Chancery, of the 9tate of Mississippi, at the
January term; 1839, duly appointed Stephen Cocke, the plaintiff
in error, trustee in lieu of, Moore.
At the May term of the Circuit Court of the United States for
the southern district of Mississippi, the defendants in error obtained a judgment against James Carter and Company. Execution was sued out upon this jidgment, and-levied by the marshal
on the property mentioned in the trust-deed, in the possession of
Carter and Company. Upon the levy bcing made, Stephen Cocke,
the trustee, claimed the property, gave the bond required in such
cases by the law of Mississippi; and an issue was duly made to
try the right to the property. Upon the trial of this issue, the
following question was submitted to the Court for its opinion
thereon, viz.: That if the deed of trust was properly ant ]egally
recorded, then it was admitted that the judgment in question was
not a lien upon the property conveyed by the deed, and the
trustee was entitled to the same; otherwise, if the deed was not
legally recorded, the property was subject to satisfaction of the
judgment. - Upon this question, the Court ba1ow adjudged that
the trust-deed was not duly recorded; that the acts of Puller, as
clerk pro tempore, in recording the deed, were without authority
of law and altogether void; and so instructed the jury. To this
opinion of the Court, thus given, the plaintiff in error excepted;
and brings that opinion before this Court for examination.

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

83

[Cocke v. Halsey.]

The fourth article of the constitution of Mississippi, thirty-first
section, declares, that "the judicial" power of that state shall be
vested in one High Court of Errors and Appeals and snch other
Courts of Law and Equity as shall be afterwards provided for
in that constitution. The same article, after authorizing and
ordaining various superior tribunals in which the judicial powers
shall be vested, at length, in the eighteenth section, declares, that
there shall be established in each county in the state a Court of
Probates, the judge whereof shall be elected by the qualified
electors of the county, for a period of two years. The nineteenth
section of the same article declares, that the clerks of the Circuit,
Probate, and other inferior Courts, shall also be elected by the
qualified electors of the county, for the period of two years. See
Laws of Mississippi, by Howard and Hutchinson, 24, 26.
The legislature of the state, in organizing their judiciary, as it
was indispensable they should do, (as the constitution had limited
its cwn action to the direction that the Courts therein named
should be established, leaving their organization and distribution
to the legislative authority,) by a s .tute passed in March, 1833.,
and by sections 1, 2, and 3, of that statute, established a Court
of Probates in each county of the state; provided for the election
of judges and clerks of the several Courts; prescribed to them the
oath of office they should take, and to the clerks the bonds they
should ex "ute, before assuming their official functions. Laws
of Mississippi, 469.
By the eighth section of the statute, the legislature declared,
that in case the clerk of probate "shall be at any time unable from
sickness, or other unavoidable causes, to attend said Court, it
shall be lawful for the'judge of probate to appoint a person to
act as clerk pro tempore, who shall take an oath faithfully to
discharge all the duties of his office," &c.; vide p. 470, Laws of
Mississippi. By th3 fifth section of the same statute, vacancies
in the offices of judge and clerk are to be filled as the original
appointments wete made" viz., by election.
By the fifth section of another statute of Migsissippi, concerning real estate and conveyances, passed June 13, 1822, it is
declared, that deeds of trust and mortgages shall be valid as to
subsequent purchasers for valuable consideration without notice,
and as to all creditors, from the time when such deeds of trust or

SUPREME COURT.
'[ocke v. Halsey.]

mortgages shall have, been acknowledged, proved, or certified,
aid delivered to the clerk of the proper Court to be recorded,
and from that time only. From this provision the question of
priority arises.
In support of the decision of the Circuit Court, it has been
insisted that the power of the judge of the Probate- Court to
appoint a clerk of probate pro termpore, is limited 'to the term of
the Court, and to the exigences and necessities of the term; and
does not extend to a period beyond the term, nor to any acts performed by the person so appointed out of Court.
From this position, claimed by counsel as a legitimate deduction
from the statute, it is argued that the clerk, having been appointed
by an exercise of power wholly illegal and void, nay, even without colour of authority, his acts, too, must be merely void, and
nof entitled to the effct6 properly-attributable to the acts of one
who may be considered as an officer de facto', in contradistinction
to him whose commission and qualification are in all respects regular, and who therefore may be called an officer de jure and
de facto.
In reasoning from the language of ihe statute, it would seem
difficult to perceive dny thing in it which limits the appointment
pro tempore, to th&session of the Court. The expression in the
law is, "from sickness or unavoidable causes;" now, it is quite
as probable that these causes would operate beyond, as well as
during the continuation of the Court. The^ only fair inference
deducible from the words of the law is. that the causes requiring
an appointment, should, like the appointment itself, be temporary;
so that the provision of the statute should not be perverted to
cover a permanent disqualification of the regular clerk, and thereby
prevent his removal or the election of a successor, under proper
circumstances. The precise duration of that temporary cause,
it could hardly have been the intention of the lawmakers to
'define. To ascribe to them an intention to restrict the duties of
a clerk pro tempore to the session of the Court, would be imput-ing to them an act of utterly useless legislation; since none can
fail to perceive, on looking into the law, that the duties of the clerk
of probate are as extensive and as important, during vacation,
as they are during term-time; if, indeed, they are not more so.
Several authorities have been cited in argument, some from

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

85

[Cooke v. Halsey.]
the English and some from the American cases, in order to show
that the recordingof the trust-Aeed in question by .the 6lrk of
probate qannot be supported even as the act of the clerk de facto.
These authorities, however, do not establish the position they
have been bxought to maintain; andiin some instances, they
operate directly against it. The rsl case relied on (and it is a
leading case) is that of The King t. Lisle, Andrews, 163, 174.
This was a quo warranto to remove a burgess of Christ Church,
on the ,round that he had been nominated by one Goldwire,
calling himself mayor of the corporation, when h6 h;d never
been appointed mayor. The Court say, the nomination by Goldwire could not be supported, because he was not, even by any
colourable title or pretext mayor of the corporation; evidently
putting hig act on the same footing witlh an attem~pt at usurpation by any other private person There is a remark by the
Court in delivering its opinion, which is regarded as not -without its bearing upon the present case ;- and that remark is this,
"that supposing Goldwire was mayor de facto,, ret the acts here
found fo be performed by him are not good; because they were
not necessary for the preservatidn of the corppration." In these
cases the Court say, "the proper distinction is -between such acts
as are necessary and for the good of the body, which comprehend
judicial and ministerial acts, and such as are arbitrary and voluntary." The second case from the English books is that of Knight
and Wife v. The Corporation of'Wells, 1 Lutwyche, 509, 519.
This was an action of debt against the corporation, upon their
bond to the wife of the plaintiff; and the Qbjection taken to the
recovery was, that the person who put the. corporate seal to the
bond, was not qualified by the charter to be mayor. He had
been elected.to the office of mayor, however. The case seems
to have been much considered, for it was twice argued; and
it was resolved by all the Court, that .although. the mayor
might not be qualified according to the charter, yet he-had been
elected, and, in virtue of his election, was mayor de facto,-and
that therefore all judicial and ministerial acts performed by him
were good. The cases of the People v. Collins, 7 Johns. 549, and of McKinstry v. Turner, 9 Johns. 135, are in strictest accordance with'
the - authority from Lutwyche. In the People v. Collins, the
VOL. XVI.-H

86

SUPREME COURT, 1842.
[Cocke v. Halsey.]

Qourt say, in speaking of the powe.A exercised by the officers
whose acts were impeached; "They were commissioners de facto,
since they came into office by colour of title; and it is a well
settled prciprle of law, that the acts of such persons are valid
when they concern the public, or third persons who have an
interest in the acts done; and this rule is adopted to prevent the'
failure of public justice. Thelimitation of this rule is as to such
acts as- are arbitrary and voluntary, and do not affect the public
utility. .The doctrine on this subject is to be found at large in the
case'of The King' v. Lisle, Andrews, 263." So, too, in 15 Mass.
173, Bucknam v. Ruggles, this matter is very fully treated. The
Court say that, although the officer did not comply with the requisites of the constitution, yet, having been appointed, and ihus
having colour of title, his acts are valid in respect, to third persons who may be interested in such acts: that such a rule' is
necessary to prevent a failure of justice. Besides, the officer's
title to his office ought not to be determined in a collateral 'way.
In addition to other ahthorities to this point, is quoted 3 Cru.Dig.
tit. Officer, see.. 71, 75, for the principle that, by the test and
corporation acts in England, all persons are disabled in law to all
intents and purposes to hold' certain offices, unless they take the
oaths required; yet, notwithstanding this disabling clause, it has
be'en held that the acts of officers not qualified by thQse'statutes
may be .valid as to strangers. The case of Williams et al. v.
Peyton's Lessee, cited for the. plaintiff in error, from 4 Wheat.
77, is thought to have no application to the question now under
consideration; all that was ruled in that case was this, that where
a title depends Upon the acts of a ministerial officer to be performed in pais, proof of the peformance of those acts is necessary to sustain such title.; a principle which none perhaps will
dispute; but, whether affirmed or denied, cannot apply to the
present case. So, too, the case of Davidson and another v. Gill,
cited from 1 East, 64, having been ruled exclusively upon a
provisioi of the .statute 13 Geo. 3, c. 78, requiring that certain
proceedings of justices, should, in relation to closing and opening
ways, in order to give them validity, appear on the face of those
proceedings, in a prescribed schedule or form set forth in the statute; is considered as wholly inapplicable.
If then the appointment and the acts of the clerk of robate

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

7

[Cocke v. Halsey]

depended, for their validity upon the principles' which apply to
the acts of officers de facto, a just interpretation of the authorities
adducedinbehalf of the plaintiffinerrorgivesvaliditytoboth. That
the judge had power to appoint a clerk pro tempore, seems never
to have been questioned; that he did appoint is equally indisputable: the irregularity alleged is in the failure to limit the appointment to the term of the Court. Admit, for the present, that
the appointment should have been thus limited, and that the
clerk has admitted the deed to probate after the term; .yet,in
his character of clerk, was he not within the very definition of
the authorities, and within the concessions of the counsel, clerk
de facto, acting colore officii; and mnUst not his acts therefore be
valid so far as regards third persons who are interested in them?
An affirmative answer to this inquiry is unavoidable.
But the appointment of this officer, and his 'acts when so appointed, rest upon a foundation still broader and firiner than that
which sustains the actings of an officer de facto. By the law of
Mississippi, the judge had the power to appoint, pro. tenpere,
whenever from sickness or unavoidable causes the clerk could
not attend.
By. the investiture of that power, it remained with the judge,
in the exercise ofjudicial discretion, to decide upon the propriety
and necessity fof the execution of the power: he did decide upon
them; and he-must be presumed to'have decided properly.
The correct legal principle applicable to such proceedings is
this: That in every instance in which a tribunal has decided upon
a imatter within its regular jurisdiction, its decision must be presumed proper, and is binding until it shall be regularly reversed
by a superior authcfrity; and cannot be affected, nor the rights
of persons, dependent upon it be impaired, by any collateral proceeding. This principle has been too long settled to admit of
,doubt at this diy, and has been repeatedly and expressly recognised in this Court, as in the cases of Thompson v. Tolmie and
others,. 2 Peters, 157; The United States v. Arredondo, 6 Peters,
720; Voorhees v. The Bank of the United States, 10 Peters, 473,
and The Philadelphia and Trenton Rail Road Company v. Stimpson, 14 Peters, 458. It cannot then be permitted, in this collateral
inquiry to insist that the judge has either misapprehended or
transcended his authority: he has exercised the discretion vested

88

SUPREME COURT;
(Cocke v. Haley.1

in him by the statute; that discretion has led him to the conclusion, that the necessity for an appointment was coextensive with
the absence of the ordinary clerk, an absence deemed by him
unavoidable; 'and the discretion of the judge pro hae vice, at any
rate must be conclusive. But beyond these legal presumptions,
this Court, upon a review of the constitution and statute of Mississippi, are satisfied that the appointment of the clerk of probate
pro tempore, was fully warranted in the maimer and to the extent
in which it was made. They therefore decide that the decision
of the Circuit Court for the Southern District of Mississippi is
erroneous, and accordingly do reverse the same.
This cause came on to be heard.on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, It is now here ordered and adjudged by this Court, that
the judgment of the said Circuit .Court in this cause be, and the
same is hereby, reversed, with costs; and that this cause be, and
the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court, with
directions for further proceedings to be had therein, in conformity
to this opinion, and according to law and justice.

