JANUARY TERM, 1842.

RIcHARD

3.

WATKINS, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. THE LESSEE
OF OLIVER HOLMAN ET AL.

Ejectment to recover possession of a lot in the city of Mobile, Alabama. The defendants, in the Circuit Court, claimed title to the land under Lucy Landry, who was the
devisee of one Geronio; who having been in possession of the lot at the comer of St.
Francis and Royal streets, occupied it un1's his death. On the arrival of Lucy Landry
at age, she occupied the lot as her own py.perty; and in 1818 she sold and conveyed
it by deed to certain persons, stating the eastern boundary in the deed to be the Mobile river. These persons on the same day conveyed the premises to Oliver Holman,
who'entered on it and improved it, by erecting houses and a wharf upon it; and continued to occupy it as a merchant in copartnership with one Charles Brown, who lived
in Boston, until December, 1822, when be died; leaving, as his heirs, the lessors of
the plaintiff. The possession of Lucy Landry of the lot commenced in 1800, and
extended on Royal street, and on the cast followed the high'water mark on their ler.
The land was nbt subject to inundation, though in many places the water ran adross
it. Until the improvements made by Holm-an, the lot was not susceptible of occupancy. There was a ridge of high land formed of shells and artificial deposits, to the
east of which, to the river, the lot was situated; and the ridge was- protected.by the
Spanish authorities, no person being permitted by them to improve on the ground,
or to remove the earth. It was called "The King's highway," or landing-place.
Questions as to the title of the proprietors of the adjacent lots above Water street, to
the lots extending to the river, prevailed until 1824; when on the 26th May, 1824, a
law was passed. which granted the lots known as water lots under the Spanish
government to the owners of the aja-ent grounds. Thd improvement- were made
by Holman in 1819 or 1820. The defendants below gave in evidence, to maintain
their title, the title to them from Lucy Landry, through her grantees to Oliver Holman. a title-bond from Holman to Brown for half of the lot in controversy, by
which a deed was to be executed two years after the date of the bond; and an act of
the legislature of Alabama, passed in December, 1823, after the decease of Holman,
authorizing the administratrix of Holman, then residing in Boston, where administrtion of the estate of the deceased had been granted to her, to sell the rel estate of
which he died scised, in the city of Mobile, for the payment of his debts, the estatp
being insolvent; a deed made in pursuance of a sale of the premises under the act
of Assembly and in conformity to the provisions thereof; and also the redord of certain proceedings in the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, wherein a license was
given to the administratrix to make a deed in pursuance of the title-bond to Brown,
and the deed made under this authority. The questions which arose in the case,
and on which the Court deci~led were: First, whether the act of the legislature of
Alabama, authorizing the sale of the estate of Holman, was constitutional and valid.
Second, whether the proceedings in the Supreme Court of Massachusetts were
operative, and authorized the administratrix to convey the title. Third, whether a
volume of state papers published under the authority of Congress was evidence.
Fourth, whether the lessors of the plaintiff below had established a legal title. 'Fifth,

VOL. XVI.-C

4

26

SUPREME COURT.
[Watkins v. Holman et al.]

whether the defendants in the Circuit Court had not established a title in themselves,
independent of and adverse to the title they had derived under Oliver Helman.
The relation of landlord and tenant in nowise exist between the vendor and vendee;
and this is especially the case where a conveyance has been executed.
A mere intruder on land is limited to his actual possession; and the rights of a riparian
proprietor do not attach -to him. The case of The Mayor of New Orleans v. The
United States, 10 Peters, 662, cited.
The act of Congress of 26th May, 1824, relinquished the rights of the United States,
whatever they were, in the lot in question, to the proprietor of the front lot,
A volume of state papers published under the authority of an act of Congress, and containing the authentication required by the act, is legal evidence. In the United
States, in all public matters, the journals of Congress, and of the state legislatures
are evidence, and also the reports which have been sanctioned and published by authority. This publication does not make that evidence, which intrinsicilly is not so;
but it givest i a most authentic form certain papers and documents. The very
highest authority attaches to state papers published under the sanction of Congress.
The deed executed by the administratrix of Holnan, in pursuance of the license given
by the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, by which nearly a moiety of the property
of Holman, in Mobile, described in the title-bond to Brown, was conveyed to Brdwn,
was inoperative. The deed was executed under a decree or order of the Supreme
Court in Massachussetts, and by virtue of a statute of that state. It is not pretended
that it was authorized by any law of Alabama: Lnd no principle is better settled,
that the disposition of real estate, whether by deed, descent, or by any other mode,
must be governed by the laws of the state where the land is situated.
A Court of Chancery, acting in personam, may well decree the conveyance of land in
any other state, and may enforce their decree by process against the defendant. But
neither the decree itself, nor any conveyance under it, except by the person in whom
the title is vested, can operate beyond the jurisdiction of the Court.
It is not perceived why a Courrt of law should regard a resulting trust more than any
other equitable rights; and any atiempt to give effect to these rights at law, through
the instrumentality of a jury, must lead to confusion and uncertainty. Equitable
and legal jurisdictions have been wisely separated ; and the soundest maxims of jurisprudence require each to be exercised in its appropriate sphere.
The act of the legislature of Alabama, which authorized Sarah Holman, resident in Boston, the administratrix of Oliver Holman, to sell the estate of which Holman
died seised in the city of Mobile, was a valid act: and the deed made under that
btatute, according to its provisions, was legal and operative,-and was 'authorized by
the constitution of Alabama.
On the death of the ancestor the land owned by him descends to his heirs. They
hold it subject to the payment of the debts of the ancestor, in those states where it
is liable to such debts. The heirs cannot alien the land to the prejudice of creditors
IA fact, aild in law, they fhave no right to the real estate of their ancestors, except
that of possession, until the creditors shall be paid.
.lo objection is perceived to the power of the legislature to subjecting the lands of a
deceased person to the payment of his debts, to the exclusion of the personal property. The legislature regulates descents, and the conveyance of real estate. To
define the rights of debtor and creditor, is their common duty; the whole range of
remedies lies within their province.

JANUARY TflRMA842.

9

[WatkLh~o RVUM at anl

Ir error to-the Cireuit, Court of the United States for'the southem district of Alabama.
This was an action of ejectment, brought, by the defendants ,.
Who were plaintiffs in the Court below, to recover poss, sion"of
stores and a lot of ground rthe city of Mobile. The. declaration
was in the conmon form. The: plea, the general issue. A ver-.
diet was rendered in .tie -Ciciiit Cow for the plaintiffs, and the
defendant prosecuted this writ of error.
Upo4 the rl.t; the plaintiffs below proVed that one- Geronio
was in possession of a lot in the city of Mobile; at the corner of,,
St. Francis and Royal streets;" that he,occufpied the same til his
death, when he gave the same to one Lucy Landry ; that about
the year 1788;, Simon'-:Landry took charge o thd lot for his
daughter Lucy, and when-she came to woman's estate, she'used
and'oeupied the same as her property.."-The plintiff- further
proved that, in i818, Lucy Landry conveyed the Iot'tq'McKhisie
and, Swett, hy a deed, in which the eastern boundary was laid
down as the Mobile, river, and,.included the premises-in question
in thiscase. 'On the same day, McKjnsie and Swett conveyed
the property to Oliver Holman, who. took, possession in 1818,
and erected houses and a wha'rfupon the lot, and occupied the
samqe as a merchant in copartnership. with, one Charles. Brown;
Brown residing inBoston,.and.HolnIan in Mobile. Holnan died
in. December, 1822, leaving three children. Oliver, with a grandchild of Holman, .are now the .legal heirs, of Oliver toimad,
deceased, and are the lessois* of the deifendants in error.'
. The defendants in the Circuit Court, in order to show title in
them to one.equal undivided moiety of the premises in question,
exhibited a bond executed- by Oliver Holman, the ancestof 'of
the plaintiff in the ejectment, on the 29th, September, 1821, to
Charles Brown; by which Oliver Holman bound himself to give
to Charles 'Brown a quit-claim deed of one half of the land he
had purchased from McKinsie aid.' S wett, the ground in' question.: the -deed to be executed twio years.from date, it Charles
Brown requests.. Oliver Holmdn died soon' afterwards, without
executing the deed.
, Sarah Holman, the widow ot Oliver Holman, removed to Bos-

28

SUPREME COURT.
[Watkins v. Holman et al.

ton, Massachusetts, and "there took out letters of administration to
tne estate -of her deceased husband.
Charles Brown presented a petition to the Supreme Judicial
Court, of Massazchusetts, setting forth that Oliver Holman had
executed to him the bond before stated, by which he bound him'self to convey certain property in Mobile to him, being the part
of the premises for-which this suit .is instituted;- and that he was
prevented conveying the same by death; and praying the Court
would grant license to, -and would empower Sarah Holman, the
widow and administratrix of Oliyer Holman, to execute to hii
such conveyance of the premises, as Oliver Holman would have
been obliged to make and execute, if lie were then living.
The ividow and administratrix, Sarah Holman, certified to the
Court that "she had read and' had notice of the petition, and
had no objections to offer why the prayer thereof should not be
granted; and signified her con sent to the same."
Elisha Read, guardian of -Sarah Holman and Oliver Holman,
minors, and Catharine Holman, daughter of Oliver Holman, certifed that they had read and had notice of the petition, and
believed the statement therelm to be correct, and had no cause to
show why the prayer of the petitioner should not be granted, and
signified theif co~ent to the same. The Cour thereupon ordered
that 'Sarah Holman 'should be licensed to make and execute a
deed to Charles Brown of the premises: and accordingly, on the
10th of, March, 1824, a deed was executed to the petitioner for
the property described in the title-bond.
The defendants in the Circuit Court, also gave in evidence an
act of the legislature of Alabama, in the following terms:
"An Act to authorize the administratrix of Oliver Holman, deceased, late of the county of Mobile, to sell real estate.
"Sect. 1.. Be it enacted, &c. &c., That the administratrix of the
late Oliver Holinan, resident in the city of Boston, in the state of
Massachusetts, be, and she is, hereby, authorized to sell, by Nathaniel Littlefield and Gorham Davenport, her attorneys in fact,
the.real estate of which the said Oliver Holman died seised irf the
city of Mobile, on sfich terms and in such manner as may be
deemed most advantageous to the estate of the deceased.
"Sect. 2. And be it further enacted, that the said administratrix
be, and she is hereby authorized, by her attorneys aforesaid, on

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

29

[Watkins v.Holman et aj]

the sale of the'said estate, to make and deliver to the purchaser or
purchasers; as the casemay be, a legal conveyance of the same,
which shall be as binding as if they same had been made by the
said Oliver Holman in his lifetime.
" Sect. 3. And be it further enacted, that Nathaniel Littlefield
and Gorham Davenport, before the sale of the estate aforesaid,
shall enter into bond.with sufficient security, payable to the judge
of the County Court of Mobile county, for the true and faithful
payment of the money arising from the sale of the said estafe into
the hands of the administratrix thereof, to be appropriated to th4
payment of the debts due by the said decedent."
On the 24th -day of April, 1824, by a deed executed in conformity with the law, in consideration of the sum of fifteen
thousand dollars paid to the administratrix'of Olivler Holmai, the
other moiety of th? property was conveyed to Charles Brown.
Tlie defendants in the Circuit Court claimed to hold all the
premises in controversy by conveyances from the grantee of
Charles Brown, made under the license of the Supreme Court of
Massachusetts, and the act of the Assembly'of Alabama.
It was further in evidence, that Oliver Holman erected stores
on the lot, and used them for four years, when he died.
The lot, which was proven to have been in the actual possession of Geronio, ws enclosed, there being a line of fence running
from the street on the north to the southern boundary of the lot,
and followed bv the meanders of high tide water mark. There
was no person who ever enclosed to the east of this lot, or who
had ever.set up any claim upon it, except so far as the facts disclosed the claim of Lucy Landry, under Geronio. The ground
in dispute was more than one hundred feet distant from the
enclosure of Lucy Landry, and was at all times subject to the
influx of the tide, prior to the improvements of Holman. It
was in evidence that all the land east of Lucy Landry's enclosure, before the improvements of Holman, had been used, as all
the land on the same line from St. Francis street to Governoet
street, on the same line, had been used, as a public landing-pla by the people under the Spanish government: and that no ifn-,
provements or obstructions had been erected upon.that tract of
land.
The Circuit Court decided that the bond from Holman to
c2

30

SUPREME COURT.
[Watkinqv. Holman et al.]

Brown, and the proceedings of the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, and the deed under those proceedings were not sufficient
to confer any legal title upon the defendant ; these proceedings
were without authority and of no effect, and that theywere adrnissible as evidence, only to show the nature of the defendants' claim
of possession. The Court also charged the jury that the act of
the legislature, and all proceedings under it, were void, and
the evidence was competent only to show the defendants' claim
and possession; to which decision, as well as to the charge, the
defendants' counsel excepted. The defendants then offered in evidence a map obtained from the general land-office at Washington city, .purporting to have been made in 1761, and which
was certified to have been on file there, made by one
surveyor. This map indicated that the city was. then laid off
into regular squares, and bounded by streets; that there ws a
space between thefront square and the margin of the river, not
divided, and that this space was marked in the two halves, with
the word quai. The defendant ga.ve evidence, conducing to
irove that the lands sued for were embraced within that space.
and that itcontinued to be public and open, till Holman's possession and improvements in1818; and so -contended before the
jury.
The defendants further gave evidence, that Holman and Brown
were merchants, band that the carpenters who -built the houses on
the lands in dispute were sent out by the said Brown; that
Brown and Holman were in partnership as merchants, and that
in carrying on their business, these buildings were used as storehouses; that Brown resided in Boston, and h~d never been in
Mobile, and that Holman resided in Mobile; that the storehouses were reputed to be Holman's, and not. Ho-imah and
Brown's. After the death of Holman, agents 'of Brown went.
into.possession; whether instantly or after the execution of the
deeds aforesaid, his agents or vendees have enjoyed entire and
exclusive possession of the premises. It was further in evidence
that the house in possession of defendants, fronts on Water street,
one of the streets of the city: whereupon the Court charged the
.jury,. that if they believed, from the evidence, that' Gerohio
claimed title to the premises in question, and was in actual pos'session of a part of the lot of land to-which 'they Were then

JANUARY TERM,

1842.

31

(Watkins v. Holman et a.]

attached, and remained in possession and claiming title from and
prior to the year 1785, till the time of his death; and that before
his death he gave the whole of said lot to LUcy Landry; and that
her father thereupon took and held possession of it for her until
she arrived at full age, when she took possession, and claimed
title to the full extent of the boundaries in the deed from her to
McKinsie and Swett; and that since the possession of Mobile by
the United States, the streets and quai have been so altered by the
municipal authorities of said city, that the said quai has been discontinued or otherwise abolished, and the said Water street
erected in lieu of it; and that the premises in question are within
the boundaries of the said lot conveyed, as aforesaid, by Lucy
Landry to McKinsie and Swett, and by them to Oliver Holman;
and that said Holman entered upon and remained in possession
of the said premises from the date of his purchase. until the time
of his death; the plaintiffs are entitled to a verdict, unless the jury
believe, from the evidence, that actiial possession was delivered
by said Holman to Brown, under said bond for title; and that
said Brown had remained in possession, and that the possession
had been regularly transmitted through those claiming tinder him
to the defendant. The defendant contended that the premises in
question were not embraced within.the claim of Lucy Landry,
but formed a portion of the public quai. That the entry of Holman under the title derived from Lucy Landry, and the building
of stores on the lot, gave him no title, and that his heirs could not
maintain an ejectment for the lot, against those claiming under
his partner, Brown. This the Court overruled,-and the counsel
for the defendant excepted.
The defendant's counsel contended that,from the bond,the proof
in the cause, and the admission of Catharine Holman in the record
of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, thereto attached,
it appeared that Holman and Brown were jointly interested in
the premises at the period of his entry. That although Brown
never was upon the land, that the same was held by Holman for
their joint benefit; and that though no actual possession was delivered under the bond for-title, that if those facts were found,
that Brown, or those claiming under him, could not be sued for
the moiety in the bond; without a demand and notice to quit.
This the Court overruled.

32

SUPREME 'COURT.
[Watkins v. Holman et aLJ

The case was argued by Mr. Ogden and Mr, Legare, for the
plaintiffs in error; and by Mr. Crittenden and Mr. Key, for the
defendants.
Mr. Ogden contended that, in the Court below, the plaintiffs in
error had proved their title to the premises in dispute, and the
Court shoult nave nonsuited the defendants, the plaintiffs, in the
ejectment; or charged the jury that they were not entitled to a
verdict in their favour. 'The plaintiffs in error, and those under
whom they claim, had been in possession, under a, paper title,
since. 1822, claiming the premises as their own;- fifteen years
before the commencement of this suit. Before being turned out
of possession, the defendants in error are called upon to show a
valid subsisting title to the premises. Possession is a valid title
against all the world, until a bettbr title is shown.
The first question now arises-we claim the property under a
title derived from Oliver Holman, the ancestor of the defendants
in error, his heirs at law. Can we be permitted to question and
deny the title of the ancestor under whom we claim?
This point seems to be settled in this Court, in the cases of
Blight's Lessor v. Rochester, -7Wheat. 497; Bradstreet v. Huntington, 5 Peters, 402, and Willison v. Watkins, 3 Peters, 43.
It is denied that Holman ever had a title to the lot in controversy. It is asserted to have been derived from a Spaniard, Geronio; but no paper title is shown to have been in him. All the title
set up as having existed in him. was, that of possession of a lot at
the comer of St. Francis and Royal streets, to which Lucy Landry
afterwards became entitled under him, and which, when of age,
sl.e conveyed to the grantors of Oliver Holman. No grant from
Spain was made to Geronio ; none is asserted td have been given.
The enclosure ran down to and along high-water mark, on the
line of which there was a fence.
The premises in dispute in this case are more than one hundred
feet distant from the enclosure of Lucy Landry, and were all
open until improved by Holman.
Geronio having had no paper title, and pretending to no title
but possession, nothing can be clearer than that his title bxtended
no further than the actual possession; and -he gave no more to
Lucy Landry. The law upon this point is entirely settled.

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

93

[Watkins v. Holman et P1.]

Lessor of Clarke v. Courtney, 5 Peters, 354; 2 Johns. Rep. 230;
Mass. Rep. 416; 3 Wash. C. C. R. 475.
The title set up by the heirs 9f Holman not having any other
-undation than that of Lucy Landry, it is manifest, that against
_.holder of the lot by possession and improvement by Holman,
and nbw with the improvements held by the plaintiffs in error,
that title cannot be sustained.
There is another view to be taken upon this question of possession, to which the attention of the Court is. requested. The
fence, including the lot occupied by Geronio, and Landry under
him, ran down to high-water mark, and followed the meanders
of high-water mark. No person had an enclosure to the east of
this lot, or had a claim on it, except Landry: it was more
than one hundred feet from her enclosure, and was at all times
subject to the reflux of the tide, prior to the improvements of Holman, in 1818. It had been used as a part of a public highway,
and as a public landing-place by the people under the Spanish
government. These facts clearly prove that there never was
even an assertion of title by any one to this lot, before Holman
improved it.
Again, the property now in dispute is one hundred feet below
what in 1818 was the high-water mark. Now, by the common
law, all land beyond ordinary tide water-mark belongs to the
crown. It is not necessary to cite cases to prove this as a general
principle. The principle is of universal prevalence in the states
of the Union, borderine on tide-xwaters.
It is admitted that the right to the shores of tide-water may be
acquired by grants from the crown, or government. Sir Henry
Constable's case, 5 Holt, 107; Angel on Tide Waters, 140. Although a grant fr6m the crown may be presumed after long possession. But this only shows that by grant alone the title can
be acquired. Appendix to Angel on Tide Waters, 43, and the cases
cited. The evidence of such a grant would be the embanking
against the sea, and using the ground. Hale de Jure laris, part I,
ch. 6. page 27. But the evidence in this case shows no'such state
of facts; and if there is Qtny law of Spain which differs on this
point fro the common law, it should hav.e been shown, and, as
a foreign law, should have been proved.
There, is another fact appearing on the record, which should

34

SUPREME COURT.
[Watkias v.Holman et al.]

have great influence on the Court in considering the point now
under examinttion. The map gave in evidence has the word
"quai," marked upon it, showing that this lot was considered as
a quai. City of New Oleans v. The United States, 10 Peters,
715. This shows that the defendants in error have not and'never
had any legal title to this 16t. It was a public landing, and was
always so considered While Spain had possession of'the country.
The plaintiffs in error, defendants in the Circuit Court, had a
sufficient title to give them a right to a verdict in their favour,
under instructions from the Court.
Oliver Holman, the ancestor of the defendants in error, died in
Mobile, before March, 1823. He died intestate, and administration was granted to his widow. Some tinie after which, the
legislature of Alabama passed the act authorizing the administra%rixto sell the estate'of Oliver Holman 5 under the provisions of
this act, and in full conformity with them, the administratrix sold
the estate, and conveyed it to Charles Brown, under whom, and
by-virtue of the conveyance authorized by this act, the plaintiffs
in error held a moiety of the property. There is, nothing in the
record to impeach the fairness of this -sale, or to show that the
property was not sold for its full value.
The Circuit Court -held this act of the legislature of Alabama
void. The reasons for this decision are not given, but it is presumed they were:
1. It is supposed that the- law interfered 'with and took away
he, vested rights of the heirs at law of Oliver Holman; or,
2.That this was a judicial act,.which it was not competent
for the legislature of Alabama to perform.
Does this law take away the vested rights of the heirs of Oliver
Holman? If the law is void on this ground, it must be because
the legislature had no power to pass this law: for, if constitutional,
the law can nowherp be questioned. It cannot be objected to
the law, that it infringesthe obligation of contracts, and is therefore void t1nder the Constitution of the United States. The law
authorized the, sale of the lot for. the purpose of paying the debts
of Holman, and thus enabling the administratrix, I&okeep his
contracts. How then.can it be incompatible with the obligation
of contracts . But it has been declared by this Court,-in the case
of Satterlee v. Matthewson, 2 Peters, 414, that it has nowhere been

JANUARY TBrRM,- 1842.

35

[Watius V.Holman et al.]

said, that a state statute which divests a vested right, is incompatible with the Constitution of the United States.
Nor is the law inconsistent with the constitution of Alabama.
By the laws of Alabama, upon the death of Holman, his real
estate descended to his heirs; but in their hands itwas subject to the
payment of his debts. A law which authorizes the sale of such
lands for the payment of the debts cannot be exceptionable. In
the constitution of Alabama, there- is nothing which, in terms,
prohibits the passage of such a law; nor-is the law a judicial.act,
thus trenching on the other constitutional departments. The law
does nothing in its special provision, but what had been done in
effect, by the general laws of Alabama, authorizing the sale of
the estates of decedents for the payment of debts. But as, from
the particula; local situation of the administratfix of Oliver Holman, she could not be proceeded against under the general law,
this special enactment is, made. The same responsibilities for the
payment of the debts-are continued.; and security is required for
the performance of the duties to pay the debts out of the proceeds
of the sales. No vested rights of the heirs of Holman were impaired, for all their rights were subject to the debts of their ancestor. In support of these 'principles, cited, Stoddard v. Smith,
5 Binney 355; Wilkinson v. Leland, 2.Peters, 626; Bank of
Hamilton v: Dudley's heirs, 2 Peters, 523 ; 16 Massachusetts Rep.
326; 13 Serg. & Rawle, 425; 2 Vernon, 711' 4 Cruise's Digest,
520.
Toulman's Digest of the Laws df Alabama, contains a number
of private acts sinilar t&this,- on pages 344, 345, 346. The constitution was formed in 1819, and this act passed in 1824., It was
a contempioraneous exposition ofthe constitution:
The act was no doubt passed on the application of the administratrix of Oliver Holman, and was enacted to enable her to pay
the debts. It does not direct the sale, but authoriies it.. The predumption is that it was passed to enable the administratrik to do
her duty. He-who seeks to avoid an act upon the ground that it
was procured upon false suggestions, must prove, affirmatively,
that the suggestions were false. There is not only no proof in
this case, that Holman's estate was not in debt at the time of his
death; but the contrary is nowhere pretended. The law will
therefore be presumed to have passed in good faith.

SUPREME COURT.
EWatkins v. Holman et al

But it is said this law is,
against the constitution of Alibama,
because it is a judicialact; -and thus invades one of the branches
of government, which 'can along exercise judicial powers.
Without the express prohibition of the constitution of Alabama,
liiniting to each department its special duties, the separation of
the government into legislative, executive, and judicial, was sufficient -to prohibit each branch from invading the constitutional
powers of the other.
But the act under examination is not a judicial measure. Judicial power is the xight to decide between different parties ; the
power to declare what the law is betweenconflicting parties, and
to carry judgments and decrees -into effect, How then can the
act in question be considered judicial? It does 'not decide between the administratrix and the creditors; it leaves all qiuestion
as to the distribution' of the proceeds open; and they must be decided, by the judicial tribunals, ifthe parties cannot adjust them.
Cited, Wilkinson v. Leland, 2 Peters, 660.
The Courts of the United States sitting -ir.thestates, adopt the
construction of the constitutions of the states, which-have been
given'by the decisions of the highest judicial tribunals of the
states. This is essential to harmony between the Courts of the
Union, and of the states. What would be the confusion if' one
construction were given to 'he constitution of the state, in tle
Courts of the states, and in the Courts of the United States, a
different construction? So, too, as t6 the laws of the states, It
must be very plain that an act of the legislature is a violation of
the constitution, to justify a Court to pronoince it void. 5 Mass.
Rep: 534; "12 Mass.-Rep. 417. In this case we have the uniform
legislation of Alabama, since the state was organized, in .corroboration of the constitutionality of this act; and titles to lands to an
immense value are held under special acts of assembly similar to
this, A decision here against the validity' of this law, would
shake the titles to a large amount of property within the state.
The early passage of.laws of a similar character with this- now
under examination, is a contemporaneous exposition of the constitution; for they were passed within a very few years after the
constitution was adopted. In Alabama the question"'was at rest;
until disturbed by the decision of the Circuit Court in the case now
before the Court.

JANUARY TERM, 1842.
[wat
-&Holmim et al.]

37

The title of the plaintiffs in error to, one-moiety of the property,
has never been shown. As to the other moiety, it is seen from
the evidence in the case that after the death of tolman, Brown,
is partner, went into possession of the whole property. The
buildings and wharf were called Holman and Brown's wharf,
and Holman and Brown's buildings; and Holman promised by
a title-bond to convey one-half to Brown.
Mr. Ogden then proceeded to refer to the proceedings in the
Supreme Court of Massachusetts, and to show that -they are in
entire conformity -with the laws of Massaehusetts; and that the
deed executed by the administratrix to Brown, for the property
described in the bond of Holman, was so executed under the decree of the Court, after notice,'and with the knowledge and consent of the administratrix and of the heirs of Oliver Holman,
acting personally, or represented by their guardian.
The application to the Supreme Court of Massachusetts was
similar to a prayer for a decree of specific performance. The
Court are asked to permit the administratrix to make a deed in
conformity with the contract stipulated in the bond. A deed was
made in execution of this decree of the Court.
This presents the question whether, under these circumstances,
the defendants below have shown a legal title to this moiety of
the property.
The legal estate is considered as.so vested in the mortgagee as
tiat he may maintain ejectment against the mortgagor, and turn
him out of possession. The legal estate is in the mortgagee, and
yet, after his death, the administrator of the mortgagee may
recover the amount due on the mortgage, ,and, by entering satisfaction, destroy the legal estate in the mortgagee. This is so, not
only id'equity, but in law.
Why is this? Because the mortgage is mere evidence of a
debt, which the administratrix has a right 'to recover, and of
course to acknowledge satisfaction for it; and the heir at law is
not injured, for his ancestor never had any iriterest in the land
mortgaged, other than as a security for a debt; which being paid,
that interest has ceased. Now, in this case, the act of the administrator destroys the legal estate of the mortgagor, and of his
heirs. Let that reasoning be applied to the case before -the
Court.
VOL. XVI.-D

38

SUPREME COURT.
[Watkins v.Holman et al]

An administrator is bound to perform all the contracts entered
into by the testator, whose estate he represents; or to incur
damages'for the nonperformance of them, so far as the assets in
hiq hands will enable him to do so.
If the testator gave a bond or note, the administrator must pay
iti and so in-reference to any other contract."*The assets in his
hands are answerable for the nbnperformance of the contracts of
the intestate. If he contracted to sell lands, the assets in the hands
of the administratrix are liable for damages for nonperformance.
Holman was bound b his bond to.convey the moiety of. the
property to Brown, and Brown. could have maintained an action
for damages on the no'nperformance of this contract by the admit
nistratrix. The real estate of Holman could have been sold for
the payment: of darmges.
Holman held this moiety of the property in trust for Brown.
He had a bare faked trust, without any beneficial interest whatever in-it. As in the case of a mortgage, the receipt of the money
by an administrator extinguishes the estate of the heirs of the
mortgagee; so, in such a case as this, the administratrix of Holman, by satisfying the claim of Brown, by a conveyance of the
estate, "divestedthe estate of the heirs of Holman.
What may.be done on compulsion by an administrator, it is
contended may be done voluntarily.
ir is contended that the estate descended to the heirs of Holman as trustees, Brown and his grantees being cestu que trusts,
and in possession of the estate. It is then a case in which trustees having iio benoficial interest in ihe estate proceed by ejectment against the' destui trusts for the estate. This cannot be.
3 Burr. Reports, 1898, .1901; Douglass, 695; 1 Term Rep. 600.
The whole proceedings in the case before the Supreme Court of
Massachusetts were regular. The facts were truly stated in the
p6titidn; riotice was given' to all the parties in interest, and no
objection made by any one of them. The admimstratrix conveyed
according to the decree. If the decree had been, that the heirs
should convey, there could have been no bbjections to their deed.
The question then is, not on the validity of the proceedings in
Massachusetts, but on the validity of the deed.
In'the Circuit Court, it was held that the plaintiffs in error had
shown no valid title to the lot.

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

39

[Watkdns v. Holman et al.]

It is to be observed that, independent of the proceedings in
Massachusetts, the- heirs of Holman never had any beneficial
estate in this moiety of the lot. Brown's money had paid for it,
and their ancestor had promised to convey it. They had no equitable title in it. With the strictly legal estate, they had a barren
sceptre in their hands; liable to be taken from them, at any moment, by Brown. A bill in equity filed by Brown, or by the
plaintiffs in error, would compel them to part with their legal
estate, which they now rely upon in this action. This they cannot do. The whole property had been improved by the joint
funds of Holman and Brown; ard a moiety was held by Holman
as trustee. There was a clear resulting trust in favour of Brown,
by the appropriation of his money to the purchase and improvement of the property. Cited, Story's Equity, 439, 243, 444.
It was for some time doubted, whether, to raise this resulting
or implied trust, it should not appear oin the face of the deed
passing the estate, that the consideration was paid by another.
This doubt no longer exists. (Note to Story's Equity, 443, sec.
1201.) In Wray v. Stull, 2 Ves. & Beam. 388, it is expressly ruled,
that where a, joint advance is made, and the deed is taken in the
name of one only, there is a resulting trust iii favour of the other.
Holman then held.this property, as to one moiety, in -trust for
Brown.
Was this trust executed by the statute of uses ? This has not
been so held in the cases in 1 Piere Williams, 112: but without
questioning this decision of Lord Chancellor Cowper, it may be
safely urged, that the language of-the English statute of uses, and
the statute of Alabama, are different. By the statute of Alabama
the trust is executed. Aikin's Digest of the Laws of Alabama,
94, note 37.
It is contended that under the law of Alabama, the original
deed to Holman conveyed to Brown one moiety of the lot; he
being entitled to the same in consequence of having paid one-half
of the purchase-money.
But if this position is doubted, it is not essential to the case of
the plaintiffs in error to maintain it. We have a bond from Holman, under his hand and seal; and this is a good declaration of
trust. 2 Piere Williams, 314. Thus Holman acknowledged that

SUPREME COURT.
[Watkins v. Holman et al.]

he held one-half of this property in trust for Brown, and here is
not an implied, but an express declaration of tl& trust.
It is contended that the proceedings 'in Massachusetts were
equivalent to a decree by a Court of Equity for a specific performance : but if this was not the fact, they did not render invalid
the rights of Brown under the laws of Alabama; which it is
claimed were such as could not be disturbed by the heirs of Holman, who were no more than trustees.
Mr. Key, for the defendants in error.
The heirs of Oliver Holman, who were plaintiffs in the ejectngent ii the Circuit Court, are charged with an attempt to recover
lands which have been sold for the payment of the debts of their
ancestor; and the proceeds of that sale justly applied to that
purpose. But the plaintiffs below have no disposition to defeat
the rights of creditors. If they recover the land, they will hold it
subject to the debts; and they will be liableto the purchasers, if the
debts of their ancestor were paid out of the proceeds of the sale.
It is said the defendants in the Circuit Court could have impeached the sale for fraud; and that, not having attempted this, its
fairness is to be presumed. It is contended that it was the duty
of the plaintiffs i.n error to have proved the fairness of the proceedings. Their course was unusual: they went out-of the established mode of proceeding. The general law of Alabakma was
open to them. The property of Holman might have been sold
for the payment of his debts, in the usual manner of proceeding.
The bond of Hohan to Brown might have been the subject of
a suit in the Courts of Alabama. A presumption of unfairness is
warranted by the unusual mode of proceeding. Had the Courts
of Alabama been resorted to, all would have been legally done.
Proof that Holman owed debts, which his personal estate could
not pay, would have been given; and all parties would have had
notice.
The objecti6ns to the title to Lucy Landry have no founda
tion. The evidence showed that she had in her possession and
claimed title to the land to the river; and all she had was conveyed
by those who conveyed to Holman.
But the plaintiffs in error cannot contest this title, because they

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

41

[Watkins v. Holman et al]

claim in no other way than under the same title.

10 Johns. 223 ,

293, 358; 2 Wend. 14.

But it is said the title of the defendants in error is only a legal
titl6; that the plaintiffs have the equity: that the defendants in
error are trustees, and the plaintiffs are cestui que trusts. How is
this made out? Brown and Holman were partners, as merchants.
There must be a clear trust made out, before a Court of Equity
will decree a trust. Here there is nothing; certainly, as to all the
property, except the part nientioned in the bond to Brown. They
were not partners as to the land.
Then their title as to that portion, and the effect of the Massachusetts license, and the deed under it, must be considered. Suppose
these Massachusetts proceedings regular, the order of Court gives
no title. The deed was executed iii March, 1824.; and before this
time, in 1823, the act of the legislature of Alabama had ordered
all the real estate of Holman to be sold. Could part of the estate
be conveyed subsequently to this law, to Brown, and another
part sold under the law?
But the proceeding is a nullity. Laws of Massachusetts, vol. 1;
2 Peters, 655; 8 Peters, 144. If this proceeding is a nullity, the
bond, and the admissions of the widow, and of the infant heirs of
Holman, are not evidence; and they cannot be used to set up a
trust, or a declaration of trust, and nothing can be claimed under'
them.
The main question in this case is the validity of the law of
Alabama. The act authorizes the sale of the real estate of Oliver
Holman by his adn;nistratrix, through her attorneys, "on such
terms and in such manner," &c., and gives no direction for the
payment of the debts; nor was it shown that his personal estate
was not sufficient to pay his debts.
I Who were the parties to the transaction ? Who applied
for the
law? Was it Sarah Holman, or her attorne'ys? She was a nonresident; she administered in Massachusetts, and it nowhere
appears that she had administered in Alabama.
The first objection to the validity of this law is, that it is a private act, and can bind none but the parties to it; Consequently
it did bilid the creditors or the heirs. 2 Black. 346; 16 Mass.
330, 331, 332; 5 Cruise, 8; 8 Johns. 520, 555, 556; Anstruther
288, 291, 294; 7'Johns. Rep. 555. Therefore, no mratter how
D2

6

SUPREME COURT.
[Watkins v. Holman ot aL]

far the powers of thelegislature of Alabama are unrestricted; this
law could not bind either creditors or heirs, because they were
not parties to it, gr named in it.
Second. But the legislature of Alabama had no power to pass
this law. It would be contrary to a law of Congress. Toulmin's
Digest, 911, 912, 453. If it deprived any one of a trial by jury,
or.of "judicial proceedings," it would violate the Constitution.
Third. It is prohibited by the constitution of Alabama. The
powers of government are carefully distributed by the constitution of Alabama. Each department is to exercise its functions
exclusively. The judicial power is'vested in the Courts, but this
was an act of judicial power exercised by the legislature.
2 Black. 346; 6 Cranch, 135; 11 Mass. 396; 3 Yerger's Rep.
269, 557, 605, 606; 4 Yerg. 202; 5 Yerg. 320; 1 New Hamp.
Rep. 204; 3 New Hamp. Rep. 493; 4 New Hamp. Rep. 19, 109;
Baldwin's C. C. Rep. 219.
It is judicial power. Ogden v. Blackeledge, 2 Cranch, 272;
3 Dall. 386; Wilkinson v. Leland, 2 Peters, 633; Crane v. Maginnis, 1 Hai. & Gill, 475; 10 Yerg. 69, 70. It is judicial,
because given to Courts. Aikin's Digest, 180, 181. It is also
retrospective. 2 Gallis; 139; 7 Johns. Rep. 477, 493; 11 Mass.
396. It impairs vested rights, and puts aside the standing laws.
11 Mass. 396; 4 Wheat. 441; 4 New Hamp. Rep. 572.
The act does not proceed on the allegation that.there are debts
due by the intestate, Holman, for which the estate is to be sold.
Suppose there were no debts, yet the estate has been sold. If it
is said the question as to there being debts is left to the Courts;
then this is but a declaratory act, and the administratrix should
have applied to the Court, and a sale without such application is
a nullity.
The vested rights of the heirs were taken away by this act.
They had such rights. They might have entered on the land;
and although, by the laws of Alabama, it was liable for the debts
of their ancestor, yet this law takes all these rights away, without
their knowledge or consent. But it is not true that the heirs held
the land subject to the debts of their ancestor. This liability did
not exist, until it had been ascertained that the personal estate of
Holman was insufficient to discharge his debts. This should
have been judicially decided, in due course of law, where they

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

43

[Watwiv, Holai otaL].

would have been represented and heard. 3 Peters' .Rep. I0.
Before the land could have been sold, by judicial proceedings, it
should have been proved that there was no personal assets, or, if
any, that the administratrix and her sureties were insolvent.
The legislature having, cowmitted this subject to the Courts, it
had no power over it.
To show that the interfererice of the legislature on the subject
of the sale of the estates of intestates was -deemed unconstitustional in Alabama, Mr. Key referred to report- of committees
of the legislature in 1823, againstihe exerciseof such a power.
It is denied that the proceeding in the Suprenie Court of Massachusetts could authorize the sale of the othe, moiety of the
land.
The laws of Massachusetts do not authorize pucti a proceeding for the sale of land out of the state; and if they did, they
would be invalid as to land not withinthat commonwealth. All
the regulations for the sale of land are necessarily local; and.in
every state titles to land within the state can only be made or
acquired by its own laws, or proceedings authorizedby it.
Mr. Crittenden, also for the defendants in error.
The principal questions in the case are upon the validity 6f
the conveyance under the' decree of the Supreme Court of Mas sachuseits, and the validity of ihe act of the lbgis]ature of Alabama, authorizing the sale of the estate by the admifiistratrix
of Oliver Holman.
As to the first, the Court determined that the bond, the decree,
and deed made under it, conferred nolegal title, and were "ad-,
missible only to show the nature of the defendant's claim. and
possession-."
This decision is supposed to be correct, because there 1s no
law of Massachusetts authorizing such a decree, if thb subject wai
within her jurisdiction. Secondly, because the subject isextraterritorial to her, and over which she has no jurisdiction: and,
thirdly, because the parties, whose title was divested, were not
before the 'Court. And it is against the first principles of law to
affect a party who has had no opportunity of defence.
As to the second question, concerning the sale and conveyance
under the act of assembly, the Court decided that this evidence

SU'PREME COURT.
[Watkdns v. Holman et al.]

"was not sufficient to maintain the defendant's title ;" and "cthat
the act, &c., and all the proceedings under it, were void."
This act, considered as an authority to sell, ought, from its own
nature, and especially from the circumstances of the case, to be
coristrhed strictly. It was evidently the intention of the legislature to annex this authority to the official character of the administratrix; and the term administratrix cannot be regarded as
mere descriptio persona, because the money to arise from the
sale is to be paid into her hands, "to be appropriated to the payment of the debts'due by the said estate." It was essential,
iherefore, that the person selling under this law should have
been the lawful administratrix; and, as such, bound to make
the directed appropriation of the proceeds of the sale. There
is no proof that Sarah Holman was the adminmstratrix; or
that she was administratrix within the state of Alabama. If
administratrix anywhere, it was in Massachusetts. Proof that
she was administratrix, and that administration was granted to
her in Alabama, was essential to the validity of the sale and deed
under the act. And for that cause, if no other, the decision of
the Court was correct in denouncing the deed as "4insufficient to
maintain defendant's title."
But we contend further, that the act of the assembly of Alabama is contrary and' repugnant to the constitution of the state
of Alabama, as decided by the Circuit Court.
By a general statute of the legislature of Alabama, passed
long before the special acf in question, (Touilmin's Digest, 327,
328, 338,)'provision is made for the sale of the real estate of
decendents, where their personal estate is insufficient for the
payment of their debts, by certain proceedings before the
Orphans Court, in which the heirs of all persons interested are
to be cited, and a full exhibit of the condition of the estate
made by the executor or administrator; and thereuponif it appear
proper, the Court may 'direct the executor or administrator to
-sell so much of the real estate as may be necessary, &c. In the
proceedings directed by this statute, the most careful regard is
had to the interest of heirs, and the preservation of their rights.
To this law, enacted in 1803, the heirs of Holman, and their
inheritance were properly subject; and by "due course of law"
the land descended to them might, on the application of the

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

45

[Watkins v. Holman et al.)

executor or administrator of their ancestor, have been sold for
the satisfaction of their ancestor's debts. The special act in
question usurps, as to this particular case, the judicial function
assigned-by the existing general law to the Orphans Court; and,
without notice, hearing, or defence, on the 'part of the heirs, in
whom the title was as fully vested as ever it was in their father,)
authorizes an administratrix to make sale of their inheritance.
We say tht the legislature could not take from them their property, nor their right of defending their" title in a "due course of
law;" *ihich, as we understand, can only be had before some
judicial officer or tribunal.
By the constitution of Alabama, the powers of government
are divided into three distinct departments, and each confided to
a separate body of magistracy; to wit: the legislative, executive,
and judicial; and each is forbidden to exercise any power properly belonging to either of the others. This general provision,
we suppose, is'violated by the power exercised in this act.
We suppose also that the act is repugnant to several provisions
of that constitution. By the tenth section of the first article, no
one accused even of crime can be deprived of his life, liberty,
or property, "but by due course of law." He cannot in such
case be deprived by an act of legislation. Is a man accused of
debt in a worse situation than one accused of crime; and may he
be deprived of his property by the legislative power, and without "due course of law?"
The nineteenth section of the same act, when taken in connection with the latter part of the eleventh section of that article,
seems to authorize and require that thd terms "ex post facto" should
extend to cases of this description as well as to criminal cases;
and be construed as equivalent to a prohibition of retrospective
laws of all descriptions. To confine it to criminal cases, would
be to express in very untranslatable Latin, what had been before
expressed, in the eleventh section, in very plain English.
By the twenty-ninth section of the same article, it seems to be
clearly intended that every one, in every "civil cause," in which
his interests are involved, shall have the privilege of defending
himself before "any tribunal in this state;" and shall not be
"debarred" therefrom. It is asked if the legislature have not "debarred" the heirs of Holman of this constitutional right, in the

SUPREME COURT.
[Watkins v. Holman et al.]

most effectual of all. possible modes; by dispensing with a suit
that would otherwise have been necessary, and deciding the
"civil cause" by legislative act?
We are further justified in colicluding this act to be unconstitutional by .the controlling authority of the constructioh in
which all the functionaries of the government of Alabama have
for a long time past concurred and settled down. It is now the
settled doctrine of that state, that all such laws as this are contrary to the constitution ; this is the rule of decision in her judicial tribunals.
And her legislature has, in the most solemn and explicit manner, announced the same opinion, and for years past have acted
upon it, by refraining from passing any such laws. House Journal of 1833, pages 27, 28, of petitions for such laws, and report
thereon by Mr. Hopkins, chairman, &c., 35, 36 ; and report concurred in by a vote of fifty-six to five, p. 36. See also pages 35,
45, for petition of M'Loskey, and report thereon. Senate Joijrnal of 1833, the case of Raney's administrator, &c., 57, 68, and
report, &c., 73. House Journal of 1834, petition of Carr's administrator, to sell the lana of his 'intestate, p. 65, and report
thereon, p. 92. These documents and records show the opinion
and course of decision in Alabama, in respect to the constitutionality of this and similar acts of legislation.
The lot, as originally held by Geronio, fronted on the river as
its eastern boundary. The river has receded to the west, considerably, in the lapse of many years, and, by deposits made by
ebb and flow of thp tide, there has been a gradual formation of
land all along that shore of the river. On the trial, the defendant gave in evidence a map, &c., conducing to prove that the city
was laid off in squares, and that there was a space between the
front square and the margin of the river, marked "quai;" and
gave evidence conducing to show that the premises now in question were embraced. in that space, and that it continued to be
public and open, till Holman entered and improved in 1818.
It was in proof, that the house and premises in question front on
Water street.
(n this the Court instructed the jury that if they believed from
the evidence "that Geronio claimed title to the premises in question, and was in actual possession of a part of the lot of land to

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

47

[Watkins v. Holman et al.]

which they were then attached," &c.; and that since the possession of Mobile by the United States, "the streets and quai
have been so altered by the municipal authorities of said city,
that the said quai has been discontinued, or otherwise abolished,
and the said Water street erected in lieu of it, &c.; and that
the premises in question are within the boundaries of the lot
corveyed as aforesaid to Holman, and by him occupied and
improved as aforesaid, &c.; that the plaintiff was entitled to a
verdict, &c."
The defendant can have no cause to complain of this instruction. .If it was not correct, the defendant, to entitle himself to a
reversal, ought to have set out all the evidence to show this
Court that it had operated to his prejudice. Here no such thing
appears. He has not set out all the evidence; and it may well
be that all that the evidence that is set out conduced to prove
was clearly disproved by other testimony. And every thing is to
be presumed in favour of the verdict. Besides, if all the facts
were as the defendant's evidence conduced to prove them, no
instruction that the Court could have given on them, would have
entitled him to a verdict; because the. defendant held and
claimed under Holman's title, ind that alone, and is concluded
from 'denying that title; and because Holman's possession is
evidence enough of title against all the world, except the rightful
owner; and if he could have been permitted to make. out that
the premises in question were not parcel of Holman's lot, it follows that the defendant shows that he has no title; and is a mere
intruder into the houses and possessions of Holman, and his'
heirs.
Whether the premises in question were parcel of the lot originally belonging to Geronio, and afterwards conveyed to Holman, was purely a matter of fact for the jury; and the verdict
has settled it.
If a question of law could have arisen out of the facts of the
case, as to the rights of the owners of lots fronting on the river,
to alluvial accessions gradually made to them by the action of
the river, &c., that question, plain enough on general principles
and rules of law, is authoritatively settled in this case by. the
act of Congress of the 26th May, 1824, 7 Laws of the United
States, 318.

48

SUPREME C(OURT.
[Watkins v. Holman et aL]

Mr. Logare, for the plaintiffs in error.
The plaintiffs in error are bong fide purchasers, who bought
under the solemn sanction of an act of the legislature of one of
the most enlightened states- of the Union. Against rights so acquired, the claims of the heirs at law hate been set up. These
rights were regarded when other principles in reference to real
estate prevailed; when it was the policy to secure, the realty to
the heir, in preference to satisfying the demands of creditors.
But, now, no such policy, and no such injustice pre-ails. Real
estate, like personal property, is subjected to.debts; and the rights
of heirs at law are inferior to those of just creaitors. Certain
facts are ufidisputed in this case:
1. There is no paper title to the lot. The right of Geronio to
the same was by long possession, and this right only, and no more
was held by Lucy Landry.
2. The ground in dispute was one hundred feet from the enclosure of Lucy Landry.
3. Lucy Landry conveyed in 1818, to those under whom the
plaintiffs in drror held, and now hold the property.
4. All the land up to the time of the possession and improvements of Holman was open, and used as a public landing, as a
"quai."
5. The proceedings in the Supreme Court of Massachusetts,'
and the act of the legislature of Alabama, and the conveyances
under the same to the plaintiffs in error.
First. As to the title set up by the defendants in error, who
were plaintiffs below. Are we at liberty to contest that title; or
are we estopped, because the conveyances to the plaintiffs in.
error ate derived from Holman's possession, whose heirs at law
the defendants in error are? Estoppels are of things certain.
Courts do not lean in favour of them. Vendor and vendee do
not stand in the same relations as landlord and tenant. The
same rules do not govern them. The condition of vendor and
vendee is different. Cited, Blight v. Rochester, and other cases
referred to by Mr. Ogdeii.
The title of Lucy Landry does not cover the land in dispute:
Accretion does not apply to limited possession. The title was by
possession, and possession extends no further than the actual
pedis possessio. The title was limited to the fence which ran to

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

49

[Watkins v. Holman et al.]

high-water mark. Cited, 2 Johns. Rep. 230; 6 Cowan, 617;
1 Cowan, 276.
The law of alluvion applies only to possession. 1 Justinian's
Institutes, book 2, title 1, paragraph 20; Heniccius, 158 ; Grotius,
book 2, ch. 8, page 12. The law of accretion should give the
ground which is thus raised from the water to the public. It
ought not to become private property. If the Court decide that
the plaintiffs in error come in to the question of the title of those
who claim the property frnom them, they will decide against any
right which they may set up s accretion.
The statute of 1824 Was intended only to confirm the title of
those who were in the actual possession of the ground on the xiver;
and cannot be construed to sustain a title which denies the right
of possession.
Under the circumstances exhibited in the case, the purchase
and improvement of this property out of the joint funds of the
pa tnership of Holman and Brown, Brown had a resulting trust
in ohe moiety of this property, which will be protected in a Court
of law. The estate of a cestiii que trust may be set up in a Court
of law. To the cases already cited to sustari this position are
to be added, 3 Johns. 216; 16 Johns. 199; 10 Johqs. 97;
7 Wendell, 379.
Resulting truits are excepted out of the statute of frauds, and
may be proved by parol. 4 Kent's Com. 306; 2 Wash. C. C.
R. 441 ; 2 Atkins, 71.
If it is proved that this property was purchased with partnership money, the plaintiffs in error were ownes .in law. This is
fully prbved.
The proceedings in the Supreme Court of Massachusetts are
r6e's adjudicata. The Court proceeded on the ground that there
was a trust; and they directed'the administratrix to convey, after
all the notice required by the law of Massachusetts had been
given to the infants, and to the heirs at law. The contract of
Holman was a personal contract, and it was therefore proper that
the administratrix should convey.
The act of the legislature of Alabama, under which the other
moiety of the property was sold, makes the land equitable assets
for the payment of the debts. This is no more than leaving to
he Courts to settle all other questions. The statutes of Alabama
VOL. XVI.-E
7

50

SUPREME COURT.
[Watkins v. Holman et al.]

allow a foreign administrator to represent the estate ofr.k deceased
person.
The heir at law is a bate trustee for creditors. Lands are sold
for the payment of the debts of a decedent, without making his
heirs parties to the proceedings. 2 Cranch, 407; .1 MICord's
Chan. Rep. 294; 4 MICord's Chan. Rep.'128; 4 Kent's Com.
429. The law of Alabama does no more than authorize that to
be done at once, which by a long course of proceedings in tie
Courts could have been effected. itis impossible to lay down
the limits between legislative and judicial powers. It is not in
the power of the Courts to interfere, and say this was not legislative power; and thus to assume a control over the legislature
which will destroy it. This Court will not sustain such an interference. The only objection to this law is, that it was passed in
a particular case; but .this does not anhul the law. The proceedings in the legislature of Alabama, subsequent to this act, may
power to pass
have been proper, but they do not show that the
the law did not. exist.
The result of this reasoning is,.that. the .legislature have the
power; and the exception must be made out fully by the language
of the constitution. -It must b6 clearly shown that the law was
against the constitution.
Ther6 is no pretence to say this was a judicial act. *The law
does not affirm that there were debts. All it did was to declare
the land subject to the debts. The existence of the debts, and
their amount, are to be made out before the Court.
The cofistitution of Alabama says no more than is said by all
the constitutions of. the states. The powers of ihe government
are divided in every state. No objections can be made to the
law, on the ground that it was ex post facto. Ex post facto laws
prohibited by the Constitution of the United. States are laws
relating to crimes. None of the cases cited sustain the position
that this act is unconstitutional. Cited, 1 Gill & Johnson, 474;
2 Kent, 104; 2 Gallis. 100; 1 Kent's Com. 455,456.
Has the law of Alabama been executed ? This question Was
not made below; but if it had been, it would have been shown
that the' law was entirely complied with. The administratrix
did what she was allowed to do, by cenverting the land into

JANUAPY TERM, 1842.
[,Watki

51

r. Holman et al

assets to pay the debts; the security required .bythe law having
been given.
Mr. 'Justice M'L.AN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This cause is brought before this Court, by a writ of error to
the Circuit Court of the United States for the southern district of
Alabama.
The heirs of Holman commenced an action of ejectment
against the plaintiffs in error, to recover possession of a certain
lot in the city of Mobile. On the trial, the lessors of the plaintiffs
proved that, before the year 1785, one Geronio was in possession
of a lot in the city of Mobile, at the corner of St. Francis and
Royal streets, which he continued to occupy until his death.
Previous to his death he devised the lot to Lucy Landry, whose
father, Simoh Landry, took charge of it for his daughter until she
became of age, when she occupied it as her own property. In
1818 she conveyed the lot to M'Kifisie and Swett, by deed,
in which the eastern boundary was stated to be the Mobile river;
and it is.admitted that the deed embraced the lot in dispute.
M'Kinsie and Swett conveyed the premises on the same day
to Oliver Holman; and in'1818 lie took possession of the lot in
controversy, erected houses and a wharf on it, and continued to
occupy it as a merchant, in copartnership with one Charles
Brown, who lived in Boston, Massachusetts, until December,
1822, when Holman died. He left, a his heirs; the lessors of the
plaintiffs.
There was no proof of any.paper title in Lucy'Landty or her
father, except the will above stated. Her possession commenced'
in the year 1800, or prior to that time; and it was-proved that her
enclosure extended on Royal street, the whole distance claimed
in the declaration; and, on the east it fellowed the high-water
mark of -the Mobile river.
It was proved that Water street, which runs parallel with
Royal street and the Mobile river, was an irregular bank, reaching from St. Francis street southerly, the length of the city,
formed by a deposit of shells and earth, a'nd was higher than any
land east of it, or any land to which the. water. extended. This
land was not subject to inundation, though in maiiy places the
water ran acfoss it.

52

SUPREME COURT.
[Watkins v. Holman et aL]

Until the improvements by Holman, the lot in controversy was
not susceptible of occupancy. Water street was laid out in 1817
or 1818, and the lot in dispute lies east of that street and east of
the high land above described... The ridge or high land was protected by the Spanish authorities'; no person was permitted to
remove the earth or improve on the ground. It was called the
king's highway and landing-place. And after the American
authorities took possession, the general impression seemed to be
that the ground east of Water street did not belong to the proprietors of lots west of it. But these proprietors in some
instances made entries on this gtound; and in others, entries were
made by the corporate authorities of the city.
.Under this state of doubt, the act of Congress of the 26th of
May, 1824, wa passed. Holman, it seems, built a, wharf and
warehouse on the lot in 1819 or 1820, and these were amohg the
earliest improvements made east of Water street.
'The defendants proved that since the year 1823, they, or those
under whom they claim, have had the exclusive possession of the
lot; and that they made valuable improvements thereon. They
gave in evidence copies of deeds from Lucy Landry to M'Kinsie
and Swett, and, from them to Oliver Holman. They also exhibited in evidence a title-bond, dated the 29th of September, 182.1,
from Holman to Brown, for half of the land conveyed to him by
M'Kinsie and Swett, excepting certain parts described. The'
deed was to be executed in two years. A map was also in evidence, purpQrting to have been made in 1-760, by a Freng surveyor. The map represented the land lying near the river as
divided into oblong squares bounded by streets, and that the vacant space between the river and the front line of the square had
the word "qirai" written upon it. But it is not shown by what
authority this map was made, or that it governed in the sale of
lots. Until the year 1817. the king's wharf was the only one in
the city.
To explain the nature and extent of Lucy Landry's claim and
possession,*certain documents from the land-office at St. Stephen's,
Alabama, were offered in evidence; and also an act of the legislature of Alabama, passed the 21st of December, 1823, authorizing the administratrix of Oliver Holman to sell the real estate
of which he died seised in the city of Mobile. It was proved

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

53

-[Watkins v.Holman et al.]

that Holman's estate was insolvqnt; and it Was admitted that the
attorneys of the administratrix, named in the act, had given the'
bond required before the premiies in question were sold. The
deed made in pursuance of the sale under the act of the legislature
was. read; also a record of certain proceedings in the Supreme
Court of Massachusetts, 'wherein a license to the administratrix
was given to make a deed in pursuance of the. title-bond to
Brown, and the deed. that was made under this authority.
The Court instructed the jury that the act of Alabama wa
unconstitutional and void, and that no title passed under it; and
that the proceedings in the Massachusetts Court were inoperative,
and did not authorize the administratri x to convey the title.
The Court also overruled, as evidence,'the documents above
offered, contained in a volume of state papers published under
the authority of Congress.
Exceptions were taken to the rulings of the Court, and to their
instructions to the jury; and on these, the questions for consideration ,arise.
The plaintiff in error asks a rev rsal of these judgments on
two grounds.
1. Because the lessois of the plaintiff showed no legal title.
2. Because the defendant established a title in himself.
On the part of'the defendant's counsel it is contended, that, as
the plaintiff in error claims under Holmn, he cannot question
his title: and in support of this position the cases of Jackson
ex dem. v.Bush, 10 Johns. 223; Jackson ex dem. Bowne v.
Hinman, 16 Johns. 292, 2,93, are relied on. But these are cases
in which the lessors of the plaintiff claimed under sheriffs' sales;
and the defences set up were under the defendants in the judgments. The Court say, "The rule, excluding a defendant against
whom there .has been a judgment and execution from defeating
the purchaser's recovery of his possession, by setting up a title
in some third person, is founded on justice and policy; and the
reason of the rule equally applies where such defendanthas, in
the mean time, delivered up his possession to another." The
case of Brant ex dem. Cnyler et al. v. Livermore, cited from thesame volunre, arose between landlord and tenant. And the decision relied on in Schauber v.Jackson, 2 Wendell, 14, does not
sustain the ground assumed.
E2

SUPREME COURT.
[Watkai

v. Holman et al1)

The relation of landlord and tenant in no sense exists between
the vendor and =endee; and this is especially the case where a
conveyance hias been executed. In the language of this Court,
in the case of Blight's Lessee v. Rochester, 7 Wheat. Rep. 548,
the vendee acquires the property for himself, and his faith is not
pledged to maintain the title of the vendor. If the vendor has
actu ily made a conveyance, his title is extinguished." And
the Court say, Q:The property having become, by the sale, the
property of the vendee, he has a right to fortify that title by the
purchase of any other which may protect him in the quiet enjoyment of the premises."
To the saine effect are the cases of the Society for the Propagation, &c., v. the town of Pawlet, &c., 4 Peters, 506; Jackson
ex dem. Bradstreet v. Huntington, 5 Peters, 402; Thomas Willison.v. Watkins, 3 Peters, 43.
tucky, it is well established that a purchaser, who has
obtained a conveyance, holds adversely to the vendor, and may
controvert his- title. Voorhies v. White's heirs, 2 Marshall, 27;
Winlock v. Hardy, 4 Lit. Rep. 274. And this is the settled doctrine on the subject.
The plaintiff in error contends, as the lessors of the plaintiff
have shown no paper title emanating from the government, they
must be considered as trespassers; and that their right is strictly
limited to the pedig possessio of the occupants under whom they
claim. That a mere trespasser cannot set up the right of a riparian proprietor, unless his enclosures are extepded so as to include
the alluvial formations.
In the case of Ewing's Lessee v. Burnet, 11 Peters, 41,
this Court held that an enclosure was not necessary to show
possession, under the statute of limitati ns. That for this purp6se
it is sufficiefnt to show visible and notorious acts of ownership
exercised over the premises.
In this case it appears that the proprietors of the contiguous
lots, by a deposit of earth and other means, contributed to the
new formation on the shore of the river; so ihat this formation
was not wholly attributable -to the action of the tides. And it
may well be contended that this labour of the proprietors made
their claim and possession of the water-lot as notorious as if it
ad been surrounded by an enclosure. It appears, too, that the

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

55

-[Watkins v. Holman et aL.

wharf and warehouse were erected by Holman on .the lot in
dispute., as soon As it was susceptible of occupation. These-facts,
connected with the possession of the adjacent lot'since 1785,
present a strong ground to presume a title. And so far as regards the controversy between the parties to this record, andlooking only at the facts and circumstances before us, we think
that the Ibt in dispute may be considered as included in the title
of Hoflnan.
The position assumed by the plaintiff's cohnsel, that a mere
intruder is limited to his actual possession; and that the rights
of a riparian proprietor do not attach to him, is correct. He can
have no rights beyond his possession. The doctrines of the common law on this subject have been taken substantiall# from'the
civil law. In the case of the Mayor of New Orleans v. The
United States, 10 Peters, 662, we had occasion to examine this
doctrine, especially in reference to -the laws of Spain.
The act of Congress of the 26th May, 1824, entitled "_An 'act
granting certain lots of ground to the Corporation of the city. of
Mobile, and to certain individuals of said citil embraces the lot
in controversy; whether the title be -ested in the lessors of the
plaintiff, the defendants in the ejectment, or in the city of Mobile.
As no right to this lot is asserted on the part of the' city, we can
now only consider.the law as affecting the title before us.
At the time the law was passed, either the plaintiffs or defendant were the proprietors of the front lot, and claimed-the water
lot with its improvements; and this' brings them within any
known construction of the act of 1824. It relinquished to the
proprietor or proprietors of the front lot, under the circumstances
of this case, whatever right, if any, the United States had to the
water lot.
The volume of state papers offered in evidence by the defendants, we think, should have been admitted. This volume was
published under an act of Congress, and contains the authentication required by the act. Its contents are, therefore, evidence.
The recital in the preanible of a public act of Parliament of a
public fact, s evidence to prove the existence of that fact. Rex
v. Sutton, 4 Maule and Selwyn, 532 ; Starkie on Evidence, 197.
The journals of the House of Lords have always been admitted
as evidence of their proceedings, even in criminal cases; and the

56

SUPREME COURT.
[Watkins v. Holman et al.]

journals of the House of lommons are also admissible. It is
said that the journals, are not evidence of particular facts stated
in the resolutions, which are not a part of the proceedings of the
House; lis, for instance, a resolution stating the existence of ;
popish plot would not be evidence of the fact in a criminal case.
Jones.v. Randall, Cowp. Rep. 17; 5 Term Rep. 465; Doug. 572;
Starkie's Ev. 199.
. In this country, in all public matters, the journals of Congress
and of 'the state legislatures are evidence; and also. the -repotts'
which have been sanctioned and published by authority. This
publication does not make thiat, evidence which, intrinsically, is,
not so ; but it give* in a most authentic form certain papers and
documents. In the lcase under consideration the volume of doeuments Was offered to show the report of certain commissioners
under an act of Congress confirming the title in question. Now,
thii original report, dufy authenticated by the treasury departrefit, to which it was made, would be evidence) an.d it is evidence
in the published volume. The very highest authenticity attaches
to thesb state papers ublished under the sanction of Congress.
We-cbme now to consider the' proceedings, in the Supreme
Court. of Massachlisetts. These proceedings'took place undcr a
statuteof that state, and were founded upon the title bond given
to Brown by Holman. tor nearly a moiety of the lot purchased
by him from 'M'Kinsie and Swett. Brown' applied To the Cofrt
by petition, setting out the title bond and representing that Hol,
mah had' deceased, without njaking a deed; -and h6 prayed that
Sarah Holman,.his administratrix, might be liceiised and empowered to execute to him such a conveyance of the premises
as Holman would have been obliged to make if he were living.
Sarah Holman, as widow and administratrix, certified to the
Court- that- she had read, and had due notice of the petition of
Brown, and that she had no objection to the prayer of it.
And the guardian of Sarah Holman and Oliver Holman,
minors and childreli of Oliver Holman, deceased, certified that
they. also had notice, and that they had nothing to allege against
the prayer of the petition.The Court, on hearing the petition, licensed and empowered
the administratrix to make the deed. And in pursuance of tis

JANUARY TERM, 184.

57

[Watkins v. Xblmiu et &L],

order she executed 4 deed in conformity with the bohd to Biowv,
the iOt. March, 1824.
That this deed is inoperative is clear. I3 was.execut6d by the
,administratrix under a decree or order of the Supreme Court in
Massachusetts, and by virtue of a statute -of that state. The
proceeding, it is n6t .pretended, was authbrized by any law of
Alabama. And no principle is better established than that the
.disposition of real estate, whether by deed, descen, or by any
other mode, must be goVerned bv the law. of the state Where the
"land is situated.
A C6urt of Chancery, adting in'personam, may well decree the
conveyance of land in any other state, and -may enforce their
decree by process against the defendant. But neither the decree
itself, nor any conveyance under it, except by therperson in.whomr
the title is vestpd, can operate beyond the Jurisdictibn of the
Court.
-The Massac ,asetts Court, in granting this license to the administratrix, did not'exercise Chancery powers. Neither the adminisratrix nor the. minor, heirs were made parties 'andrequired to
answer, as a procedure in.Chancery: It was a proceeding at law,
informal and summary in its character. The administratrix only
was required to execute the conveyance. By the laws of Alabama, she had no power to dispose of the real estate of her husband, as administratrix; except for the payment of t~i debts of
the estate, under the sanction of law.
But the defendants insist that the title-bond. given to Brown by.
Holman, for a part .of the premises, constituted a good defence
in the action; that, the consideration having been paid, Holman
and his heirs .held the property in trust for Brown and his assignees; and that a Court of Law will give effect to the trast, at
least so far as to prevent the trustees from recovering the possession against the cestui que trust.
This doctrine seems to have been sanctioned, to some extent,
in New York, in the cases of Foot and Litchfield v. Colvin and
others, 3 Johns. Rep. 216; .Jackson ex dem. Benson v. Matsdorf
et al 11 Johns. Rep. 91; Jackson ex dem. Sulye v.Moore, 16 Johns.
Rep. 197. These decisions may have been influenced somewhat
by the statute concerning uses in that state, which subjects th6
estate of the cestui que trust to execution. In one of the cases,

SUPREME COURT.
[Watkins v. Holman et al.]

Spencer, Justice, giving the opinibn of the Court, says, "Without
the aid of the statute, I consider James Litchfield, if he advanced
the purchase-money, as having an intC,est liable to be sold on
execution."
In the case of Jackson ex dem. W4lton v. Leggett, 7 Wend.
Rep. 377, the Court remark, "the legal estate must prevail."
"1The only exception to the rule is in the case of a resulting trust:
in such case the trust may be proved by parol, and the estate of
the cestui que trust may be sold on execution, and has been so
far considered the property of the cestui que trust, as to be a
defence in an action of ejectment."
This was the doctrine of the Lord Mansfield, in the case of
Armstrong and others v. Peirse and others, 3 Bur. Rep. 1899. In
Doe on the demise -of Bristow v. Pegge, 1 Term R6p. 758, note
a, he lays down the broad doctrine," that a trust shall never be
set up against him for whom the trust was intended;" and the
other judges concurred.
It is known that that great judge had a strong leaning to the
principles of equity in trials at common law. His successor
seemed to be under a diffeient influence; although he had been
Master of the Rolls for some years. This equitable doctrine in
a Court of Law was- overruled in the case of Doe on the demise
of Hodsden v. Staple, 2 Term Rep. 684.. Lord Kenyon says,
"Is it possible for a Court of Law to enter into the discussion *of
such nice points of equity? We have no such authority. Sitting in this Court, we must look at the record, and see whether a
legal title is conveyed to the party claiming under tlhese instruments: now, there is no colour for saying that these give any
legal title. Without deciding, or presuming to think what 4
Court, of Equity would do in this case, it .is enough for me to
say that we are to decide a legal question, and cannot enter into
such an entangled equity."' The other judges, except Buller,
concurred with the chief justice.
In Doe on the demise of Shewen v. Wroot and others, 5 East
Rep. 132, Lord Ellenborough said, "We can only look to the
legal estate, and that is clearly not in the devisees, but in the heir
at law of the'surrenderor; and if the devisees have an equitable
interest, they must claim it elsewhere, and not in a Court of Lai.
For as to the doctrine that the legal. estate cannot be set up at

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

59

[Watkins v. Holman et al.]

law by a trustee against his cestui que trust, that has been long
Irepudiated." And this is the settled doctrine in England
o'n this'
subject; and, with few exceptions, in this c6untrk. In the states
where no Courts of Chancery are established, Courts of.Law, in
giving relief, of necessity, trench upon an equitable jurisdiction.
It is not perceived why a Court of Law should.rdgard a resulting trust more than other equitable rights; and any attempt, to
give'effect to these rights at law, through the initrumentality of
a jury, must lead to confusion and uncertainty.- Equitable and
legal jurisdictions have been wisely separated; and the soundest
maxims of jurisprudence require each to be exercisedin its appropriate sphere. We. are clearly of the opinion that the titlebond in question, constituted no defence in the above action.
Whether any title passed under the Alabama statute, is the last
point to be considered.
The act authorized. the administratrix of the.
late Oliver Holman, resident in the city of Boston, Massachusetts, to sell by
Nathaniel 'Littlefield and Gorham Davenport, her attorneys in
fact, the real estate of which the said Holman died seised, in
the city of Mobile, "1on such terms, and in such manner, as may.
be deemed most advantageous to his estate." "The second section authorized the administratrix, by her attorneys, to convey
the premises to the purchaser." And the third section provided
that before the sale the attorneys shall give bond with sufficient
security for the faithful payment of the money received by them
to the administratrix, "to be appropriated to the payment of the
debts of the deceased."
Under this law, a sale was made, and a conveyance executed to
Brown, by Sarah Holman and her attorneys in fact, the 24th
April, 1824.
This act of the legislature, it is contended, is in violation of the
,constitution of Alabama; and, with the proceeding under it, is
consequently void.
The first section of the second article of the constitution declares that ""the powers of the government of the state of Ala.bama shall be divided into three distinct departments: and each
of them confided to a separate body of magistracy, to wit: those
which are legislative, to one; those which are executive, to another; and those which are judicial, to another." And the second

SUPREME COURT.
[Watkins v. Holman et al.]

section declares that "no person or collection of persons, being
of one of those departments, shall exercise any power properly
belonging to either of the others, except in the instances hereinafter expressly directed or permitted."
The passage of the statute, it is insisted, was a judicial act by
the legislature, which the constitution inhibits.
On the part of the plaintiffs in error, a great number of acts of
this character, by the Alabama legislature, shortly after the adoption of the constitution,.are cited, to show a settled construction
of thaf instrument. The defendants in error referred to reports
by committees, of the legislature, which maintained the unconstitutionality of these acts. And it is asserted and not contradicted,
that since that report, under a conviction of its soundness, the
legislature have passed no laws on the subject. A manuscript
decision of a Circuit Court in Alabama, in the case of Campbell
and Havre v. Scales and others, was read; but the question now
under consideration seems not to have been raised. In almost all
the states, laws of this description are common; and the titles to
an immense amount of property depend upon their validity.
The phraseology of the constitution of Alabama in regard to
the distribution of its powers, is somewhat peculiar; but it is not
substantially different- from the constitutional provisions of some
of the other states. "The third section of the Virginia constitution
declares that "the legislative, executive, and judiciary departments shall be separated and distinct, so that neither exercise the
powers properly belonging to the other."
Indeed, in all the state constitutions, the legislative, judicial,
and executive functions are vested in different functionaries; and
itwould seem to follow, that the powers thus specially given
should be exercised under their appropriate limitations. The inhibition of the Alabama constitution contains, in terms, that which
necessarily arises from the construction of the constitutions of
other states.
IXnsome cases it is difficult to draw a line that shall show with
precision the limitation of powers; under our form of government. The executive, in acting upon claims for services rendered,
may be said to exercise, if nt in form, in substance, a judicial
power. And so a Court, in the-use of a discretion essential to its
existence, by the adoption of rtles or atherwise, may be said to

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

61

(Watkins v.Holman et aLl
legislate. A legislature, too, in providing for the payment of a
claim, exercises a power in its nature judicial; but this is coupled
with the paramount and remedial power.
But, whatever difficulty may arise in certain cases, in regard
to the exercise of these powers, there would seem to be little or
none in the case under consideration.
The character of the act in question is essentially remedial. It
contains no other feature. An authority is given to the administraTix to sell, in a particular manner, the property in dispute, for
the payment of the debts of the intestate. The act does not determine the amount of the debts, nor to whom they are payable.
it is proved, however, that the estate was insolvent. And it is
conformably to the settled policy of Alabama, to apply the real
estate of a deceased person in payment of his debts. The case
under considerqtion, the administratrix residing in Massachusetts,
and being desirous of selling the property through her attorneys
in fact, was not embraced by the general statute on the subject;
and hence the necessity of the special authority.
Now, how does this act differ in principle from the general law
on the same subject? The general law was passed from the
knowledge which the legislature had of its expediency and necessity. The special law was passed from a knowledge of its propriety in the particular case. The power exercis6d in passing
the special as well as the general law, was remedial.
Under the general law, application is required to be made by
the executor or administrator to the County Court, representing
that the personal estate is not sufficient to pay the debts of the
deceased: that he left real estate; particularly describing it, and
-praying that it may be sold, &c. A notice is required to be given
to the heirs and devisees, &c., who are to answer, &c., and the
Court on the hearing are authorized to dedree a sale of the -state,
on the petitioner's giving bond, &c.
The mode of procedure under the general law was required
bydhe legislature, from motives of expediency; but it by no
means follows that it was the only mode they could adopt.. In
some of the states, the heirs or devisees ate not required to. be
made parties by the administrator. His application is ex parte
to the Court; which orders a sale ofthe real estate to pay the debts
of the deceased, where the persQnal estate is insufficient. And
Voz.. XVIL-F

62

SUPREME COURT
[Watldns o. Holman et al.]

no doubt can be entertained .that the legislature may authorize
the administrator, by a general or a special act, to sell lands to
pay debts, where the personal assets are exhausted, without any
application to the Court. And in such case the administrator
would act on his own responsibility, and be accountable to the
creditors and heirs for the correct performance of his trust, in this,
as in other parts of his duty.
This is a question of power and not of policy; and on such
a qliestion we cannot test the act by any considerations of expediency . Whether the act may be open to abuse, whether it be
politic or impolitic, is not a matter now before us: but whether
the legislature had power to pasi it.
A report in the senate of Alabama on this subject says; "Upon
the death of the ancestor, the real estate owned by him descends
to and vests in his heirs, and 'the title thu vested cannot be
divested without some proceeding to which the heir is a party.
A minor could not legally assent to the passage of a law authorizing the sale of his real 'estate; but would have the right to
affirm or disaffirm the sale when he arrived at lawful age."
This is laid down on general principles, and without reference
to the constitution of Alabama As a legal proposition, it 'is
wholly unsustainable.
In the first place, it is contrary to the general practice of many
of the states, and to the received notions of the profession on the
subject. Titlesin Ohio and in many other ,states, to a vast
afniount of real property, rest upon sales of executors and administrators under the order of a Court, without making the heirs
parties; and it' is believed that a doubt of the' validity of such
titles, .where the proceedings have been regular, has never been
entertained or expressed. These titles have been contestedin
State Courts and in this Court; and a defect of'power to convey a
good title in the mode authorized, it 'is believed, has never been
,objected.
A course of proceeding so extensive, involving. interests so
great, and which has been.subjected to the severest legal scrutiny,
isno unsatisfactory evidence of what the law is.
But, on principle, this proceeding is sustainable. On the death
of the ancestor, the land owned by hiin descends to his heirs.
But how do they hold it?' They hold it subject to the payment

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

"63

[Watkins v. Holman et al.]

of the debts of the ancestor, in those states where it is liable to
such debts.
The heirs cannot alien the land to the prejudice of creditors.
In fact and in law they have no right to the real estate of their
ance.,tor, except that of possession, until the creditors shall be
paid.
As it regards the'question of power in the legislature, no objection is perceived to their subjecting the lands of the deceased
to the payment of his debts, to the exclusion of his personal property. The legislature regulates descentS, and the conveyance
of real estate. To define the rights of debtor and creditor is their
common duty. The whole range of remedies lies within, their
province. They may authorize a guardian to convey the lands
of an infant; and indeed they may give the capacity to theinfant
himself to convey them. The idea that the lands of an infant
which descend to him, cannot be made responsible for the payment of the debts of the ancestor, except through the decree of a
Court of Chancery, is novel and unfounded. So far from this
being the case, no doubt is entertained that the legislature of a
state have power to subject the lands of a deceased person to execution in the same manner as if he were living. The mode in
which this shall be done is a question of policy, and rests in the
discretion of the legislature.
The'law under which the lot in dispute was sold decides no
fact binding on creditors or heirs. If the administratrix and
Brown have acted fraudulently in 'procuring the passage of this
act, or in the sale under it, relief may be given on that ground.
But the act does nothing more than provide a remedy, which is
strictly within the power of the legislature.'
The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the cause
remanded for further proceedings, in accordance with this opinion.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the southern
district of Alabama, and wa: argued by counsel. On considertion whereof, It is now here ,considered, ordered, and adjudged
by this Court, that the judgment of the said Circuit. Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs; and that
this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Cir-'

SUPREME COURT.

64

[Watkinstv. Holman et al.]

cuit Court, with directions for further proceedings to be had therein,
according to law and justice, and in conformity to the opinion of
this Court.
Gustavus Beall et al.
V.

The Lessee of Holman et al.
This case was also brought before the Court by a writ of error
to the Circuit Court for the northern district of Alabama, on substantially the same grounds as those considered in the above opinion. There is no material difference in the facts on which the
judgment of the Court rests, between the two cases. The judgment of the Circuit Court in this case is also-reversed; and the
cause remanded for further proceedings.

