JANUARY TERIM; 1842.

169

HYDE AND GLuISES, AND H. LOCKET, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V.
BOORAEM AND COMPANYK, DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.
Louisiana. The-defendants in error, merchants in New York, agreed with the plain-,
tifis in error, H. and G., merchants in Now Orleans, that endorsed notes should be
given by H. and G., for a certain sum, being the amount due by-H. and G.to B. and
Co., and other notes or drafts of H. and G., payable in New York, which endorsed
notes were to be deposited in the hands of L., to be delivered to B. and Co., on
their performing their agreement with H. and G.; part of which was to take up certain drafts and notes given by H. and G., and payable in New York. The notes, endorsed according, to the agreement, were drawn and delivered to .L. B. and Co.
performed all their contract, excepting the payment of a draft for two thousand dollars, and a note for one thousand five hundred and sixty-eight dollars and seventyfour cents, which, from inability, they did not pay; and the same were returned to
New Orleans, and were there paid, with damages and interest, by H. and G., at great
loss and inconvenience. The notes deposited with L. amounted to upward of
seven thousand dollars beyond the draft for two thousand dollars, and the notes
for one thousand five hupd red and sixty-eight dollars and seventy-four cents. B. and
Co. filed a petition according to the Louisiana practice, praying for a decree by which
the endorsed notes in the hands of L. should be delivered to them, equal to the
balance due to themn. The district judge gave a decree in favour of B. and Co., in
conformity with the petifion. Held, that the decree was erroneous : and the Court
reversed the same, and ordered the case to be remanded, and the petition to be dismissed with costs, by the Circuit Court of Louisiana.
The Supreme Court has no authority, as an appellant Court, upon a writ of error, to
revise the evidence in the Court below, in order to ascertain whether the judge rightly
interpreted the evidence, or drew-right conclusions from it. That is the proper province of the jury; 6r of the judgb himself, if the trial by jury is waived, and it is
submitted to his personal decision. The Court can only re-examine the law, so far as
he has pronounced it, upon a state of facts; and not merelyupon the evidence of facts
found in the record in the making of a special verdict, or an agreed case. If either
party in the Court below is dissatisfied with the' ruling of the judge in a matter of
law, that ruling should be brought before the Supreme Court, by anI appropriate exception, in the nature of a bill of exceptions; and phould not be mixed up with the
supposed conclusions in matters of fact.
The contract between B. and Co. and H. anti G. was, what the French law, the basis
of that of Louisiana, calls a commutative contract, involving mutual and reciprocal
obligations; where the acts to be done on one side form the consideration for.those to
be done on the other.
Upon principles of.general justice, if the acts are to be done at the same time, neither
party to such a contract could claim a fulfilment thereof; unless he had first performed,
or was ready to perform, all the acts required on his own part.
When the entire fulfilment of the contract is contemplated as the basis of the arrangement, the contract, under the laws of Louisiana, is treated as indivisible; and

VOL. XVI.-P

22

SUPREME COURT.
[Hyde and Gleises v. Booraem and Company.]
neither party can compel the other to a specific performance, unless he complies
with it in toto.

IN error to the District Court of the United States for East
Louisiana. ,
Booraem and Company, merchants of New York, agreed with
Hyde and Gleises, merchants of New Orleans, who were indebted to them, to give them an extension of time for the payment of the amount due by them, if they would give their notes,
payable at subscquent periods, for a certain sum, the notes to be
endorsed, and deposited with H.. Locket, and to be delivered to
them on their having paid certain engagements, due in New
York; and the amount of which was included in the amount
of the notes deposited in the hands of H. Locket. The notes
were given and-deposited in pursuance of this agreement; and
Booraem and Company performed all the matters contained in
the agreement, excepting that they did not pay a draft for two
thousand dollars, and a note for one thousaird seven hundred and
sixty-eight dollars and seventy-four cents, due and payable in
New York; being unable to pay the same. The draft and note
were returned to New Orleans, and Hyde and Gleises, at great
inconvenience and loss, paid for the same.
Booraem and Company, proceeding according to the practice
in Louisiana, filed a petition in the District Court, then exercising
the powers of a Circuit Court of the United States, asking that
the notes of Hyde and Gleises, in the hands of H. Locket, tpking
from the same a sufficient amount to repay to them, Hyde and
Gleises, the amount of the two -thousand dollars' draft, and the
note for one thousand five hundred and sixty-eight dollars and
seventy-four cents, should, by a decree of the Court, be ordered to
be delivered to them.
After a full hearing of the case, on the petition, the answer:
and the testimony, the District Court gave a decree in favour of
the 'petitioners; and the defendants prosecuted this writ of error.
The case is fully stated in the opinion of the Court.
Mr. Key and Mr. Henderson argued the cause for the plaintiffs
error; and Mr. Coxe appeared and argued the cause for the
defendants.

-in

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

171.

[Hyde and Gleiss v. Booraem and Company.]

.Mr. Key and Mr. Henderson contended that- the record shows,
beyond cavil, that the special contractsued On'was executoryand
dependent in its terms of execution on.both sides. Booraem and
Company agreed to cancel. 4nd extinguish certain liabilities and
evidences of debt then due them by Hyde and Gleises, and to
take up and extinguish others to become dtLe, and pbrt of which
Booi aemand Company had passed from their hands. On this consideration,. Hyde and Gleises undertook to furnish Booiaem and
Company with new evidences of debt, payable at a more remote
day than that to which any of the former liabilities extended, and to
giv&approved endorsers on most of the new paper. Now, the obvious understanding of the parties to this agreement was, that s6
soon as the first set of securities was taken up and delivered to
Hyde and Gleises, that the second set of securities, prepared and
placed in the hands of a mutual depositary, should then be delivered over. So understood Mr. Locket, the depositary. So did
Booraem and Companyas. shown by their subsequent letterofdate'
26th May, 1837 i an4 so it is averred by Hyde and Gleises. This
is just; and Courts favour the principle of dependent contracts
because most just. '1 Peters, 465.
It will be observed, also, that this. suit is not to recover money
due by contract. Nor is it to recover damages for breach of contracr. Nor is it an action of detinue and trover. But it is an
attempt to have decreed a partial, specific performance of a con.
tract, for delivery of chattels or choses in action. Now, the rule
is universal, that he who asks a specific performance, must himself have performed or be in a condition to perform his part.
1 Wheat. R. 178; 2 Wheat. 290.
But this record admits the agreement, and acknowledges the default of the plaintiff; 'and thereupon the Court proceeds to reform
and remodel the contract, to correspond with the delinquency of
the plaintiff. This the defendant, insisting on the terms of his
agreement, objects to.
The Court below has made in its direction a new contract,
different from what the plaintiff set forth; adverse to the proof in
the case, and to the will of the defendants. This is equally unauthorized by legislative or judicial power. 2 Sumner's C. C. R.
278; I Peters, 14 4 Wheat. 316; 8 Wheat. 1.
We submit, too, that, though T. R. Hyde and Brothers, and W

SUPREME COURT.
(Hyde and Gleises v. Booraem and Company.]

T. Hepp, the endorsers, are not parties to the action, yet they must
be noticed as parties to the contract, and parties whose interests
are affected. by this judgment. It is not sufficient that they may
defend themselves when sued on the paper. The Court should
not expose them to the jeopardy of a suit, by decreeing a delivery
of their paper to Booraem and Company; unless it is found, in
the terms of the contract, that .the conditions and contingencies
have happened on which it should be so delivered. If the decree
is to affect their interests at all, as it manifestly does; will not the
Court look to see what these interests and their agreement are?
It is perceived, then, that these persons are the sureties of Hyde
and Gleises, on the terms of their contract. And if Hyde and
Gleises had consented to change the contract without consent of
the sureties, they would not have been bound, even though beuleficial to their interests. There is no equity against a surety; but
such have a right to stand on the exact terms of their contract.
9 Wheat. 680; 12 Wheat. 511 ; Paine's C. C. R. 305; 3 Wash.C. C. R. 70.
Mr. Coxe, for the defelidants in error, cited 4 Louisiana Rep.
465; 3 Louisiana Rep. 1; Code of Practice in Louisiana, 517,
487, 488, 489 ; 7 Martin's Rep. 21 ; 1'New Series, 187; 4 New
Series, 21; 8 New Series, 379; 1 Peters, 620; Louisiana Code,
article 602, 2040, 2042; 3 New Series, Louisiana Rep. 606, 607.
Mr. Justice STOtY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is the case of a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the
eastern district of Louisiana. The original suit was brought conformably t6 the Louisiana practice by petition, ii which Booraem
and Company, the original petitioners, state, that two of the original defendants, Hyde and Gleises, merchants of New Orleans,
being indebted to the petitioners in a considerable sum, did, in
April, 1837, deliver to the petitioners certain promissory notes, to
wit, three notes drawn by Hyde and Gleises to the order of, and
endorsed by, T. R. Hyde andBrothers, dated he 6th of April, 1837,
at six, twelve, and eighteen months, amounting to five thousand dollars; and three notes drawn by the same drawers to the
order of, and endorsed by William T. Hepp, dated on the 6th of
April, 1837, at seven, eleven, and fifteen months, amounting to five

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

173

[Hyde and Gleises v. Booraem and Company.]

thousand dollars ; and three notes drawn by the same drawers,
to the order of Booraem and Company, dated the 6th of April,
1837, at nine, thirteen, and seventeen months, amounting to two
thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars and sixty-four cents.
The petitioners then state that on receipt of the notes, they, the
petitioners, agreed to extinguish any and all demands which they
had against Hyde and Gleises, or for which the petitioners had
become responsible by account, note, or acceptance, previous to
the 6th of April, 1837; and which, including interest and exchange, amounted to eleven thousand seven hundred and ninetyeight dollars and sixty-four cents. The petitioners then aver that
they did pay and extinguish the said demands, with the exception of a draft for two thousand dollars, and a note for one thousand five hundred and sixty-eight dollars and severity-four cents,
which they were unable to provide the means of taking up, and
which have since been taken up by Hyde and Gleises. The
petition, then goes on to state that these notes were left in the
hands of H. Locket, Esq., the other defendant, at New Orleans,
who had been notified not to dispose of them to the prejudice of
the rights of the petitioners; that they had demanded the delivery of five of the notes, to wit, three endorsed by Hepp, (the
others drawn to the order of, and endorsed by Hyde and Brothers,
being omitted in this part of the petition by mistake,) arfd a balance in cash of four hund:ed and sixty-nine dollars and twelve
cents, according to the account annexed; that they had also demanded a delivery of the same five notes from .Locket; but he
had refused to deliver the same, The petitioners therefore prayed,
that they might have a judgment of the Court decreeing a delivery to them by Locket of the three notes drawn by Hyde and
Gleises to'the order of T. R. Hyde and Brothers, and two of the
three notes drawn to the order of William T. Hepp, one at eleven
months for fifteen hundred dollars, and the other for two thousand dollars at fifteen months; and decreeing Hyde and Gleises
to pay the said balance of four hundred and sixty-nine dollars
and twelve cents; and they also prayed for further relief.
Such is the substance of the petition, which does not seem to
be drawn with entire accuracy and precision. Annexed to the
petition is a receipt, signed by Booraem and Company, acknowledging the receipt of the nine notes described in the petition, and
P2

174

SUPREME COURT.
[Hyde and Gleises v. Booraem and Company.]

that they are given for the purpose of extinguishing the demands
against Hyde and Gleises,.before the 6th of April, 1837, as stated
in the petition; and then adding the following clause: "4Should
Joshua B. Hyde, of the firm of Hyde and Gleises, now in New
York, have settled for the draft of two thousand dollars, paid by
Booraem and Company, on the 15th of March, 1837, or for the
sum of tw, thousand one hundred and twenty-eight dollars and
thirty-six cents, by notes or otherwise, the said Booraem and
Company are bound to take them up at maturity, and are included in.said arrangement herein first spe6ified."
Hyde and Gleises in their answer admit the drawing and
endorsing of the notes, and aver that they were prepared for
delivery to the petitioners according to the receipt, which contains
stipulations binding upon the petitioners, and forming conditions
precedent to the delivery of the notes; that to secure a compliance with the agreement, it was mutually agreed that the notes
and receipts should be deposited in the hands of, Locket, to be
delivered to the petitioners when the several conditions mentioned
in the receipt were performed, and only in that event were to be
delivered; .that the petitioners totally neglected and refused to
perform the conditions; and in consequence of such omission and
neglect the defendants, Hyde and Gleises, were forced to pay
and did pay a note of one thousand five hundred and sixty-four
dollars and seventy-four cents, and an accepta ce of two thousand
dollars, with costs and damages, both of which the petitioners had
assumed to pay. That the friends of the defendants, Hyde and
Gleises, were induced to endorse the notes by the reasonable expectation that the defendants would be enabled to meet the notes
from the profits of their business, and save their'endorsers from
loss, if the extensions stipulated in the r;ceipt were granted upon
all the demands of the petitioners: that by reason of the failure
of the petitioners to comply with 'the agreement, and'the pay
ments they were forced to make, they exhausted their resources
and credit, and their business was destroyed, and their ability to
protect their endorsers was utterly at an end; and they conclude
by denying their indebtment in the manner stated in the petition,
and pray that the petitioners maybe cited to answer in reconvention, and be condemned to pay the amount of five thousand dollars to the defendants as damages.

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

175

[Hyde and Gleises v. Booraem and Company.)

The defendant, Locket, by his answer, asserted that the notes
were deposited in his hands by the joint consent of the petitioners and Hyde and Gleises, to be delivered to the petitioners by
him when all the conditions in the receipt were fulfilled by the
petitioners; and he avers that the agreement never was fulfilled
on the part of the petitioners, and that they are not entitled to the
notes.
The endorsers also filed a petition of intervention in the cause;
which, however, was afterwards withdrawn. The petitioners
replied to the plea of reconvention, denying their indebtment.
Upon this state of the pleadings, the cause came before the
Circuit Court for decision, without the intervention of a jury, by
the consent of the -parties, and the final decision was made by
the district judge, upon an examination of the evidence offered
by the parties. The decree was, in effect, that the defendants
ought to pay to the petitioners out of. the notes the balance of
eleven thousand seven hundred and eighty-nine dollars and.
sixty-four cents, after deducting the amount of the note of one
thousand five hundred and sixty-seven dollars and seventy-four
cents, and of the acceptance of two thousand dollars paid by the
.defendants, and the interest thereon ; and that for this purpose four
of the notes in the possession of Locket, to wit: two drawn by
Hyde and Gleises to the order of T. R. Hyde and Brothers, of the
6th of April, 1837, one for two thousand dollars, payable in
eighteen months, and the other for one thousand five hundred
dollars, payable in twelve -nonths, and two other notes drawn
by Ityde and Gleises to the order of W. T. Hepp, dated 6th of
April, 1837, one for two thousand dollars, payable in eighteen
months, and the other for ond thousand five hundred dollars, payable in ereven months, amounting in all to seven thousand
dollars, to be delivered by Locket to the petitioners or their
attorney; and that the remaining five notes be delivered to Hyde
anal Gleises; and that judgment be for the petitioners against
Hyde and Gleises for the remaining unsatisfied sum due to the
petitioners, of seven hundred and seventy-six dollars and ninety
cents. with interest irom the decree.
It is from this judgment that the present writ of error is
brought; the district judge having, at the request of the defendants' co msel, made a statement of the facts on which he relied;

176

SUPRFXME COURT.
(Hyde and Gleises v. Booraem and Company.]

and the record containing, at large, the whole evidence at the
hearing.
One of the embarrassments attendant upon the examination of
this cause, in this Court, is from the manner in which the proceedings were had in the Court below. We have no authority, as an
appellate Court, upon a writ of error, to revise the evidence in
the Court below, in order to ascertain whether the judge rightly
interpreted the evidence or drew right conclusions from it. That
is the proper province of the jury; or of the judge himself, if
the trial by jury is waived, and it is submitted to his personal decision. We can only re-examine the law, so far as he has pronounced it, upon a statement of facts, and not merely a statement
of the evidence of facts, found in the record in the nature of a
special verdict on an agreed case. If either party in the Court
below is dissatisfied with the ruling of the judge in a matter of
law, that ruling should be brought before this Court, by an appropriate exception in the nature of a bill of exceptions, and
should not be mixed up with his supposed conclusions in matters
of fact; unless this is done, it will be found extremely difficult for
this Court to maintain any appellate jurisdicti6n in mixed cases
of the nature of the present. The same embarrassment occurred
in the case of Parsons v. Armor, 3 Peters, 413; and was there
rather avoided by the pressure of the circumstances; than overcome by the decision of the Court. Taking this case, then, as
that was taken, to be one where there is no conflict of evidence,
and all the facts are admitted to sta d on the record, without any
controversy as to their force aid bearing in the nature of a statement of facts, and looking to the allegations And prayer of the
petition, and the facts stated by the judge, the question which
we are to dispose of is, whether, in point of law, upon these facts,
the judgmunt can be maintained. We are of opinion that it cannot be, alid shall now proceed to assign our reasons.
In the first place, it is a material circumstance, that the petition
is not to recover pecuniary compensation or damages for any
supposed benefit conferred upon Hyde and Gleises under the
agreement; but it is in the nature of a bill for a specific performance of that agreement by a delivery up of a part of the notes
deposited in the hands of Locket, not upon the ground of an
entire performance of the agreement on the part of the petitioners;

JANIJARY TERM, 1842.

177

[Hyde and Gleises v. Booraem and Company.]

but confessedly upon the admission, that they have not performed
it, except in part; and therefore seeldng a part performance only,
pro tanto, from the .other side. -Now, the present being that
in the French law, which constitutes the basis of that of Louisiana,
(Code' of Louisiana, art. 1760 to art. 1763,) is called a commutative contract, involving mutual and reciprocal obligations, where
the acts to be done on one side form the consideration for those
to be done on the other; it would seem to follow, upon principles
of general justice, that if.they are to be done at the" same time,
neither party could claim a fulfilment thereof unless he had first
performed or was ready to perform all the acts required on his
own part. And this accordingly will be.found to be the rule of
the Civil Code of Louisiana, (art. 1907,) where it is declared that,
in commutative contracts, where the reciprocal obligations are to
be performed at the same time, or the one immediately after the
other; the party who wishes to put the other in default, must, at
the time and place expressed in or implied in the agreement,
offer, or perform as the contract requires that which on his part
was to be performed, or the opposite party will not be legally put
in default. And again, (art. 1920 and art. 2041,) on the breach
of any obligatibn to do or not to do, the other party in whose
favour the obligation is contracted, is entitled either to damages,
or, in cases which permit it, to a specific performance of the contract, at his option; or he may require the dissolution of the contract. But it is nowhere provided, that the party who has omitted
to perform the acts which he has contracted to perform, can entitle
himself, if the other party has been in no default, either to a specific performance, or to damages, or to a dissolution of the contract; that would be to enable the party committing the default
to avail hinself of his own wrong, to get-rid of the contract.
But it is supposed that where a party has performed his contract only in part, he may, nevertheless, be entitled to a performance, pro tanto, from the other side; although it has been by his.
own default, that there has not been an entire performance.
And certain cases in the Louisiana Reports have been relied on
to establish this doctrine. But these cases, when examined, will
not be found to justify any such broad and general conclusion.
They establish no more than this: that where, in a commutative
contract, there has been a part performance on one side, from,
23

17S

SUPREME COURT.
[Hyde and Gleises v. Booraem and Company.]

which a benefit has been derived by the other side, the other
party is compellable to make compensation in pecuniary damages
to the extent of the benefit which he has received, deducting
therefrom all the damages which he has sustained by the want
of an entire performance thereof. There is nothing unreasonable
in this doctrine ; and although it may not be in many cases recognised and acted upon in the common law, it is often enforced in
equity. But this doctrine is not applicable to all cases of commutative contracts, generally, but only to cases where the contract
is susceptible, from its nature and objects,of divisibility; and where,
not a specific performance, but a mere pecuiiary claim in the
nature of a quantum meruit is sought to be enforced. Thus, in
the case of Loxeau v. Declonat, (3 Louis. R. 1,) where A. agreed
to build a sugar-house for B., for a certain price, and B. *as to
pay for it, when the work Was completed, ana to furnish materials; it was held that if A. failed to complete the work in the
manner stipulated, yet, if B. used the sugar-house, he was
bound to pay for it in money,.the value of the labour he had expended upon it; that is to say.-the value of the benefit- he had
derived from the labour; for the Civil Code of Louisiana (art.
2740) contemplates that B., in such a case, is entitled to damages
for the losses sustained by him from the want of a due fulfilment
of the contract. The same decision was midde trader similar circumstances in the case of Etre v. Sparks, (4 Louis. R. 463.)
But, where the entire fultilment of the contract is contemplated
by the parties as the basis of the arrangement, the contract is
treated as indivisible; and neither party can compel the other to a
specific performance, unless he complies with it in toto. Thus,
if A. should agree to sell B. a ship for ten thousand dollars, or a
horse for five hundred dollars, and B. should pay a part only
of th6 purchase mone'y, as, for example, a fifth or tenth part
thereof; it would hardly be pretended.that he would be entitled
to. a specific performance, pro tanto, by a conveyance of a fifth or
tenth partof the ship or horse. And, on the other hanct, the vencor would lhave no pretence to require that, if he had a good title
only to an undivided fifth or tenth of the ship or horse, that the
purchaser should be comoellable to take that part and pay him,
pro tanto-the purchase money. In every such case it wouild be
manifest that the contract of sale would be'indivisible; and that

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

179

[Hyde ana Gleises v. Booraem and Company.]

each party would have a right, to insist upon an entirety of performance. Now, that is precisely the ground applicable to the
present case. The contract between the parties, was, from its
very character and object, entire and indivisible. Hyde and
Gleises, and their endorsers, entered into the new agreement, and
gave the new notes upon the faith and confidence that the petitioners would punctiliously perform the whole of it on their side.
The object was to procure a prolonged. credit and delay of payment to Hyde and Gleises for all- their debts contracted with the
petitibners; and thus to enable them to retrieve their affairs, rescue themselves from impending ruin, and to make their endorsers
safe. This could be, only, by the petitioners taking up all the
notes and acceptances already given by Hyde and Gleises, according to the stipulations of the petitioners, and thus enabling
them to carry on their operations in business: and it seems to
have been contemplated on all sides, that, by the omission; Hyde
and Gleises might be compelled to stop, and7 their endorsers be
brought into peril; and, indeed, the record shows that the event
actually occurred. If then Hyde and Gleises have failed to
realize the benefits contemplated by the arrangement, by the default of the petitioners, what ground is there to dssert that they,
or their endorsers, ought to be compelled to a specific performance
of a contract pro tanto, when the consideration was a punctilious performance of the entirety? The most that could, uider
such circumstanhes, be contended for, would be to say, not that
Hyde and Gleises should be compelled to give up any part of
the endorsed notes; but that they should be bound to repay to
the petitioners, in money, the amount paid by them for Hyde
and' Gleises, deducting. all damages sustained by the latter by
reason of the nonperformance of the contract, as in the casesalready cited. But that is not the object or the prayer of the
allegations in the present petition.
In the next place, there is another view of the case still more
striking and conclusive. It is not true, as the petition supposes,
that there was any actual delivery of the notes" to the petitioners;
(which might have presented another question;) but in point of
fact, as the evidence fully establishes, the notes were deposited in
the hands of Locket, to bd delivered over to"the petitioners, only.
up-n their full performance of the stipulations on which they were

180

SUPREME COURT.
[Hyde and Gleises v. Booraem and Company.]

to have effect. It is admitted that those stipulations have never been
performed. Upon what ground, then, can the petitioners now demand a delivery of any of the notes, they not having fulfilled the
conditions of the deposit? It has been said that here, by the
giving up of the new notes, the old debts due by Hyde and Gleises
have been' extinguished by novation; and, therefore, their sole
remedy lies upon the new contract and notes given in pursuance
thereof. But that doctrine is by no means true, as it is attempted
to be applied to the circumstances of the present case. A novation will, indeed, if it be absolute and unconditional, amount to
a direct extinguishment of the original debt by substituting the
new contract in its place. This is sufficiently apparent from the
language of the Civil Code of Louisiana, art. 2181 to 2194. But
no extinguishment is wrought if the arrangement is conditional,
and the conditions are not fullycomplied with. Pothier (Pothier
on Obligations, 550, 551) states this in the most clear and explicit
terms. "It follows," says he, "tha, if the debt of which it is
proposed to make a novation by another engagement is conditional, the novation cannot take effect, until the condition is
accomplished :" 'therefore, if there is a failure in the accomplishmeit of the condition, there can be no novation, because there is
no original debt to which the new one can be substituted. Vice
versa, if the first debt does not depend on any condition but the
second engagement, intended as a novation, is conditional, the
novation cn only take effect by the accomplishment of the condition of the new engagement, before the first debt is extinct.
Now, that the giving of these new notes, by way of novation for the old debts, was conditional, is apparent from the fact
that they were not delivered to the petitioners, but were deposited
in the hands of Locket, ,,subject to the provisions of the receipt,"
and to be delivered over by him, only when these conditions were
complied with by the petitioners. So all parties must have understood the transaction; and the deposit in any other view
would be as unaccountable as it would be unmeaning. The
petitioners have never, as they admit byk their petition, complied
with these conditions. How,'then, can they, consistently with
all rules of law, insist upon the transactions being a complete and
absolute novation, entitling them to the delivery of the substituted securities in lieu of the old debts?

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

181

[Hyde and Glelses v. Booraem and Company.]

Nor is the consideration to be lost sight of, that the arrangement does not merely limit itself to the immediate interests of the
debtors and the creditors. The endorsers have rights also, which
must have been intended to be provided for and secured by the
deposit; to which, in reason, they must be presumed to have been
parties, and given their assent. We have no right to presume
that they would have endorsed these notes without the entire con-,
fidence that the new arrangement would be carried out and fulfilled with the most scrupulous punctuality. Their own recourse
over against Hyde and Gleises might otherwise be most materially and injuriously affected. Their object must have been by
securing to Hyde and Gleises the prolonged credit, to have enabled
them to meet the new payments, and thereby exonerate themselves from ulterior responsibility. If, therefore, we were to give
effect to the present suit, the conditions of the novation hot
having been fulfilled, we should either deprive the endorsers of
all the benefits and securities contemplated in the arrangement;
or, at all events, leave them exposed to a -respbnsibiiiy, as endorsers, from which by the very deposit they meant to guard
themselves.
There are other embarrassing difficulties in the frame of the
decree, as to the manner in which it disposes of the notes, and
divides the responsibilities of the respective endorsers without
their consent, and proceeding to adjudge money to the petitioners
fdr the balance. But it is unnecessary to dwell on them, for,
upon the grounds already stated, we are of opinion that the
judgment ought to be reversed, and the cause remanded with
directions to the Court below to dismiss the suit with costs for
the original defendants.

OL. XVI.-Q

