SUPREME COURT.

'IZ

IgMTZ

. F.

STATES, APPELLANTS, V.

CLARxE,

AND

THE

THE

H-IRS Or GzoRGE

HEIRS or GEORGE ATKINSON,

-APPELLEES,

A Florida land claim. A grant of fifteen thousand acres by the Spanish Governor of
East Florida, in consideration of important services performed on behalf of the
government of Spain, to George Atkinson, confirmed by the Supreme Court.
By the eighth article of the Florida Treaty, no grants of land, made after the 24th of
SJanuary, 1818, were valid; nor could , survey be valid on lands other than those
authorized by the grant. Still the power to survey, in conformity to the concessions,
existed up to the change of flags.
Spain had the power to make grants founded on any consideration, and subject to any
restrictions within her dominions. If a grant was binding on that government, it is
so on the United States, the successor of Spain. All the grants of land made by the
lawful authorities of the King of Spain, before the 24th of January, 1818, were, by
the treaty, ratified and confirmed to the owners of the lands.
Cited, Arredondo's Case, 6 Peters, 706; and Percheman's Case, 7 Peters, 51; Sibbald's
Case, 10 Peters, 321.
The grant to Atkinson was for the land hie mentioned in his petition, or for any other
lands that were vacant. Three surveys were made of lands within the quantity
granted, not at the place specially mentioned in the grant, but at other place& Held,
that these surveys were valid, notwithstanding that they were made at difMarent

places.

APPEAL from the Superior Court of East Florida.
This was an appeal from the decree of the Superior Court of
East Florida, confirming the claims of the heirs of Clarke and
Atkinson to fifteen thousand acres of land, under the acts for the
adjustment of land-claims in Florida.
The claim was founded on a petition of George Atkinson, merchant of Fernandina, dated October 8, 1816; and a decree of
Governor Coppinger thereon, dated October 20, 1816. The
petition states many services rendered to government, and
benefits conferred on the province; and prays that his excellency
would be pleased "to grant 'him, in property, fifteen thousand
acres of land in Cedar Swamp, and on the west of the lake
named Upper Little Lake."
The governor's decree states, that, in consideration of the merits
cited, he grants him, in property, the lands he solicits in the
petition; and that the surveyor-general, will run them for him in

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

229

[The United States v. The Heirs of Clarke and Atkinson.]

the places he mentions, or in others that are vacant, and of equal
convenience to the party.
The originals, of the petition and decree were not produced in
evidence, neither are they to be found inthe archives at St. Augustine. A certified copy, under the hand of Thomas de Aguilar,
secretary of the government, (whose handwriting was proved,)
stated'to be faithfully drawn from th original in his office, was
alone offered; and was objected to on the pai$ of the appellants.
The objection was overruled.
There were also produced four several plats and certificates
of survey, maae by George J. F. Clarke, surveyor-general, for
George Atkinson.
1. Dated 20th January, 1818, for four thousand acres of land,
northwardly of Dunn's creek, which runs from Dunn's lake to
the river-St, John's, and above the crossing place of said creek.
2. Dated 12th March, 1818, for three thoiusand acres of land,
on the middle arm of Haw creek, which empties itself into
Dunn's lake, toward the east.
3. Dated 21st ?March, 1818,-for two thousand acrea of lan&, in
the place. called Dupon's hanimock, south.-easterly of Bowlegs'
prairie, and south-westwardlyo of Paynestown..
4. Dated 24th January, 1818, fcr six thousand acres, on Darcey's creek, and extending from the natural bridge- of 8anta Fe,
on the road called Ray's trail.
The petition to the Court in this case, was filed on the 22d day
of May, 1829, in the name of George J. F. Clarke, for hims-elfi
and the heirs and legal representatives of George Atkinson, deceased, an4 sets forth'the-grant.; and that the claim of Atkinson
had .betn filed before 'the land board of East Florida, who -rejected the same, but-,did not report it forged or .antedated; and
that he had legal right, under the said George Atkinson, to
acr~s, p'arcel of the said land.
On the 21st May,-1830, the district-attorney filed his answer,
which, inter alia, states; that "the petitioner had not shown whether or nof th6 said-Gebrge'Atkinson died intestate, or who are
the legal h~irs of the said George Atkinson, whether they are
minors or 6therwise, if any such there be; nor, indeed, has lie
expressly alleged that the said George Atkinson left any legal
heirs or representatives; or that any such now exist; nor has he
VOL. XVI.-U

2S0

SUPREME'COURT.
[The United States v.The Heirs of Clarke and Atkiuson.]

shown.any title in himself to the'said tract of land, or any part
thereof; nor has he stated or get forth in his petition any bargain,
sale, deed, or deeds -of,conveyance from the said George Atkinson, in his lifetime, or from any of the said-legal representatives
-of the said George Atkinson, since his deith, to the said petitioner, to all or any part of the said lands, or in what right he
claims, whether by gift, descent, devise, conveyance, 'or otherwise; and this respondent relies upon the aforesaid defects in the
petition or bill of complaint, as matter of defence on the hegring
of this cause."
Clarke having died, his' heirs, on the 1tih day of July, 1840,
filed a petiion to revive the suit, which was ordered accordingly
on the 16th of July, 1840; and .the cause c~me on to be heard
on the 20th day of.the same month. The counsel for the claimants then moved the Court that the cause might also proceed in
the name of Philip R. Younge, and Mary Younge, his wife;
Samuel Humphries, and Letitia Humphries, his wife; Jane Gains,
widow of Dr. Joseph Gains; and Letitia Atkinson, heirs and
legal representatives of George Atkinson; and, with the assent
of the attorney of the United States, it was ordered accordingly.
No deed or conveyance, or evidence of any kind was offered,
to Show that either Clarke or his heirs had any interest whatever
in the lands.
After ,hearipg testimonyj the Court made a decree in favour of
the clainnts, from which the nresent appeal is taken.
-

The case was argued by Mr. ,Legar6, the attorney-general, for
the United'States. For the United States, it was contended that
the decree otight to be reve sed, on the following grounds:
1. That there is no evidence that Clarke, or his
heirs, had any
interest in the lands; and the petition, so far as, regards them,
ougit to have been dismissed.
2. That"the time limited by the acts of Congress, for the corn.
mpencement of the proceedings in Court, having exr;red before
the heirs of Atkinson were made parties, the Court had' no
jurisdiction as to the validity of the grant, so far as they were
concerned.
3. That there was no sufficient evidence that the said alleged
grant or concession was ever made by overnor Coppinger.

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

231

[The United States t. The Heirs of Clarke and Atkinson.

4. That Governor Coppinger had no authority to, make such
S grant.
5. That the description of the lands, in the said alleged grant,
is too vague to be the foundation of a valid survey.
6. That there is no authority in the said alleged grant to survey four different tracts of land.
No counsel appeared for the appellees.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the Court.
In 18] 6, George Atkinson set forth to the Governor of East
Florida, various important services, through a series of years, performed in behalf of the government, and also many losses; in
consideration of which, he solicited a grant in property of fifteen
thousand acres of land, in 'Cddar swamp;and on the west of
upper Little Lake.
The governor granted the laids in property - and added: "Consequently the surveyor-general will run them for himin the
places he mentions; or in Dthers that are vacant- and of equal
convenience to the -party."
Two places were designated where the lands were to lie by the
petition. They were surveyed on four places: the first survey
for four thousand acres near Dunn's creek: the second for three
thousand ,acres on Haw creek: the-third for two thousand acres,
in Dupon's hammock: and six thousand acres on Darcey's creek.
One bears date the 20th of January, 1818; and the other three in
March, of that year. None of them are on the lands solicited in
the petition. The Court below affirmed-the surveys; and if this
Court concurs in the decree, the United States will be bound to
issue patents for the four tracts. That the complainants are entitled
to the lands.in two surveys, at the places described in the petition, is not questioned; the difficulty is, could the interested party
elect to abandon his first locations, and then multiply the tracts?
By the 8th article of the Florida treaty no grants made after
the 24th of January, 1818, were valid; nor could a survey be
valid on lands other than those authorized by the grant: still, the
power to survey in conformity to the concession existed up to the
change of flags.
That Spain had the- power to make grants, founded oi"' any

232

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. The Heirs of Clarke and Atkinson.]

consideration, and subject to any restrictions within her discretion, is a settled question. If the act was binding on that government, sb it is on this; as the successor of Spain. All the grants
of lands, made by the lawful authorities of the King, of Spain,
before the 24th of.January, 1818, were by the treaty ratified and
confirmed to the owners of the lands. Such is the construction
given to the eighth article by this Court in Arredondo's Case, 6 Peters, 706, and in Pdrcheman's Case, 7 Peters, 51 ; that is, imperfect.
titles were equally binding on this government after the cession,
as they had been on the Spanish government before. The grant
to Atkinson was for the lands he mentioned, or for any other
lands that were vacant; and the surveyor-general was especially
directed to lay them off in either way; the grant giving himan
unrestricted discretion over the entire vacant lands of the province, to satisfy the highly meritorious claim of the petitioner: for
however doubtful the merits of. many claims may have been,, as
presented to us, of the justice of this there can be no question;
it had in it peculiar equities, and therefore the party had conceded
to him peculiar privileges in selecting the lands. The official, and
well-defined duties-of the surveyor-general, are set forth in Hanson's Case; and need not be repeated. He was acting for the
government when making the survey, and bound to .protect the
public domain, within'the restrictions imposed by the governdr's
decree; he did not exceed the decree by going to other places
than those pointed out in the petition; nd therefore did not exceed his autthority, unless it was in making more surveys than two.
This point was settled in Sibbald's Case, 10 Peters, 321. His
was a mill grant for five miles square, on Trout creek; and in'the
event that situation would not permit the quantity of sixteen thousand acres; he asked, and had granted to him an equivalent of the
deficiency, not at a particular place, but generally. In 1819; a
tract of ten thousand acres was surveyed at Trout creek. In
February3 1820, another of four thousand acres was surveyed
thirty miles off at Turnbull's swamp-and the remaining two
thousand acres at Bowleg's. hammock, somLe thirty miles in a different direction. It was proved that no more than ten thousand
acres could be had at Trout creek, because of interfering elder
claims, and injury to third persons. The Court adjudged, in
-effect, that the equivalent referred to quantity rather than form

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

233

[The United States v. The Heirs of Clarke and Atkinson.]

of survey; and that the six thousand acres deficient, could be
surveyed on any vacant lands in the province, and in several
surveys; the only. authority for doing so, was that an equivalent
was decreed in.case of deficiency. The two last surveys were
confirmed, on the precise ground that, as to the equivalent, the
party was not restricted to any particular spot, nor to any form or
number of surveys; and therefore might elect any vacant lands,
and at different places.
Sibbald's was a weaker case than, the present, the words of
the grant being less explicit: the principles presented being precisely the same in both, we cannot reverse the decree below,
without overruling the former decisiol--to which the Court below
was bound to conform. We ther6fore order the decree to be
affirmed.

