JANUARY TERN, 1842.

MK N . ", PLAnriprs .IN
ERROR, V. WILLIAM' E. PHILLIPS,. AND. 'HENRY -BELL, TRADING'

JAMEs S. BRADB.R, A~n- HUGH .i.
UNPER THE FIRM OF WILIA

PHILLIPS 'A.rD COMPANY, AND

RODAH HORTON, AND NATHANIEL -TERir, DEpEIzDANTS If
ERROR.
B. and M'KIZ-erchwins at New Orleans, were the factors of P. and Codmpany of
Huptsvills, Alabama, anal made advances on cotton shipped to them, In August,
1834, P. and Company were indebted to B. and WMK.
one thousand three hundred,
and fifteen dollars; and Williams, the agent of B. and M'K., agreed with P and
Company, that'B. and M'K. would advance eight thodsand dollas on bills to be
drawn betweeft the 20th of April, and the 31stof July, 1-835, by P. and Company, and
any tio of six persons named, among whom were Horton and Terry, two of the
defendants in this spit. Before July 31st, 1835, se.Ira shipments of dotton were
made to B. and M'K. by P. aird Company, and several bills were .drawn by themjointly with Hoiton snd Terry, and by others without-them; all of which were
iccepted by B. and M'K..These bills, with the advances before mad6, amountQd to
twentyninpe thousand seven hundred add ninety-five dollars, and the proceeds of
the shipments were'twenty-two thotsand-four, hundred and sixty dollars. B. and
M'K. applied thege proceeds to the liquidation of the bills drawn 11y P. and Company, to the'etelusion of those drawn by them jointly with Hprton ind Terry; and,
as th'ese blls .eiceeded the proceeds of the cotton, they brought an action on a bill
drawn June 4th, -1835, "byP. and Company, and Horton and Terry,-amounting to
three thousand dollar. The Circuit Court instructed'the jury, that if they believed
fom.the evidence, that at the maturity of the bill, B. and M'K. had stfficient funds
of P. and Company to pay the bill, and Horton, and Terry to be accommodation
drawers, and securities only, then, in.the absence of any instructions from P. and
Company in regard tb the application of the funds, B. and M'K. were bound to apply
them to pay the bill, and could not hold them to pay a bill draws on them by P.
and Company only, which had been accepted by them, and was not then due. Held,
that the instructions of the Circuit Court were correct.
When a factor makes advances, or incurs liability on a consignment of goods, if there
be Lo special agreement, he may sell the property in the exercise of a sound discretion, according to general usage, and reimburse himself out of the proceeds of the
sale, and the consignor has no right to interfere. The lien of the factor for advances
and liabilities incurred, extends not only to the property consigned, but, when sold,
to the proceeds in the hands of the vendee, and the securities therefor in the hapds
of the factor.
The acceptors of the bill of exchange having, when the bill became due, funds of the
drawers in their hands suffi~ient to pay the same, the liability of the accommodation
drawers was as compleiely discharged, on the payment of the bill, as that of the
principals.

VOL. XVL-L

16

122

SUPREME COURT; t842.
[Brander and M'Kenna v. Phillips and Company.]

IN error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of South Alabama.
The case, as stated 11 the opinion of the Court, was as follows:
"Brander and M'Kenna, in 1839, 1834,1835, were commission
merchants at New Orleans, and acted as factors and agents for William E.Phillips and Company, of Huntsville, Alabamain the sale
of cotton, and made advances thereon. On all sales they were to
receive two and a half per cent. for commission, and the same
amount for advances.
In August, 1834, Phillips and Company were indebted to
Brander and M'Kerma, in the sum of one thousand three humdred and fifteen dollars and fifty-seven cents, for advances. On
the 15th of the same month, John Williams, agent for Brander
and M'Kenna, agreed to advance Phillips and Company t.ie stun
of eight thousand -dollars on bills, to be drawn 'between the 20th
of April, and the 31st July, 1835, by them, and dny two of six
persons named; among whom were, R. Horton, and- N. Terry,
two of the defendants in error.,
Between the 15th of August, 1834, and the 31st of July, 1835,
several shipments of cotton were made to the plaintiffs by the
defendants ;and several bills- were drawn by them, some jointly
with Horton and Terry, and others without them; all of which
were accepted by the plaintiffs.
These bills, including the advances -previouslymade, amounted
to the sum of iwqnty-nine thousand seven hundred and*ninetyfive dollars and sixty-five cents. The procneds of the shipments
of cotton to meet these advances, amounted to the sum of twentytwo thousand four hundred and sixty dollars and forty-three cents.
.Th6 plaintiffs applied the proceeds of the cotton to the liquidao'nof the bills drawn by Phillips and Company, to the exclusion
of tLwe drawn by them jointly with Horton and Terry; and as
the ac-.etances exceeded the proceeds of the cotton, this action
was commenced on a bill due-4th June, 1835, for three thousand
dollars drawn by the defendants.
On the trial, the Court instructed the jury that, if they believed
fiom the evidence that, at the maturity of this bill, Brander and
M'Kenna had sufficient funds of Phillips and Company in their
hands to pay it, and believed Horton and Terry to be accommo-

JANUARY TERM, j$42.

US

fBrander and M'Kenr a Pvi lp and C6ipany.]
dation drawers aud.'secpriies only, and knew this at the maturity
of. this bill, then, in the absence "f any instructions from Phillips
,and Company, in regard to the application of the funds, ]Brander
and MfKenna were bound to apply them to. pay t
bil, and
coIld not hold them to meet the payment of a bill drawn on them
by Phillips afiid Company, which had been accepted, but was not
then due. And that.if, when. this bill 'became duo, the funds of
Phillips and.Company.ir, the hands of the acceptors were sufficient to pay it, the bill was extimguished, and rec6very could notbe had on it.

To this instruction an exception was taken. and the-jurylhaving given a verdict for the defendants, the plaintiffs prosecuted
this writ of error.
The case vas argued -by Mr. Gilpin, for the'plaigtiffs in error;
and by Mr. Crittenden, forithe defendants.
Mr. Gilpin, for the plaintiffs in error.
The relation of Brznder and M'Kenna with William 'F.'Phil-'
lips and Company was strictly that of principals ind agents, or,
factors., The former, had no interest of their owr in th -cotton
forwarded. In performing this agency, the plaintiffs acted under
two contracts, the nature ?and mutual obligations of which were
well defined and understood.. Their general conttact as agents
arosei by legal implication, from the course of trade which
had existed between them and Phillips and Company for a'
series of years. They received, their cotton, sold it,'made payments and advances, and were allowed a certain commission.
Their special contract; though relating to the same kind of business; was yet entered into for the particillar benefit of Phillips
and Company, and on particular tergns. The object was to induce advances from Brander aid'M'Kenna, to the amount of
eight thousand dollars, on a personal guaranty of 'certain individuals, independently of any security by shipmenfs of cotton. To
the extent of the probable security which such shipments would
afford, they *ere already Willing 0o make. advances.." This
contractO, therefore) could have no object but to secure .them, if
the whole' proceeds of the cotton should not, in the end, cover
the whole amount of the advances.

'SUPREME COURT.
[Brandet and M'Kenna v. Phillips and Company.]

Brander and M'Kenna, thus being agents and factors, possessed, for their security, all the means which the law gives to
persons in that relation; to these means they had a right to resort,
to obtain paymnt of all that was due to them, either under the
general or the special contract.
Now what, under'such circumstances, are an agent's rights?
In the first place, he has a lien on the whole property, to cover
his whole liability; as well debts that he has actually paid, as
debts for which he is bound to provide. On the 1st June, 1835,
the cotton on hand was not more subject to be appropriated to
the liquidation of a -bill of William E. Phillips and Company,
which Brander and M'Kenna had then actually paid, than of one
not yet due, which they had accepted.- No principle is better
settled than this, that an agent cannot be required to apply property in his hands to a debt due, if he has also incurred a future
liability. The property may be held by him for the latter, as
well as for the former. If not, what agent would ever make
advances? When a principal sends forward goods to his factor,
even though sufficient to meet advances then actually made, they
are not more applicable to those advances, than to liabilities then
incurred, but not actually due. This has been established by a
current .of authorities. Huber. Prmlect. lib. 20, t. B. -sec. 1, 3;
Ex parte Deeze, 1 Atkyns, 229; Godin v. London Assurance
Company, 1 Burr. 494; Kirkman v. Shawcross, 6 Durnford and
East, 16; Walker v. Brick, 6 Durnford 'and East, 262; Stevens v.
Robins, 12 Mass. 180; Jarvis v. Rogers, 15 Mass. 414; Allen v.
Maguire, 15 Mass. 490; Jolly v. Blanchard, 1 Wash. C. C. R. 255.
If the property in the hands of the factor was subject to be
applied by him. to the latest of.his liabilities as well as to the
earliest, is there a different rule in regard to the proceeds of that
property? There' is certainl r no reason why there should be.
If it be right for the factor to have security upon the one, it is
equally proper that he should have it upon the other. It is even
more proper, because the object of the consignment is not merely
to obtain advances, but also to h~ive sales made at any time when
the state of the market should render it expedient. If the factor's
security were lessened by a sale; if the proceeds, derived from
the sale were held by him with a lien less effective for his security than the unsold property, sales ivould never be made till

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

125

[Brander and M'Kenna v. Phillips and Company.]

the whole consignment was received. From the evidence in this
case it is apparent that Brander and M'Kenna were to sell the
cotton "at their discretion;" their rights were not to be altered
by the sale'; the price they received for the cotton remained in
their hands, exactly as if it had been the cotton itself. Their
lien on the one did not differ from their lien on the other. Ex
parte Dumas, 2 Vesey, sen. 585; Kruger v. Wilcox, 1 Ambler,
252; Foxcroft v. Devonshire, 2 Burr. 936; Drinkwater v. Goodin,
1 Cowp. 251 ; X1inloch v. Craig, 3 Durnford and East, 122, 786';
Atkinson v. Elliott, 7 Durnford and East, 376; Hammonds v.Bar-

clay, 2 East, 227; Mann v. Shiffner, 2 East, 529; Haille v. Smith,
1 Bos. and Pull. 563;.Houghton v. Matthews, 3 Bos. and Pull.
492; Cowell v. Simpson, 16 Ves. 280; Hudson v. Granger, 5
Barn. and Ald: 31; Colley v. Merrill, 6 Greenl, 50; Bradfordv.
Kimberley, 3 Johns. C. C. R. 434; Brown v. M'Graw, 14 Peters, 495.
If then Phillips and Company could not themselves have
directed the application of any portion of the cotton forwarded
by them, or of its proceeds, to any particular 'liability whichBrander and M'Kenna had incurred as their factors, the law will
not certainly direct such an application. It will only do so in
cases where a party might himself have done it. Brander and
M4'Kenna had the right, on the 4th of June, to appropriate the
money, which was then in their hands as the proceeds of the
cotton, to, any liability due or to become due, which they had
then incurred; Phillips and Company could not control the exercise jof that right; the Court therefore will not do so.
But, suppose- that 'the receipt by Brander and M'Kenna of
money derived from the sale of the cotton, in June, is to be considered as a payment to them; still, they never appropriated that
payment to the account arisingunder the special contracti-nor
were they bound so to appropriate it. The eviderice shows that
thej, kept -their 'account of the advancei to the amotint.of eight
th6usand .dollars under the special contract, separate and distinct
from their general contractq. in this separate account, they never
gave a credit for the amount of these sales; it wag rendered to
Phillips and-Company, and'cuch a credit never was claimed by'
them; finally, one 'of the partners of that firm admitted, that the
credit was properly applied to the general account, and although
L2

-126

SUPREME COUR T .
tBrander and M'Kena v.Pilip. and' Coxnpaly.],

this adtnission was made after the dissolution 'of tne partnership,
yet it- is not'the less competent evidence-of the fact. Wood v.
Braddick, 1 Taunt. 104; Lacy v. M'Neille, 4 Dbwl. and Ryl. 7.
Nor were they bound by law to apply it to the special account;
Phillips and Company having directed no application, it r6mained
with Brander and M'Kenna 'to make it to one or the other, at
their own option; " and especially might they so make it as to
provide for the debt which -a least secured. Manning v. Weston, 2 Vern. 606; Goddard v. Cox, 2 Strange, 1194; Bodenham
v. Purchas, 2 Barn. and Ad. 45; Peters -P.Anderson, 5 Taunt.
601; Bosanquet v. Wray, 6 Taunt. 598; Kirby v. Marlborough,
2 Maule and Selwyn, 22; Simson v. Ingham, 2 Barn. and Cres.
65: Brewer v. Knapp, 1 Pick. 337; Dedham Bank v. Chickering,
4 Pick. 340; Blackstone Bank v. Hill, 10 Pick. 133; -Hiltoti v.
Burley,2 New Hamp. Rep. 196 : Cremer v. Higginson, 1 Mason,
324; United States v. Wardwell, 5 Mason,'85; Bainbridge v.
Wilcocks, Bald. 538; Mayor of Alexandria v. Patten, 4 Cranch.
320 ; FIield v. Holland, 6 Cranch, 27.
Mr. Crittenden, for the defendants in error.
No agreement was made betwee? the plaintiffs in error and
William E. Phillips and" Company, that they should make advances on cotton to be shipped to them from Alabama. In 1834,
an-agreement was made that bills should be drawn to the amount
ofteight thousand dollars, to be also signed by certain persons, and
which Brander and M"Kenna agreed to accept. No particular
advance was'made on any one of these bills; but as a bill or bills
were drawn, cotton was to be shipped by William E Phillips
and Company, to furnish funds for payment. The contract of the
drawers was, to furnish funds for the payment, out of the proceeds of cottoon, to pay the bill or bills when due. The Circuit
Court of Alabama said, that if funds were so -provided, they
should be applied to pay the bills as they became due; and they
denied the right of the plaintiffs in error to hold funds in their
hands provided by the drawers of the bills for their payment, for
the purpose of paying bills which might become due subsequently; and by leaving the bills due unpaid, subject the endorsers
to liability. The jury have found that when the bill on which

TANUARY TERM, 1842.

-127

[Brmnder and M'Kenta v. Phi ip and Oompony.]
this suit was brought becme due, funds were in the hands of the
acceptors sufficient to pay fhem; and this is conclusive.
The bill on which this suit was instituted, was also signed'by
Horton and Terry, and-was payable in nine months,-according to
the contract with Williams, the agent of Brander and M'Kenna.
The fundq in their hands when the bill ecame due, should have
beer. applied to pay the bf1l, without specific or express instructions. The-obligation to make this application,:was implied by.
the circumstances. On-the deposit of the money in the hands of
another, particular orders for its application are not required.
Implied orders are equivalent. In this case, the application of
the funds to pay the first bill becoming due, ws ordered by the
bill itself.
There is another consideration in this ,ase -which the- Court
will notice. The quesion here is one in which sureties are interested. The endorsers of the bill are called upon to pay a bill,
for the payment of which ample funds were in the hands of the
acceptor when it became due; and it is asked to apply those funds
to debts becoming due afterwards, with which they had. no connection.
Can the drawers of the bill withhold the funds in their hands
until the final adjustment of accounts between them and the.
drawers? This would b most inequitable, and against the express terms of the acceptance. The acceptance on the part of the
drawees, was a contract to pay the. bill when it should become
due: The contract Qn the part of tha drawers, was to furnish funds
to enable them to pay it when due,. The contract of the latter
has been performed; and shall the contract of the former remain
unexecuted, to the injury of the other drawers, who had no other.
connection with the parties but upon the bill?
This court have said, in oier cases, that whenever there is an
account between parties and restsi the application of frindsIn fhe
bands of the party to whom money is due, is to. be made to the
period of the rests in the account. Outstanding items in the
account are not to operate to prevent such appropriations. Cited,
Bell v. Morrison, 1 Peters, 351.
The question in this case, is only on the instructions of the
Court; were they correct, if the facts were so found by the
jury?

128

SUPREME COURT.
£Drander and MKenna v.Phififp and Company.]

Mr. Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
'This is a case on error from the Circuit Court for the district
of South Alabama.
Brander and M'Kenna, in 1833, 1834, 1835, Were eommissiof
merchants at New Qrleans.; and acted as factors and bagents of
William E. Phillips and Company, of Huntsville, Alabama, in the
sale of cotton, and-made advances thereon; On all sales they
were to receive two and a half per cent; for commission, and the
same amount for advances.
In August,'1834, Phillips and Company were indebted to
Brander, and M'IKenna, in the sum of-one thousand three hundred and fifteen dollars and fifty-,even cents, for advances. On
the 15th of the same month. John Williams, agent for Brander
and M'Kenna, agreed to advance Phillips and Company the sum
of eight thousand dollars on bills, to be drawn between the 20th
of April, and the 31st of July, 18,5, by them, and any two of.
pix persons hamed; among whom were R. Horton, and N. Terry,
two:of the defendants in error.,
Between the 15th of August, 1834, and the 31st of July, 183 ,
several shipments of cotton were made to the -plaintiffs by the
defendants, and several .bills were drawn by-them, some-jointly
with Horton and Terry, and others without them; all of which
were accepted by the plaintiffs.
Thes6 bills, including the advances previously made, amounted
-to the sum of twenty-nine thousand seven hundred and ninetyfive dollars and sixt,-five cents, The proceeds of the shipments
of cotton to meet these advances, amounted to the sum of twentytwo thousand four hundred and sixty dollars and forty-three
cents.
'-The plaintiffs applied the proceeds of the cotton to the liquidation of the bills'drawn by Phillips and Compny, to the exclusion
of those drawn by them jointly with Horton and Terry; and as
me aceptances exceeded the proceeds of the cottoni, this action
was commenced on a bill due 4th June, 1835, for'three thousand
dollars
drawn -by the de feiidants.
On the
trial, the Court instructed the jury hat, if they,believed
from the evidence that, at the maturity of this -bill, Brander an&
iMKenna had sufcibnt funds of Phillips and CompAny in their
hands to-pay it, and believed Horton and Terry to be accommo-

JANUARY TERM, 1849-

129

[Brander and X'Kenna v. Phillips and Company.]

dation drawers and securities only, and knew this at the maturity
of this bill; then, in the absence of any instructions from Phillips
and Company, in regard to the application of the funds, Brander
and MIKenna were bound to apply them to pay this bill, and
could not hold them to meet the paymeni of the bill drawn on
them by Phillips and Company, which had been. accepted, but
was not then due.. And that if, when this bill'bedame due, the
funds of. Phillips and Company, in the hands of the acceptors,
were sufficient to pay it1 the bill was extinguisxed, and recovery
couldnot be had on it.
To this instruction an. exception was taken, and the .plaintia.
in error contend, that they had a right to hold "the cotton and its
proceeds to -meet all outstanding liabilities, which they had incurred on account of Phillips and Company; and that they had
a right so to marshal the securities, in the absence of any exprew
'agreement on the subject, as to save themselves from loss.
Where a factor makes advances, or incurs liabilities on a consignment of goods, if there be no special agreement, he may sell
the property-in the -exercise of a sound discrelioi, according to
general'usage, and reimburse himself out of the proceeds of the
sale; ant the consignor has no right to interfere. The lien of a
factor for advances and liabilities incurred, extends not only- to
the property consigned, but, when sold, to the proceeds of the sale
in'the hands of the vendee, and the securities therefor in. the
hands of the factor. Drinkwater v. Goodwin, Cowp. 2"51 Haughton v. Matthews, 3 Bos. & Pull. 489; Brown v. M'Gran, 14 Peters,
495; Story on Agency, 380.
But the case under consideration does not turn upon this principle. The liabilities of the plaintiffs exceeded the-proceeds of
the property consigned: and the question to* be answeredlis,
whether they can claim a reimbursement.from Horton and Terry,
who were bound jointly with Phillips and Company, in certain
bills amounting to eight thousand dollars. Other bills to a much
larger amount, drawn by Phillips and Company, without security,
were acL,3pted by the plaintiffs, several of which, were not due,
when the bill in controversy became payable: and the instruction of the Circuit Court to the jury was, if at that time the
plaintiffs had in their hands funds of Phillips. and Comijany,
of a sufficient amount to pay this bill, and they knew that Horton

ISO

SUPREME COURT.
[Brander and M'Kenna v. PhMips and Company.]

and Terry.were accommodation drawers, they were bound to
pay it.
Whenrthe.plauntiffs accepte? this and the other bills, were they
not aware oftheir respective amounts and the times they became
due? 'And were theynot'bound to take up the bills at maturity?
Of this there can beno doubt.. Tls_ bills .drawn subsequently to
"-the one under consideration, amounted to fifteen thousand dollars,
all of which were accepted by the ploifitiffs. 'Were these acceptances made, to any extent, on the credit of Horton and Terry?
This bas not been contended. On what ground then can this
action be -sustained?
The application of payments by -the
creditor, where no direction is given by the debtor, has no relation to the present case.
Had the bills become payanle at the same tine, on acceptances
made on the same day, the plaintiffs might have -insi ted on
applying jhe 'funds in their hands to the payment of the notes
without securities. But this would have been a very different
.case from the out now before us. After having accepted the bill
under consideration, payable at a time stated, the plaintiffs accepted other bills, payable at a more renote period. Now, the
contractby the acceptors was, that they would pay these bills as
they respectively became due. And this they were bound to do,
so long as the funds of the consignors in their hands remained
unexhabsted. A' bffl became extinguished so soon as it was paid
by the plaintiff&, with the funds of Phillips and Company., And
this principle applies as strongly to those bills signed by the, ac*commodation drawers, as to others.
I
Could the plaintiffs lay a foundation for a recovery.agawist
Phillips and Cdmpany;by showing payment of a bill drawn by
them, out of their ow.n funds? . This would not be pretended.
And yet -this. is the pinciple contended for in the present case.
The liabflity of the accommodation drawers was as completely
discharged, on the payment of the bill in question, as that of the
,principals.
The relation of factors which the plaintiffs boreto Phillips and
Company, gave them no power to vary their acceptances. The
cotton consigned was to meet the payments of the bills as they
became due. This was known to Horton and Terry;.and it may
well be supposed that their-liaility was incurred in virtue of this

,JANUARY TERM, 1842.

131.

[Brander and M'Kerma v. Philips nd Company.]

arrangement. But the plaintiffs, by. appropriating .the proceeds
of the ,cotton to the payment of future liabilities, have violated
their conttact, endeavoured to defeat the just reliance of the
sureties, and charge them with the payment pf the bills which,
they.guarantied. This the plaintiffs cannot do. It would be a
great hardship,. f not a ,fraud -on the sureties. No liencanbe
regarded or enforced under such circumstances. The lien'of a
factor depends upon: legal prieiples, foundedon equitab4le considerations, ana.can be. held valid on no 6ther grounds.'
We think that the instruction of the Circuit-Court 7as correct;
and, ihe judgment is, therefoie, affirmed.
This cause~came .on to be'he.ard on the transcript.of the rec6id
from the Circuit Court of the United States, '-or the southern" district of Alabama, and 'was argued by counsel. -On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered'and adjudged-b this.Court,*tha:t
the judgment of. the -said Circuit Court in ihis cause be, and the
same.is hereby,.affrmed, with- costs.

