JANUARY TERM,- 1842.

ELEAZER CARVER, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JosErn
AND OTHLtS, DEFENDANTS

A.

HYDE

IN ERR.OR.

Action for damages for a violation of a patent for an improvement on the cotton gin.
The charge of the Circuit Court of Massachusetts upon the facts in the case, was in
favour of the defendants; and the judgment in favour of the defendants on the vet

dict of the jury was held to be correct.

ON a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United States,
for the district of Massachusetts.
The plaintiff in error instituted a suit for the recovery of damages for the infringement of his patent for an improvement in
the use of cotton gins. The Circuit Court, on the verdict of the
jury, gave a judgment for the defendants. A bill of exceptions
having been tendered by the ph-intiff to the charge of the Court,
on the facts, in favour of the defendant, given by the Court. The
plahitiff prosecuted this writ of error.
The case was submitted to the Court, on printed arguments, by
-Dexter, for the plaintiff in error; and by Messrs. Fletcher and
Phillips, for the defendants.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case is brought here by writ of error, directed to the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Massachusetts.
It is an action by the plaintiff in error against the defendants, to
recover damages for the infringement of a patent right, obtained
by the plaintiff on the 16th of November, 1839. The patent'is
in the usual form, &ndtje questions before; us depend upon the
construction of the specification, which is ii the following words,
- "1Be it known, that I, Eleazer 'Carver, of Bridgewater, in the
county of Plymouth, and state of Massachusetts, have invented
a certain improvement i~i the manner of forming the ribs of sawgins, for the ginning of cotton ;-and I do hereby declare that the
following is a full and exact description thereof.
"In the cotton-gin, as heretofore known and used, the fibres
of the cotton are drawn by the teeth of circular saws, through
65

514

SUPREME COURT.
[Cauver v. Hyde et aL.]

a grating formed of a number of 'parallel bars, or ribs, having
spaces between them sufficient to allow the saws to pass, carrying the fibres of the cotton with them, (which are then brushed
off by a revolving brush,) but not wide enough to let the seeds,
and other foreign substances, pass through. Above the saws the
ribs come in close contract, thus forming a shoulder at the top
of the space between them. Variouq forms have been given to
the .bars or ribs; with a view to procure a free passage of the
"cotton ; but'the cotton-gin, as heretofore made, has been always
subject to the inconvenience of the grate becoming choked by
hard masses of cotton and motes, or false seeds, collecting in the
upper part of the spaces b~tween the ribs, and impeding the action of the saws, and also preventing the mass of cotton which
is drawn by the saws up to the top of the spaces, but not drawn
through them, from, rolling back freely, so as to pass again over
the saws, as it should do.
"Myr improvemen, which I am about to describe, is intended
to obviate these difficulties; and it consists in giving a new form
to the ribs composing the grate. Instead'of making the ribs -of
a bar bf iron of equal thickness throughout, so that the upper
and. under surfaces shall be parallel, I so form the rib, that at
the part where the saws pass through, carrying the cotton with
them, the space, or depth between the ipper and outer surface,
and the lower, or inner surface, shall be greater than the thickness of the rib in other parts has heretofore been, or needs to be,
and so great as to be equal to the length of the fibre of the cotton
to be ginned,'so that the fibre shall be kept extended between the
ribs for about its full length, while it is drawn through them by
the saws. This mill, of course, requires, either that the rib should
be as thick at that part as the length of the fibre, or that the rib
should be forked, or divided, about that part, so that the upper,
or outer surface, and the under, or inner surface, shall diverge to
that distance of .each other, instead of being parallel as formerly,
when the rib was made of one bar of uniform thickness. This
.under, or inner surface, then takes a new direction upwards, and
slopes towards the upper, or outer surface, until the two surfaces
meet above the periphery of the saw. This last described part
of the under surface 'is fastened against the framework of the
gin. The operation of this improvement is, that those fibres of

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

B1

[Carver v. Hyde et aL]

the cotton which are so firmly caught by the teeth of the saws as
to be disengaged from the mass .of the cotton to be ginned, are
drawn out to their full length, and pass clear through the grate,
and are then brushed off by the revolving brush, while the fibres
that are drawn into the grate, but not caught by the teeth of the
saws firmly enough to be carried quite through, are disengagedyand pass up to where the under surfatce meets the upper surface,.
above the saws, and finding no obstruction there, pass back out,
of the grate without choking it, and roll down again with the
mass of unginned cotton, and are caught below by the saws, and
carried up again, and so on until all the fibres are drawn
through."
The specification then proceeds to -describe the invention more
particularly, by referring to and explaining the drawings annexed,
to it, showing the advantages of his improvement, the manner
of arranging the ribs in the gin, and the mode of inserting and
fastening them in the framework.- This description could not be
comprehended without an exact drawing; nor is it necessary, "in
order to understand. the questions of law in dispute between the
parties. It is therefore omitted: After giving this description,
the specification states the improvement, of which the patentee
claims to be the inventor, as follows.
"Having thus described my improved rib and its advantages,
I now claim, as my invention, and desire to secure; by letters
patent, the increasing the depth, or space, between the upper, or
outer surface of the rib, and the lower, or inner surface of it, at
the part where the cotton is drawn through the grate, so that it
shall be equal to the length of the fibre of the cotton to be gihned,
(whether this be done by making the ribs thicker at that part, or.
by a fork, or division of the rib, or by an other variation of thb
particular form;) .and I also claim,as part of the said improvement, the sloping up of the lower, or inner surface of the rib, so
as to meet the upper, or outer surface above -the saws, leaving,
when the rib is inserted into the frame, no break or shoulder -between the two surfaces, but'a smooth and uninterrupted passage
upwards between: the ribs, as'above described."
At the'trial in the Circuit Court, the *plaintiff in error, -after
having produced his patent with the schedule annexed to it,
offered iii evidence, by the testimony of witnesses skilled in the

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver v. Hyde et al.]

art, that the rib described in the plaintiff's specification was a
new and useful improvement; that the fastening of the rib to the
framework in the manner therein stated had nothing to do with
the ginning, but was only necessary to keep the rib firm; that
the rib of the defendants was substantially in principle like that
of the plaintiff, and operated in the same manner, and produced
the same effect; and that, in their opinion, it differed from the
plaintifs rib only by taking away a part which was wholly immaterial in the operation of ginning.
The defendants then produced witnesses skilled in the art, who
testified that the ribs of the defendants did not substantially operate in the same manner with the plaintiff's, but were different
in form and principle, and proceeded to state the particulars in
which they differed; and testified that the defendants' ribs were
entirely detached from the breast band,.and stood out in front of
it? like the bar of the "Edenton grate," which was known and in
use long before the plaintiff's; and that the front and back surfaces of the defendants' ribs did not slope and meet at the upper
end above the saws as the plaintiff described his to do, and was
not shaped as the plaintiff's was exhibited and described in his
drawings, specification, and claim.
"Whereupon the defendants' counsel insisted that the ribs of
the defendant, were, according tQ the whole evidence, substantially
different from those described and claimed by the plaintiff, not
only because, as the counsel alleged, it appeared by the whole of
said evidence, that in the defendants' said ribs, no part of the
under surface sloped upwards, and met the upper surface above
the periphery of the saw, and was there fastened against the
framework of the gin; but, also, in the other particulars above
described.
"But the plaintiff's counsel insisted that said ribs were substantially alike, in all respects; and that in the rib of the defendants' the 'un'der surface did, according to said evidence, in fact,
slope upwards, and meet the upper surface above the periphery
of the saw, but that it was not necessary to the plaintiff's invention, as described and claimed in his said specification; nor was
it essential to the said invention, in fact, that the under surface
of the rib should be fastened against the framework of the gin,
where'the two surfaces-meet, abovie thu periphery of the saw.

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

517

[Carver v. Hyde At al.

"And the presiding judge who sat at the trial aforesaid, did then
and there declare and deliver his opinion to the jury aforesaid,
as follows, viz., That to entitle the plaintiff to maintain the action
ajid issue aforesaid, on his part, it was necessary for the jury to
be satisfied that the defendants had substantially violated and infringed the patent right of the plaintiff, as set forth and descrbed
in his patent. "That if the defendants used only such part of the
said patented improvement as was known and used before his
supposed invention, it -was no violation or infringement thereof;
that the improvement of the plaintiff, as specified and summed
by him, ym in the following terms, viz.:
"I now claim as my invention, and desire to secure, by letters
patent, the increasing the depth or space between the upper or
outer surface of the rib, an4 the lower or inner surface of it, at
the part where the cotton is drawn through the grate, so that
it shall be equal to the length of the ibre of the cotton to be
ginned,, (whether -this be done by making the ribs thicker at ihat
part, or by a fork or division of the rib5 or by any other varia-.
ion of the particular form;) and I also claim as part of the
same improvement, the sloping up of the lower or inner surface of the rib, so as to meet the upper or outer surface above
the saws, leaving, when the rib is inserted into the- frame, no
break or shoulder between the t~p surfaces, but a smooth and
uninterrupted passage upwards between the ribs, as above
described."
That the true construction and interpretation of the specification and summing is, that it claims and states, as a substantial
part of the improvement, not only the increasing the depth or
space 'between the upper or outer surface of the rib, and the
lower or inner surface thereof, at the part where the cotton is
drawn through the grate, so that it shall be equal to the length of
the fibre of the cotton to be ginned, in the manner above stated,
but it also claims and states as a substantial part of the same improvement, the sloping up of the lower and inner surfaceof the
rib, so as to meet the upper or outer surface above the saws,
leaving when the rib is inserted in the framework, no break or
shoulder between the two surfaces, but a smooth and uninterrupted passage upwards between the ribs, as described in the
same specification; and that thereby the fixing or fastening of
VOL. XVI.-2 X

518

SUPREME COURT.
Idarver v.Hyde etaL)

the ribs against the framewors in the manner stated in the specification,. is made by th& patentee a substantia. part of the said
improvement; so that if the defendants do not fix or fasten the
ribs.of their machine'against'the framework in the manner stated
in the specification, either at all or substantially in the same
manner as, the patentee, or fix or fasten it only in a manner
known and. used before the plaintiff's supposed invention, the
defenda6ts are not guilty of any violation or infringement of the
plaintiff's patent, as stated in the declaration; and with this
declaration, the said presiding judge left the said cause to the
jury, who thereupon then and there returned a verdict for the'
defendants.
It wilt be seen by this statement that the question. of law presented by the exception is a very narrow one, and depends
altogether on the construction of the specification. And it is
difficult to make -it understood, without the aid of the drawing or
model.,
The plaintiff considers the invention secured by the patent to
consist of the rib only-and of that part of the rib which by its
form increases the depth between its upper or outer surface, and
the lower or inner one, at the place where the cotton is drawn
through the grate. He insists that the sloping up of the rib, so
as to meet the upper or outer surface of the saw-as well as the
manner of fastening it againsi the- framework of the gin, as
mentioned. in his specilc~ition, are not substantial or essential
parts of his invention.
The question is, whether the" are claimed as such by his
patent. The Circuit Court held hat they were so claimed; and
we think the opinion was clearly right. They are, expressly
stated by the patentee to be a part of the improvenqent for which
he asks a patent, and he describes particularly the smooth and
uninterrupted passage upward between the ribs, leaving no break
or shoulder between the two surfaces, when the ribs were inserted in the frame, as one of the advantages resulting from
his improvement. And this smooth and uninterrupted surface
must necessarily depend not merely on the form of the rib,
but also in the manlier in which it is.connected with the framework.

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

519

[Carver v. Hyde et a.]
The rib in question isnot an invention to be used by itself, but
an improvement upon that portion of the cotton gin; and is to be
used in connection with other parts of a machine which has been
publicly known and used a long time. There must, therefore,
be some mode of fastening an& connecting it with the other machinery; and the effect pioduced by the rib necessarily depends
in a great degree upon the mode in which it is arranged and connected with the saw, and the other parts of the machine. .He
specifies the mode and claims it as part of his invention. According to his statement his impzovement consisted in the form of the
rib which'increased the depth between the upper and lower surface, at the part where the cotton is drawn through the grate, in
the sloping up so as to meet the upper or outer surface above the
saws, and in the smooth and uninterrupted passage produced by
the manner in which it was connected with -the frame. These
three things he represents as constituting his improvement, and
tley are all combined together in his specification and claim,
making together one invention to be used in conection with the
other and old machinery of the cotton gin. And the drawing
which accompanies his patent shows the manner in which the rib
is sloped and arranged with the saw and anhexed to the framework, in order to attain the object of the invention.
"Now the end to be accomplished" is .not th6
subject of a patent.
The invention consists in the new and useful means of obtaining
it. And if the defendant had by a rib of a substantially different
form, or differently arranged with the saw, or not fastened at all
to the frame, made an improvement which more effectually secured the oltject intended to be accomplished by.the plaintiff's
patent, it would be difficult to maintain that it could not be lawfully used; b6cause it produced the same result with the plaintiff's invention.
The usefulness of the rib depends altogether, as described in
the specification, upon the manner of its connection with the
periphery of the saw, and with the framework. And if, therefore, as waq said by the Circuit Court, the rib made by the
defendant was not fastened at all to the framework, or in a
manner substantially different from the plaintiff's, or in a manner
,rnown and used befoxe the plaintiff's invention, it was no in-

520

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver v. Hyde et aLl

fringement, of his atent. And whether the manner was the
same in suhstance or not, was a question of fact for the jury,
and as they found fox the defendant, we must assume that it was
substantiallRy different.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is thereforeaffirmed.

