JANUARY TERM, 1842.

DANIEL DOBBINS, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. THE COMIISSIONERS
OF ERIE COUNTY, DEFENDANTS

IN ERROR.

A captain of the United States revenue cutter, on the 13rie station in. Pennsylvania,
was rated and assessed for county taxes, as an officer of the United States, for his
office. Held, that he was not liable to be rated and assessed for his office under the
United States, for c-intv rates and levies.
The question presented in the case before the Courts of Pennsylvania, was whether the
office of captain of the revenue cutter, of the United States was liable to be assessed for taxes, under the laws of Pennsylvania. The validity of the laws of Pennsylvania imposing such taxes, was in question in the case, on the ground that the
"laws'were repugnant to the Constitution and laws of the United States; and the
Court decided in favour of the validity of the law. The Supreme Court of the United
States has juiisdiction on a writ of error in such a case,
Taxation is a sacred right, essential to the existence of government; an incident of
sovereignty. The right of legislation is co-extensive' with the incident, to attach it
upon all persons and property within the jurisdiction of a states But in our system,
there are limitations upon that right. There is a concurrent right of legislation in
the states, and the United States, except as both are restrained by the Constitution
of the United States. Both are restrained by express prohibitions in the Constitution; and the states, by such as are reciprocally implied, when the exercise of the
right by a state conflicts with the perfect execution of another sovereign power delegated to the United States. That occurs when taxation by a state acts upon the
instruments, and emoluments, and persons which the United States may use and
employ as necessary and proper means to execute their sovereign power. The
government of the United States is supreme within its sphere of action. The means
necessary and proper to carry into effect the powers in the Constitution are in Congress.
The compensation of an officer of the United States is fixed by a law made by Congress. It is in its exclusive discretion to declare what shall be given. It exercises
the discretion, and fixes the amount; and confers upon the officer the right to receive
it when it has been earned. Any law of a state imposing a tax upon the office.
diminishing the recompense, is in conflict with the laiv of the United States which
secures the allowance to the officer.

IN -error to the Supreme Court ot Pennsylvania.
In the Court of Common Pleas of Erie county, the plaintiff in
error inst:tuted 'an action against the commissioners of Erie
county, the purpose of which was to have a decision on the right
asserted by the commissioners of the county to assess and collect
taxes on the office of the plaintiff,. a citizen, and residing in

436

SUPREME COURT.
[Dobbins v. The Commissioners of Erie Counti.]

Erie county, Pennsylvania, a captain lf the United States revenue
cutter.
.,,The following case was stated and submitted to the Court;
either party to have the right to prosecute a writ of error.
The plaintiff is and has been for the last eight years an offic'er
of the United States, to wit, captain of the United States revenue
cutter service; and ever since his appointment has been in service
in commandof the United States revenue cutter Erie, on the Erie
station. He has been rated and assessed with county taxes for
the last three years, to wit, 1835, 1836, and 1837, as such officer
of the United States, far his bffice, as such, valued at five hundred
dollars; which taxes sorated and assessed and paid by the plaintiff, amount to the sum of ten dollars'and seventy-five cents.
'The question submitted to the Court is, whether the plaintiff is
liable to be rated abd assessed for hia office under the ,United
States for-county rates and levies; if he is, then judgment to be
entered for the defendants; if'not, then judgment to be entered for
the plaintiff for the sum of ten dollars and seventy-five cents."
The Court of Common Pleas gave judgment for the plaintiff,
and the case was removed to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania;
in which Court the judgment was reversed, and a judgment was
entered for the commis8ioners of Erie county. The plaintiff,
Danidl Dobbins, prosecuted this writ bferror.
The case, was submitted to the Court by Mr. Galbraith for the
plaintiff, and by.Mr. Penrose for the defendants, on printed arguments.
Mr. Galbraith, for the plaiAtiff in error.
The pfaintiff was rated and 'assessed, under the construction,
given to the state law by the county officers, with a tax upon his
office, created under a law of the United States. The act of Congress entitled "4An act tQ regulate the collection of duties on imports and tonnage, ' passed Mdrch 2d, 1799, commencing at page
136 of the third volume, United States Laws, in its ninety-seventh
section, empowers the -President of the United States to cause
revenue cutters to be built. The ninety-eighth section provides,
"That there shall be to each of-the said revenue cutters, one capitain or master, and not more than three lieutenants or mates," &c.

JANUARY TERM,

1842.

437

[Dobbins v. The Commissioners of Erie County.]

Its ninety-ninth section provides, "That the offiQers of the said
revenue cutters shall be appointed by the President of the United
States, and shall respectively be deemed officers of the customs,"
&c., and prescribes theif duties. Another act of Congress, passed
the 2d March, 1799, same book, page 236, prescribes the compensation of the commissioned officers of the revenue cutters, including
the captains. The plaintiff, as stated and admitted in the case, was
a captain of the revenue cutter Erie, commissioned as prescribed
by the act of Congress; and for that office, was rated and assessed
under the state laws of the -state of Pennsylvania, which may be,
found in 2 Parke and Johnston's Digest, at page 543; and which
authorizes the assessment of a state *or county tax upon call
offices and posts of profit."' Does this mean "offices and posts
of profit" with which the state or state la-ws have nothing to do
in their creation? The Supreme Court of the state has decided in
this case that it does, in 7 Watts's Rep. 513.; and the question
here presented is, whether or not that decision be correct. The
Supreme Court of the state has decided in favour of -the validity
ofbthe state law, in the construction given to it by the financial'
officArs acting Under the authority of the state; and therefore its
decisibn i's ihe subject of examination and revision here, as.decided by this Court in Vreston et al. v. City Council of Charleston,
2 Peters, 440.

The Sfipreme Court of Pennsylvania did not touch the point
in question, or that presented in the case. No distinction is drawn
' between an office created by and under the state laws, and one
which is the creature of the laws of the national government. It
is simply decided that an office is the subject of the taxing powers
of the state officers, under the laws of the state; which is not diqputed, so far as relates to offices created by or controlled under
state legislation.' It is asked, if this office of captain of a revenue
cutter appointed and commissioned under the authority of the acts
of Congress, is not one of "the means employed by the government of the Union for the.execution of its powers ?" and if so, if
it is not brought within the principle of the case of. MI'Culloch v.
The State of Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316; 4 Cond. Rep. 466, 487;
and again reviewed in 9 Wheat. 738; 5 Cotud. Rep. 741? These
cases clearly establish the principle, that. the state sovereignty, the
202

438

SUPREME COURT.
[Dobbins v. The Commissioners of Erie County.]

state laws, and the acts of the state officers under its laws, can only
extend to such things as exist by its own authority, or are introduced by its permission; and cannot extend to, or operate upon,
an office created by the exclusive authority of the United States,
and under the control of the laws of the Union alone; and
which cannot be trammelled or interfered with by the state
authorities.
Mr. Penrose for the-defendants.
Captain Dobbins was a "taxable lierson,2Y a citizen of Erie
county, who enjoyed the privilege of a citizen, and the protection
of the state government. He was clearly, as such, liable to
taxation.
In determining the amount of the tax, the sovereign state had
a right to say, aibitrarily, that he>should pay so mucl, or, which
is more just, to ascertain his income, and, by rating that, fix a tax
proportioned to it. There is no doubt that the office or post
which he held fell within the descriptive terms of the statute,
terms to ascertain this "rate" of the tax'to be paid by the " taxable person,"--" all ;offices and posts of .profit" without qualification. -The office of President Judge of a judicial district is within
the act, notwithstanding the constitutional provision inregard to
the salary of -such officers. The Commissioners, &c. v. Chapman, 2 Rawle, 73.
Having inquired into the nature of the tax, and ascertained
that the office or post held by the plaintiff in error falls within
the descriptive terms of the statute, we come to the question. Is
this statute invalid on the ground of its being repugnant to the
Constitution or laws of the United States ?
On this point we stop to inquire what is this power of taxation
ir a state, its nature, and extent.
"It is an incident of sovereignty, and is coextensive with that
of which it is an incident." "It is called a sacred right." "It
is admitted to be essential to the very existence of government."
"It is so ample that it may be exercised on the objects to which
it is applicable, to the utmost extent to which the government
may choose to carry it." "There is no limit on the e:iercise of the

JANUARY TERM, i842.

439

[Dobbins v. The Commissioners of Erie County.]

right, no guard against the abuse of the power; but in the structure of the government, and the discretion of the representative
of the people." "It is not confined to the people and property
of the state; it may be exercised upon every object brought within
its jurisdiction." "The power of legislation, and consequently of
taxation, operates on all persons and property belonging to the
body politic." "It is an original principle which has its foundation
in society itself. It is granted by all, for the benefit of all." "However absolute the right of an individual may be, it is still in the nature of that right that it must bear a portion of the public burdens,
and that portion must be determined by the legislature." M'CI-'
loch v. The State of Maryland, 4 Wheat. 428; Providence Bank
v. Billings and Pittman, 4 Peters, 563; Biddle v. The Commonwealth, 13 Serg. and Rawle, 409; Brown v. The State of Mary-land, 12 Wheat. 419.
What are the limitations on this great prerogative power which
it is admitted resides in the states, and does this case fall within
any such limitation? These limitations are either express or
implied.
1. The express-limitation is found in the Constitution of the
United States. Sec. 10, art. 1, of that instrument. "No state
shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any imposts or duties
on imports or exports, except what may be absolutely necessary
for executing its inspection laws." And there is a like prohibition to laying a duty on tonnage.
It was wisely judged, that no other limitation than this was
necessary to secure the objects of government, and guard the
citizen from oppression. He is the common constituent of the
representative in the state, as well as the national government.
Besides, by reserving to the general government the exclusive
right of laying imposts br duties, Congress had an ample source
of revenue, obviously the least oppressive to the people. For
these imposts, though they be called in strictness an indirect tax,
are rather a voluntary retribution by such as chose to purchase
the importedarti6 le on which it is levied.
And although the power of direcF axation'is not taken froni,
or rather is given to the general government to be used in those
cases of, national emergency, when a patriotic pe6iple will bear

440

SUPREME COURT.
[Dobbis v. The Commissioners of Erie Co"nt.]

almbst any burden without a murmur, yet it is obvious, from
the fact that the states are excluded from laying imposts, that
this is the- great source from which it was initended; except under extraordliary ciucumstances, that the general government
should derive its revenue. And that the power of direct taxation,
.without any other limitation, should be left to the states, It is
their natural, their only resort.
The limited purposes and objects of the state governments,
immediately affecting the interests of the peopie will of course
make them submit with cheerfulness to a direct tbhx for the support of such government; which they would not so readily endure,
except inemergencies referred to, for the more onerous support
of the national government.
"The law of the state of Maryland, requiring animporter of
foreign goods by bale or package, to take out and pay fifty dollars for a license to sell his goods, fell within this prohibition, and
was' decided to be repugnant and unconstitutional. Brown v.
The State of Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419.
But even there it was held'that the words of this prohibition
"ought not to be pressed to- their utmost extent." And when
the importer has go acted on the thing iinported, that it has become mixed up with the mass of property in the country, it has
lost its distinctive character as an import, and is subject to
taxation. And it is upon this principle that ths lafv of the state
of Pennsylvania imposing a duty on retail dealers was ruled to
be. in accordance with the Constitution. Biddle v. The Commonwealth, 13 Serg. and Rawle, 409.
Analogous to it is the principle on which the case of The Commissioners v.Chapman, 3 Rawle, 73, was ruled. Ini that case,
the office of President Judge of a judicial district was decided to
be within the act, notwithstanding the constitutional provision in
regard to the salary of such officers. The opinion of the Courb
inthat case is respectfully referred to.
2. The implied limitations on the power of taxation.
It is acnitted that it was urged that, as the convention which
formed the Constitution had imposed ,an e.Vcress limitation, no
.9ther limitation could be established by intrence. And this
view was strongly fortified by tile -contemporaneous exposition of

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

441

[Dobbins v. The Commissioners of Erie County.]

the Federalist, the eminent authors of which asserted, "that the
right of taxation in the states is sacred and inviolable," "1with the
sole exceDtion of duties on imports and exports ;" that "they
retain the authority in the most absolute sense; and that an
attempt on the part of the national'government to abridge them
in the exercise of it, would be a violent aisumption of power,
unwarranted by any article or clause of the Constitution."
It may be conceded that it was pressing too far the argument
from this source, to contend for "1that construction of the Constitution that would place within the reach of th6 states those measures which the government might adopt for the execution of its
powers." But it is a strong argument to show the high character, and wide extent of this power of taxation, and excludes the
inference of any limitation upon it, which does not clearly fall
within the essential principle of preventing a control by the states
of such measures.
It was very apparent, that a like power of taxation in the
general government created no such inference. The tuthofity is
coequal.-Federalist. A power conferred upon Congress does
not, per se, exclude the states from the same power, unless it be
in its nature exclusive. 5 Wheat. 48. So the power of Congress
to levy taxes does not exclude the states from a similar power.
Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 201.
The great -principle of these implied limitations is, that the
states, in the exercise of the high prerogative power of taxation,
should not be permitted to reach and control those measures
necessary and proper for the execution of the powers vested by
the Constitution in the government of the United States. This is
the ruling principle of all the cases.
It being judicially ascertained that Congress possessed the
power to incorporate a bank of the United States. It was
constitutional because it was an instrument, and the means
employed by the government of the Union' for the execution
of its powers. The power to tax such instrument, and these
means, is the power to destroy; and therefore the one is repugnant
to the other. McCulloch v. State of Maryland, 4 Wheat. 428; Osburn v. United States Bank, 9 Wheat. 867. It was on this principle that it was ruled, that "ca tax imposed by a law of any state
56

442

SUPREME COURT..
[Dobbins v. The Commissioners of Erie County.]

of the United States, or under the authority of such a law on stock
issued for loans made to the United States, is unconstitutional."
The creation of the stock was a measure necessary and proper
for the execution of the power "to borrow money on the credit
of the United States." It was an instrument for the execution
of that power. Weston and others v. The City Council of
Charleston, 2 Peters, 449,465. So neither can a state tax any
other instrument employed by the government for the execution
of its powers. It cannot tax the mail. It cannot tax the mint.
It cannot tax patent rights. It cannot tax the judicial process.
But this implied limitation on this high prerogative power of
taxation is not pressed to extreme consequences, which would in
fact.destroy it; but stops with resistance of a direct repugnant
enactment of the state; it is not carried one inch beyond this.
Hence, a state may not tax a bank of the United States; but it
may impose a ta7 on the citizens of such state holding stock in
such bank, and fix the amount of the tax by express reference to
the value of such stock.
So it may tax the real estate held by the bank within the state.
It cannot tax the mint which is the instrument, but it may tax
the income of the superintendent, although that income may be
made up in whole qr in part by the salary of his office. Indeed,
unless this be permitted, he might escape taxation; as any tax, if
the argument be carried to an extreme, may affect that income.
It may not tax the mail, but it may the postmaster. It may not
tax the patent rights, but it may the income of the patentee derived from the sale of patented articles. Such is ihe pedlar's tax
or license. It may not tax judicial process, but it may the clerk
who issue§ it. The former is an instrument for the public good,
the income of the officer is his private emolument, with which
the public has nothing to do.
A contract-br, says C. J. Marshall, for supplying a military post
-With provisions, cannot be restrained from making purchases
within any state, or from transporting them to any place at which
'the troops are stationed, nor could he be fined or taxed for doing
so. But the property of the contractor may be taxed as the property of other citizens. Osburn v. United States Bank, 9 Wheat.
867. That property may be' the profits of his contracts.

SUPREME COURT.
[Dobbins v. The Commissioners of Erie County.]

Pleas of Erie County, which it had given in favour of the plaintiff, (now in error,) upon an agreed statement of facts, in the
nature ofaspecial verdict.
"It was agrbed and admitted, that the plaintiff has his residence and domicil at Erie, Erie county, Pennsylania, and votes
in said place ; that he has been for the last eight years an officer
of the United States, a captain in the United States revenue cutter service, and ever since his appointment has been in service, in
command of the revenue cutter Erie, on the Erie station. That
he has been rated and assessed with county taxe3 for the last
three years, 1835, 1.836, 1837, as such officer of the United States,
for his office, as such, valued at five hundred dollars; which taxes
paid by the plaintiff, amount to the sum of ten dollars and seventyfive cents. The question submitted to the Court is, whether the
plaintiff is liable to be rated and assessed for his office under the
United States, for county rated and levies? If he is,
then jue gment
shall be entered for the defendants; if not, then judgment shall
be entered for the plaintiff, for the sum of ten dollars and seventyfive cents."
This is the only question submitted upon therecord. We think
it sufficiently appears to give the Court jurisdiction, that the Supreme Court in reversing the judgment of the Court of Common
Pleas, and in giving judgment against the plaintiffs, decided in
favour of the validity of a law of Pennsylvania subjecting the
plaintiff to be rated and assessed for his office under the United
States, for county rates and levies; the validity of which law was
in question, on the ground of its being repugnant to the Constitution and laws of the United States.
It was urged in argument by the counsel for the defendants in
error, if the Court has jurisdiction of the cause, that the judgment of the Supreme Court should be affirmed, because the
plaintiff when assessed did not apply to the commissionerrs for
xelief, as the statute provides. And, that having paid the tax., to
an officer who had a colour of right to receive it, it cannot be recovered back by the plaintiff.
Neither of these questions can be considered by this Court.
They are not in the special verdict upon which the judgment
'was rendered. By referriigg to the case, as reported in 7 Watts,
513, it will be seen that the Supreme Court put the case. exclu-

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

443

[Dobbins v. The Commissioners of Erie County.]

It might be contended that the tax diminished his ability to'execute such contract. The limitation is not carried to such consequences.
A tax on government stock was decided, as we have seen, to be
unconstitutional. Weston v. City of Charleston, 2 Voters,- 449.
But it seems to have been admitted in that case, that if- tie tax
had been an inconie tax, although the income was in part or in
the whole made-up of interest on this stock, such tax would have
been constitutional. Such appears from the, opinion of Justice
Johnson, who dissented from the majority of the Court.
So here, a tax upon the hull and apparel of the revenue cutter,
commanded by Captain Dobbins, would have been unconstitutiona]. She was "the means" or " instrument" of the government. But this tax by the state is not of such instrument, but
of one of her citizens, whose income is rated to fix the amount
of his contribution to the public burden. The distinction is
obvious: the, reason for the difference is well taken by Chief
Justice Marshall in M'Culoch v. The State of Maryland, 4 Wheat.
428.

"The people of a state therefore give to their government a
right of taxing themselves and their property. And as the exigencies of government cannot be limited, they prescribe no limits
to the exercise of this right, resting confidently on the interest of
the legislator, and on the influence of the constituents over their
representative to guard them against its abuse
But the means employed by the government of the Union have
no such security, nor is the right of a state to tax them sustained
by the-same theory. *
The safeguard of the influence of the constituent over the representative, is as perfect a protection to the citizen who holds
office under the government of the Union as to any other citizen.
The Court will remark that all offices or posts of profit are required to be rated. There is no discrimination as to the nature
of the office or post.
Mr. Justice WAYNE, delivered the opinion of the Court.
This cause has been brought to this Court by a writ of error to
the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania.
That Court reversed the judgment of the Court of Common

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

445

[Dobbins v. The Commissioners of Erie County.]

sively upon the power and right of the commissioners to enforce
the tax upon the plaintiff, for his office under the United States.
The assessment was made by the commissioners of Erie coumty
under the act of Pennsylvania of the 16th April, 1834. It is
believed to be the only instance of a tax being rated in that state
upon the office of- an officer of the United States. It has, however, received the sanction of the Supreme Court. If it can be
lawfully done, it cannot be doubted that similar assessments will
be made under that law, upon all other officers of the United
States, in Pennsylvania. The language of the Court is, "the case
is put on the power and right to impose the tax. In other words,
is this a legitimate subject of taxation? Perhaps thlis may, in
some measure, depend on, whether, within the true-meaning of
the acts, it is the office itself, or the emoluments of the offixe which
are made the subjects of taxation." In the preceding extract we
gave the language of the Court. The law is, that an account
shall be taken of "all offices and posts of profit." The next section makes it the duty of the assessors, "to rate all offices and
posts of profit, professions, trades, and occupations, at their discretion, having a due regard to the profits arising therefrom."
The emoluments of the office, then, are taxable, and not the
office. But, whether it"be one or the other, we cannot perceive
how a tax upon either conduces to comprehend within the terms
of the act, the office or the compensation of an officer of the
United States. It will not do to say, as it vas said in argument,
that though the language of the. act may-import that offices and
posts of profit were taxable, that it was the citizen who holds the
office whom the law intended to tax, and that it was a burden he
was bound to bear in return for the privileges enjoyed, and the
protection received from government: and, then, that the liability
to pay the tax was a personal charge, because the person upon
whom it was assessed was a taxable person.
The first answer to be given to these suggestions, is, that the tax
is to-be levied upon a valuation of the income of the office. But,
besides the obligation upon persons to pay taxes, is mistaken, and
the sense in which a tax is a personal chargeis misunderstood. The
foundation of the obligation to pay taxes, is not the privileges enjoyed or the protection given to a citizen by government, though
the payment of taxes gives a right to protection. Both are enVOL. XVI.-2 P

SUPREME COURT.
[Dobbins v. The Commissioners of Erie County.]

joyed, as well by those members of a state who do not, because
they are not able to pay taxes, as by those who are able, and do
pay them. Married Women and children have privileges and
protection, but they are not assessed, unless they have goods or
property separate from the heads of families. The necessity of
money for the support of states in times of peace or war, fixes
the obligation upon their citizens to pay such taxes as may be
imposed by lawful authority. And the only sense in which a tax
is a personal charge, is, that it is assessed upon. personal estate,
and the profits of labour and industry. It is called a personal
charge, to distinguish such a tax from the tax upon lands and
tenements, which are enforced without any regard to the persons
who are the owners. Taxes are never assessed, unless it be a
capitation tax, upon persons as persons, but upon them on account of their goods, and the profits made upon professions,
trades, and occupations' They are so imposed, because public
revenue can only be supplied by assessments upon the goods of
individuals- "comprehending under the word 'goods,' all the
estate and effects which every one hath, of whatsoever sort they
be. Taxes regard the persons of men only because of their
goods." The goods then are taxed and not the person. But
those who are to pay the tax are taxable persons, because they
are under an obligation to contribute from their means to the necessities of the state. The obligation, however, only becomes a
charge upon the person in consequence of the power in the state
to enforce the payment of taxes by coercion. This power extends to the sequestration of the goods, and the imprisonment of
the delinquent. A tax, according to the object upon which it is
laid, may be a personal charge; but that is a very different thing
from its becoming a charge upon the person, in consequence of
the coercion which may be provided by law to enforce the payment.
We have been more particular in noticing this argument, because it enabled us to put the point upon which it was intended to
bear upon right principles. Besides, as it was drawn from the
statutes of Pennsylvania, it implied the supposition that her legis.1ature, in these enactments upon taxation, had disregarded those
principles. But this is not so. If the occasion was a proper one
for this Court to do it, we might easily show-that the act through-

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

447

[Dobbins v. The Commissioners of Erie County.]

out, was framed upon an enlightened recognition by the legislators of that state, of all the principles upon which taxes are
imposed. The only difficulty in the act has arisen from the
terms directing assessments to be made upon all offices and posts
of profit, without restricting the assessments to offices and posts
of profit held under the sovereignty of that state; and not excluding them from being made upon offices and posts of profit of
another sovereignty-the United States.
The case being now cleared of other objections, except such as
relate to the unconstitutionality of the tax, we will consider the
real and only questio I in it; that is, "whether the plaintiff is liable
to be rated and assessed for his office under the United States, for
county rates and levies?"
It is not necessary for the decision of this question, that the
power of taxation in the states, and in the United States, under
the Constitution of the latter, should be minutely discussed.
Taxation is a sacred right, essential to the existence of government; an incident of sovereignty. The right of legislation is coextensive with the incident, to attach it upon all persons and
property within the jrisdiction of a state. But in our system
there are limitations upon that right. There is a concurent right
of legislation in the states and the United States, except as both
are restrained by the Constitution of the United States. Both
are restrained upon this subject, by express prohibitions in the
Constitution. And the states, by such as are necessarily implied
when the exercise of the right by o. state conflicts with the perfect execution of another sovereign power, delegated to the
United States. That occurs when taxation by a state acts upon
the instruments, emoluments, arid persons, which the United
States may use and employ as necessary and proper means to
execute their sovereign powers. The government of the United
States is supreme within its sphere of action. The means necessary and proper to crry into effect the powers in the Constitution
ate in Congress. Taxation is a sovereign power in a state; but
the collection of revenue by imposts upon imported goods, and the
regulation of commerce, are also sovereign powers in the United
States. Let us apply then the principles just stated, and the
powers mentioned to the case in judgment, and see what will be
the result.

448

SUPREME COURT
-[Dobbins v. The Commissioners of Erie County.]

Congress has power to lay and collect taxes, duties, imnposts,
&c., and to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among
the several states, and with the Indian tribes. Neither can be
be done without legislation. A complicate machinery of forms,
instruments, and persons, must be established; revenue districts
were to be designated; collectors, naval officers, surveyors, inspectors, appraisers, weighers, measurers and gaugers must be employed; "the better to secure the collection of duties on goods and
on the tonnage of vessels," revenue cutters, and officers to command
them are necessary. The, latter are declared to be officers of the
customs, and they have large powers and authority. All of this is
legislation by Congress to execute sovereign powers. They are
the means necessary to an allowed end: the end, the great
objects which the Constitution was intended to secure to the
states in their character of a nation. Is the officer, as such, less a
means to carry into effect these great objects than the vessel
which he commands, the instruments which are used to navigate
her, or than the guns put on board to enforce obedience to the
law. These inanimate objects, it is admitted, cannot be taxed by
a state, because they are means. Is not the officer more so, who
gives use and efficacy to the whole? Is not compensation'the
means by which his services are procured and retained? It is
true it becomes his when he has earned it. If it can be taxed
by a state as compensation, will not Congress have to graduate
its amount, -with reference to its reduction by the tax? Could
Congress use an uncontrolled discretion in fixing the amount of
compensation, as it would do without the interference of such a
tax? The execution of a national power by.way of compensation to officers, can in no way be subordinate to the action of the
state legislatures upon the same subject. It would destroy also
all uniformity of compensation for the same service, as the taxes
by the states would be different. To allow such a right of taxation to be in the states, would also in effect be to give the states
a revenue out of the revenue of the United States, to which they
are not constitutionally entitled, either directly or indirectly:
neither by their own action, nor by that of Congress.. The revenue of the United States is intended by the Constitution, to pay
the debts, and provide for the common defence and general welfare of the United States; to be expended, in particulars, in carry-

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

449

[Dobbins v. The Commissioners of Erie County.]

ing into effect the laws made to execute all the express powers,
cand all other powers vested by the -Constitution in the government of the United States." But the unconstitutionality of such
taxation by a state as that now before us may be safely putthough it is not the only ground-upon its interference with the
constitutional means which have been legislated by the government of the United States to carry into effect its powers to lay
and collect taxes, duties, imposts, &c.) and to regulate commerce.
In our view, it presents a case of as strong interference as was
presented by the tax imposed by Maryland, in the case of M'Culloch, 4 Wheat. 316; and the tax by the City Council of Charleston,
in Weston's Case, 2 Peters, 449: in both of which it was decided
by this Court, that the state governments cannot lay a tax upon
the constitutional means employed by the government of the
Union to execute its constitutional powers.
But we have said that the ground upon which we have just
put the unconstitutionality of the tax in the case-before us, is not
the sole ground upon which our conclusion can be maintained.
We will now state another groand; and we do so because it is
applicable to exempt the salaries of all officers of the United
States from taxation by the states.
The powers of the national government can only be executed
by officers whose services must be compensated by Congress.
The allowance is in its discretion. The presumption is that the
compensation given by law is no more than the services are
worth, and only such in amount ag will secure from the officer
the diligent performance of his duties. "The officers execute
their offices for the public good. This implies their right of reaping from thence the recompense the services they may render
may deserve ;" without that recompense being in any way lessened, except by the sovereign power from whom the officer
derives his appointment, or by another sovereign power to whom
the first has delegated the right of taxation over all the objects
of taxation, in common with itself, for the benefit of both. And
no diminution in the recompense of an officer s just and lawful,
unless it be prospective, or by way of taxation b the sovereignty
who has a power to impose it; and which is intended to bear
equally upon all according to their estate.
The compensation of an officer of the United States is fixed by
2p2
57

450

SUPREME COURT.
[Dobbins v. The Commissioners of Erie County.]

a law made by Congress. It is in its exclusive discretion to
determine what shall be given. It exercises' the- discretion and
fixes the amount, and confers upon the officer the right to receive
it when it has been earned. Does not a tax then by a state upon
the office, diminishing the recompense, conflict with the law of the
United States, which secures it to the officer in its entireness? It
certainly has such an effect; and any law of a. state imposing such
a tax cannot be constitutional, because it conflicts with a law of
Congress made in pursuance of the Constitution, and which makes
it the supreme law of the land.
Ve are, therefore, of opinion, that the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania, reversing the judgment of the Court of
Common Pleas of Erie county, declaring the plaintiffs was not
liable to be rated and assessed for county rates, and levies for his
office under the United States, is erroneQus; in this-that the said
Supreme Court adjudged that the act of Pennsylvania embracing
all offices and posts of profit; comprehending offices of the United
States, was not repugnant to the Constitution and laws of the
United States;, whereas this Court is of opinion that such repugnancy does exist. We are, therefore, of opinion that the said
judgment ought to be, reversed and annulled; and the cause
remanded to the said Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, in and for
the westerna district, with directions to affirm the judgment of the
Court of Common Pleas of Erie county

