JANUARY TERM, 1842.

ADAM

S. MILLS AND OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. WIL-

LIAm G. BROWN AND OTHERS, AND
CLAIR, DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.

THE

COUNTY

OF

ST,

The Supreme Court has not jurisdiction on a writ of error to the Supreme Court of a
state, in which the judgment of the Court was not, necessarily, given on a point
which was presented in the case involving the constitutionality of an act of the
legislature of the state of Illinois asserted to vioiate a contract.
The Supreme Court will not when requested by te counsel for plaintiffs and defendants in error, in a case in which it has not jurisdiction to affirm or reverse the judgment of the Court from which the same has been brought by a writ of error to a
State Court, examine into the questions in the case and decide upon them. Consent will not give jurisdiction. When the act of Congress has so carefully and
cautiously restricted the jurisdiction-conferred upon this Court, over the judgments
and decrees of the state tribunals, the Court will not exercise jurisdiction in a diflfrent spirit.

IN error to the Supreme Court of the state of Illinois.
The plaintiffs in error instituted a suit in the Circuit-Court of
the state of Illinois, claiming, by a bill filed in that Court to hold
under an act of the legislature of Illinois, an exclusive right to
erect a ferry on the Mississippi river, from land owned b them,
to the city of St. Louis, Missouri. The defendants in the suit
denied the right thus set up, and claimed the right to set up another ferry, from Illinois to St. Louis, under other acts of the
legislature of Illinois. The c.se was, after a decree of the Circuit
Court in favour of the defendants, carried by the plaintiff by,
appeal to the Supreme Court of the. state, where the judgment
in favour of the defendants was affirmed. The plaintiffs prosecuted this writ of error, on the ground that the act of the legislature of Illinois, passed subsequent to the act which had authorized
the.plaintiffd to erect their ferry, was a violation of the contract
made witli the plaintiffs by the act of assembly.
The decision of the Supreme Court of Illinois, which was in
favour of thd defendants, was given upon other questions presented in the case, besides the questions on me contract made by
the Iirst act of the assembly of Illinois.
The counsel for the plaintiffs in error'proposed to the Court

526

SUPREME. COURT.
[Mills et a. v. Brown et al.]

that a decision upon the whole merits of the case should be made,
although it might be considered that the Court had jurisdiction of
the case on the writ of error; the questions in the case being of
great importance, and the parties being willing and desirous to
have them decided by this Court.
The case was argued by Mr. Bogy and Mr. Jones, for the
plaintiffs in"error; and by Mr. Key and Mr. Reynolds, for the
defendants.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case is brought here by writ of error to the Supreme
Court of Illinois under the twenty-fifth section of the act of 1789.
It appear that the legislature of Illinois, by a law passed
March 2, 1819, granted to a certain S. Wiggins, his heirs and
assigns, the right to establish a ferry, upon his own lands, across
the Mississippi, near the town of Illinois.
By a subsequent act of March 2, 1839, the legislature of Illinois granted to the county of St. Clair, in that.state, and to certain
commissioners in behalf of the county, the right to locate a road
and ferry landing between Cahokie creek and the Mississippi
river, opposite to St. Louis. And the commissioners appointed
by this law proceeded to lay out the road and establish the landing on certain lands which belonged to the plaintiffs in error;
and to -which,by sundry conveyances, they derived title from the
said Wiggins.
The plaintiffs in error thereupon filed their bill in the Circuit
Court of the state, praying that the county of St. Clair and the
said commissioners should be enjoined from further proceedings
under the act of assembly last above mentioned., The respondents, the present defendants in error, appeared and demurred
generally to the bill; and upon final hearing of the cause, the
demurrer was sustained by the Circuit Court, and the bill dismissed. From this decision the complainants appealed to the
Supreme Court of the state where the decree of the Circuit Court
was affirmed. Thepoints proposed to be raised here, are, 1st,
Whether the act of assembly of 1819, was not a contract with
the said Wiggins, his heirs and assigns; and, 2d, Whether the act
of 1839 does not imp'air the contract.

JANUARY TERI; 1842.

527

[Mills et al. v. Brown et aL]

These points are not directly stated in the pleadings, nor are
they noticed in thie decree of the Circuit or Supreme Court of the
state. Yet if it appeared from the bill, that the Court could not
have sustained the demurrer without considering and deciding
these points; if they were necessarily involved in the decision
of the case, as presented by the bill and deniurrer, this Court
would nave jurisdiction upon the writ of error, although they
are not expressly stated in the decrees to have been raised and
decided.
It is unnecessary for the purposes of this opinion to state the
contents of the bill Indeed, as concerns the question before us,
it could not well be uhderstood without giving the whole bill in
its own \vords. It is sufficient to say that we have carefully
examined it, and are satisfied that the points proposed to be
raised here, were hot necessarily involved in the judgmelit given
by the State Court. On the contrary, we think it may have
come to the conclusion that ihe demurrer ought to be sustained
on other grounds, and that the bill was not so framed as to require a decision upon these questions.
It is true that the plaintiffs and defendants in error have both
waived all objections to, jurisdiction, and have pressed the Court
for a decision on the principal points. But consent will not give
jurisdiction. And we have heretofore, on several occasions, said,
that when the act of Congress has so carefully and. cautiously
restricted the jurisdiction conferred upon this Court, over the
judgments and decrees 6f the state tribunals, it would ill become
the Court to exercise it in a different spirit. And it certainly
could not be justified in expressing an opinion favourable or unfavourable as to the correctness of this decree, when it has not
the power to affirm or reverse it.
The writ of error must therefore be dismissed.

