.196

THE

SUPREME COURT.

UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS,

V. JOHN M.
OTHERS, APPELLEES.

HANSON

AND

A Florida land claim. - A grant of five miles square, or sixteen thousand acres of land,
was made by the Spanish Govemoi of East Florida, at the mouth of the river Santa
Lucia. The petition for the grant stated various merits and losses of the petitioner,
and asked the grant of five miles square, for the construction of a water saw-mill.
The grant was given for the purposes mentioned, and "also paying attention to the
,services and other matters set forth in the petition." No survey under the grant was
made by the surveyor-general of Florida; but a survey was made by a private surveyor. The survey did not follow the calls of the grant, and no proof was given
that it was made at the place mentioned in the grant. The survey and plat were
not made according to the established rules relative to surveys to be made by the surveyor-general undersuch grants. Nor was the plat made with the proportion ofland
on the river, required by the regulations. The Superior Court of Florida held that
the grant having been made in consideration of services rendered by the grantee, as
well as 'for a water saw-mill, it was valid, without the erection of the mill; but the
survey was altogether void, and of no effect. The decree of the Superior Court of
Florida, by which the grant and survey were confirmed, was remanded to the Superior
Court of Florida; that Court to order the sixteen thousand acres granted, to be surveyed according to the principles stated in the opinion of the Supreme Court.
It has often been held that the authorities of Spain had the power to grant the public
domain, in accordance with their own ideas of the merits and considerations presented by the grantee; and that the powers of the Supreme Court of the United
States extend only to the inquiry, whether, in-fact, the grant had been made, and its
legal effect when made, in cases where the law by implication introduced a condition,
or it was peculiar in its provisions. No special ordinafice of Spain introduces conditions into mill grants.
Cited, Mrs. Wiggins's Case, 14 Peters;. Sibbald's Case, 10 Peters.
The certificate of a private surveyor, that he had permission from the governor of the
territory to make, a survey of the land granted, is no evidence of the fact. There is a
rparked and wide difference in the effect of the certificate of the surveyo-general and
of a private individual, who assumes to certify without authority.
Instructions of 1811, as to the duties of the surveyor-general, in making surveys under
grants, by the governors of the public lands of Spain.
A grant by a Spanish Governor of Florida, meant not, as in the states'of the United
States, a perfect title'; but ;n incipient kight, which, when surveyed, required confirmation by the governor. Theduty" of confirmation by the acts of Congres, is deputed
to the Courts of justice of the United States, in execution of the treaty with Spain.
The same credence that was accorded to the return of the surveyor-general, by the
Spanish government, is d le to it by the Courts of the United States. Plats and certificates, because of the official character of the surveyor-general, have accorded&to
them the force and character of a deposition.

ON appeal from the Superior Court of East Florida.

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

197

(The United States v. Hanson.]

Samuel Miles, a new settler, admitted under the protection
of the King of Spain, on the 18th of July, 1813, presented a
petition to Governor Kindelan, the Spanish Governor of East
Florida, setting forth great services performed by him for the supply of the troops of Spain, in the province, and severe sufferings and losses sustained by him in the service of the crown; and
considering himself entitled to some fav6ur, asked for a grant of
five miles square of land, for the construction of a water sawmill, at a place fit for the purpose, and which is vacant, situated
at the mouth of the river Santa Lucia.
The governor gave the following decree on the petition:
St. du,ustine, Florida, 19th July, 1813.
Taking into consideration the benefit and utility that will redound to the province, from a machine for sawing lumber, which
the party proposes to construct in the place which he points out,
and also paying attention to the services and other matters which
he sets forth, let there be granted to him the five miles square of
land which he solicits, without injury to a better right; and in
order to prove this grant, let there be delivered to him from th
KINDELAN.
secretary's office, the necessary certified copy.
On the 7th of May, 1815, a survey and plat of the land, was
returned, with the following certificate:
I, Don Roberto MIHardy, an inhabitant of this province, and
private surveyor, do certify: That in consequence of a permission
from this government, I have surveyed and delineitted a square
of five miles, containing sixteen thousand acres of land, which
this government has granted to Don Samuel Miles, on the nineteenth of July, one thousand eight hifindred and thirteen, which
plat is represented ini the preceding plot. St. Augustine, .of
Florida, on the seventh May, one thousand eight hundred and
Ron. I'HARDY.
fifteen.
On the 23d day of May, 1829,'John M. Hanson, and others,
the grantees of Samuel Miles, brought their petition before the
Superior Court of East Florida, setting forth the grant to Samuel
Miles, and their title under the same; and praying that the
land, as surveyed by Robert M'Hardy, might be confirmed to
them.
After various proceedings in the Court, at July term, 1840, a
it2

198

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Hanso.]

de.ree -was made by the Honourable Isaac H. Brdnson, judge of
the Superior Court, in favour of the claim, in conformity with
the survey of Robert M'Hardy. From this decree, the United
States proqcuted an appeal.
The case was argued by Mr. Legar6, attorney-general for the
United States. No coungel appeared for the appellees.
The attorney-general contended:
1. That there never was any legal survey of the land, under the
alleged, grant: and that the survey of Rdbert M'Hardy, who was
a pri~ate surveyor, was void for want of authority, even if proved
to have been made; and could not sever the lands surveyed from
e public'domain.
2. That even if the said'survey were made by legal authgrity,
the land surveyed-do not conform to the description in the
said pretended grant, and'the said survey is therefore void.
Mr. Justice CATROi delivered the opinion.of the Court.
This was a grant t6 Samuel Miles, dated 18th July, 1813, for
five miles square of land, or sixteen thousand acres, at the mouth
of the river Santa Lucia.
The first question' is, was the grant made in property and
domuiion, or.was it made on condition that a water saw-mill
should be erected? The pbtitioner sets forth variQils merits and
losses, aqd'asks the governor to be pileased to grant to him in
-virtue of these, the possession of five miles square for the eonstruction of a water saw-mill, fit for the purpose, at a place that
is vacant, at the mouth of the river 'Santa Lucia. The grant to
be in lawful propert and dominion.
The grant was made to the petitioner for the purpose of constructing the mill in the place pointed out: "and also (says the
governor) paying. attention to the services and other matf-rs
which he'sets forth, that there be granted to him the five miles
square of land which he solicits, without injury to a better
right."
We have oftenheld, that the authorities of Spain were authorized to grant the public domain, in accordance with their own
'ideas of the merits and considerations presented by the grantee:

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

199

[The United States v.Hanson.]

and that our powers extended only to the inquiry, whether in
fact the grant, had been made; and its legal effect when made,
in cases where the law by implication intr6duced a condition, or
it was peculiar in its provisions. Mrs. Wiggins's Case,'14 Peters. As no special ordinance introduces conditions- into mill
grants, we must construe the one before us by its own terms.
The party desired the"grant for the purpose of building a sawmill; so he represents, and we must take his statemnnt to be t~ue,
as the concession in effect adopts it; and to this end sixteen thousand acres were granted; it being the usual quantity in such cases.
The grant, however,.is not founded on that consideration, although
intended for that purpose. Meritorious services and losses are
relied on; and the land was asked and granted, in lawful prdperty
and dominion, without any condition annexed to build the mill.
2. The second objection is to the survey. Its validity is put
in itssue by the answer; and its introduction was objected to when
offered to be read on the hearing, because it had been made ly
a mere private surveyor . 'andbecause it did not follow the calls
of the grant. The Court received the survey, and decreed the,
land laid off.
There was no proofthat it was atthe place granted, further than.
appears by the face of the plat and certificate: and we must inquire
what credit ought to have been accorded to them by the Court.
Mr. M'Hardy certifies that he was a private surveyor; and that
he had permission from the government, whether gbneral or special does not appear. His own statement is no evidence of the
fact. And 'so it is in regard to his description of the land surveyed, which he certifies as lying at the place granted. There is
a marked and wide difference in the effect of the certificate of the
surveyor-general and a private individual, who assumes to certify without authority. What the duties of the former are is .well
known from the proofs in many cases presented to this Court.
They, however, are set forth by the instructions of 1811. Land
Laws, 1003, 1004. First, the grant must be presented; then the
persons having adjoining lands to the place designated must be
notified, that they may be present at the making of 'the survey,
with their titles, so that there be no interference; the lands must
be bounded by rectangular parallelograms; and fronts on rivers,
navigable creeks, and public roads, shall not exceed one third of

200

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Hanson.]

the depth back: to each person, whose lands have been measured, a plat will be given, with the lines drawn in black ink; and
when bounded by a river, creek, or swamp, (which is permitted,)
a quantity will be added, or be deducted, maintaining the rectangular form on the other lines; the number of acres will be on
the centre of the plot; and the scale one inch to four chains.
The plat will be delivered to the grantee with the following
inscription: "Plat of the number of acres of land, of A. B., in
such a place, measured and bounded by the public surveyor of
this province, Don George Clarke, East Florida; the day of the
year and month, on the same tracts. George Clarke." "cThe
surveyor will keep a book of large paper, and copy therein
the plats he gives out;. these plats will be numbered; the book
will be indexed. At the end of the book he will have a sheet
of sufficient size for a general plan, containing the surveys for
individuals, with the number of each.
"The book will serve to show government what lands are
vacant, or not measured; and he shall keep a journal to satisfy
the persons having lands adjoining. The corners are to be
marked with stakes, three inches diameter at the head; and the
owners shall encircle them with oyster shells, two feet deep, and
two feet diameter."
A grant delivered out for survey, meant not, as with us, a
perfect title, but an incipient right; which, when surveyed, required confirmation by the governor.. The duty of confirmation,
by the acts of Congress, is deputed to the Courts of justice of
the United States, in execution of the treaty with Spain.
The same credence, it follows, that was accorded to the return
of the surveyor-general by the Spanish governor, before the
cession, is due to it by the'Courts of this country. The acts of
the officer and the governor were both on behalf of the government; each by his duty was bound to protect the public domain,
and to guard the law from violation: if the surveyor, therefore,
by his plat and certificate returned that he bad surveyed the land
at the place granted, not by the assertion only that it was at
the place, but l y a description in legal form, that it was so; then
the return was primra facie competent evidence, without further
proof, on which the governor could found the confirmation.
Plats ahd certificates, because of the official character of the

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

201

[The United States v. Hanson.]
surveyor-general, have accorded to them the force and character
of a deposition: the same as Aguilar's certificate .to a copy of
the grant; as we held in the case of Wiggins, 14 Peters, 346.
In contrast to the official survey and return, how does this
private one of Mr. M'Hardy stand? No proof was made that
it was on the land granted; the certificate does not even so assert,
and there is' no plat in the record: did it, however, appear in the
clearest manner on the face of the paper, it 'would be of no value.
The private surveyor acted not for and with the interests, of the
government, but at the instance of the grantee; and for his interest, and against the government. The survey was a private act;
the plat and certificate private papers, delivered to the grantee,
of which no record was made in the surveyor-general's office;
and of which the governor could take no notice, unless it was
presented to him, and extrinsic proof made that it was for the
land granted; and that it had been lawfully made in regard to
navigable waters, roads, adjoining granted lands, and line marks.
Then he could have ordered a perfect title to issue founded on
the survey; as he did do in many instances on surveys of lMfr.
M'Hardy, and as this Court has done and would do on similar
proof.
The decree of the Superior Court gives the lines and description of the survey, to wit: "five miles square of land situatea
at the mouth of the river Santa Lucia: the lines of the said survey thereof are as follows, to wit, the first line commences at a
cedar tree marked M, on the bank of Indian river, and runs
south sixty degrees, west four hundred chains to a pine marked
M; the second line commences at said pine, and runs north thirty
degrees west, four hundred chains to another pine marked M; the
third line 'runs from said pine north sixty degrees east four hundred chains to a live-oak marked M, oii the banks of Indian
river; and the fourth line is formed and bounded by said river."
It is laid down in a square, with one side of four hundred
chains on the Indian river. By the fourth instruction to the
surveyor-general, (declaratory of the standing. law of the province,) the front on the river could not exceed one-third of the
longitadinal extension back. Land Laws, 1004. Nor does the
description in the concession, "of five miles square," alter the
rule prescribed by the general law. It had reference more to

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Hanson.]

quantity than formi of survey; Sibbald's Case, 10 Peters: and
was made on the assumption that no controling objects, such as
rivers, would be either included or bounded upon; and if they
were, that the general law would govern the survey.
The grant is for five miles square at the mouth of the river
Santa. Lucia; this is represented to be a fit place for a saw-mill,
to supply timber for which the grant was made. We take it the
place is on the side of the Indian river, to which the Santa Lucia-is a tributary; and that the Santa Lucia is not navigable, or a
mill would not have been permitted io obstruct it, of this, however, the governor had the right to judge; butwe cannot suppose
,the survey was intended to include the Indian river; or to front
on it one-third part. We, therefore, hold the concession carried
with it the condition imposed by law, in regard to the form of
the survey.
The decree is reversed, and the cause remanded to the Court
below to be further proceed&A in. That Cdurt will o der the
sixteen thousand acres to be properly surveyed, according to the
principles above stated; and found its decree of confirmation on
the new survey.

