SUPREME -COURT.

TOBIAS N=DoRwr, APPEmANT, vi L.wis SMITA, APPELLEE.
A decree of a perpetual injunction on suits instituted on the .comnoi law side of the
Circuit Court of the District of Columbia, reversed, and the b'll d4miaaed; the ao.
cowits between the pirties having been errdneously adjusted Inthe Circuit Court.

ON appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States, for ihe
District of Columbia, for the county, of Washington.
This case was argued by Mr. Key, for the appellant; and by
Mr.. Coxe, for the appellee.
JJustice M'X-nLEY delivered the 'opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal:to this Court, from the Circuii Court 6ofthe
District -of,Lolumbia; for the county of Washington, sitting, in
Chancery.
Smith, the appellee, ffled a bill in Chancer against Nixdorff,
stating that he' had, purchased of Nixdoryf all his right and inte-rest in the stock in trade, and commercial business, then carried
on in thecity of Baltimore, by Nixdorffand Hager; and agreed
to pay to Nixdorff, in hand, the sum of five thougand dollars, and
at the expiration- of two years, thereafter, such futher sum as
would be sufficient to reimburse to Nixdorg, thh balance of-, his
interest, f6r inestment of capital and interest thereon, after dei.
ducting the payment of the. five thousand'dollars. And in contemplation of the agreement, and after the terms had been fully
settled among the parties, but before it was written, Smith entered
,into partnership with, Hager, and.agreed with 'him to continue
the same business, under the. name and firm of Hager and Smith.
And in anticipation of the new, partnership, it was agreed that the
firm of Hager and Smith should assume the whole of the debts
of Nixdrff and Hager, and provide for their payment; and that
all the debts owing to Nixdorf and Hager should be collected by
Hager and Smith: and it was further agreed that Smith should
sustain no loss by thepcollection of the debts due to Nixdorf and
Hager.
It is further charged, that Nixdorff's half of the goods, in the
store of Nixdorff and Hager, was sold o Smith, at twelve and a
half per cent. discountvon the cot price-; that an inventory was

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

133

[Nixdorffv. Smith.]
taken of the goods, and, after malting the stipulated deduction,
Nixdorff's half amounted to five thousand nine hundred and
seventy-five dollars, and thirty-two cents. , The agreement, dated
the ninth day of August, 1833, and signed by the parties, was
made part of the bilL It is there charged, that the amount of
debts paid by Hager and Smith for Nixdorff and Hager, including interest to the first of November, 1837, was forty-five thousand nine hundred and ninety-two dollars, and fifty-two cents; and
the anrount collected for them, with interest, to the same period,
amounted to thirty~nine thousand six hundred and eleven dollars
and nine cents; showing a balance against Nixdorff and Hager
of six thotisand three hundred and eighty-one dollars and.fortythree cents.
. It is further stated ih-the bill, that the firm of Hager and Smith
afterwards purchased of Nixdorff, who was then doing business
on his own accqunt, goods- and merchandise to the amount of
four thousand five hundred dollars,.for which they gave their
promissory notes; that Hager and Smith afterwards failed in
business, and HAger removed to. the western country, leaving
Smith to pay the debts of the. firm; that Nixdorff has brought
suit against him, on the common law side of the Court, upon the
promissory note ; and refuses to permit him to set off the above
balance of accounts - in that ,suit. He, therefore, prayed that
Nixdorff might be enjoined from proceeding further at law; and
that by decree of the Court this equitable off-set should be allowed.
The prayer for the injunction was granted.
-Nixdorff, in his answer, denied that an balance was due
from Nixdorff and Hager to Hager and Smith; and he also denied
that he'had ever refused to go into a settlement of the accounts
between the two firms.
By order of the Court below, the accounts between the parties,
as set up in the bill and answer, were referred to an auditor, with
many special instructions. By his report it appears, that the
amount of debts collected by Hager and Smith for Nixdorff and
Hager, under the contract between the parties, amounted to
forty-two thousand and twenty-six dollars, including interest, to
which he added the amount of goods contained in the inventory,
after deducting twelve and a half per cent. from Nixdorff's half,
making in all fifty-four thousand eight hundred and thirty dollars
VOL. XVI.-AlM

134

-SUPREME COURT.
[Nixdorffv. Smith.]

and tweny-,six cents, to the credit of Nixdorff and Hager; and
he charged them with debts paid under the contract, including
Interest, the sum of forty-five thousand nine hundred and ninetytwo dollars and fifty-two cents; to which he added the sum of
five thousand dollars paid by Smith to Nixdorff, making in all
the amount of debits fifty thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
dollars, and fifty-two cents; showing a balance in favour of Nixdorff and Hager, of three thousand eight hundred and thirty-seven
dollars and seventy-four cents.
To this report the complainant filed the following exception.
"The auditor has erred in this, that he has charged the complainant with the amount of the whole inventory of the goods of
Nixdorff and Hager. Whereas the complainant was purchaser
of one-half of the goods only, and should have been charged
with no more; the other half being the private property of
Hager, and as such brought into the capital stock of Hager and
Spnith." The Court sustained this exceptidh, and directed the
aaditor to restate the accounts between the parties.
In the reformed report the auditor charges Nixdorff with fortyfive thousand nine 'hundred and ninety-two dollais and fifty-two
cents, for debts paid by Hager and Smith for Nixdorff and Hager,
and adds the five thousand dollars paid by Smith to Nixdorff;
making Nixdorffs debt to Hager and Smiith fifty thousand nine
hundred arid- ninety-two dollars and fifty-two cents; and hecredits Nixdorff by forty thousand three hundred and seventysix dollars and sixty cents, for debts dollected for Nixdorff and
Hager, to which he added five thousand nine hundred and
seventy-five dollars and thirty-two cents, for Nixdorff's half of
the goods; making the whole amount of credits forty-six thousand three htindred and fifty-one dollars and Iiinety-two cents;
leaving a balance due from Nixdorff and Hager to Hager and
Smith of f6ur thousand six hundred and forty dollars and sixty
cents. The amount of the debt dtie from Hager and Smith to
Nixdorff, for which Smith was sued, being four thousand eight
hundred and seventy-four dollars and forty-five cents, the auditor
deducted the balance found due from Nixdorff and Hager, from
that sum, andreports a balance finally due to Nixdorff of two hundred and thirty-three dollars and eighty-five cents; and excludes
Hager's half of the goods, included in the inventory, entirely

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

135

[Nitdorf v. Smith.]

from the account; on the ground that they were not subject to
the debts of Nixdorff and Hager.
To this part of the report the defendant excepted. But the
Court overruled the exception, confirined the reformed report of
the auditor, and decreed that the injunction should be made perpetual; except for the sum of two hundred and thirty-three dollars
and eighty-five cents, as reported by the auditor.
A very brief examination of the case will test the correctness
of this decree. The equity, set up in the complainant's bill, rests
entirely on the assumption that, upon a full and fair settlement of
accounts, under the contract referred to, a large balance would be
found against Nixdorff; and upon the apparent establishment of
this fact, is the decree founded. If, however, it be shown that,
instead of Nixdorff being indebted to Hager and Smith, on such
settlement, they are largely indebted to him, the bill will be without equity, and the decree of course erroneous. By bringing into
the accounts all the effects of Nixdorif and Hager, the auditor's
first report shows, very satisfactorily, a considerable balance in
favour of Nixdorff.
But the complainant's counsel seems to have taken up the idea,
that the five thousand dollars paid by Smith to Nixdorff applied
ex lusively to the payment of Nixdorff's half of the goods; and
that the legal effect of the payment was, to release Hager's half
of the goods from liability to tfie debts of Nixdorff and Hager:
and this principle was recognised by the auditor in his reformed
report, and by the Court in their decree; notwithstanding the
allegations in the complainant's bill, and the stipulations of the
contract, show clearly, that the five thousand dollars were paid
upon the purchase of the whole of Nixdorff's interest. Whether
the payment was special or general, is not material to the merits
of the case; but it is very material in considering the effect
ascribed to it in the Court below. For, if the payment had the
power to release Hager's part of the goods from liability, because
Nixdorff had sold to Smith his part of them, and received part
of the purchase-money, it must necessarily have the same effect,
if it applied to the sale and purchase of the whole of Nixdorff's
interest. The fact being that Nixdorf did sell the whole of his
interest to Smith, and received the five thousand dollars in part
payment of the whole; to carry out the principle assumed, the

SUPREME COURT.
[Nixdorff v. Smith.]

whole of Hager's interest in the firm of Nixdoiff and Hager
was thereby discharged fram liability to the payment of their
debts; and the burden of paying them devolved upon Nixdorff.
A course of reasoning leading to conclusions so much at variance
with law and justice, is answered-by merely stating it.
This singular error originated in charging Nixdorff with the
five thousand dollars paid by Smith,'on account of the vhole purchase; and then refusing to charge Hager and Smith with the
whole -amount of the partnership effects in their hands, originally
belonging to Nixdorff and Hager. The very moment that Nixdorff was charged with this sum of five thousand dollars, the
payment of it by Smith was neutralized, and the transaction between the parties stood as though no payment had been made. The
only consideration left, therefore, to support the sale by Nixdorff
to Smith, was the undertaking of Hager and Smith, in the written contract, to pay the debts of Nixdorff and Hager. In this
aspect of the case, the liability of all their effects in the hands of
the former, to the payment of the debts of the latter, cannot be
doubted. By the first -report of the auditor it appears that he
settled the accounts between the parties, upon the principles here
suggested; that is, by charging Hager and Smith with the whole
inventory of the goods, and the money collected for Nixdorff and
-Hager, and by charging Nixdorff with the money paid by Hager and Smith, in discharge of the debts of Nixdorff and Hager,
and also with the five thousand dollars paid to him by Smith.
And upon this statement of the accbunts, as already shown,
a considerable balance appears in favour of Nixdorff and
Hager.
But the auditor afterwards, it appears, became a convert to
the doctrine of the complainant's counsel; and, in his reformed
report, excluded Hager's part of the goods from the settlement
altogether; and thereby created a seeming balance in favour of
Iager and Smith, to nearly the 4mount of their debt to Nixdorff,
on which the suit at lawv was brought. This, statement of the
accounts by the auditor in his first 'report, as far as it has beenhere examined, is perfectly correct; and ought to have been bonfirmed by the Court. The equity, set up in the bill, depending
entirely on the truth of the allegation, that the balance would be
ii favour of Hager and Smith, upon such settlement of the ac-

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

137

[Nixdorff v. Smith.]

counts; the balance being clearly established against them, and in
favour of Nixdorflf extinguishes, therefore, all pretence to any
equitable set-off in favour of Smith. The decree of the Circuit
Court is, therefore, reversed, the injunction dissolved, and the bill
dismissed.

X2

is

