OCTOBER TERM, 1995
Syllabus

MEGHRIG ET AL. v. KFC WESTERN, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 95-83. Argued January 10, 1996-Decided March 19, 1996
Three years after complying with a county order to clean up petroleum
contamination discovered on its property, respondent KFC Western,
Inc., brought this action under the citizen suit provision of the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA), 42 U. S. C. §6972(a), to
recover its cleanup costs from petitioners, the Meghrigs. KFC claimed,
among other things, that the contamination had previously posed an
"imminent and substantial endangerment to health or the environment,"
see §6972(a)(1)(B), and that the Meghrigs were responsible for "equitable restitution" under §6972(a) because, as prior owners of the property,
they had contributed to the contaminated site. The District Court dismissed the complaint, holding that § 6972(a) does not permit recovery of
past cleanup costs and that §6972(a)(1)(B) does not authorize a cause of
action for the remediation of toxic waste that does not pose an "imminent and substantial endangerment" at the time suit is filed. The Ninth
Circuit disagreed on both points and reversed.
Held" Section 6972 does not authorize a private cause of action to recover
the prior cost of cleaning up toxic waste that does not, at the time of
suit, continue to pose an endangerment to health or the environment.
Pp. 483-488.
(a) A private party cannot recover the cost of a past cleanup effort
under §6972(a), which authorizes district courts "to restrainany person
[responsible for toxic waste], to order such person to take such other
action as may be necessary, or both." (Emphasis added.) Under a
plain reading of this remedial scheme, a citizen plaintiff could seek a
mandatory injunction that orders a responsible party to "take action" by
attending to the cleanup and proper disposal of waste, or a prohibitory
injunction that "restrains" a responsible party from further violating
RCRA. Neither remedy, however, contemplates the award of past
cleanup costs, whether denominated "damages" or "equitable restitution." A comparison with the relief provided in the analogous, but not
parallel, provisions of the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 demonstrates that Congress
knows how to provide for the recovery of past cleanup costs, and that
§ 6972(a) does not provide that remedy. Pp. 483-485.

MEGHRIG v. KFC WESTERN, INC.
Syllabus
(b) Section 6972(a)(1)(B)-which permits citizen suits against persons
responsible for "waste which may present an imminent and substantial
endangerment to health or the environment" (emphasis added)-does
not authorize a suit based upon an allegation that the contaminated site
posed such an endangerment at some time in the past. This timing
restriction's plain meaning demonstrates that an endangerment can only
be "imminent" if it threatens to occur immediately, and the reference to
waste which "may present" imminent harm quite clearly excludes waste
that no longer presents such a danger. This language implies that there
must be a threat which is present now, although the impact of the threat
may not be felt until later. It follows that §6972(a) was designed to
provide a remedy that ameliorates present or obviates the risk of future
"imminent" harms, not a remedy that compensates for past cleanup
efforts. Other aspects of RCRA's enforcement scheme strongly support this conclusion, and the existence of such an elaborate scheme
refutes the Government's contention that district courts may award
past cleanup costs under their inherent equitable remedial authority.
Pp. 485-488.
(c) This Court does not consider whether a private party could seek
to obtain an injunction requiring another party to pay cleanup costs
arising after a RCRA citizen suit has been properly commenced. P. 488.
49 F. 3d 518, reversed.
O'CONNOR, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.
John P. Zaimes argued the cause and filed briefs for

petitioners.
Jeffrey P. Minear argued the cause for the United States
as amicus curiae urging reversal. With him on the brief
were Solicitor General Days, Assistant Attorney General
Schiffer, Deputy Solicitor General Wallace, Anne S. Almy,
and John T Stahr.
Daniel Romano argued the cause and fied a brief for
respondent.*
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the Petroleum
Marketers Association of America by Alphonse M. Alfano and Robert S.
Bassman; for the Southern California Service Station Association by
DimitriG. Daskalopoulos;and for the Western States Petroleum Association by Donna R. Black.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts et al. by Scott Harshbarger,Attorney General of

Cite as: 516 U. S. 479 (1996)

Opinion of the Court
JUSTICE O'CONNOR

delivered the opinion of the Court.

We consider whether § 7002 of the Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA), 42 U. S. C. § 6972, authorizes a private cause of action to recover the prior cost of
cleaning up toxic waste that does not, at the time of suit,
continue to pose an endangerment to health or the environment. We conclude that it does not.
I
Respondent KFC Western, Inc. (KFC), owns and operates
a "Kentucky Fried Chicken" restaurant on a parcel of property in Los Angeles. In 1988, KFC discovered during the
course of a construction project that the property was contaminated with petroleum. The County of Los Angeles Department of Health Services ordered KFC to attend to the
problem, and KFC spent $211,000 removing and disposing of
the oil-tainted soil.
Three years later, KFC brought this suit under the citizen
suit provision of RCRA, 90 Stat. 2825, as amended, 42
Massachusetts, and William L. Pardee,John Beling, and Karen McGuire,
Assistant Attorneys General, Jeremiah W. Nixon, Attorney General of
Missouri, and James Layton, Joseph P. Bindbeutel, and Douglas E. Nelson, Assistant Attorneys General, and by the Attorneys General of their
respective jurisdictions as follows: Bruce M. Botelho of Alaska, Calvin E.
Holloway of Guam, Chris Gorman of Kentucky, Frankie Sue DeI Papaof
Nevada, Tom Udall of New Mexico, Darrell V McGraw, Jr., of West Virginia, Robert A Butterworth of Florida, Carla Stolla of Kansas, Richard
P. Ieyoub of Louisiana, Deborah T Poritz of New Jersey, Dennis C. Vacco
of New York, and James E. Doyle of Wisconsin; for the State of Louisiana
through its Department of Transportation and Development by William
M. Hudson III, Edgar D. Gankendorff, Lawrence A Durant,James M.
Bookter, and Charley Hutchens; for the Bi-State Development Agency of
the Missouri-Illinois Metropolitan District by Timothy W. Burns, Jerome
M. Organ, John Fox Arnold, and Nelson G. Wolff; and for Kaufman
and Broad Home Corp. et al. by William N. Kammer and Robert C.
Longstreth.

MEGHRIG v. KFC WESTERN, INC.

Opinion of the Court

U. S. C. §6972(a),* seeking to recover these cleanup costs
from petitioners Alan and Margaret Meghrig.
KFC claimed that the contaminated soil was a "solid
waste" covered by RCRA, see 42 U. S. C. §6903(27), that it
had previously posed an "imminent and substantial endangerment to health or the environment," see § 6972(a)(1)(B),
and that the Meghrigs were responsible for "equitable restitution" of KFC's cleanup costs under § 6972(a) because, as
prior owners of the property, they had contributed to the
waste's "past or present handling, storage, treatment, transportation, or disposal." See App. 12-19 (first amended
complaint).
The District Court held that §6972(a) does not permit recovery of past cleanup costs and that §6972(a)(1)(B) does not
authorize a cause of action for the remediation of toxic waste
that does not pose an "imminent and substantial endangerment to health or the environment" at the time suit is filed,
and dismissed KFC's complaint. App. to Pet. for Cert. A21A23. The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed,
over a dissent, 49 F. 3d 518, 524-528 (1995) (Brunetti, J.),
fmding that a district court had authority under § 6972(a) to
award restitution of past cleanup costs, id., at 521-523, and
*Section 6972(a) provides, in relevant part:
"Except as provided in subsection (b) or (c) of this section, any person
may commence a civil action on his own behalf"(1)(B) against any person, including... any past or present generator,
past or present transporter, or past or present owner or operator of a
treatment, storage, or disposal facility, who has contributed or who is contributing to the past or present handling, storage, treatment, transportation, or disposal of any solid or hazardous waste which may present an
imminent and substantial endangerment to health or the environment ....
"... The district court shall have jurisdiction... to restrain any person

who has contributed or who is contributing to the past or present handling,
storage, treatment, transportation, or disposal of any solid or hazardous
waste referred to in paragraph (1)(B), to order such person to take such
other action as may be necessary, or both ....
"

Cite as: 516 U. S. 479 (1996)
Opinion of the Court

that a private party can proceed with a suit under
§6972(a)(1)(B) upon an allegation that the waste at issue
presented an "imminent and substantial endangerment" at
the time it was cleaned up, id., at 520-521.
The Ninth Circuit's conclusion regarding the remedies
available under RCRA conflicts with the decision of the
Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit in Furrerv. Brown,
62 F. 3d 1092, 1100-1101 (1995), and its interpretation of the
"imminent endangerment" requirement represents a novel
application of federal statutory law. We granted certiorari
to address the conflict between the Circuits and to consider
the correctness of the Ninth Circuit's interpretation of
RCRA, 515 U. S. 1192 (1995), and now reverse.
II
RCRA is a comprehensive environmental statute that governs the treatment, storage, and disposal of solid and hazardous waste. See Chicago v. Environmental Defense Fund,
511 U. S. 328, 331-332 (1994). Unlike the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act
of 1980 (CERCLA), 94 Stat. 2767, as amended, 42 U. S. C.
§ 9601 et seq., RCRA is not principally designed to effectuate
the cleanup of toxic waste sites or to compensate those who
have attended to the remediation of environmental hazards.
Cf. General Electric Co. v. Litton Industrial Automation
Systems, Inc., 920 F. 2d 1415, 1422 (CA8 1990) (the "two
... main purposes of CERCLA" are "prompt cleanup of hazardous waste sites and imposition of all cleanup costs on the
responsible party"). RCRA's primary purpose, rather, is to
reduce the generation of hazardous waste and to ensure the
proper treatment, storage, and disposal of that waste which
is nonetheless generated, "so as to minimize the present and
future threat to human health and the environment." 42
U. S. C. §6902(b).
Chief responsibility for the implementation and enforcement of RCRA rests with the Administrator of the Environ-

MEGHRIG v. KFC WESTERN, INC.
Opinion of the Court

mental Protection Agency (EPA), see §§ 6928, 6973, but like
other environmental laws, RCRA contains a citizen suit provision, §6972, which permits private citizens to enforce its
provisions in some circumstances.
Two requirements of § 6972(a) defeat KFC's suit against
the Meghrigs. The first concerns the necessary timing of a
citizen suit brought under §6972(a)(1)(B): That section permits a private party to bring suit against certain responsible
persons, including former owners, "who ha[vel contributed
or who [are] contributing to the past or present handling,
storage, treatment, transportation, or disposal of any solid
or hazardous waste which may present an imminent and
substantial endangerment to health or the environment."
(Emphasis added.) The second defines the remedies a district court can award in a suit brought under §6972(a)(1)(B):
Section 6972(a) authorizes district courts "to restrain any
person who has contributed or who is contributing to the
past or present handling, storage, treatment, transportation,
or disposal of any solid or hazardous waste... , to order
such person to take such other action as may be necessary,
or both." (Emphasis added.)
It is apparent from the two remedies described in §6972(a)
that RCRA's citizen suit provision is not directed at providing compensation for past cleanup efforts. Under a plain
reading of this remedial scheme, a private citizen suing
under § 6972(a)(1)(B) could seek a mandatory injunction, i. e.,
one that orders a responsible party to "take action" by attending to the cleanup and proper disposal of toxic waste, or
a prohibitory injunction, i. e., one that "restrains" a responsible party from further violating RCRA. Neither remedy,
however, is susceptible of the interpretation adopted by the
Ninth Circuit, as neither contemplates the award of past
cleanup costs, whether these are denominated "damages" or
"equitable restitution."
In this regard, a comparison between the relief available
under RCRA's citizen suit provision and that which Congress

Cite as: 516 U. S. 479 (1996)
Opinion of the Court

has provided in the analogous, but not parallel, provisions of
CERCLA is telling. CERCLA was passed several years
after RCRA went into effect, and it is designed to address
many of the same toxic waste problems that inspired the
passage of RCRA. Compare 42 U. S. C. § 6903(5) (RCRA
definition of "hazardous waste") and § 6903(27) (RCRA
definition of "solid waste") with § 9601(14) (CERCLA provision incorporating certain "hazardous substance[s]," but
specifically excluding petroleum). CERCLA differs markedly from RCRA, however, in the remedies it provides.
CERCLA's citizen suit provision mimics § 6972(a) in providing district courts with the authority "to order such
action as may be necessary to correct the violation" of
any CERCLA standard or regulation. 42 U. S. C. § 9659(c).
But CERCLA expressly permits the Government to recover
"all costs of removal or remedial action," §9607(a)(4)(A), and
it expressly permits the recovery of any "necessary costs of
response, incurred by any ... person consistent with the
national contingency plan," § 9607(a)(4)(B). CERCLA also
provides that "[a]ny person may seek contribution from any
other person who is liable or potentially liable" for these
response costs. See § 9613(f)(1). Congress thus demonstrated in CERCLA that it knew how to provide for the
recovery of cleanup costs, and that the language used to
define the remedies under RCRA does not provide that
remedy.
That RCRA's citizen suit provision was not intended to
provide a remedy for past cleanup costs is further apparent
from the harm at which it is directed. Section 6972(a)(1)(B)
permits a private party to bring suit only upon a showing
that the solid or hazardous waste at issue "may present an
imminent and substantial endangerment to health or the environment." The meaning of this timing restriction is plain:
An endangerment can only be "imminent" if it "threaten[s]
to occur immediately," Webster's New International Dictionary of English Language 1245 (2d ed. 1934), and the refer-

MEGHRIG v. KFC WESTERN, INC.
Opinion of the Court

ence to waste which "may present" imminent harm quite
clearly excludes waste that no longer presents such a danger.
As the Ninth Circuit itself intimated in Price v. United
States Navy, 39 F. 3d 1011, 1019 (1994), this language "implies that there must be a threat which is present now, although the impact of the threat may not be felt until later."
It follows that § 6972(a) was designed to provide a remedy
that ameliorates present or obviates the risk of future "imminent" harms, not a remedy that compensates for past
cleanup efforts. Cf. §6902(b) (national policy behind RCRA
is "to minimize the present and future threat to human
health and the environment").
Other aspects of RCRA's enforcement scheme strongly
support this conclusion. Unlike CERCLA, RCRA contains
no statute of limitations, compare § 9613(g)(2) (limitations
period in suits under CERCLA § 9607), and it does not require a showing that the response costs being sought are
reasonable, compare §§ 9607(a)(4)(A) and (B) (costs recovered
under CERCLA must be "consistent with the national
contingency plan"). If Congress had intended §6972(a) to
function as a cost-recovery mechanism, the absence of these
provisions would be striking. Moreover, with one limited
exception, see Hallstrom v. Tillamook County, 493 U. S. 20,
26-27 (1989) (noting exception to notice requirement "when
there is a danger that hazardous waste will be discharged"),
a private party may not bring suit under § 6972(a)(1)(B) without first giving 90 days' notice to the Administrator of the
EPA, to "the State in which the alleged endangerment may
occur," and to potential defendants, see §§ 6972(b)(2)(A)(i)(iii). And no citizen suit can proceed if either the EPA or
the State has commenced, and is diligently prosecuting, a
separate enforcement action, see §§6972(b)(2)(B) and (C).
Therefore, if RCRA were designed to compensate private
parties for their past cleanup efforts, it would be a wholly
irrational mechanism for doing so. Those parties with insubstantial problems, problems that neither the State nor

Cite as: 516 U. S. 479 (1996)
Opinion of the Court

the Federal Government feel compelled to address, could
recover their response costs, whereas those parties whose
waste problems were sufficiently severe as to attract the
attention of Government officials would be left without a
recovery.
Though it agrees that KFC's complaint is defective for failing properly to allege an "imminent and substantial endangerment," the Government (as amicus) nonetheless joins
KFC in arguing that § 6972(a) does not in all circumstances
preclude an award of past cleanup costs. See Brief for
United States as Amicus Curiae 22-28. The Government
posits a situation in which suit is properly brought while the
waste at issue continues to pose an imminent endangerment,
and suggests that the plaintiff in such a case could seek equitable restitution of money previously spent on cleanup efforts. Echoing a similar argument made by KFC, see Brief
for Respondent 11-19, the Government does not rely on the
remedies expressly provided in § 6972(a), but rather cites a
line of cases holding that district courts retain inherent authority to award any equitable remedy that is not expressly
taken away from them by Congress. See, e. g., Porter v.
WarnerHolding Co., 328 U. S. 395 (1946); Wyandotte Transp.
Co. v. United States, 389 U. S. 191 (1967); Hecht Co. v. Bowles,
321 U. S. 321 (1944).
RCRA does not prevent a private party from recovering
its cleanup costs under other federal or state laws, see
§ 6972(f) (preserving remedies under statutory and common
law), but the limited remedies described in § 6972(a), along
with the stark differences between the language of that section and the cost recovery provisions of CERCLA, amply
demonstrate that Congress did not intend for a private citizen to be able to undertake a cleanup and then proceed to
recover its costs under RCRA. As we explained in Middlesex County Sewerage Authority v. National Sea Clammers
Assn., 453 U. S. 1, 14 (1981), where Congress has provided
"elaborate enforcement provisions" for remedying the viola-

MEGHRIG v. KFC WESTERN, INC.
Opinion of the Court

tion of a federal statute, as Congress has done with RCRA
and CERCLA, "it cannot be assumed that Congress intended to authorize by implication additional judicial remedies for private citizens suing under" the statute. "'[I]t is
an elemental canon of statutory construction that where a
statute expressly provides a particular remedy or remedies,
a court must be chary of reading others into it."' Id., at
14-15 (quoting Transamerica Mortgage Advisors, Inc. v.
Lewis, 444 U. S. 11, 19 (1979)).
Without considering whether a private party could seek to
obtain an injunction requiring another party to pay cleanup
costs which arise after a RCRA citizen suit has been properly commenced, cf. United States v. Price, 688 F. 2d 204,
211-213 (CA3 1982) (requiring funding of a diagnostic study
is an appropriate form of relief in a suit brought by the Administrator under § 6973), or otherwise recover cleanup costs
paid out after the invocation of RCRA's statutory process,
we agree with the Meghrigs that a private party cannot recover the cost of a past cleanup effort under RCRA, and that
KFC's complaint is defective for the reasons stated by the
District Court. Section 6972(a) does not contemplate the
award of past cleanup costs, and §6972(a)(1)(B) permits a private party to bring suit only upon an allegation that the contaminated site presently poses an "imminent and substantial
endangerment to health or the environment," and not upon
an allegation that it posed such an endangerment at some
time in the past. The judgment of the Ninth Circuit is
reversed.
It is so ordered.

