OCTOBER TERM, 1995
Syllabus

STUTSON v. UNITED STATES
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED
STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE ELEVENTH CIRCUIT
No. 94-8988. Decided January 8, 1996
The District Court held that petitioner Stutson's untimely appeal from his
federal conviction and prison sentence was not the result of excusable
neglect within the meaning of Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 4(b)
because his lawyer's office mailed his notice of appeal so that it arrived
one working day late and at the Court of Appeals rather than at the
District Court. The court's opinion did not advert to this Court's holding in Pioneer Investment Services Co. v. Brunswick Associates Ltd.
Partnership,507 U. S. 380, that, in some circumstances, a party's inadvertent failure to file a proof of claim in a timely manner in bankruptcy
proceedings is excusable neglect under the bankruptcy rules. On appeal, the Government argued that Pioneer did not apply to the Rule
4(b) criminal appeal context, and the Eleventh Circuit dismissed the
appeal without hearing oral argument or writing an opinion. In response to Stutson's certiorari petition, the Government has reversed its
position, adopting the view of six Courts of Appeals that the Pioneer
standard applies in Rule 4 cases.
Hel& Using the analysis set forth in Lawrence v. Chater,ante, p. 163 (per
curiam), the particularities of this case merit an order granting the
petition for certiorari, vacating the judgment below, and remanding the
case (GVR). There appears to be a reasonable probability that the
Eleventh Circuit will reach a different conclusion on remand, and the
equities clearly favor a GVR order. The exceptional combination of
circumstances here-the Government has repudiated the position that
it advanced below; the only opinion below did not consider the import
of a recent Supreme Court precedent which both parties now agree
applies; the Eleventh Circuit summarily affirmed that decision; all six
Courts of Appeals that have addressed the applicability of Pioneerhave
concluded that it applies to Rule 4 cases; and Stutson is in jail having,
through no fault of his own, had no plenary consideration of his appealpresents ample justification for the order. Here, as in Lawrence, a
GVR order guarantees Stutson full and fair consideration of his rights
in light of all pertinent considerations, and is also satisfactory to the
Government. The order both promotes fairness and respects the Eleventh Circuit's dignity by enabling it to consider potentially relevant decisions and arguments that were not previously before it.
Certiorari granted; vacated and remanded.

STUTSON v. UNITED STATES
Per Curiam
PER CURIAM.

Our per curiam opinion issued today in a civil case, Lawrence v. Chater, ante, p. 163; contains a general discussion
of the considerations that properly influence this Court in
deciding whether to grant a petition for certiorari, vacate
the judgment below, and remand the case (GVR) for further
consideration in light of potentially pertinent matters which
it appears that the lower court may not have considered.
Here, we apply that analysis to a criminal case, again finding
that the particularities of the case before us merit a GVR.
Stutson, the petitioner in this case, is currently serving a
federal prison sentence of 292 months for cocaine possession.
He has had no appellate review of his legal arguments
against conviction and sentence. The District Court held
that his appeal was untimely and that the untimeliness was
not the result of "excusable neglect" within the meaning of
Rule 4(b) of the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure, because his lawyer's office mailed his notice of appeal so that
it arrived one working day late for the 10-day deadline, and
at the Court of Appeals, when it should have been sent to
the District Court. The District Court's opinion did not
advert to our decision in PioneerInvestment Services Co. v.
Brunswick Associates Ltd. Partnership,507 U. S. 380 (1993),
rendered one day before Stutson's brief was due in the District Court and not cited in the briefs before that court. In
Pioneer,we held that a party could in some circumstances
rely on his attorney's inadvertent failure to fie a proof of
claim in a timely manner in bankruptcy proceedings as "excusable neglect" under the bankruptcy rules.
Stutson appealed the District Court's ruling. In their
briefs to the Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit, the
parties disputed the applicability of Pioneer'sliberal understanding of "excusable neglect" to the Rule 4(b) criminal
appeal context, the Government contending that it applied
only in bankruptcy cases. The Court of Appeals affirmed
the District Court and dismissed Stutson's appeal without

Cite as: 516 U. S. 193 (1996)

Per Curiam

hearing oral argument or writing an opinion. Now, in his
response to Stutson's petition for certiorari, the Solicitor
General has reversed the Government's position. This
change of position follows the unanimous view of the six
Courts of Appeals that, unlike the Eleventh Circuit in
this case, have expressly addressed this new and important
issue, and have held that the Pioneer standard applies in
Rule 4 cases. See United States v. Clark, 51 F. 3d 42, 44
(CA5 1995) (Rule 4(b)); United States v. Hooper,9 F. 3d 257,
259 (CA2 1993) (same); Chanute v. Williams Natural Gas
Co., 31 F. 3d 1041, 1045-1046 (CA10 1994) (Rule 4(a)(5)), cert.
denied, 513 U. S. 1191 (1995); Fink v. Union CentralLife Ins.
Co., 65 F. 3d 722 (CA8 1995) (same); Reynolds v. Wagner,
55 F. 3d 1426, 1429 (CA9) (same), cert. denied, post, p. 932;
Virella-Nieves v. Briggs & Stratton Corp., 53 F. 3d 451, 454,
n. 3 (CA1 1995) (same).*
In sum, this is a case where (1) the prevailing party below,
the Government, has now repudiated the legal position that
it advanced below; (2) the only opinion below did not consider
the import of a recent Supreme Court precedent that both
parties now agree applies; (3) the Court of Appeals summarily affirmed that decision; (4) all six Courts of Appeals
that have addressed the applicability of the Supreme Court
decision that the District Court did not apply in this case
have concluded that it applies to Rule 4 cases; and (5) the
petitioner is in jail having, through no fault of his own, had
no plenary consideration of his appeal. While "we 'should
[not] mechanically accept any suggestion from the Solicitor
General that a decision rendered in favor of the Government
by a United States Court of Appeals was in error,"' Lawrence, ante, at 171 (quoting Mariscal v. United States, 449
U. S. 405, 406 (1981) (REHNQUIST, J., dissenting)), this excep*Clark, Fink, Reynolds, and Virella-Nieves were decided after the

Court of Appeals in this case denied Stutson's petition for rehearing.
Chanute and Hooper were decided after the District Court's decision in
this case but before that of the Court of Appeals.

STUTSON v. UNITED STATES
Per Curiam

tional combination of circumstances presents ample justification for a GVR order. It appears to us that there is at
least a reasonable probability that the Court of Appeals will
reach a different conclusion on remand, and the equities
clearly favor a GVR order.
If the Court of Appeals here, in its summary affirmance,
did not rely on the Government's primary argument and the
lower court's basic premise-that Pioneer did not apply-it
does not seem to us that we place an excessive burden on it,
relative to Stutson's liberty and due process interests, by
inviting it to clarify its ambiguous ruling. A contrary approach would risk effectively immunizing summary dispositions by courts of appeals from our review, since it is rare
that their basis for decision is entirely unambiguous. See
Lawrence, ante, at 170 (discussing Netherlandv. Tuggle, 515
U. S. 951 (1995)). If, on the other hand, the Court of Appeals did not fully consider the applicability of Pioneer, or if
it concluded that Pioneer does not apply under Rule 4, it
might well conclude that while "[tihe law is the law," ante,
at 184 (SCALIA, J., dissenting), the combination of the Government's change of position and the subsequent contrary
decisions of four other Courts of Appeals shed light on the
law applicable to this case. If it continues to conclude that
Pioneer does not apply, it will be useful for us to have the
benefit of its views so that we may resolve the resulting conflict between the Circuits.
Finally, it is not insignificant that this is a criminal case.
When a litigant is subject to the continuing coercive power
of the Government in the form of imprisonment, our legal
traditions reflect a certain solicitude for his rights, to which
the important public interests in judicial efficiency and finality must occasionally be accommodated. We have previously refused to allow technicalities that caused no prejudice to the prosecution to preclude a remand under 28
U. S. C. ยง2106 (1988 ed.) "in the interests of justice." Wood

Cite as: 516 U. S. 193 (1996)

Per Curiam

v. Georgia, 450 U. S. 261, 265, n. 5 (1981). And procedural
accommodations to prisoners are a familiar aspect of our jurisprudence. See, e. g., 28 U. S. C. ยง2255 (1988 ed.) (habeas
review in spite of an adverse final appellate decision); Evitts
v. Lucey, 469 U. S. 887 (1985) (relief for ineffective assistance
of retained counsel on appeal); Schacht v. United States, 398
U. S. 58, 63-64 (1970) (unlike in civil cases, time limits for
petitions for certiorari in criminal cases are not jurisdictional). To the extent that the dissent suggests that it is
inconsistent with our "traditional practice," ante, at 178
(opinion of SCALIA, J.), to call upon a Court of Appeals to

reconsider its dismissal of a prisoner's appeal because his
lawyer filed it one day late, in circumstances where the Court
of Appeals' decision may have been premised on the assumption, unanimously rejected by other Courts of Appeals, that
more stringent rules as to filing deadlines apply to prisoners
than to creditors filing claims in a bankruptcy proceeding,
we must respectfully disagree.
Judicial efficiency and finality are important values, and
our GVR power should not be exercised for "[mere convenience," cf. Adams v. United States ex rel. McCann, 317 U. S.
269, 274 (1942). "But dry formalism should not sterilize
procedural resources which Congress has made available to
the federal courts." Ibid. In this case, as in Lawrence v.
Chater, a GVR order guarantees to the petitioner full and
fair consideration of his rights in light of all pertinent considerations, and is also satisfactory to the Government. In this
case, as in Lawrence, a GVR order both promotes fairness
and respects the dignity of the Court of Appeals by enabling
it to consider potentially relevant decisions and arguments
that were not previously before it.
Accordingly, the motion for leave to proceed informa pauperis and the petition for a writ of certiorari are granted.
The judgment is vacated and the case is remanded to the
United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit for

198

STUTSON v. UNITED STATES
Per Curiam

further consideration in light of PioneerInvestment Services
Co. v. Brunswick Associates Ltd. Partnership,507 U. S. 380
(1993).
[For concurring opinion of JUSTICE STEVENS, see ante,
p. 175; for dissenting opinion of THE CHIEF JUSTICE, see
ante, p. 176; for dissenting opinion of JUSTICE SCALIA, see
ante, p. 177.]

