REPORTS
OF

THE DECISIONS
OF THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES.
FEBRUARY TERM, 1819.

(cHANcERY.)

THE

TRUSTEES

ASSOCIATION

OF

THE

et al.

PHILADELPHIA

BAPTIST

V. HIART'S EXECUTORS.

In the year 1790, S. H., a citizen of Virginia, made his last will, containing the following bequest: "Item, what shall remain of my
military certificates at the time of my decease, both principal and
interest, I give and bequeath to The Baptist .Association, that for
ordinary meets at Philadelphia annually, which I allow to be a
perpetual furd for the education of youths of the Baptist denomination, who shall appear promising for the ministry, always giving a
preference to the descendants of my father's family." In 1792 tie
legislature of Virginia passed an act repealing all English statutes.
In 1795 the tesiator died. The Baptist Association in question had
existed as a regularly organized body for many years before the
date of his will; and in 1797 was incorporated by the legislature
of Pennsylvania, by the name of " The Trustees of the Philadelphia Baptist Association."
Held, that the Association, not being incorporated at the testator's
decease, could not take this trust as a society.
VOL. IV.

CASES IN THE SUPREME' COURT
That the bequest could not be taken by the individualswho composed
the Association at the death of the testator.
Baptist As- That there were no persons to whom this legacy, were it nnt a charity.
could be decreed.
sociation
1610.

S

V.

Havrt'sx'rs. And, that it could not be sustained, in this Court, as a charity.
Charitable bequests, where no legal interest is vested, and which are
too vague to be claimed by those for whom the beneficial interest
was intended, cannot be established by a Court of Equity, eitlher
exercising its ordinary jurisdiction, or enforcing the prerogative of
the king as parens patrice, independent of the statute 43 Eliz.
If, in England, the prerogative of the king, as parenspatritc, would,
independent of the statute of Elizabeth, extend to charitable bequests of this description: Qumre, How far this principle "ould
govern in the Cour's of the United States ?
Held, that it was unuecessary to enter into this inquiry, because it
could orly arise where the Attorney General is made a party.

IN the year 1790, Silas Hart, a citizen and resident of Virginia, made his last will in writing, which
contains the following bequest. " Item, what shall
remain of my military certificates at the time of my
decease, both principal and interest, I give and bequeath to the Baptist Association that for ordinary
meets at Philadelphia annually, which I allow to be
a perpetual fund for the education of youths of tlle
Baptist denomination, who shall appear promising for
the ministry, always giving a preference to the descendants of my father's family." In 1792 the
legislature of Virginia passed an act, repealing all
English statutes, including that of the 48 Eliz. c. 4.
In the year 1795 the testator died. . The Baptist
Association, which met annually at Philadelphia, had
existed as a regularly organized body for many years
before the date of this will, and was composed of
the clergy of several Baptist churches of different
States, and of an annual deputation of laymen from

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the same churches.

It was not incorporated until the *819.

year 1797, when it received a charter from the legis- Baptist
"'

As--

lature of Pennsylvania, incorporating it by the name

sociatiou

of " The Trustecs of the Philadelphia Baptist Asso-

IHart'xI:,.

ciation." The executors having refused to pay the,
legacy, this suit was instituted in the Circuit Court
for the district of Virginia, by the corporation, and
by those individuals who were members of the Association at the death of the testator. On the trial of
the cause, the judges of that Court were divided in
opinion on the question, whether the plaintiffs were
capable of taking under this will ? Which point was.,

therefore, certified to this Court.
The Attorney General, for the plaintiffs, argued,
that the peculiar law of charitable bequests did not
originate in the statute of the 43d Eliz., which was
repealed in Virginia before the death of the testator.
If lands had been conveyed in trust, previous to the
statute, for such purposes as are expressed in this
will, the devise would have been held good at law:
and, consequently, the court of chancery would have
enforced the trust, in virtue of its general equity powers, independent of that statute. The statute does
not profess to give any validity to devises, or legacies,

of any description, not before valid; but only furnishes a new and more convenient mode for discovering and enforcing them; but the case before the
court is such as requires the interposition only of
the ordinary powers of a court of equity. Devises
equally vague and indefinite, have been sustaiied in
courts of common law. before the statute of Eliza-

Ftb. 25th,

CASES INNTHE SUPREME COURT

beth, and. would, aforliori, have been supported in
courts of equity.a And the Court of Chancery, exBaptist Association
ercising the prerogative of the king as parenspatricv,
1819.

mart',x'rs. has been. constantly in the habit of establishing charitable bequests of this nature. " In like manner,"
says Lord Chancellor Macclesfield, "in the case of
charity, the king, pro bono publico, has an original
right to superintend the care thereof, so that, abstracted from the statute of Eliz. relating to charitable
uses, and antecedent to it, as well as since, it has been
every day's practice to file informations in Chancery,
in the Attorney General's name, for the establishment
of charities.'" So also, Lord Keeper Henly says,
"and I take the uniform rule of this court, before,
at,and after the statute of Elizabeth, to have been,
that where the uses are charitable, and the person
has in himself full power to convey, the court will aid
a defective conveyance to such uses. Thus, though
devises to corporations were void under statute Hen.
8., yet they were always considered as good in equity,
if given to charitable uses."o The powers of the
Court of Chancery over these subjects, are derived
from,and exercised according to the civil lawA Lord
Thurlow says, " the cases have proceeded upon notions adopted from the Roman and civil law, which
are very favourable to charities, that legacies given to
public uses, not ascertained, shall be applied to some.
a
b
e
d

Porter's ease, 1 Co. Rep. 22. b. Plowd. 522.
Eyre v. The Countess of Shaftsbury. 2 P. Wins. 119.
Case of Christ's College, Cambridge, 1 Sir W. Bl. 91.
3.B1. Com. 476. White.vi White, I Bro. Ch. Cas. 15.

Moggridge v. Thackwell, 7 Ves. 36.

OF THE UNITED STATE5.

proper object T " By that law, bequests for'charita1819.
ble purposes, ad- pios usos,--are not void for uncer- Baptist
Asa
tainty.' 'But, even supposing all the powers of the sociation
V.
English Court of Chancery over charities to have Hart'sEx'ra.
been originally derived froui the statute of Elizabeth,
still it does not follow, that the courts of the United
States have not all the powers which the English
courts of equity possessed, when this country was
separated from the Bri.ish empire. The chancery
system originated in varioes sources ; in the peculiar
jurisprudence of the court, which may be denominated its common law ; in statutes ; and in the authority
of the Chancellor, as keeper of the king's
"onscience.
It is difficult to find any chancery decisions wholly
purified from the influence of statutory provisions'
The grant of equity powers in the constitution, to tii
national judiciary, extends " to all cases in equity."
It is not limited to those cases which arise under the
ordinary jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery. This
is not a question of local law, nor can the equity jurisdiction of the United States' courts depend upon
the enactment or repeal of loeal statutes. This court,
has already determined, that the remedies in the court
of the United States, in equity, are to be, not according to the practice of State courts, but according to the
principles of equity as known and practised in that
pountry from which we derive a knowledge of those
principles.. In England, this bequest would, unquestionably, be sustained. The Association, which was
i White v. White, 1 Bro., h. Cas. 15.
b Swinb. part 1. sec. 16. Part'7.sec. 8.
Campbell v. ,Robinson, 3 Wheat. 212.'

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1819.
"

Baptist Association
V.
Hart'sEx'rs.

the object of the testator's bounty, though unincorporated at the time, was certainly as definite a body as the
C6sixty pious ejected ministers," in one case,a or "the

charitable collections for poor dissenting ministers
living in any county in England," in another.' Nor
was it necessary that they should be incorporated, in
order to take. A devise by an impropriator, directly
"to one who served the cure, and all who should serve
it after him," &c. has been carried into effect.c

So, if

the devise be to a charitable use, though the object be
not in esse, and though it depend on the will of the
crown, whether it shall ever be called into existence,
equity will establishit.d

Mr. Leigh, contra, contended, that the Association
could not take the bequest, neither in their individual
nor in their collective capacity. Not as individuals; because the persons composing the Association were continually,. fluctuating, and were not designated, nor indeed known, at the time of the bequest. No personal benefit was intended to them.
The testator's intent was to constitute the Association,
in its collective capacity, trustee of the fund for this
charitable purpose; and whether the trust can be
carried into effect or not, they cannot take individua The Attorney General V. Baxter, 1 Ven. 248. Attorney
General v. Hughes, 2 Vern. 105.
b Walker v. Childs, .1mb., 524.
c Anon. 2 Vent. 349.
d Lady Downing's case, Amb. 592. Ayliff v. Dodd, 2 Ak.
328. The Attorney General v. Oglander, 3 Bro. Ch. Cas. 166,
The Attorney General v. Bowyer, 3 Ves. jun. 725.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ally to their own use." Nor can they so take in 1819.
their collective capacity, because not incorporated at Baptist As.
the time : and the subsequent incorporation does not ociation
.art'sEx'-.
help their case.' Therefore, this is to be regarded l
as a bequest to charitable uses, without the intervention of trustees to take the legal estate and fulfil the
uses. According to the law of Virginia, which must
govern in this case such a trust cannot be carried
into effect by any court in any mode. Had such a
case occurred in England, it is admitted that the
Court of Chancery would carry the trust into effect
by supplying legal and capable trustees to take and
hold the fund for the objects of the testator's charity;
or, if those objects were not designated in the testator's will with sufficient certainty, would execute it,
upon the doctrine of cypres, for objects ejusdem generis, according to a scheme digested by the master.
But the Court of Chancery in England exercises
such powers solely in virtue of the statute of the 46d
Eliz. All ancient precedents of the exercise of such
powers, to effect such charitable uses, are expressly
stated to be founded on that statute.' As all the
early decisions are founded on the statute, so the
more modern cases are founded on the authority of
the ancient; with this only extension of their principle, that although the statute merely provides that
a Morrice v. The Bishop of Durham, 9 Fes. 399. S. C. 10
Ves. 522.
b 8 Vin. .br. tit. Devise, M. pl. 1. Woodmore v. Woodroffe, Amb. 636.
c The Attorney General v. Rye, 2 Vern. 453. Rivett's
case, Moor, 890. Pigott v. Pearice, 2 Eq. Cas. Abr. 191. pl.
6.. The Attorney General v. Hickman, lb. 193. pl. 14.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

charitable donatiois shall be applied to such of the
~ charitable uses therein expressed, for which they
Baptist Association were appointed by the donors or founders, the Court
Hart'sEx'rs. of Chancery-has gone a step farther, and held upon
the equity of the statute, that where objects of charity are in any way pointed out, however vaguely
and indefinitely, the Court will apply the hind to
charitable uses of the same kind with those intended
by the donor, according to a scheme digested by the
Master." All the elementary writers and compilers.
concur in deducing the jurisdiction of the English
Court of Chancery over chdiritable bequests from
the statute of Eliz. ; tracing all the powers of the
Court, as a court of equity, over this subject, to
that source ; its liberality and favour toward charitable donations; its practice of supplyipg all tile
defects of conveyances to charitable uses; of substituting trustees where those named by the donor
fail before the vesting of the legal estate; and
of taking on itself the dxecution of the trust, where
incapable, or no, trustees are appointed by the
donors.' Indeed, no donation is considered in England as a donation to charitable uses, unless for
such uses as are enumerated in the statute of Eliz.,
or such as are analogous.c The very signification of
1819.:

a Barlis v. The Attorney General, 2 Attk. 239. White v.
White, 1 Bro. Ch..Cas. 12. Moggridge v. Thackwell, 3 Bro.
4M. Cas. 517. S. C. I Ves. Jun. 464. S. C. 7 Ves. 36.
. b 2 Bl. Com. 376. 2 Fonbl. Eq. 213. Roberts on Wills, 213,
214. 1 Bac. .Abr. tit. Ch. Uses. 5 Vin. Abr. same tit. I Burn's
Eccles. Law,.same tit.
c The Attorney General v. Hewer, 2 Vern. 387. Brown v.
Yeale, 7 Ves. 50. note c. M6rrice v. The Bishop of Durham,
9 Ves. 399. S. C. 10 Ves. 540.

OF THE UNITEDr STATES.

1819.
the Words charity and charitable use are derived from
'
that statute. In thecase last cited, Sir W. Grant said,
In this Court, the signification of charity is derived sociotion
pincipally from the statute of Elizabeth. Those Hat'aEz'6.
purposes are considered charitable which that statute
enumerates, or which by analogies are deemed within
its spirit -and intendment. M Lord Eldon, in rehearing the same case, confirms the doctrine. " I say,
vith the Master of tle Rolls, a cjuse has not yet been
ecided, in which the Court has executed a charitable
purpose, unless the will contains a description of that
which the law acknowledges to be a charitable purpose, or devotes the property to purposes of charity
in general.' 'In a previous case; Lord Loughborough had said, " It does not appear that the Court
before that period, (the 43d of Eliz.,) had cognizance
of informatious for the establishment of charities.
Prior to the time of Lord Ellesmere, as far as tradition in times immediately following goes, there were
no such informations, but they made out the case as
well as. they could at lawY1c The repeal of the
English statute of charitable uses by the legislature
of Virginia, must be considered as almost, if not entirely, repealing that whole head of equity. The effect of this repeal may be estimated by recurring to the
history of the system of equitable jurisprudence.
Every part of that system has been built up since the
43d year of Elizabeth, and there is not a single chancery case, touching charitable bequests, prior to the
a Mforrice v. The Bishop of Durham, 9 Ves. 399.
b S. C. 10. Ves. 540.

c The Attorney General v. Bowyer, 3 Ves..]un. 72.
2
VOL. IV.

.10

CASES IN THE. SUPREME COURT
is.9.

Baptist Association

statute of that year. The Court is then driven
ascertain either the common law method of effectc
ing chartble uses, or thejurisdiction of the English

Hart'sEx'rs.

Chancery, independent of thb statute.

Sto

Lord Lough-

borough says, that it had no jurisdiction whatever
of the matter before the statute, and that they made
out the case as well as they could at law; and he
instances certain cases."
The jurisdiction of the
Court of Chancery in England, abstracted from, and
independent of, the stature of the 43d Eliz., may be
inferred from the. course of the Court in cases where
the donors of charities, tailing to point out any object of charity, or designating improper, impolitic,
or illegal objects, the statute gives the Court no authority to direct the charity to any definite purpose.
In all such cases, the dispositiorl of the funds belongs to the king, as parenspatrie, and is made by
him under his sign manual. In Moggridge v. Thackwell,b Lord Eldon, after reviewing all the cases, (acknowledging that they conflicted with each other,
and that his own mind was perplexed with doub!s,)
came to this general conclusion, which he deemed
the most recencileable to authorities; that when the
execution of the trust for a charity is to be by a trus-.
tee with general, or some objects pointed out, there
the Court will take upon itself the execution of the
trust : but where there is a general indefinite purpose,
not fixing itself on any object, the.disposition is to be
made by the king's sign manual.
a Porter's Case, I Co. Rep. 23
AO Co. Rep. 1.
b7 Vrs. 36.

A due attention to
Sutton's Hospital Case,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1819.
the cases there collected by Lord Eldon, will show
'
that the first class of cases are those over which the Baptist
Association
statute of the 43d Eliz. gives the Court a jurisdiction,
V.
and which it will consequently exercise; and that the Hart'sEx'rs.
second class consists of those which belong to its jurisdiction, abstracted and independent of the statute,
and in which the disposition belongs to the king.5
So if the donation be to a charitable use, but one
which is deemed unlawful or impolitic, the disposition belongs to the king.' And were it not for the
statute, all charitable donations, whatever, would be
subject to the disposition of the king, as parenspatrie. It is true, there are some dicta, which at first
sight seem to support a different doctrine. Such is
that of Lord Keeper Henly, in the case of Christ's
College.c But this dictum is directly contradicted
by Lord Loughborough, in the Attorney General v.
Bowyer.d Lord Keeper Henly cites no authority for
this dictum; but Lord Chief Justice Wilmot having,
in the case of Downing College,' said something of
the same kind, cites the authority which, doubtless,
Lord Keeper Fe'nly had in his mind ; which is what
fell from Lord Macclesfield, in Eyre v. The Countess of Shaftsbury. " And in like manner, in 'case
of charity, the king, pro iono'publico, has an oria The Attorney General v. Siderfin, I Vern. 224. Fiser v.
Peacock, there cited. The Attorney. General v. Herrick,
,fmbl. 712.
6 The Attorney General v. Baxter, I Vern. 248. De Coita
v. De Pas, JLnb. 228. Cary v. Abbott, 7 Veg. 490.
c W. B. 91.
d 3 Ves.jun. 72C.
P Wilm, Rep. I

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

ginal right to superintend the care thereof; so that,
sabstracted from the statute of Elizabeth relating to
Bapitist As.
sociation
charitable uses, and antecedent to it, as well as
V.
Hart'SEx'rs. since, it has been every day's practice to file an
information :in Chancery in the name of the Attorney General for the establishment of charities.,d
Whence it appears, that the information which
might be filed in the attorney general's name, for the
establishment of charities, abstracted from, and independent of, the statute, related to such as depended
on the disposition of the king as parens patria.
Ti-s explanation is corroborated by what is said by
Lord Soiers, in the case of Lord Falkland v. Bertie.' Lord Thurlow's dictum, in White v. White,
that " the cases had proceeded on notions derived
from the Roman and civil law," cannot be construed
to extend to the entire adoption of the civil law on
charities. By the civil law, if a man make a will
containing a charitable bequest, and afterwards cancel
the will, the bequest to charity is not thereby revoked. It is otherwise by the law of England. So,
in case of a deficiency of assets, the civil law gave
a preference to charitable legacies ; but in the English Court of Chancery they abate in proportion."
The conclusion, then, is, that in every case of charity, wherein the English Court of Chancery has
not jurisdiction to direct the application of the
1819.

a P. Wins. 118, 119.
b 2 Vern. 342.
c 1 Bro. Ch. Cas. 15.
d The Attorney General v. Hudson, I Coxe's P. Wins. 675.

and note.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

charity, either by the words or the equity of the

ie19,

4ats
statute 43 Eliz., the disposition belongs to the king, ]Baptist

D

As-

as parens patrice, and the Court of Chancery is only sociation
resorted to in order to enforce his disposition. That Hart'sEz'rs.
statute being repealed in Virginia, and no similar one
enacted in that State, the disposition of all charitable
donations is in the parens patrize of Virginia. The
Courts of the United States cannot direct this charity, or carry it. into effect. It is the government of
Virginia which is the parens patite of that State.
At the revolution, all the rights of the crown devolved on the commonwealth; and still remain in
the commonwealth, except such as are delegated to
the United States by the national constitution. But
none of the rights that appertain to the State government, as parens patrize, are delegated to the United
States. Can this, or any other Court of the United
States, pretend to the care or guardianship of infants,
lunatics, and ideots ? If not, neither can they undertake the direction of a charity, which stands on
the same footing as belonging to that government
which is parenspatrie. Even, therefore, if it were
admitted that the Court of Chancery of Virginia
could carry this bequest to charitable uses into effect,
the Courts of the United States cannot. Another
objection to the jurisdiction of those courts is, that
the Attorney General (that is, of Virginia) representing the parens patri, must be made a party. But
a JMitf. Plead. 7. 93. Cooper's Plead. 219. Ason. 3 Akt.
?77. 2 Atk. 87. Monell v. Lawson, 5 Vi,,. Abr. it. Char.

Uies, lb. pl. 11.
432.

The Attorney General v. Hewett, 9 Ves.

CASES !N THE SUPREME COURT

to makethe Attorney Gctjrai of Virginia, that is,
Baptist As- the State of Virgaila, a party defendant, would be
sociation
contrary to the couistioition of the United States.
V.
9art'sEx'rs. There is a farther, and an insurmountable objection
to the jurisdiction of the United States' Courts in
1819.

cases of charity., where there is no trustee appointed,

or (which is tie saine thing) unascertainable and
incapable truste-es are appointed. If not the whole
jurisdiction of the English Court of Chancery, at
least so much of it as is abstracted from, and indepeade~nt of, the s~atute 43 Eliz., belongs neither to its
or,.ioary nor extracrIiin-.ry jurisdiction, but to the
Lord Chancellor personally, as delegate to The king.
But by the constitution and laws of the United
States, the only branch of the English, Chancery
jurisdiction which is vested in the Courts of the
United States, is the ordinary or equity jurisdiction
of the Court of Chancery in England. Finally
It is impossible to give effect to thischarity in any
mode.

Not only are the trustees uncertain and un-

ascertainable, but the objects of the charity are also
uncertain, and not ascertainable by this Court. The
very idea of the Court attemp i, g to execute the trust,
ey pres, and referring it to the Master to digest a

scheme for that purpose, is absurd and impmcticable.
The Attoruey General, in reply, insisted, that if i
were necessary to show the capacity of the plaintiffs as
trustees, it could be done. Id certum est quod certum
reddipotest: and the Court might direct the money
to be paid to those who constituted the Association at

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1s19.
ile time of the bequest. But this Association was
incorporated shortly after the death of the testator; Baptat Ai.
and it is sufficient to support the charity, that its ob- sociatian
jccts may be in esse. The first of the two cases, cited IHart'veLx'rs
to show that the devise must take effect at the time,
or not at all, was a devise of lands to the priestsof a
chantry or college in the church of A.; and there
were none such, neither chantry, college, nor priests.
But suppose there had been, as in the case now before
tile court, would their want of a corporate character
have defeated the devise? But this case is entirely
inapplicable. The objects designated did not exist
even under the description which the testator used.
Nor did they exist, at the time of the decision, so as

to present the question as to the efficacy of the devise

in that respect; and all that the court said upon this
subject, must be regarded as extrajudicial. The
whole question was on a devise of lands on the rigid
rules of the common law. The case of Widmoro
v. Woodroffe,b was a bequest of money to the corporation of Queen Anne's County to augment poor viearages, which was held to, be void by the statute of
Mortmain, as the corporation were bound by their
rules to lay out their donations in lands. It does not
touch the question, whether a devise of a charity
must take effect at the death of the testator, or not
at all. But if the court should think, that the Baptist Association were incapable of taking, as trustees,
at the death of the testator, and that there must be
some person then in esse, to hold the legal estate, the
S8 Vin. .qbr. Tit. Devise. H. pl.

1PArab. 636

CAS96$ IN TIlE SUPREME COVRT

executors will be considered, by a court of equity, ag
"pis As-.'
Atrustees, whether so named or not." So, also, the
Baptist
court will regard the heir as a trustee for the same
aociation
V.
Hart'sEx'rs. purpose.' The case of the Attorney General v,
Bowyer, was decided on this very principle. The
law had thrown the legal title on the heir, but he was
held responsible Ibr the intermediate profits in the
imputed character of a trustee. The position, that
the English Court of Chancery derives the jurisdiction now in question from the statute of Eiiz., is denied. The title of the act is, " Commissioners, authorized to inquire of misemployment of lands or
goods, given to hospitals,. &c which, by their orders,
shall be refoimed." The preamble recites, that
whereas lands, &c. had been theretofore given, limited, appointed, and assigned, to various objects which
are specified, which lands, &c. had not been employed " according to the charitable intent of the givers
and founders thereof, by reason of frauds, breaches of
trust, and negligence in those that should pay, deliver,
and employ the same." It is clear, from this preamble, that no new validity was intended to be given to,
these donations. Their previous validity is admitted; and the mischief was, that they had been defeated by the frauds, breaches of trust, and negligence of
those who should have paid them. Frauds and
breaches of trust Were, at this time, known heads of
the equitable jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery;
but the statute proceeds to provide a new remedy for
1819.

a I Bridg. Index, 761.
c 3 Ves. jun. 726.

b 2 Bridg. Index, 607.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the mischief announced in the preamble. This is .1819.
the appointment of commissioners, with powers to Baptist -As.
institute an inquisition to detect the frauds which had sociation
V.
been praotised ; authorizing the commissioners, coll Hart'sEVTs.
formably to the title of the act, to make orders to
carry tile intention' of the donor, into effect; and allowing the party injured by such orders, to complain
to the Chancellor for an alteration or reversal of such
orders. Even supposing the statute did profess to
confer on the Court of Chancery a new jurisdiction,
it is merely an appeflate jurisdition from the decrees
of the commissioners; and this appeal is given to
one party only,. he-who'is charged, with the fraud. So
that, it is neither an original jurisdiction, nor is it a
jurisdiction to enforce a charitabletrust. The eighth
and ninth sections of the act direct the Commissioners to certify their decrees into the high -Court of
Chancery of England, and the Chancery of the Pa-.
litinate of Lancaster, and direct the Chancellors to
-take such order for the due execution of the decrees
(of the commissioners), as to them shall seem fit and
convenient. This is not a power to make a decree,
but to execute the decrees made by the Commissioners. The 10th section reiterates the appellate power
of the Chancelldr, recognized by the Ist section.
The only principles the 10th. section prescribes for
the regulation of the Chancellor 6h these appeals,
are so far from being new to the court,, that they
have existed ever since its equitable jurisdiction commenced.-If, then, the 'jurisdiction of the Court of
-Chancery over charitable bequests, cannot be,derived
from the letter of the statute of Eliz., can it be sup
Vol. IV.

'3

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

ported from ancient adjudged cases. interpretative of
that statute? Even if it coul, this would be but a
1
Baptist Association frail support; because the Court of Chancery was
x'.'s. then in the infancy of its existence, ard grasping
,vart
1819.

at every, thing to enlarge that jurisdiction which
time and usage have since consecrated; and because
if its jurisdiction to- enforce a charity by original
bill, is to depend upon the statute, it has been shown
from the statute itself, that it cannot be sustained.
But the adjudged cases do not support the position,
that the jurisdiction of the Court over charities
is deriged from the statute. It is necessary, however, to distinguish between the two questions,
whether a particular charity is within the statute ?
and, whether the original jurisdiction of the Court
of Ciancery is derived from the statute ? The
first question properly arises, where the commissioners have acted, and the Court is reviewing
their decree in its appellate character. As the commissioners derive their whole authority from the
statute, and are therefore confined to the cases enumerated in it, the first question upon the threshold of
the appeal is, whether the case on which they have
acted, be within the statute. Of this description
are the cases cited on the other side, as being the
ancient cases, upon the authority of which the
modern cases have been decided. The cases of the
Attorney General v. Rye" and Rivett's Case,b are
expressly stated by the reporters to have come before
the Chancellor on exceptions to the orders of the
a 2 Pern. 453.

b Mfoor, 890.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

19

1819.
commissioners. Piggot v. Penrice,4 is given by the
editor -on the authority of another reporter.b On .Baptist Aslooking into the original report, it will be seen that sociation.
V.
the question of the statute was not involved in the
case as it stood- before the Chancellor. The only
questions before him were, 1st. Whether any estate
in lands passed to an executor by the words, " 1
make my niece Gore, since married to Sir Henry
Penrice, executrix of all my goods, lands, and chattels" ? and, 2dly. What writing would amount to a
revocation of a will ? At the end of the report there
is a note in these words: " Note, thp testatrix, by
her second will, gave part of these lands to charitable uses, and they were decreed at the rolls to be
good, as an appointment upon the act of parliament,
notwithstanding there was no revocation; but that
point was not now in question. " How this question
came before the Master of the Rolls does not appear; but all that is decided is, that the charity was
within the statute, which leaves the question of the
original jurisdiction of the Court over charities untouched. The last ancient case cited, is that of the
Attorney General v. Hickman. A testator . gave
his estate to B. and his heirs, &c. by'a will duly executed ; and by a codicil not attested by three witnesses, declared the use in these words: , I would
have the same employed for the encouraging such
non-conformist ministers as preach God's word, and
in places where the people are not able to allow them
a sufficient maintenance; and for encouraging the
a 2 Eq. Cas. .Abr. 191.
C lb.

b Gia. Eq. Rep. 137.
d 2 Eq. €as. Abr. 19.

CASES IN THE SUPREME'COURT

bringing dip some to the work of-the ministry who
are designed to labour in God's vineyard among the
Baptist AsThe particular method how to dispose
sociation " dissenters.
Hart'sEx'rs. of it, I prescribe not but leave to their discretion,
designing you (B.) to take advice of C. and D."
This bequest, analogous to that now before the
Court, though much more vague and general, was
confirmed ; and the money decreed to be distributed
immediately, and not made a perpetual charity. But
nothing is said of tie statute of Elizabeth, either in
the argument, or in the opinion 'of the Cobrt. The
question was, whether B., and his testamentary advisers, C. and D., having all died before the testator,
the Court could supply trustees. The cotsel who
contended for this power in the Court,, supported it,.
not by the statute, but by the general authority o(
the Court'; instancing a legacy bequeathed in trust,
and the death. of the trustee, which, in equity, would.
not defeat the bequest. The Court sustained its authority without assigning any particular ground ; and
it may, therefore, be fairly inferred, that the Court.
adopted the ground assumed in the argument. The
case is cited from a manuscript report, and another,
note of the, case, in the margin,, goes no farther than
to say, that it was considered as being within the description of the statute of Elizabeth, but does not
profess to found the power of the Court over the case
upon that statute.-Nor do the cases cited to show
that the power of the Court to give effect to a vague
devise by the rule of cy pres is founded upon the statute, support that position. In the case of Baylis v.
1819.1

OF TIE UNITED STATES.

The Attorney General,a 2001. were given under the
will of Mr. Church, "to the ward of Bread Street
according to Mr. -, his will." Lord Hardwicke,
after rejecting testimony to fill the blank, proceeds
thus: " Though the alderman an'd inhabitants of a
ward are not, in, point of law, a corporation, yet, as
they have made the Attorney General a party, in
order to support and sustain the charity, I can make
a decree that the money may, from time to time, be
disposed of in such charities as the alderman, for the
time being, and the principal inhabitants, shail think
the most beneficial to the ward." Nothing is said of
the statute; aiid -the circumstance of making the
Attorney General a party points rather to the exercise of the king's prerogative, as parens patting,
which is independent of the statute. In White v.
White,' the testator• bequeathed one moiety of the
residue of his personal estate to the Foundling,
and the other to the Lying-in Hospital, and if there
should be more than one of the latter, then to such of
them as his executors should appoint. The testator
struck out the name of his executor, and never appointed another. Lord Thurlow held that this was
no revocation of the legacy, and referred it to a master to which of the Lying-in hospitals it should be
paid; but he does not countenance the idea of the
power thus exercised by him being derived from. the
statute of Eliz. On the contrary, he refers it to notionsderived from the Roman and civil law. Moggridge v. Thackwell' was a gift of a residue to I.
a 2 .tik. 239.
r 3 Bro. QY. as. 517.

b I Bro. Ch. Cas. 12.

1819.
Baptist As.
sociation

Hart'sfx'rs.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Vaston, to such charitable uses as he should appoint;
" but recommending poor clergymen with largefamilies
Baptist Ais~eiation and good characters. I. V. died in the testator's lifeV.
Hart',vx'rs. time. The charity was sustained and executed by
the Court; but there is no allusion to the statute in
the opinion of Lord Eldon. He says, "Vaston, if
alive, could not claim this properiy for his own use.
All the rules, both of the civil and common law, would
repel him from taking the property in that way. This
reduces it to the common case of the death of a trustee,
which cannot defeat the effect of a legacy." The second report of the same case does not vary the ground
taken by the Court." In the report of the case on the
rehearing, all the cases are collated, yet nothing is
delivered at tie bar or from the bench referring the
power of the court to the statute of Eliz. Lord
Eldon, speaking -of former decisions, says, "In what
the doctrine (of cypres) originated, whether as supposed by Lord Thurlow, in White and White, in the
principles of the civil law as applied to charities, or in
the religious notions entertained in this country, I know
not.""° A strange doubt, if the doctrine originated in
the statute !-Nor are the elementary writers and
compilers understood as deducing the jurisdiction from
the statute. Blackstone, who is cited for this purpose,
is treating of a different subject in the passage of his
Commentaries referred to.' Having stated in a prq.
ceding page that corporations were excepted from the
statutes of wills of 32 Hen. VIII. c. 1., and 34 Hen.
VIII. c. 5., he says in the page cited, that the statute
1819.

".O"

a 1 Ves. jpun. 464.'

b 7 Ves. 36.

c Ib.69.

1 2 B1. Cor. 376.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

of 43 Eliz. c. 4. is considered as having repealed that
1819.
s
of Hen. VIII. so far as to admit a devise to a corpo- "
Baptist Asration for a charitable use; he then speaks of the li- sociation
beral construction which had been given to devises Hart'sEx'rs.
under this statute by force of the word appointment;
but does not even insinuate that it was. the origin of
the chancery jurisdictioh. All the other elementary
writers and compilers cited are equally remote from
proving the position assumed. Their remarks are directed to the liberal construction put upon the word
.appoint under the statute of Eliz.; but the principles
to be extracted fronf all the cases cited by them are
the principles of the civil law, by which the Court
had been guided antecedent to and independent of,
the statute. The-Attorney General v. Hever, which
is cited to prove that no donation is considered in
England as a charitable donation, unless for the uses
enumerated in tle statute, or for analagous uses, was
a devise to a school; and the Lord Keeper decided
that not being a free school, the charity was not within
the statute, and, consequently, the inhabitants had not
a right to sue in the name of the attorney general.
This is a very different position from that which the
case was cited to prove; and it is an unfounded position : for the statute authorizes no proceeding in the
name of the attorney general ; and it is admitted that
the attorney general might, and had, informed in the
name of the king as parens patrie, previous to, and
independent of, the statute. Brown v. Yeale is mer3ly stated in a note, and settles nothing.' Itis true, the
a. Vern..387.

6 7 Ves. 50. note, (e)

GASES IN TIE SUPREME COURT

statute .of Eliz., having 'enumerated charities, gave a
Baptist As- new technical name to a portion of the uses and trusts
recognized by the civil law. It is this idea which
sociation
V
.1819.

Hart'sEx'rs.

t&e Master of the Rolls pursues in Morrice V.The

Bishop of Durham.' The trust before the Court was
for such' objects of benevolence and libeiality, as her
executor in his own discretion should most approve of.
Sir W., Grant determined that this was not within
the description of charitable trusts under the statute;
that purposes of liberality and benevolence do not
necessarily mean the same as objects of charity.
-With regard to charities, he says, that it had been
-settled upon •authorities, which it was too late. to controvert, that they should not fail on account of their,
,,generality, bu.t that in some cases their particular
,:application should be directed by the king, and in.
others by the Court. But he does not say that the
king or the Court derived this power of direction from
'the statute., The statute islooked at, to see if thbequest be a, charity within it ; but the powers of control
and directionmh the king and the Court are derived from
the original respective authority of the one as patens
patriae, and of the other as a court of equity. It is admitted, by the clearest 'implication, that although the
bequest was not a charity within the statute, yet if any'
definite object had been indicated by the will f6r which
the money could have been decreed, it would have
been so decreed. On the 'rehearing of the same
case, Lord Eldon merely confirms the same principles.? But Lord Loughborough is supposed to have
a 9 Ires. -399.

, 10 Ves. 25.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

i819.
attributed the jurisdiction to the statute, in express
terms, in the case of the Attorney General v Bowyer." Baptist &aBut to understand his words correctly, it is neces- sociatior4
sary to observe, that the 43d of Elizabeth's reign, Hart'sEx'n.
was the year 1601, and that Lord Ellesmere received
the seals in 1603, the epoch of her decease, and of
the accession of James I. The point under Lord
Loughborough's consideration was the title to intermediate rents and profits, in the case of a trust to
take effect infuturo. He first considers the question
as to the legaliright, and introduces Porter's case,b and
that of the Sutton Hospitalc The case of, Porter,
he says, was upon a devise before the statute of wills,
(32 Hen. VIII. c. 1,) and before the statute of
uses, (27 Hen. VIII. c. 10.) and, consequently, before
the statute of Eliz. " It does not appear, that the
Court before that period had cognizance of informations for the, establishment of charities." At What
period ? Not the 43d Eliz., as has been contended;
but either the period of the devise, which was in the
32d of Hen. VIII., or of the decision, which was
in 'the 34th of Elizabeth. The Chancellor proceeds,
44Prior to the time of Lord Ellesmere, as far as the
tradition in times immediately following goes, there
was no such information as that upon which I am
now sitting, but they made out the case as well as
they could at law." The phrase," prior to the time
of Lord Ellesmere," cannot be considered as equivalent to prior to the 43d of Eliz. ; for there is no
coincidence in point of time. The idea is singularly
expressed, if he meant to deduce the practice and au,
a 3 Yes. 726,
VOL. IV.

b I Co. Rep. 22. b.
4

cl 10 Co. Rep. 1

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

thority of informations from the statute of the 43d
of Elizabeth. All that he really meant Was to
Baptist Association affirm, that the practice of proceeding on informations
KaroE'i ira.by the Attorney General grew up in the time of
Lord Ellesmere. But this position is contradicted
by Lord Keeper Henly,a by Lord Macclesfield,' by
Lord Sommers,c by Lord Thurlow;d and, finally, by
the admission on the opposite side, that the proceeding of the Attorney General, was as representing the
king in his character of parens patriev. The Chancellor next proceeds to establish the validity of these
devises at common law, and c'onsequently independent
of the statute; and coming to the exercise of the
equitable jurisdiction, he expressly founds it on the
general power of the Court over trusts. It results,
then, that by the civil law, devises to pious and public uses were liberally expounded, and not suffered to
fail by their uncertainty ; that the Ecclesiastical
Courts, and Courts of Equity, acting on ecclesiastical subjects, when called upon to take cognizance of
a devise to pious or public uses, exercised all the
powers before the statute which have been since exercised : that the statute of Eliz. came, and following up the principle of the civil law, made an enumeration of those gifts to pious and public uses, under the new name of charitable- uses; not to give
them ioew validity, but to discover them by inquisition,
and to effectuate them upon civil law principles.
After the statute, the new name Of charitableuses,
became the fashion of the Court; and the word ap1819.

a I W. B1. 911.
b 2 P. Wins. 119.

c 2 Vern. 342.
d 1 Bro. Ch. Cs. 15.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

pointment was extended to produce the same effect
whi:ch Swinburne had ascribed to the civil law before.

Baptist As-

It became unnecessary to look back beyond the sta-

sociatioaj
V.

tute for the exercise of power over a charitable use :
the case was brought within the statutory description, and if found within it, the constructive power
of the word appointment was brought to bear upon
it. -Whatever be the origin of the powers of the
Courtof Chancery in England, whether derived
rfrom the peculiar law of the Court itself, from statutes, or from the extraordinary jurisdiction of the
Chancellor, they are all vested in the Courts of the
United States, by the constitution giving to them jurisdiction of all suits in equity between citizens of different States. There is no necessity that the Attorney General of Virginia should be made a party, because that is only required where the objects of the
charity contravene the policy of the law; nor is it
necessary that the Court should superintend the execution.of the trust, since the trustees are appointed
by the testator; nor that the Court should refer it to
a Master to digest a scheme for its application, as the
objects are clearly designated in the will,

Hart'sEx'rs.

Mr. Chief Justice

MARSHALL

delivered the opinion

of the Court.

It was obviously the intentioi of the testator, that
the Association should take in its character as an Association ; and should, in that character, perform the
trust created by the will. The members composing
it must be perpetually changing ; but, however they
might change, it is " The Baptist Association that

1819.

eb

!2d,

1819.

UASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

for ordinary meets at Philadelphia annually," which
baptist As- is to take and manage the "perpetual fund" intendsociation ed to be created by this will. This Association is
V4
llart'sExrs. described with sufficient accuracy to be clearly understood ; but, not being incorporated, is incapable
of taking this trust as a society. Cban the bequest
be taken by the individuals who composed the Association at the death of the testator ?
The bequest
The Court is decidedly of opinion that it cannot.
be No private advantage is intended for
Could
take'n
iilbYnot th'6
them. Nothing
s
o
t
individuals
composed N
Who
the Asocia- was intended to pass to them but the trust; and that
they are not authorized to execute as individuals. It
tion.
1819,

i

''

is the Association for ever, not the individuals, who,
at the time of his death, 'might compose the Association, and their representatives, who are to manage
this " perpetual fund."
At the death of the testator, then, there were no
persons in existence who were capable of taking this
bequest.. Dpes the subsequent incorporation of the
Association give it this capacity ?
The rules of law compel the Court to answer this
the sbsequent incorpoThe bequest was intended
ration of the question in the negative,
Association did
not give it the for a society which was not at the time, and might
capa,
ity.f betaking this
bnever
be, capable of taking it. According to law,
kist,
it is gone for ever. ,The legacy is void; and the
property vests, if not otherwise disposed of by the
will, in the next of kin. A body. corporate afterwards created, had it even fitted the description of
the will, cannot devest this interest, and claim it for
their corporation.
There being no persons who can claim the right
to execute this trust, are there any who, upon the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

i189.
general principles of equity, can entitle themselves to
its benefits ? Are there any to whom this legacy, Baptist --A5sociation
were it not a charity, could be decreed ?
This, question will not admit of discussion. Those Hart'sEx'rs.
for whose ultimate benefit the -legacy was intended,. p There
who
'nons are.,o
are to be designated and selected by the trustees. It Coudentseitle
egacy,
thi
could not be intended for the education of all the
were it nota
•
youths of the Baptist denomination who were de- chrt.
signed for the ministry; nor for those who were the
descendents of his father, unless, in the opinion of.
the trustees, they should appear promising. These
trustees< being incapable of executing this trust, or
even of taking it on themselves, the selection can
never be made, nor the persons designated who might
take beneficially.
,lega;y
Though this question be answered in the negative, notThe
sustainable
inthis Court,
we must still inquire, whether the. character of this 'as
a charity.
legacy, as a charity) will entitle it to the protection of
this Court ?
That such a legacy would be sustained in England, cy cywol Iwol.
.e
-staind ilk
is admitted. But, it is contended for the executors,
the statute of England.
that it would be sustained in virtue of
the 43d of Elizabeth, or of the prerogative of the
crown, or of both ; and not in virtue of those rules
by which a Court of Equity, exercising its ordinary
powers, is governed. Should these propositions be
true, it is farther contended, that the statute of Elizabeth does not extend to the case, and that the equitable-jurisdiction of the Courts of the Union does not
extend to cases not within the ordinary powers of a
Court of Equity.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1819.
Baptist As-

sociation
Hart'sEx'rs.

On the part of the plaintiffs, it is contended, that
the peculiar law of charities, does not originate in the
statute of Elizabeth. Had lands been conveyed in
trust, previous to the statute, for such purposes as are
expressed in this will, the devise, it is said, would
have been good at law; and, of consequence, a
Court of Chancery would have enforced the trust in
virtue of its general powers. In support of this proposition, it has been said, that the statute of Elizabeth does not even profess to give any validity to
devises or legacies, of any description,, not before
good, but only furnishes a new and more convenient
mode for discovering and enforcing them ; and that
the royal prerogative Applies'to those cases only
where the objects of the trust are efitirely indefinite;
as a bequest generally to charity, oi to the poor.
It is certainly true, that the statute does not, in
terms, profess to give validity to 'bequests acknowled ged not before to have been valid. It is also true,
that it seems to proceed on the idea that the trusts it
is intended to enforce, ought, in conscience,'independent of the statute, to be carried into execution.
It-is, however, not to be denied, that if, at the"
time, no remedy existed in any of the cases described, the -statute gives one" A brief analysis of
the act will support this proposition.
It authorizeg the Chancellor to appoint commissioners to inquire of all gifts, &c. recited in the act;
of the abuses, &c. of such gifts, &c. ; and upon such
inquiry to make such order as that the articles given,
&c. may be duly and faithfully employed, to and
for ,the charitable uses and intents, before, rehearsed

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1sio..respectively, for which they were given, &c. The
statute then proceeds, " which orders, judgments, Baptist Asand decrees, not being contrary or repugnant to sociatiotk
V.
the orders, statutes, or decrees, of the donors, or Hart'aEx'rn.
founders, shall, by the authority of this present parliament, stand firm and good according to the-tenor
and purport thereof, and shall'be -executed accordingly, until the same shall be undone 'or altered .by
the Lord Chancellor of England," &q.
Subsequent sections of the act direct these decrees,
&c. to be certified to the Chancellor, who is to take
such order for their execution as to him shall seem
proper ; and, also, give to any person aggrieved the
right to apply to Chancery for redress.
The Engish
that
if any gifts are enume- statute,
It is not to be denied,
'
'
43d of
Elizabeth,
were not previously valid,
rated in this statute, which~gives
validity
statute tosomedevises
~to"
charitable
or for which no previous remedy existed, the
uses, which
makes them valid, and furnishes a remedy.
were wotvalid,
That there were such gifts, and that the
, statute has independentef
that statute.

given them validity, has been repeatedly determined.
The books are full of cases, where conveyances to
charitable uses, which were void by the statute of
mortmain, or were, in other respects, so defective,
that, on general principles, nothing passed, have been
sustained under this statute. - If this statute restores
to its original capacity, a conveyance rendered void by
an act of the legislature, it will, of course, operate
with equal effect on any legal objection to the gift
which originates in any other manner, and which a
statute can remove.
The authorities to this point are numerous.

In the

case of the Attorney General, n behalf of St. John's

. 32

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

College in Cambridge v. Platt," the name of the cor-,
porate body was not fully expressed. This case was
Baptist Association referred by the Chancellor to the judges, who certiHuat' 'r8
. fled, that though, according to the general principles
of law, the devise was void ; yet it was good under
the statute of Elizabeth. This case is also reported
in Cases in Chancery, 267. where it is said, the
judges certified the devise to be void at law, but the
Chancellor decreed it good under the statute.
So, in Chancery Cases, 134. it was decided, that a
bequest to the parish of Great Creaton was good
under the statute. Though this case was not fully
nor clearly repbrted, enough appears to show that
this bequest was sustained only under the statute pf
Elizabeth. The objections to it were, that it was
void on general principles, the parish not being incorporated; and that it would not be decreed under the
statute, the proceedings not being before commissionters, but by. original bill. The Master of theRolls
ordered precedents to be produced ; and, on finding
one in which four judges had certified that a party
might, under the statute, proceed in chancery by
original bill, he directed the legacy to be paid. Could
this bequest have been sustained on doctrines applicable to charities independent of the statute, no question could have arisen concerning the rights to proceed by original bill.
In Collison's case,I the will made John Bruet and
others, " feoffees of a home, to keep it in reparation,
and to bestow the rest of the profits on reparation of
1819.

a Finch, 221.

b Hob. 136.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

certain highways."

On a reference by the Chancel-

lor, the judges declared, that "this case was within
the relief of the 43d of Elizabeth ; for, though the
devise were utterly void, yet it was within the words

1819.
Baptist As,
Botation

.Hajt'vx'r.

limited and appointed for charitable uses."
In these cases, it is expressly decided, that the bequests are void, independent of the statute, and good'
under it. It furnishes no inconsiderable additional
argument, that many of the gifts recited in the
43 Eliz., would not, in themselves, be considered as
charitable;' yet they are all governed by the same rule.
No dictum has been found -indicating an opinion
that the statute has no other effect, than to enable
the Chancellor to inquire, by commission, into cases
before cognizable in his Court by original bill. It
may, then, with confidence be stated, that whatever
doubts may exist in other points which have been
made in the cause, there is none in this : The statute
of the 43d of Eliz. certainly gave validity -to soma
devises to charitable uses, which were not valid, independent of that statute. Whether this legacy be
of that description, is a question of more difficulty. Charitable be.
The objection is, that the trust is void; and the .2e"ah,,erest is vested, and
"I trust so vague, that no are
description of the cestui• que
too which
vague
claimed
pierson can be found whose interest can be sustained. toby. bethose
for
whom theintebe:
The counsel for the plaintiff insists, that cases neficialrest was in.
was n.
equally vague have been sustained in Courts of corst
ofcr-tended,
cannot
be established
foytiori,
by
a
court of
mon law, before the statute; and would, a
eut, exer,dihave been sustained in Courts of equity. kle relies eti.,
nary juisdic.
Plowden,,522..
on
'and
case,
Porter's
on
ent of the staPorter's case is this: Nicholas Gibson, in the 32d tute 43EIiz.
a 1 Co. Rep. .2. b.
VOL., IV.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1819.
Baptist

Hen. VIII., devised a wharf and house to his wife,
condition that she should, on advice of learnAupon
As-

ed counsel, in all convenient speed after his decease,
Hart'sEx'rs. assure, give, and grant the said lands and tenements,
for the maintenance, for ever, of a free school the testator had erected, and, of alms men and alms women
attached to it The wife entered into the property,
and, instead of performing the condition, conveyed
it, in the 3d of Edw. VI., by a lease for forty years.
Afterwards, in the 34th of Eliz., the heir at law entered for a condition broken, and conveyed to the
queen. On the validity of this entry and conveyance the cause depended.
On the part of Porter, who claimed under the
lease, it was contended, that the use was against the
act of the 22d of Hen. VIII. c. 10. and, therefore,
void, on which the estate of the wife became absolute.
On the part of the queen, it was argued, 1st. That
the statute of Hen. VIII. avoided superstitious,
and not charitable uses. But if it extended to this,
still, that it made the use, and not the conveyance,
void. The devisee, there being no consideration,
would stand seized to the use of the heir. 2d. That
in case the devise is to the wife, on condition that she
would, by the advice of learned counsel, assure his
lands for the maintenance of the said free-School, and
alms men and alms women; this might be done
lawfully, by procuring the king's letters patent incorporating them, and, afterwards, a letter of license
to assure the lands to them
Upon these reasons the Court was of opinion, that
sociation

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1819.
the condition was broken, and that the entry of the
Baptist Af.w
heir was lawful.
sociatioa
posthe
concerning
arose
question
no
case
In this
sibility of enforcing the execution of the trust. It 'Hart'sEx'rV.
was not forbidden by law; and, therefore, the trustee might execute it. On failing so to do, the condition on which the estate was, given was broken, and
the heir might enter; but it is not suggested that the
cestui que trust had any remedy. An estate may be
granted on any condition which is not against law,
as that the grantee shall go to-Rome; and for breach
of that condition, the heir may enter, but there are
no means of compelling the journey to Rome. In
the argument of Porter's case, the only mode suggested for assuring to the school the benefit intended,
is by an act of incorporation, and a letter of license.
in considering this case, it seems impossible to resist the conviction, that Chancery could, then, afford
no remedy to the cestui que trust. It is not probable that those claiming the beneficial interest would
have waited, without an effort, from the 32d of Hen.
VIII. when the testator died, or, at any rate from the
3d of Edw. VI., when the condition was conclusively
broken by the execution of the lease until the 34th
of Eliz., and then have resorted to the circuitous
mode of making an arrangement with tile heir at
law, and procuring a conveyance from him to the
queen, on whose will the charity would still depend,
if a plain and certain remedy had existed, by a di-,
rect application to the Chancellor.
If, as there is much reason to believe, from this,
and from many other cases of the same character

CASES IN THE SUPREME. COURT

1819.

which were decided at law anterior to the statute of
the remedy in Chancery-was not then afford-

Baptist As-Eliz.,

ed, it would go far in deciding the present question;
Hart'SX 'rs it would give much countenance to the opinion, that
the original interference of Chancery in charities,
where the cestui que trust bad not a vested equitable
interest which might be asserted in a Court of Equity,
was founded on that statute, and still depends on it.
These cases, and the idea they suggest, that at
the time Chancery afforded~no remedy for the aggrieved, account for the passage of the statute of the
43d of Elizabeth, and for its language, more satisfactorily than any oiher cause which can be assigned.
If, as has been contended, charitable trusts; however vague, could then, as now, have been enforced
in Chancerywhy pass an act to enable the ,Cha.ncellor
to appoint commissioners to inquire concerning them,
and to make orders for their due execution, which
orders were to be revised, i.tablished, altered, or set
aside, by him ? If the Chancellor could accomplish
this, and was in the practice of accomplishing it in
virtue of the acknowledged powers and duties of his
office, to what, purpose pass the act? Those who
might suppose themselves interested in these donations, would be the persons to bring the case before
the commissioners; and the same persons would have
brought it before the Chancellor, had the law afforded them the means of doing so. The idea, that the
commissioners were substituted for the Court as the
means of obtaining intelligence .not otherwise attainable, or of removing inconveniences in prosecuting
claims by original bill which had been found so
soviation

OF THE UNITED STATES.

great as to obstruct the course of justice, is not war-

1819.

ranted. by the •language of the act, and is disproved

a-stAAs
Bpaptist

by the efforts which were soon made, and which soon iociation
prevailed, to proceed by way of original.
Hav'r
The statute recites,- that whereas lands, money,.
&c. had been heretofore given, &c. some for the relief of aged, impotent, and poor people, &c. which
lands, &c. " nevertheless, have not been employed
according to the charitable intent of the givers and
founders thereof, by reason of"-what ? of the difficulty of discovering that such trusts had been created .
or of the expensiveness and inconvenience of the
existing remedy'? No. " By reason of frauds,
breaches of trust, and negligence in those that should
pay, deliver, and employ the same." That is by'reason of fraud, breach of trust, and negligence of the
trustees. The statute then proceeds to give a remedy for these frauds, breaches of trust, and negligences, Their existence was known when the act
passed, and was the motive-for passing it. No negligence or fraud is charged on the Court, its officers,
or the objects of the charity; only on the trustees.
Had there been an existing remedy for their frauds
and negligences, they could not, when known, have
escaped that remedy.
There seem to have been two motives, and they
were adequate motives, for enacting this statute:
The first, and greatest, was to give a direct remedy to
the party aggrieved, who, where the trust was vague,
had no certain and safe remedy for the injury sustained; who might have been completely defeated
by any compromise between the heir of the feoffor

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

and the, trustee; and who had no means of cornp
Apelling the heir to perform the trust, should he enter
As.
Bapti'st
.sociation
for the -condition broken. The second, to remove
1819.

Hart'vx'rs. the doubts which existed, whether these charitable
donations were included within the previous prohibitory statutes.
We have no trace, in any book, of an attempt in
the Court of Chancery, at any time anterior to the
statute, to enforce one of these vague bequests to
charitable uses. If we have no reports of the decisions in Chancery at that early period, we have reports of decisions at' common law, which. notice
points referred by tle Chancellor to the judges. Immediately after the passags of the statute, we find,
that questions, on the validity of wills containing
charitable bequests, were propounded to, ind decided
by, the law judges. Collison's case was decided in
the 15th of James I., only seventeen years after the
passage of the act, and the devise was declared to be
void at law, but good under the'statute. Two years
prior to this, Griffith Flood's 'case, reported in Hobart, was propounded by the Court of Wards to the
judges ; and, in that case too, it was decided, that the
will was void at law, but good under the statute.
Had the Court of Chancery taken cognizance before
the statute, of devises and bequests to charitable uses,
which were void at law, similar questions must have
arisen, and would have been referred to the Courts
of law, whose decisions on them would be found in
the old reporters. Had it been 'settled before the
statute, that such devises were good, because the use
was charitable, these questions could not have arisen

OF THE UNITED STATES.

alterwards; or, had they arisen, would have been
differently treated.
Although the earliest decisions we have, trace the
peculiar law of charities to the statute of Elizabeth,
and although nothing is to be found in our books to
justify the opinion, that Courts of Chancery, in the
exercise of their ordinary jurisdiction, sustained, anterior to that statute, bequests for charitable uses,
which would have been void on principles applicable
to other trusts, there are some modern dicta in cases

39
1819.'
Baptist As-

sociation
Hart'sEx'ri
eCharitablebe-

no legal interis vested,
est
are
nd which
toovaguetobe
by
claimed
thosetorwhom
the beneficial
t
erestwasinin
cannot
tended,
be established
by a court of

enforequity, the
respecting prerogative, and where the proceedings' c~ie
eo
are on the part of the king, acting as parenspatrie, ing. aspavres
pendetoindthe
which have been much relied on at the bar, and statute 43d of
Elizabeth.
ought not to be overlooked by the Court.
"In
says,
Chancellor
the
In 2 Peere Will. 119.
like manner, in the case of charity, the king, pro
bono publico, has an original right to superintend the
care thereof; so that, abstracted from the statute of
Elizabeth relating to charitable uses, and antecedent
to it, as well as since, it has been every day's practice to file informations in chancery, in the Attorney
General's name, for the establishment of charities."
" This original right" of the crown, " to superintend the care" of charities, is no more than that
right of visitation, which is an acknowledged branch
of the prerogative, and is certainly not given by statute. The practice of filing an information in the
name of the Attorney General, if, indeed, such a
practice existed in those early times, might very well
grow out of this prerogative, and would by no
means prove, that, prior to the statute, the law respecting charities was what it has been since. These

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
181g.,

"'

Baptist Association

xartsE'r.x

words were uttered for the purpose of illustrating
the original power of the crown over the persons and
estates of infants, not with a-view to any legal distinction between a legacy to charitable and other
objects.
Lord Keeper Henly, in I Sir Win. Blackstone's
Reports, 91., says, " I take the uniform rule of this
Court before, at, and after the statute of Elizabeth,
to have been, that where the uses are charitable, and
the person has in himself full power to convey, the
Court will aid a defective conveyance to such uses.
Thus, the devises to corporations were void under
the statute of Hen. VIII. ; yet they were always
considered as good in equity, if given to charitable
uses.))

We think we cannot be mistaken when we say,
that no case was decided between the statute of
mortmain, passed in the reign of Hen. VIII., and
the statute of Elizabeth,' in which a devise to a corporation was held good. Such a decision would
have overturned principles uniformly acknowledged
in that Court. The cases of devises, in mortmain,
which have been held good, were decided since the
statute of Elizabeth, on the principle, that the latter
statute repeals the former so far as relates to charities.
The statute of Geo. If. has been uniformly construed to repeal, in part, the statute of Elizabeth, and
charitable devises comprehended in that act have,
ever since its passage, been declared void. On the
same reason, similar devises must, subsequent to the
statute of Henry VIII. and anterior to that of Elizabeth, have been also declared void. It is remarka-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ble that, in this very-case, the Lord Keeper declares

1819.

one of the charities to be void, because it is contrary Baptist Asto the statute of mortmain, passed in the reign of sociation
V.
Geo. It. All the respect we entertain for the Re- Hart'sEx'rm.

porter of this case, cannot prevent the opinion, that
the words of the Lord Keeper have been inaccurately
reported. If not, they were inconsiderately uttered.
The principles decided in this case are worthy ofattention: "Two questions," says the report, "arose,
Ist. Whether this was a conveyance to charitable uses
under the statute of Elizabeth, and therefore, to be
aided ly this court. 2d. Whether it fell within the
purview of the statute of mortmain, 9th of Geo. IL,
and was therefore a void disposition."
It is not even suggested that the defect of the conveyance could be remedied otherwise than by the
statute of Elizabeth. The Lord Keeper says, " the.
conveyance of the 22d of June, 1721, is admitted
to be defective, the use being limited to certain
officers of the corporation, and not to the corpo-'
rate body; and therefore there is a want of persons
to take in perpetual succession." (The very defect
in the conveyance under the consideration of this
court.)

"

The only doubt," continues the Lord

Keeper, " is, whether the Court should supply this
defect, for the benefit of the charity, under the statute
of Elizabeth."
It is impossible, we think, to understand this declaration, otherwise than as an express admission, that a
conveyance to officers, who compose the corporate
body, instead of the corporate body itself, or in other
words, a conveyance to any persons not incorporated
VOL. IV.

6

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

42

to take in succession, although for charitable purposes,
supported by the statute of EliBaptist As- would be void if not
sociation zabeth.
Hart'sEx'Vrs. After declaring the conveyance to be good, the
Lord Keeper proceeds: "The conveyance, therefore,
being established under the statute of Elizabeth, we
are next to consider how it is affected under the statute
of the 9th of Geo. II."
The whole opinion of the Judge, in this case, turns
upon the statute of Elizabeth. He expressly declares the conveyance to be sustained by that statute,
and in terms admits it to be defective without its aid.
The dictum, therefore, that before that statute, courts
were in the habit of aiding defective conveyances to
charitable uses, either contradicts his whole opinion
on the point before him, or is misreported. The probability is, that the Judge applied this dictum to cases
which occurre4, not to cases which were decided before the statute. This application of it would be supported by the authorities, and would accord with his
whole opinion in the case.
In the case of the Attorney General v. Bowyer,'
the Chancellor, speaking of a case which occurred
before the passage of the statute of wills, says, " It
does not appear that this Court, at that period, had
cognizance upon information for the establishment of
charities. Prior to the time of Lord Ellesmere, as far
as tradition i?) times immediately following goes,
there were no such informations as this on which I
am now sitting, but they made out the case as well
as they could by law."
1819.
'

a 3 Ves. Jun. 725.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Without attempting to reconcile these seemingly
1s9.
will proceed to inquire Baptist Ascontradictory dicta, the court
'
interest is vested, "Sociation
legal
no
where
whether charities,
and which are too vague to be claimed by those for Mat'sEx'rs.
whom the beneficial interest was intended, c6uld be
established by a court of equity, either exercising its
ordinary jurisdiction, or enforcing the prerogative of
the King as parens patrice, before the 43d of Elizabeth.
The general principle, that a vague legacy, the object of which is indefinite, cannot be established iii a
court of equity, is admitted. It follows, that he who
conteids that charities formed originally an exception
to the rule, must prove the proposition. There being
no reported cases on the point anterior to the statute
recours6 is had to elementary writers, or to the opinions given by judges of modern times.
No elementary writers sustain this exception as a
part of the law of England. It may be considered
as a part of the civil code, on which our proceedings
in chancery are said to be founded; but that code is
not otherwise a part of the law of England than as
it has been adopted and incorporated by a long course
of decisions. The whole doctrine of the civil law,
respecting charities, has certainly not been adopted.
For example: by the civil law, a legacy to a charity,
if there be a deficiency of assets, does not abate; by
the English law, it does abate. It is not, therefore, enough to show that, by the civil law; this legacy
would be valid. It is necibssary to go farther, and to
show, that this principle of the civil law has been ea-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

grafted into the jurisprudence of England, and been
B~aptist As- transplanted into the United States.
In White v: White, ° the testator had given a legacy
sociation
Hart'sEx 'rs. to the Lying-in -1ospital which his executor should
appoint, and afterwards struck out the name of the
executor. The legacy was established, and it was
referred to a Master to say to which Lying-in Hospital
it should be paid. In giving this opinion, Lord Thurlow said, "the cases have proceeded upon notions
adopted'from the Roman and civil law, which are
very favourable to charities, that legacies given to
public uses'not ascertained, shall be applied to some
proper object."
These expressions-apply, perhaps exclusively,to that
class of cases in which legacies given to one charity
have, since the statute of Elizabeth, been applied to
another; or, in which legacies given so vaguely as that
the object cannot be precisely defined, have been applied by the crown, or by the Court, acting in behalf
of the crown, to some charitable object of the same
kind. White v. White was itself a case of that description; and the words "legacies given to public
uses not ascertained," "applied to some proper object," seem to justify this construction. If this be
correct, the sentiment advanced by Lord Thurlow,
would amount to-nothing more than that the cases in
which this extended construction was given to the
statute of Elizabeth proceed upon notions adopted
from the'Roman and civil law.
Butif Lord Thurlow used this language under the
1819.

a I Bro. Ch. Cas.

15.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

impression that the whole doctrine of the English

1819.

Chancery, reJative to charities, was derived from the 3aptist Ascivil law, it will not be denied that his opinions, even sociation
when not on the very point decided, are entitled to great Hart'sEx'rq.
respect. Something like the same idea escaped Lord
Eldon in the case of Moggridge v. Thackwell.a Yet
upon .other occasions, different opinions have been advanced', with an explicitness which supports the idea,
that the Court of Chancery in England does not understand these dicta as they have been understood by the
counsel for the plaintiff. In the case of Morrice v. The
Bishop of Durham,b where the devise was to the Bishop, in trust, to dispose of the residue "to such objects of benevolence and liberality as he, in his own
discretion, should most approve," the bequest was
determined to be void, and the legacy decreed to the
next of kin. The. Master of the Rolls said, " I n this
court, the signification of charity is derived principally from the statute of Elizabeth. Those purposes are
considered charitable, which that statute enumerates,
or which, by analogies, are deemed within its spirit and
intendment." This case afterwards came before the
Chancellor, who affirmed the decree, andsaid, "I 'say
with the Master of the Rolls, a case has not yet been
decided, in which the court. has executed a charitable
purpose, unless the will contains a description of that
which the law acknowledges to be a charitable purpose, or devotes the property to purposes of charity
in general. TM
The reference made bythe Chancellor to the words
of the Master of the Rolls, whose language he adopts,
et 7 Ves. 36,

& 9 Ves. 399.

c 10 Ves. 540.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1819.
Baptist Association
V.

Hart'sEx'rs.

proves that he uses the term "1law" as synonymous
with "the statute of Elizabeth."
Afterwards, in the same case, speaking of a devise
to charity generally, the Chancellor says, "it is the
duty of the trustees, or of the crown, to apply the money to charity, in the sense which the determinations
have affixed to the word in this Court: viz. either such
charitable purposes as are expressed in the statute, or
to purposes analogous to those."
He adds, " charitable purposes, as used in this
Court, have been ascribed to many acts described in,
that statute, and'analggous to those, not because they
can with propriety be called charitable, but as that
denomination is, by the statute, given to all the purposes described.".
It has been also said that a devise to a charity generally is good, because the statute of Elizabeth uses
that term.
These quotations show that Lord Eldon, whatever
may have been the inclination of his mind when he
determined the case of Moggridge v. Thackwell, was,
on more mature consideration, decidedly of opinion,
that the doctrines of the Court of Chancery, peculiar
to charities, originated not in the civil law, but in the
statute of Elizabeth. This opinion is entitled to the
more respect, because it was given after an idea,
which might be supposed to conflict with it, had
been insinuated by Lord Thurlow, and in some degree followed by himself; it was given in a case which
required an investigation of the question; it was given,
too, without any allusion to the dicta uttered by Lord
Thurlow and himself; a circumstance which would

OF THE UNITED STATES.

47

1819.
scarcely have occurred, had he understood those dicta
"
It
as advancing opinions he was thep denying.
Baptist Asis the more to be respected, because it is sustained sociation
by all the decisions which took place, and all the opi- Hart' 'rs.
nions expressed by the judges soon after the passing
of the statute of Elizabeth. In 1 Ch. Cas. 134. a
devise to the Parish of Great Creaton, the Parish not
being a corporation, was held to be void independent
of the statute, but good under it. So, in the same
book, p. 267. on a devise to a corporation which was
misnamed, the Lord Keeper decreed the charity under the statute, though before the statute no such devise could have been sustained. The same point is
decreed in the same book, p. 195. and in many other
of the early cases. These decisions are totally incompatible with the idea that the principles on which
they turned were derived from the civil law.
There can be no doubt that the power of the crown
to superintend and enforce charities existed in very
early times; and there is much difficulty in marking
the extent of this branch of the royal prerogative before the statute. That it is a branch of the prerogative, and not a part of the ordinary power of the
Chancellor, is sufficiently certain. Blackstone, in
v. 3. p. 47. closes a long enumeration of the extraordinary powers of the Chancellor, with saying, "He
is the general guardian of all infants, idiots, lunatics;
and has the general superintendance of all charitable
uses in the kingdom ; and all this over and above the
vast and extensive jurisdiction which he exercises in
his judicial capacity in the Court of Chancery'" lit
the same volume, p. 487. hie says, "the king, as parens

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1819.
Baptist Association
Hart'sEx'rs.

patrce, has the general superintendance of all charities, which he exercises by the keeper of his conscience, the Chancellor ; and, therefore, whenever it is
necessary, the attorney general, at the relation of some
informant, files, ex officio, an information in the Court
of Chancery, to have the charity properly established."
The author of "A Treatise of Equity"' says, "so,
anciently in this realm, there were several things that
belonged to the king as parenspatria;,and fell under
the care and direction of this Court: as, charities,
infants, idiots, lunatics, &c." Cooper, in his chapter
on the jurisdiction of the Court, says, "the jurisdiction, however, in the three cases of infants, idiots or
lunatics, and charities, does not belong to the, Court
of Chancery as a court of equity, but as administering the prerogative and duties of the crown. " "
It would be waste of time to multiply authorities
to this point, because the principle is familiar to the
profession. It is impossible to look into the subject,
without perceiving and admitting it. Its extent may
be less obvious.
We now find this prerogative employed in enforcing donations to charitable uses, which would not be
valid if made to other uses; in applying them. to different objects thahi those designated by the donor;
and in supplying all defects in the instrument by which
the donation is conveyed, or in that by which it is
administered.
It is not to be admitted that legacies not valid in
themselves, can be made so by force of prerogative,
a Cooper's Eq. Pl. 27.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

i819.
in violation of private rights. This superintending
power of the crown, therefore, over charities, must be
Baptist As7
confined to those which are valid in law. If, before sociation
the statute of Elizabeth, legacies like that under consi- H .t'sExis.
deration would have been established, on information
filed in the name of the Attorney General, it would
furnish a strong argument for the opinion, that some
principle was recognised prior to that statute, which
gave validity to such legacies.
But although we find dicta of Judges, asserting,
that it was usual before the statute of Elizabeth, to
establish charities, by means of an information filed.
by the Attorney General; we find no dictum, that
charities could be established on such information,
where'the conveyance was defective, or the donation was so vaguely expressed, that the donee, if not
a charity, would be incapable of taking; and the
thing given would vest in the heir or next of kin.
All the cases which have been cited, where charities
have been established, under the statute, that were
deemed invalid independent of it, contradict this
position.
In construing that statute, in a preceding part-of
this opinion, it was shown, that its enactments are
sufficient to establish charities not previously valid.
It affords, then, a broad foundation for the superstruc 7
ture which has been erected on it.' And, although.
many of the cases go, perhaps, too far ; yet, on a review of the authorities, we think they are to be considered as constructions of the statute not entirely to
be justified, rather than as proving the existence of
some other principle concealed in a dark and remoto,
VOL. IV.

.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1819.
Baptist Association

antiquity, and giving a rule in cases of charity which
forms an exception to the general principles of, our

law.

V.

1. But even if in England the power of the king as
parens patrice would, independent of the statute, ex6f
this
quest
nature could tend to a case of this description, the inquihy would
be enforced by stil] remain how far this principle would govern in
Iart'sEx'rs.

But even if,
,:haritabole
il
England,be.a

virtue of the

king's prerg-

ative as parms
Ufar1.re
how .far this
principle is ap.
courts of

the

United States?

the courts of the United States. Into this inquiry,
however, it is unnecessary to enter, because it can
arise only where the' Attorney-General is made a

party.
The Court has taken, perhaps, a more extensive
view of this subject, than the particular case, and the
question propounded onit, might be thought to require. Those who are to take this legacy beneficially, are not before the Court, unless they are represented by the surviving members of the Baptist Association, or by the present corporation. It was,
perhaps, sufficient to shov, that they are not represented by either. This bqing the case, it may be
impossible that a party plaintiff can be made to sue
the executor, otherwise than on the information of
the Attorney General. No person exists who can
aSsert any interest in himself. The cestui que tr~tst
can be brought into being only by the selection of
those who are named in the will to take the legacy
iq trust, and those who are so named, are incapable
of taking it. It is, perhaps, decisive of the question
propounded to this Court to say, that the plaintiffs
cannot take. But the rights of those who claim
tle beheficial interest, have been- argued at great
length, and with great ability; and there would have

OF THE UNITED STATES.

been some difficulty in explaining satisfactorily, the
reasons why the plaintiffs cannot take, without discussing also, the rights of those for whom they claim.
The Court has, therefore, 'indicated its opinion on
the whole case, as argued and understood at the bar.
This cause came on to be heard
on the transcript of the record of the Court of the
United States, for the Fifth Circuit, and the District
of Virginia, and on the question therein stated,' on
which the Judges of that Court were divided in opinion, and which was adjourned to this"Cburt, and
was argued by counsel: On consideration whereof
this Court is of opinion, that the plaintiffs are incapable of taking the legacy for which :this suit, wa instituted; which opinion is ordered to be certified to
the said Circuit Court.a
CERTIFICATE.

a Vide APPENDIX. NTote I. on CharitableBequests.

1819.
Baptist As"
sociation
llart'sEx'z!.

