CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

518
1819.
O
Dartmouth
College

evidenced by their respective sales of parcels of the
land held by each, under his patent, bounding on the
agreed line, amount to a full and complete recogni-

Woodward. tion of it; and in the opinion of this Court, precludes

the plaintiff, afier such a lapse of time, from denying
it to be the dividing line between him and the defendants; and neither ought now to be permitted to disturb
the possession of the other, under a pretence that the
line was not correctly run.
Judgment affirmed.

(CONSTITUTIONAL LAW.)

The

TRUSTEES OF DARTMOUTH COLLEGE V. WOODWARD.

The charter granted by the British crown to the trustees of Dartmouth
College, in New-Hampshire, in the year 1769, is a contract within the meaning of that clause of the constitution of the United
States, (art. 1. s. 10.) which declares that no. State shall make any
law impairing the obligation of contracts. The charterj' was not
dissolved by the revolution.
An act of the State legislature of New-Hampshire, altering the chatter, without the consent of the corporation, in a material respect, is
an act impairing the obligation of the charter, and is unconstitutional and void.
Under its charter, Dartmouth College was a private and not a public
corporation.
That a corporation is established for purposes of
general charity, or for education generally, does not, per s , make it
a public corporation, liable to the control of the legislature.

to the Superior Court of the State of
New-Hampshire.
This was an action of trover brought in the State
Couirt, in which the plaintiffs in error declared for
ERROR

OF THE UNITED STATES.

two books of records, purporting to contain the records of all the doings and proceedings of the trustees of Dartmouth College, from the establishment

519
1819.
., .,

Dartmouth .

College

of the corporation until the 7th day of _ctober, w Y'
1816 ; the original charter, or letters patent, • constituting the college; the common seal; and four volumes or books of account, purporting to contain
the charges and accounts in favour of the college.
The defendant pleaded the general issue, and at
the trial the following special' verdict was found:
"The said jurors, upon their oath, say, that his
Majesty George the Third, King of Great'Britain,
&c. issued his letters patent, under the public seal
of the Province, now State, of New-Haimpshiie,
bearing date the 15th day'of December, in the 10th
year of his reign, and in the year of our Lord, one
thousand seven hundred and sixty-nine, in the words
following :
Charter it
GEoRtGE the TtiRD, by the grace of GoD,of Great Dartmouth
Britain, France, and Ireland, KING, Defender colleg,.

of the Faith, and so forth.
To all to whom these presents shall come.,..
GREETING:
WHEREAS

it hath bcen represented to our trusty

and well beloved John Wentworth, Esq. Governor
and commander in chief, in and over our Province
of New-Hampshire in New-England in America,
that the Reverend Eleazar Wheelock, of Lebanon, in
the colony of Connecticut, in New-England afore-

said, now Doctor in Divinity, did, on or about the year
of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and fifty-four,

5;20
1819.
Dartmouth'

,college
V..
Woodward.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

at his-own expense, on his own estate and plantation
set on foot an Indian Charity School, and for several
years, through the assistance of well disposed persons
in America, clothed, maintained and educated a number of the children .of the Indian natives, with a
view to their carrying the gospel in their own language, and spreading the knowledge of the great'Redeemer, among their savage tribes, and hath actually
employed a number of them as missionaries and
school masters in the wilderness for that purpose:
and by the blessing of God upon the endeavours of
said Wheelock, the design became reputable among
the Indians, insomuch that a larger number-desired
the education of their children in said school, and
were also disposed to receive missionaries and school
masters in the wilderness, more than could be supported by the charitable contributions in these American colonies.
Whereupon, the said Eleazar Wheelock thought it
expedient, that- endeavours should -be. used to rais,
contributions from well disposed persons in England,
for the carrying on and 'extending said undertaking;
and for that purpose the said Eleazar Wheelock requested the Rev. Nathaniel Whitaker, now- doctor in
divinity, to go over to' England for that purpose, and
sent over with him the Rev. Samson Occom, an Indian minister, who had ,been educated by the said
Wheelock. And to enable the said Whitaker to the
more successful performance of said work, on which
he was sent, said Wheelock gave him a full powet
of attorney, by which said Whitaker solicited those
worthy and generou:contributors to te charity, viz.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

The Right Honourable. William, Earl of Dartmouth,
the Honourable Sir Sydney Stafford Smythe, Knight,
9

521
1819.
h
Dartmouth
College

one of the Barons of his Majesty's Court of ExcheV.
quer, John Thornton, of Clapham, in the county, of Woodward
Surrey, Esquire, Samuel Roffey, of Lincoln's Innfields, in the county of Middlesex, Esquire, Charles
Hardy, of the parish of Saint Mary-le-bonne, in said
county, Esquire, Daniel West, of Christ's church,
Spitalfields, in the county aforesaid, Esquire, Samuel
Savage, of the same place, Gentleman, Josiah Roberts, of the parish of Saint Edmund, the King,
Lombard Street, London, Gentleman, and Robert
Keen, 'ofthe parish of Saint Batolph Aldgate, London, Gentleman, to receive the several sums-of money which should be contributed, and to be "trustees
for the contributors to such charity, which they cheerfully agreed to.
Whereupon, the said Whitaker did, by virtue of
said power of attorney, constitute and 'appoint the
said Earl of Dartmouth, Sir Sydney Stafford Smythe,
John Thornton, Samuel Roffey, Charles Hardy,, and
Daniel West, Esquires, and Samuel Savage, Josiah
Roberts, and Robert Keen, Gentlemen, tobe trustees
of the money which had then been 'contributed, and
which should, by his means, be contributed for said
purpose; which trust they have accepted, as by their
engrossed declaration of the same,under their hands
and seals well executed, fully appears, and the same
has also been ratified, by q deed of trust, well executed, by the said Wheelock.
And the said Wheelock further represents, that he
has, by power of attorney, for many weighty reasons,
VOL. IV.

66

522

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

i189.-

given full power to the said trustees, to fix upon and

D
Dartmouth

determine the place for said school, most subservient
to the great end in view;' and to enable them under-

College
Woodward.

standingly to give the preference, the said Wheelock
has laid before the said trustees, the several offers
which have been generously made in the several governments in America, to encourage and invite the
settlement of said school among them, for their own
private emolument, and the increase of learning in
their respective places, as well as for the furtherance
of the general design in view.
And whereas a large number of the proprietors of
lands in the western part of this our province of NewHampshire, animated and excited thereto, by the generous example of his excellency their governor, and
by the liberal contributions of many noblemen and
gentlemen in England, and especially by the consideration, that such a situation would be as convenient
as any for carrying on the great design among the
Indians ; and also, considering, that without the least
impediment to the said design, the same school may
be enlarged and improved to promote learning among
the English, and be a means to supply a great number of churches and congregations, which are likely
soon to be formed in that new country, with a learned and orthodox ministry ; they, the said proprietors,
have promised large tracts of land, for the uses aforesaid, provided the school shall be settled in the western part of our said province. And they, the said
right honourable, honourable, and worthy trustees,
.before mentioned, having maturely considered the
reasons and arguments, in favour of the several places

OF THE UNITED STATES.

59.3

proposed, have given the preference to th6 western
1810.
part of our said province,
lying on Connkticut river, D artmfoulh
Ih
')
College
as a situation most convenient for said school.
V.
And the said Wheelock has further represented a Woodward.
necessity of a legal incorporation, in order to the
safety and well being of said seminary, and its being
capable of the tenure and disposal of lands and bequests for the use of the same.
And the said Wheelock has also represented, that
for many weighty reasons, it will be expedient, at
least in the infancy of said institution, or till it can be
accommodated in that new country, and, he and his
friends be able to remove and settle by and round
about it, that the gentlemen, whomlhe has already
nominated in his last will, (which he has transmitted
to the aforesaid gentlemen of the trust in England,)
to be trustees in America, should be of the corporation now proposed. And, also, as there are already
large collections for said school, "inthe hands of the
aforesaid gentlemen of the trust in England, and all
reason to believe, from their singular wisdom, piety,
and zeal to promote the Redeemer's cause, (which
has already procured for them the utmost confidence
of the kingdom,) we may expect they will appoint
successors in time to come, who will be iuen of the
same spirit, whereby great good may and will accrue
many ways to the institution, and much be done by
their example and influence to encourage and facilitate the whole design in view; for which reason,
said Wheelock desires, that the trustees aforesaid
may be vested with all that power therein, which can
tonsist with their distance from the same.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Know ye, therefore, That We, considering the preDartmouthhmises, and being 'willing to encourage the laudable
and charitable design of spreading christian, knowCollege
Woodward. ledge among the savages of our American wilderness, and also that the best means of education be
established in our province of New-Hampshire, for
the benefit of said province, do, of our special grace,
certain knowledge, and mere motion, by and with
the advice of our counsel for said province, by these
presents, will, ordain, grant, and constitute, that there
be a college erected in our said province of NewHampshire, by the name of Dartmouth College, for
the education and instruction of youth of the Indian
tribes in this land, in reading, writing, and all parts
of learning, which shall appear necessary and expedient, for civilizing and christianizing children of
pagans, as well as in all liberal arts and sciences,
and also of English youth and any others. And the
trustees of said college may and shall be one body
-corporate and politic, in deed, action, and name, and
shall be called, named, and distinguished, by the name
of the Trustees of Dartmouth College..
, And further, we hive willed, given, granted, con-stituted, and ordained, and by this our present charter,
of our special grace, certain knowledge, and mere mo1819.

tion, with the:advice aforesaid, do, for us, our heirs
and successors forever, will, give, grant, constitute,,
-and ordain, that there shall be in the said Dartmouth
College,. from henceforth and forever, a body politic,
congisting of Trustees. of said Dartmouth College.
And for the more full and perfect erection of said
corporation and body politic, consisting of trustees
of Dartmouth College, we, of our special grace, cer-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

52&

tain knowledge, and mere motion, do, by these pre-

1810.

sents, for us, our heirs and successors, make, ordain,

Dar-,-uth

constitute, and appoint " our trusty and well beloved College
V.
John Wentworth, Esq. governor of our said pro- -woodward.
vince, and the governqr of our said province of NewHampshire for the time being, and our trusty and
well beloved Theodore Atkinson, Esq. now president of our council of our said province, George Jaffrey and Daniel Peirce, Esqrs. both of our said council, and Peter Gilman, Esq. now speaker of our
house of representatives in said province, and William
Pitkin, Esq. one of the assistants of our colony of
Connecticut, and our said trusty and well beloved
Eleazar Wheelock, of Lebanon, doctor in divinity,
Benjamin Pomroy, of Hebron, James Lockwood, of
Weathersfield, Timothy Pitkin and John Smalley,
of Farmington, and William Patten, of Hartford, all
of our said colony of Connecticut, ministers of the
gospel, (the whole number of said trustees consisting,
and hereafter forever to, consist, of twelve, and no
more,) to be trustees of said Dartmouth College, in
this our province of New-Hampshire..
And we do further, of our special grace, certain
knowledge, and mere motion, for us, our heirs and
successors, will, give, grant, and appoint, that the
said trustees and their successors shall forever hereaftei be, in deed, act, and name, a body Ciorporate and
politic and that they, the said body corporate and
politic, shall be known and distinguished, in all deeds,
grants, bargains, sales, writings, evidences, or otherwise howsoever, and in all Courts forever hereafter
plead and be. impleaded by-the name of The Trustees
of Dartmouth College ;and that the said corporation,

526

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

by the name aforesaid, shall be able, and in law capable, for the use of said Dartmouth College, to have,
aye
c,
Dartmouth
College
get, acquire, purchase, receive, hold, possess, and
W~oVard. enjoy, tenements, hereditaments, jurisdictions, and
1819.

%-

franchises, for themselvesand their successors, in fee
simple, or otherwise howsoever, and to purchase, receive, or build, any house or houses, or any other
buildings, as they shall think needful and convenient,
for the use of said Dartmouth College, and in such
town in the western part of our said province of
New-Hampshire, as shall, by said trustees, or the
major part of them, be agreed on ; their said agreement to be evidenced by an instrument in writing,
under their hands, ascertaining the same-And also
to receive and dispose of any lands, goods, chattels,
and. other things, of what nature soever, for the use
aforesaid-And also to have, accept, and receive any
rents, profits, annuities, gifts, legacies, donatioqs, or
bequests of any kind whatsoever, for the use aforesaid ; so, nevertheless, that the yearly value of the
premises do not exceed the sum of six thousand
pounds sterling ; and therewith, or otherwise, to
support and pay, as the said trustees, or the major
part of such of them as are regularly convened for
the purpose, shall agree, the President, Tutors, and
other offic-j and ministers of said Dartmouth College ; and also to pay all such missionaries and school
masters as shall be authorized, appointed, and erployed by them, for civilizing, and christianizing,
and instructing the Indian natives of this land, their
several allowances ; and also their respective annual
salaries or allowances, and all such necessary and

OF THE UNITED STATES.

527

-contingent charges, as from time to time shall arise
1819.
and accrue, relating to the said Dartmouth College:
"
Dartmouth
And also, to bargain, sell, let, or assign, lands, tene-' colege
ments, or hereditaments, goods or chattels, and all W..dward.
other things whatsoever, by the name aforesaid, in as
full and ample a manner, to all intents and purposes,
as a natural person, or other body politic or corporate,
is able to do by the laws of our realm of Great-Britain, or of said province of New-Hampshire.
And further, of our special grace, certain knowledge, and mere motion, to the intent that our said
corporation, and body politic, may answer the end
of their erection and constitution, and may have perpetual succession and continuance forever, we do, for
us, our heirs and successors, will, give, and gran't,
unto the Trustees of Dartmouth 'College, and to
their successors forever, that there shall be, once a
year, pnd every year, a meeting of said trustees,
held at said Dartmouth College, at such time as by
said trustees, or the major part of them, at any legal
meeting of said trustees, shall be agreed on ; the first
meeting to be called by the said Eleazar Wheelock,
as soon as conveniently may be, within one year next
after the enrollment of 'these our letters patent, at
such time and place as he, shall judge proper. And
the said trustees, or the major part of any, seven or
more of them, shall then determine on the time for
holding the annual meeting aforesaid, which may be
altered as they shall hereafter find most convenient.
And we farther. order and direct, that the said Eleazar
Wheelock. shall notify the time for holding said first
meeting, to ke called as aforesaid, by sending a letter

528
1819.
]Dartmouth
m
Vr.
College

Woodward.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

to each of said trustees, and causing an advertisement thereof to be printed in the New-Hampshire'
Gazette, and in some public newspaper printed in
the colony of Connecticut. But in case of the death
or incapacity of the said Wheelock, then such meeting to be notified in manner aforesaid, by the governor
or commander in chief of our said province forthe time
being.. And we do .also, for us, our heirs-and successors, hereby will,. give, and grant, unto the said
Trustees of Dartmouth College, aforesaid, and to
their successors forever, that when any seven or more
of the said trustees, or their successors, are convened and met, together, for the service of saidDartmouth College, at any time or times, such seven or
more shall be capable to act as fully and amply, to all
intents and purposes, as if all the trustees of said College were personally present-and all affairs and actions whatsoever, under -the care- of said -trustees,
shall be determined by tile majority or greater number of 'those seven -or more trustees so convened
and met together.
And we do further will, ordain, and direct, that
the president, trustees, professors, tutors, and all such
officers as-shall be appointed for the public instruction and government' of said college, shall, before
they undertake the execution of their offices or trusts,
or within one year after, take the oaths and subscribe
the declaration provided by an act of Parliament made
in the. first year of King George the First, entitled,
"An act for the further security of his Majesty's
person and government, and the succession of the
crown in the heirs of. the late Princess Sophia, being

OF THE UNITED STATES.

protestants, and for the extinguishing the hopes of*the
pretended Prince of Wales, and his open and secret
abettors ;" that is to say, the President, before the
Governor .of our said Province for the time being,
or bY one by him empowered to that service, or .by
the president of our said council, and the trustees,
professors, tutors, and other officers, before the president of said college for the time being, who is hereby
empowered to administer the same; an entry of all
which shall be made in the records of said college.
And wp.do, for us, our heirs, and successors, hereby
will,give, and grant, full power and authority to the
president hereafter by us named, and to his successors,
or, in case of his failure,to any three or more of the
said-trustees, to appoint other occasional meetings,
from time.to time, of the said seven trustees, or any
greater number of them, to bransadt any matter or
thing necessary to be done before the next annual
meeting, and to order notice to the said seven, or any
greater number of them, of the times and places of
meeting for the service aforesaid, by a letter under his
or their hands, of the same, one month before.said
meetihg-Provided always, that no -standing rule or
order be .made -or ahtered, .for the regulation. of said
colloge, nor any president or professor be chosen or
displaced, nor any other matter or thing transacted or
done, which shall continue in force after the then next
annual- meeting of the said trustees, as aforesaid.
And; further, we do, by these presents, for us,' our
heirs and successors, create, make, constitute, nominate, and appoint our trusty and well beloved Eleazar
Wheelock, Doctor in Divinity, the founder. of said
VOL. IV.

67

529
1si9.
Dartmouth
College
Woodward.-

530

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

college,' to be President of said Dartmouth College,
and to have the immediate care of the educatiori and
ro
Dartmouth
College
government of such students as shall be admitted into
V.
Woodward. said Dartmouth College for instruction and education; and do will, give, and- grant, to him, in said
office, full power, authority, and riglit, to nominate,
appoint, constitute, and ordain, by his last will, such
suitable and meet person or persons as he shall choose
to succeed him in the presidency of siid Dartmouth
College ; and the person so appointed, by his last-will,
to continue in office, vested with' all the powers, privileges, jurisdiction, and authority, of a President of
said Dartmouth "College; that is to say, so long ajnd
until such appointment by said last will shall be
disapproved by 'the Trustees of said Dartmouth
College.
And we do als0, for us, our heirs,, and successors,
will, give, and grant to the said tr ustees of said Dartmouth College, and to their successors forever, or
any "seven or more of them convened as aforesaid,
that in the case of the ceasing or failure of a ,president by any means -whatsoever, that the said trustees
do ,1ect," nominate,- and appoint such qualified person as they, orthe major part of any seven or more
of them, convened for that purpose as above. directed,
shallthink fit, to be: president of' said Dartmouth
College, and to-have the care of the education and
government'of the studentsas aforesaid; and in case
of the ceasing of a president as. aforesaid, the senior
professor or tutor, :being one of the trustees,-shall
exercise the office of a president, .untir the trustees
shall make choice of,and appoint, a president as afore1819.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

.631

1819.,
said; and such professor or tutor, or any three or
more of the trustees, shall immediately appoint a Dartmfouth
meeting of the body of the trustees for the purpose conege
aforesaid. And also we do will, give, and grant to Woodivard.
the said trustees convened as aforesaid, that they
elect, nominate, and appoint so many tutors and
professors to assist the president in the education and
government of the.students belonging thereto, as they
the said trustees shall, from time to time,.think need-.,
ful and serviceable to the interests of said Dartmouth
College. And also, that the said trustees or their
successors, or the major part of any seven or more
of them convened- for that purpose as above directed,
shall at any time displace and discharge from the ser-,
vice of said Dartmouth College any or all such officers, and elect others in their room and stead as before directed. And also that the said trustees; or their
successors, or;the major part of any seven of them
which shall convene for that purpose- as above directed, do, from time to time, as occasion shall require, elect, constitute, and appoint a tieasurer, a
clerk, an usher, and a steward for the said Dartmouth
College, and appoint to them And each of them their
respective businesses and trust; and displace'. and
discharge from the service of said College, such
treasurer, clerk, usher or steward, and to elect others
in their room and stead; which officers so elected,
as before directed, we do for us, our heirs and successors, by these presents, constitute and establish in
their respective offices, aid do give to each and every
of them full power and authority to exercise the
same in said Dartmouth College, according to th.

532

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1a19.

directions, and during the pleasure of said trustees,

Dartmouth

as fullD and freely as any like officers in any, of our

universities, colleges, or seminaries of learning in
Woodward. our realm of Great-Britain,. lawfully may or ought
to do. And also, that the said trustees and their successors, or the major part of any seven or more of
them, which shall convene for that purpose as is
above directed, as often as one or 'more of said trustees shall die, or by removal or otherwise shall, accordi.ng to their judgment, become unfit or incapable
to serve the interests of said College, do,' as soon as
may be after the death, removal, or Such unfitness or
incapacity of such trustee or trutetees, elect and appoint such trustee or trustees as shallsupply 'the
place of hitn or them so dying,' or becoming incapable to serve the interests of said. College; and
every trusteeso elected and appointed shall, by virtue of these presents and such election and appointment, be vested with all the powers and privileges
which any of' the other trustees of said College. are
hereby vested with. And we do further will, ordain,
and direct, that from and after the expiration of two
years, from the enrolment .of these presents, such
vacancy or vacancies as may or shall happen, by
death or otherwise, in the aforesaid number of trustees, ,shall be "filled up by election as aforesaid, so
that when such vacanciesshall be filled up unto the
complete number of twelve trustees, eight of -the
aforesaid whole number of the body of trustees
shall be ,resident, and respectable freeholders, of our
said Province of New-Hampshire, and seven of said
whole number shall be laymen.
College
V.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

And we do further, of our special grace, certain
knowledge, and mere motion, willt, give, and grant,
unto the said Trustees.of Darmouth College, that
they, and their successors, or the major part of any
seven of them which shall convene for that purpose
as is above directed, may make, and they, are hereby
fully impowered, from time to time, fully and lawfully to make and establish such ordinances, orders,
and laws, as may tend to the good and wholesome
government of the said college, and all the students
and the'several officers and ministers thereof, and to
the public benefit of the same, not repugnant to the
laws and. statutes -of our realm of Great Britain, or
of this our province of New-Hampshire, and not excluding any person -of any religious denomination
whatsoever, from free and equal liberty and advantage of educationi or from any f the liberties and
privileges or immunities of the said college, on account of.his or their speculative sentiments in religion, and of his or their being of a religious profession different from the said trustees of the said Dartmouth College. And such ordinances, orders, and
laws, which shall as aforesid be made, we'do for us,
*our. heirs and successors' by these presents ratify,
allow of, and confirm, as good and effectual to oblige
and bind all. the students, and the several officers and
ministers of the said college. And we do hereby'
authorize and impower the said Trustees of Dartmouth College, and the president, tutors, and professors, by them elected and appointed as aforesaid, to
put such ordinances, orders, and laws, in execution,
to all proper intents and purposes.

533
1819.

t
College
Woodward.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

.634
1819.

And we do further, of our special grace, certain

and. mere motion, will, give, and grant
College unto the said Trustees of said Dartmouth College,
V.
Woodward. for the encopragement of learning, and animating
the students of said college to diligence and industry,
and a laudable progress in literature, that they, and
their successors, or the major part of any'seven or
more of them, convened for that purpose as above
directed, do, by the president of said college, for the
time being, or any other deputed by them, give, and
grant any such, degree or degrees to any of the studepts of the said college, or any others by them
thought worthy thereof, as are usually granted in
either of the universities, or any other college in our
realm of Great Britain; and that they sign and seal
,diplomas or certificates of such, graduations,,to be
kept by the graduates as perpetual memorials and
testimonials thereof.
And we do further, of our special grace, certain
knowledge,'and mere motion, by these presents, for
us, our heirs and successors, give and grant unto
the Trustees of said Dartmouth College, and to their
successors, that they and their successors shall have
a common seal, under which they may pass all diplomas or certificates of degrees, and all other affairs
and business of, and concerning the 'said college;
which shall be engraven in such a form, and with
such an inscription as shall, be devised by the said
trustees, for the time being, or by the major part of
any seven or more of them convened for the service
f,the said college as is above-directed.
Sknowledge,

Dartmouth

OF THE UNITED STATES.

-535

And we do further, for us, our heirs and successors,
1819.
Dartmouth
the
said
of
said
trustees
gife and grant itnto the
Dartmouth College, and their successors, or to the College
major part of any seven or more of them convened Woodward.
for the service of the said college, full power and authority, from time to time, to nominate and appoint
all other officers and ministers, which they shall think
convenient and necessary for the service of the said
college, not herein particularly named or mentioned;
which officers and ministers we do hereby impower
to execute their offices and trusts, as fully and freely
as any of the officers and ministers in our universities
or colleges in our realm'of Great Britain lawfully
may or ought to do.
And further, that the generous contributors to the
support of this design of spreading the knowledge of
the only true God and Saviour among the Arerican
savageS, may, from time to time, be satisfied that their
liberalities are faithfully disposed of, in the best manner, for that purpose, and that others may, in future
time, be encouraged in the exercise of the like liberality for promoting the same pious design, it shall be
the duty of the President of said Dartmouth College,
and of his successors, annually, or as often as he shall
be thereunto desired or required, to transmit to .the
right honourable, honourable, and worthy gentlemen
of the trust in Engfand before mentioned, a faithful
account of the improvements and disbursements of
the several sums he shall receive from the donations
and bequests made in England, through the hands of
said trustees, and also advise them of the general
plans laid, and, prospects exhibited, as well as a fiith-

536

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

ful account of all remarkable occurrences, in order,
if
they shall think expedient, that they may be pubDartmouth
College
lisbed. And this to continue so long as they shall
V.
Woodward. perpetuate their board of trust, and there shall be
any of the Indian natives remaining to be proper objects of that charity., And, lastly, our express will
and pleasure is, and we do, by these presents, for us,
our heirs.and successors, give and grant unto the said
Trustees of Dartmouth. College, and to their successors forever, that these our letters. patent, on the
enrolment thereof in the Secretary's , office of our
Province of New, Hampshire aforesaid, shall be good
and effectual in the law, to all intents and purposes,
against us, our heirs and successors, without any other
license, grant, or-confirmation from us, our.heirs and
successors, hereafter by: the said trustees to be had and
obtained, notwithstanding the'not writing or misreeital, not naming. or misnaming the aforesaid offices,
franchises, privileges, immunities, or other the premises, or any of them, and notwithstanding-a writ of
ad quod damnumhath not'issued forth to inquire of
the premises,' or any of them, before the ensealing
-hereof, any statute, act, ordinance, or. provision, or
any other matter or thing, to the contrary nhotwithstanding.. To have and to hold all and singular -the
privileges, advantages, liberties, immunities, and all
other the premises herein and hereby granted, or which
are meant, mentioned,-or intended to be herein and
hereby given and granted unto them, the/said Trustees of Dartmouth College, and to .their successors
forever. In testimony whereof, we have caused these
our letters to be made patent, and the public Sealof
1819.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

.5-67

1819.
our said Province of New-Hampshire to be hereunto
1ot
affixed. Witness our trusty and well beloved John'.Dartmouth
Wentworth,' Esquire, Governor and Commander in College
Chief in and over our said Province, &c. this thir- Wo'owaA.
teenth day of December, in the tenth year of our
reign, and in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and sixty-nine.:
N. B. The words " and such professor, or'tutor, o1
any three or more of the trustees, shall immediately
appoint a-meeting of the-body of the trustees, for the
purpose aforesaid," between the first and second lines,
also the words "or more," between the twenty-seventh
and twenty-eighth lines, also the words "or more,"
between the twenty-eighth and twenty-ninth lines,
and also the words " to all ,intents and purposes," between the thirty-seventh and thirty-eighth line of this
sheet, were respectively interlined before signing and
sealing.

And the said jurors, upon their oath, further say,
that afterwards, upon the eighteenth day of the.same
December, the said letters patent were duly enrolled
and recorded in the Secretary's office of said Province,
now State, of New-Hampshire-And afterwards, and
within one year from the issuing of the same letters
patent, all the persons named as trustees in the same
accepted the said letters patent, and assented thereunto, and the corporation therein and thereby created
and erected was duly organized, and has, until the
passing. of the act of the legislature of the State of
New-Hampshire, of the 27th of June, A. D. 1816,
and ever since, (unless prevented by said act and the
Vol.. IV.

68.

538
1819.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

doings under the same,) continued to be a corpo-

'ration.

]Dartmouth

College

Woodward.

And the said jurors, upon their oath, further say,
that immediately after its erection and organization
as aforesaid, the said corporation had, took, acquired,
and received, by gift, donation, devise, and otherwise,
lands, goods, chattels, and moneys of great value;
and from time to time since have had, taken, received,
and acquired, in manner aforesaid, and otherwise,
lands, goods, chattels, and moneys of great value;
and on the same 27th day of June, A. D. 1816, the
said corporation, erected and organized as aforesaid,
had, held, and enjoyed, and ever since have had, held,
and enjoyed, divers lands, tenements, hereditaments,
goods, chattels, and moneys, acquired in manner aforesaid, the yearly -income of the same, not exceeding
the sum of 26,666 dollars, for the use of said Dartmouth College, as specified in said letters patent.
And the said jurors, upon their oath, further say,
that part of the said lands, so acquired and holden
by the said trustees as aforesaid, were granted by
(and 'are situate in) the State of Vermont, A. D.
1785, and are of great value; and other part of said
and holden as aforesaid, were
lands, so
granted -by (and are situate in) the State of NewHampshire, in the years 1789, and 1807, and are of
great value,
.And the said jurors, upon their oath, further say,
that the said Trusteees of Dartmouth College, go
constituted as aforesaid, on the same 27th day of
June, A. D. 1816, were possessed of the goods and
chattels in the declaration of the said trustees specifi-acquired

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ed, and at the place therein mentioned, as of their
own proper goods and chattels, and continued so possessed until, and at the time of the demand and refusal of the same as hereinafter mentioned, unless devested thereof, and their title-thereto defeated, and
rendered invalid, by-the provisions of the act of the
State of New-Hampshire, made and passed on the
same 27th day of June, A. D. 1816, and the doings
under the same, as"hereinafter mentioned and recited.
And the said jurors, upon their oath, further say,
that on the 27th day of June, A. D. 1816, the legislature of said State of New-Hampshire made and
passed a certain act, entitled, " An act to amend the
charter, and enlarge and improve the corporation of
Dartmouth College," in the words following:

639
Dartmouth
College

V.

Woodward

An act to amend the charter,and enlarge and improve
the Corporationof Dartmouth College.
WHEREAS

knowledge and learning generally dif-

-.Actatre
of
legis

the
o

fused through a community, are essential to the pre- 1,
w.Ha-'o
shire
of *the

servation of a free government, and extending
~1816. the opportunities and advantages of education is highly
conducive to promote this cnd, and by the coitstitution it is made the duty of the legislators and magis-

trates, to cherish the interests of literature, and the
sciences, and all seminaries established for their advancement-and as the college of the State may, in
the opinion of the legislature be rendered more ex1,
tensively useful ; Therefore,
SECT. 1. Be it enacted by the senate and house of
representatives,in general court convened, That the

27th of June,

540

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

corporation, heretofore called and known by the
Datout name of the Trustees of Dartmouth College, shall
Dartmouth
College ever hereafter be called and known by the name of
V.
Woodward. the Trustees of Dartmouth University.-And the
whole number of said trustees shall be twenty-one,
a majority of whom shall form a quorum for the
transaction of business.-And they and their successors in that capacity, as hereby constituted, shall respectively forever have, hold, use, exercise and enjoy all the powers, authorities, rights, property, liberties, privileges and immunities which have hitherto
been possessed, enjoyed and used by the Trustees of
Dartmouth College-except so far as the same may
be varied or limited by the provisions of this act.
And they shall have power to determine the times
and places of their meetings, and manner of notifying the same ; to organize colleges in the university;
to establish an institute and elect fellows and members thereof: to appoint such officers as they may
deem proper, and determine their duties and compensation, and also to displace them; to delegate
the power of supplying vacancies in any of the offices
of the university, for any term of time not extending
beyond their next meeting: to pass ordinances for
the government of the students, with reasonable penalties, not inconsistent with the constitution and laws
of this State; to prescribe the course of education,
and confer degrees ; and to arrange, invest, and employ the funds of the university.
SEct. 2. And be it further enacted, That there
shall be a board of overseers, who shall have perpetual succession, and whose number shall be twen1819.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

541

ty-five, fifteen of whom shall constitute a quorum
isig.
for the transaction of business. 'The president of
Dartmouth
the senate, andthe speaker of the house of represen- College
tatives of New-Hampshire, the governor and lieu- Woodward.
tant governor of Vermont, for the time- being, shall
be members of said board, ex officio. The board of
overseers shall have power to determine the. times
and places of their meetings, and manner of notifying the same ; to inspect and confirm, or disapprove
and negative, such votes and proceedings of the board
of trustees as shall relate to the appointment and removal of president, professors, and other permanent
officers of the university, and determine their salaries; to the establishment of colleges and professorships, and the erection of new college buildings,
Provided always, that the said negative shall be expressed within sixty days from the time of said overseers being furnished with .copies of such acts.-Provided also, that all votes and proceedings of the
board of trustees shall be valid and effectual, 'to all
intents and purposes, until such negative of the board
of overseers be'expressed, according to the provisions
of -this act.
SECT. 3. Be it.further enacted, That there shall
be a treasurer of said corporation, Who shall be duly
sworn, and.who, before he enters upon the duties of'
his office, shall give bonds, with sureties, to the satisfaction -of the corporation, for the faithful performance thereof; and :also .a. secretary to each of the
boards of trustees and overseers, to be elected -by the
said boards respectively, who shall keep. a just and
true record of the proceedings of the board for

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

4

which he was chosen. And it shall furthermore be
hthe
duty of the secretary of the board of trustees to
Dartmouth
furnish, as soon as may be, to the said board of overcoUeg6
V.
and proWoodward. seers, copies of the records of such votes
ceedings, , as by the provisions of this act are made
subject to their revision and control.
SECT. 4. Be it further enacted, That the president of Dartmouth University, and his successors
in office, shall have the superintendence of the government and instruction of the students, and may
preside at all meetings of the trustees, and .do and
execute all the duties devolving by usage on the president of a university. He shall render annually to
the governor of this state an account of the number of students, and of the state of the funds of the
university; and likewise copies of all important
votes and proceedings of the corporation and overseers, which shall be made out by the secretaries of
the respective boards.
-SECT. 5. Be it further enacted, That the president and professors of the university shall be nominated by the trustees, and approved by the overseers:
and shall be liable to be suspended or removed from
office in manner as before provided. And each of
the two boards of trustees and overseers shall have
power to suspend and remove any member of their
respective boards.
SECT. 6. Be it further. enacted, That the governor and council are hereby authorized to fill all
vacancies in the board of overseers, whether the
same be original vacancies, or are occasioned by the
death, resignation or removal of any member. And
1819.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the governor and council in like manner shall, by

W4
1819.

appointments, as soon as may be, complete the pre- Dartou"
Dartmouth

sent board of trustees to the number of twenty-one,
as provided for by this act, and shall have power also
to fill all vacancies that may occur previous to, or during the first meeting of the said board of trustees.
But the president of said university for the time being, shall, nevertheless, be a member of said board of
trustees, ex officio. And the governoi and council
shall have power to inspect the doings and proceedings of the corporation, and of all the officers of the
university, whenever they deem it expedient-and
they are hereby required to make such inspection,
and report the same to the legislature of this State,
as often as once in every five years. And the governor is hereby authorized and requested to summon
the first meeting of the said trustees and overseers,
to be held at Hanover, on the 26th day of August
next.
SECT. 7. Be it further enacted, That the president
and professors of the university, before entering upon
the duties of their offices shall take the oath to support the constitution of the United States and of this
State ; certificates of which shall be in the office of
the Secretary of this State, within sixty days from
their entering on their offices respectively.
-SECT.

8. Be it further enacted, That perfect free-

dom of religious opinion shall be enjoyed by all the
officers and students of the university ; and no officer
or student shall be deprived of any honours, privileges,
or benefits of the institution, on account of his religious creed or belief. The theological colleges which

College
Woodward.

CASES IN: THE SUPREME COURT
1819.
%

"

Dartmouth
Cqlege
Woodward.

may be established in the university shall be founded,
on the same principles of religious freedom; and anyy
man, or body of men, shall have a right to endow
Colleges or professorships of any sect of the protestant christian religion : And the trustees shall be held
and obliged to appoint professors of learning and piety
of such sects according to the will of the donors.
Approved, June 27th, 1816.
And the said jurors, upon their oath, further say,
that, at the annual meeting of the Trustees of Dartmouth College, constituted agreeably to the letters
patent aforesaid, and in no other way or manner,
holden at said college, on the 28th day of August,
A. D. 1816, the said trustees voted and resolved, and
caused the said vote and resolve to-be entered on
their records, that they do not accept the provisions
of the said act of the legislature of New-Hampshire
of the 27th of June, 1816, above recited, but do, by
the said vote and resolve, expressly refuse to accept or
act under the same.
And the said jurors, upon their oath, further say,
that the said Trustees of Dartmouth College have
never accepted, assented to, or acted -under the said
act of the 27th of June, A. D. 1816, orany actpassed
in addition thereto, or in amendment thereof, but
have continued to act, and still claim the right of acting, under the said letters patent.
And the said jurors, upon their oath, further say,
that, on the seventh day of October, A. D. 1816, and
before the commencement of this suit, the said Trustees of Dartmouth College demanded of the said

OF THE UNITED STATES.

65,

isig.,
William H. Woodward the property, goods, and chattels in the said declaration specified, and requested Dartmouth
the said William H. Woodward, who then had the College
same in his hands and possession, to deliver the same Woodward.
to them,-which the said William H. Woodward thenand there refused to do, and has ever since neglected
and refused to do, but converted the 'same to his
own use, if the said 'Trustees of Dartmouth College
could, after the passing of the said act of the 27th
day of June, lawfully demand the same, and if the
said William H. Woodward was not, by law, authorized to retain the same in his possession after such
demand.
And the said jurors, upon their oath, further say,
that on the 18th day of December, A. D. 1816, the
legislature of said State of New-Hampshire made
and passed a certain other act, entitled, " An act in
addition to, and in amendment of, an act, entitled, An
act to amend the charter, and enlarge and improve
the corporation of Dartmouth College," in the words
following:
of the
ActofDecemAn act in addition to, and in amendment of, an act, 18th
entitled, "An act to amend the charter, and en- ber, 1816.
large and improve the Corporationof Dartmouth
College."

the meetings of the Trustees and Overseers of Dartmouth University, which :were summoned'agreeably to the provisions of said act, failed
of being dulyholden, in consequence of a quorum of
neither said trustees-nor overseers attending at the
WHEREAS

VOL. IV.

69

546

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1819.

time and place appointed, whereby the proceedings

m
t
Dartmouth

of said corporation have hitherto been, and still are

College
V.
WoodwarA.

delayed:
SECTION

1. Be it enacted by the senate and house

of iepresentatives, in general Court convened, That

the governor be, and he is hereby authorized and requested to summon a meeting of the Trustees of Dartmouth University, at such time and place as he may
deem expedient. 'And the said trustees, at such meeting, may do and transact any matter or thing, within
the limits of their jurisdiction and power, as such
trustees, to every intent and purpose, and as fully
and completely as if the same were transacted at any
annual, or other meeting. And the governor, with
advice of council, is authorized to fill all vacancies
that have happened, or may happen in the board of
said trustees, previous to their next annual meeting.
And the governor is hereby authorized to summon
a meeting of the overseers of said university, at such
time and place as he may consider proper. And provided a less number than a quorum of said board of
overseers convene at the time and place appointed for
such meeting of their hoard, they shall have power to
adjourn, from time to time, until a quorum shall have
convened.
SECToN 2. And be. it further enacted, That so
much of the act, to which this is an addition, as makes
necessary any particular number of trustees or overseers of said University, to constitute a quorum -for
the transaction of business, be, and the same hereby
is repealed ; ai'd tharhereafter nihie of said trustees,"
convened agreeably to the provisions of this act, or

OF THE UNITED STATES.

to those of that to which this is an addition, shall be
a quorum for transacting business; and that in the

mg.
tm

board of trustees six votes at least shall be necessary
for the passage of any act or resolution. And pro- Woodward.
vided also, that any smaller number than nine of said
trustees, convened at the time and place appointed
College
Vr.

for any meeting of their board, according to the provisions of this act, or that to which this is an addition, shall have power to adjourn from time to time,
until a quorum shall have convened.
SECTION 3. And be itfitrther enacted, That each
member of said board of trustees, already appointed
orchosen, or hereafterto be appointed or chosen, shall,
before entering on the duties of his office, make
and subscribe an oath for the faithful- discharge of.
the duties aforesaid ; which oath shall be returned to,
and filed in the office of the secretary of state, pre-

vious to the next regular meeting of said board, after
said member enters- on the duties of his-office, as
aforesaid.
Approved, December'18, 1816.
And the said jurors, upon their oath, further say,
that on the 26th day of December, A. D. 1816, the
legislature of said State of New-Hampshire made
and passed a certain other act, entitled, " An act in
addition to an act, entitled, an act in addition to, and

inamendment of, an act, entitled, an act to amend
the charter and enlarge and improve the corporation
of Dartmouth College," in the words following:-

'Aft

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1819.

tdition
Dartmouth

An act in addition to an act, entitled, " an act in adto, and in amendment of, an act, entitled, au

Woodward.

act to amend the charter and enlarge and improve
the corporation of Dartmouth College."

Act of the
26th
ofDecember, 1818.

Be it enacted by the senate and house of represen-

College
V.

tatives in general Court convened, That if any
person or persons shall assume the office of president,
trustee, professor, secretary, treasurer, librarian, or
other officer of Dartmouth University; or by any
name, or under any pretext, shall, directly or indirectly, take upon himself or themselves the discharge of
any of the duties of either of those offices, except
it be pursuant to, and in conformity with, the provisions of an act, entitled, " an act to amend the
charter and enlarge and improve the corporation of
Dartmouth College," or, of the " act, in addition to
and in amendment of an act, entitled, an act to amend
the charter and enlarge and improve the corporation
of Dartmouth College," or shall in any way, direct] or indirectly, wilfully impede or hinder any such
officer or officers already existing, or hereafter to be
appointed agreeably to the provisions of the acts
aforesaid, in the free and entire discharge of the duties of their respective offices, conformably to the
provisions of said acts, the person or persons so
offending shall for each offence forfeit and pay the
sum of five hundred dollars, to be recovered by any
pet'son who shall sue therefor, one half thereof to the
use of the prosecutor, and the other half to the use
.-of said University.
And be itfurther enacted, That the person or persons who sustained the offices of secretary and tree-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

649

1819.
surer of the trustees of Dartmouth College, next before the passage of the act, entitled, " an act to Dartmouth
amend the charter and enlarge and improve the cor-

ICollege

poration of Dartmouth, College," shall continue to Woodward,
hold and discharge the duties of those offices, as
secretary and treasurer of the Trustees of Dartmouth
University, until another person or persons be appointed, in his or their stead, by the trustees of said
University. And that the treasurer of said Univqrsity, so existing, shall in his office have the care,
management, direction, and superintendance of the
property of said corporation, whether real or personal,
until a quorum of said trustees shall have convened
in a regular meeting.
Approved, December 26, 1816.
And the said jurors, upon their oath, further say,
that the said William H. Woodward, before the said
.27th (lay of June, had been duly appointed by the
said Trustees of Dartmouth College, secretary and
treasurer of the said corporation, and was duly qualified to exercise, and did exercise the said offices,
and perform the duties of the same; and as such secretary and treasurer, rightfully had, while he so contitued secretary and treasurer as aforesaid, the custody and keeping of the several g9ods, chattels, and
property, in said declaration specified.
And the said jurors, upon their oath, further say,
that the said William H. Woodward was removed by
said Trustees of Dartmouth College (if the said trustees could, by law, do the said acts) from said office
of secretary, on the 27th day of August, A. D. 1816,
and from said office of treasurer, on the 27th day of

550

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1819.

September then next following, of which said remo-

Dartmouth

vals he, the said William 1H. Woodward, had due no-

'tice on each of said da -slast mentionied.
And the said jurors, upon their oath, further say,
Woodward.
that the corporation, called the Trustees of Dartmouth
University, was duly organized on the fourth day of
February, A. D. 1817, pursuant to, and under the
said recited acts of the 27th day of June, and of the
18th and 26th days of December, A. D. 1816; and
the said William H. Woodward was, on the said
fourth day of February, A. D. 1817, duly appointed
by the said Trustees of Dartmouth University, secretary and treasurer of the said Trustees of Dartmouth University, and then and there accepted both
said offices.
And the said jurors, upon their oath, further say,
that this suit was commenced on the eighth day of
February, A. D. 1817.
But whether upon the whole matter aforesaid, by
the jurors aforesaid, in manner and foi'm aforesaid
found, the said acts of the 27th of June, 18th and
26th of December, A. D. 1816, are valid in law, and
binding on the said trustees of Dartmouth College,
without acceptance thereof and assent thereunto by
them, so as to render the plaintiffs incapable of maintaining 'this action, or whether the same acts are repugnant to the constitution of the United States, and
so void, the said jurors are wholly ignorant, and pray
the advice of the Court upon the premises. And
if upon the said matter, it shall seem to the Court
here, that the said acts last mentioned are valid in
law, and binding on said trustees of Dartmouth Col.College

OF THE UNITED STATES.

lege, without acceptance thereof, and assent thereto,
1819.
"
by them, so as to render the plaintiffs incapable of Dartmouth
maintaining this action, and are not repugnant to the College
constitution of the United States, then the said Wovd.
jurors, upon their oath, say, that the said William H.
Woodward is not guilty of the premises above laid
to his charge, by the declaration aforesaid, as the
said William H. Woodward hath above in pleading
alleged. But if upon the whole matter aforesaid, it
shall seem to the Court here, that the said acts last
mentioned are not valid in law, and are not binding
on the said trustees of Dartmouth College without
acceptance thereof, and assent thereto, by them, so as
render them incapable of maintaining this action,
and that the said acts are repugnant to the constitution
of the United States and void, then the said jurors,
upon their oath, say that the said William H. Woodward is guilty of the premises above laid to his
charge, by the declaration aforesaid, and in that case,
they assess the damages of them, the said trustees of
Dartmouth College, by occasion thereof, at twenty
thousand dollars.
Judgment having been afterwards rendered upon
the said special verdict by the Superior Court of the
State of New-Hampshire, being the highest Court of
law or equity of said State, for the plaintiff below,
the cause was brought before this Court by writ of
error.
Mr. Webster, for the plaintiffs in error. The gene- march
and 1 lth,ioth,
ral question is, whether the acts of the 27th of June, 18i8
and of the 18th and 26th of December, 1816, are

652

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1819.
-

Dartmouth
College
V.

Woodward.

validand binding on the rights of the plaintiffs, without their acceptance or assent.
The substance of the facts recited in the preamble
to the charter is, that Dr. Wheelock had founded a
CHARITY, on funds owned and procured by himself;
that he was, at that time, the sole dispenser and sole
adminisfrator, as well as the legal owner of these
funds ; that he had made his will, devising this property in trust to continue the existence and uses of
the school, and appointed trustees; that,.in this state
of things, he had been invited to fix his- school permanently in New-Hampshire, and to extend the design
of 'it to the education of'the youth of that province;
that, before he removed his school, or accepted this
invitation, which his friends in England had advised
him to accept, lie applied for a charter, to be granted,,
not to whomsoever the king or government of the
province should please, but to such persons as he
named and' appointed, viz. the persons whom he had
already appointed to be the future trustees of his
charity by his will. The Charter, or letters patent,
then proceed to create such a corporation, and to
appoint twelve persons to constitute it, by the name
of the " Trustees of Dartmouth College ;" to have
perpetual. existence, as such corporation, and with
power to hold and dispose of lands and goods, for
the use of the College, with all the ordinary powers
of corporations. They are in their. discretion to
apply the funds and property of the College'to the
support of the president, tutors, ministers, and other
officers of the College, and such missionaries and
schoolmasters as they may see fit to employ among
T.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

653

1t1.
the Indians. There are to be twelve trustees forever, and no more ; and they are to have the right Dartmout4
of filling vacancies occuring in their own body. The College
Rev. Mr. Wheelock is declared to be the FOUNDER WoodwWr.
of the College, and is, by the charter, appointed first.
president, with power-to appoint a successor, by his
last will. All proper powers of government, superintendence, and visitation, are vested in the trustees,
They are to appoint and remove all officers at their
discretion ; to fix their salbiries, and ,issign their duties; and to make all ordinances, orders, and laws) for
-the government of the students. And to the end that
the persons who had acted as depositaries of the contributions in England, and who had also been contributors themselves, might be satisfied of the good
use of their contributions, the president was annually,
or when required, to trasmit to them an account of
the progress of the institution, and the disbursements
of its funds, so long as they should continue to act in
that trust. These letters patent are to be good and
effectual in law, against the king, his heirs and successors .forever, without further grant or confirmation;
and the trustees are to hold all and singular these
privileges, advantages, liberties, and immunities, t9
them and to their successors forever. No funds arc
given to the college by this charter. A corporatq
existence and capacity are given to the trustees, with
the privileges and immunities which have been *mentioned, to enable the fouuder and his associates thf
better to manage the funds which they themselves
had contributed, and such others as they might
afterwards obtain.
VOL. IV.

70

554

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

After the institution, thus created and constituted,
' had existed, uninterruptedly and usefully, nearly fifty
Dartmouth
years, the legislature of New-Hampshire passed the
College
V.
The first act makes the twelve
Woodward. acts in question.
and nine other individuals
the
charter,
under
trustees
to be appointed by the governor and council, a corporation, by a new name ; and to this new corpora119.

tion transfers all the property, rights,powers, liberties,
and privileges of the old corporation.; with further
power to establish

NEW COLI, EGES AND AN INSTITUTE,

and to app:ly all or any part of the fuinds to these purposes, subject to the power and control of a board
of twenty-five overseers, to be appointed by the governor and council. The second act rnmies further
provisions for executing the objects of the first, and
the last act authorizes the defendant, the treasurer of
the plaintiffs, to retain and hold their property, against
their will.
If these acts are valid, the old corporation is abolished, and a new one created. The first act does,
in fact, if it can have effect, create a new corpora..
tion, and transfer to it all the prolperty and franchises
of the old. The two corporations are not the same,
in any thing which essentially belongs to the existence of a corporation. They have different names,
and different powers, rights and duties. Their organization is wholly different. The powers of the
corporation are not vested in the same, or similar
hands. In one, the trustees are twelve, and no more.
In the other, they are twenty-one. In one, the
power is a single board. In the other, it is divided
between two boards. Although the act professes ta

OF THE UNITED STATES.

5,55

l19.
include the old trustees in the new corporation, yet
that was without their assent, and against their re- D"rtmouth
monstrance; and no person can be compelled to bb a College
V,
member of such a corporation against his will. It Woodward.
was neither expected nor intended, that they should
be members of the new corporation. The act itself
treats the old corporation as at an end, and going on
the ground that all its functions have ceased, it pro-

vides for the first meeting and organization of the new
corporation. It expressly provides, also, that the
new corporation shall have and hold all the property
of the old; a provision which would be quite unnecessary upon any other ground, than that the old
corporation was dissolved. But if it could be contended, that the effect of these acts was not entirely
to abolish the old corporation, yet it is manifest that
they impair and invade the rights, property, and powers of the trustees under the charter, as a corporatioU, and the legal rights, privileges, and immunities which belong to them, as individual members of
the corporation. The twelve trustees were the sole
leg;tl owners of all the property acqujired under the
charter. By the acts others are admitted, against
their will, to be joint owners. The twelve individu,
als, who are trustees, were possessed of all the franchises and immunities conferred by the charter. By
the acts, nine other trustees, and twenty-five overseers, are admitted against their will, to divide these
franchises and immunities with them. If, either as
a corporation, or as individuals, they have any legal
rights, this forcible intrusion of others violates those
rights, as manifestly as an entire and complete ouster

556
1819.
Dartmouth

College
Woodward.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

and dispossession. These acts alter the whole constitution of the corporation. They affect the rights
of the whole body, as a corporation, and the rights
of the individuals who compose it. They revoke
corporate powers and franchises. They alienate and
transfer the property of the College to others. By
the charter, the trustees had a right to fill vacancies
in their own number. This is now taken awAy.
They were to consist of twelve, and by express provision, of no more. This is altered. They and
their successors, appointed by themselves, were forever to hold the property. The legislature has found
successors for them, before their seats are Vacant.
The powers and privileges, which the twelve were to
exercise exclusively, are now to be exercised by
others. By one of the acts, they are subjected to
heavy penalties, if they exercise their offices, or
any of those powers and privileges granted them by
charter, and which they had exercised for fifty years.
They are to be punished for not accepting the new
grant, and taking its benefits. This, it must be confessed, is rather a summary mode of settling a question of constitutional right. Not only are new trustees forced into the corporation, but new trusts and
uses are created. The College is turned into a University. Po~yer is given to create new colleges, and
to authorize any diversion of the funds, which may
be agreeable to the new boards, sufficient latitude is
given by the undefined power of establishing an Institute. To these new Colleges, and this Institute,
the funds contributed by the founder, Dr. Wheelock,
and by the original donors, the Earl of Dartmouth

OF THE UNITED STATES.

557

1819.
and others, are to be applied, in plain and manifest
disregard of the uses to which they were given. Dartm~outh
The president, one of the old trustees, had a right to College
his office, salary, and emoluments, subject to the Woodw'ard.
twelve trustees alone. His title to these is now
changed, and he is made accountable to new masters. So also all the professors and tutors. If the
legislature can at pleasure make these alterations and
changes, in the rights and privileges of the plaintiffs,
it may, with equal propriety, abolish these rights and
privileges altogether. The same power which can
do any part of this work, can. accomplish the whole.
And, indeed, the argument, on which these acts have
been hitherto defended, goes altogether on the ground,
that this is such a corporation as the legislature may
abolish at pleasure ; and that its members have no
rights, liberties, franchises, property or privileges,
which the legislature may not revoke, annul, alienate or transfer to others whenever it sees fit.
It will be contended by the plaintiffs, that these acts
are not valid and binding on them without their
assent. 1. Because they are against common right,
and the constitution of New-Hampshire. 2. Because they are repugnant to the constitution of the
United States. I am aware of the limits which
bound the jurisdiction of the Court in this case;
and that on this record nothing can be decided, but
the single question, whether these acts are repugnant to the constitution of the' United States. Yet
it may assist in forming an opinion of their -true nature and character, to- compare them with those fundamental principles, introduced into the State govern-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1819.
*''

Dartmouth

College
V.

Woodward.

ments for the purpose of limiting the exercise of the
legislative power, and whih the constitution of NewHampshire expresses wiih great fullness and accuracy,
It is not too much to assert, that the legislature of
New-Hampshire would not have been competent to
pass the acts in question, and. to make them binditig
on the plaintiffs without their assent, even if there
had been, in the constitution of New-Hampshire, or
of the United States, no special restriction on their
power; because these acts are not the exercise of a
power properly legislativea Their object and ciket
is to take away fiom one, rights, property, and franchises, and to grant them to another This IS not
the exercise of a legislative power. To .justify the
taking away of vested rights, there must he a forfeiture; to ad judge upon and declare which, is the proper province of the judiciary. Attainder and confiscation are acts of sovereign power, not acts of
legislation. The British parliament, among other
unlimited powers, claims that of altering and vacating charters; not as an act of ordinary legislation,
but of uncontrolled authority. It is theoretically omnipotent. Yet, in modern times, it has attempted the
exercise of this power very rarely. In a celebrated
instance, those who asserted this power in parliament,
vindicated its exercise only in a case, in which it
could be shown, 1st. That thecharter in question was
a charter of political power. 2d. That there was a
great and overruling state necessity, justifying the
a Calder et ux. v. Bull, 3 DalU. 386.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

559

1819.
violation of the charter. 3d That the charter had
The bill affecting Dartmouth
been abuised, 2 nd Justly forfeited.a
• '
this charter did not p'ass. Its history is well known. college
The act w' ich afterwards (lid pass, passed with the W.odward.
assent of the coiporation. Even in the worst times,
this power of parliament to repeal and rescind charThe illegal proters has not often been exercised.
ceedings in the reign of Charles II. were under
colour of law. Judgments of forfeiture were obtained in the Courts. Such was the case of the quo
warranto against the city of London, and the proceedings by which the charter of Massachusetts was
vacated. The legislature of New-Hampshire has no
more power over the rights of the plaintiffs than existed, somewhere, in some department of government, before the revolution. The British parliament
could not have annulled or revoked this grant as an
act of ordinary legislation. If it had done it at all,
it could only have been in virtue of that sovereign
power, called omnipotent, which does not belong to
any legislature in the United States. The legislature of New-Hampshire has the same power over
this charter, which belonged to the king, who granted it, and no more. By the law of England, the
power to create corporations is a part of the royal
By the revolution, this power may be
prer4'gative.
considered as having devolved on the legislature of

a Annual Reg. 1784, p. 160. Parlia. Reg. 1783. Mr.
Burke's Speech on Ir.Fox's E. L Bill. Burke's Works, Vol. IIl.
p. 414 417. 467, 468. 486.
k I Bl. Com. 472.

W6

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the State, and it has accordingly been exercised by
legislature. But the king cannot abolish a cortthe
]Dartmouth
or new model it, or alter its powers, without
poration,
College
Woodward. its assent.. This is the acknowledged and well,known doctrine of the common law. " Whatever
might have been the notion in former times," says
Lord Mansfield, 4 it is most certain now, that
the corporations of the universities are lay corporations; and that the crown cannot take away from
ihem any rights that have been formerly subsisting
in them under old charters or prescriptive usage.",
After forfeiture duly found, the king may regrant the
franchises; but a grant of franchises already granted,
and of which no forfeiture has been found, is void.
Corporate franchises can only be forfeited by trial
and judgment.' In case of a new charter or grant
-to an existing corporation, it may accept or reject it
as it pleases.' It may accept such part of the grant
as it chooses, and reject the rest., In the very nature of. things,, a charter cannot be forced upon any
body. No one can be compelled to accept a grant;
and without acceptance the grant is necessarily void.'
It cannot be pretended that the legislature, as successor to the king in this part of his prerogative, has any
power to revoke, vacate,, or alter this charter. If,
therefore, the legislature has not this-pow er by any
1819.

a 3 Burr. 1656.

b 3 T. R. 44. King v. Passmore.
c The King v. Vice Chancellor of Cambridge, 3 Burr. 1656.
3 T. R. 240. per Lord Kenyon.
d Idem, 1661. and King v. Passmore, ubi supra.
e Ellis v. Marshall, 2 Mass. R. 277. 1 Kyd on Corp 65, 66.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

i189.
specific grant contained in the constitution; nor as
included in its ordinary legislative powers; nor by Dartmouth
of the College
reason of its succession to the prerogatives
6
V.
crown in this particular; on what ground would the Woodward.
authority to pass these acts rest, even if there -were
no special prohibitory clauses in the constitution, and
the 'bill of rights-?
But there are prohibitions in the constitution and
bill of rights of New-Hampshire, introduced for the
purpose of limiting the legislative power, and of protecting the rights and property of the citizens. One
prohibition is, "that no person shall be deprived of
his property, immunities or privileges, put out of the
protection of the law, or deprived of his life, liberty,
or estate, but by judgment of his peers, or the law
of the land." In the opinion, however, which was
given in the Court below, it is denied that the trus.
tees, under the charter, had any property, immunity,
liberty or privilege, in this corporation, within the
meaning of this prohibition in the bill of rights. It
is said, that it is a public corporation,and public. property. That the trustees have no greater interest in
it than any other individuals. That it is not private
property, which they can sell, or transmit to. their
heirs; and that, therefore, they, have no interest in it.
That their office is a public trust like that of the governor, or a judge ; and that they have no more concern in the property of the college, than the governor in the property of the State, or than the judges in
the fines which they impose on the culprits at their
bar. That it is nothing to them whether their powers shall be extended or lessened, any more than it is
VOL. IV

71

.562

2CASES IN TH2 SUPREME CouJfI

to the Courts, whether their jurisdiction shall bt en""
larged or diminished. It is necessary therefore, to
Dartmouth a
College inquire into the true nature and character of the cor'Woodward. poration0, which was created by the charter of 1769.
There are divers sorts of corporations ; and it may
be safely admitted, that the legislature has more power over some, than over others.a Some corporations
are for government and political arrangement ; such
for example as cities, counties, and the towns in New
England. These may be changed and modified as
public convenience may require, due regard being
always had to the rights of property. Of such corporations, all who live within the limits are of course
obliged to be members, and to submit to the duties
which the law imposes on them as such. Other civil
corporations are for the advancement of trade, and
business, such as banks, insurance companies, and
the like. These are created, not by general law,
but usually by grant. Their constitution. is special.
It is such as the legislature sees fit to give, and the
grantees to accept.
The corporation in question is not a civil, although
it is a lay corporation. It is an eleemosynary corporation. It is a private charity, originally founded and
endowed by an individual, with a charter obtained for
it at his request, for the better administration of his
charity. "The elcemosynary sort of corporations
are such as are constituted for the perpetual distributions of the free alms or bounty of the founder of
them, to such persons as he has directed. Of this
1819.

ir 1 Voddes. 474.

1 Bl. Gom. 467.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

668

ioi.
are all hospitals for the maintenance of the poor,
all colleges both in our unisick, and impotent ; and
~Dartmouth
versities and out of them."" Eleemosynary corpo- College
rations are for the management of private property, Woodward.
according to the will of the donors. They are private corporations. A college is as much a private
corporation as a hospital; especially a college founded as this was, by private bounty. A college is a
charity. "The establishment of learning," says Lord
Hardwicke, "is a charity, and so considered in the
statute of Elizabeth. A devise to a college, for their
benefit, is a laudable charity, and deserves encourage.
The legal signification of a charity is derived
ment.yb
chiefly from the statute 43 Eliz. c. 4. "Those purposes," says Sir W. Grant, " are considered charitable which that statute enumerates.".0 Colleges are
enumerated as charitiesin that statute. The government, in these cases, lends its aid to perpetuate the
beneficent intention of the donor, by granting a charter, under which his private charity shall continue to
be dispensed, after his death. This is done either by
incorporating the objects of the charity, as, for instance, the scholars in a college, or the poor in a
hospital; or by incorporating those who are to be
governors, or trustees, of the charity.4 In cases of
the first sort, the founder is, by the common law,
visitor. In early times it became a-maxim, that he
who gave the property might regulate it in future.
024jus est dare, ejus est disponere. This right of
visitation descended from the founder to his heir, as
a I B1. Cbm. 471.
c 9 Ves. 406,.

b 1 Ves. 537.
1 Wooddes. 474.

56,4

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

a right of property, and precisely as his other pro
perty went to his heir ; and in default of heirs, it
College
went to the King, as all other property goes to the
V,.
Woodward. King, for the want of heirs. The right of visitation
arises from the property. It grows out of the endowment. The founder may, if lie please, part with it,
at the time when he establishes the charity, and may
vest it in others. Therefore, if he chooses that governors, trustees, or overseers, should be appointed in
the charter, he may cause it to be done, and his
power of visitation will be transferredto thei, instead
1819.
out
Dartmouth

of descending to his heirs. The persons thus assigned or appointed by the founder will be visitors,
With all the powers of the founder, in exclusion of
his heir.a The right of visitation then accrues to
them as a matter of property, by tht gift, transfer,
or appointment of the founder. This is a private
right which they can assert in all legal modes, and
in which they have the same protection of the law
as in all other rights. As visitors, they may make
rules, ordinances, and statutes, and alter and repeal
them, as far as permitted so to do by the charter.'
Although the charter proceeds from the crown, or
the government, it is considered as the will of the
donor. It is obtained at his request. He impos'es it
as the rule which is to prevail in the dispensation of
his bounty in all future times. The king, or government, which grants the charter, is not thereby the
founder, but he who furnishes the funds. The gift
of the revenues is the foundation.c The leading
a 1BI.Com. 47 1.

b 2T.R. 350, 351.

c I B1. Com. 480.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

case on this subject is Phillips v. Bury.o

66
This was.

1819.

an ejeetment brought to recover the rectory house, Dartmouth
&c. of Exeter College, in Oxford. The question College
was, whether the plaintiff or defendant was legal rec- Woodward.
tor. Exeter College was founded by an individual,
and incorporated by a charter granted by Queen
Elizabeth. The controversy turned upon the power
of the visitor, and, in the discussion of the cause, the
nature of College charters and corporations was very
fully considered; and it was determined that the
college was aprivate corporation, and that the founder
had a right to appoint a visitor, and give him such
power as he thought fit.' The learned Bishop Stillingfleet's argument in the same cause, as a member of the
House of Lords, when it was there heard, exhibits very
clearly the nature of colleges and similar corporations.,
These opinions received the sanction of the House
of Lords, and they seem to be settled and undoubted
law. Where there is -a charter, vesting proper
powers of government in trustees, or governors,
they are visitors; and there is no concrol -in any
body else; except only that the Courts of Equity orof law will interfere so far as to preserve the revenues and prevent the perversion of the funds; and to
keep the visitors within their prescribed- bounds.d
a Reported in 1Lord Raymond, 5. Comb. 265. Holt, 715.
4 Mod. 106. Skinn. 447.
b Lord Holt's judgment, copied from his own manuscript, is
in 2 T. R. 346.
c 1 Burns' Eccles. Law, 443.
d Green v. Rutherforth, 1 Ves. 472. Attorney General v.
Foundling Hospital, 2 Ves. jr. 47. Kyd on Corp. 196. Coop.
Eq. PI. 292.

I Show. 360.

66

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

"The foundations of colleges," says Lord Mansou
field, "are to be considered in two views, viz. as
Dartmouth
they are corporations,and as they are eleemosynary.
College
V.
Woodward. As eleemosynary, they are the creatures of the founder; he may delegate his power, either generally or
specially; he may.prescribe particular- modes and
manners, as to the exercise of part of it. If he
makes a general visitor, (as by the general words
visilator sit) the person so constituted has all incidental power; but he may be restrained as to particular
instances. The founder may appoint a special visitor for a particular purpose and no further. The
founder may make a general visitor; and yet appoint an inferior particular power, to be executed
without going to the visitor in the first instance.""
And even if the king be founder, if lie grant a charter incorporating trustees and governors, they are
visitors, and the king cannot visit.' A subsequent
donation, or engrafted fellowship, falls under the
same general visitatorial power, if not otherwise
specially provided.c In New-England, and perhaps
throughout the United States, eleemosynary corpo,
rations have been generally established in the latter
mode, that is, by incbrporating governors or trustees,
and vesting in them the right of visitation. Small
variations may have been in some instances adopted;
as in the case of Harvard College, where some
power of inspection is given to the overseers, but
1819.

a St. John's College, Cambridge v. Todington, 1 Burr. 200.
b Attorney General v. Middleton, 2 Yes. 328.
c Green v. Rutherforth, ubi supra. St. John's College v.
Todington, ubi supra.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

867

1s19.
not, strictly speaking, a visitatorial power, which still
Dartmoutl
meror
fellows,
the
to
belongs, it is apprehended,
bers of the corporation. In general, there are many Colleze
donors.- A charter is obtained, comprising them wooward.
all, or some of them, and such others as they choose
to include, with the right of appointing their successors. They are thus the visitors of their own
charity, and appoint others, such as they may see fit,
to exercise the same office in time to come. All
such corporations are private. The case before the
Court is clearly that of an eleemosynary corporation. It is, in the strictest legal sense, a private
charity. In King v. St. Catherine's Hall,a that college is called a private eleemosynary lay corporation.
It was endowed by a private founder, and incorporated by letters'patent. And in the same manner
was Dartmouth College founded and incorporated.
Dr. Wheelock is declared by the charter to be its
founder. It was established by him, on funds contributed and collected by himself. As such founder, he had a right of visitation, which he assigned
to the trustees, and they received it by his consent
and appointment, and held it under the charter.'
He appointed these trustees visitors, and in that respect to take place of his heir; as he might have appointed devisees to take his estate, instead of his
heir. Little, probably, did he think, at that time,
that the legislature would ever take away this property and these privileges, and give them to others.
Little did he suppose, that this charter secured to
him and his successors no legal rights. Little did
a 4 Term Rep. 23-1.

b B!. Com. ub. sipr

568

CASES 11 THE SUPREME COURT

1819.

the other donors think so.

q

would have been, what' the university is now, a

Dartmouth

College
V.owr.

Woodward.

If they had, the college

thing upon paper, existing only in name. The numerous academies in New-England have been established substantially in the same manner. They
hold their property by the same ten'ure, and no
other. Nor has Harvard College any surer title than
Dartmouth College. It may, to-day, have more
friends; but to-morrow it may have more enemies.
Its legal rights are the same. So also of Yale College; and indeed of all the others. When the legislature gives to these 4lnstitutions, it may, and does,
acc6mpany its grants with such conditions as it
pleases. The grant of lands by the legislature of
New-Hampshire to Dartmouth College, in 1789, was
accompanied with various conditions. When donations are made, by the legislature, or others, to a charity already existing, without any condition, or the
specification of any new use, the donation follows the
nature of the charity. Hence the doctrine, that all
eleemosynary corporations are private bodies. They
are founded by private persons, and on private property. The public cannot be charitable in these institutions. It is not the money of the public, but of
private persons, which is dispensed. It may be public, that is general, in its uses and advantages ; and
the State may very laudably add contributions of its
own to the funds; but it is still private in the tenure
of the property, and in the right of administering
the
funds. If the doctrine laid down by Lord Holt, and
the House of Lords, in Phillips v. Bury, and recognized and established in all the other cases, be cor-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

569

1s19.
rect, the property of this college was private poper*
and
ty ; it was vested in the trustees by the charter,
Dartmouth
to be administered by them, according to the vill of College
V.
the founder and donors, as expressed in the charter. Woodward.
They were also visitors of the charity, in the most
ample sense. They had, therefore, as they contend,
privileges, property, and immunities, within the true
meaning of the bill of rights. They had rights, and
still have them, which they can assert against the legislature, as well as against other wrongdoers. It
makes no difference, that the estate is holden for certain-trusts. The legal estate is still theirs. They
have a right in the property, and they have a right of
visiting and superintending the trust; and this is an
object of legal .protection, as much as any other right.
The charter declares, that the powers conferred on
the trustees, are " privileges, advantages, liberties,
and immunities ;" and that they shall be forever holden by them and their successors. The New-Hampshire bill of rights declares, that no one shall be deprived of his "1 property, privileges, or immunities,"
but by judgment of his peers, or the law of the land.
The argument on the other side is, that although these
terms may mean something in the bill of rights, they
mean nothing in this chartei. But they are terms of
legal signification, and very properly used in the
charter.. They ,are equivalent with franchises.
Blackstone says that-franchise and liberty are used
as synonymous terms. And after enumerating other
liberties and franchises, he says, "it is likewise a
franchise for a n umber of persons to be incorporated
and subsist as a body, politicb, with a power to mainVOL. IV.

72

570

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

181).
Dartmouth

College
V.

Woodward.

tain perpetual succession, and do other corporate acts;
and each individual member of such corporation is
also said to have afranchise orfreedom.-' a Liberties
is the term used in magna charta, as including franchises, privileges, immunities, and all the rights which
belong to that class. Professor Sullivan says, the
term signifies the " privileges that some of the subjects, whether single persons or bodies corporate,
have above others by the lawful grant of the king;
as the chattels of felons or outlaws, and the lands
and privileges of corporations."' The privilege, then,
of being a member of a corporation, under a lawful
grant, and of exercising the rights and powers of such
member, is such -a privilege, liberty, or franchise, as
has been the object of legal protection, and the subject of a legal interest, from the time of magna charta
to the present moment. The plaintiffs have such an
interest in this corporation, individually, as they could
.assert and maintain in a court of law,*not as agents of
the public, but in their own right. Each trustee has
afranchise, and if he be disturbed in the enjoyment
of it, he would have redress, on appealing to the law,
as promptly as for any ;other injury. If the ofther
trustees should conspire against any one of them, to
prevent his equal right and voice in the appointment
of a president or professor,, or in the passing of any
statute or ordinance of the college, he would be entitled to his action, for depriving him of his franchise.
It makes no difference, that this property is to be
.holden and administered, and these franchises exera 2 Bl. Con . 37.

b, ull. 414 Le&.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1819.
No
principle and 'no case establishes any such distinc- Dartmouth
tion. The'public may be benefited by the use of this College
V.
Woodward.
of
property. But this does not change the nature
the property, or the rights of the owners. The object of the charter may be public good ; so it is in
all other corporations; and this would as well justify the resumption or violation of the -grant in any
other case as in this. In the case of an advowson,
the use is public, and the right cannot be turned to
any private benefit or emolument. It is, nevertheless a legal private right, and the property of the
owner, as emphatically as his freehold. The rights
and privileges of trustees, visitors, or governors of
incorporated colleges, stand on the same foundation.
They are soconsidered, both by Lord Holt and Lord
Hardwicke.a To contend that the rights of the
plaintiffs-may be taken away, because they derive
from them no pecuniary benefit, or private emolument, or because they cannot be transmitted to their
heirs, or would not be assets to pay their debts, is
taking an extremely narrow view of the subject.
According to this notion, the case would be different,
if,-in the charter, they had stipulated for a commis.
sion on the disburse'ment of the funds; and they have
ceased to have any interest in the property, because
they have undertaken to administer it gratuitously,
It cannot be necessary to say much in refutation of
the idea, that. there cannot be a legal interest, or

eised, for the purpose of diffusing learning.

a Phillips v. Bury. Green v. Rutherfortb, ubi sntpra. Vide
also 2 Black.,21.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

572

ownership, in any thing which does not yield a pecuas if the law regarded no rights but the
Dartmouth
College rights of money, and of visible tangible property.
V.
Woodworth Of what nature are all rights of suffrage? No elector has a partioular personal interest; but each has a
legal right, tb be exercised at his own dfib~tion, and.
it cannot be taken away from him. The exercise of
this right directly and very materially affects the public ; much more so than the exercise of the privileges
of a trustee of this college. Consequences of the
utmost magnitude may sometimes depend on the exercise of the right of suffrage by one or a few
electors. Nobody was ever yet heard to contend;
however, that on that account the public might take
away the right or impair it. This notion appears to
be borrowed from no better source than the repudiated doctrine of the three judges in the Aylesbury
case.' That was an action against a returning officer,
for refusing the plaintiff's vote, in the election of a
member of parliament. Three of the judges of the
king's bench held, that the action could not be maintained, because, among other objections, " it was not
any ?natter of profit, either in presenti or in futuro."
It would not enrich the plaintiff, in presensi, nor
would it, inffuturo, go to his heirs, or answer to pay
his debts. But Lord Holt and the house of lords
were of another opinion. , The judgment of the
t.reejudges was reversed, and the doctrine they held,
having been. exploded for a century, seems now for
the first time to be revived. Individuals have a-right
1819.

'niary'profit.;

a Ashby

v. )Vhite, 2 Ld. Raym. 938.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

to use their own property for purposes of benevolence,
other indivi'
either towards the public, or towards
duals. They have a right to exercise this benevolence

573
1819.
Dartmouth

College

in such lawful manner as they may choose ; and when woodward.

the government has induced and excited it, by contactring to give perpetuity to the stipulated manner of
exercising it, to rescind this contract, and seize on
the property, is not law, but violence. Whether the
State will grant these franchises, and under what conditions it will grant them, it decides for itself. But
when once granted, the constitution holds them to be
sacred, till forfeited for just cause. That all property, of which the use may be beneficial to the
public, belongs therefore to the public, is quite a new
doctrine. It has no precedent, and is supported by
no known principle. Dr. Wheelock might have answered his purposes, in this case, by executing a private deed of trust,- He might have conveyed his
property to trustees, for precisely such uses as are
described in this charter. Indeed it appears that
he had contemplated the establishing of his school
in that manner, and had made his will, and devised
the property to the same persons who were afterwards appointed trustees in the charter. Many
literary and other charitable institutions are founded in that manner, and the trust is, renewed,
and conferred on other persons, from time to
time, as occasion may require. In such a case,,
no lawyer would or could say, that the legislature
might devest the trustees constituted by deed or will,
seize upon the property, and give it to other persons,
for other purposes. And does the granting of a
charter, which is only done to perpetuate the trust

574

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

in a more convenient manner, make any difference?
or can this change the nature of the charity,
SDoes
Dartmouth
it into a public, political corporation?
turn
and
Colege
V.
Woodward. Happily we are not without authority on this point.
It has been considered and adjudged. Lord Hardwicke says, in so many' words, "The charter of the
crown cannot make a CHARITY more or less public,
but only more permanent than it would otherwise
be." a The granting of the corporation is but
making the trust perpetual, and does not alter the nature of the charity. The very object sought in obtaining such charter, and in giving property to such
a corporation, is to make and keep it private property', and to clothe it with all the security and inviolability of private property. The intent is; that
there shall be a legal private ownership, and that
the legal owners shall maintain and protect the property, for the benefit of those* for whose -use it was
designed. Who ever endowed the public? Who
everappointed a legislature to administer his charity? Or who ever heard, before, that a gift to a
College, or Hospital, or an Asylum, was, in reality,
nothing but a gift to the State? The State of Vekmont is a principal donor to Dartmouth College.
The lands given lie in that State. This appears in
the special verdict. Is Vermont to be considered as
having intended a gift to the State of New-Hampshire
in this case; as it has been said is to be the reasonable construction of all donations to the College ?
'The legislature of New-Hampshire affects to represent the public, and therefore claims a right to con1819.

a Attorney General v. Pearce, 2 Atk. 87.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

575

is19.
trol all property destined to public use. What hinders
Drmot
Vermont from considering herself equally the repre- Dartmouth
V.
sentative of the public, and from resuming her grants, College
Woodward.
less
is
so
do
to
right
Her
at her own pleasure?
doubtful than the power of New..Hampshire to pass
the laws in question. In University v. Foya the Supreme Court of North-Carolina pronounced unconstitutional and void, a law repealing a grant to the,
University of North-Carolina; although that University was originally erected, and endowed by astatute of the State. That case was a grant of lands,.
and the Court decided that it could not be resumed.
This is the grant of a power and capacity to hold
lands. Where is the difference Qf the cases, upon
principle ? In Terret v. T~ylor,b this Court decided, that a legislative grant or confirmation of lands
for.the purposes of moral and religious instruction
could no more be rescinded than other grants. The
nature of the use was not holden to make any difference. A grant to a parish or church, for the purposes which have-been mentioned, cannot be distin- guished, in respect to the title it confers, from a grant
to a College for the promotion of piety and learning.
To the. same purpose may be cited, the case of Pawlett v4 Clark. The State of Vermont, by statute, in
1794, granted to the respective towns in that State,
certain glebe lands lying within those towns,for the
sole use and support of feligious worship. In 1799,
an act was passed to repeal the act of 1794; but this
Court declared, that the act of 1794, "so far as it
a 2 Hey.oad's R.

b 9 Cranch, 43.

576

7ASES IN TIE SUPREME COURT

granted the glebes to the towns, could not afterwards
,be repealed by the legislature,so as to devest the rights
It will be for the other
of the towns under thegrant..
Dartmouth
.
College
side to show, that the nature of the use decides the
v.
1819.

Woodward.

question, whether the legislature has power to resume
its grants. It will be for those who maintain such a
doctrine, to show the principlesand cases upon which
it rests. It will be for them also, to fix the limits
and boundaries of their doctrine, and&to show what
are and what are not, such uses as-to- give the legislature this power of resumption and revocation. And
to furnish an answer to the casescited, it will be for
them further to show, that a grant for the use and
support of ieligious worship, stands on other ground
thadia grant for the pkomolion of piety-and learning.
I hope enough has been said to show, that the
trustees possessed vested liberties, privileges, and
immunities, under this charter ; and that such liber-.
ties, privileges, and immunities, being once lawfully
obtained and vested, are as inviolable as any vested
righlts of property whatever. Rights to do certain
-acts, such, for instance, as the visitation and superintendence of a college, and the appointment of its
officers, may surely be vested rights, to.all legal intents, as completely as the right to possess property.
A late learned Judge of this Court has said, "when
I say, that a right is vested in a citizen, I.mean, that
he has the power to do certain actions, or to possess certain things, according to the law of the
!and."
a 9 Cranch, 292.

6

3 Val, 394.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

If such be the true nature of the plaintiffs' intewhat are the articles in the
....
rests under this charter,
bill of rights which these acts inNew-Hampshire
P
fr
fringe?

T,1g.
t
Dartmouth
College
V.

, Woodward.

.

They infringe the. second article; which says, that
the "itizeis of the State have a right to hold and
pMSess property. The plaintiffs had a legal property
in this charter.; and they had acquired property un.der it. The acts deprive them of both. They im-pair and take away'the charter; and they appropriate the property to new uses, against their consent.
The plaintiffs cannot now hold the, property acquired
by themselves, and which this article says, they have
a right to hold. They infringe the twentieth article.
By that article it is declared, that in questions of
property, there is a right to trial. The plaintiffs are
devested, without trial or judgment. They infringe
the twenty-third article. It is therein declared, that
no retrospective laws shall be passed. This article
bears directly on the case. These acts must be deemed retrospective, within the settled construction of
that term. What a retrospective law is, has been decided, on the construction of this very article, in the
Circuit Court for the first circuit. The learned Judge
of that circuit, says, " every statute which takes
away, or impairs, vested rights, acquired under existing laws, must be deemed retrospective. " " That
all such laws are retrospective, was decided also in
the case of Dash v. Van Kleek,b where a most learna Society v. Wheeler, 2 Gal. 103.
b 7 Johns. R. 477.

VOL. IV.

73

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

578

ed Judge quotes this article from the constitution of
with manifest approbation, as a
plain and clear expression of those fundamental and
unalterable principles of justice, which must lie at
the foundation of every free and just system of laws.
Can any man deny, that the plaintiffs had rights,
under the charter, which were legally vested, and
that by these acts, those rights are impaired?" These

SNew-Hampshire,
Dartmbuth

college

V.

Wood ward.

a " It is a principle in the English law, as ancient as the law
itself," says Chief Justice Kent, in the case last cited, " that a
statute, even of its omnipotent parliament, is not to have a retrospective effect. Nova constitutiofuturisformamimponere debet,
et non praeteritis. (Bracton, lib. 4, Jol. 228. 2 Inst. 292.) The
maxim in Bracton was probably taken from the civil law, for we
find in that system the same principle, that the law-giver cannot
alter his mind to the prejudice of a vested right. Nemo potest
mutare consilium suum in alterius injuriam. (Dig. 50. 17. 75.)
This maxim of Papinian is general in its terms ; but Dr. Tay]or (Elements of the Civil Law, 168.) applies it directly as a restriction upon the law-giver; and a declaration in the code
leaves no doubt as to the sense of the civil law. Leges et constitutionesfuturis certum est dare formarn negotiis, non ad facta
praeteritarevocari, nisi nominatim, et de praeterito tempore, et
adhuc pendentibus negotiis cautum sit. (Cod. 1. 14. 7.) This
passage, according to. the best interpretation of the civilians.
relates not merely to future suits, but to future as contradistinguished from past contracts and vested rights. (Perezii Praelic. t.). It is, indeed, admitted, that the prince may enact a retrospective law, provided it be done expressly; for the will of
the prince, under the despotism of the Roman emperors, was
paramount to every obligation. Great latitude was anciently
allowed to legislative expositions of statutes ; for the separatioa
of the judicial, from the legislative power, -was not then distinctly known or prescribdd. The prince was in the habit of
interpreting his own laws for particular. occasions. This was

siq

OF THE UNITED STATES.

acts infringe also, the thirty-seventh article of the ,

u1.

constitution of
• New-Hampshire; which says, that Dartmouth

the powers of government shall be kept separate.

College

By these acts, the legislature assumes to exercise a Woodward.

judicialpower. It declares a forfeiture, and resumes
franchises, once granted, without trial or hearing.
If the constitution be not altogether waste paper, it
has restrained the power of the legislature, in these
particulars. If it has any meaning, it is, that the legislature shall pass no act directly and manifestly
impairing private property, and private privileges.
It shall not judge, by act. It shall not decide, by
act. It shall not deprive, by act. But it shall leave
all these things to be tried and adjudged by the law
-of the land. The fifteenth article has been referred
called the interlocutio principis; and this, according to Huber's
definition, was, quando principesI inter partes loquuntur, et jus
dicunt. (Praelec. Juris.Rom. Vol. 2. 845.) No correct civi-'
lian, and especially no proud admirer of the ancient republic,
(if any such then existed,) could have reflected on this interference with private rights, and pending suits, without disgust
and indignation ; and we are rather surprised to find, that under
the violent and irregular genius of the Roman government, the
principle before us should have been acknowledged and obeyod to the extent in which we find it. The fact shows,- that it
must be founded in the clearest justice. Our case is happily
very different from that of the subjects of Justinian. With us,
the power of the law-giver is limited and defined ; the judicial
is regarded as a distinct independent power; private rights have
been better understood, and more exalted in public estimation,
as well as secured by provisions dictated by the spirit of freedom, and unknown to the civil law. Our constitutions do not
admit the power assumed by the Roman prince ;-and the principle we are considering, is now to be regarded as sacred."

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Sao

It declares, that no one shall be " dem
prived of his property, immunities; or privileges, but
College by the judgment of his peers, or the law of the land."
W.&.rd. Notwithstanding the light in which the learned
Judges in New-Hampshire viewed the rights of the
plaintiffs under the charter, and which has been before adverted to, it is found to be admitted, in their
opinion, that those rights are privileges within
the meaning of this fifteenth article of the bill of
rights. Having quoted that article, they say : "that.
the right to manage the affairs of this college is a
privilege, within the meaning of this clause of the
bill of rights, is not to be doubted." In my humble
opinion, this surrenders -the point. To resist the effect of this admission, however, the, learned judges
add, " But how a privilege can be protected from the
operation of the law of the land, by a clause in the
constitution, declaring that it shall not be taken away
but by the law of the land, is not very easily understood." This answer goes on the ground, that the
acts in question are laws of the land, within the
meaning .ofthe constitution. If they be so, the argument drawn from this article is fully answered. If
they be not so, it being admitted that the plaintiffs'
rights are "privileges," within the meaning of the
article, the argument is not answered, and the article
is infringed by the acts. Are then these acts of the
legislature, which affect only'particular persons and
their particular privileges, laws of the land ? Let
this.question be answered by the text of Blackstone:
And first, it (i. e. law) is a rule : not a transient
sudden- order from a superior, to, or concerning, a parlg19.

to before.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

581

ticular person ; but something permanent, uniform,. 189.
'
and universal. Therefore, a particular act of the Dartmouth
legislature to confiscate the goods of Titius, or to College
attaint him ofhigh treason, does not enter into the Woowar.
idea of a municipal law: for the operation of this
act is spent upon Titius only, and has no relation to
the community in general; it is rather a sentence
than a law." o Lord Coke is.equally decisive and emphatic. Citing and commenting on the celebrated
29th chap. of Magna Charta, he says, "no man
shall be disseized, &c. unless it be by the lawful
judgment, that is, verdict of equals, or by the law
of the land, that is, (to speak it once for all,) by the
due course and process of law. ''b Have the plaintiffs
lost their franchises by "due course and process of
law?" On the contrary, are not. these acts "particular acts of the legislature, which have no relation
to the community in. general, and which are rather
sentences than laws ?" By the law of the land is
most clearly intended the general law;"a law, which
hears before it condemns ; which proceeds upon inquiry, and renders judgment only after trial. The
meaning' is, that every citizen shall hold his life,
liberty, property, and immunities, under the protectibn of the general rules which govern society. Every
thing which may pass under the form of.an enactinent, is not, therefore, to be considered the law of
the land. If this were so, acts of attainler, bills of
pains and penalties, acts of confiscation, acts reversing judgments, and acts directly transferring one man's
a I B1. Com. 44.

I b Co. Ins. 46.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

682

estate to another, legislative judgments, decrees, and
forfeitures, in all possible forms would be the law of
Dartmouth
the land. Such a strange construction would render
College
Woodward. constitutiopal provisions of the highest importance
completely inoperative and void. It would tend directly to establish the union of all powers in the
legislature. There would be no general permanent
law for courts to administer, or for men to live under. The administration of justice would be an
empty form, an idle ceremony. Judges would sit to
execute legislative judgments and decrees; not to
declare the law, or- to administer the justice of the
country. " Is that the law of the land," said Mr.
Burke, " upon which, if a man go to WestminsterHall, and ask counsel by what title or tenure he holds
his privilege or estate accordingto the law of the land,
he should be told, that the law of the land is not yet
known ; that no decision or decree has been made
in his case; that when a decree shall be passed, he
will then know what the law of the land is? Will
this be said to be the law of the land, by any lawyer
who has a rag of a gown left upon his back, or a
wig with one tie upon his head ?" That the power
of electing and appointing the Officers of this cob.
lege is not only a right of the trustees as a-corporation generally, and in the aggregate, but that each individual trustee has also his own individualfranchise
in such right of election and appointment, is according to the language of all the authorities. Lord Holt
says, "it is agreeable to reason and the rules of law,
that a franchise should be vested in the corporation
aggregate, and yet the benefit of it to redound to the
1819.
'

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1819.
particular members, and to be enjoyed by them in
their private capacity. Where the privilege of elec- Datouth
tion is used by particular persons, it is- a particular College
V.
Woodward.
right, vested in every particularman.
It is also to be considered, that the president and
professors of this college have rights to be affected
by these acts. Their, interest is similar to that of
fellows in the English colleges; because they derive
their living wholly, or in part, from the founder's.
bounty. The president is one of the trustees, or
corporators. The professors are not necessarily
members of the corporation; but they are appointed
by the trustees, are removable only by them, and
have fixed salaries, payable out of the general funds
of the college. Both president and professors have
freeholds in their offices; subject only to be removed,
by the trustees, as their legal visitors, for good cause.
All the authorities speak of fellowships in colleges
asfreeholds, notwithstanding the fellows may be liable to be suspended or removed, for misbehaviour, by
their constituted visitors. Nothing could have been
less expected, in this age, than that there should have
been an attempt, by acts of the legislature, to take
away these college livings, the inadequate, but the
orly support of literary men, who have devoted their
lives to the instruction of youth. The president and
professors were appointed by the twelve trustees.
They were accountable to nobody else, and could be
removed by nobody else. They accepted their offices
on this tenure. Yet the legislature has appointed
a.2 Lord Raqrn. 912.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

other persons, with power to remove these officers,
~
and to ]eprive them of their livings ; and those other
Dartmouth
1819.

persons have exercised that power. No description
Woodward. of private prop.erty has been regarded as more sacred
than college livings. They are the estates and freeholds of a most deserving class of men; of scholars
who have consentd to forego the advantages of professional and public employments, and to devote themselves to science and literature, and the instruction of
youth, in the quiet retreats of academic life. Whether, to dispossess and oust theni ; to deprive them of
their office, and turn them out of their livings ; to do
this, not by the power of their legal visitors, or governors, but by acts of the legislature; and to do it
without forfeiture, and without fault ; whether all
this be not in the highest degree an indefensible and
arbitrary proceeding, is a question, of which there
would seem to be but one side fit for a lawyer or a
scholar to espouse. Of all the attempts of James II.
to overturn the law, and the rights of'his subjects,
none was esteelned more arbitrary or tyranical, than
his attack on Magdalen College, Oxford : And, yet,
that attempt was nothing but to put out one president and put in another. The president of that college, according to the charter and statutes, is'to be
chosen by the fellows, who are the corporators.
There being a vacancy, the king chose to take the
appointment out of the hands of the fellows, the
legal electors of a president, into his own hands.
He therefore sent down his mandate commanding the
fellows to admit, for president, a person of his nomination ; and in as much as this was directly. against
Collcge

OF THE UNITED STATES.

585

the charter and constitution of the college, he was

1819.
pleased to add a non obstante clause of sufficiently YDartmouth

comprehensive import. The fellows were command- College
V.
ed to admit the person mentioned in the mandate, Woodward.
" any statute, custom or constitution to the contrary
notwithstanding,wherewith we'are graciously pleased
to dispense, in this behalf." The fellows refused
obedience to this mandate, and Dr. Hough, a man
of independence and character, was chosen president
by the fellows, according to the charter and statutes.
The king then assumed the power, in virtue of his
prerogative, to send down certain commissioners to
turn him out; which was done accordingly ;.and Parker, a creature suited to the times put in his place.
And because the president, who was rightfully and
legally elected, would not deliver the keys, the doors
voere broken open. "The nation, as well as the
university," says Bishop Burnet,a " looked on all
these proceedings with just indignation. It was
thought an open piece of robbery and burglary, when
men, authorized by no legal commission, came and
forcibly turned men out of their possession andfreehold." Mr. Hume, although a man of different
temper, and of other sentiments, in some respects,
than Dr. Burnet, speaks of this arbitrary attempt of
prerogative, in terms not less decisive. "The president, and all the fellows," says he, "except two,
who complied, were expelled the college; and Parker was put in possession of the office. This act of
violence, of all those which were committed during
a Hist. of his own times, vol. 3. p. 119.
'VIOL:. IV.

74

686
1819.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the reign of James, is perhaps the most illegal and

arbitrary. When the dispensing power was the
College most strenuously insisted on by court lawyers, it
V.
Woodward. had still been allowed, that the statutes which regard private property could not legally be infringed
by that prerogative. Yet, in this instance, it appeared that even these were not now secure from invasion. The privileges of a college are attacked;
men are illegally dispossessed of their Froperty for
adhering to their duty, to their oaths, and to their
religion." This measure king James lived to repent, after repentance was too late. When the charter of London was restored, and other measures of
Dartmouth

violence retracted,-to avert the impending revolution,
the-expelled president and fellows of- Magdalen college were permitted to resume their rights. It is evident that this was regarded as an arbitrary interference with private property. Yet private property
was no otherwise attacked, than as a person was appointed to administer and enjoy the revenues of a
college, in a manner and by persons not authorized by
the constitution of the college. A majority of the
members of the corporation would not comply with
the king's wishes. A minority would. The object
was, therefore, to make this minority, a majority.
To this end, the king's commissioners were directed
to interfere in the case, and they united with the
two complying fellowsi, and expelled the rest; and
thus-effected a change in the government of the college. The language in which Mr. Hume, and all
other writers, speak of this abortive attempt of oppression, shows that colleges were esteemed to-be, as

OF THE UNITED STATES.

they truly are, private corporations, and the property
property,
and privileges which belong to them,private
,

587
1819.
Dartmouth
Dartmouth

and private privileges. Court lawyers were found to College
.v.
justify the king in dispensing with the laws; that is, Woodward,
in assuming and exercising a Legislative authority. But no lawyer, not even a court lawyer,
in the reign of king James the second, as far as
appears, was found to say, that even by this high
authority, he could infringe the franchises of the
fellows of a college, and take away their livings.
Mr. Hume gives the reason; it is, that such franchises were regarded, in a most emphatic sense, as
private properly.a If it could be made to appear,
that the trustees and the president and professors held*
their offices and franchises during the pleasure.,of the
legislature, and that the property holden belonged to
the State, then indeed the legislature have done no
more than they had a right to do. But this is not so.
The charter is P charter of privileges and immunities; and these are holden by the trustees expressly
against the State forever. It is admitted, that the
State, by its Courts of law, can enforce the will of
the donor, and compel a faithful execution of the
trust. The plaintiffs claim no exemption from legal
responsibility. They hold themselves at all times
answerable to the law of the land, for their conduct in the trust committed to them. They ask
only to hold the property of which they are owners,
and the franchises which belong to them, until they
shall be found by due course and process of lai to
have forfeited them. It can make no difference,
a Vide a full account of this case in State Trials,, 4 Ed.
-Tol. 4. p. 262.

588

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

whether the legislature exercise the power it has astsumed, by removing the trustees and the president
]Dartmouth
Colege and professors, directly, and by'name, or by appointWoodward. ing others to expel them. The principle is the same,
and, in point of fact, the result has been the same.
If the entire franchise cannot be.taken away, neither
can it be essentially impaired. If the trustees are
legal owners of the property, they are sole owners.
If they are visitors, they are sole visitors. 'No one
will be found th say, that if the legislature may do
what it has done, it may not do any thing and every
thing which it may choose to do, relative to the property of the corporation, and the privileges of its
members and officers.
If the view which has been taken of this question be at all correct, this was an eleemosynary corporation ; a private charity. The property was private property. The trustees were visitors, and their
right'to hold the charter, administer the funds, and
visit and govern the college, was afranchsse and privilege, solemnly granted to them. The use being
public, in no way diminishes their legal estate in the
property, or their title to the franchise. There is no
principle, nor any case, which declares that a gift to
such a corporation is a gift to the public. The acts
in question violate property. They take away privileges, immunities, and franchises. They deny to
the trustees the protection of the law ; and they are
retrospective in their operation. In all which respects,
they are against the-constitution of New-Hampshire.
2. The plaintiffs contend, in the second place, that
the acts in questionare repugnant to the 10th-section
1819.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

of the 1st article of the constitution. of the United

589
1819.

States. The material words of that section are: Dartmouth
"no State shall pass any bill of attainder, ex post College
facto law, or law impairing the obligation of con- Woodward.
tracts."
The object of these most important provisions in
the national constitution has often been discussed,
both here and elsewhere. it is exhibited with great
clearness and force by one of the distinguished persons who framed that instrument. "Bills of attainder, ex post facto laws, and laws impairing the obligation of contracts, are contrary to the first principles of the social compact, and to every principle
of sound legislation. The two former are -expressly
prohibited by the declarations prefixed to some of the
State constitutions, and all of them are prohibited
by the spirit and scope of these fundamental - charters. Our own experience has taught us, nevertheless, that additional fences against these dangers
ought not to be omitted. Very properly, therefore,
have the Convention added this constitutional bulwark in favour of personal security and private rights;
and I am much deceived if they have not, in so doing, as faithfully consulted the genuine sentiments as
the undoubted interests of their constituents. The
sober people of America are weary of the fluctuating
policy which has directed the public councils. They
have seen with regret, and with indignation, that sudden changes, and legislative interferences, in cases
affecting personal rights, become jobs in the hands of
enterprising and influential speculators ; and snares
to the more industrious and less informed part of the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1819.
Dartmouth

community. They have seen, too, that one legislainterference is but the link of a long chain of

Stive

repetitions; every subsequent interference being napreceding.""
Woodward. turally produced by the effects of the
that a
in
this
Court,
decided
been
has
already
It
grant is a contract, within the meaning of this
provision; and that a grant by a State is also a
College
V.

contract as much as the grant of an individual.'
a Letters of Publius, or The Federalist, (No. 44., by Mr. MA]DISON.)

b In Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch 87. this Court says, "a contract is a compact between two or more parties, and is either
executory or executed. An executory contract is one in which
a party binds himself to do, or not to do, a particular thing ;
such was the law under which the conveyance was made by
the government. A contract executed is one in which the object of contract is performed ; and this, says Blackstone, differs in nothing from a grant. The contract between Georgia
and the purchasers was executed by the grant. A contract
executed, as well as one which is executory, contains obligations binding on the parties. A grant, in its own nature,
amounts to an extinguishment of the right of the grantor, and
implies a contract not to reassert that right. If under a fair
construction of the constitution, grants are comprehended
under the term contracts, is a grant from the State excluded
from the.operation of the provision ? Is the clause to be con-

sidered as inhibiting the State-from impairing the obligation of
contracts between two individuals, but as excluding from that
inhibition contracts made with itself? The words themselves
contain no such distinction. They are general, and are applicable to contracts of every description. If contracts made
with the State are to be exempted from their operation, the
exception must arise from the character of the contracting
party, not from the words which are employed. Whatever
respect might have been felt for the State sovereignties, it is nat

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1819.
It has also been decided, that a grant by a State
a
as
protected
to
be
as
much
is
revolution,
before the
Dartmouth
grant since.a But the case of Terret v. Taylor, be- College
fore cited, is of all others most pertinent to the present Wodwar.
argument. Indeed, the judgment of the Court in
that case seems to leave little to be argued or decided
in this.' This Court, then, does not admit the docto be dicuised, that the framers of the constitution viewed,
with some apprehension, the violent acts which might grow
out of the feelings of the moment ; and that the people of the
United St:.tes, in a,lopting that instrument, have manifested a
determination to shield themselves, and their property, from
the effects of those sudden and strong passions to which men
are exposed. The restrictions on the legislative power of the
States, are obviously founded in this sentiment ; and the constitution of the United States contains what -may be deemed a
bill of rights, for the people of each State."
a New-Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Crach, 164.
b " A private corporation," says the Court, " created by
the legislature, may lose its franchises by a misuser or a nonuser
of them ; and they may be resumed by the government under a
judicial judgment upon a quo warranto to ascertain and enforce
This is the common law of the land, and is a
the forfeiture
tacit condition annexed to the creation of every such corporation. Upon a change of government, too, it may be admitted
that such exc.lusive privileges attached to a private cQrporation as are inconsistent with the new government, may be abolished. In renlpect, also, to public corporations- which exist
only for public purposes, such as counties, towns, cities, &C.
the legislature may, under proper limitations, have a right to
ehange modify, enlarge, or restrain them, securing, however,
the property for the use of those for whom and at whose expense it was originally purchased. But that the legislature can
repeal st;,ietes creating private corporations, or confirming to

them property already acquired under the faith of previous

592
1819.

1_

Dartmouth
College
V.
Woodward.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

trine, that a legislature can repeal statutes creating
private corporations. Ifitcannot repeal them altoe
gether, of course it cannot repeal any part of- them,
or impair them, or essentially alter them, without the
consent of the corporators. If, therefore, it has
been shown that this college is to be regarded as a
private charity, this case is embraced within the very
terms of that decision.- A grant of corporate powers and privileges is as much a contract as a grant of
land. What proves all charters of this sort to
be contracts, is, that they must be accepted, to
give them force and effect. If they are not accepted hley are void. And in the case of an existing corporation, if a new charter is given it, it may
even accept part, and reject the rest. In Rex v. Vice
Chancellor of Cambridge," Lord Mansfield says;
"there is a vast deal of difference between a new
charter granted to a new corporation, (who musi
take it as it is given,) and a new charter given to a
corporation already in being, and acting either under
a former charter, or under prescriptive usage. The
latter, a corporation already existing, are not obliged
to accept the new charter in toto, and to receive either
all or none of it; they may act partly under it, and
laws, and by such repeal can vest the property of such corpo.
rations exclusively in the State, or dispose of the same to such
purposes as they please, without the consent or default of the
corporators, we are notprepared to admit ; and we think ourselves standing upon the principles of natural justice, upon the
,fundamental laws of every free government, upon the spirit and
letter of the constitution of the United States, and upon the
decisions of most respectable judicial tribunals, in resisting
such a doctrine."
a 3 Burr. 1656.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

partly under their old charter or prescription. The
validity of these new charters Imust turn
' upon the ac-

593
i9i.
Dartmouth

ceptance of them." In the same case, Mr. Justice College
Wilmot says, " It is the concurrence and acceptance Woodati.
of the university that gives the force to the charter of
the crown." In the King v. Passmore,a Lord Kenyon observes, " some things are clear: when a corporation exists, capable of discharging its functions,
the crown cannot obtrude another charterupon them ;
they may either accept or reject it.'" In all cases relative to charters, the acceptance of them is uniformly
alleged in the pleadings. This shows the general
understanding of the law, that they are grautk" or
contracts; and thatparties-arenecessary to give them
force and validity. In King v. Dr. Askewc it is
said, "The crown cannot oblige a man to be a corporator without his consent; he shall not be subject
to the inconveniences of it, without accepting it and
acceptance," and
assenting to it." These terms,
"assentS' are the very language of contract. In
Ellis v. Marshali, ' it was expressly adjudged, that
the naming of the defendant, among others,- in -an act
of incorporation-did not, of itself, make him a corporator; and that his assent was necessary to that
end. The Coult speak of the act of incorporationt
as a grant, and observe, "4that a man may refuse a
grant, whether from the government-or an individual,
seems to be a principle too clear to require the support of authorities." -But Mr. Justice Buller, in King
.a 3 T. R. 240.
c 4 Burr. 2200.

VoL, IV

b Vide also, I Kyd. on, Cor. 65.

d 2 Mrass. R. 1279.

594

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

v. Passmore, furnishes, if possible, a still more direct
Speaking of a corporation
Dartmouth and explicit authority.
for government, he says, " I do not know how to
College
Woodward. reason on this point better than in the manner urged
by one of the relator's counsel, who considered the
grant of incorporation to be a compact between the
crown and a certain number of the subjects, the latter of whom undertake, in consideration of the privileges which, are bestowed, to exert themselves for
the good government of the place." This language
applies, with peculiar propriety and force, to the case
before the Court. It was in consequence of the
p[rivileges bestowed," that Dr. Wheelock and his
associates,. undertook to exert themselves for the instruction and education of youth in this college; and
it was on the same consideration that the founder
endowed it with his property. And because charters of incorporation are of the nature of contracts,
they 'cannot be altered or varied, but by. consent of
the original parties. If a charter be granted by the
king, it may be altered by a new charter granted by
theking, and accepted by the corporators But if
the first charter be granted by parliament, the consent of parliament must be bbtained to any alteration. In King v. Miller," Lord Kenyon says, "Where
a corporation takes its rise from the king's charter,
the king by granting, and the corporation by accepting, another charter, may alter it,, because it is done
with the consent of all the parties who are competent to consent to the alteration.-"b There are, in this
1819.

a 6 T. R., 277.

b'Vide also, 2 Bro. Ch. R. 662. Ex parte Bolton 8chool.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1819.
aase, all the essential constituent parts of a contract.
contracted about; there are 'nt
There is something to be ~Dartmouth
parties, and there are plain terms in which the agree- College
V.

ment of the parties, on the subject of the contract, is Woodward.

expressed. There are mutual considerations and inducements. The charter recites, that the founder,
on his part, has agreed to establish his seminary in
New-Hampshire, and to enlarge it, beyond its origi-

nal design, among other things, for the benefit of that
province ; and thereupon a charter is given to him and
his associates, designated by himself, promising and
assuring to them, under the plighted faith of the State,
the right of governing the college, and administering
its concerns, in the manner provided in the charter.
There is a complete and perfect grant to them of all
the power of superintendance, visitation, and government. Is not this a contract ? If lands or money had
been granted to him and his associates, for the same
purposes, such grant could not be rescinded. And is
there any difference, in legal contemplation, between
a grant of corporate franchises, and a grant of tangible property ? No such difference is recognized in
any decided case, nor does it exist in the common
apprehension of mankind.
It is therefore contended, that this case falls within
the true meaning-of this provision of the-constitution,
a's: expounded-in the decisions of this Court ; that the
charter of 1769, is a contract, a stipulation, or agreement; mutual in its considerations, express and formal in its terms, and of a most binding and solemn
nature. That the acts in question impair this con-

,596

CASES 11 THE SUPREME COURT

tract, has already been sufficiently shown. They
Dar-mout
Dartmouth repeal and abrogate its most essential parts.
College
Much has heretofore been said on the necessity of
W~odw,rd. admitting such a power in the legislature as has been
assumed in this case. Many cases of possible eyil
have been imagined, which might otherwise be without remedy. Abuses, it is contended, might arise in
the management of such institutions, which the ordinary courts of law would be unable to correct.
But this is only another instance of that habit of sup.
posing extreme cases, and then of reasoning from
them, which is the constant refuge of those who are
obliged to defend a cause which, upon its merits i is
indefensible. It would be sufficient to say, in answer, that it is not pretended, that there was here
any such case of necessity. But a still more satisfactory answer is, that the apprehension of danger
is groundless, and, therefore, the whole argument
fails. Experience has not taught us that there is
danger of great evils or of great inconvenience from
this source. Hitherto, neither in our own country
nor elsewhere, have such cases of necessity occurred.
The judicial establishments of the State are presumed to be competent to prevent abuses and vi0lations of trust, in cases of this kind, as well as in all
others. If they be not, they are imperfect, and their
amendment would be a most proper subject for legislative wisdom. Under the government and protection of the general laws of the land, those iastitutions have always been found safe, as well as useful.
They go on with the progress of society, accomodating themselves easily, Without sudden change or
1819.

OF THEUNITED STATES.

597

1819.
violence, to the alterations which take place in its
condition; and in the knowledge, the habits, and 1
pursuits of men. The English colleges were found- college
ed in Catholic ages. Their religion was reformed WoodaLd.
with the general reformation of the nation; and they
are suited perfectly well to the purpose of educating
the protestant youth of modern times. Dartmouth
College was established under a charter granted by
.the provincial government ; but a' better constitution
for a college, or one more adapted to the condition of
things under the present government, in all material
respects, could not now be framed. Nothing in it
was found to need alteration at the revolution. The
wise men of that day saw in it one of the best hopes
of future times, and commended it, as it was, with
parental care, to the protection and guardianship of
the government of the State. A charter of more
liberal sentiments, of wiser provisions, drawn with
more care, or in a better spirit, could not be expected at any time, or from any source. The college
needed no change in its organization or government.
That which it did need was the kindness, the patronage, the bounty of the legislature; not a mock elevation to the character of a university, without the
solid benefit of a shilling's donation to sustain the
character; not the swelling and empty authority of
establishing institutes and other colleges. This unsubstantial pageantry would seem to have been in
derision of the scanty endowment and limited means
of an unobtrusive, but useful and growing seminary.
Least of all was there a necessity, or pretence of ne-,
eessity, to infringe its legal rights, violate its fran-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

chises and privileges, and pour upon it these overSwhelming streams of litigation. But this argument,
Dartmouth
College
from necessity, would equally apply in all other cases.
Woodward. If it be well founded, it would prove, that whenever
any inconvenience or evil should be experienced from
the restrictions imposed on the legislature by the
constitution, these restrictions ought to be disregarded. It is enough to say, that the people have -thought
otherwise.' They have, most wisely, chosen to take
the risk of occasional inconvenience from the want
-of power, in order that there might be a settled limit
to its exercise, and a permanent security against its
abuse. They have imposed prohibitions and restraints ; and they have not rendered these altogether
vain and nugatory by conferring the power of disIpensation. If inconvenience should arise, which
conthe legislature cannot remedy under the power
ferred upon it, it is not answerable for such inconvenience. That which it cannot do within the limits
prescribed to it, it cannot do at all. No legislature
in this coutry is able, and may the time .never come
when it shall be able, to apply to itself the memorable expression of a. Roman pontiff; "Licet hoc DE
JURE non possumus, volumus tamen DE PLENITUDINE
1819.

POTESTATIS."

The case before the Court is not of ordinary importance, nor of every day occurrence., It affects
not this college only, but every college, and all:the
literary institutions of the country. Thiey have
flourished,. hitherto, and have become in a high degree respectable and useful to the Community. They.
have all a common principle of existence, the invio-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1819.
lability of their charters. It will be a dangerous,-a
most dangerous experiment, to hold these institu- Dartmouth
tions subject to the rise and fall of popular parties, College
and the fluctuations of political opinions. If the Woodward.
franchise may be at any time taken away, or impaired, the property also may be taken away, or its use
perverted. Benefactors will have no certainty of
effecting the object of their bounty; and learned
men will be deterred from devoting themselves to the
service of such institutions, from the precarious title
of their offices. Colleges and halls will be deserted
by all better spirits, and become a theatre for the
contention of politics. Party and faction will be
eherished in the places consecrated to piety and learning. These consequences are neither remote nor
possible only. They are certain and immediate.
When the Court in North-Carolina declared the
law of the State, which repealed a grant to its university, unconstitutional and void, the legislature had
the candour and the wisdom to repeal the law. This
example, so honourable to the State which exhibited
it, is most fit to be followed on this occasion. And
there is good reason to hope, that a State -which
has hitherto been so much distinguished for .tempeperate councils, cautious legislation, and regard to
law, will not fail to adopt a course which will accord with her highest and best interest, and, in no
small degree, elevate her reputation. It was for
many obvious reasons most anxiously desired, that
the question of the power of the legislature over this
charter should have been finally decided in the
State Court. An earnest hope was entertained

600

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

that the judges of that Court might have viewed
Sthe
case in a light favourable to the rights, of the
Dartmouth
College trustees. That hope has failed. It is here that those
.dV. rights are now to be maintained, or
they are prosWoodward.
trated forever. Omnia alia perfugia bonorum, subsidia, consilia, auxilia,jura ceciderunt. Quem enim
alium appellem ? quem obtestor ? quem implorem.
Nisi hoc loco, nisi apud vos, nisi per vos, judices, salutem nostram, quae spe exigua extremaque pendet,
temerimus; nihil est preeterea quo confugere possimus.
1819.

Mr. Holmes for the defendant in error, argued,
that the prohibition in the constitution of the United
States, which alone gives the Court jurisdiction in
this case, did not extend to grants of political power;
to contracts concerning the internal government and
police of a sovereign State. Nor does it extend to
contracts which relate merely to matters of civil institution, even of a private nature. Thus marriage
is a contract, and a private contract; but relating
merely to a matter of civil institution, which every
society has an inherent right to regulate as its own
wisdom may dictate, it cannot be considered as within the spirit of this prohibitory clause. Divorces unquestionably impair the obligation of the nuptial
contract ; they change the 'relations of the marriage
'state, without the consent of both the parties, and
thus come clearly within the letter of the prohibition.' But surely, no one will contend, that there is
locked up in this mystical clause of the constitutiorn
a prohibition to the States to grant divorces, a power

OF 'rHE UIMITED STATES.

peculiarly appropriate to domestic legislationi and
Which has been exercised in every age and na-

0oi
1519.
Dartmouth

tion where civilization has produced that corruption college
V.
waodwarl
rethis
requires
unfortunately)
which,
of -manners,
medy. Still less can a contract concerning a public
office to be exercised, or duty to be performed, be in.
cluded within this prohibition. The Convention who
framed the constitution, did not intend to interfere in
the exercise of the political powers reserved to the
State governments. That was left to be regulated by
their own l6cal laws and constitutions; with this exception only, that the Union should guarantee to
each State a republican form of government, and defend it against domestic. insurrection and rebelliom
Beyond this, the authorities of the Union have no
right to interfere in the exercise of the powers reserved to the State. They are sovereign and independent in their own sphere. If, for example, the
legislature of a particular State should attempt to
deprive the judges of its Courts (who,.by the State
constitution, held their places during good behaviour)
of their offices without a trial by impeachment; or
should arbitrarily and capriciously increase the number of the judges so as to give the preponderancy in
judicature to the prevailing political faction, would
it be pretended that the minority could resist such a
law, upon the ground of its impairing the obligation
of a contract? Must not the remedy, if any where
existing, be found in the interposition of some State
authority,to: enforce the provisions of the State constitution ? The education of youth, and the encouragemient of the arts and sciences, is oue of the most
Vo,. Iv.

78

602.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

important objects of civil gove rment.G By our conD
o
stitutions, it is left exclusively to the .States, with the
P[arbnouth
exception of copy rights and patents. It was in the
College
V.
Woodward. exercise of this duty of government, that this charter was originally granted to Dartmouth College.
Even when first granted under the colonial government, it was subject to the notorious authority of the
British parliament over all charters containing grants
of political power. It might have been revoked or
The revolution,
modified by act of parliament.'
parent country,
the
from
colony
the
which separated
dissolved all connexion between this corporation and
the crown of Great Britain. But it did not destroy
that supreme authority which every political society
has over its public institutions.. That still remained,
and was transferred to the people of New- Hampshire. They have not relinquished it to the government of the United States, or to any department of
that government. Neither does the constitution of
New-Hampshire confirm the charter of Dartmouth
College, so as to give it the immutability Of the fundamental law. On the contrary, the constitution of
the State admonishes the legislature of the duty of
encouraging science and literature, and thus seems
to suppose its power of control over the scientific and
literary institutions of the State. The legislature
had, therefore, a right to modify this trust, the original object of which, was the education of the Indian
and English youth of the province. It is not'.necesoary to contend. that it had the right of wholly di119.

Vaitd, -,, 1. c. 11. s. 112,113.

b I BL. Comn. 485.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

verting the fund from the original object of its pious

119.

and'benevolent founders.; Still it must be insisted

" '
Dartmouth

that a rigal grant, with a regal and colonial policy,

Collego
V.,

necessarily became subject to the modification of a woodwara.

republican legislature, whose right, and whose duty
it was, to adapt the education of the youth of the
country to the change in its political institutions. It
is a corollary from the right of self-government.
The ordinary remedies which are furnished in the
Court for a misuser of the corporate franchises, are
not adapted to the great exigencies of a revolution in
government. They pre-suppose a permanently established order of things, and are intended only to
correct occasional deviations, and minor mischiefs.
But neither a refbrmation inreligion, nor a revolution in government, can be accomplished or confirmed
by a writ of quo warranto or mandamus. We do
not say, that the corporation has forfeited its charter
for misuser; but that it has become unfitfor use by
a change of circumstances. Nor does the lapse of
time from 1776 to 1816, infer an acquiescence on the
part of the legislature, or a renunciation of its right
to abolish or reform an institution, which being of a
public nature, cannot hold its privileges by prescription. Our argument is, that it is, at all times, liable
to be new modelled by the legislative wisdom, instructed by the lights of the age.
that this charter is not.
The conclusion then is,
such a contract as is contemplated by the constitution of the Uiited States ; that it is not a contract
of a private nature, concerning property or other private interests: but thatit is a -grant of a public na-.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

604

ture, for public purposes, relative to the internal goand police of a State, and, therefore, liable
Dartmouth
College' to be revoked or modified by the supreme power of
V.
Woodworth that State.
Supposing, however, this to be a contract sueh as
was meant to be included in the constitutional prohibition, is its obligation impaired by these acts of
the legislature of New-Hampshire ?
The title of the acts of the 27th of June, and the
18th of December, 1.816, shows that the legislative
will and intention was to amend the charter, and
enlarge and improve the corporation. If by a technical fiction the grant of the charter can be consideted as a contract between the king (or the State)
and the corporators, the obligation of that contract
is-not impaired; but is rather enforced, by these acts,
which continue the same corporation,-for the same
objects, under a new name, It is well settled, that
a mere change 6f the name of a corporation will not
affect its identity. An addition to the number of the
colleges, the creation of new fellowships, or an in.crease of the number of the trustees, do not impair
the franchises of the corporate body. Nor is the
franchise of any individual corporator impaired. In
the words of Mr. Justice, Ashdrst, in the case of the
King v. Passmore, "the members of the old body
have no injury or injustice to complain of, for they
are all included in the new charter of incorporation;
and if any of them do not become members of the
new incorporation, but refuse to accept,. it is their
Svernment

-a 3 T. R. 244.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

605

own fault." What rights which are secured by this
1819.
f
alleged contract are invaded by the acts of the legis- "lature ? Is it the right of property, or of privileges? college
It is not the former, because the corporate body is WoodwVa.
not deprived of the least portion of itsproperty. If
it be the personal privileges of the corporators that
are attacked, these must be either a common and
universal privilege, such as the right of suffrage,
for interrupting the exercise of which an action
would lie; or they must be monopolies and exclusive
privileges, which are always subject to be regulated
and modified by the supreme power of the State.
Where a priVate proprietary interest is coupled with
the exercise of political"power or a_ public trust, the
charters of corporations have frequently been amended by legislative autbority.a In charters creating artificial persons for purposes exclusively private, and
not interfering with the common rights of the citizens, it may be admitted that the legislature cannot
interfere to amend without the consent of thegrantees.
The grant of such a charter might perhaps be considered as analogous to a contract between the State
and private individuals, affecting their private rights,
and might thus be regarded as within the spirit of
the constitutional prohibition. But this charter is
merely a mode of exercising one of the great powers
of civil government. Its amendment, or even repeal,
can no more be considered as the breach of a contract, than the amendment or repeal of any other law.
Such repeal or amendment is an ordinary act of public
a, Gray v. The Portland Bank, 3 Mas. R. 364.
monwealth v. Bird. 12 ,ass. R. 443.

The Com-

606

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

legislation, and not an act impairing the obligation
Sof a contract between the government and private
Dartmouth
College citizens, under which personal immunities or propriV.
Woodiward. etary interests are vested in them.
1819.

The Attorney- General, on the same side, stated,
that the only question properly before the Court was,
whether the several acts of the legislature of NewHampshire, mentioned in the special verdict, are repugnant to that clause of the constitution of the
United States, which provides, that no State shall
" pass any bill of attainder, ex post facto law, or law
impairing the obligation of contracts."
Beside its intrinsic difficulty, the extreme delicacy
of this question is evinced by the sentiments expressed
by the Court, whenever it has been called to act on
such a question.a In the case of Fletcher v. Peck,
the Court says, "The question whether a law be void
for its repugnancy to the constitution, is, at all times,
a question of much delicacy, which ought seldom, if
ever, to be decided in the affirmative, in'a doubtful
case. The Court, when impelled by duty to render
such a judgment, would be unworthy of -its station
could it be unmindful of the solemn obligation which
that station imposes. But it is not on slight implication and vague conjecture that the legislature is to
be pronounced to have transcended its powers, and its
acts are to be considered as void. The opposition
between the constitution and the law should be such
a Calder et ux. v. Bull et ux. 3 Dall. 392, 394, 395. Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87. New-Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Cranch,
164. Terret v. Taylor, 9 Granchl, 43.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

607

1819.
that the judge feels a clear and strong conviction of
'
'
their incompatibility with each other. a In Calder Dartmouth
ct ux. v. Bull et ux.b Mr. Justice Chace expressed Collego
himself with his usual emphatic energy, and said, Wooawar,
"I will not decide any law to be void, but in a very
clear cage." Is it, then, a very clear case that these
acts of New-Hampshire are repugnant to the constitution of the United States ?
1. Are they bills of attainder ? The elementary
writers inform us, that an attainder is " the stain or
corruption of the blood of a criminal capitally condemned."' True it is, that the Chief Justice says,
in Fletcher v. Peck,' that a bill of attainder may
affect tile life of an individual, or may confiscate his
estate, or both. But the cause did not turn upon
this point, and the Chief Justice was not called upon
to weigh with critical accuracy his expressions in
this part of the case. In England, most certainly,
the first idea presented is !hat of corruption of blood,
and Consequent forfeiture of the entire property of'
the criminal, as the regular and inevitable consequences of a capital conviction at common law.
Statutes sometimes pardon the attainder, and merely
forfeit the estate. But this forfeiture is always comIn.the present case, however,
plete and entire.
it cannot be pretended that any part of the estate of
the trustees is forfeited, and, if a part, certainly not
the whole.
2. Are these acts "laws impairing the obligation.
a 6 Crunch, 128.
'c 4 Bl. Com. 380.

b 3 Dull. 395.
d 6 Cranch, 138.

8
i189.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

]Dartmouth

of contracts?" The mischiefs actually existing at
the time the constitution was established, and which

College

were intended to be remedied -by this prohibitory

Woodward.

clause, will show the nature of the contracts contemplated by its authors. It was the inviolability
of private contracts, and private rights acquired
under them, which was intended to be protected ;U
and not contracts which are in their nature
matters of civil police, nor grants by a State of
power, and even property, to individuals, in trust to
be administered for purposes merely public. " The
prohibitions not to make any thing but gold and silver coin a tender in payment of debts, and not to pass
any law impairing the obligation of contracts," says
Mr. Justice Chace, "were inserted to secure private
rights. ' The cases determined in this Court, illus"
tratethe sameconstruction of this clause of the constitution. Fletcher v. Peck was a case where a
State legislature attempted to revoke its grant, so as
to devesta beneficial estate in lands; a vested estate
an actual conveyance to individuals as their private
property." 'In the case of New-Jersey v. Wilson,
there was an express contract contained in' a publio
treaty of cession with the Indians, by which the privilege of perpetual exemption from taxation was indelibly impressed upon the lands, and could- not be
taken away without a violation of the public faith
a The Federalist,No. 44.

1 Tucker's Bl. CoN. part I. Ap-

pendix, 312.

b Calder et ux. v. Bull et ux. 3 Dall. 39o0,
c 6 Cranch, 87o

OF THE UNITED STATES.

solemnly pledged.

Terretv. Taylor was also a case

609
im.

of an attempt to devest an interest in lands actually Drmouth

to a contract.. In all College
vested under an act amounting
1
0
V.
those instances, the property was held by the gran- Woowar&
tees, and those to whom they had conveyed, beneficially, and under the sanction of contracts,. in the or-*
dinary and popular signification of that term. But
this is an attempt to extend its obvious and natural
meaning, and to apply it by a species of legal fiction
to a class of cases which have always been supposed
to be within the control of the -sovereign power.
Charters to public corporations for.purposes of public
policy are necessarily subject to the legislative discretion, which may revoke or modify them as the
continually fluctuating exigencies of the society may
require. Incorporations for the purposes of education and other literary objects, in one age, or under'
one form of government, may become unfit for their
.office in another age, or under another government.
This charter is said to be a contract between-Doctor Wheelock and the king ; a contract founded on a
donation of private property by Doctor Wheelock.
It is hence inferred, that it is a private eleemosynary
corporation ; and the right of visitation is said to be
in the founder and his heirs; and that the State can
have no right to interfere, because it is neither the
founder of this charity, nor contributor to it.
But if the basis of this argument is removed, what
becomes of the superstructure? The fact that Doctor Wheelock was a contributor, -is not found by the
b 9 Cranch, 43.

a 7 Cranch, 161.
Vol. IV.

77

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

610
1819.

special verdict ; and not having been such in truth,

it cannot be added under the agreement to amend
Dartmouth
Colege the special verdict. The jury find the charter, and
'

V.

Woodward.

that does not recite that the college

was a private
foundation by Doctor Wheelock. On the contrary,
the real state of the case is, that he was the projector ; that he had a school on his own plantation, for
the edlucation of Indians; and through the assistance
of others had been employed for several years in
cloathing, maintaining, and educating them. He
solicited contributions, and appointed others to solicit. At the foundation of the college, the institution
was removed from his estate. The honours paid to
him by the charter were the reward of past services,
and of the boldness, as well as piety, of the project.
The State has been a contributor of funds, and this
fact is found. It is, therefore, not a private charity,
but a public institution ; subject to be modified, altered, and regulated, by the supreme power of the
State.
This charter is not a contract within the true intent of the constitution. The acts of New-Hampshire, varying in some degree the forms of the charter, do not impair the obligation of a contract.
In a case which is really a case of contract, there
is no difficulty in ascertaining who are the contracting parties. But here they cannot be fixed. Doctor Wheelock can only be said to be a party, on the
ground of his contributing funds, and thus being the
founder and visitor. That ground being removed,
he ceases to be a party to the contract. Are the other
contributors alluded to in the charter, and unume-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

rated by Belknap in his history of New-Hampshire,
are not, before
are they contracting parties ? They
.....
the Court; and even if they were, with whom did
they contract? With the King of Great Britain?
He,too, is not before the Court; and has declared, by
his Chancellor, in the case of the Attorney General
v. The City of London,a that he has no longer any
connexion with these corporations in America. Has
the State of New-Hampshire taken his place ? Neither is that State before the Court, nor can it be as a
party, originally defendant. But suppose this to be
a contract between the trustees, and the people of
New-Hampshire. A contract is always for the benefit and advantage of some person. This contract
cannot be for the benefit of the trustees. It is for the
use of the people. The cestui que use is always the
contracting party; the trustee has nothing to do with
stipulating the terms. The people then grant powers
for their own use. It is a contract with themselves!
But if the trustees are parties on one side, what
do they give, and what do they receive ? They give
their time and labour. Every society has a right'to
the services of its members in places of public trust
and duty. A town appoints, under the authority of
the State, an overseer of the poor, or of the highways. He gives, reluctantly, his labour and services;
he receives nothing in return but the privilege of
giving his labour and services. Such appointments
to offices of public trust have never been considered
a The Attorney Generhi v. The City of London, 3 Bro. Ch.
CGs. 171.

1 Ves. jun. 243.

611,
1819.
Da"ot
Datmouth
College Woodwart].

612

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1819.

as contracts which the sovereign authority was not
Dcompetent
to rescind or modify. There can be no
Dartmouth
which the party does not receive some
in
contract
College
V.
Woward. personal, private, individual benefit. To make this
charter a contract, and'a private contract, there must
be a private beneficial interest vested in the party
who pays the consideration. What is the private beneficial interest vested in the party in the present
case ? The right of appointing the president and professors of the college, and of establishing ordinances
for its government, &c. But to make .these rights
an interest which will constitute the end and object
of a contract, the exercise of these rights must be for
the private individual advantage of the trustees.
Here, however, so far from that being the fact, it is
solely for the advantage of the public ; for the interests of piety and learning. It was upon these
principles that Lord Kenyon determined, in the case
of Weller v. Foundling Hospital,a that the governor
and members of the corporation were competent witnesses, because they were trustees of a public charity,
and had no private personal interest. It is not
meant
incorporeal
to deny that mere rightm-a franchise-an
hereditament) may be the subject of a contract ; but
it must always be' a direct, individual, beneficial interest to the party who takes that right. The rights
'of municipal corporators are of this nature. The,
right of suffrage there belongs beneficially to the
individual elector, and is to be exercised for his own
exclusive advantage. It is in- relation to these town
a Peake's X. P. Cas. 154.

OF THE UNITED STATES--

'613

1819.
corporations that Lord Kenyon speaks, Vhenh6 says,
them.a
upon
charter
a
new
force
cannot
the
king
that
Dartmouth
This principle is established for the benefit of all the College
V.
corporators. It is accompanied by another principle, woodward,
without which it would never have been adopted:
the power of proposing amendments at the desire of
those for whose benefit the charter was granted.
These two principles work together for the good of
the whole. By the one, these municipal corporations
are saved from the tyranny of the crown ; and by the
other, they are preserved from the infinite perpetuity
of inveterate errors. But in the present case there
is no similar qualification of the immutability of the
charter, which is contended for in the argument on
ihe other side. But in truth, neither the original
principle, nor its qualification, apply to this case; for
there is here no such beneficial interest and individual
property as are enjoyed by town corporators.
3. But even admitting it to be a case of contract,
its obligation is not impaired by these legislative acts.
What vested right has been devested ? None! The
former trustees are continued. It is true, that new
trustees are added, but this affords no reasonable
ground of complaint. The privileges of the House
of Lords in England are not impaired by the introduction of new members. The old corporation is
not abolished, for the foundation as now regulated
is substantially the same. It is identical in all its essential constituent parts, and all its former rights are

ta Rex v. Passmore, 3 T. R. 244.

614,
isig.
r
Dartmouth
College
Woodward.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

preserved and confirmed.' The change of name does
not change its original rights and franchises.b By
the revolution which separated this country from the
British empire, all the powers of the British government devolved on the States. The legislature of
New-Hampshire then became cloathed w-ith all the
powers, both of the king and parliament, over these
public institutions. On whom, then, did the title to
the property of this college fall? If before the revolution it was beneficially vested in any private individuals, or corporate body, I do not contend that
the revolution devested it, and gave it to the State.
But it was not before vested berteficially in the trustees. The use unquestionably belnged to the people of New-Hampshire, who were the cestuy que
trusts. The legal estate was indeed vested iai the
trustees before the revolution by virtue of the royal
charter of 1769. But that charter was destroyed by
the revolutionc and the legal estate, of course, fell
upon those who held the equitable estate-upon the
people. If those who were trustees, carried on the
duties of the trust after the revolution, it must have
been subject to the power of the people. If it be
said, that the State gave its implied assent to the
terms of the old charter, then it must be subject to all
the terms on which it was granted; and among these,
to the oath of allegiance to the king. But if to avoid
,a See the Mayor of Colchester v. Seaber, 3 Burr. 1866.
b 1 Sand. 344. n. 1.

Luttrel's Case, 4 Co. Rep. 87.

c Attorney General v. City of London, 3 Bro. Ch. Cas. 171.

S. C. 1 Ves.jun. 143.'

OF THE UNITED STATES.

this concession, it be said, that the charter must have
been so far modified as to adapt it to the character of

1819.
Dartmouth

the new government, and to the change in our civil college
institutions; that is precisely what we contend for. wooawara.
These civil institutions must be modified, and adapted to the mutations of society and manners. They
belong to the people, are established for their benefit,
and ought to be subject to their authority.
Mr. Hopkinson, in reply, insisted, that the whole
argument on the other side proceeded on an assurnption which was not warranted, and could not be maintained. The corporation created by this charter is
called a public corporation. Its members are said
to be public officers, and agents of government. They
were officers of the king, it is said, before the revolution, and they are officers of the State since. But
upon what authority is all this taken ? What is the
acknowledged principle which decides thus of this
corporation ? Where are the cases in which such a
doctrine has ever prevailed ? No case, no book of
authority, has been, or can be, cited to this purpose.
Every writer on the law of corporations, all the cases
in law and equity, instruct us that colleges are regarded in law as private eleemosynary corporations,
especially -colleges founded, as this was, by a private
founder. If this settled principle be not overthrown,
there is no foundation for the defendlant's argument.
We contend that this charter is a contract between the
government and the members of the corporation created by it. It is a contract, because it is a grant of
valuable rights and privileges; and every grant im-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1819.

-

Dartmouth

plies a contract not to resume the thing granted.

Public offices are not created by contract or by char-

ter. They are provided for by general laws. Judges
Woodward. and magistrates 'do not hold their offices under charCollege
V.

ters. These offices are created by public laws,
for public political purposes, and filled by appointments made in the exercise of political power.
There is nothing like this in the origin of the
powers of the plaintiffs. Nor is there in their duties,
any more than in their origin, any thing which likens
them to public political agents. Their duties are
such as they themselves have chosen to assume, in
relation to a fund created by private benefaction, for
charitable uses. These duties relate to the instruction of youth: but instructors of youth are not pub.
lic officers. The argument on the other side, if it
proves any thing, will prove that professors, masters,
preceptors, and tutors, are all political persons and
public officers ; and that all education is necessarily
and exclusively the business of the State. The confutation of' such an argument lies in stating it. The
trustees of this college perform no duties, and have
no responsibility in, any way connected with the civil
government of the State. They derive no compensation for their services from .the public treasury.
They are the gratuitous administrators of a private
bounty ; the trustees of a literary establishment,
standing, in contemplation of law, on the same
foundation as hospitals, and other charities. It is
true, that a college, in a popular sense, is a public institution, because its uses are public, and its benefits
may be enjoyed by all who choose to enjoy them,.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

But in a legal and technical sense, they are not public institutions, but private charities. Corporations
may, therefore, be very well said to be for public use,
of which the property and privileges are yet private.
Indeed, there may be supposed to be an ultimate reference to the public good, in granting all charters of
incorporation; but this does not change the property
from private to public. If the property of this corporation be public property, that is, property belonging to the State, when did it become so? It was
once private property ; when was it surrendered to
the public ? The object in obtaining the charter, was
not surely to transfer the property to the public, but
to secure it forever in the hands of those with whom
the original owners saw fit to entrust it. Whence,
then, that right of ownership and control over this
property, which the legislature of New-Hampshire
has undertaken to exercise? The distinction between
public, political, or civil corporations, and corporations
for the distribution of private charity, is fully explained, and broadly marked, in the cases which have
been cited, and to which no answer has been given.
The hospital of Pennsylvania is quite as much a
public corporation, as this college. It has great
funds, most wisely and beneficently administered. Is
it to be supposed, that the legislaturemight rightfully
lay its hands on this institution, violate its charter, and
direct its funds to any purpose which its pleasure
might prescribe? The property of this college was
private property before the charter; and the charter
has wrought no change in the nature or title of this
property. The school had existed as a charity school,
VOL. IV'.

78

617
1819.
Dartmouth
College

V.

Woodward.

618
1819.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

for years before the charter was granted. During
time it was manifestly a private charity. The

Sthi.s
Dartmouth
College

case cited from Atkyns, shows, that a charter does not

V.
make a charity more public, but only more permaWoodward.

nent. Before he accepted the eharter, the founder
of this college possessed an absolute right to the property with which it was endowed, and also the right
flowing from that, of administering and applying it
to the purposes of the charity by him established.
By taking the charter, he assented that the right to
the property, and the power of administering it, should
go to the corporation of which he and others were
members. The beneficialopurpose to which the property was to be used, was the consideration on the
part of the government for granting the charter. The
perpetuity which it was calculated to give to the charity, was the founder's inducement to solicit it. By
this charter, the public faith is solemnly pledged, that
the arrangement thus made shall be perpetual. In
consideration that the founder would devote his property to the purposes beneficial to the public, the government has solemnly covenanted with him to secure the administration of that property in the hands
of trustees appointed in the charter. And yet the
argument now is, that because he so devoted hisproperty to uses beneficial to the public, the government
ma y,for that reason, assume the control of it, and take
it out of those hands to which it was confided by the
charter. In other words, because the founder has
strictly performed the contract on his part, the government, on its part, is at liberty to violate it. This
argument is equally unsound in morality and in law.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

vuig.
The founder proposed to appropriate his property, and
a
to render his services, upon condition of receiving 1 Dal'l im~th
charter which should secure to him and his associates Coditge
V.
certain privileges and immunities. He undertook the Woodward.
discharge of certain duties, in consideration of obtaining certain rights. There are rights and duties on both
sides. On the part of the founder, there is tle duty
of appropriating the property, and of rendering the
services imposed on him by the charter, and the right
of having secured to him and his associates the administration of the charity, according to the terms
of the charter, forever. On the part of the government, there is the duty of maintaining and protecting
all the rights and privileges conferred by the charter, and the right of insisting on the compli;nce of
the trustees with the obligations undertaken by them,
and of enforcing that compliance by all due and regular means. There is a plain, manifest, reasonable
stipulation, mixed up of rights and duties, which caniiot be separated but by the hand of injustice and
violence. Yet the attempt now is to break the mutuality of this stipulation ; to hold the founder's property, and yet take away that which was given him
as the consideration upon which he parted with his
property. The charter was a grant of valuable
powers and privileges. The State now claims the
right of revoking this grant, without restoring the
consideration which it received for making the grant.
Such a pretence may suit despotic power. It may
succeed where the authority of the legislature is
limited by no rule, and bounded only by its will. It
may prevail in those systems in which injustice is

620

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

not always unlawful, and where neither the fundaSmental constitution of the government sets any limits
Dartmouth
to power, nor any just sentiment or moral feeling
College
V.
Woodward. affords a practical restraint against a power which in
its theory is unlimited. But it cannot prevail in the
United States, where power is restrained by constitutional barriers, and where no legislature is, even in
theory, invested with all sovereign powers. Suppose
Dr. Wheelock had chosen to establish and perpetuate
this charity by his last will, or by a deed, in which he
had given the property, appointed the trustees, provided for their succession, and prescribed their duties.
Could the legislature of New-Hampshire have broken
in upon this gift, changed its parties, assumed the appointment of the trustees, abolished its stipulations and
regulations, or imposed others? This will hardly be
pretended, even in this bold and hardy argument-and
why not ? Because the gift, with all its restrictions and
provisions, would be under the general and implied
protection of the law. How is it in our case ? Why,
in addition to the general and implied protection afforded to all rights and all property, it has an express,
specific, covenanted assurance of protection and inviolability, given on good and sufficient considerations,
in the usual manner of contracts between individuals.
There can be no doubt that, in contemplation of law,
a charter, such as this, is a contract. It takes effect
only with the assent of those to whom it is granted.
Laws enjoin duties, without or against the will of
those who are to perform them. But the duties of
the trustees, under this charter, are binding upon them
1819.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1819.
only because they have accepted the charter, and asDartraout
terms.
its
to
sented
But taking this to be a contract, the argument of College
the defendant is, that it is not such a contract as the Woodward.
constitution of the United States protects. But why
not ? The constitution speaks of contracts, and ought
to include all contracts for property or valuable privileges. There is no distinction or discrimination made
by the constitution itself, which will exclude this case
from its protection. The decisions which have already been made in this Court are a complete answer
to the defendant's argument.
The Attorney General has insisted, that Dr.
Wheelock was not the founder of this college; that
other donors have better title to that character ;and
that, therefore, the plaintiff's argument, so far as it
rests on the supposed fact of Dr. Wheelock's being the
founderfails. The first answer to this is, that the charter itself declares Dr. Wheelock to be the founder, in
express terms. It also recites facts,which would show
him to be the founder, and on which the law would.
invest him with that character, if the charter itself
had not declared him so. But if all this were otherwise, it would not help the defendant's argument.
The foundation was still private ; and whether Dr.
Wheelock, or Lord Dartmouth, or any other person,
possessed the greatest share of merit in establishing
the college, the result is the same, so far as it bears
on the present question. Whoever was founder, the
visitatorial power was assigned to the trustees, by the
charter; and it, therefore, is of no importance whother the founder was one individual or another. It

662

2

CASES IN'THE SUPREME COURT

is narrowing the ground of our argument to suppose,
we rest it on the particular fact of Dr. WheeDartmouth
college lock's being founder; although the fact is fully estaV.
Orwuetita
Wood,,ard. blished by the charter itself. Our agument is, that
this is a private corporation ; that the founder of the
charity, before the charter, had a right of visiting and
governing it,. a right growing out of the property of
the endowment ; that by the charter, this visitatorial
power is vested in the trustees, as assignees of the
founder ; and that it is a privilege, right, and immunity, originally springing from property, and which
the law regards and protects, as much as it regards
and protects property and privileges of any other description. By the charter, all proper powers of government are given to the trustees, and this makes
them visitors; and from the time of the acceptance of
the charter, no visitatorial power remained in the
founder or his heirs. This is the clear doctrine of
the case of Green v. Rutherforth, which has been
cited, and which is supported by all the other cases.
Indeed we need not stop here-in the argument. We
might go farther, and contend, that if there were no
private founder, the trustees would possess the visitatorial power. Where there are charters, vesting the
usual and proper powers of government in the trustees, they thereby become the visitors, and the founder retains no visitatorial power, although that founder
be the king.a Even then, if this college had originated with the government, and had been founded
by it; still, if the government had given a charter to
1819.

Sthat

a 2 Ves. 328.

1 Fes. 78.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

623

trustees, and conferred on them the powers of visita181,9.
tion, and control, which this charter contains, it would Dartmouth
by no means follow, that the government might re- Collego
V.
yoke the grant, merely because it had itself established Woodward.
the institution.

Such would not be the legal conse-

quence. If the grant be of privileges and immunities, which are to be esteemed objects of value, it cannot be revoked.

But this case is much stronger than

that. Nothing is plainer, than that Dr. Wheelock,
from the recitals of this charter, was the founder of
this institution. It is true, that others contributed
bnt it is to be remembered, that they contributed to
Dr. Wheelock, and to the funds while under his pri-

vate administration and control, and before the idea
of a charter had been suggested. These contributions were obtained on his solicitation, and confided

to his trust.
If we have satisfied the Court that this charter must
be regarded as a contract, and such a contract as is
protected by the constitution of the United States, it
will hardly be seriously denied, that the acts of the
legislature of New-Hampshire impair this contract.

They impair the rights of the corporation as an aggregate body, and the rights and privileges of individual members. New duties are imposed on the corporation ; the funds are directed to new purposes; a
controlling power ovr all the proceedings of the

trustees, is vested in a board of overseers unknown
to the charter. Nine new trustees are added to the
original number, in direct hostility with the provision
of the charter. There are radical and essential al-

624

6CASES iN THE SUPREME COURT

terations, which go to alter the whole organization
o
and frame of the corporation.
Dartmouth
189.

If we are right in the, view which we have taken
Woodward. of this case, the result is, that -before, and at the
time of, the granting of this charter, Dr. Wheelock
had a legal interest in the funds with which the institution was founded; that he made a contract with
the then existing government of the State, in relation
to that interest, by which he devoted, to uses beneficial to'the public, the funds which he had collected,
in 'Consideration of the stipulations and covenants,
on the part of the government, contained in the charter; and that these stipulations are violated, and the
contract impaired, by the acts of the legislature of
New-Hampshire.
College
V.

Feb. 2,
1819.

The opinion of the Court was delivered by Mr.
Chief Justice MARSHALL.
This is an action of trover, brought by the Trustees of Dartmouth College against William H. Woodward, in the State Court of New Hampshire, for the
book of records, corporate seal, and other corporate
property, to which the plaintiffs allege themselves to
be entitled.
A special verdict, after setting out the rights of the
parties, finds for the defendant, if certain acts of the
legislature of New-Hampshire, passed on the 27th of
June, and on the 18th of December, 1816, be valid,
and binding on the trustees without their assent, and
not repugnant- to the constitution of the United
States ; otherwise, it finds for the plaintiffs.

OF THE UNITED STATES,

625

1819.
The Superior Court of Judicature of New-hampshire rendered a judgment upon this verdict for the Dartmouth
defendant, which judgment has been brought before College
this Court by writ of error. , The single question Woodward.
now to be considered is, do the acts to which the
verdict refers violate the constitution of the United
States ?
This Court can be insensible neither to the magnitude nor delicacy of this question. The validity of
a legislative act is to be examined; and the opinion
of the highest law tribunal of a State is to be revised : an opinion which carries with itintrinsic evidence of the diligence, of the ability, and the inte-"
grity, with which'it was formed. On more than one
occasion, this Court has expressed the cautious circumspection with Which it approaches the consideration of such questions ; and has declared, that, in no
doubtful case, would it pronounce a legislative act
to be contrary to the constitution. But the American
people have said, in the constitution of. the United
States, that." no State shall pass any bill of attainder,
ex pos t facto law, or law impairing the obligation of
contracts." In the same instrument they have also
said," that the judicial power shall extend to all
cases in law and equity arising under the constitution." On the judges, of this Court, then, is imposed the high and solemn duty of, protecting, from'
even iegislative violation, those contracts which the
constitution of our country has placed beyond legislative control; and, however irksome the task may
be, this is a duty from which we dare notshrink.
VOL. IV. •

79

626

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

The title of the plaintiffs originates in a charter
Dartmouth
Ddated
the 13th day of December, in the year 1769,
incorporating twelve persons therein mentioned, by
College
Woodward. the name of " The Trustees of Dartmouth College,"
granting to them and their successors the usual corporate privileges and powers, and authorizing the
trustees, who are to govern the college, to fill up
all vacancies which may be created in their own
body.
The defendant claims under three acts of the legislature of New-Hampshire, the most material of
which was passed on, the 27th of June, 1816, and is
entitled, "a, act to amend the charter, and enlarge
and improve the corporation of Dartmouth College."
Among other alterations in the charter, this act increases the. number of trustees to twenty-one, gives
the appointment of the additional members to the
executive of the State, and creates a board of overseers, with power to, inspect and control the most
important acts of. the trustees. This board consists
of twenty-five persons. The president of the senate,
the speaker, of the house of representatives, of NewHampshire, and the gov~rnor and lieutenant governor of Vermont, for the time being, aretobe memr
bers ex officio. The board is to be completed by the
governor and council of New-Hampshire,, who arealso empowered to. fill all: vacancies which may oc-cur. The acts of; the 18th and 26th of December
are supplemental to that of the -27th of June,, and..
are principally intended to carry that act into effect
The majority, of the trustees of. the college ha~v.
mfused to accept this amended charter, and have
1819.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

627

1819.
brought this suit for the corporate property, Which
a person holding by virtue of the
is in possession of
~Dartmouth
College
acts which have been stated.
cir- Woov.
the
that
prove,
to
Wodward.
argument
no
require
can
It
Charter
fThe
ap.cumstances of this case constitute a contract. An
Dartmouth
plication is made to the crown for a charter to incor- college is a
porate a religious and literary institution. In the application, it is stated that large contributions have
been made for the object, which will be conferred
on the corporation, as soon as it shall be created.
The charter is granted, and on its faith the property
is conveyed. 'Surely in this transaction every ingredient of a complete and legitimate contract is to be
found.
The points for consideration are,
1. Is this contract protected by the constitution of
the United States?
2. Is it impaired by the acts under which the defendant holds ?
1. On the first point it has been argued, that the wht species
word "contract,"
in
word11 in its broadest
ontrctthe sense, would corn- ae included
constitu.
prohibi.
tionalof State
between the govern- tion
prehend the political relations
'
impgairog
ment and its citizens, would extend
4~h to offices held laws
obconatio.

within a State for State purposes, and to many of Contracts.

of those laws concerning civil institutions, which
must change with circumstances, and be modified by
ordinary legislation; which deeply concern the public, and which, to preserve good government, the
public judgment must control. That even marriage
is a contract, and its obligations are affected by the
laws respecting divorces. That the clause in- the
constitution, if construed in its greatest latitude,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1s19.

"

Dartmouth
College

would prohibit these laws. Taken in its broad unlimited sense, the clause would be an unprofitable

and vexatious interference with the internal concerns
Woodward. of a State, would unnecessarily and unwisely em-

barrass its legislation, and render immutable those
civil institutions, which are established for purposes
of internal government, and which, to subserve those
purposes, ought to vary with varying circumstances.

That as the framers of the constitution could never
have intended to insert in that instrument a provision
so unnecessary, so mischievous, and so repugnant to
its general spirit, the term "contract" must be understood in a more limited sense. That it must be
-understood as intended to guard against a power of
at least doubtful utility, the abuse of which had been
extensively felt; and to restrain the legislature in future from violating the right to property. That anterior to the formation of the constitution, a course
of legislation had prevailed in many, if not in all, of
the States, which weakened the confidence of man
in man, and embarrassed all transactions between individuals, by dispensing with a faithful performance of
engagements. To correct this mischief, by restraining
the power which prodiuced it, the State legislatures
were forbidden "to pass any law impairing the
obligation of contracts," that is, of contracts respecting property, under which some individual
could claim a right to something beneficial to himself; and that since the clause in the constitution
must in construction receive some limitation, it may
be confined, and ought to be confined, to cases of this

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1819.
description; to cases within the mischief it was inDartmouth
tended to remedy.
The general correctness of these observations can- College
not be controverted. That the framers 6.f the con- Woodward.
stitution did not intend to retrain the States in the
regulation of their civil institutions, adopted 'for internal goverment, and that the instrument they have
given us, is not to be so construed, may be admitted.
The provision of the constitution never has been understood to embrace other contracts, than those
which respect property, or some object, of value, and
confer rights which may be asserted in a oourt of
justice. It never has been understood to restrict the
general right of the legislature to legislate on the
subject of divorces. Those acts enable some tribunal, not to impair a marriage contract, but to liberate
one of the parties because it has been broken by the
other. When any State legislature shall pass an act
annulling all marriage contracts, or allowing either
party to annul it without the consent of the other,
it will be time enough to inquire, whether such an
act be constitutional.
The parties" in this case differ less on general principles, less on the true construction of the constitution in the abstract, than on the application of those,
principles to this case, and on the true construction
of the charter of 1769. This is the point on which
the cause essentially depends. If the act of incorporation6be a grant of political power, if it create a
civil institution to be employed in the administrationef the government, or if the funds of the college be

630

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1819.

public property, or if the State of New-Hampshire,

Dartmouth
D
o

as a government, be alone interested in its transic-

College

tions, the subject is one in which the legislature of
the State may act according to its own judgment, unrestrained by any limitation of its power imposed by
the constitution of the United States.
But if this be a private eleemosynary institution,
endowed with a capacity to take property for objects
unconnected with government, whose funds are bestowed by individuals on the faith of the charter ; if
the donors have stipulated for the future disposition
and management of those funds in the manner prescribed by themselves; there may be more difficulty
in the case, although neither the persons who have
made these stipulations, nor those for whose benefit
they were made, should be parties to the cause.
Those who are no longer interested in the property,
may yet retain such an interest in the preservation of
their own arrangements, as to have a right to insist,
that those arrangements shall be held sacred. Or,
if they have themselves disappeared, it. becomes a
subject of serious and anxious inquiry, whether
those whom they have legally empowered to represent them forever, may not assert all the rights which
they possessed, while in being; whether, if they be,
without personal representatives who may feel injured by a violation of the compact, the trustees be
not socompletely their representatives in theeye of the
law, as to stand in their place, not only as respects
the government of the college, but also as respects
the maintenance of the college charter.
It becomes then the duty of the Court most

'Noodward.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1819.
seriously to examine this charter, and to ascertain
its true character.
Dartmouth
From the instrument itself, it appears, that about colleg8
the year 1764, the Rev. Eleazer Wheelock esta- Woodwar.

blished at his own expense, and on his own estate, a
bCollege

charity school for the instruction of Indians in the

Darunouth
is a
priate eleemosynary c",-

christian religion. The success of this institution ran.
inspired him with the design of soliciting contributions in England for carrying on, and extending, his
undertaking. In this pious work he employed the
Rev. Nathaniel Whitaker, who, by virtue of a power
of attorney from Dr. Wheelock, appointed- the Earl
of Dartmouth and others, trustees of the money,
which had been, and should be, contributed-; which
appointment Dr. Wheelock confirmed: by a deed of
trust authorizing the trustees to fix on a site for the.
college. They determined to establish the school on,
Connecticut river, in the western part of NewHampshire ; that situation being supposed favourable for carrying on the original design; among the
Indians, and also for promoting learning among the
English ; and. the proprietors in the neighbourhood
having made large offers. of land, on condition, that
the college, should there be placed. Dr. Wheelock
then applied to the crown, for an: act of incorporation;
and represented the expediency of appointing those
whom he had, by his last will, named as trustees in
America, to be members of the proposed corporation.
" In consideration of the premises,"c"for the education and instruction of the youth of the Indian
tribes," &c. " and also of English youth, and: any
others," the charter was granted, and the trustees of
Dartmouth College were by that name created a body

632

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1819.

corporate, with power, for the use of the said college,

o
Dartmouth

to acquire real and personal property, and.to pay the

College
IV.

president, tutors, and other officers of the college,

Woodward. such salaries as they shall allow.

The charter proceeds to appoint Eleazer Wheelock,
"the founder of said college,?' president thereof,
with power by' his last will to appoint a successor,
who is to continue in office until' disapproved by the
trustees. In case of vacancy, the trustees may ap'point a president,, and in case of the ceasing of a
president, the senior professor or tutor, being one of
the trustees, shall exercise the office, until an appointmeit shall be made. The trustees have power to
appoint and displace professors, tutors, and other officers, and to supply any vacancies which may be
created-in their own body, by death, resignation, removal, or disability ; and also to make orders, ordinances, and laws, for the government of the college,
the same not being repugnant to the laws of Great
'Britain, or of New-Hampshire, and not excluding any
person on account of his speculative sentiments in
religion, or his being of a religious profession differ-ent from that of the trustees.
This charter was accepted, and the property both
real and personal, which had been contributed for the
benefit of the college, was conveyed to, and vested in,
the corporate body.
From this brief review of the most essential parts
of the charter, it is apparent, that the funds of the
college consisted entirely of private donations. It is,
perhaps, not very important, who were the'donors.
The probability is, that 'the Earl of Dartmouth, and
the other trustees in England, were, in fact, the largest

OF THE UNITED STATES.

6M

contributors. Yet the legal conclusion, from the facts 1819.
recited in the charter, would probably be, that Dr. Dartmouth
Wheelock was the founder of the college.
College
V..
The origin of the institution was, undoubtedly, the Woodwara.
Indian charity school, established by Dr. Wheelock,
at his own expense. It was at his instance, and to
enlarge this school, that contributions were solicited
in England. The person soliciting these contributions was his agent; and the trustees, who received
the money, were appointed by, and act under, his
authority. It is not too much to say, that the funds
were obtained by him, in trust, to be applied by him
to,the purposes of his enlarged school. The charter
of incorporation was granted at his instance. The
persons named by him in,his last will, as the trustees
of his charity school, compose a part of the corporation, and he is declared to be the founder of the college, and its president for life. Were the inquiry
material, we should feel some hesitation in saying,
that Dr. Wheelock was not, in law, to be considered
as the founder, of this institution, and as possessing
all the rights appertaining to that character. But
be this as it may, Dartmouth 'College is really endowed by private individuals, who have bestowed
their funds for the propagation of the christian religion among the Indians, and for the promotion of
piety and learning geperally. From these funds the
salaries of the tutors are drawn; and these salaries
lessen the expense of education to the students. It
a. I
VOL. IV.

l Com. 481.
s0

6 CASES

634

is then an eleemosynary,a and, as far as respects its

1819.

Da

IN THE SUPREME COURT

t

College
Woodward.

,funds, a private corporation.

Do its objects stamp on it a different character-?
Are the trustees and professors public officers, invested with any portion of political power, partaking in
any degree in the administration of civil government,
and performing duties which flow from the sovereign
authority ?
That education is an object of national concern,
and a proper subject of legislation, all admit. 'That
there may be an institution founded by government,
and placed entirely under its immediate control, the
officers of which would be public officers, amenable
exclusively to government, none will deny. But is
Dartmouth College such an institution? Is education
altogether in the hands of government? . Does every
teacher of youth become a public officer, and do donations for the purpose of education necessarily become public property, so far that the will of the
legislature, not the will of the donor, becomes the law
of the donation ? These qtiestions are of serious
'moment to society, and deserve to be well considered.
Doctor Wheelock, as the keeper of his charity
school, instructing the Indians in the art of reading,
and in our holy religion; sustaining them at his own
expense, and on the voluntary contributions of the
charitable, could scarcely be considered as a public
officer, exercising any portion of those duties which
belong to government; nor could the legislature have,
a I B1. Com. 471.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

is19.
supposed, that his private funds, or those given by
others, were subject to legislative management, be- Dartmouth
cause they were applied to the purposes of education. College
When, afterwards, his school was enlarged, and the Woodward.
liberal contributions made in England, and in America, enabled him to extend his cares to the education
of the youth of his own country, no change was
wrought in his own character, or in the nature of his
duties. Had he employed assistant tutors with the
funds contributed by others, or had the trustees in
England established a school with Dr. Wheelock at
its head, and paid salaries to him and his assistants,
they would still have been private tutors; and the
fact, that they were employed in the education of
youth, could not have converted them into public officers, concerned in the administration of public duties, or have:given the legislature a tight to interfere
in the managerient of the fund. The trustees, in
whose care that fund was placed by the contributors,
would have been permitted to execute their trust uncontrolled by legislative authority.
Whence, then, can be derived the idea, that Dartmouth College has become a public institution, and
its trustees public officers, exercising powers conferred by the public for public objects? Not from
the source whence its finds were drawn; for its
foundation is purely private and elemosynary-Not
from the application of those funds; for money may
be given for educatioii, and the persons receiving it do
not, by being employed in the education of youth,
become members of the. civil government. Is it from

636
1919.
Dartmouth

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the act of incorporation ? Let this subject be considered.

A corporation is an artificial being, invisible, inwoo..rL tangible, and existing only in contemplation of law.
Being the mere creature of Iaw, it possesses only
those properties which the charter of its creation confers upon it, either expressly, or as incidental to its
very existence. These are such as are supposed best
calculated to effect the object for which- it was ereated. Among the most important are immortality,
and, if the expression may be allowed, individuality;
properties, by which a perpetual succession of many
persons are considered as the same, and may act as
a single individual. They enable acorporation to
manage its own affairs, and to hold property without
the perplexing intricacies, the hazardous and endless
necessity, of perpetual conveyances for the purpose of
transmitting it from hand to hand. It is chiefly for
the purpose of clothing bodies of men, in succession, with these qualities and capacities, that corporations were invented, and are in use. By these
means, a perpetual succession of individuals are capable of acting, for the promotion of the particular
object, like one immortal being. But this being
does not share in the civil government of the
country, unless 'that be 'the purpose for which
it was created. Its immortality no more confers
on it political power, or a political Character, than
immortality would confer such power or character
on a natural person. It is no more a State instrument, than a natural person exercising the same
powers would be. If, then, a natural person, emColiege

OF THE UNITED. STATES.
1819.
ployed by'individuals in the education of. youth,
in which youth
•
. of a"'seminary
"'Dartmouth,
or for the government
is educated, would not become a public officer, or be Colege
considered as a member of the civil government, how Woodward.
is it, that this artificial being, created bylaw, for the purpose of being employed by the sameindividuals for the
same purposes, should become a part of the civil government of the country? Is it because its existence,
its capacities, its powers, are given by law ? Because
the government has given it the power to take and
to hold property in a.particular form, and for particular purposes, has the government a consequent
right substantially to change that form, or to vary the
purposes to which the property is to be applied?
This principle has never been asserted or recognized,
and is supported by no authority. Can it derive aid
from reason ?
The objects for which a corporation is created are
universally such as the government wishes to promote. They are deemed beneficial to the country;
and this benefit constitutes the consideration, and, in
most cases, the sole consideration of the grant. In
most eleemosynary institutions, the object would be
difficult, perhaps unattainable, without the aid of a
charter of incorporation. Charitable, or public spi.
rited individuals, desirous of making permanent appropriations for charitable or other useful purposes,
find it impossible to effect their design securely, and
certainly, without an incorporating act. They apply
to the government, state their beneficent object, and
offer to advance the money necessary for its accom-

638
1819.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT,

plishment, provided the government will confer on
instrument which is to execute their designs the
capacity to execute them. The proposition is considered and approved. The benefit to the public is
considered as an ample compensation for the faculty
it confers, and the corporation is created. If the advantages to the public constitute a full compensation
for the faculty it gives, there can be no reason for exacting a further compensation, by claiming a right to
exercise over this artificial being a power which
changes its nature, and touches the fund, for the se-

Sthe

Dartmouth

College

Woodard.

curity and application of which it was created.
There can be no reason for implying in a charter,
given for a valuable consideration, a power which is
not only not expressed, but is in direct contradiction
to its express stipulations.
From the fact, then , that a charter of incorporation has been granted, nothing can be inferred which
changes the character of the institution, or transfers
to the government any new power over it. The character of civil institutions does not grow out of their
incorporation, but out of the manner in which they
are formed, and the objects for. which they are cre-ate.
The right to change themis not founded on
their being incorporated, but on their bringthe instruments of government, created for its:purposes., The.
same institutions, created for the same ob'ects , though
:not incorporated, would be public institutions' and, of
course, be controllable by the legislature. The' incorporating act neither gives nor pIrevents this control. Neither, in reason, can the incorporating act'

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1819.
change the character of a private eleemosynary institution.
Dartmouth
We are next led to the inquiry, for whose benefit College
V.
the property given to Dartmouth College was se- Woodward,
cured ? The counsel for the defendant have insisted,
that the beneficial interest is in the people of NewHampshire. The charter, after reciting the preliminary measures which had been taken, and the application for an act of incorporation, proceeds thus:
"Know ye, therefore, that we, considering the premises, and being willing to encourage the laudable
and charitable design of spreading christian knowledge among the savages of our American wilderness, and, also, that the best means of education be
established, in our province of New-Hampshire, for
the benefit of said province, do, of our special grace,"
&c. Do these expressions bestow on New-Hampshire any exclu sive right to the property of the college, any exclusive interest in the labours of the professors ? Or do they merely indicate -a willingness
that New-Hampshire should enjoy those advantages
which result to all from the establishment of a' seminary of learning in the neighbourhood ? On this
point we think it impossible to entertain a serious
doubt. The words themselves, unexplained by the
context, indicate, that the "benefit intended for the
province" is that which is derived from "establishing the best means of education therein ;" that is,
from establishing in the province Dartmouth College, as constituted by the charter. tut, if these
words, considered aloneo could admit of doubt, that

640
1819.

,P

'
Dartmouth

College

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

doubt is completely removed by an inspection of
the entire instrument.

The particular interests of New-Hampshire never
entered intothe mind of the donors, never constituted
a motive for their donation. The propagation of the
christian religion among the savages, and the dissemination of useful knowledge among the youth of
the country, were the avowed and the sole objects of
their contributions. In these, New-Hampshire would
participate ; but nothing particular or exclusive was
intended for her. Even the site of the college was
selected, not for the sake of New-Hampshire, but
because it was "most subservient to the great ends
in view," and because liberal donations of land were
offered by the proprietors, on condition that the institution should be there established. The real advantages from the location of the college, are, perhaps, not less considerable to those on the west, than
to thoge on the east side of Connecticut river. The
clause which constitutes the incorporation, and expresses the objects for which it was made, declares
those objects to be the instruction of the Indians,
"and also of English youth, and any others." So
that the objects of the contributors, and the incorporating act, were the same; the promotion of christianity, and of education generally, not the interests of
New-Hampshire particularly.
From this review of the charter, it appears, that
Dartmouth College is an eleemosynary institution,
.incorporated for the purpose of perpetuating the application of the bounty of the donors, to the specified
objects of that bounty ; that its trustees or governors

OF THE UNITED STATES

were originally named by the founder, and invested - 18.
with the power of perpetuating themselves; that
Dartmouth
.
they are not public officers, nor is it a civil institution, College
V.
participating in the administration of government; Wowwa&d,
but a charity school, or a seminary of education, incorporated for the preservation of its property, and
the perpetual application of that property to the objects of its creation.
Yet a question remains to be considered, of more The chatter
of Dartmouth
real difficulty, on which more doubt has been enter- College, is a
the
tained than on all that have been discussed. The contract,
obligation
of
which
cannot
beimpairedby
contriwhose
those
least
founders of the college, at
a State law.
butions were in money, have parted with the property
bestowed upon it, and their representatives have no
interest in that property. The donors of land are
equally without interest, so long as the corporation
shall exist. Could they be found, they are unaffected by any alteration in its constitution, and probably
regardless of its form, or even of its existence. The
students are fluctuating, and no individual among our
youth has a vested interest in the institution,
which
can be asserted in a Court of justice. Neither the
founders of the college, nor the youth for whose benefit it was founded, complain of the alteration made
in its charter, or think themselves injured by it. The
trustees alone complain, and the trustees have no beneficial interest to be protected. Can this be such
a contract, as the constitution intended to withdraw
from the power of State legislation? Contracts, the
parties to which have a vested beneficial interest, and
those only, it has been said, are the objects about
IOL., IV.

81

642

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

which the constitution, is solicitous, and to which its
Sprotection is extended.
Dartmouth
The Court has bestowed on this argument the
College
Woodward. most deliberate consideration, and the result will be
stated. Dr. Wheelock, acting for himself, and for
those who, at his solicitation, had made contributions
to his school, applied for this charter, as the instrument which should enable him, and them, to~perpetu-_
ate their beneficent intention. It was grantbd. An
artificial, immortal being, was created by the crown,
capable of receiving and distributing forever, according to the will of the donors, the donations which
should be made to it. On this being, the contributions which had been collected were immediately
bestowed. These gifts were made, not indeed to
make a profit for the donors, or their posterity, but
for something in their opinion of inestimable value ;
for something which they deemed a full equivalent
for the money with which'it was purchased: The
consideration for which they stipulated, is the perpetual application of the fund to its object, in the
mode prescribed by themselves. Their descendants
may take no interest in the preservation of this consideration. But in this respect their descendants are
not their representatives. They are represented by
the corporation. The corporation is the assignee of
their rights, stands in their place, and distributes
their bounty, as they would themselves have distributed it, had they been immortal. So with respect
to the students who are to derive learning from this
source. The corporation is a MtTstee for them also.
Their potential rights, which, .taken ,distributively,
1.19.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

are imperceptible, amount collectively to a most'important interest. These are, in the aggregate, to be
exercised, asserted and protected, by the corporation.

1819.
arouth
..
College

They were as completely out of the donors, at the Woodward-,

instant of their being vested in the corporation, and
as incapable of being asserted by the students, as at
present.
According to the theory of the British constitution,
their parliament is omnipotent. To annul corporate
rights might give a shock to public opinion, which
that government has chosen to avoid ; but its power
is not questioned. Had parliament, immediately
after the emanation of this chartcr, and the execu-tion of those conveyances which followed it, annulled the instrument, so that the living donors would
have witnessed the disappointment of their hopes,
the perfidy of the transaction would have been universally acknowledged. Yet then, as now, the donors
would have had no interest in the property.; then, as
now, those who might' be students would have had
no rights to be violated ; then, as now, it might be
said, that the trustees, in whom the rights of all were
combined, possessed no private, individual, beneficial
interest in the property confided to their protection.
Yet the contract would at that time have been deemed sacred by all. What has since occurred to strip it
of its inviolability? Circumstances have not changed
it. In reason, injustice, and in law, it is now what
it was in 1769.
This is plainly a contract to which the donors, the
trustees, and the crown, (to whose rights and obligations New-Hampshire succeeds,) were the original

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

parties. It is a contract made on a valuable consiDartmouth deration. It is a contract for the security and dispoCollege
sition of property. It is a contract, on the faith of
Woodward. which, real and personal estate has been conveyed to
the corporation. It is then a contract within the letter of the constitution, and within its spirit also, unless the fact, that the property is invested by the
donors in trustees for the promotion of religion and
education, for the benefit of persons who are. perpetually changing, though the objects remain the same,
shall create a particular exception, taking this case
out of the prohibition contained in the constitution.
It is more than possible, that the preservation of
rights of this description was not particularly in the
view of the framers of the constitution, when the
clause under consideration was introduced into that
instrument. It is probable, that interferences of more
frequent recurrence, to which the temptation was
stronger, and of which the mischief was more extensive, constituted the great motive for imposing this
restriction on the State legislatures. But although a
particular and a rare case may not, in itself, be of
sufficient magnitude to induce a rule, yet it must be
governed by the rule, when established, unless some
plain and strong reason for excluding it can be given.
It is not enough to say, that this particular case was
not in the mind of the Convention, when the article
was framed, nor of the American people, when it
was adopted. It is necessary to go farther, and to
,say that, had this particular case been suggested, the
language would have been so varied, as to exclude it,
or it would have been made a special exception. The
1819.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

i8i..
case being within the words ofthe rule, must be within
its operation likewise, unless there be something in Dartmouth
the literal construction so obviously absurd, or mis- College
V.
chievous, or repugnant to the general spirit of the Woodward.
instrument, as to justify those who expound the constitution in making it an exception.
On what safe and intelligible ground can this exception stand. There is no expression in the constitution, no sentiment delivered by its contemporaneous expounders, which would justify us in making
it. In the absence of all authority of this kind, is
there, in the nature and reason of the case itself, that
which would sustain a construction of the constitution, not warranted by its words ? Are contracts of
this description of a character to excite so little interest, that we must exclude them from the provisions of the constitution, as being unworthy of the
attention of those who framed the instrument? Or
does public policy so imperiously demand their remaining exposed to legislative alteration, as to compel us, or rather permit us to say, that these words,
which were introduced to give stability to contracts,
and which in their plain import comprehend this
contract, must yet be so construed, as to exclude it ?
'Almost all eleemosynary corporations, those which
are created for the promotion of religion, of charity,
or of education, are of the same character. The
law of this case is the law of all. In every literary
or charitable institution, unless the objects of the
bounty be themselves incorporated, the whole legal
interest is in trustees, and can be asserted only by
them. The donors, or claimants of the bounty, if

,6,
6

CASES IN TIlE SUPREME COURT

they can appear in Court at all, can appear only to
of the trustees. In all other situations
College
they are identified with, and personated by, the trusV.'
Woocdward. tees; and their rights are to be defended and maintained by them. Religion, Charity, and Education,
are, in the law of England, legatees or donees, capable of receiving bequests or donations in this
form. They appear in Court, and claim or defend
by the corporation. Are they of so little estimation in the United States, that contracts for their benefit must be excluded'from the protection of words,
which in their natural import include them ? Or do
such contracts so necessarily require new modelling
by the authority of the legislature, that the ordinary
rules of construction must be disregarded in order to
leave them exposed toalegislative alteration ?
All feel, that these objects are not deemed unimportant in the United States. The interest which
this case has excited, proves that they are not. The
framers of the constitution did not deem them unworthy of its care and protection. . They have,
though in a different mode, manifested their respect
for science, by reserving to the government of the
Union the power " to promote the progress of
science and useful arts, by securing for limited times,
to authors and inventors, the exclusive right to their
respective writings and discoveries." They have
so far withdrawn science, and the useful arts, from the
action of the State governments. Why then should
they be supposed so regardless of contracts made
for the advancement of literature, as to intend to
exclude them from provisions, made for the security
isis.

hcomplain
Dartmouth

OF THE UNITED STATES.

647

1i8g.
of ordinary contracts between'man and man? No
Datmut
is
perceived.
reason for making . this supposition
bDartmouth
If the insignificance of the objectdoes not require Cotlege
that we should exclude contracts respecting it from Woodward.
the protection of the constitution; neither, as we
conceive, is the policy of leaving them subject-to legislative alteration so apparent, as to require.a forced
construction ofthat instrument in order to effect it.
These eleemosynary institutions do not fill the place,
which would otherwise be occupied by government,
but that which would Otherwise remain vacant.
'They are complete acquisitions to literature.. They
are donations to education; donatiunq, which any
government must be disposed rather to eucourage
than to discountenance. It requires no very critical
examination of the human mind to enable us to determine, thpt one great inducement to these gifts is

the conviction felt by the giver, that the disposition
he makes of them is immutable. It is probable,
that no man ever was, and that no man ever will be,
the founder of a college, believing at the time, that
an act of incorporation constitutes no security for the
institution; believing, that it is immediately to be
deemed a public institution, whose funds are to be
governed and applied, not by the will of the donor,
but by the will of the legislature. All such gifts are
made in the pleasing, perhaps delusive hope, that the
charity will flow forever in the channel which the
(rivers have marked out for it. If every man finds
in his own bosom strong evidence of the universality
of this sentiment, there can be but little reason to
,imagine, that the framers of our constitution. were

648 -

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

strangers to it, and that, feeling the necessity and
policy of giving permanence and security to conc
Dartmouth plyfe
College tracts, of withdrawing them from the influence of
Woodward. legislative bodies, whose fluctuating policy, and repeated interferences, produced the most perplexing
and injurious embarrassments, they still deemed it
necessary to leave these contracts subject to those interferences. The motives for such an exception
must be very powerful,. to justify the construction
which makes it.
The motives suggested at the bar grow out of the
original appointment of the trustees, which is supposed to have been in a spirit hostile to the genius of
our government, and the presumption, that, if allowed
to continue themselves, they now are, and must remain forever, what they. originally were. Hence is
inferred the necessity of applying to this corporation,
and to other similar corporations, the correcting and
improving hand of the legislature.
It has been urged repeatedly, and certainly with a
degree of earnestness which attracted attention, that
the trustees deriving their power from a regal source,
must, necessarily, partake of the spirit of their origin;
and that their first principles, unimproved by that resplendent light which has been shed around them,
must continue to govern the college, and to guide the
students. Before we inquire into the influence Which
this argument ought to have on the constitutional
question, it may not be amiss to examine the fact on
which it rests. The first trustees were undoubtedly
named in the charter by the crown; but at whose
suggestion were they named ? By whom were they
1819.

649

OF THE UNITED STATAS.

selected ? The charter informs us. Dr. Wheelock
had represented, "that, for many weighty reasons,

1819.
Dartmouth

it would be expedient, that the gentlemen whom he
had already nominated, in his last will, to be trustees
in America, should be of the corporation . now proposed." When, afterwards, the trustees are named
in the charter, can it be doubted that the persons mentioned by Dr. Wheelock in his will were appointed?
Some were probably added by the crown, with the
approbation of Dr. Wheelock. Among these is the
Doctor himself. If any others were appointed at the
instance of the crown, they are the governor, three
members of the council, and the speaker of the house
of representatives, of the colony of New-Hampshire.
The stations filled by these persons ought to rescue
them from any other imputation than too great a dependence on the crown. If in the revolution that
followed, they acted under the influence of this sentiment, they must have ceased to be trustees ; if they
took part with their countrymen, the imputation, which
suspicion might excite, would no longer attach to
them. The original trustees, then, or most of them,
were named by Dr. Wheelock, and those who were
added to his nomination, most probably with his approbation, were among the most eminent and respectable individuals in New-Hampshire.
The only evidence which we possess of the eharacter of Dr. Wheelock is furnished by this "charter.
The judicious means employed for the accomplishment of his object, and the success which attended
his endeavours, would lead to the opinion, that he
united a sound understanding to that humanity and

College

VOL. 1T.

82

V.

Woodward.

650

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

-benevolence which suggested his undertaking. It
Dartmouth surely cannot be assumed, that his trustees were seColleke
lected without judgment. With as little probability
V.
Woodward. can it he assumed, that, while the light of science,
and of liberal principles, pervades the whole community, these originally benighted trustees remain in
utter darkness, incapable of partP:ipating in the ge..
neral improvement; that, while the human race is
rapidly advancing, they are stationary. Reasoning
a priori, we should believe, that learined and intelli1819.

gent men, selected by its patrons for the government
of a literary institution, would select learned and intelligent men for their successors; men as well fitted
for the government of a college as those who might
be chosen by other means. Should this reasoning
ever prove erroneous in a particular case, public opinion, as has been stated at the bar, would correct
the institution. The mere possibility of the contrary
would not justify a construction of the constitution,
which should exclude these contracts from the protection of a provision whose terms comprehend
them.
The opinion of the Court, after mature deliberation, is, that this is a contract, the obligation. of which
cannot be impaired, without violating the constitution of the United States. This opinion appears to
us to be equally supported by reason, and by the former decisions of this Court.
2. We next proceed to the inquiry, whether its
obligation has been impaired by those acts of the

legislature of New-Hampshire, to which the special
verdict refers.

OF THE 'UNITED STATES.

1819.
From the review of this charter, which has been
taken, it appears, that the whole power of governingDartmouth

the--college, of appointing and removing tutors, of
fixing their salaries, of directing the course of study
to be pursued by the students, and of filling up vacancies created in their own body, was vested in the
trustees. On the part of the crown it was exp.ressly
stipulated; that this corporation,. thus constituted,

College
V.
Woodward.
The acts of
New.H.mp.
shire, of the

and of3th and
ber, 1816,-

ofpir the obli.
ation of the
Of
charter
Dartmouth.
College.

should continue forever ; and that the number of
trustees should forever consist of twelve, and no more.
and could
By this contract the crown was bound,
have made no violent alteration in its essential terms,
without impairing its obligation.
By the revolution, the duties, as well as the powers,
of government devolved on the people of NewHampshire. It is admitted, that among the latter
was comprehended the transcendent powerof parliament, as well as that of the executive department.
It is too clear to i:eqhuire the support of argument,
that all contracts, and rights, respecting property, reimained unchanged by the revolution. rhe obligations then, which were created by the charter to
*Dartmouth College, were the same in the new, that
they had been in the old government. The power
of the government was also the same. A repeal of
this charter at any time prior to the adoption of the
present constitution of the United States, would have
been an extraordinary and unprecedented act of power, but one which could have been contested only by
the restrictions upon the legislature, to be found in
the constitution of the State. But the constitution
of the United States has imposed this additional li-

652

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

mitation, that the legislature of a State shall pass no
Dartmouth act " impairing the obligation of contracts."
It has been already stated, that the act "to amend
Coege
Woodward. the charter, and enlarge and improve the corporation
of Dartmouth College," increases the number of
trustees to twenty-one, gives the appointment of the
additional members to the executive of the State, and
creates a board of overseers, to consist of twenty-five
persons, of whom twenty-one are also appointed by
the executive of New-Hampshire, who have power
to inspect and control the most iniportant acts of the
trustees.
On the effect of this law, two opinions cannot be
entertained. Between acting directly, and acting
through the agency of trustees and overseers, no essential difference is perceived. The whole power of
governing the college is transferred from trustees
appointed according to the will of the founder, expressed in the charter, to the executive of NewHampshire. The management and application of
the funds of this eleemosynary institution, which are
placed by the donors in the hands of trustees named
in the charter, and empowered to perpetuate themselves, are placed by this act under the control of the
government of the State. The will of the State is
substituted for-the will of the donors, in every essential operation of the college. This is not an immaterial change. The founders of the college contracted, not merely for the perpetual application of
the funds which they gave, to the objects for which
those funds were given; they contracted also, to secure that application by the constitution of the cor1819.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

653

1819.
poration. They contracted for a system, which
should, as far as human foresight can provide, retain
College
forever the government of the literary institution
~Vo
they had formed, in the hands of persons approved Wood~ward.
by themselves. Tfhis system is totally changed.
The charter of 1769 exists no longer. It is reorganized; and reorganized in such a manner, as to
convert a literary institution, moulded according to
the will of its founders, and placed under the control
of private literary men, into a machine entirely subservient to the will of government. This may be
for the advantage of this college in particular, and
may be for the advantage of literature in general ;
but it is not according to the will of the donors, and
is subversive of that contract, on the faith of which
their property was given.
ss.ees that
tt trustees
of
In the view •which has been taken of this interest- the
ing case, the Court has confined itself to the rights CDotghave
a beneficial inpossessed by the trustees, as the assignees and repre- terest therein.
sentatives of the donors and founders, for the benefit
of religion and literature. Yet it is not clear, that the
trustees ought to be considered as destitute of such
beneficial interest in themselves, as the law may respect. In addition to their being the legal owners of
the property, and to their having a freehold right in
the powers confided to them, the charter itself countenances the idea, that trustees may also be tutors
with salaries. The first president was one of the
original trustees; and the charter provides, that in
ease of vacancy in that office, "the senior professor
or tutor, being one of the trustees, shall exercise the
office of president, until the trustees shall make choice

664
1819.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

of, and appoint a president."

Dartmotth of

College

Woodward.

According to the tenor

the charter, then, the trustees might, without im-

propriety, appoint a president and other professors
from their own body. This is a power not entirely
unconnected with an interest Evbn if the proposition of the counsel for the defendant were sustained;
if it were -ad-itted,that those contracts only are
protected by the constitution, a beneficial interest in

which is vested in the party, who appears in Court
to assert that interest ; yet it is by no means clear,
th.at the trustees of Dartmouth College have no beneficial-interest in themselves.
But the Court has deemed it unnecessary to investigate this particular point, being of opinion, on general principles, that in these private eleemosynary institutions, the body corporate, as possessing the whole
legal and equitable interest, and completely representing the donors, for the purpose of executing the
trust, has rights which are protected by the constitution.
.It results from this opinion, that the acts of the
legislature of New-Hampshire, which are stated in
the special verdict found in this cause, are repugnant
to the constitution of the United States ; and that the
judgment on this special verdict ought to have been
for the plaintiffs. The judgment of the State Court
must, therefore, be reversed.
Mr. Juslice WASHINGTO .- This cause turns upon
the validity of certain laws of the State of New14 i pshire, which have been stated in the case, andwhich, it is contended by the counsel for the plaintiffs

OF THE UNITED STATES.

in error, are void, being repugnant to the constitution

655
1819.

to the, constitution of the Dartmouth
-of that State,
United States. Whether the first objection to these College
laws be well founded or not, is a question with which W .
this Court, in this case, has nothing to do: because
it has no jurisdiction, as an'appellate Court, over the
decisions of a State Court, except in cases where is
drawn in question the validity of a treaty, or statute
of, or- an authority exercised under, the United
States, and the decision is against their validity ; or
where is drawn in question the validity of a statute
of, or an authority exercised under, any State, on
the ground of their being repugnant to the constitution, treaties, or laws of the United'States, and the
decision is in favour of their validity; or where is
drawn in question the construction of any clause of
the constitution, or of a treaty, or statute of, or commission held under, the United States, and the decision is against the title, right, privilege, or exemption
specially set up or claimed by either party, under
such clause of the said constitution, treaty, statute,
or commission.
The clause in the constitution of the United States
which was drawn in question in the Court from
whence this transcript has been sent, is that part of
the tenth section of the first article, which declares,
that "no State shall pass any bill of attainder, ex
post facto law, or any law impairing the obligation
of contracts." The decision of the State Court is
against the title specially claimed by the plaintiffs in
error, under the above clause, because they contend,
that the laws of New-Hampshire, above referred to,
",
and."also

656
1S19.
t
Dartmouth

College

V.
Woodward.

Agrant isa

contract.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

impair the obligation of a contract, and are, consequently, repugnant to the above clause of the constitution of the United States, and void.
There are, then, two questions for this court to
decide :
1st. Is the charter granted to Dartmouth College
on the 13th of December, 1769, to be considered as
a contract ? If it be, then, 2dly. Do the laws in question impair its obligation ?
1. What is a contract ? It may be defined to be a
transaction between two or more persons, in which
each party comes under an obligation to the other,
and each reciprocally acquires a right to whatever is
promised by the other." Under this definition, says
Mr. Powell, it is obvious, that every feoffment, gift,
grant, agreement, promise, &c. may be included, because in all there is a mutual consent of the minds
of the parties concerned in them, upon an agreement
between them respecting some property or right that
is the object of the stipulation. He adds, that the
ingredients requisite to form a contract, are, parties,
consent, and an obligation to be created or dissolved:
these must all concur, because the regular effect of
all contracts is on one side to acquire, and on the
other to part with, some property or rights; or to
abridge, or to restrain natural liberty, by binding the
parties to do, or restraining them from doing, something which before they might have done, or omitted.
If a doubt could exist that a grant is a contract, the
point was decided in the case of Fletcher v. PeckJ
a Powell on Contr. 6.

b 6 Cranch, 87.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

657

1819.
in which it was laid down, that a contract is either
executory or executed ; by the former, a party binds
Dartmouth
himself to do or not to do a particular thing ; the College
latter is one in which the object of the contract is Woovdwar.
performed, and this differs in nothing from a grant;
but whether executed or executory, they both contain obligations binding on the parties, and both are
equally within the provisions of the constitution of
the United States, which forbids the State governments to pass laws impairing the obligation of
contracts.
If, then, a grant be a contract, within the meaning The creatior.
of the constitution of the United States, the next in- of pratbe
hgranttheas
inquiry is, whether the creation of a corporation by rcludes
oblicharter, be such a grant, as includes an obligation of gationofacon-

the nature of a contract, which no State legislature

tractwcho

state legisln-

ture can pass

laws toimpair.
can pass laws to impair?
A corporation is defined by Mr. Justice Blackstonea to be a franchise. It is,says he, "a franchise
for a number of persons, to be incorporated and exist as a body politic, with a power to maintain per 7
petual succession, and to do corporate acts, and each
individual of such corporation is also said to have a
franchise, or freedom." This franchise, like other
franchises, is an incorporeal hereditament issuing
out of something real or personal, or concerning or
annexed to, and exercisable within a thing corporate.
To this grant, or this franchise, the parties are, the
king, and the persons for Whose benefit it is created,
6r trustees for them. The assent of both is necesa 2 B1. Com. 37.
VoL. IV.

658

CASES IN T HE SUPREME COURT

8i19.
D
Dartmouth
College
Woodward.

sary. The subjects of the grant are not only privileges and immunities, but-property, or, which is the
same thing, a capacity to acquire and to hold property in perpetuity. Certain- obligations are created,
binding both on the grantor and the grantees. On
the part of the former, it amounts to an extinguish-.
ment of the king's prerogative to bestow the same
.identical franchise on another corporate body, because it would prejudice his prior grant.a It implies, therefore, a contract not to reassert the right to
grant the franchise to another, or to impair it. There
is also an implied contract, that the founder-of a private charity, or his heirs, or other persons appointed
by him for that purpose, shall have the-right to visit,
and to govern the corporation, of which he is the acknowledged founder and patron, and also, that in
case of its dissolution, the reversionary right of the
founder to the property, with which he had endowed
it, should be preserved inviolate.
The rights acquired by the other contracting party
are those of having perpetual succession, of suing
and being sued, of purchasing lands for the benefit
of themselves and their successors, and of having a
common seal, and of making bye-laws. The obligation imposed upon them, and which forms the consideration of the grant, is that of acting up to the end
or design for which Ihey were created by their founder. Mr. Justice Buller, in .the case of the King v.
Passmoreb says, that'the grant of incorporation is a
compact between the crown and a number of persons, the latter of whom undertake, in consideratiou
.a 2 B1. Com. 37.

3 T. R. US.:

OF THE UNITED STATES.

60

1819.
of the privileges bestowed,, to exert themselves for
the good government of the place. If they fail to Dartmouth
perform their part of it, 'there is an end of the corn- College
pact. The charter of a corporation, says Mr. Justice Woodwar;I
Blackstone, may be forfeited through negligence,
or abus6 of its franchises, in which case the law
judges, that the body politic has broken the condition upon which it was incorporated, and thereupon
the corporation is void.
It appears to me, upon the whole, that these principles and authorities prove, incontrovertibly, that a
charter of incorporation is a contract.
2. The next question is, do the acts of the legis- between
Ditinction
pub
lature of New-Hampshire of the 27th
of June, and corporations.
lic and private
•
con18th and 26th of December, 1816, impair this
tract, within the true intent. and meaning of the con-,
stitution of the United States ?
Previous to the. examination of this question, it
will be proper clearly to mark the distinction between the different kinds of lay aggregate corporations, in order to prevent any implied decision by
this Court of any-other case, than the one immediately before it.
We are informed, by the case of Philips v. Bury,'
which contains all the doctrine of corporations connected with this point, that there are two kinds of
corporations aggregate, viz. such as are forpublic government, and such as are for private charity. The.
first are those for the government of a town, city,
or the like; and being for public advantage, are
a 2 B1. Com. 484.

b I Ld. -Raym. 6. S. C. 2 T.. R. 340.

660

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

to be governed according to the law of the land.
Dartmouth The validity and justice of their private laws
College
and constitutions are examinable in the king's
.
Woodward. Courts. Of these there are no particular founders,
and consequently no particular visitor. There ate
no patrons of these corporations. But private and
particular corporations for charity, founded and endowed by private persons, are subject to the private
government of those who erect them, and are to be
visited by them or their heirs, or such other persons
asthey may appoint. The only rules for the government of these private corporations are the laws and
constitutions assigned by the founder. This right of
government and visitation arises from the property
which the founder had in the lands assigned to support the charity; and, as he is the author of the
charity, the law invests him with the necessary power
of inspecting and regulating it. The authorities are
full to prove, that a college is a private charity, as
well as a hospital, and that there is, in reality, no difference between them, except in degree; but they
are within the same reason, and both eleemosynary.
These corporations, civil and eleemosynary, which
differ from each other so especially in their nature and constitution, may very well differ in matters
which concern their rights and privileges, and their
existence and subjection to public control. The one
.is
the mere. creature of public institution, created exclusively for the public advantage, without other endowments than such as the king or government may
bestow upon it, and having no other founder or visitor
than the king or government, thefundator incipiens.
1819.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
i8i.
The validity and justice of its laws and constitution
over
jurisdiction
having
Dartmouth
are examinable by the Courts
V.
them ; and they are subject to the general law of the college
land. It would seem reasonable, that such a corpo- Wooward.
ration may be controlled, and its constitution altered
ani amended by the government, in such manner as
the public interest may require. Such legislative
interferences cannot be said] to impair the contract
by which the corporation was formed, because there
is in reality but one party to it, the trustees or governors of the corporation- being merely the trustees
for the public, the cestui que trust of the foundation.
These trustees or governors have no interest, no privileges or immunities, which are violated by such interference, and can have no more right to complain of
them, than an ordinary trustee, who is called upon in
a Court of Equity to execute the trust. They accepted the charter for the public benefit alone, and there
would seem to be no reason why the government,
under proper limitations, should not alter or modify
such a grant at pleasure. But the case of a private corporation is entirely different. That is the creature of
private benefaction for a charity or private purpose. It
is endowed and founded by private persons, and subject to their control, laws, and visitation, and not to,
the general control of the government ; and all these
powers, rights and privileges, flow from the property
of the founder-in the funds assigned for the support
of the charity. Although the king, by the grant. of
the charter, is in some sense the founder of. all
eleemosynary corporations, because without his
grant they cannot exist; yet the patron or endower
is the perficient founder, to whom belongs, as of

669

2CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

right, all the powers and privilege,. which have been
~'described. With such a corporation, it is not cornDartmouth
College
petent for the legislature to interfere. It is a franWoodVard. chise, or incorporeal hereditament, founded upon pri1819.

vate property, devoted by its patron to a private charity of a peculiar kind, the offspring of his own will
and pleasure, to be managed and visited by persons
of his own appointment, according to such laws and
regulations as he, or the persons so selected, may
ordain.
It has been shown, that the charter is a contract
on the part of the government, that the property with
which the charity is endowed, shall be for ever vested in a certain number of persons, and their successors, to subserve the particular purposes designated by
the founder, and to be managed in a particular way.
If a law increases or diminishes the number of the
trustees, they are not the persons which the grantor
agreed should be the managers of the fund. If it appropriate the fund intended for the support of a particular charity to that of some other charity, or to an
entirely different charity, the grant is in effect set
aside, and a new contract, substituted in its place;
thus disappointing completely the intentions of the
founder, by changing the objects of his bounty. And
can it be seriously contended, that a law, which,
changes so materially the terms of a contract, does
not impair it ? In short, does not every alteration of a
contract, however unimportant, even though it be
manifestly for the interest of the party objecting to
it, impair its obligation ? If the assent of all the patties to be bound by a contract be of its essence, how

OF THE UNITED STATES.

663

is it possible that a new contract, substituted for, or
1819.
engrafted on another"'without) such
assent, should not ,.h-tn.n,
Dartmouth
College
violate the old charter'?
V.
This course of reasoning' which -appears to be Woodward,
perfectly manifest, is not without authority to support
it. Mr. Justice Blackstone lays it down,a that the
same identical franchise, that has been before granted to one, cannot be bestowed on another; and the
reason assigned is, that it would prejudice the former
grant. In the King v. Passmore,b Lord Kenyon
says, that an existing corporation cannot. have another charter obtruded upon it by the crown. It may
,reject it, or accept the whole, or any part of the new
charter. The reason is obvious. A charter is a
contract, to the validity of which the consent of both
parties is essential, and, therefore, it cannot be altered
or added to without such consent.
But the case of Terrett v. Taylorc fully supports
the distinction above stated, betwepn civil and private
corporations, and is entirely in point. It was decided
in that case, that a private corporation, created by the
legislature, may lose. its franchises by misuser, or nonuser, and may be resumed by the government under
a judicial judgment of forfeiture. In respect to public corporations which exist only for public purposes,
such as towns, cities, &c. the legislature may, under
proper limitations, change, modify, enlarge, or restrain
them, securing, however, the property for the use of
those for whom, and at whose expense, it was purchased. But it'is denied, that it has power to repeal
a 21.

rom.37.

b 3 T. R. 246.

e 9 Crandi, 43.

664

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

statutes creating private corporations, or confirming
them property already acquired under the faith of
Sto
Dartmouth
College previous laws; and that it can, by such repeal, vest
o.
the 1property of such corporations in the State, or
Woodward.
dispo. e of the same to such purposes as it may please,
without the consent or default of the corporators.
Such a law, it is declared, would be repugnant both
to the spirit and the letter of the constitution of the
United States.
1819.

The .of
oblig.the
tions

If these principles, before laid down, be correct, it

of cannot be denied that the obligations of the charter
charter
Dartmnouth
Coilw, are to Dartmouth College are impaired by the laws under
the awsin. consideration. The name of the corporation, its
question.

constitution and government, and the objects of the
founder, and of the grantor of the charter, are totally
changed. By the charter, the property of this founder was vested in twelve trustees, and no more, to be
disposed of by them, or a majority, for the support
of a college, for the education and instruction of the
Indians, and also of English youth, and others. Under the late acts, the trustees and visitors are different; ana the property and franchises of the college
are transferred to different and new uses, not contemplated by the founder. In short, it is most obvious, .that the effect of these laws is to abolish the
old corporation, and to create, a new one in its stead.
The laws of Virginia, referred to in the case of Terrett v. Taylor, authorized the overseers of the poor
to sell the glebes belonging to the Protestant Episcopal Church, and ioappropriate the proceeds to other
uses. The laws in question devest the trustees of
Dartmouth College of the property vested, in them

OF THE UNITED STATES.,

by the founder, and vest it in other. trustees, for the

1819.

support of a different institution, called Dartmouth

Dartmouth

University. In what respects do they differ? Would
the difference have been greater in principle, if the
law had appropriated the funds of the college to the
making of turnpike roads, or -to any other purpose of
a public nature ? In all respects, in which the contract has been altered without the assent of the corporation, its obligations have been impaired ; and the
degree 'can make no difference in the construction of
the above provision of the constitution.
It has been.insisted in the argument at the bar, that
Dartmouth College was a mere civil corporation,
created for a public purpose, the public being deeply
interested in the education of its youth; and that,
consequently, the charter was as much under the control of the government of New-Hampshire, as if tre
corporation had'concerned the government 'ofa town
or city. But it has been shown, that the authorities
are all the other way. There is not a case to be
found which contradicts the doctrine laid down in
the case of Philips v. Bury, viz. that a college founded by an individual, or individuals, is a private charity,
subject to the government and visitation of the founder, and not' to the unlimited controf of the governMent.
It is objected, in this case, that Dr. Wheelock is
not the founder of Dartmouth College. Admit he is
not. How would this alter the case? Neither the
king, nor the province of New-Hampshire was the
*founder; and if the contributions made by the governor of New-Hampshire, by those persons who

College

Vo%. IV.

84

V.

Woodward.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

666
1819.

granted lands for the college, in order to induce its
in a particular part of the State, by the other
liberal contributors in England and America, bestow
upon them claims equal with Dr. Wheelock, still it
would not alter the nature of the corporation, and
convert it into one for public government., It would
still be a private eleemosynary corporation, a private
charity endowed by a number of persons, instead of
a single individual. But the fact.is, that whoever
may mediately have contributed to swell the funds of
this charity, they were bestowed at the solicitation of
Dr. Wheelock, and vested in persons appointed by
him, for the use of a charity, of which he was the
immediate founder, and is so styled in the charter.
Upon the whole, I am of opinion, that the above
acts of New-Hampshire, not having received the assent of the corporate body of Dartmouth College,
are not, binding on them, and,consequently, that the
judgment of the State Court ought to be reversed.

Slocation

Dartmouth

College

Woodward.

Mr. Justice JOHNSON concurred, for the reasons
stated by the Chief Justice.
Mr. Justice LIVINGSTON concurred, for the reasons.
.tated by the Chief Justice, and Justices WASHINGTON and STORY.

Mrs' Justice STo Ry. This is a cause of great iinportance, and as the very learned discussions, as well'
here, asin the State Court, show, of no inconsiderable difficulty.. There are-two questions, to which the
appellate jurisdiction of this ,Court properly applies.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1. Whether the original charter of Dartmouth College is a contract within the prohibitory clause of the
constitution of the United States, which declares,
that no State shall pass any " law impairing the obligation of contracts." 2. If so, whether the legislative acts.of New-Hampshire of the 27th of June,
and of the 18th and 27th of December, 1816, or any
of them, impair the obligations of that charter.
''It will be necessary, however, before we proceed
to discuss these questions, to institute an inquiry into
the nature, rights, and duties of aggregate corporations at common law; that we may apply the principles, drawn from this source, to the exposition of
this charter, which was granted emphatically with
reference to that law.
An aggregate corporation at common law is a collection of individuals united into one collective body,
under a special name, and possessing certain immunities, privileges, and capacities in its collective character, which do not belong to the natural persons
composing it. Among other things it possesses the
capacity of perpetual succession, and of acting by
the collected vote or will of its component members,
.'and of suing and being sued in all things touching
its corporate rights and duties. It is, in short, an
artificial person, existing in contemplation of law,
and endowed with certain powers and franchises
which, though they must be exercised through the
medium of its natural members, are yet
considered
as subsisting in the corporation.itself,.as distinctly as
if it were a real personage. Hence, such a corporatidn may sue and be sued by its own membcr; and.

66T1819.
Dartmouth
College
V.
Woodward.

The nature
and different
kinds of aggregate corporations.

668

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1819.
Dartmouth
Dany

College
V.

may contract with them in the same manner as vith
strangers.a

A great variety of these corporations

exist in every country governed by the common

Woodward. law ; in some of which the corporate existence is

perpetuated by new elections, made from time to
time; and in others by a continual accession of new
members, without any corporate act. Some of these
corporations are, from the particular purposes to which
they are devoted, denominated spiritual, and some
lay; and the latter are again divided into civil and
eleemosynary corporations. It is unnecessary, in this
place, to enter into any examination of civil corpora-

tions. Eleemosynary corporations are such as are
constituted for the perpetual distribution of the free
alms and bounty of the founder, in such manner as
he has directed ; and in this class are ranked hospitals for the relief of poor and impotent persons, and
colleges for the promotion of learning and piety, and
the support of persons engaged in literary pursuits.'
Another division of corporations is into public and
private. Public corporations are generally esteemed
such as exist for public political purposes only, such
as towns, cities, parishes, and counties and in many
respects they are so, although they involve some private interests ; but strictly speaking, public corpora-.
a 1 B1. Corn. 469. 475. 1 Kyd Corp. 13.69. 189. 1 Woodes.
471. &c. &c.
b I Bl. Coin. 469. 470. 471. 482.

1 Kyd'Corp. 25.

1 Woodes.

474. Attorney General v. Whorwood, 1 Ves. 534. St. John's
College v.'Todington, I Bi. Rep. 84. S. C. I Bur. 200. Phillips v. Bury, I Ld. Rain. 5. S. C. 2 T. R. 346. Porter's

Case, I Co. 22i b. 23.

OF THE UNITED STATE.

lions are such only as are founded by the government for public purposes, where ihe whole interests
belong also to the government. If, therefore, the
foundation be private, though under the charter of
the government, the corporation is private, however
extensive the 'uses may be to which it 'is devoted,
either by the bounty of the founder, or the nature and
objects of the institution. For instance, a bank created by the government for its own uses, whose
stock is exclusively owned by the government, is, in
the strictest sense, a public corporation. So a hospital created and endowed by the government for
general charity. But a bank, whose stock is owned
by private persons, is a private corporation, although
it is erected by the government, and its objects and
operations partake of a public nature. The same
doctrine may be affirmed of insurance, canal, bridge,
and turnpike companies. In all these cases, the uses
may, in a certain sense, be called public, but the
corporations are private; as much so, indeed, as if
the franchises were vested in a single person.
This reasoning applies in its full' force to eleemosynary corporations. A hospital founded by a private
benefactor is, in. point of law, a private corporation,
although dedicated by its charter to general charity.
So a college, founded and endowed in the same manner,. although, being for the promotion of learning
and piety, it may extend its charity to scholars from
every class in the community, and thus acquire the
character of a public institution. This is the unequivocal doctrine 'of the authorities; and cannot be

M
181g.
Dartmouth
College
V'.
Wodward;

,67o

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

shaken but by undermiiing the most solid founda-

1819.
'

'tions

Dartmouth
College
V.
Woodward.

of the common law.a

It was indeed supposed at the argument, that if
the uses of an eleemosynary corporation be for general charity, this alone would constitute it a public
corporation. But the law is certainly not so. fTo
be sure, ii a certain sense, every charity, which is
extensive in its reach, may bV, called a public charity,
in contradistinction to a charity embracing but a few
definite objects. In this sense the langu*age was unquestionably used by Lord Hardwicke in the case
cited at the argument ;b and, in this sense, a private
corporation may well enough be denominated a public
chaityi. So it would be, if the endowment, instead
of being vested in a corporation, were assigned to a
private' tristce ; yet in such a case no one would
-imagine
that. the trust ceased to be private, or the
funds became public property. That the mere act
of. incorporation will not change the charity from a
private to a public one) is most distinctly asserted in
the authorities. Lord Hard wicke, in the case already
alluded to, says, " the charter of the crown cannot
make a charity more or less public, but only more
permanent than it would otherwise be; but it is the
extensiveness, which will constitute it a public one.
A devise to the poor of the parish is a public charity.
Where testators leave it to the discretion of a trustee to choose out the objects though each particular
a Phillips v. Bury, 1 Ld. Ray. 9. 9.

S. C. 2 T. R. 346.

.b Attorney General v. Pearse, 2 Ak. 87.
-at*ar-table Uses, .E. 589.

1 Bac. Abr. tit.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1819.
object may be said to be private, yet in the extensiveness of the benefit accruing from them, they may Dartmoutl
properly be called public charities. A sum to be dis- Collego
V.
posed of by A. B. and his executors, at their discre- Woodward.
tion, among poor house-keepers, is of this kind."
The charity, then, may, inthis sense, b3 public, although" it may be administered by private trustees;
and, for the same reason, it may thus be public,
though administered by a private corporation. The
fact, then, that the charity is public, affords no proof
that the corporation is also public; and, consequently, the argument, so far as it is beiilt on this foundation,' falls to the ground. 1f, indeed, the argument
were correct, it would follow, that almost every hospital and college would be a public corporation; a
doctrine utterly irreconcilable with the whole currefit of decisions since the time of Lord Coke.a
When,then,the argument assumes, that because the
charity is public, the corporationIis public, it manifestly confounds the popular, with the strictly legal sense of
the terms. And if it stopped here, it would not be very
material to correct the error. But it is on this foundation,.that a superstructure is erected,which is to compel
a surrender of the cause. When the corporation issaid
at the bar to be public, it is not merely meant, that
the whole community may be the proper objects of the
bounty, hut that the government have the sole right,
astrustees of the public interests, to regulate, control,
and direct the corporation, and its funds and its franchises, at its own good will and, pleasure. Now, such
The case of Sutton's Hospital,

to Co. 23.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

672

an authority does not exist in the government, except
the corporation is in the strictest sense public
Dartmouth
College
that is, where its whole interests and franchises are
Woodad. 'the exclusive property and domain of the government
itself. If it had been otherwise, Courts of law would
have been spared many laborious adjudications in respect to eleemosynary corporations, and the visitatorial
powers over them, from the time of Lord Holt down
to the present day." Nay, more, private trustees for
charitable purposes would have been liable to have
the property confided to their care taken away ,from
them without any assent or default on their part, and
the administration submitted, not to the control of
law and equity, but to the arbitrary discretion of the
government. Yet, who ever thought before, that the
munificent gifts of private donors for general charity
became instantaneously the property of the government; and that the trustees appointediby the donors,
whether corporate or unincorporated, might be compelled to yield up their rights to whomsoever'the government might appoint to administer them ? If we
were to establish such a priniple, it would extinguish all future eleemosynary endowments; and we
should find as little of public policy, as we now find
of law to sustain it.
An eleemosynary corporation, then, upon a private foundation, being a private corporation, it is
next to be considered, what is deemed a foundation,
1819.

Swhere

a Rex v. Bury, 1 Ld. Ray. 5. S. C. Comb. 265.

Holt, 715.

I &iow. 300. 4 Mod. 106. Skin. 447. and Ld. Holt's opinion
from his own MS. in 2 T. R. 346.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

670

1819..
and who is the founder. This cannot be stated with
more brevity and exactness than in the language of Dartmouth
the elegant commentator upon the laws of England; Colfege
The founder of all corporations (says Sir William Woodward.

Blackstone,) in the strictest pnd original sense, is the
king alone, for he only can incorporate a society;
and in civil corporations, such as mayor, commonalty,
&c. where there are no possessions or endowments
given to the body, there is no other founder but the
king; buit in eleemosynary foundation, such as colleges and hospitals, where there is an endowment of
lands, the law distinguishes and makes two species
of foundation, the onefundatio incipiens, or the incorporation, in which sense the king is thQ general
founder of all colleges and hospitals ; the otherfundatio perficiens, or the dotation of it, in which sense
the first gift of the revenues is the foundation, and
he who gives them is, in the law, the founder.; and it
is in this last sense we generally call a man the founder of a coll ege or hospital." a
To all eleemosynary corporations a visitatorial
power attaches, as a necessary incident; for these
corporations being composed of individuals, subject
to human infirmities, are liable, as well as private
persons, to deviate from the' end of their institution.
The law, therefore, has provided, that there shall
somewhere exist a power to visit, inquire into, and
correct all irregularities and abuses in such corporations,..and to compel the original purposes of the
charity to be faithfully fulfilled.6 The nature and
extent of this visitatorial power has been expounded
a 1 Bi. Com. 480.
Vor,. IV.

6 1 B1. Com. 480.

10 Co. 33.
85

674,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

with admirable fulness and. accuracy by Lord H&
in one of his most celebrated judgments." And of
College
common right by the dotation the founder and his
Woodward. heirs are the legal visitors, unless the founder hag
appointed and assigned another person to be visitor.
For the founder may, if he please, at the time of
the endowment, part with his visitatorial pover,
and the person to whom it is assigned will, in that
case, possess it in exclusion of the founder's heirs.'
This visitatorial power is, therefore, an hereditament
founded in property, and valuable iUf intendment of
law; and stands upon the maxim, that he who gives
his property, has a right to regulate it in future.
It includes also the legal right of patronage, for as
Lord Holt justly observes, "patronage and visitation are necessary consequents one upon another."
No technical terms are necessary to assign or vest
the visitatorial power; it is sufficient if,. from the
nature of the duties to be performed by particular
persnns under the charter, it can be inferred, that
the founder meant to part with it in their favour:
and he may divide it among various persons, or subject it to any modifications or control, by the fundamental statutes of the corporation. But where the
appointment is given in general terms, the whole
power vests in the appointee.c In the construction
.1819.
Da ou

a Phillips v. Bury, I Ld. Ray. 5. S. C. 2 T. R. 346.
b 1 BL. Corn. 4'02.
c Eden v. Foster, 2 P. W. 325. Attorney General v. Middleton, 2 Ves. 327. St. Johns Collegev. Todington, I BI.
Rep. 84. S. C. 2 Bur. 200. Attorney General v. Clare College, 3 Attk,. 602. S. C. 1 Ves. 78.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

675

Iola.
of charters too, it is a general rule, that if the ohjects of the charity are incorporated, as for instance, Dartmouth
the master and fellows of a college, or the master

'College
V.

and poor of a hospital, the visitatorial power, in the Woodward.
absence of any special appointment, silently vests in
the founder and his heirs, But where trustees or governors are incorporated to manage the charity, the
visitatorial power is d,&emed to belong to. them in
thicr coporate character."

. When a private eleemosynary corporation is thus
created by the charter of the crown, it is subject to
no other control on the part of the-crowrx than what
is expressly or implicitly reserved by the charter
itself. Unless a power be reserved for this purpose,
the crown cannot, in virtue of its prerogative, without the consent of the corporation, alter or amend
the charter, or devest the corporation of any of its
franchises, or add to them, or add to, or diminish, the
number of the trustees, or remove any of the members, or change, or control the administration of the
charity, or, compel the corporation to Yeceive a.new
charter. This is the uniform language of the authorities, and forms one of the most stubborn, and well
settled doctrines of the common law.'
-But an eleemosynary, like every other corporation,
is subject to the general law of the land. It may
forfeit its corporate franchises, by misuser or nonuser
a Phillips v. Bury, 1 Ld. Ray. 5. S. C. 2 T. R. 346. Green
v. Rutherforth, I Ves. 472. Attorney General v. Middleton,
2 Ves. 327. Case of Sutton Hospital, 10 Co. 23. 31.
b See Rex v. Passmore, 3 T. R. 199. and the cases there

cited.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1819.

of them. It is subject to the controling authority of
legal visitor, who, unless restrained by the terms

Sits

Dartmouth
College
V¢.

of the charter, may amend and repeal its statutes,
Woodward. remove its officers, correct abuses, and generally superintend the management of the trusts. Where
indeed the visiratorial pow-er is vested in the trustees
of the charity in virtue of their incorporation,.there
can be no amotion of them from their corporate capacity. But they are not, therefore. placed beyona
the reach of the law. As managers of the revenues
of the corporation, they are subject to the general
superintending power of the Court of Chancery, not
as itself possessing a visitatorial power, or a right to
control the charity, but as possessing a general jurisdiction in all cases of an abuse of trusts to redress
grievances, and suppress frauds." And where a corporation is a mere trustee of a charity, a Court of
equity will go yet farther; and though it cannot appoint or remove a corporator, it will yet, in a case of
a 2 Fonb. Eq. B. 2. pt. 2. ch. 1. s. 1. note (a.)
Coop. Eq.
Pl. 292.
2 I yd Corp.' 195. Green v. Rutherforth, 1 Ves.
462. Attorney General v. Foundling Hospital, 4 Bro. CA. 165.
S. C. 2 Ves. jun. 42. Eden v. Foster, 2 P. W. 325. 1 Woodes.
476. Attorney General v. Price, 3 AIIk. 108. Attorney General v. Lock, 3 .1l1k. 164. Attorney General v. Dixie, 13 Ves.
519. Ex parte Kirkby Ravensworth Hospital, 15 Ves. 304.
314. Attorney General v. Earl of Clarendon, 17 Ves. 491.
499. Berkhamster-d Free School, 2 Ves. & Beames, 134. Attorney General v. Corporation of Carmarthen, Coop. Rep. 30.
Mayor, &c. of Colchester v. Lowten, 1 Ves, 4- Beames, 226.
Rex v. Watson, 2 T. R. 199. Attorney General v. Utica Ins.
Co. 2 Johns. Ch. R., 371. Attorney General v. Middleton,
! Ves. 327.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1819.
gross fraud, or abuse of trust, take away the trust
,
from the corporation, and vest it in other hands.
Dartmouth
Thus much it has been thought proper to premise College
.respecting the nature, rights, and duties of eleemosy- wv
nary corporations, growing out of the common law.
We may now proceed to an examination of the original charter of Dartmouth College.
It begins by a recital, among other things, that the
Rev. Eleazer Wheelock, of Lebanon, in Connecticut,
about the year 1754, at his own expense, on his own
estate, set on foot an Indian charity school ; and by
the assistance of other persons, educated a number
of the children of the Indians, and employed them
as missionaries and schoolmasters among the savage
tribes; that the design became reputable among the
Indians, so that more desired the education of their
children at the school, than the contributions in the
American colonies would support; that (he, said Wheelock thought it expedient to endeavour to procure
contributions in England, and requested the Rev.
Nathaniel Whitaker to go to England as his attorney, to solicit contribution,and also solicited the Earl
of Dartmouth, and others, to receive the contributions
and become trustees thereof, which they cheerfully
agreed to, and he constituted them trustees accordingly by a power of attorney, and they testified their
acceptance by a sealed instrument; That the said
Wheelock also authorized the trustees to fix and dea Mayor, &c. of Coventry v. Attorney General, 7 Bro. Parl.
Cases, 235. Attorney General v. Earl of Clarendon, 17 Ves.
491. 499.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

678
1819.

-'

Dartmou th
College
V.

Woodward.

termine upon the placefor the said school; and, to
enahle then understandingly to give the prefqrence,
laid before them, the several offers of the governments in America, inviting the settlement of the
school among them ; that a large number of the proprietors of lands, in the western parts of New-Hampshire, to aid the design ; and consideringthat the same
school might be enlarged and improved to promote
learning among the English, and to supply the
churches there with an orthodox ministry, promised
large tracts of land for the uses aforesaid, provided
the school should be settled in the western part of said
province ; that the trustees thereupon gave a preference to the western part of said province, lying on
Connecticut river, as a situation most convenient for
said school: That the said !VWheelock further represented the necessity for a legal incorporation,in order
to th' safty and well-being of said seminary, and its
being capable of the tenure and diposal of lands and
bequestsfor the use of the same ; tha t in the infancy
of said institution, certain gentlemen whom he had
already nominated in2his last will (which he had
transmitted to the trustees in England) to be trustees
in America, should be the coporation now proposed;
and lastly, that there were already large contributions for said school in the hands of the trustees in
England, and further success might be expected;
for which reason the said Wheelock desired they
might be invested with all that power therein, which
could consist with their distance from the same.
The charter, after these recitals, declares, that the
king, considering the premises, and being willing to

OF THE UNITED STATES.

679'

encourage the charitable design, and that the best "819.
means of education might be established in New- Dtiu
Hampshire for the benefit thereof, does, of his special_ c.iiece
grace, certain knowledge, and mere mohon, ordain W .

and grant, that there be a college erected in NewHampshire, by the name of Dartmouth College, for the
education and instruction of youth of the Indian tribes,
and also of English youth and others ;-that the trustees
of said college shall be a corporation-forever, by the.
name of the trusteesof Dartmouth College: that the
then governor of New-Hampshire, the said Wheelock,
and ten other persons, specially named in the charter,
shall be trustees of the said college, and that the
whole number of trustees shall forever thereafter consist of twelve, and no more ; that the said corporation
shall have power to sue and to be sued by their corporate name, and to acquire and hold for the use of
the said Dartmouth College, lands, tenements, hereditaments, and franchises; to receive, purchase, and
build any houses for the use of said college, in such
town in the western part of New. Hampshire, as the

trustees, or a major part of them, shall by a writen'
instrument agree on ; and to receive, accept, and dispose of any lands, goods, chattels, rents, gifts, legacies, &c. &c. not exceeding the yearly value of 6,0001.
It further declares, that the trustees, or a major part
of them, regularly convened, (for whichpurpose seven
shallform a quorum,) shall have authority to appoint
and remove the professors, tutors, and other officers
of the college, and to pay them, and also such mis-

sionaries and schoohnastersas shall be employed by
lhe trustees for instruciug the Indian. salaries and

680

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

allowances, as well as other corporate expenses, out
It further declares, that, the
Dartmouth of the corporate funds.
College said trustees, as often as one or more of the trustees
V.
Woodward. shall die, 0, by removal or-otherwise, shall, according
to their judgment, become unfit or. incapable to serve
the interests of the college, shall haile power to elect
and appoint other trustees in their stead, so that when
the. whole number shall be complete of twelve trustees, eight shall be resident freeholders of NewHampshire, and seven of the whole number, laymen.
It further declares that theotrustees shall have power
from time to time to make and establish rules, ordinances, and laws for the governmcnt of the college
not repugnant to the laws of the land, and to confer
collegiate degrees. It further appoints the said Whee1819.

lock, whom it denominates " the

FOUNDER

of the

college," to be president of the college, with authority to appoint his successor, who shall be president
until disapproved of by th& trustees. It then concludes with a direction, that it shall be the duty of
the president to transmit to the trustees in England,
so long as they should perpetuate their board, and as
there should be Indian natives remaining to be proper objects of the bounty, an annual account of all
the disbursements from the donations in England,
and of the general plans and prosperity of the institution.
Such are the most material clauses of the charter.
It is observable, in the first place, that no endowment
whatever is given by the crown; and no power is reserved to the crown or government in any manner to
alter, amend, or control the charter. It is also appa-

L

OF THE UNITED STATES

rent, from the very terms of the charter, that, Dr.

11819.

Wheelock is recognized as the founder of the college, Dartmouth
and that the charter is granted upon his application, College
and that the trustees were in fact nominated by him. Woodwar&.
In the next place it is apparent, that the objects of
the institution are purely charitable; for the distribution of the private contributions of private benefactors. The charity was, in the sense already explained, a public charity, that is, for the general promotion of learning and piety; but in this respect it
was just as much public before, as after the incorporation. The only effect of the charter was to give
permanency to the design, by enlarging the sphere
of its action, and granting a perpetuity of corporate
powers and franchises the better to secure the administration of the benevolent donations.- As founder, too, Dr. Wheelock and his heirs would have
been completely clothed with the visitatorial power;
but
the whole government and control, as well of the
officers
as of the revenues'of the college, being
with
his consent assigned to the trustees in'their corporate character, the visitatorial power, which is included in this authority, rightfully devolved on the.
trustees. As managers of the property and revenues of the corporation, they were amenable to the
jurisdiction of the judicial tribunals of the State;
but as visitors, their discretion was limited only by
the charter, and liable to no supervision or control,
at least, unless it was fraudulently misapplied.
From this summary examination it follows, that
Dartmouth College was, under its original charter,
a private eleemosynary corporation. Qndowod with
VOL. IV.

'682

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1819.

Dartmouth
College

~ the usual privileges and franchises ot such corporations, and, among others, with a legal perpetuity,

V.g

and was exclusively under the government and con-

Woodward.

trol of twelve trustees, who were to be elected and

The charter
of Dartmouth
College. is a

a'ppQinted, from time to time, by the existing board,
as vacancies or removals should occur.
We are now led to the consideration of the first

contract with.
in
thatconstituclause
of the

question in the cause, whether this charter is a con-

tract,, within the clause of the constitution prohibitfrom ing the States from passing any law impairing the

tion
which
rohibits tim
tates

passing

any

law impairog
the obigation

ofcontracts.

obligation of contracts. In the case of Fletcher v.
Peck, this Court laid down its exposition of the

word "contract" in this clause, in the following manner: " A contract is a compact between two or
more persons, and is either executory or executed. An
executory contract is one, in which a party binds

himself to do or not to do a particular thing. A
contract executed is one in which the object of the
contract is performed; and this, says Blackstone,
differs in nothing from a grant. A contract executed,
as well as one that is executory, contains obligations
binding on the parties. A grant in its own nature
amounts to an extinguishment of the right of the
grantor, and implies a contract not to reassert that
right. A party is always estopped by his own
grant." This language is perfectly unambiguous,

and- was used in reference to a grant of land by the
Governor of a State under a legislative act. It determines, in the most unequivocal manner, that the
grant of a State is a contract within the clause of
a 6 Cranch, 87. 136.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1019.
the constitution now in question, and that it implies
~Dartmouth
D
A
granted.
a contract nuot to reassume the rights
,,ilege
Vr.
,fortiori,the doctrine applies to a charter or grant from

the king.

Woodward.

But it is objected, that the charter of Dartmouth
College is not a contract contemplated by the constitution, because no valuable consideration passed to
the king as an equivalent for the. grant, it purportilg
to be granted ex meo motu, and firther, that no contracts merely voluntary are within the prohibitory
clause. It must be admitted, that mere executory
contracts cannot be enforced at law,'4nless there be
a valuable consideration tor sustain them; and the
constitution certainly did not mean to create any new
obligations, or give any new efficacy to nude pacis.
But it must, on the other hand, be also admitted,
that the constitution did intend' to preserve all the
obligatory force of.contracts, which they have by the
general principles of law. Now, when a contract
has once passed, bona fide, into grant, neither the
king nor. any private person, who may be the grantor,
can recal the grant of the property, although the conveyance may have been purely voluntary. A gift,
completely executed- is irrevocable. The property
conveyed by it becomes, as against the donor,
the absolute property of the donee; and no subsequent change of intention of the donor can
change the rights of the donee.a And a gift by the
crown of incorporeal hereditaments, such as corporate franchises, when executed, comes completely
a 2 B1. Com. 441. Jenk. Cent. 104.

684

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

within the principle, and is, in the strictest sense of
Dartmouth the terms, a grant.a Was it ever imagined that land,
College
voluntarily granted to any person by a State, was
V.
Woodward. liable to be resumed at its own good pleasure? Such
a pretension would, under any circumstances, be truly
alarming; but in a country like ours, where thousands
of land titles had their origin in gratuitous grants of
'the States, it would go far to shake the foundations
of the best'settled estates. And a grant of franchises
is not, in point of principle, distinguishable from a
grant of any other property. If, therefore, this charter were a pure donation, when the grant was complete, and accepted by the grantees, it involved a contract, that the grantees should hold, and the grantor
should not reassume the grant, as much as if it had
been founded on the most valuable consideration.
But it is not admitted that this charter was not
granted for what the law deems a valuable consideration. For this purpose it matters not how trifling
the consideration may be ; a pepper corn is as good
as a thousand dollars. Nor is it necessary that the
consideration should be a benefit to the grantor. It
is sufficient if it import damage or loss, or forbearance of benefit, or any act done, or to be done, on
the part of the grantee. It is unnecessary to state
cases ; they are familiar to the mind of every
lawyer.'
With these principles in view, let us now examine
1819.

a 2 Bi Com. 317. 346. Shep. Touch. ch. 12. p. 2M.
b Pillans v. Van Mierop. per Yates, J. 3 Burr. 166,.
Forth
v. Staunton, 2 Saund. Rep. 211. Williams' note 2, and the cases

there cited.

OF TIHE UNITED STATE.

685

the terms of this charter. It purports, indeed, on its
face, to be granted " of the special grace, certain

1819.
Dtuth

knowledge, and mere motion" of the king; but these College
V.
words were introduced for a very different purpose Woodward.
from. that now contended fr. .It is a general rule
of tile common law, (the reverse of that applied in
ordinary cases,) that a grant of the king, at the suit
of the grantee, is to be construed most beneficially
for the king, and most strictly against the grantee.
Wherefore, it is usual to insert in the king's grants a
Clause, that they are made, not at the suit of the
grantee, but of the special grace, certain knowledge,
and mere motion of the king ; and then they receive
a more liberal construction. This is the true object
t"the clause in question, as we are informed by the
most accurate authorities.a But the charter also, on
its face, purports to be granted in consideration of
the premises in the introductory recitals. Now,
among these recitals it appears, that Dr. Wheelock
had founded a charity school at his own expense, on
his own estate; that divers contributions had been
made in the colonies, by others, for its support ; that
new contributions bad been made, and were making,
in England for this purpose, and were in the hands
of trustees appointed by Dr. Wheelock to act in his
behalf; that Dr. Wheelock had consented to have
the school established at such other place as the
trustees should select ; that offers had been made by
several of the governments in America, initing the
a 2 Bl. Com. 347. Finch'sLaw, 100. 10 Rep. 112.
Abridg. 136. Bull, N. P. 136.

1 Shep.

686

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

vj19.

D
iDartmoutil
College
V.

Woodward.

establishment of the school among them; that offers
of land had also been made by divers proprietors of
lands in the western parts of New.-Jampshire, if the
school should be established there ; that the trustees
had finally consented to' establish it in New-Hampshire ; and that Dr. Wheelock -represented that, to
effectuate the purposes of all parties, iin incorporation "wasnecessary. Can it be truly said .that these
recitals contain no legal consideration of benefit to
the crown, or of forbearance of benefit on the other
side ? Is there not an implied contract by Dr. Wheelock, if a charter is granted, that the school shall be
removed fiom his estate to New-Hampshire ? and
that he will relinquish all his control over the funds
collected, and to be collected, in England, under his
auspices, and subject to his authority ? that he will
yield up the management of his charity school -to
the trtstees of the college ? that he will ielinquish
all the offers made by other American governments,
and devote his patronage to this institution ? It will
scarcely be denied, that lie gave up the right any
longer to maintain the charity school already established on his own estate; and that the fids collected for its use, and subject to his management,
were yielded up by him as an endowment of the
college. The very language of the charter supposes him to be the legal owner of the funds of the
charity school, and, in virtue of this endowment, declares him the founder of the college. It matters
not whether the funds were great or small; Dr.
Wheelock had procured them by his own influence,
and they were under his control, to be applied to the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

687

relinsupport of his charity school ; and when he

1819.

quished this control he relinquished a right founded

Dartmouth

in property acquired by his labours.

Besides; Dr.

Wheelock impliedly agreed to devote his future services to the college, when erected, by becoming president. thereof at a period when sacrifices must necessnriiy be made to 'accomplish the great design in view.
If, indeed, a pepper corn be, in the eye of the law,
of sufficient value to found a contract, as upon a valuable consideration, are these implied agreements,
and these relinquishlments of right and benefit, to be
deemed wholly worthless ? It has never been doubted,
that an agreement not to exercise a trade in a particular place was a sufficient consideration to sustain
a contract for the payment of money. A jbrti6ri,
the relinquishment of property which a person holds,
or controls the use of, as a trust, is a sufficient consideration ; for it is parting with a legal right. Even
a right of patronage (jus patronatus) is of great
value in intendment of law. Nobody doubts, that
an advowson is a valuable hereditament; ann yet,
in fact, it is but a mere trust, or right of nomination
to a benefice, which cannot be legally sold to the
intended incumbent/a
In respect to Dr. Wheelock, then, if a Vonsideration be necessary to support the charter as a contract,
it is to be found in the implied stipulations on his
part in the charter itself. He relinquished valuable
rights, and undertook a laborious office in consideration of the grant of the incorporation.
a 2 l. Com. 22. note by Christian.

coVege.
Woodward;

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

rhis is not all. A charter may be granted up&n
Dartmouth anl executory, as well as an executed or present consideration. When it-is granted to persons Who have
College
V.
, not made application for it, until their acceptance
Woodward.
thereof, the grant is yet infieri. Upon the accept;
ance there is an implied contract on the part of the
grantees, in consideration of the charter, that they
will perfornW the duties, and exercise the authorities
conferred by it. This was the doctrine asserted by
the late learned Mr. Justice Buller, in a modern
case.a .He there said, "I do not know how to reason
on this point better than in the manner urged by one
of the relator's counsel, who considered the grant of
incorporation to be a compact between the crown,
and a certain number of the subjects, the latter of
whom undertake, in consideration of the privileges
which are bestowed, to exert themselves for the good
government of the place," (i. e. the place incorporated.) It will not be pretended, .that if a charter be
granted for a bank, and the stockholders pay in their
oivn funds, the charter is to be deemed a grant without consideration, and, therefore, revocable at the
pleasure of the grantor. Yet here, the funds are to
be managed, and the services performed exclusively
for the use and benefit of the stockholders themselves.
And where the grantees are mere trustees to perform
services without reward, exclusively for the benefit of
others, for public charity, can it be reasonably argued,
that these services are less valuable to the government, than if performed for the private emolument of
1819.

a Rex v. Passmore, 3 T. R. 199. 239. 246

OF THE UNITED' STATES.

the trustees themselves?

In respect then to the trus-

1689
" i8i9.

tees also, there was a valuable consideration for the

Dartmouth

charter, the consideration of services agreed to be

College

rendered by them in execution of a charity, from Woovwar.

which they could receive no private remuneration.
The're is yet another view of this part of the case,
which deserves the most weighty consideration. The
corporation was expressly created for the purpose of
distributing in perpetuity the charitable donations of
private benefactors. By the terms of the charter,
the trusteeso and their successors, intheir corporate
capacity, -were to receive, hold, and exclusively
manage, all the funds so contributed. The
'crown)
then, upon the face of the charter, pledged its faith
that the donations of private benefactors should be
perpetually devoted to their original purposes, without any interference on its own part, and should be
forever administered by the trustees of the corporation,' unless its corporate franchises should be taken
away by due process of law. From the very nature
of the case, therefore, there was an implied contract
on the part of the crown with every benefactor, that
if he would give his money, it should'be deemed a
charity protected by the charter, and be-administered
by the corporation according to the general law of
the land. As soon, then, as a donation was-made to
the corporation, there was an implied contract springing up, and founded on a valuable consideration, that
thecrownwould not revoke, or alter the charter, or
change its admin istration, without the cinsent of the
contract
corporation. There was also an implied.
between the. corporation itaelf, and every bengfactor
VL., IV,.7

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

690

upon a like consideration, that it would administer
bounty according to the terms, and for the objects
Dartmouth
stipulated in the charter.
College
In every yiew of the case, if a consideration w2re
Woodward.
1819.

Shis

necessary (which I utterly deny) to make the charter
a vajid contract, a valuable -consideration did exist,
as to the founder, the trustees,, and the benefactors.
And upon'the soundest legal principles, the charter.
may be properly deemed, according to the various
aspects, in which it is viewed, as a several, contract
with each of these parties, in virtu'e of thufoundation,
or fite endowment of the college, or the acceptance
of the charter, or the donations to tie charity.
And here we might pause: but there is yet remaining another view of the subjec(, which cannot consistently be passed ovor Without notice. It seem to
be assumed by the argument of the defendant's counsel, that there is no contract whatsoever, in virtue of
the charter, between tile crown and the corporation
itself. But it deserves consideration, whether this assumption can be sustained upon a solid foundation.
If this had been a new charter granted to an existing corporation, or a grant of lands to an existing corporation, there could not have been a doubt, that th
grant would have been an executed contract with
the corporatioh ; as much so, as if it had been -to
any private person. But it is supposed, that as this
corporation was not then in existence, but was created and its franchises bestowed, unolatu, the charter cannot be construed acontract, because, there was
no person in rerum natura, with whom. it might be
made, Is this, however, a just and. legal view of the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

subject ? If the corporation had no existence so as
to become a contracting party, neither had it for.tbe Dtmouth
ptirpose of receivinga grant of the franchises. The College
V.
truthis, that there may be a priority of operation Woodward,
of things in the same grant ; and the law distinguishes and gives gich priority, wherever.it is
necessary to effectuate the objects of the grant." From
the nature of things, the artificial person called a corporation, must be created before it can be capable of
taking any thing. When, therefore, a chafter is
granted, and it brings the corporation into existence
without any act of the natural persons who compose
it, and gives such -corporation any privileges, franchises, or property, the law deems the corporation.to
be first brought into existence, and then clothes it
with the granted liberties and property. When, on
the other hand, the corporation. is to be brought into
existence by some future acts of 4he corporators, the
franchises remain in abeyance, until such acts are
done, and when the corporation is brought into life,
the franchises instantaneously attach to it. There
may- be, in intendment of law, a priority of time, even
in an instant, for this purpose.b And if -the corporation have an existence before the grant of its other
franchises attaches, what more'difficulty is there in
deeming the grant of these franchises a contract with
it, than if granted by another instrument at a subse.-:
quent period ? It behooves those also, who hold, that
a grant to a corporation, nbt then in eistence, is, in'-,.

a Case of Sutton's Hospital, 10 Co. 23. Buckland v. Fowcher,

cited 10 Co. 27, 28. ; and recognized in Attorney General v.
Bowyer, 3 Ves. jun. 714. 726, 727. S. P. Highmore on Mortm.
,100,&e.

692

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

capable of being deemed a contract on that account,
consider, whether they do not at the same time
College establish, that the grant itself, is a nullity for precisely
V.
Woodward. the same reason. Yet such a doctrine would strike
us all as pregnant. with absurdity, since it would
prove that an act of incorporation could never confer
any authprities, or rights, or property, on the corporation it created. It may be admitted,'that two paities are necessary to form a perfect contract ; but it
is denied that it is necessary, that the assent of both
.parties must be at the same time. If the legislature
were voluntarily to grant land in fee to the first child of
A. to be hereafter born ; as soon as such child should be
born, the estate would vest in it. Would it be contended, that such grant, when it took effect, was revocable, and not an executed contract, upon the acceptance of the estate2 The same question might
be asked in a case of: a gratuitous grant by the king
or the legislature to A. for life, and afterwards to the
heirs of B., who is then living. Take the case of a
bank, incorporated for a limited period, upon the express condition that it shall pay- out of its corporate
funds a certain sum, as the consideration for the harter, and after the corporation is organized a payment
duly made of the sum out of the corporate funds;
will it be contended, that there is not a subsisting
contract between the government and the corporation, by the matters thus arising expostfacto; that the
charter shall not be revoked during %thestipulated,
period ? Suppose. an act declaring- that al1 persons,
who should thereafter pay into the public treasury a
stipulated sum, should be tenants in common of cer1819.

-

Dartmouth
tto

OF THE UNITED STATES.

693

iain lands belonging to the State in certain propor1819.
tions; if a person afterwards born, pays the stipuDartmouth
lated sum into the treasury, is it less a contract with College
him, than it woul be with a person in esse at the time Woodward.
the act passed ? We must admit that there may be
future springing contracts in respect to persons not
now in esse, or we shall involve ourselves in inextricable difficulties. And if there maybe in respect to
natural persons, why not also in respect to artificial
persons, created by the law, for the very purpose of
being clothed with corporate powers ? I am unable
to distinguish between the case of a grant of land
or of franchises to an existing corporation, and a
like grant to a corporation brought into life for the
very purpose of receiving the grant. As soon as it
is in esse, and the franchises and property become
vested and executed in it, the grant is jdst as much
an executed contract, as if its prior existence had been
establishel for a century.
Supposing, however, that in eithef of the views
which have been suggested, the charter of Dartmouth
College is to be deemed a contract, we are yet met
with sieveral objections of another nature.
It is, in the first place, contended, that it is not a
contract within the prohibitory clause of the constitution, because that cl'ause was never intended to apply to mere contracts of civil institution, such as the
contract of mariage, or to grants of power to State
officers, or. to contracts relative to their offices, or to
grants of trust to be exercised for purposes merely
public, where the grantees take no beneficial interest.
It is admitted, that the State legislatures haveL

69,1,
1819.

CASES IN TIIE.SUPREME COURT'

power to enlarg'e, repeal, and linrit the authorities oi

public officers in their official capacities, in all cases,
where the constitutions of the States respectively do
V.
WVoodsvard. not prohibit them ; and 'this, among others, for the
very reason, that there is no express or implied contract, that they shall. always, during their continuance in office, exercise. such authorities. They are
to eyercise them only during the good pleasure of
the legislature, But when the legislature makes a
contract with 'a public officer, as in the case of a stipulated salary for his services, during a limited period,
this, during the limited period, is just as riucb a contfact, within the purview of the constitutional prohibition, as a like contract would be between two private citizens.* Will it be contended, that the legislature of a State can diminish the salary of a judge
holding his office during good behaviour ?' Such an
authority has never yet been asserted to our knowledge. It may also be admitted,,that corporations for
mere public government, such as towns, cities and
counties, may. in many respects be subject to legislative control. But it will hardly be contended, that
even in respect to such corporations, the legislative
power is so transcqndant, that it .may at its will take
away the private property of the corporation, or
change the uses of its private funds acquired under
the public faith. Can the legislature confiscate to
'its own use, the private funs 'which a municipal corporation holds under its charter, without any de-i
fault or consent of the corporators? If a municipal
corporation be capable of holding devises and legaties to charitable uses (as many, municipal corporaDartmouth

College

695

OF' THE UNITED STATES.

,

tibns are,) does the legislature, under our forms of
limited governnent,. possess the authority to seize

1819.

-

I,Dartmouth

upon those funds, and appcopriate'them to other uses,, colege
at its own arbitrary pleasure, against the will of the Woodward.
donors and donees ?" From the very nature of our
governments, the public faith is pledged the other
way; and that pledge constitutes a valid compact;

and that compact is subject only to judicial inquiry,
construction, and abrogation. This Court have al.ready had occasion, in other causes, to express their
opinion on this subject; and there is notthe slightest
inclination to retract it.a

As to the case of the contract of marriage, which
the argument supposes not to be within the reach of
the prohibitory clause, because it is matter of civil
institution, I profess not to feel the weight of the reason assigned for the exception. In a legal sense, all
contracts, recognized as valid in any country, may
be properly said to be matters of civil :institution,

since they obtain their obligation and construction
jure loci contractus. Titles to land, constitutifig part
of the public domain, acquired by grants under the
provisions of existing laws by private persons, are
certainly contracts of civil institution. Yet no
one ever supposed, thit when 4cqpired bona .ide,
they were not beyond the reach of legislative revocation. And so, certainly, is the. established doctrine
.of this Court." A general law regulating divorces
from the contract of marriage, like a law regulating
a Terret v. Taylor, 9 Cranch, 43.
9 Cranch, 292.,
bilb.

Town of PaWlet.v. Clark,

696
1819.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

temedies in other cases, of breaches of contracts, is

1not

necessarily a law impairing the obligationof such
a contract.a It may be the only effectual mode of
Woodward. enforcing the obligations of the contract on both
sides. A law punishing a breach of a contract, by
imposing a forfeiture of the rights acquired Under it,
or dissolving it because the mutual obligations were
no longer observed, is in no correct sense a law impairing the obligations of the contract. Could a law,
compelling a specific performance, by giving a new
remedy, be justly deemed an excess of legislative
power? Thus far the contract of marriage has
'.been considered With teference to general laws regulating divorces upon breaches of that contract.
But if the argument means to assert, that the legislative power to dissolve such a -contract, without any
breach on either side, against the wishes of the parties, and without any judicial inquiry to ascertain a
breach, I certainly am not prepared to admit such a
power, or that its 'exorcise would not entrench upon
the prohibition of the constitution. If Under the
faith of existing laws a contract of marriage be duly
solemnized, or a marriage settlement be made, (and
marriage is always in law a valuable consideration
for a contract,) it is not easy to perceive why a dissolution of its obligations, without any default or assent of the parties, mpy not as well fall within the
prohibition, as any other contract for a valuable consideration. A man has just as good a right to hig
wife, as to the property acquired under a marriage'
Dartmouth
College
V.

See Holmes v. Lansing, 3 Johns. Cas. 73.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

697

1819.
contract. He has a legal right to, her society and
her fortune; and to devest such right without his deDartmouth
fault, and against his will, would be as flagrant a vio- College
lation of the principles of justice, as the confiscation Wv.war.
of his own estate. I leave this case, however, to be
settled, when it shall arise. I have gone into it, because it was urged with great earnestness upon us,
and required a reply. It is sufficient now to.say, ihat
as at present advised, the argument, derived from
this source, does not press my mind with' any new
and insurmountable difficulty.
In respect also to grants and contracts, it would
be far too narrow a construction of the constitution, to
limit the prohibitory clause to such only where the
parties take for their own private benefit. A grant
to a private trustee 'for the benefit of a particular cestui que trust, or for any special, private or public
charity, cannot be the less a contract because the
trustee takes nothing for his own benefit. A grant
of the next presentation to a church is still a contract, although it limit the grantee to a mere right of
nomination or patronage.a The fallacy of the argument consists in assuming the very ground in controversy. It is not admitted, that a contract with a trustee is in its own nature revocable, whether it be for
special or general purposes, for public charity or payticular beneficence. A private donation, vested in a
trustee for objdcts of a general nature, does not thereby become a public trust, which-the government may,
at its pleasure, take from the trustee, and administer
a. B1 Com.
Vos. IV.

8

698 i81i.
Dartmouth

College
V.
Woodward.

CASES IN- THE SUPREME COURT

in its own way. The truth is, that the government
has no power to revoke a grant, even qf its own
fuids, whengiven to a private person, or a corporation for special uses. it cannot recal its own endowments granted to any hospital, or college, or city, or
towo, for the use of such corporations. The only
authority remaining to the goverment is judicial, to
ascertain the validity of the grant, to enforce its proper uses, to suppress frauds, and, if the uses are
charitable, to secure their regulqr administration
through the. means of equitable tribunals, in cases
where there would otherwise be a failur6 of justice.'
Another objection growing out of, and. connected
with that which we have 'been conside'ring, is, that
no grants are within the constitutional prohibition,
except such as respect property in the strict sense
of the term; that is to say, beneficial ipterests in
lands, tenemnts, arid hereditaments, &e. &c. which
may be sold by the grantees for their own benefit:
and that grants of franchises, immunities, and authorities not valuable to the parties, as property, are
excluded from its purview. No authority has been
cited to sustain this distinction, and no reason is perceiVed to justify its adoption. 'There ir,many rights,
franchises, and authorities.whiqh are valuable in contemplation of law, where no beneficial interest caa
accrue to the possessor. A grant of the next pre.sentation to a church, limited to the grantee alone,
has been already mentioned. A'power of appoint'
ment, reserved in a marriage settlementi either" to a
party or a stranger, to appoint uses ia favour, of
thi di perso n s, without compensation', is another in'

OP THE, UNITED STATES.

.699

stance. A grant of lands to a tristee'to raise portions or pay debts, is, in law, a valuable grant, and

Datouth

conveys a legal estate. Even a power given by will

Colege

1s0.

to executors to ell an estate for payment of debts is, Woodward.
by the better opinions and authority, coupled with a
trust,.-and capable of surviv'orship.a Many. dignities
aid offices, existing at common law; are merely honorary, and without prifit, and sometimes ire'onerQus. Yet a grant of them has never been supposed
the iss a contract on that account. In respect to
franchises, whether corporate or-not, which include
a pernancy of profits, such as a right of fisheiy, or
to hold a - ferry,, a market, or a fair or to erect a
turnpike, bank, or bridge, there is no pretence to say
that grants of them are not within the constitution.
Yetthey may, .in point of fact, be of no exchangeable
value to the owners. They may be worthless in the
market. The truth, however, is, that all incorporeal
hereditaments, whether they be immunities, dignities,
offices, or franchises, or other rights, are deemed valuable in law. The owners have a legal estate and
property in them, and legal remedies to support and
recover them, in case of any injury, obstrtiction or
disseizin of them. Whenever they are the subjects
of a contract or grant, they are just as much within
the reach of the constitution as any other grant.
a 'Co. Lit. 113. a. Harg. and Butler's note 2. Sugden on
Powers, 140. Jackson v. Jansen, 6 Johns. Rep. 73. Franklin
v. Osgood, 2 Johns. Cas. 1. S. C. 14 Johns. Rep. 527. Zebach
v. Smith, 3 Binn. Rep*%9. Lessee of Moody v. Vandyke, 4
Binn. 7.' 31. Attorney Generalv. Gleg, 1 Atk. 356. 1 Hoc,
A br; 586.. (Gwillim edit.)

700
1819.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
Nor is there any solid reason Why a contract for the

exercise of a mere authority should not- be just as
College much guarded as a.-contract for the use and dominiln
Va. of property. Mere naked powers, which are to be
exercised for the exclusive benefit of the grantor,
are revocable by him for that very reason. But it is
otherwise where a power is to be exercised in aid of
a right vested in the grantee. We all know that a
power of attorney, forming a part of a s~eirity upon
the assignment of a chose inaction, is not revocable by
-the grantor. For it then sounds in contract, and is
coupled with an interest.4 So if an estate be conveyed
in trust for the granior, the estate"is irrevocable in
the grantee, although he can take- no beneficial, in,terest for himself. Many of the best settled estates
stand upon conveyances of this nature; and there
can be no doubt that such grants are contracts within the prohibition in question.
In respect to corporatefranchises,they are, properly speaking, legal estates vested in the corporation
itself as soon as it is in esse. They are not .mere
naked powers granted to the corporation ; but powers
coupled with an interest. The property of the corporation vests upon the possession of its franchises;
and whatever may be thought as tothe corporators, it
cannot, be denied, that the corporation itself has a
legal. interest in them. -Itmay sue and be sued for.
them. Nay, more, this very right i one of its. or-

Dartmouth

a Walsh v. Whitcomb, 2 Esp. 565. Bergen v. Bennett, J
Caines' Cases in Jrror, 1. 15. Raymond v. Squire, 11 Johns.
Rep. 4t.

OF THE UNITED STATES

dinary franchises.

"It

is likewise a franchise,"
says Mr. Justice Blackstone, " for a number of per5ons to be incorporated and subsist as a body politic,
with power to maintain perpetual succession, and do
other corporate acts; and each individual member of
such corporation is also said to have a franchise or
freedom.""a In order to get rid of the legal difficulty
" of these franchises being considered as valuable here,ditaments or property, the counsel for' the defendant
are driven to contend, that the corporators or trustees
arc mere agents of the corporation, in whom no beneficial interest subsists; and so nothing but a naked
power is touched by removing them from the trust;
and then to hold the corporation itself a mere ideal
being, capable indeed of holding property or franchises, but having no interest in them which ain be
the subject of contract. Neither of these positions
is admissible. The former has been already sufficiently considered, and the latter 'may be disposed
of in a few 'words. The corporators are not mere
agents, but have vested rights in their character, as,
corporators. The right to be a freeman of,a corporation is a valuable temporal right. It is a right of
voting and acting in the corporate concerns, which
'the law recognizes and enforces, and for a violation
of which it provides a remedy. It is founded on the
same basis as the right of voting'in public elections;
it is as sacred a right ; and whatever might have been
the prevalence of former doubts, since the time of
Lord Holt, such a right has always been deemed a
valuable franchise br privilege.'
a 2 B1. Com. 31. 1 Kyd on Corp. 14. 16.
b Ashbyv. White, T Ld. Raym. 938. , I Kyd on Corp. 16.

'701
1819.
DJrtwou
Dartmouth
College
V.

Woodwara.

702
1819.
Dartmouth

College
V.

Woodward.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

This reasoning, which has been thus far urged,
applies with full force to the. case of Dartmouth College. The franchises granted by the charter were
vested in the trustees in their corporate character.
The lands and other property, subsequently acqui red,
were held by them in the same manner. They were
the private demesnes of the corporation, held by it,
not-, as the argument supposes, for the use and benefit of the people of New-Hampshire, but, as the
charter itself declares, !1for the. use of Dartmouth
College." There were not, and in the nature of
things could not be, any other'cestuique use entitled to
claim those funds. They wyere indeed to be devoted
to the promotion of piety and learning, not at large,
but ir' that qollege, and the establishments connected
with it; and' the mode in whii-h the charity was to
be applied, and the. objects of it, were left. solely to
the trustees, who were -the legal governors and administrators of it. No particular person in NewHampshire possessed a vested right in the bounty;
nor could he force himself upon the trustees as a proper object. The legislature itself could not deprive
the trustees of the corporate funds, or annul their
discretion in the application of them, or distribute
them among its own favourites. Could the legislature of New-Hampshire have seized the land given
by the State of Vermont to the corporation, and appropriated it to uses distinct from those intended
by the charity, against the will of the trustees ?' This
question cannot be answered in the affirmative, until
it is estalished, that the legislature may lawfully
take the property of A. and give it to B. ; and if it

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1819.
could not take away or restrain the corporatefunds,
Darimouthi
I
•
the
restrain
away.or
take
it
can
upon i4hat pretence
College
'orporate franchises? Witlout the franchises, the
Woodward.
funds could not be used for corporate purposes;
but without fhe funds, the possession of the franchises might still be of inestimable- value to the college and to the'cause of religion and learning.
Thus far, the rights of the corporation itself, in
respect to its property and franchises, have been more
immediately considered. But there are other rights
and privileges belonging to the trustees collectively,
and severally, which are deserving of notice. ' They
are entrusted with the exclusive power to manage the
-funds, to choose the officers, and to regulate the corporate coiicerns, according to their own discretion.
*Thejus palronat-asis vested in them. The visitatcrial power, in its most enlarged extent, also belongs to
them. When this power devolves upon the founder
of a charity, it is an hereditament, descendible in perpetuity to his heirs, qnd in default of heirs, it escheats
a valuable right founded
to the government.a . It i's
in property, as much so as the right of patronage in
any other case. It is a right which partakes. of a
judicial nature. May not the founder as justly contract for the possession of this right in return for his
endowment, as for any other equivalent ? and, if insleid of holding it as an hereditament,'he assigns it
in perpetuity to the trustees of the corporation, is it
less a valuable hereditament in their hands? The
right is not merely a collective right in all the trus-

a Rei v. St. Catherine's Hall, 4 T. R. 2.33.

704

CASES IN, THE SUPREME COURT

tees; each of them also has a franchise in it. Lord
iHolt says, " it is agreeable to reason, and the rules of
Dartmouth
law, that a franchise should be vested in the corporaCollege
Woodward. tion aggregate, and yet the benefit redound to the
particular members, and be enjoyed by them in their
private capacities. Where the privilege of election
is used by particular persons, it is a particular right
vested in each particular man."a Each of the trustees had a right to vote in all elections. If obstructed in the exercise of it, the law furnished him with
an adequate. recompense in damages. If ousted unlawfully from his office, the law would, by a mandamus, compel a restoration.
It is attempted, however, to establish, that the
trustees have no interest in the corporate franchises,
because it is said, that they may be witnesses in a suit
brought-against'the corporaion. The case cited at
the bar certainly goes the length of asserting, that in
a suit brought against a charitable corporation for a
recompence for services performed for the corporation, the governors, constituting the corporation, (but
whether entrusted with itsfunds or not by the act of
incorporation does not appear) are. competent witnesses against the plaintiff.' But assuming this case
to have been rightly decided, (as to which upon the
authorities there may be room to doubt,) the corpo,1819.

a Ashby v. White, 2 Ld. Raym. 938. 95i.
xeral v. Dixie, 13 Fes. 519.

Attorney Ge-

b Weller v. The Governor of the Foundling Hospital, Peake's
X.P. Riep. 153..

OF THE UNITED STATES.

rators being technically parties to the record,a it does
not establish, that in a suit for the corporate propertyI
vested in the trustees in their corporate capacity, the
trustees are competent witnesses. At all events, it
does not establish, that in a suit for the corporate
franchises to be exercised by the trustees, or to enforce their visitatorial power, the trustees would be
competent witnesses. On a mandamus to'restore a
trustee to his corporate or visitatorial power, it will
not be contended, that the trustee is himselfa competent witness to establish his own rights, or the corporate rights. Yet why not, if the law deems.that a
trustee has no interest in the franchise ? The test
of interest assumed in the argument proves nothing
in this case. It is not enough to establish, that the
trustees are sometimes competent witnesses; it is necessary to show, that they are always so in respect to
the corporate franchises, and their own. It will not
be pretended, that in a suit for damages for obstruction in the exercise of his official powers, a trustee is
a disinterested witness. Such an obstruction is not
a damnum absque injuria. Each trustee has a vested right, and legal interest in his office, and it cannot
be'devested but by due course of law. The illustrati6n, therefore, lends no new force to the argument,
for it does not establish, that when their own rights
a Attorney General v. City of London, &c. 3 Bro. Ci. c.
171. S. C. I Ves. jun. 243. Burton v. Hinde, 5 T. R. 174.
Nason v. Thatcher, 7 Mass. R. 398. Phillips on Evid. 42. 52.
57. and notes. I Kyd on Corp. 304. &c. Highmore on Mortim.
514.
VOL., IV.

89

S705
iR19.
Dm
Dartmouth
College
V.
Woodward

"

706
1819.
Dartmouth

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

'ire in controversy, the trustees have no legal'interest
in their offices.

The principal objections having been -thus answerWoodward. ed satisfactorily, at least to my 'own mind, it remains
only to declare, that my opinion, after the most matuare
deliberation is, that the charter of Dartmouth College, granted in 1769, is a'contract within the purview of the constitutional prohibition.
I mio'ht now proceed to the discussion of the seThe charter
iCollege

of Dartmouth

cc

not dissolved
at the revolu.

tion.

estion;
conl qu

ut it is necessary previously to dis-

pose of a doctrine which has been very seriously
urgediet the bar, viz. that the charter of Dartmouth
College was dissolved at the revolution, and is, therefore, a mere nullity. A case before Lord. Thurlow
has been cited in support of this doctrine." The
principal question in.that case was, whether the corporation of William & Mary's College in Virginia,
(which- had received its charter from KingWilliam,
and Queen Mary,) should still be permitted to idminister the charity under Mr. Boyle's will., no interest
having passed to the college under the Will, but it
actihg as an agent or trustee under a decree in chancery, or whether a new scheme for the administration
of the charity should be laid. before the Court. Lord
Thurlow directed a new scheme, because the college
-belonging to an independent government, was no .longer within the reach of the Court.- And he very unnecessarily added, that he could not now consider the
eollege as a corporation, or as another report' states,
a Attorney General v.City of London, 3 Bro. Ch. C. 171.
S.' C.

1 Ves.jun. 243.

b I Ves.'jun. 243.-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

707

that he could not take notice of it as a corporation, it
1819.
"ot
not having proved its existence as a corporation at Dartmouth
Coltege
that
declare,
to
all. If, by this, Lord Thurlow meant
V.
all charters acquired in America from the crown, Woodward.
were destroyed by the revolution, his doctrine is not
lawv; anA if it had been true, it would equally apply
to all other grants from the crown, which would be
monstrous.. It is a principle of the common law,
which has been recognized as well in this, as in other
Courts, that the division of an empire, works no forfeiture of previously vested rights of property. And
this maxim is equally consonant with the common
sense of mankind, and the maxims of eternal justice.0
This objection, therefore, may be safely dismissed
without further comment.
The remaining inquiry is, whether the acts of the

The acts o-

legislature of New-Hampshire now in question, or sire in que
any of them, impair the obligations of the charter of hthetcharter
of Dartmout/
Dartmouth College. The attempt certainly is to Coege.
force upon the corporation a gew charter against the
will of the corporators. Nothing seems better settled at the common law, than the doctrine, that the
crown cannot force upon a private corporation a new
charter; or compel the old members
to give-up their

own franchises, or to admit new members into the
corporation.' Neither can the crown compel'a man
a Terrett v. Taylor, 9 Cranch, 43. 60. Kelly v. Harrison,
2 Johns. Cas. 29.. Jackson v. Lunn, 3 Johns. Cas. 109. Calvin's
case., 7 Co. 27.
b Rex v. Vice Chancellor of Cambridge, 3 Bur. 1656. Rex
v. Passmore, 3 T. R. 240. .1 Kd on Corp. 65. Rex v'. Larwood, Comb. 316.

708

4ASES IN THE SUPREME COURT'

to become a member of such corporation against biq
m19.
will." As little has it been supposed, that under our
"'
Darttmouth
Coltege limit.ed governments, the legislature possessed such'
V.
oodw*ard. transcendant authority. On one occasion, a very
able Court'held, that the State legislature had'no
authority to compel a person to become a member of
a mere private corporation created for the promotion
of a private enterprise, because every man had a right
to refuse a grant. On another occasion, the same
learned Court declared, that they were all satisfied,
that the rights legally vested in a corporation, cannot
be dontroled or destroyed by any subsequent statute,
unless a power for that purpose be reserved to the legislature in the act of incbwporation.c These princi-.
ples are so consonant with justice, sound policy, and
legal reasoning, that it is difficult to resist the im.pression of their perfect correctness. The application of them ,'however, do.s not, from our limited authority, properly belo'lig to the appellate jurisdiction
of this Court in this case.
A very summary examination of the acts of NewIHampshire will abundantly show, that in many materal respects they change the charter of Dartmouth
;College. The act Of the 27th of June, 1816, de-.
clares that the corporation known by the name of
the Trustees of Dartmouth College shall be called
the Trustees of Dartmouth University. That the
whole number of- trustees shall .4e twenty-one, a maa Rex . Dr. AskeW, 4 Bur. 2200.
6 Ellis v. Marshall, 2 Mfass. Rep. 269.
c Waleov.*Stetson,:2 Mass. Rep. 143.-146.

.

OF THE-UNITED STATES.

jority of whom shall form a quorum; that they .and .81%.
their successors shall hold, use, and enjoy forever, all .Dartmouth
the powers, authorities, rights, property, liberties , college
privileges, and immunities, heretofore held, &c. by Wdar
the trustees of Dartmouth 'College, except where
the act otherwise provides; that they shall also have
power to determine the tines and places of their
meetings and manner of notifying the same; to organize colleges in the university; to establish an institute, and elect fellows and members thereof; to
appoint and displace officers, and determioe their
duties and compensation; to delegate the pover of
supplying vacancies in any of the offices of the university for a limited term ; to pass ordinances for the
.government of the students; to 'prescribe the course
of education; and to arrange, invest, and employ the
-funds of the university. The act thn provides for
the appointment of a board of twenty-five overseers,
-fifteen of whom shall form a quorum, of whom five
are to be such ex officio, and the residue of the overseers, as well as the new trustees, ar to be appointed
by the governor and council. The board of overseers are, among other things, to have power, "to inspect and confirm, or.,disapprove and negative,' such
v6tes. and proceedings of the board of trustees as
shall'relate to the appointment and removal of president, professors and other permanent officers of the
university, and determine their salaries; to'the estar
blishment' of colleges and professorships, and the
erection of new college buildings." The act then
provides, that the president and professors shall be
nominated by the trustees, and appointed by the over-

710

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

seers, and shall be liable to be suspended and removed in the same manner; and that each of the two
Dartmouth
College boards of trustees and overseers shall have power to
Woodward. suspend and remove any member of their respective
boards. The supplementary act of the, 18th of December, 1816, declares that nine trustees shall form
1819.
Itmu

a quorum, and that six votes at least shall be neces sary for the passage of any act or resolution. The
act of the 26th of December, 1816, contains other
provisions, not very material to the question before us.
From this short analysis it is apparent, that, in substance, a new corporation is created including the old
corporators, with new powers, and subject to a new
control; or that the old corporation is ne fly organized and enlarged, and placed under an authority
hitherto unknown to it. The board of trust~es are
increased from twelve to twenty-one. The college
becomes a university. The property vested in the
old trustees is transferred to the 'new board of trustees in their corporate capacities. The quorum is no
longer seven, but nine. The old trustees have no
longer the sole right to perpetuate their succession by
electing other trustes, but tile nine new trustees are
in the first, instance to be appointed by the governor
and council, and the new board are then to elect
other trustees from time to time as vacancies occur.
The new board, too, have the power to suspend or
remove any member, so that a minority of the, old
board, co-operating with the new trustees, possess the
unlimited power to remove the majority of the old
board. The powers, too, of the corporation are vaTied. It has authority to organize new colleges in

OF THE UNITED STATES.

711

iajq.
"the university, and to establish an institute, and
elect fellows and members thereof." A board of Dartmpouth
overseers is created, (a board utterly unknown to the Cot1meg
old charter,) and is invested with a general supervi- Wdard.
sion and negative upon all the most important acts
and proceeding ,of the trustees. And to give complete effect to this new authority, instead 9 f the
right to appoint, the trustees are in future only to norein'ate, and the overseers are to approve, the president and professors of the university.
If these are not essential changes, impairing the
rights and authorities of the trustees, and vitally affecting the interests and organization of Dartmouth
College under its old charter, it is difficult - to conceive*
,what acts, short of an unconditional repeal of the
charter, could have that effect. If a grant of land
or franchises be made to A., in trust for special purposes, can the grant be r~voked, and a new grant
thereof be made to A., B., and C., in trust for the
same purposes, without violating the obligation of the
first grant ? If property be vested by grant in A. and
B., for the use of a college, or a hospital, of private
foundation, is not the obligation of that grant impaired when the estate.is taken from their exclusive
mlanagement, and vested in them in common with
ten other persons? If a power of appointment be
given to A. and B., is it no violation of their right
to annul .the appointment, unless it be assented to by
five other persons, and then confirmed by a distinct
body? If a bank, or insurance company, by the
terms of' its charter, be under the management of
directors, elected by the stockholders, would not the-

712

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

rights acquired by the charter be impaired if the legislature should take the right
of election from the
L
Dwrtm~th
College
stockholders, and appoint directors unconnected with
,V.
Woodwrd. the corporation? These questions carry their own
answers along with them. The common sense of
mankind will teach us, that all these cases would be
direct infringements of the legal obligations of the
grants to which they refer ;.and yet they are, with
no essential distinction, the same as the case now at
the bar.
In my judgment it is perfectly clear, that any act
of a legislature which takes away any powers or
franchises vested by its charter in a private corporation or. its corporate officers, or which restrains or
controls the legitimate exercise of them, or'transfers
them to other persons, without its assent, is a violation of the obligations of that charter. If the legislature mean to claim such. an authority, it must be
reserved in the grant. The charter of Dartmouth
College contains no 'such reservation.; and I am,
therefore, bound to declare, that the acts of the legislature of New-Hampshire, now in question, do
impair the obligations of that charter, and are, consequently, unconstitutional and void.
In pronouncing this judgment, it has not for one moment escaped me how delicate, difficult, and ungracious
is the task devolved upon us. The predicament in
which this Court stands in relation to the nation at
large, is full of perplexities and embarrassments. It is
called to decide on causes between citizens of different
States, between a State and its citizens, and between
different States, It stands, therefore, in the midst of
1919.

D*nu

713

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1819:
jealousies and rivalries of conflicting parties, with the
most momentous interests confided to its care. Un- Dartmouth
der such circumstances, it never can have a motive to CoIleg2
do more than its duty ; and, I trust, it will always be woodward;
found to possess firmness enough to do that.
Under these impressions I have pondered on the
case before us with the most anxious deliberation.
I entertain great respect for the legislature, whose
acts are in question. I entertain no less respect for
the enlightened tribunal whose decision we are called
upon to review. In the examination, I have endeavoured to keep my steps super antiquas vias of the
law, under the guidance bf authority and principle.
It is not for judges to listen to the voice of persuasive
eloquence or popular appeal. We have nothing to
do but to pronounce the law as we find it; and havingdone this, our justification must be left to the impartial judgment of our country.

Mr. Justice DUVALL dissented.a
a In the discussions which arose in France in 1786, upon the
new charter then recently granted to the French East India
Company, it seems to have been taken for granted by the lawyers on both sides, to whom the questions in controversy were
submitted by the Company, and by the merchants who considered themselves-injured by its establishment, that if the charter 'had regularly issued according to the forms of the French
law, it was irrevocable, unless forfeited for non-user or misn-

ser. The advocates, (M. M.

LACRETELLE

and

BLONDE,)

who

were consulted by the merchants of the kingdom opposed to
the establishment' of the Company, denied its legal existence,
on the ground' that the king had been surprised in his grant ;

that it was not yet perfected by the igsuing of letters patent,
VO.. IV.

90

714
1819.

'that
Dartmouth

Collcge
v*

CASES IN'THE SUPREME COURT

Upon the suggestion of the plaintiff's counsel,
the defendant had died since the last term, the

Court ordered the judgment to be entered nunc pro
tunc as of that term, as follows:

Woodward.

This cause came on to be heard on
the trans;cript-of the record, and was argued by counsel. And thereupon all and singular the premises
JUDGMENT.

being seen, and by the Court now here fully under-

stood, and mature deliberation being thereupon had,
nor duly registered by the parliaments ; and that it both might
and ought to be suppressed, as an illegal grant of exclusive privileges, contrary to the true principles of commercial philosophy.
On the other hand it was contended by the Company that
their grant was irrevocable ; that it was but a renewal and confirmation of the charter of the old Company which had been
suspended in 1769, in consequence of the immense losses of
capital sustained in the calamitous war of 1756, (but which suspension was at the time solemnly protested against by the parliament of Paris as illegal ;) that their new grant might still be
perfected by letters patent, which the faith of the king was
pledged to issue ; and that the privileges thus granted to them
were irrevocably vested as a right of property, of which they
could not be deprived by any authority in the kingdom. " En
effet, quand le roi accorde un privil4ge exclusif, ce privildge est
le prix d'une mise de fonds, dans un commerce hazardeux, dont
l'entreprise est jugde avantageuse a l'etat. Dela nait par. con.adquent un contrat synallagmatique, qui se forme entre le souverain et les actionnaii'es. DelI naft un droit de propridtd qui
,.devient indbranlable pour le souverainlui-mime." And of this
opinion were the advocates (Al. M. HARDOIN, GERBIER, and
DE BoNNE RF.Rs,) consulted by the company. See a Collection
of Tracts on the French East Company, Paris, 1788, in the Library of Congress.

OF.THE UNITED STATES.

715

1819.
it appears to this Court, that the said acts of the leof the twenty-seventh Dartmouth
gislature of New-Hampshire,
•
of June and of the eighteenth and twenty-sixth of College
V.
December, Anno Domini, 1816, in the record men- woodwwa
tioned, are repugnant to the constitution of the United States, and so not valid ; and, therefore, that the
said Superior Court of Judicature of the State of
New-Hampshire erred in rendering judgment on the
said special verdict in favour of the said plaintiffs;
and that the said Court ought to have rendered judgment thereon, that the said trustees recover against
the said Woodward, the amount of damages found
and assessed, in and by the verdict aforesaid, viz. the
sum of twenty thousand dollars: Whereupon it is
considered, ordered, and adjudged by this Court, now
here, that the aforesaid judgment of the said Superior Court of Judicature of the State of New-Hampshire be, and the same hereby is, reversed and annulled: And this Court proceeding to render such
judgment in the premises as the said Superior Court of
Judicature ought to have rendered, it is further considered by this Court, now here, that the said trustees of Dartmouth College do recover against the
said William Woodward the aforesaid sum of twenty thousand dollars, with costs of suit; and it is by
this Court, now here, further ordered, that a special
mandate do go from this Court to the said Superior
Court of Judicature to carry this judgment into execution.

