CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
'298
1819.
The
Estrella.

(PRIZE.)

The EST RELLA.-Ilernandez, Claimant.
The seal to the commission of a new government, not acknowledged
by the government of the United States, cannot be permitted to
prove itself; but the fact, that the vessel cruising under such commission is employed by such government, may be established by
other evidence, without proving the seal.
Where the privateer, cruising under such a commission, was lost, subsequent to the capture in question, the previous existence of the
commission on board was allowed to be proved by parol evidence.
Where restitution of captured property is claimed, upon the ground
that the force of the cruiser, making the capture has been augmented within the United States, by enlisting men, the burthen of
proving such enlistment is thrown upon the claimant; and that
fact being proved by him, it is incumbent upon the captors to show,
by proof, that the persons so enlisted were subjects or citizens of
the prince or state under whose flag the cruiser sails, transiently
within the United States, in order to bring the case within the proviso of the 2d section of the act of June 5th, 1794, c. 226. and of
the act of the 20th April, 1818, c. 83.
The right of adjudicating on all captures and questions of prize, exclusively belongs to the Courts of the captors' country : but, it is
an exception to the general rule, that where the captured vessel is
brought, or -voluntarily comes, infra preuidia of a neutral power,
that power has a right to inquire whether its own neutrality has
been violated by the cruiser which made the capture; and, if such
violation has been committed, is in duty bound to restore, to the
original owner, property captured by cruisers illegally equipped in
its ports.
No part of the act of the 5th of June, 1794, c. 226. is repealed, by
the act of the 3d of March, 1817, c. 58.; the act of 1794, c.226.
remained in force until the act of the 20th of April, 1818, c. 83.,
by which' all the provisions respecting our neutral relations were
embraced, and all former laws on the same subject were repealed.
In the absence of any act of Congress on the subject, the Couits of
the United States would have authority, under the general law of

OF THE UNITED STATES.
nations, to decree restitution of property captured in violation
of their neutrality, under a commission issued within the United
States, or- under an armament, or augmentation of the armament,

or crew, of the capturing vessel, within the same.

APPEAL from the District Court of Louisiana.

This vessel and her cargo were libelled in the
District' Court for the Louisiana district, by the alleged former Spanish owner. The libel stated, that
he was owner of the schooner and cargo, which
sailed from Havanna, for the coast of Africa, on
the 23d of April, 1817; that, on the next day, she
was lawlessly and piratically captured, on the high
seas, and held as prize, by an armed schooner, called
the Constitution of Venezuela, and forcibly brought
within the jurisdiction of the United States, when
she was recaptured by the United States' ketch the
Surprize, and conducted to New-Orleans. That
the captors had no lawful commission from any sovereign state to commit hostilities at sea; but that
the said schooner and cargo, until their re-capture,
were forcibly withheld from the libellant, in open
violation and contempt of the law of nations. That
if they had such commission, the same was issued,
or delivered, Within the waters and jurisdiction of
the United States, with intent that the said vessel,
the Constitution, should be employed in the service
of Venezuela, to commit hostilities at sea against
the subjects of the king of Spain, with whom the
United States then were, and now are, at peace, in
violation of their laws, and of the laws of nations.
The libel further stated, that the Constitution had,

previously to her cruising, been fitted out, and armed,

299
1819.
The

Estrella.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
i819.
Te
Estrella.

or increased or augmented in- force, within the jirisdiction and waters of the United States,; and,
also, that she had been manned by sundry citizens
or residents of the United States, with the intent
that she should be employed to commit hostilities,
as aforesaid, in violation of the laws aforesaid. For
these causes the libellant prayed a-restitution to him
of the Estrella and cargo.
A claim was interposed by.J. F. Lamoureux, prizemaster of the Estrella, which stated, that the Constitution was duly commissioned by the Republic
of Venezuela, and authorized to capture all vessels
belonging to its enemies, under which authority she
had captured the Estrella, which, with her cargo, belonged to the enemies of the said republic. That,
before he could receive his prize commission, .the
Constitution upset, in a gale, and her commission
and papers, with the greater part of the crew, were
lost. The claimant further represented, that, as he
was carrying the Estrella into port, to have her
condeimned before a court of competent jurisdiction,
she was captured bythe United States' ketch Surprise,-and cofiducted to New-Orleans: and, therefore, claimed, that the Estrella and cargo might be'
adjudged to be restored to him.
It appears, from the transcript of the proceedings in this case, that the Estrella was also
libelled on the part of the United States, although
it is not stated for what cause-such libel was filed,
but the same was dismissed; from which decree
there was no appeal.

OP THE UNITED STATES.

It appeared in evidence, that'the Constitution had - a19.
The
•at
•
a commission from the government of Venezuela,
istreua.
the time the capture was made, which was issued
and delivered at Carthagena; but that the same
was
lost by the sinking of the privateer, immediately
after the capture. There was some contradictory
testimony. as to her having increased her armament
in the United States, and it was proved that she had
augmented the number of her crew in the port of
New-Orleans.
On the libel filed by the Spanish owner, decree
was made, that the claim of Lamoureux, the'prizemaster, be dismissed, with costs, and that the Estrella and cargo be delivered up and restored to the
libellant; from which sentence the cause was brought,
by appeal, to this Court.
Mr. C. J. Ingersoll, for the appellant and captor, zF'. 18th.
argued that the law of nations gave to the Courts
.of the captor's country the exclusive cognizance of
questions of prizes made under its authority ; and
that the only exceptions to this general rule were to
be found in the acts of Congress for preserving our
neutral relations. In the present case, there was no
sufficient evidence that the armament of the capturing vessel had been increased within the United
States, so as to give our Courts jurisdiction to restore the captured property, upon this ground; and
that the 2d section of the act of the 5th of June,
1794, c. 226., which prohibited the enlistment of
men within our territory, was impliedly repealed by
the act of March 3d, 1817,-c. 58., which contained

302

CASES IN THE SUPREME CQURT

no such prohibition, and which was the law in force
at the time this case occurred. But even if it were
The
Estrella. otherwise; the only proof of an increase of the crew
was the hearsay of interested witnesses; and supposing their testimony to establish the fact, still the
onus probandi was upon the claimant, to show that
the persons so enlisted were not citizens of Vene*zuela, transiently within, the United States, and so
coming within the proviso of the 2d section of the
act of 1794, c. 226. The existence of a commission, regularly issued by the government of Venezuela, within its own territory, which was on board
t4e privateer previous to the capture, was sufficiently
proved; and the court has already determined, ;,that
the same testimony which would be sufficient to prove
that a cruising vessel is in the service of an acknowledged state, is sufficient to prove that it is in the
service of a newly created government, like that of
Venezuela."
1819.

S

Mr. Sergeant, contra, argued, upon the facts, that
the right of the original Spanish owner to restitution was established by satisfactory proof, both of the
increase of the armament and crew of the privateer
within the United States. He insisted, that the act
of 1794, c. 226. was not repealed by that of 1817,
c. 68.; and that, even if it were, the right to restitution depended upon the general law of nations, and
treaties.' The claimant having proved the facts of
a The United States v. Palmer, 3 Wheat. 610. 635.
b I Wheat. 244. note c. 2 Sir L.Jenkins' Works, 727. 1b. 780

OF THE UNITED STATES..

an increase of the crew in New-Orleans, the onus
probandi of showing that
• the persons" enlisted were
citizens of Venezuela, transiently within the United
States, was thrown upon the captors. The commission, under which the capture was professedly
made, being that of a new government, not yet acknowledged by the United States, its commission
ought to have been produced, and the seal proved;
and if actually lost with the privateer, an exemplified copy ought to have been obtained duly authenticated by the proper officers of that government.
All the circumstances of the case combined to show
that this was not a capture in the regular exercise

808
1819.
The

Estrelhu

of the rights of war ; but a piratical seizure, in breach
of our neutrality, aggravated by an intention to violate the revenue laws, which was evinced by the fact
of the vessel having been found hovering on the
coast of Louisiana, instead of being conducted to
the ports of Venezuela for adjudication.
Mr. Justice LIVINGSTON delivered the opinion of
the Court.
The first allegation of the Spanish owner is, that
the Constitution had no lawful commission from
any sovereign state to commit hostilities at sea ; and
he contends, that the commission in the present
case, if any there was, being that of a government
not acknowledged by the United, States, ought to
have been produced, and its seal proved ; or that if
the vessel carrying it had been, lost, yet an exemplification of it ought to have been obtained from
the proper department of the state which issued it.

March 2d-.

&A

3ASS IN THE SUPREME eOURT

1s19.

The Court is satisfied with the proof'which has

'
The
Zstrella.

been made, of the Constitution having had a cornmission at the time of making the capture, and
that such commission was granted by the government of Venezuela; and also, that the same was lost
with the privateer herself, a very short time after
the prize crew took possession of the Estrella. The
fact of the sinking of the Constitution is not disputed ; and that she had, at the time she went down, a
commission on board, is also fully made out, which
commission there is no reason to believe was any
other than the one which the Collector of NewOrleans says was on board when she arrived in that
port from Carthagena. This was some time in the
month of October, in the year 1816: Mr. Chew
then saw the commission, and describes it as a very
regular one from the Venezuelan Republic, signed,
as others were, by Bolivar. Although the Court, in
another case, has said, that the seal of a government unacknowledged cannot be permitted to prove
itself; it has, in the same case said, that the fact of a
vessel being so employed may be established without proving the seal.a

But if the Constitution had

a commission on board, itis next alleged, that the
same was issued or delivered within the waters of
the United States, with intent that she should be
employed in the service of Venezuela, to commit
hostilities, at sea, against the subjects of the king of
Spain, with whom the United States were at peace.
This allegation is not supported by any evidence;
a The United States v. Palmer, 3 fl7eat. 63i.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1819.
on the contrary, the same witnesses who declare that
Thd
the Constitution was a commissioned vessel, and
whose testimony has already been adverted to, esta- Estrella
blish, beyond controversy, that the same was obtained abroad, and not issued or delivered within the
United States.
The libel next alleges, that the Constitition, previous to her last cruise, had been fitted out and
armed, or that her force had been increased or augmented, within the jurisdiction and waters of the
United States, and also that she had there been
manned by sundry citizens or residents of the United
States with the same intent.
Whatever doubt there may be as to the augmentation of the armament of the Constitution within
the United States, the Court is satisfied that a very
considerable addition was made to her crew, at
New-Orleans, after her arrival at that port; one of
the custom house officers declares, that, at that, time,
she had only from twenty to twenty-five men. Another of these officers, who went on board4 on her
first arrival, states the number of her crew at about
twenty; and a witness by the name of Guzman,
totally unconnemcted with this transaction, mentionsby name two persons who entered on board while
she was lying there., Several of the origiwal crew
of the Estrella have also been examined to this point,
who state, that after the capture, they had many
conversations with the officers and seamen, who
composed the prize crew, by whom they were in-'
formed that the Constitution, when she left Carthagena, had but few hands on board; that at NewVoI. IV.

39

306
1819.
T

Estrella.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Orleansshe shipped almost the whole of her crew,,
which at the time of the Estrella's capture, amounted
to sixty or seventy men. This species of testimony,
has been objected to, as being hearsay, and proceeding from a source entitled to no great credit: al.though there may be something in this objection, it
is no reason for rejecting the evidence altogether.
If the testimony be hearsay, it must be' recollected
that..the declarations proceeded from persons very
much interested in giving a different representation
of the transaction; and as to the witnesses themselves, although they formed a part of the Estrella's
crew, and may have felt some little interest in the
question, they were the only persons who could give
any account of the armament or crew of the Constitution, at the time of her making the capture. It
may be also remarked, that the testimony of these
men is in this respect corroborated by that of other
witnesses, who are liable, to no objection, and that
their deplarations, if untrue, might have been disproved by the claimant, by Showing where and when
the crew of the Constitution had been entered. But
if any of the crew of theConstitution wereenlisted or
entered within the jurisdiction of the United States,
they may, it' is said, have been citizens or subjects of
the republic of Venezuela, who were transiently in
the United States at the time of her arrival, and had,'
therefore, a right, within one of the provi oes of the
second section of the,act of Congress, of the 7th of
June, 1794, c. 226. to enlist or enter themselves on.
board of.her; and it is insisted, that the libellant
should have'shown that they were not persons of this

OF THE UNITED STATES.

307

description. The Court is not of this opinion. On
the libellant, in the first instance, lay the onus of

i~ls.
The

showing that the crew of the Constitution, had been

Estrela.

increased within the United States; having done
this, it became incumbent on the captors, if they
wanted to establish their innocence, to show, as was
in their power, if the fact was so, that they had
done nothing contrary to law, by bringing their case
within the proviso that has been mentioned.
The allegation, then, in the libel being made out,
that the Constitution, being a privateer commissioned by the:republic of Venezuela, was manned
within the United. States, previous to the cruise on
which she captured the Estrella, by sundry citizens
or residents of the United States ; it remains to see
whether the libellant has not made out a case for restitution.
It has been attempted, but without. success, to distinguish this case in principle from several which
have'already beendecided in this Court. We have
been told, as heretofore, that to the courts of the nation to which the captor belongs,-and from which his
commission issues, exclusively appertains the right
of adjudicating on all captures and questions of
prize. This is not denied; nor has the Court ever
felt any disposition to intrench on this rule•; but, on
the contrary, whenever an occasion;has occurred, as
in the case of the Invincible," 'it has been governed by
it. Not only is it arule well established by the customary and conventional law of nations, but it is
a 1 Whcat. Mae.

508

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

founded in good sense, and is' the only one which is
salutary and safe in practice. It secures to a belliThe
Estreila. gerent the independence to which every sovereign state
is entitled, and which would be somewhat abridged,
were he to condescend so far as to permit those who
bear his commission to appear befLre the tribunals of
any other country, and submit to their interpretation,
or control, the 'orders and instructions under which
they have acted. It ensures, also, not only to the
belligerent himself, but to the world at large, a great
degree of caution and responsibility, on the par[ of the.
agents whom he appoints; who not only give security
to him for their good behaviour, but will sometimes
be checked in a lawless career, by the consideration
that their conduct is to.be investigated by the Courts
of their own nation, and under the very eye of the
sovereign, under whose sanction they are committing
hostilities. , In this way, also, is a foundation laid
for a claim by other nations, of an indemnity against
the belligerent, for the injuries which their subjects
may sustain, -by the operation of any unjust or improper rules, which he may think proper to prescribe
for those who act under his authority. But general,
and firmly established as this rule is, it is not more
so than some of the exceptionis which have grown
out of it. A neutral nation, which knows its duty,
will not interfere between belligerents, so as to
obstruct them. in the exercise of their undoubted right to judge, through the medium of their
own Courts, of the validity of every capt e made
-under their respective 'commissions, and toidedide on every question of prize law, which may
1819.

OF THE UNITED STATES

309

arise in the progress of such discussion. But it is no
1819.
departure from this obligation, if, in a case in which
The
a captured vessel be brought, or voluntarily comes, Estrella.
infra prarsidia,the neutral nation extends its examination so far as to ascertain whether a trespass has
been committed on its own neutrality by the vessel
which has made the capture. So long as a nation
does not interfere in the war, but professes an exact. impartiality toward both parties, it is its duty, as
well as right, 'and its safety, good faith, and honour
demand of it, to be vigilant in preventing its neutrality from being abused, for the purposes of hostilitj'
against either of them. * This may be done, not only
by guarding, in the first instance, as far as it can,
against all warlike preparations and equipments in
its'own waters, but, also, by restoring to the original owner such property as has been wrested from
him, by vessels which have been thus illegally fitted
out. In the performance of this duty, all the belligerents must be supposed to have an equal interest,
and a disregard, or neglect of it, would inevitably
expose a neutral nation to the charge of insincerity,
and to the just dissatisfaction and complaints of the
belligerent, the property of whose subjects "should
not, under such circumstances, be restored.
The. United States, instead of opening their ports
to all the" contending parties, when at peace themselves, (as may be done, if not prevented by antecedent treaties,) have always thought it.
the wisest and
safest course, to interdict them all from fitting out, or.
furnishing vessels of war within. their limits, a#d to
punish those who may contribute to sUch equip-

310
1819.

Tao

The
Estrella.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

ments. To enforce a general and strict observance
of thisneutrality, on the part of our. own citizens,
and of others who reside among us, a law passed,
as early as the year 1794, making it penal, among
other things, for any one, within the jurisdiction of
the United States, to enlist in the service of any fo,
reign prince or state, as a, soldier, marine, or seaman,
on board of any vessel of war,* letter of marque, or
privateer., This law, it is supposed, was not in force
at the time when the crew of the Constitution was
increased at'New-Orleans, having been repealed, as
is alleged, by the act of the 3d of 1\larch, 1817, c. 58.
But this act contains no repealing clause of this, or
any other section of the former law; and having
made no provision on the sulject of enlistment, it
must have been the intention of the legislature to
leave in full 'force all those parts of the first law
which had undergone no alteration, in the one which
was then passing, and we therefore find no repeal of
the act in question, until the 20th of April, 1818,
when all the provisions respecting our neutral relations were embraced by one act,' and all former laws
on the same subject were repealed. But whether
the act of 1794, c. 226. were in force or not, would
make no difference'; for it did not in terms, contain,
nor did any of the others, which have, from time to
time, been passed, contain a provision for the restitution of property captured on the ocean, by Vessels
which might be thus illegally fitted out, or manned
in otfr ports. It is true, they recognize a right in, the
Courts 'of the United States to make restitution,
wheio these laws have been disregarded, and impart

OF. THE UNITED STATES.

to the Courts a power to punish those who are concerned in such violations. But in the absence of
every act of Congress in relation to this matter, the
Court would feel no difficulty in pronouncing the
conduct here complained of, an abuse of the neutrality of the United States ; and although, in such case,
the offender could not be punished, the former
owner would, nevertheless, be entitled to restitution.
Nor is our opinion confinet to the single act"of an
illegal enlistment of men, which is the only fact
proved in this case ; for we have no hesitation in saying, that for any of the other violations of our neutrality alleged in the libel, if they had been proved,
the Spanish owner would have been equally entitled
to restitution.
Sentence affirmed, with costs.

(PRACTICE.)

MILLER

(for. the use of the United States) v. NiCHOLLS.

Where a cause, is br6ught to this Court, by writ of error, or appeal,
from the highest Court of law or equity of a Statej under the 2sth.
section *of the Judiciary Act of 1789, C.20., upon the ground, that
the validity of a statute of the United States *as drawn in question,
and that the decision of the State Court was against its validity, 4c.
or that the validity bf a statute, of the. State was drawn.in question,
as Irepugnant to the constitution of the United States, and the 'de.cision was in favour of its validity; it must appear, from the record,
that the. act of Congress,.or the constitutionality of the State'law
was drawn into question.
But it is not required, that the record should, ia terms, state a mispon-

1819.
V.

