453

OF THE UNITED STATES;

Orr
(CHANCERY.)

V.

Hodgson-

ORR v. HODGSON etux. et al.
-Bill for rescinding a contract for the sale of lands, on the ground of
defect of title, dismissed with costs.
An alien may take an estate in lands by the act of the parties, as by
purchase ; but he cannot take by the act of the law,. as by descent.
Where a person dies, leaving issue, who are aliens, the latter are not
deemed his heirs in law ; but the estate descends to the next of kin
who have an inheritable blood, in'the same manner as if no such
alien issue were in existence.
The 6th article of the treaty of peace between the United States and
Great Britain, of 1783, completely protected the titles, of British
subjects to lands in the U. S. which would have been liable to forfeiture, by escheat, for the defect of alienage. That articlewas
not meant to be confined to confiscations jure belli.
The 9th article of the treaty between the U. S. and G. B., of 1794,
applies to the title of the parties, whatever it is, and gives it the same
legal validity as if the parties were citizens. It is not necessary
that they should show an actual possession or seizin, but only that
the title was in them at the time the treaty was made.
The 9th article of the treaty of 1794 did not mean to include any other
persons than such as were British subjects or citizens of the U. S.

from the Circuit Court for the District
of Columbia.
The appellant filed his bill in equity in the Court
below, stating, that, on the 10th day of January,
1816, he purchased of the defendants, William
Hoegson, and Portia, his wife, and John Hopkins,
and Cornelia, his wife, a tract of land called Archer's
Hope, situate, in the County of James' City, in the
St-ate of Virginia, for the sum of 5,000 dollars, and
gave his bond to the said I-Iodgson and Hopkins for
APPEAL

454
1819.

""Orr
V.
HfoJgson,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT.

the payment of the said purchase money.

That, at

the time of the purchase, the defendants affirmed to
'
n rg
t-o
h
the plaintif that they were seized in right of the

said Portia and Cornelia, of a good, sure, and indefeasible estate of inheritance, in fee simple, in the
said tract of land, and had full power and lawful
authority to convey the same, and, in consequence of
such affirmation, the plaintiff made the purchase, and
gave his bond, as aforesaid. And further stating,
that he had since discovered that the defendants had
no title to -the said lands, but that the title thereto
was either vested in the children of the Countess
Barziza, or that the Commonwealth of Virginia was
entitled to them by escheat. That Colonel Philip
Ludwell, a native of the said Commonwealth, being
seized in fee of the said lands, had. twq daughters,
Hannah and Lucy, born of the same mother, in Virginia. That, some years before the year 1767, he
removed with his family, including his said two
daughters, to England, where he died, in the year
1761, having, by his last will, devised all his estates
to' his said two daughters, and appointed as their
guardians, Peter Paradise, John Paradise of the city
of London, and William Dampier. That, Hannah,
one- of the -said daughters, married William Lee, a
native of Virginia, and died, leaving issue, two daughters the said defendants, Portia Hodgson and Cornelia Hopkins, who are citizens of Virginia, residing.
in the District of Columbia. ;That Lucy Ludwell,
the other daughter abovementioned, during her infancy, to wit, in May, 1769, at the city of London,
married the said John Paradise, a British subject. by

OF THE UNITED STATES.

14,55

1s19.
whom she had issue, a daughter, by the name of Lucy,
born in England, about the year 1770. That the
V.
said Lucy Paradise, daughter of the said John and
Hedgbon.
the
at
1787,
April,
of
4th
the
on
Lucy Paradise,
said city of London, married Count Barziza, a Venetian subject, by whom she had issue, a son, named
John, born in the city of Venice, on the 10th of August,
1796. That the said John Paradise, in the year
1787, came to Virginia with his wife, and returned
with her to England, in 1789, where he died, in
1796, having, by his last will, devised all his personal
estate, charged with some pecuniary legacies, to'his
wife, but making no disposition ofhis real estate,
,and. leaving no issue, but the Countess Barziza.
That the said Countess Barziza died intestate, in
Venice, on the 1st of August, 1800, leaving her said
sons, John and Philip, her only issue; and that neither her sons, nor herself, nor her husband, were
ever in the United States. That the said Count Barziza is also dead. Thai the said Lucy Paradise, after
the death of the said John Paradise, her husband,
treated the said lands.as her own, exercising acts of
ownership over the same, and, about the year 1805, rereturned to Virginia, where she died intestate, in 1814,
being in possession of said lands at her decease, and
leaving no issue but the two sons of Countess Barziza
above mentioned, who, at the time of her death, had
not become citizens or subjects of any other state or
power than Venice and Austria. That by marriage
articles, made before the marriage of John Paradise
and Lucy Ludwell, between the said John Paradise
ef the first part, the said Peter Paradise, his father,

456,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

of the second part, the said Lucy Ludwell of the
Or
third part, the said William Dampier of the fourth
part, and James Lee and Robert Carry of the fifth
V.
Hodgsn. part, reciting the said intended marriage, and that
1819.

the said,.Peer Paradise had agreed to pay his son
4,0006. sterling at the marriage, and that his executors should pay 4,0001. sterling more to Lee and
Carry upon the trusts therein after mentioned. And
that the said John Paradise, and Lucy, had agreed,
that all the estates of the said Lucy Ludwell, should
be settled as therein after mentioned, but that, by
reason of her infancy, no absolute settlement of the
same could then be made. It was witnessed, that in
consideration of the marriage, and for making provision for the said Lucy Lud well, and the issue of
the said John Paradise, on her body to 1ie begotten,
and for the consideration of ten shillings to the said
John Paradise, paid by the said Lee and Carry, and
for divers other good causes and valuable considerations, him, the said John Paradise thereunto moving,
he the said John Paradise covenanted with said Lee
and Carry, that if the marriage took effect, he would
- make, or cause to be made, such acts and deeds as
would convey all the estates of the said Lucy Ludwell to the said Lee and Carry, upon trust, as to
that part of the real property, which was situate in.
Virginia. .1. To the use of John Paradise for life,
remainder'to the use of all or any of the children of
the' marriage, for such estates (not exceeding estates
tail) as John Paradise and the said Lucy Ludwell,
by deed, during the coverture or as the survivor of
them, by deed or will should appoint, and in default

OF THE UNITED STATES.

of such appointment, to the use of all the children of
the marriage .astenants in common in tail %vith.cross
tothe use of such perremainders in tail, remainder
•
son as the said Lucy Ludwell should appoint, and
in default of such appointment, to the use of the survivor of John Paradise anid Lucy Ludwell in fee
simple. 2. With power to the husband and-wife, to
make leases not exceeding twenty-one years. 3. With
power to the trustees to sell any part of the estate,
and apply the proceeds to 'the purchase of other
lands in England, subject to the use of the marriage
articles. And as to the personal estate of the
said Lucy
Ludwel, to the use of John Paradise fbr life, remainder to Lucy Ludwell for life, remainder to the
children of the marriage as the parents should appoint, and in default of such appointment, to the use
of all the children of the marriage, share and share
alike: But if there should be no children of the
marriage, or being sucl, if all of them should die
before the age of twenty-one, or marriage, then to the
use of such person as the said Lucy Ludwell should
appoint, and in default of such appointment, to the
survivor of the said John Paradise and Lucy Ludwell in absolute property. And as to the second of
the said sums of 4,0001. to the trustees upon trust
for the use of John Paradise for life, remainder to
Lucy Ludwell for life, remainder to the children of
the marriage, in the same manner as the personal
estate of the said Lucy Ludwell was settled: Provided, that if there should be no issue of the marriage,
then to the use of John Paradise in absolute property. Provided, also, that it should and might be
VOL. IV.

457.
1819.

Orr

V.

Hodgson

468

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURIT

lawful for the trustees, with the consent of the said
John Paradise and Lucy Ludwell, or the survivor of
Orr
V.
them, and after the death of such survivor, of their
Hodgson. or his own authority, to lay out the same in lands
in
England to the use of John Paradise for life,
remainder to Lucy Ludwell for life, remainder to
the children of the marriage in the same manner as
the lands of the said Lucy Ludwell were settled.
That after the death of the said Peter Paradise, tile
said John Paradise, as his executor, paid the last
mentioned 4,0001. to the trustees aforesaid, who invested it in the British funds, and by deed dated the
8th of December, 1783, and to which the said John
Paradise and Lucy Ludwell were parties, they de.dared the same subject to the uses of the marriage
settlement. The bill further alleged, that the plaintiffW upon discovering the foregoing circumstances,
applied to the defendants, and requested them to rescind the contract, and to deliver up the bond to the
plaintiff to be cancelled, the same having been obtained by misrepresentation or through mistake without any consideration valuable in law, and at the
same time offered to convey back to them any title,
interest or estate, which might have been conveyed
to him by the defendants. But that the defendants
refused, and threatened to bring a suit at common
law'upon the said bond, and to enforce payment
thereof, contrary to equity. Concluding with tht.
usual. prayer for a discovery, &c. and for a decree
rescinding the sale of lands, and that the defendants
should be compelled to deliver up the bond to be
caacelled, and for further relief, &c.
1819.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

To which bill the defendant. demurred.
The bill was dismissed by the Court below with
costs,, and the cause was brought by appeal to this
Court.

The cause was argued by Mr. Jones for the defendants' and respondents, no counsel appearing for
the appellant.

1819.

.rr
Hodgson.

Feb. 18th.

Mr. Justice SToR Y delivered the opinion of the warch 1ta.
Court, The whole merits of this cause rest upon
the question, whether the defendants, Portia Hodgson, and Cornelia Hopkins, took an estate in fee simple, in one moiety of the land stated in the bill, by
descent, as nieces"and heirs of Lucy Paradise, widow
of John Paradise, upon her death in 1814. If they
did, then the contract for the sale of the land to the'
plaintiff ought to be fulfilled; if.not,, then-the contract ought to be rescinded.
Two objections are urged'against the title. First,
that Lucy Paradise, at the time of her death, was a
British subject, and so not capable of passing the land
in question by descent ; secondly, if so entitled, yet,
upon her death, the land escheated to the commonwealth of Virginia, for want of heirs legally entitled
to take the same by descent.
It appears, that Lucy Paradise took her moiety of
the estate in question by d'evise from her father, Philip Ludwell, who was a native of Virginia, where,
also, his daughter Lucy was born. Sometime.' before the year 1767, he removed with his family, including this daughter, to England* where he died iia

460,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

181g.
"

'

Orr
V,.

Hodgson.

1767. In 1769, this daughter was married in Eng7
land to John Paradise, (a British subject,) by whom
e
she had issue a daughter, Lucy, wh was born in
England, about 17-0, and who, afterwards, in 1787,.
in England, married Count Barziza, a Venetian subject, by whom she had two sons, one born in Venice
in lielruary, 1789, and the other in Venice, in August, 1796, both of whom are now living.' The
C6ttess Barziza died in Venice, in August, 1800,
leaving no other issue except her twvo sons, and neither she, nor her husband, nor her sons, were ever in
the United States. In the year 1787, John Paradise
came with his wife to Virginia, and returned with
her to England in the year 1789, where he 'died in
1796.' After the death of her husband, Lucy Para-.
dise treated the land in controversy as her own, exercising acts of ownership, over it; and about the year
1805, returned to Virginia, where she died intestate, in
,possession of the land, in 1814, leaving no issue but
her two grandsons, the children of the Countess
Barziza, and the defendants Portia and Cornelia,
her nieces, who would be her heirs at law if no such
issue were living.

statement, it is clear, that the
summary
sons this
of the
Countess Barziza are aliens to the
,hs.., tut not twoFrom
by descent
commonwealth of Virginia, and, of course, cannot
may
An alien
take
b ,put'-

take the estate in question, by descent from their
grandmother, unless their disability is removed by
the treaty of' 1794. .For though an alien may take
Am .estate by the act of the-parties as by purchase;
yet he can never take by the act of the law, as by,
descent, for he has no inheritable blood. But the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

objection now supposed to exist is, that under these
circumstances, although the grandsons cannot, as
aliens, take by descent; yet they answer in some

1819.

sort, to the description of " heirs," and, therefore,

Hodgeot.

prevent the estate from desconding to the nieces who
have a legal capacity to take, because, strictly speaking, they are not heirs. The law is certainly otherwise., Where a person dies, leavingZDissue, who are
aliens, the latter are not deemed his heirs in law, for
they have no inheritable blood, and the estate de-

scends to the next of kin, who have an inheritable
blood, in the same manner as if no such alien issue
were in existence.0 In the present case, 1therefore,

or

,.

per.
Where
son
dies,al-av.
issue who
ing
are hliens,
the
,tter are not
deemed

btthe

his

estat

descends to the
ne,,t
of kin,
an
who have

inheritable
in the
blood

the defendants, the nieces of Lucy Paradise, are her s.,eif nomanner
such

heirs at law, entitled to take by descent, whatever

as

alien issue

were in exis-

estate could rightfully pass to her heirs, unless the tence.

British treaty of 1794 enlarged the capacity of her
grandsons to take by descent, a point which will be
hereafter considered. And this brings us to the other
question in the cause, whether Lucy Paradise, under
the circumstances of the case, had such an estate,
in the land, as could by law pass by descent to her
heirs.
There is no question that she took an estate in
fee simple by devise from her father; but it is
supposed, that although born in Virginia, by her removal to England, with her father, before, and remaining there until long after, the American revolution, she must be considered as electing to remain a,
(a) 2 BL. Com. 249.
Dig. .Alien. C. 1.

Duroure v. Jones,

4

T. I. 300. Corn

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

19

V.
Hodgsou.

'rhe 6th article

9f the British
treaty of 17e3,
was
not meant
was no
meant
to be confined
toconfiscations
Jure belli ; but

British subject, as well by operation of law, as by

the statutes of Virginia on this subject, because an
alien to that commonwealth. And if she became an
alien, then the estate held by her could not pass
by descent, but for defect of inheritable blood escheated to the government."
Admitting that Lucy Paradise did so become an
alien, it is5 material to inquire what effect the treaty

of peace of 1783 had upon her case ; and upon the
completely
best consideration that we can give to it, we are of
protected the
ties
of
Bri
opinion that the sixth article of that treaty' completetih sujet
from forfeit- ly protedted her estate from forfeiture by way of esure bescheat J
fr th defect cheat for the defect of alienage. That defect was a
of alienage.
disability solely occasioned by the war, and the separation of the colony from the mother country ; and
under such circumstances, a seizure of the estate by
the government, upon an inquest of office, tor the supposed forfeiture, would have been a confiscation of the
property in the sense in which that term is used in the
treaty. When the 6th article of the treaty declared,
"that no future confiscation should be made," it
could not mean to confine the operation of the language to confiscations jure belli; for the treaty itself
a Com. Dig, Alien. C. 2. Co. Litt. 2. b.
b Which provides, " that there 'shall be no future confisca-

tions made,'nor any prosecutions commenced, against any person
or persons, for, or by reason of, the part which he or they may
have taken in the present war; "and that no -person shall, on
that account, suffer any future loss or damage, either in his person, liberty, or property ; and that those who may be in confinement on such charges, at the time of the 'ratification of the
treaty in .America, shall be immediately set at liberty, and the
prosecutions so commenced be discontinued."

OF THE UNITED STATES.

463

ini9.
eytinguished the war, and, with it, the rights growOrr
ing out of war ; and when it further declared, that
V.
had
he
part
the
of
no person should, on account
damage,
or
loss
future
taken in the war, suffer any
either in his person, liberty, or property, it must have
meant to protect him from all future losses of property, which but for the war would have remained
inviolable. The fifth article of the treaty also*materially illustrates and confirms this construction. It
is there agreed, that Congress shall recommend to the
State legislatures to provide for the restitution of all
estates of British subjects, &c. which had been confiscated. Yet, why restore such estates, if, eo instanti,
they were forfeitable on account of alienage ? This
Subject has been heretofore before us, and although
no opinion was then pronounced, it was most deliberately considered. We do not now profess to go
at large into the reasoning upon which our present
opinion is founded. It would requite more leisure
than is eonsistent with other imperious duties; and
we must, therefore, content ourselves with stating, that
the doctrine here asserted is the decided judgment
of the Court.
9thseceon
If the case were: not protected by the treaty of The
of the British
treatyof
to consider whe• • •• . necessary
.•
1783, it might become
app
ies to1794.
the
of th
tit.
of
treaty
the
of
article
ninth
the
by
aided
ther it is
parties, at the
,"
'
treaty
tinethe
inade,
andi
*vwas
,
-, that British subjects, who now
1794, which declares,
Coriin~ togives - it the
t
tato
hold lands in the United States, shall continue S.lidity as if they
hold them, according to the nature and tenure of wereitizfens.
It is not necesthat they
their respective estates and titles therein, and that sary
should have an
as to such lands, and the legal remedies incident nctualseizinur
tposseion.
ihereto, neither they, nor their
heirs or assigns,

.464

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

The 9th article
of the British
tay of 1794,
did not mean
icude
ar
to
other
persons

be regarded as aliens. It does not appear, by
the bill in this case, that Lucy Paradise was in the
actual possession or seisin of' the land at the time of
the treaty. Nor is it necessary, because the treaty
applies to the title, whatever it is, and gives it the
same legal validity as if the parties were citizens."
But although it does not directly appear by the bill
what the title of Lucy Paradise was, at the time of
the treaty ; yet, as the title is asserted in her, both
before and after the treaty, and there is no allegation
of any intermediate transfer, it must be presumed in
this suit, that She never parted with her title. It follows, that in this view also, her title was Completely
confirmed, free from the taint of alienage; and, that
by the express terms of the treaty, it might lawfully
pass to her heirs.
And here it becomes material to ascertain whether
the treaty of 1794, under the description of heirs, meant
to include any other persons than such as were Bri-

Britis4h
than
suectsofor ti
the
ti~rns

tish subjects or. American citizens, at the time of the

1819.

-shall

,.
Hodgson.

United States.

descent cast ; and it is our opinion, that the intention
was not to include any other persons. Itcannot be presumed, that the treaty stipulated for benefits to any
persons who were aliens to both governments. Such a
construction would give to this class of cases privileges
and immunities far beyond those of the natives of
either country; and it would also materially interfere with -the public policy common to both. We
have, therefore, no hesitation to reject any interpretation which would give to persons, aliens to both
a Harden v. Fisher, I Wheat. Rep. 300.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
s9ig.
governments, the privileges of both ; and in this predicament are the children of the Countess Barziza.
Orr
V.
The rule, then, of the common law, which gives
Hodgsog.
blood,
inheritable
having
theestate to the next heirs
must prevail in this case.
We have not thought it necessary to go, into an
examination of the articles for a marriage settlement
entered into between Lucy Paradise and John Paradise, on their marriage, for two reasons : first, the
articles were merely executory, and, being entered
into by Mrs. Paradise when under age, and not afterwards ratified: by her, they were not binding upon
her; secondly, if they were binding, yet, inasmuch
as the only persons in whose favour they could now
be executed, are aliens incapable of holding.the estate
to their own use, no Court of Equity would, upon
the general, policy of the law; feel itself at liberty
to decree in their favour.

Decree dismissing the bill affirmed, with costs.a
Mr. Chief Justice MARBRALLdid not'sit in tlhis cause,.

VoL. IV.

