246. 1819.

kp

U. States

v.

Rice.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

section of the act of March 3d, 1801. By the former section, the Courts of the district are vested generally with jurisdiction of all causes in law and
equity ; and, by the latter, the clerks of the Circuit

Court are required to perform all the services then
performed by the clerks of the counties of the State
of Maryland. Among those services' is that of instituting a judicial proceeding in favour of this bank,
and the return of that process is required to be to
the Court with which such clerk is connected. That
Court has jurisdiction of all cases in law arising
in this district, and thus the suit is instituted by the
proper officer, by writ returnable to a Court having
a jurisdiction communicated by terms which admit
of no exception.
Upon the whole, we are -of opinion that the law
is constitutional, and the jurisdiction vested in the
Courts of the district; and, therefore, that the judgment must be reversed, and the cause remanded for
further proceedings.
Judgment. reversed.

(COMMON LAW.>

The UNITED STATES

V, RICE.

By the conquest and military occupation of a portion of the terrritory
of the United States by a public enemy, that portion is to be deemed.a foreign country, so far as respects our revenue laws.

Goods imported into it, are not imported into the United States; and
ar0 subject to such duties only as the conqueror may impose.,.

247

OF THE UNITED STATES.
The subsequent evacuation of the conquered territory by the enemy,
and resumption of authoity by the United St:tes, cannot change
the character of past transactions. The jus postliminii does not
apply to the case; and, goods prei oudy importea do notbecome
liable to pay duties'tq the United States, by the resumption of their
sovereignty over the conquered territory.

-

to the Circuit Court of Massachusetts.
This was an action of debt, brought by the United
States against the defendant, upon a bond -for the penal
sum of 15,000 dollars, dated the 17th of April, 1816,
with the following condition: The condition .of this •
obligation is such, that if the above bounden Henry,
Rufus, and David, or either of them, or either of their
heirs, executors, or administrators, shall and do, on or
before the 17th day of October next, well and truly
pay, or cause to be paid, unto the collector of the
customs for the district of Penobscot,"for the time
being, the sum of 7,500 dollars, or the amount of the
duties to be ascertained as due and arising on certain goods, wares, and merchandises,.entered by the
above bounden Henry Rice, as imported-into Castine,
during its occupation by the British troops, as per
entry dated this date, then the above obligation to be
void, otherwise to remain in full force and virtue.
Oyer of the cont'ition being had, the defendant
pleaded as follows: That before the time of the
making of the supposed writing obligatory, to wit,
on the 18th of June, in the year of our Lord 1812,
war was declared by the Congress of the said United States, to exist between the united kingdom of
Great Britain. and Ireland, and the dependencies
thereof,. and the said United States and their territoERROR

1819.
U. States
V.
Rice.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURIT

248
[819.
'

ties, and war and open hostilities existed, and wert

U. States'carried

v.
Rice.

on between the said United States and the

said united kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland,
and the dependencies thereof, from the said 18th of
June, until the 17th of February, in the year of our
Lord 1815, on which said last-mentioned day, a
treaty of peace and amity between the said United
States and the king of the said united kingdom, was
accepted, ratified, and confirmed. And the said Henry: farther says, that during the continuance of such
war and hostilities as aforesaid, and before the
making of the said supposed writing obligatory, to
wit, on the 1st of September, in the year of our Lord
1814, the said king of the said united kingdom, in
prosecution of said war against the said United States i
did, with a naval and military force, and in a hostile
manner,' attack, subdue, capture, and take possession
of the town and harbour of Castinie, situated in the
District of Maine, and continued to hold the excluive and undisturbed possession of the same by a
naval and military force, and in a hostile manner, and
secured his said possession by muniments and miliitaryworks, and had, and exercised the exclusive control and government thereof, from the day last afore-'
said, continually,, until the said ratification of the
treaty aforesaid. And immediately after the capture
of said town and harbpur, and before the importation
of -the goods and merchandises in the condition of
said. writing mentioned, the said king of the said united kingdom caused a custom -house, or excise office,
to be established at said Castine. and appointed a eollector of the customs there, who thereupon entered

OF THE UNITED STATES.

249

isig.
upon the discharge of the duties of his. said office,
and so continued to exercise the powers and dis- U. States
V.
charge the duties of said office during all the time that
Rico.
aforeas
soopossesed
were
harbour
and
town
the said
said, by the military and naval forces of the said kingAnd the said Henry further says, that afterwards,
and while the said town and harbour were so held
and possessed by the military and naval forces
aforesaid, and were under the control and government of
the said king, to wit, on the I st of January, in the
year of our Lord 1815, the goods and merchandises
in the condition of said supposed writing obligatory
mentioned, were purchased by Thomas Adams,,Samud Upton, and Greenleaf Porter, who were then
and there merchants, resident and domiciled in said
Castine, and there trading under the name and firm
of Upton & Adams, having been citizens of said United States, resident in Castine, and there trading under said firm, before and at the time of said occupation, and still continuing to reside and trade in said
Castine, and said goods were imported into the said
town of Castine, by them the said Thomas, Samuel,
and Greenleaf, and were by them duly entered in the.
custom house, or excise office, so established as aforesaid in said Castine, and the duties thereon were
paid to said collector, so appointed. as last aforesaid.
And the said Henry further says, that at the time of
the purchase and importation aforesaid, and during
all the time that the said town and harbour were so
held and possessed, as aforesaid, the said Thomas,
Samuel, and Greenleaf, were inhabitants of the said
town of Castine, and domiciled, and carrying on
VoL.. IV.

32

.250

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1819.
U. States

u.,a.

Rice.

commerce in said town,,under the protection, government, and authority of the said king. And the said
Henry further avers, that after the said goods and
merchandises were so imported as aforesaid, after the
entry thereof with the collector of the district of Penobscot,' as hereinafter mentioned, and the making
and executing of the said supposed writing obligatory, to wit, on the 127th of April, in the year of our
Lord 1815, in pursuance of the said treaty so made
and ratified as aforesaid, the said town of Castine was
evacuated by the troops and forces of said king, and
possession thereof was taken by the said United
States. And he further avers, that after the ratification of the treaty aforesaid, and after hostilities had
ceased between the said United States and the said
united kingdom nd its dependencies, to wit, on the
15th day of April, in the year of our Lord, 1815, at
Castine, to wit, at said Boston, the said Thomas, Samuel, and Greenleaf, for a valuable consideration,
then and there paid to them by the said Henry, bargained, sold, -and delivered to him, the said Henry,
the goods and merchandises aforesaid, in the condition of said supposed writing obligatory mentioned,
the same being then in said Castine. And he further
avers, that after the making and ratification of the
treaty aforesaid, and after the bargain, sale, and delivery aforesaid, to wit, on the 17th of April, in.jhe
year last aforesaid, at Castine, to wit, at said Boston,
Josiah Hook, then and ever since collector of the
customs of the said United States for the district of
Penobscot, in which said district the said town of
Castine is contained, acting under colour of the an-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1819.
thority of the said United States, and of his said
office of collector, demanded and required of the said U.""States.
V.
Henry, to enter the said goods and merchandises with
Rice,
se'him at his office in said Castine, and to pay, or to
cure to the said United States, the same duties there-on, as though they had. been imported into the said.
United States, from a foreign port or place, on the.
said last-mentioned day, in a ship or vessel not of
the United States, and then and there threatened to.
seize and detain said goods and merchandises, and,
thereby to deprive the said Henry of all use an& be*nefit thereof, unless he would immediately pay or secure to the United States such duties thereon as
aforesaid. Whereupon, to prevent the seizure and
detention of said goods and merchandises by. said.
collector, and the losses and damages that would
have ensued thereon, and that he, the said Henry,
might, without any lawful interruption, or molestation by said Collector, retain and .dispose of said
goods and merchandises, for his use and benefit, he, the said Henry, then and there entered the.
said goods and merchandises with the said collector, in the said custom house at Castine, and in
pursuance of the demand and requirement aforesaid,
of said collector, sealed and delivered- the' said supposed writing obligatory, with said condition annex-*
ed, to said collector. And the said Henry avers, that
the goods and merchandises mentioned in the said
conditionare the same which were imported into the
said port and town of Castine, while the said port
and town wpre in the possession, and under the control and government of the said king, and which were

252
iei,.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

entered at the said custom house there, and not other
different. And that the same goods and merchandises, at the time of the importation aforesaid, and
thence continually, until the sale and delivery there-

Sor

U. states
Rice.

of, in manner aforesaid, to the said Henry, were in
the possession, and subject to the control and disposal of the said Thomas, Samuel, and Greenleaf, and
from the time of the sale and delivery aforesaid, until
and at the time of making and executing the said
supposed writing obligatory, were in the possession,
.and subject to the control and disposal of the said
Henry, at Castine, to wit, at said Boston. By means
whereof the said goods, wares, and merchandises,
were not, at the time of'entering the same with the
said Hook, or at any time before or since, goods,
wares, or merchandises, brought into the said United
States, .from any foreign port or place, nor upon
which any sum or sums: of money whatsoever,
were then and there due and arising, or payable
to the said United States for duties, and this he
is ready to verify. Wherefore he prays judg-

ment,"1 &c.

There was a second plea, not varying materially
from the first.
-Tothese pleas the Attorney for the .United States
demurred generally, and the defendant joined in de,
murrer.
Judgment was rendered for the defendant in the
Circuit Court, and the cause was brought by writ of
errot to this Court.
Feb. 19h.

The cause was argued, by the .Attorney General,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

253

x11.
for the United States, and by Mr. Webster, for the
te •
1U. States
defendant.n
V.

Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Feb.Rice.
22d.
Court.
The single question arising on the pleadings in
this case is, whether goods imported into Castine
during its occupation by the enemy are liable to the
duties imposed by the revenue laws upon goods imported into the United States. It appears, by the
pleadings, that on the first day of September, 1814,
Castine was captured by the enemy, and remained
in his exclusive possession, under the command and
control of his military and naval forces, until after
the ratification of the treaty of peace in February,
1815. During this period the British government
exercised all civil and military authority over the
place ; and established a custom-house, and admitted
goods to be imported, according to regulations prescribed by itself, and, among others, admitted the
, s. 5, 4- seq.
a He cited Grotius, De J. I. ac. P. 1. 2. c.
lb. 1. 3. c. 6. s. 4. lb. 1. 3. c. 9. s. 9. 14. Puffendorf, by Barbeyrac, 1. 7. c. 7. s. 5. lb. 1. 8. c. 11. s. 8. Bynkershoek, Q.
J. Pub. 1. 1. c. 6. 16. Duponceau's Tranl. 46. 124. Poet ad
Pandect., 1. 39. tit. 4. no. 7. De Vectigalibus. lb. 1. 19. tit. 2. no.

28.

lb. 1. 49. tit. 15. no. 1. United States v. Hayward, 2 Gal-

lis. 501. The Fama, Rob. 106. The Foltina, Dodson, 450.
30 Hogsheads of Sugar, Bentzon, Claimant, 9 Cranch, 191.
Reeves' Law of Ship. 98. - seq. Vnited States v. Vowell,
5 Cranch, 368. United States v. Arnold, I Gallis. 348. S. C.
9 Cranch, 106. Empson v. Bathurst, Winch. Rep. 20. 50.

Jfinch. Entries, 334. cited Poph. 176. S. C. Hutton, 52.
Dig. Qf/icer, ff.

Com.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1819.
U. States

v.
race.

goods upon which duties are now demanded. These
goods remained at Castine until after it was evacuated by the enemy; and, upon the re-establishment
of the American. government, the collector of the
customs, claiming a right to American duties on the
goods, took the bond in question from the defendant,
for the security of them.
Under these circumstances, we are all of opinion,
that the claim for duties cannot be sustained. By
the conquest and military occupation of Castine, the
enemy acquired that firm possession which enabled
him to exercise the fullest rights of sovereignty over
that place. The sovereignty of the United States
over the territory was, of course, suspended, and the
laws of the United States could no longer be rightfully enforced there, or be obligatory upon the inhabitants who remained and submitted to the conquerors. By the surrender the inhabitants passed
under a teroporary allegiance to the British government, and were bound by such laws, and such only,
as it chose to recognise and impose. From the nature o&f the case, no other laws could be obligatory
upon-them, for where there is no protection or allegiance or sovereignty, there can be no claim td obedience. Castiae was, therefore, during this period,
so far as respected our. revenue laws, to be deemed"
a.foreign port; and goods imported into it by the,
inhabitants, were subject to such duties only as the
British government chose to require. Such goods
vere in no correct sense imported into the United
States. The subsequent evacuation by the enemy,
and iesumpti6r of authority by ther United States,

'OF THE UNITED STATES.

did not, and could not, change the character of the
previous transactions. The doctrines respecting the
jus postliminii are wholly inapplicable to the case.
imThe goods were liable to American duties, when
ported, or not at all. That they are so liable at the
time of importation is clear, from what has been
already stated ; and when, upon the return of peace,
the jurisdiction of the United States was re-assumed,
they were in the same predicament as they would
have been if Castine had been a foreign territory
ceded by treaty to the United States, and the goods
had been previously imported there. In the latter
case, there would be no pretence to say that American duties could be demanded; and, upon principles
of public or municipal law, the cases are not distinguishable. The authorities cited at the bar would,
if there were any dyutbt, be decisive of the question. But we think"# too clear to require. any aid
from authority.
Judgment affirmed, with costs.

(CHANCERY.)

BROWN et al. v. GILMAN.
The scrip or certificate holders, in the association called the NewEngland Mississippi Land Company, hold their shares under the
Company itself, as a -part of the common Capital stock, and are not
considered as holding derivatively, and solely as individual sub-purchasers, under the separate original titles of the original purchasers
from the Georgia Mississippi Company, so as to be affected by any
circumstances of defect in these separate original titles; these titles

being, in'fact, now vested in the trustees of the New-England Miw'

i8ig.
B

V.
Gilman.

