OASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1819.
The Expieri-

(PRACTicr.)

ment.

The

EXPERIME'It'.

.Depositions, taken on farther proof, in one prize cause, cannot be in.yoked into another.

from the Circuit Court of Massachusetts.
This was a question of collusive capture.
APPEAL

'eb, stb,

The Attorney General moved to invoke into this
cause depositions taken, on farther proof, in the case
of the George, reported ante, vol. 1. p.408.
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL. Original evidence
and depositions taken on the standing interrogatories,
may be invoked from one prize cause into another.
But depositions taken as farther proof in one cause,
cannot be used in another.
Motion refused.,
a But in other respects, cases of collusive and joint captures
form an exception to the general rules of evidence in prize
causes. In cases of this nature, the usual simplicity of the
prize proceedings is departed from, because the standing interrogatories are more peculiarly directed to the question of
prize or no prize, as between the captor and captured, and are
not adapted to the determination of questions of joint or collusive capture., It is, therefore, almost a matter of course to
permit the introduction of firther proof in these cases. The
George, ante, vol. 1. p 408. But this farther proof must be of
such a nature as is admissible by the general rules of prize

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1819.
evidence. Under what circumstances these rules permit the
11.
vol.
a;te,
seen,
be.
may
depositions,
and
papers
invocation of
Weigh:man
Jppendix, note 1. p. 23.
V.
Caldwell.

(COluON LAW.)

WEIGHTMAN V. CALDWELL.
,. B. C., having an interest in a cargo at sea, agreed with J. W. for

the sale of it, and J. V. signed the following agreement in writing:
" J. W. agrees to purchase the share of E. B. C. in the cargo of
the ship Aristides, W. P. Z., supercargo, say at 82,522 83, at

fifteen per cent. advance on said amount, payable at five month,
from this date, and to give a note or notes for the same, with an
approved endorser." In compliance with this agreement, 3. W.
gave his notes for the sum mentioned, and in an action upon the
notes, the want of a legal consideration under the statute of frauds
being set up as a defence, on the ground of the defect-of mutuality
in the written contract; the Court below left it to the jury to infer

from the evidence an actual performance of the agreement, the
jury found a verdict for the plaintiff, and the Court below rendered
judgment thereon. The judgment was affirmed by this Court.

ERROR

to the Circuit Court for the District of

Columbia.
This cause was argued by Mr. Jones and Mr. Key,
for the plaintiff in error,a and by Mr. Caldwell, and
Mr. Swann, for the defendant in error.'
a They cited Wain v. Warlters, 5 East, 10. Champion v.
Plummer, 1 N ew Rep. 252. Symonds v. Ball, 8 T. R. 151.
Saunderson v. Jackson, 2 Bos. 4' Pid. 238. Bayley and Bo-

