OF THE UNITED STATES.

513

commissioners, and filed his cross interrogatories, to 18.19.,
be propounded to the witnesses. The commission '. Boyd
,'
was executed by the commissioners so named, and
V.
the witnesses were regularly examined, as well on Graves.
the cross interrogatories, as on those in chief.
After such unequivocal evidence of consent to the
'issuing of the commission, it is not competent to the
plaintiff's counsel to object, that- it issued improvidently, or that the rule was improperly obtained.
It is to be certified to the Circuit Court for the
district of Delaware, that the depositions taken under
the commission, referred- to in the transcript of the
record sent to this Court, dated the 31st day of October, 1817, ought to be given in evidence to the jury,
upon the trial of the cause in which they were taken.
Certificate accordingly.

(COMMON LAW.)

I30YD's Lessee v. GRAVES et at.
An agreement, by parol, between too proprietors of adjoining lands, to
employ a surveyor to run the dividing line between them, and that
it should be thus ascertained and settled, which was executed, and
the line accordingly run and marked on a plat by the surveyor, in
their presence, as the boundary, held to be conclusive in an action
of ejectment, after a correspondent possession of 20 years by the
parties, and those claiming under them respectively.
Such an agreement is not-within the statute of frauds, as being a contract for the sale of lands, orany interest in or concerning them.

VOL. IV.

66

CASES IN ,THE SUPREME COURT

514
1819.
B
Boyd

G.

Mr. Justice
Court.

DUVALL

delivered the opinion of the
by Andrew

was brought
action of
An against
Boyd
theejectment
defendants, in the Circuit Court for
the District of Kentucky, on the 25th of November,
1814, for 2,000 acres of land in Fayette County, on
the waters of Elkhorn creek. The patent bears date
on the 3d of December, 1789, and was granted to
Andrew Boyd, pursuant to a survey made, the 14th of

July, 1774, on a warrant issued under the royal proclamation of 1763. This tract of land is contained
within the courses and distances following: beginning
at a buckeye and ash corner to John Carter's land,
and in a line of William Phillips's land, and with the
same southwest 374 poles, crossing a small branch
to a hoopwood and sugar tree, and leaving said line
S. .E. 860 poles, crossing a branch to an elm and
buckeye N. E. 374 poles, crossing a branch to a sugar tree and buckeye, thence N. W. 860 poles to the
beginning.
The defendants claimed title under a patent granted to Elijah Craig, on the 7th of November, 1779,
for 2,000 acres, on a warrant to John Carter, heir at
law of. Thomas Carter, in consideration of military
services. The warrant was assigned to Craig. The
courses and distances are the following: beginning
at three large hoopwoods growing from one root,
corner to William Phillips's land, and with a line
thereof S. W. 374 poles, crossing two branches to a.
buckeye and ash on the bank, S. E. 860 poles, crossing a small creek to a sugar tree and buckeye, N. E.
374 poles, crossing three branches to an ash, hickory,

616

OF THE UNITED STATES. .

mulberry, and. hoopwood, N. W. 860 poles to the
first station.
These two tracts are adjacent to, and bind on each
other. 'It is obvious that they were intended to present rectangular figures, and to contain equal quantities; but by satisfying the calls; the figures are irregular, and do not contain equal quantities.
The plaintiff in the Court below locates his pretensions on the plat returned in the cause, beginning at.
A, then to K,to L, toD, and to the beginning. And
he locates Craig's patentbeginning at A, then to B,
to C, to D, and to the' beginning. The defendants
locate it, beginning at A, then to B, to C, to E, and
to the beginning.. The land contained in the triangle
A E D is the land in dispute.
The defendants, to support their location, offered
evidence to prove, that the dividing line between
Boyd and Craig being unascertained, the parties, by
agreement, had it surveyed, for the purpose of establishing and settling the line between them ; that,
in the year 1793, it was run, in their presence, from
A to E, as distinguished on the plat, and that it was
mi~tually agreed to establish the corner at E, where
a boundary was marked, by consent, E C and A B,
ahd that the line from A to E should be the dividing
line between them, and that possession had been
since held accordingly. They also offered in evidence, a deed. from Boyd and wife to William Hanback, bearing date the 14th of December,"1793, fbr
100 acres, part of the land granted td Boyd, beginning at the cornerat E beforementioned, and binding on the line A E, regarding it as tho dividing

,fi*.

Bo.yd
Graves.

516

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

line between Boyd and Craig; also a deed from
Craig to John Whitesides, dated 12th of May,
SElijah
Boyd
V. 1794, for 72 acres, part of Craig's patent, bounding
Graves. also on the' line A E as the dividing line between
1819.

Boyd and Craig: and that all the other defendants,
as purchasers, under Craig, held to the said line A E.
The defendants Counsel then moved the Court to
instruct the jury, that if they found from the evidence, that, owing to the uncertainty of the line of
said Boyd and Carter's military surveys, that the
said Boyd and Elijah Craig, by mutual consent,
surveyed and located their respective patents by
making the line from A to E, and marking the corner at E, with the intent, '(at the time,) positively
expressed-'to settle and ascertain the true boundary
ind dividing line between the tracts respectively,
claimed by them under their patents, and that the
said 'line has been acquiesced in by the said parties,
and possession held and taken accordingly, for more
than 20 years before, the commencement of this
action, that they ought to find for the defendants :
which instruction the Court gave, and to this opinion of the Court, the plaintiff, by his counsel, excepted; and the record of the proceedings was-,.removed, by writ of error, to this Court, for 'their
decision.
At the trial in the Court below, several other questions were propounded, and decided by the Court,
and to which exceptions were taken, which it is not,
rmterial to notice here, because, the decision of this
Court on the questibn stated, will decide the controversy between the parties.

-OF THE UNITED STATES.

It appears, that in the year 1793, more than twenty
years before the commencement of this action of
ejectment, Boyd and Craig employed a surveyor to
run the dividing line between them, and-they mutually agreed, that it should be thus ascertained and
settled. It was, accordingly,: run as described, on
the plat from A to E, and the corner at E was marked in their presence as the boundary between them.
That possession has been held by each, and those
claiming under them respectively, from that time to
the present; and that each has sold parcels of land,
bounding them on the line A E thus agreed on, regarding it as the established line between them. Hence,
tile question arise.s, whether the agreement made in
1793, although by parol, accompanied by correspondent possession for more than 20 yars, is, or is not,
conclusive against the plaintiff's right of recovery in
this action ?
This Court cannot consider the agreement of the
parties, although by parol, to settle the dividing line
between them by a surveyor, mutually employed, as
affected by the statute of frauds, as is contended by
the counsel for the plaintiff. It is not a contract for
'the sale or conveyance of lands. It has "noingredient of such a contract. There is no quid pro quo:
and the Court do not consider it as a conveyance of
title from one person to another. It was merely a
subiiission of a matter of fact, to ascertain where the
line would run on actual survey, beginning at a place
admitted and acknowledged by the parties to be a
boundary, where the line must begin. The possession subsequently held, and the acts of the parties

517.

p819.
Boyd
Y.
Graves.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

518
1819.
O
Dartmouth
College

evidenced by their respective sales of parcels of the
land held by each, under his patent, bounding on the
agreed line, amount to a full and complete recogni-

Woodward. tion of it; and in the opinion of this Court, precludes

the plaintiff, afier such a lapse of time, from denying
it to be the dividing line between him and the defendants; and neither ought now to be permitted to disturb
the possession of the other, under a pretence that the
line was not correctly run.
Judgment affirmed.

(CONSTITUTIONAL LAW.)

The

TRUSTEES OF DARTMOUTH COLLEGE V. WOODWARD.

The charter granted by the British crown to the trustees of Dartmouth
College, in New-Hampshire, in the year 1769, is a contract within the meaning of that clause of the constitution of the United
States, (art. 1. s. 10.) which declares that no. State shall make any
law impairing the obligation of contracts. The charterj' was not
dissolved by the revolution.
An act of the State legislature of New-Hampshire, altering the chatter, without the consent of the corporation, in a material respect, is
an act impairing the obligation of the charter, and is unconstitutional and void.
Under its charter, Dartmouth College was a private and not a public
corporation.
That a corporation is established for purposes of
general charity, or for education generally, does not, per s , make it
a public corporation, liable to the control of the legislature.

to the Superior Court of the State of
New-Hampshire.
This was an action of trover brought in the State
Couirt, in which the plaintiffs in error declared for
ERROR

