CASES IN -THE SUPREME COURT

1819.
The Divina
Pastora.

(PR,

Ime

E.)

DiViNA PASTORA.-The

Spanish Consul,,

Claimant.
''he government of the United States having recogniied the existence of a civil war between Spain and her colonies, but remaining
neutrali the Courts of the Union are bound to consider as lawful,
thosc.acts which war authorizes, and which the new governments
in Soutl America may direct against their enemy.
Unless th'e neutral rights of the United States, (as ascertained by the
.lakv of nations, the acts of congress, and treaties,) are violated by
the cruizers sailing under commissions from those governments,
captures by them are, to be regarded by us as other captures, jure
belli, are regarded; the legality of which cannot be determined in
the Courts of a neutral country.
IVWhere the pleadings in a prize, or other admiralty cause, are too informal and defective to pronounce a final decree upon the merits,
the cause will be remanded to the Circuit Court, with directions to
permit the pleadings to be amended, and for farther proceedings.

APPEAL

fron the Circuit Court of Massachu-

setts.

The petition or libel, in this cause, by the Consul
of his Catholic Majesty at Boston, alleges and pro-

pounds, 1. That there lately arrived at the port of
New Bedford, in this district, and is now lying in the
said port of N. B., a Spanish vessel, called the Esperanza, otherwise called the Divina Pastora, having
on board a cargo, consisting of cocoa, cotton, indigo,
hides, and horns, of great value, to wit, of the value
of 10,000 dollars; that the said vessel is navigated
by seven persons, who are all American citizens, as
,heis informed and believes; and that there are no

OF THE UNITED STATES.

other persons on board of said vessel, and none other

1819.

were :on board when the said vessel arrived at said
port. That the aforesaid persons say, that the said

The Divina

vessel was bound on a voyage from Laguira to Cadiz in Spain, and that she was captured by a privateer, or armed yessel, sailing under a flag, which
they denominate) the flag of La Plata ; and that they
did intend to carry said vessel to some port in the
West Indies, but, afterwards, came into the port of
New Bedford. 2. That the said vessel and cargo
purport tq have been consigned to Antonio Serisa,
merchant at Cadiz. 3. That the said Consul verily
believes. that the said vessel has been captured and
brought into the aforesaid port, conItrary to the law
of nations1, and in violation of the rights of the said
Antonio Seris, and that the said Antonio is justly
and.lawfully entitled to the possession of the. said
vessel and her cargo: concluding with a prayer,
that the process of the Coulrt may issue, directed to
the Marshal of this district, or his deputy, requiring
of them, cespectively, to take the said'vessel and
cargo into custody, to the end, that due inquiry may
be made into the facts pertaining to this case, and
that the property may be adjudged, decreed, and restored, according to the just rights of whomsoever
may be therein interested, and according to law and
the comity which the United States have always manifested towards foreign nations.
The plea and answer of "Don Daniel Utley, a
citizen of the free and independent United Provinces
of Rio de la Plata, &c., in behalf of himself and all
concerned, in the capture. of the Spanish polacre brig

Pastora.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1819.
Divina Pastora and her cargo, to the libel and petiThe DivinaionDoSouhta
exhibited by Don Juan Stoughton, Consul of his

Pastora.

Catholic Majesty, &c.," sets forth, that the said Utley,
by protestation, and not confessing or acknowledging
any of the matters and things in the libellan's petition and libel ontained, to be true, in such manner
and form as the same are therein and thereby alleged,
for plea to the said libel and petition, says, that
the United Provinces of Rio de ]a Plata in South
America, are free and independent states, and, as
such, have the power to levy war and make peace,
raise armies and-navies, &c. And that the Supreme
Provisional Director of said Provinces, at the- fort of
Buenos Ayres, on'the 25th day of October, 1815,
commissioned a certain schooner, called the Mangoree to cruize against the vessels and effects of the
kingdom of Spain, and the subjects thereof, excepting only the Spanish Americans who defend their
liberty, and authorized one James Barnes to act as
commander of said schooner, and to seize and capture the vessels and effects of European Spaniards,
and bring them within the government of the United
Provinces, for adjudication, according'to the law of nations, Ferdinand VII., king of Spain, then being at
war with said provinces, and general reprisals having been granted by said provisional government
against the European subjects of the said king.
That said schooner Mangoree, bearing the flag of
thesaid independent Provinces, sailed on a cruise
from the harbour of Buenos Ayres, within the said.
Provinces, on or about the first day of January,-1816,
by virtue of said commission. And having touched

OF THE UNITED STATES.

at Port au Prince, in the island of Hispaniola, sailed
is1i.
Tb Diviam
again on said cruise, and on the 31st of October, 2The
brig
Pastora.
the
polacre
seas,
&c.
captured
1816, on the high
Divina Pastora, belonging to the said king, or to his
European subjects, on board of which brig said
Utley was put as prize-master. And the original
crew of said prize was taken out by the said Barnes,
&c., and put on board of said schooner Mangorce,
and a.prize crew sent on board the Pastora. And
the said Barnes, &c., then appointed said Utley to
the command of the said prize, and delivered to him
a copy of his commission,' &c., which the said Utley
now brings with him, and respectfully submits to the,
inspection of this honourable Court. And thereupon, the said Utley proceeded to navigate the said
prize from the place where she was captured to Portau-Prince, in the island of Hispaniola, for the purpose of there procuring supplies and provisions, and
thence proceeding to the port of Buenos Ayres. The
plea then proceeds to state, that in the prosecution of
the voyage, the prize vessel was compelled, by stress
of weather, and want of provisions and water, to put
into the port of' New Bedford ; and concludes with
alleging, that by the law of nations, and the comity
and respect due from one independent nation to another, it doth not pertain to this Court, nor is it within
its cognizance, at all to interfere, oe hold plea respecting said brig, or goods on board , so taken as
prize of war, and a prayer for restitution, with costs
and damages.
The replication of the Spanish Consul states, that
inasmuch as the said Utley, in, his plea, admits-that

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1819.

the said vessel, and the cargo laden on board, were,

The Divina

1816, the property of a
on the 31st
s day of October

,Pastora.

subject or subjects of his majesty Ferdinand VII.,
the said consul claims the same, as the property of
such subject or subjects, the names of whom are to
him, at present, unknown; excepting that he verily
believes the same to be the lawful property of Antonio Seris, as he, in his petition, hath set forth: And
avers, that the same ought to be restored and delivered up for the use of the Spanish owner or owners.
The replication then proceeds to aver, that as the
said vessel is'stated in the plea to -have been captured
on the high seas by a certain armed vessel called the
Mangoree, commanded by one James Barnes, which
armed vessel is stated to have been commissioned
under a certain authority called the United Provinces.
of Rio de La Plata in South America, the said cap- ture and seizure, &c. were piratical, or tortious, and
contrary to the lawful and well known rights of the
faithful subjects of his said majesty, to whom the
same belonged at the time of such capture, &c., and
that no right of property thereby vested in the said
Barnes or Utley, or any other person or persons who
were navigating and sailing in the said armed vessel
called the Mangoree: Ist. Because, at the time when
the said pretended capture as prize of war was made,
&c., the several provinceg situate in South America,
and near to the river called Rio de la Plata, were
provinces and colonies of his said majesty Ferdinand
VII., and now are provinces and colonies of his said
majesty; and that the same had been, for a long
course of years, provinces and colonies of the suc-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

cessive kings of Spain; and that all the people, per- , M.9'
sons, and inhabitants dwelling therein, were, on'the Th. Divina
21st dayof October,,1815, and for a long time be- Fastora.
fore had been, and now are Spanish subjects, and did
at the aforesaid times, and now do oWe allegiance
and fidelity to his said majesty. 2dly. Because thd
said subjects and persons, dwelling in the :said provinces and colonies in South America, had not, on
the 25th day of October, 1815, nor had any, or either
of the said subjects and persons, then, or at any ,other
time, any lawful right, power, or authority, to commission any vessel .*r vessels, or iany person or per.
sons whomsoever, to wagewar against him, the said
Ferdinand VII., nor against his subjects, or their
persons., or property, by sea, or elsewhere; and that
no. persop or persons whomsoever, could lawfully receive, and take from aly person or persons in any of
the said colonies or provinces,, any commission, power, or, authority, of right, to wage war, and make
captures of any. property on the high seas. 3dly,
Because all, captures made on the high seas, under
the. pretenceof power or authority derived from, or
'in virtle.of any, such commission as set forth in said
plea,.is unlawful and piratical ; and that all pretended captlurs and seizures, as prize of war, of property
belonging to the subjects of his said majesty wheu
made ,under such commissions as aforesaid, are cog,pizable ,by, the,. Courts of nations at peace and in
tamity wih his:said., majesty, which hold pleas ,of
4imiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and take cognizance of cases• arising under the law of -nations,
whenever ;the property so captured is found within
Vor. IV.

8

5-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

.their respective jurisdictions. And as a furthee
~~ ~" ground for the claim of restitution to the original
The -Divina.
rastora. Spanish owners, the replication recites the 6th, 9th,
and 14th articles of the treaty of 1795, between the
-United States and Spain. And as a further ground
for the claim, it alleges, that the papers, exhibited
-With the plea, and by which the capture is pretended
to. be justified, are false and colourable ; that the
prize crew did iot speak the Spanish language, and
were shipped. at Port-au-Prince ; that one of the
*crewstated in his'affidavit that the flag of the privateer was obtained at that place; and that' all of them
stated, that the Divina PastQra, from the time of her
capture,, was ordered fdr, and bound to the same
place, al the captured persons having been previously
taken out of her, and put on, board the privateer.
And concludes with renewing the averments df the
piratical and tortious capture, and praying that restitution of the property may be decreed to him, the
.Spanish consul, to be held for the right owners ?r
o1wner thereof, who are subjects, or a subject of the
king of Spain,
.Upon these pleadings, further proeeedings" were
had in the District Court, under which a decree was
pronounced of restitution of. the vessel and cargo
to the libellant, for the benefit of the original Spa-'
nish owners. This decree was affirmed, proforma,
in the Circuit Court, and the oause was'brought by
appeal to this Court.
1819.

Feb. 34.

Mr. 'Winder, for the appellants, argued, thaithere
was nothing stated in the, allegation of the Spanish

OF THE UNITE)

STATES.

consul, orin the other pleadings in the cause, by

181.
which a prize court of this country could take juris- The Divina

diction of this capture. Nothing was alleged to show
that it was made within our neutral territory, or in
violation of our neutral rights by an armament fitted
out, or augmented in our ports; the only two cases
inwhich the tribunals of a neutral country can assume jurisdiction of captures made jure belli. The
present capture was made jure belli, because made
under a commission from the United Provinces of
the Rio de la Plata. The government of the United
States, recognizing the exis'tence of a civil war between Spain and the United Provinces, but remaining neutral, the Courts of the United States must
consider as legal, those ,acts of hostility which war
authorizes, and which the new government may direct against the parent country. a Possession under the
capture is primafacie evidence sufficient to maintain
that possesion', unless it is shown that the libellants
have a better right. But that possession is, admitted,
and nothing is shown by the pleadings'to authorize
the Courts of this country to devest it from the captors. There is nbinfraction of'the treaty with Spain
pleaded, which can give our Courts jurisdiction to restore to the former Spanish owners. The' 6th and
9th articles of the treaty of 1795 are the only articles
which can have any bearing upon the case, and 'these
only provide for restitution where the capture is made
within our territorial limits, or, where it is made by
pirates. , But it is not pretended, that the present capaThe United States v.Palmer, 3 Wheat. 610. 634.

Pastora.

CASES IN T11E SUPREME COURT

60
1819.

ture was made within our territorial jurisdiction; and

Divina
The D

the Court has already determined, that a capture under a commission from the revolted provinces is not a
piratical capture.

Pstora.

Mr. Webster and Mr. D. B. Ogden, contra, contended, that the District Courts of the United States
are Courts of the law of nations, and that a general
allegation of a marine tort, in violation of the law of
nations, is sufficient, prima facie, to give them jurisdiction, where the captured property is brought
within our territory. As a general allegation of prize
is sufficient,a so is a general allegation of an unlawfil
capture. it then'becomes incumbent upon the captors to show that the capture was made under a commission from a sovereign power in amity with the
United States. A neutral tribunal has a right to inquite, whether the commission was regularly issued
by a competent authority, in order to see whether
the capture was piratical, or in the exercise of the
lawful rights of war." The general rule, unquestionably, is,'that the Courts of the captors's country have
the exclusive cognizance of all seizures as prize:
but to this rule there are exceptions, as ancient, and as
firmly established as the rule itself. Among these is
the case of a capture made by an armament fittdd
out ort augmented within neutral territory. A capture thus made in violation of the neutral sovereignty
a The Fortuna, 1 Dodson.
!84..

The Adeline, 9 Cranch, 244.

b Talbot v. Janson, 3 Dall. 159.
!58.

2 Sir L.Jenkins, 7/27.

The'Invincible, I Weat.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
119.
deprives the Courts of the belligerent country bf their
confers it on the Courts of, .The Divina
exclusive jurisdiction, and
•
the neutral state, who will exercise it by making res- rastora.
titution to the injured party.a The adts of congress,

and the Spanish treaty, prohibiting the equipment of
armed vessels in our ports, and imposing the obligation-to restore captures made by them, are merely
accumulated upon the pre-existent law of nations,
which equally prohibited the one, as an injury to
friendly powers, and enjoiaed the other, as a corres-

pontdent duty.'

But even if this were not the law

a Talbot v. Janson, 3 Dall. 133. 164. The Alerta, '9 Cranch,
359. 364.
b Vattel, L. 3. c. 7. s. 104, 105. 2 Rntherforth, c. 9. s. 1).
p. 553. Martens on Privateers, s. 13. p.'4 2 . Burlamaqui,
p. 4. c. 3. s. 20, 21. 23. 2 Sir L. Jenkins, 727, 728.
" So that upon this whole matter of fact, there do arise two
questions: The one, whether the commission whereby 'this
Ostender.was taken, is a good commission ? The other, whether this capture was not a Violence to that protection and safi.
guard, which your majesty's authority affords imto strangers.
coming upon their lawful occasions towards any of your inajesty's harbours or ports ?
"As to the commission,'tis true, his majesty of Portugal i:;
not obliged, in granting out commissions, to take his measutes
from the English, or any other foreign style ; yet the general'
law determines all commissions, (most especially, such as this
is,) to be stricti juris, and not to be farther extendkd,' either
by inferences or deductions, than the express words do natuturally import. So that, whatever the meaning of that clause
be, viz., that de Bills may set out a man of war, and what other
vessels shall fie necessary for him, (as if he might have several
vessels at sea, a( one avid the same time, and yet, himself and
his commission can be but in one of them,) it cannot be said,
112at he hath 'liberty to substitute or depute another to act in

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

of nations, the treaty with Spain and the acts of
T vina congress make it the law of this' Court. " Every
aIstora. treaty," says Sir W. Scott,
is a part of the private
1819.

his place, since there' is no such power of deputation given
hiin by his commission: Much less can a copy or translation
be authentick, when there is no clause providing to that effect
in the original ; espedially in this case, which is as little favourable as can be inthe eye of the law.
The second question is,: as I humbly conceive, best resolved out of a declaration, which your majesty's grandfather
of blessed memory, "published in the year 1604, in-reference to
these. hostilities, in these words
Our pleasure is, that within our ports, havens, roads,
'creeks, orother places of Our dominion, or so near to any of
our said ports or havens, as may be reasonably construed to be
within that title,.limits, or precinct, there shall be no force,
violence, or surprize, or offence, suffered to be done, either
from man of war to man of war, or from man of war to merchant, &c., but that all of what nation soerer, so'long. as they

shall beWithin those our ports and places of jurisdiction, or
.where our officers may prohibit violence, shalt be understood
to be under our protection, and'to be ordered by course of
justice, &c. And that our officers and' subjects shall prohibit, as much, as in them lies, all hovering of men of war,
&c., so near the entry of any of our havens or coasts ; and
that they shall receive and succour1 all merchants and others,
that 'ihall fall within the danger of any such as shall await
our coasts, in so near places, to the hindrance of trade to and
from our kingdoms."
Sothat, considering this shallop set out of your majesty's
port, where it hovered fo: prey; since it was mann'd for the
most part with your majesty's, subjects, contrary to the meaning of thle 4th and 6th articles of the treaty with Spain, made
in the year,1630; since the surprisal was made in the night,
uot by force of arms, but by abusing your majesty's name and
authority ; since the true commission was neither pretended
showed, nor, iz.deed, on board at the time of the capture ; I

,OF THE UNITED STATES.

63

1819.
law of that state which enters into it.?a This principle of public law is expressly recognized by our The Divini
municipal constitution, in which. treaties entered into Prstora.
by the United States, are declared to be'a part of the
supreme law of the land. The Spanish treaty and
the acts of congress pronouncing the illegality of
captures in violation of our neutrality, the duty to restore the captured property to the original owner
follows as a corollary. Supposing the allegations to
be sufficiently pleaded, the proofs Will fully authorize
the Court in decreeing restitution to the original
Spanish owners in this case. But if the Court should
be of opinion, that the pleadings are defective, it will
not dismiss the injured party, but Will permit him
to assert his rights in a new allegation.

Mr. Chief Justice. MARSH'ALL delivered the opi- Feb. 5th.
nion of the Court. The decision at the last term, in
the case of the United States v. Palmer, ° establishes
the principle that the government of the United
States, having recognized the existence of a civil war
between Spain and her colonies, but remaining neutral, the Courts of the Union are bound to consider
"as lawful, those acts which war authorizes, and which
am of opinion, that the capture was unduly made, and that the
Ostender ought to have his ship and goods restored to him, and
that the commander in the shallop, and the English on board,
deserve to be punished. All which 1 do with all humility submit to your majesty's royal wisdom."
L. JENKINS."
a The Eenroom, 2 Rob. 8.
b The Adeline, 9 Cranch, 284. The Edward, I Wheat. 261.
the Samuel, ib. 13. note g.
269.
c 3 Wheat. 610.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1a1..

the new governments in South America may direct

of
The Divina against their enemy. Unless the neutral. rights
Putbra. the United States, as ascertained by the law of na-

tions, the acts of congress, and treaties with foreign,
powers, are violated by the cruizers sailing under
commissions from those governments, captures by
them are to be regarded by us as other captures, jure
belli, are regarded; the legality 9f which cannot be
determined in the courts of a neutral country, If,
therefore, it appeared in this case, that the capture.
was made under a regular commission from the government established at Buenos Ayres, by a vessel
which had not committed any violation of our neutrality, the captured property must be restored to the
possession of the captors." But if, on the other hand,
it was shown, that the capture was made in violation
of our neutral rights and duties, restitution would be
decreed to the original owners. But the pleadings
in thisacase 'are too informal and defective to pronounce a final decree Iupon the merits.. The proCeedings in the admiralty niust always contain at
least a geiera! iallegation of such a nature as will
apply to the case, as of prize, &c. The Court has
always endeavoured to.keep these prgceedings within
some kind 'of rtile, though not: requiring the same
technical strictness as, at common law. Here the
pleadiiigs present acase which may be consistent
with the demand of ith6'former owners for restitution,
but which is tied up to such a state of facts', dsi if
provedwill not authorize it; and will not admit the
introduction of evidence .varying from the facts all4ged. The decree of the Circuit Court must, therie-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

fore, be-reversed, and the cause remanded to that
Court, with directions to permit the pleadings to be
aThe
e
amended, and for farther proceedings.
Cause remanded.,
a It is a principle which'has been frequently laid down by
this Court, that'it is the exclusive right of governments to acknowledge new states arising in the revolutions of the world,
and until such recognition'by our government, or by the government of the empire to which such new state previously
belonged; courts of justice are bound to consider the ancient
state of. thifi,'as remaining unchanged. Rose v. Himely, 4
Crunch, 292. Gelston v. Hoyt, ante, vol. III. p. 324. -The
distinction between the recognition of the independence Of a
newly constituted government which separates itself from an
old established empire, and the recognition of the existence of
a civil war between such new government and the parent
country, is obvious.' In the latter case the very object of the
contest is what the former supposes to be decided. But in the
mean time, all the belligerent rights which belong to anciently
established governments, except so far as they may be restrained by treaty stipulations, belong to both parties. The obligations which neutrality imposes, are also to be fulfilled towards
each party. What are those obligations, and how they may be
affected by the misconduct of the belligerents, has been frequently made a subject of decision in this Court.
.Thus where the commander of a French privateer,
called
the Citizen Genet, having captured, as prize, on the high seas,
the sloop Betsey, sent the vessel into the port of Baltimore
and upon her arrival there, the owners of the sloop and cargo
filed a libel in the District Court of Maryland, claiming restitution, because the vessel belonged to subjects of Sweden, a neutral
power, and the cargo was owned jointly by Swedes, and by
citizens of the United States, also neutral ; it was held, that theDistrict Court ofMaryland had jurisdiction competent to inquire,
;ad to decide, whether in such case, restitution ought to be
VoL. IV.

9

IR5

i81g.
e

Divina
Pastora.

-CASES IN.THE SUPAME£ OOURT

.66
1819.

imade to the .claimants, or either of them, in whole or in part;
• that is, whether such restitution could be made consistently with
The Divina the law of nations, and the treaties and laws of the United
Ptstora.
States. Glass v. The Betsey, 3 Dall. 6. 16. This case has
been sometimes criticised as involving a denial of the unquestionable principle of public law, that the judicial cognizance of
prizes belongs exclusively to the tribunals of the captor's country, with the admitted exceptions of a violation of neutral sovereignty either in making the capture, or fitting oui the armament with which it is made, within the neutral territory. But,
as is very justly Qbserved by the Court in the case of the In•vincible, the. only point settled by the case of Glass v. The Bet.'
sci was, that the Courts of the neutral country have jurisdiction of captures made in violation of its neutrality, and the case
4vas sent back with a view thatthe District Court should exercise jurisdiction, subject, however, to the law of nations on this
,matter, as the rule to govern its decision. Ante, vol. I. p. 257.
So, also, it Was held, in the same case, that no foreign power
,an, of right, institute or erect any courtof judigature, of any
.ind, within the jurisdiction of the United States, but such only
as maybe warranted by, and be in pursuance of treaties: and
that the admiralty jurisdiction which had been exercised in the
United States by the consuls of France in the beginning of the
war' of 1793, not being so warranted, was illegal. Glass V.
The Betsey, 3-Dali. 6. 16.
The District Courts of the United States have no jurisdiction
onia libel for damages for the capture of a vessel as prize by
the- commissioned cruizer of a belligerent power, although the
captured vessel is alleged to belong, to citizens of the United
States, and although the capturing iessel and her commander
be foud and proceeded against within the' jurisdiction of the
Courft;'.the captured vessel having been captured'and carried
infrd tpLsidia of the captdrs. The United States v. Peters, 3,
Dell. 121.
The capture of a vessel from a belligerent power, by a citizen of the. United -States, under: a commission from another belligerent power, (though the captor sets up an act of expatriation, not carried into effect by a departure from the Uniteg

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1819.
States, with an intention to settle permanently inanother country,) is an unlawful capture, and the Courts of the United States
to the original owner. Talbot V.Janson, The Divina
will decree restitution
~Pastora.
capture by a citizen of a neutral state,
A
164.
133.
3 Dall.
who sets up an act of expatriation to justify it, is unlawful,
where the removal from his own country was by sailing, cure
dblo et culpa, in the capacity of a cruizer against friendly powers. lb. 153. Qucere, Whether a citizen of the United States,
expatriating himself according to the law of a particular State
of the Union, of which he is also a citizen, can be considered
as having lost the character of a citizen of the United States,
so as to be authorized to capture under a foreign commission
the property of powers in amity with the United States ? lb.
153. A capture by a vessel, built, owned, and fitted out as a
vessel of war, in a neutral country, is unlawful, and restitation of the property captured by such vessel, will be decreed
by the Courts of the neutral country, if brought within its itrisdiction. lb. 155. 167. Every illegal act committed on the
high seas, does not amount to piracy. A capture, although not
piratical, may be illegal, and of such a natureas to induce the
Court to award restitution. lb. 154. 160. A capture made
by a lawfully commissioned cruizer through the medium and
instrumentality of a neutral, who had no right to cruize, is unlawful;. and the property captured will be restored by the neu.
tral state, if brought within its jurisdiction. lb. 155. 167.
The exemption of belligerent captures on the high seas, from
inquiry by neutral courts, belongs only to a belligerent
vessel of war, lawfully commissioned; and if a vessel claims.
that exemption, it is the duty of the Court, upon application,
to make inquiry, rhether she is the vessel she pretends to be. lb.
159. If, -upon such inquiry, it appears, that the vessel pretending to be a lawful cruizer, is really not such, but uses acolourable commission for the purposes of plunder, she is to,
be considered by the law of nations, so far at least, as the title
of property or right of possession is concerned, in the same
light, as having no commission at all. lb. Prim4facie, all pira.
,'ies and trespasses committed against the generallaw of na.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
*jl9. :tions, are inquirable, and ziay be proceeded against, in any
v.
nation where no special exemption can be maintained either by
The Divina the general law of nations, or by some treaty which forbids or
Pastora.
restrains it. lb. 160.
Where a vessel belonging to one belligerent was captured by
another belligerent, and being abandoned on the high seas by
the captors, to avoid the necessity of wealcening their force by
manning the prize, was found and taken possession of by citizens of the United States, and brought into a port of this country, and libelled in the District Court for salvage ; it was held,
that :the District Court had jurisdiction upon the subject of salvage, and, consequently, a 'power of deter~ining to whom the
residue of the prbperty, after'payment of salvage, ought to be
M'Donough et at- v. The Mary Ford, 3 Dall.
delivered.
188. 198. In this case the captors acquired, immediately on
the capture, such a right as no jieutral nation could justly impugn or destroy ; and it could not be said by the Court, that
the abandonment of the captured vessel revived the interest of
the original proprietors. Onethird of the value of the piroperty was, therefore, decreed to the neutral salvors, and the residue restored to the captors. lbA. This case has been sometimes
supposed to involve the inconsistency of a neutral tribunal assuming jurisdiction of the question of-prize, or no prize, as an
incident to that of salvage. But an attentive examination of the
case will show that this h a mistaken supposition. The Colit
do not enter into the question of prize between the belligerents,
but decree the residue to the late possessor : thus, making the
fact of possession as between the belligerent parties, -the criterion of right. Those points which could be disposed of
without any reference to the legal exercise of the rights of
war, the Court proceed to decide ; but those which necessarily involve the question of prize, or no prize, they remit to
another tribunal. L'Invincible, ante, vol. I. p. 259.
Where the vessel-which captured the prize in question, had
been built in the United States, with the express view of being
employed as a privateer, in case the then existing differences
between Great Britain and the United States should terminate

OF THE UNITED STATES.

69

1319.
in war ; some of her equipments were calculated for w.ar,
subsequently
;
she
was
ships
by
merchant
used
though frequently
Divine
0 powers, and by him The
sold to a subject of one of the belligerent
Pastor'a.
carried to a port of his own country, where she was completely armed, equipped, and furnished with a commission, and afterwards sailed on a cruize, and captured the prize: It was held,
that this was not an illegal outfit in the United States, so as to
invalidate the capture, and give their Courts jurisdiction to restore to.the original owner the captured property. Moodie v.
The Alfred, 3 Dali. 307.. A mere replacement of the force of
a privateer in a neutral port is not such an outfit and equipment
as will invalidate the captures made by her, and give the Courts
of the neutral' cbuntry jurisdiction to restore the captured property to the original owner. Moodie v. The Phoebe Anne,
3 Dal. 319.
A vessel and.cargo belonging to citizens of the United States
was captured as a prize by a cruizer belonging to one of the
belligerent powers on the .high seas, and run on shore within the
territory of the United States, by the prize master, to avoid recapture by the other belligerent, and abandoned by the prize
crew ; the vessel and cargo were then attached by the original
owner, and an agreement was entered into by the parties, that
they should be sold-and the proceeds paid into the District
Court, to abide the issue of a suit commenced by the owner
against the cantors for damages : Held, that they were responsible for the full valuo of the property injured or destroyed,
and that whatever might originally have been the irregularity
in attaching the captured vessel and cargo, it was obviated by
the cofsent of the captors that the prize should be sold, and that thq
proceeds of the sale should jibide the issue of the suit. Del Col v.
Arnold, 3 Dali. 233. The consistency of the Court in this
case cannot be vindicated with the same facility as in that of the
Mary Ford. " We are, however, induced to believe, from several circumstances, that we have transmitted to us but an imperfect sketch of the decision in that case. The brevity with
.which a case is reported, which we are informed, hadbeen
argued successively at two terms, by men of the first legal talents, necessarily suggests this opinion; and when we reer

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
to the case of the Cassius, (The United States v. Peters,) debut the term preceding, and observe the correctness
Tije DiVina with which the law applicable to this case, in principle, is laid
Pastora
down in the recitals to the prohibition, we are confirmed in
1819.

Scided

that opinion. But the case itself (that of Del Col v. Arnold)
furnishes additional confirmation. There is one view of it in
which it is reconcilable to every legal principle. It appears,
that when pursued by the Terpsichore, the Grand Sachem 'was
wholly abandoned by the prize crew, and left in possession of
one of the original American crew, and a passenger ; that, in
their possession, she was driven within our territorial limits,
and was actually on shore when the prize crew resumed their
possession, and plundered and scuttled her. Supposing this to
have been a case of total derelict, (an opinion, which, if incorrect, was only so on a point of fact, and one in support of which
much might have been said, as the prize crew had no proprietary interest, but only a right founded on the fact of possession,)
it would follow, that the subsequent resumption of possession
was' tortious, and subjected the parties to damages. On the
propriety of the seizure of the Industry, to satisfy those damages, the Court give no opinion, but place the application of
the proceeds of the sale of this vessel, on the ground of consent; a principle, on the correctness of the application of
which to that case, the report affords no ground to decide."
The Invincible, ante, vol. 1. p. 259. 260.
A public vesse) of war belonging to a foreign sovereign at
peace 'with the United States, coming into our ports, and demeaning herself in a friendly manner, is exempt from the jurisdiction of the Courts of the country. The Exchange, 7
Cranch, i 16. lf there beno prohibiti6n, the ports of a friendly
nation'are considered as open to.the public ships of all other
nations with whom it is at peace, and they enter 'such ports,
and remain in them under the protection of the government bf
the place. 1b. 141.' Whether the public ships of war enter
the ports of another friendly nation, under the license implied
by the absence of any prohibition, or under an express stipulation by treaty, they are equally exempt from the local jurisdiction. 16. 141. Where the private vessel of one nnation

OF THE UJNITED STATES.

71

1819.
enter the ports of another, under a general implied permissibn
only, they are not exempt from the local jurisdiction. lb. 143.
DPia
The sovereign of the place is capable of destroying the impli- _Tht
Pastora.
cation, under which national ships of war, entering the ports
of a friendly power, open for their reception, are considered
as exempted by the'consent of that power from its jurisdiction.
He may claim and exercise. jurisdiction over them, either by
employing fqrce, or by subjecting such vessels to the ordinary
tribunals. lb. 146. But until such power-be expressly exerted, those general provisions which are descriptive of the ordinary jurisdiction of the judicial tribunals, and give an individual, whose property has been wrested from him, -aright 'to
claim that property in the Courts of the country where it is
found, ought not to be so construfd as to give them jurisdiction
in a caTe, in which the sovereign power has impliedly consented to waive its jurisdiction. lb. 146. Upon these grounds it
was determined, in this case, that a public vessel of war, belonging to the emperor Napoleon, which had before been the
property of a citizen of the United States, and, as alleged,
wrongfully seized by the French, coming into our ports, and demeaning herself peaceably, could not be reclaimed by the foriner owner in the tribunals of this country. .lb.
The general rule as to the prize jurisdiction is, that the trial
of captures made on the high seas,jure billi, by a duly commissioned vessel of War, whether from an enemy or a neutral,
belongs exclusively to the Courts of that nation to which the
captor belongs. The Alerta, 9 Cranch, 359. 364. But to this
rule there are exceptions as firmly established as the rule itself.
If the capture be made within the territorial limits of a neutral
country, into which the prize is brought, or by a privateer
which has been illegally equipped in sueh neutral country, the
prize Courts of such neutral cou ntry not only possess the power,
but it is their duty to restore the property so illegally captured
to the owner. lb. 364. Talbot v. Janson, 3 Dall. 133. lb.
288. note. A neutral nation may, if so disposed, without a
breach of its neutral character, grant permission to both belligerents to equip their vessels of war within its territory. But
without such permission, the subjects of the belligerent powers
have no right to equip vessels, or to augment their force,, either

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1819.
The Divin
Pastora.

with arms, or with men, within the territory of the neutral nation. The Alerts, 9 Cranch, 365. All captures: made, by
means of such equipments of vessels, or augmentation of their
force witbih the neutral territory, are illegal in respect to the
.neutral nation, and -it is competent for its courts to punish the
offenders, and in case the prizes. taken by them are brought
infra prasidia, to order them 'to be restored. lb. Even if
there were.any doubt as to the rule of 'the law of nations on
the subject, the illegality of equipping a foreign vessel of war
within .theterritory of the United States, is declared by the act
of June 5th, 1794, c. 226. (1) and the power and duty of the
proper court of the United States, to restore the prizes made
in violation of that act, is clearly recognized. Ib. To constitute an illegal equipment or augmentation of the force of a vessel within the territory of the United States, it is immaterial
whether the persons enlisted are native citizens, or foreigners
domiciled within the United States. Neither the law of nations,
nor the act of congress, recognizes any distinction in this respect, except a's to subjects of the foreign state in whose service
they are so enlisted, being transiently within the United States..
lb. 366.
'During the late war between the United States and Great
Britain, a French privateer, called the Invincible, and duly com-missioned, was captured by a British cruizer, afterwards recaptured by a private armed vessel of the United States ; again cap:tured by a squadron of British frigates ; again recaptured by another United States privateer, and brought into a port of the United
States for adjudication. Restitution on payment of salvage was
claimed by the French consul on behalf of the owners of the
Invificible. A claim was also interposed by citizens of the
United States, who alleged, that their proper'ty had been unlawfully taken by the Invincible, betore her first capture, on
the high seas, and prayed an indemnification from the proceeds.
Restitution -to, the original French owner was decreed by-the"
.CircuitCo rt, which-decree was affirmed in this Court; and it
was determined that the tribunals of this country have no juris
diction to redress any supposed torts committed on the high
(I) This act was made perpetual by that of April 24th, 1800, c. 189. which was
.repealed, and all laws respecting our neutral relations wer6 incorporated into on,
bythe act of the 20th of April, 1818, c. 93.

73

01' TE UNITED STATES.
,eas upon the property of our citizens, by a cruizer regularly
commissioned by a foreign and friendly power, except where
such cruizer has been fitted out in violation of our neutrality.
L'Invincible, ante, vol. 1. p. 238. S. C. 2 Gallis. 29.
Vide infra, the. cases of the Estrella, and the .Tleustra Senora

de la Caradid, in which the same principles which are collected in this note werq applied to captures of Spanish property
by Venezuelean and Carthagenian privateers, and the property
was restored to the original owners, or to the captors, accordingas the capture had, or had not bedi made in violation of our
neutrality.

For the different public acts by which the government of the,
United States has recognized the existence of a civil war between Spain and her American colonies, see the Appendix,
note II.

tEVANS against PHILLIPS.
(PRAcTIcE.)

A writ of 'error will not lie on a judgment of nonsuit.

ERROR

to the Circuit Court of New-York.

Mr. D. B. Ogden moved to dismiss the writ' of
error in this case, upon the 'ground that the plaintiff
had submitted to a nonsuit in the Court below, upon
which no writ of error will lie.
The Court directed the writ of error to be dismissed.
VOL. IV.

10

1819..
Evans
V.

Phillips.

