OF THE UNITED STATES.

ant. He has had the full benefit of the law, so far
as the facts of his case would warrant the Court jn
applying it in his favour.
Judgment affirmed.

isig.
0
Eliason
V.
Henshaw;

(COMMON LAW.)

ELIASON et

al. v.

HENSHAW.

Where. A. offered to purchase of B. two or three hundred barrels of
flour, to be delivered at Georgetown, (District of Columbia,) by the
first water, and to pay for the same 9 dollars 50dents per barrel;
and to the letter, containing this offer, required an answer by the
returnof the wagon by which the letter was sent. This wagon was
at that time in the service. of B., and employed by him in conveying flour frem his mill to Harper's Ferry; near to which place A.
then was. His offer was accepted by B., in a letter sent by the first
regular mail to Georgetown, and received by A. at that place; but
no answer was ever sent to Harper's Ferry. Held, that this acceptance, communicated at a place different from tbAt indicated by
A., imposed no obligation binding upon him.
An offer of a bargain, by one person to another, imposes no obligation
upon the former, unless it is accepted by the latter according to
the terms on which the offer was made. Any qualification of, or
departure from, those terms, invalidates the offer, unless; the same
be agreed to by the party who made it..
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Columbia.
This cause was argued by Mr. Jones and. Mr. Key,

Peb. 17th.

for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Swann for the
defendant in error.
Mr. Justice WASHINGTON delivered the opinion of Feb. 2Oh.
the Court. This is an action, brought by the defendVOL. IV.

29

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1819.
Eliason

V.

Henshaw.

ant in error, to recover damages for the non-performance of an agreement, alleged to have been entered
into by the plaintiffs in error, for the purchase of a
quantity of flour at a stipulated price. The evidence
of this contract given in the Court below, is stated in
a bill of exceptions, and is to the following effect: A
letter from the plaintiffs to the defendant, dated the
10th of February, 1813, in which they say: " Capt.
Cona informs us that you have a quantity of flour to
dispose of. We are in the .practice of purchasing
flour at all times, in Georgetown, and will be glad
to serve you, either in receiving your flour in store,
when the markets are dull, and disposing of it when
the markets will answer to advantage, or we will purchase at market price when delivered; if you are disposed to engage two or three hundred barrels at present, we will give you 9 dollars 50 cents per barrel.
deliverable the first water in Georgetown, or any service we can. Ifyou should want an advance, please
write us by mail, and will send you part of the money
in advance." In a postscript they add,'" Please write
by return ofwagon whether you accept our offer." This
letter was sent from the house at which the writer
then was, about two miles from Harper's Ferry, to
the defendant at his mill, at Mill Creek, distant about
20 miles from Harper's Ferry, by a wagoner then employed by the defendant to haul flour from his mill to
Harper's Ferry, and then about to return home with
his wagon. He delivered the letter tothe defendant
on the 14th of the same month, to which an answer,
dated the succeeding day, was written by the defendant, addressed to the plaintiffs at Georgetown,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

227

and despatched by a mail which left Mill Creek ,on the 19th, being -the first regular mail from that place - Eliason
v.
to Georgetown. In this letter the writer says; " Your
Henshaw.
CheMr.
-by
me
handed
was
favour of the IOth inst.
noweth last evening. I take the earliest opportunity
to answer it by post. Your proposal toengage 300
barrels of flour, delivered in Georgetown, by the first
water, at 9 dollars 60 cents per barrel,'I accept, and
shall send on the flour by the first boats. that pass
down from where my flour is stored on the river; as
to any advance, will be unnecessary-' payment on delivery is all that is required."
01 the 25th of the same month, the plaintiffs addressed to the defendant an answer to the above,dated
at Georgetown, in which they acknowledge the receipt of it, and add, " Not having heard from you
before, had juite given over the expectation of getting your flour, more particularly as we requested an
answer by return of wagon the next day, and as we
did not get it, had bought all we wanted."
The vagoner, by whom the plaintiffs' first letter
was sent, informed them; when he received it, that
he should not probably return to Harper's Ferry, and
lie did not in fact return in the defendant's employ.
The flour was sent down to Georgetown some time
in March, and the delivery of it to the plaintiffs was
regularly tendered and refused.
Upon this evidence, the defendants in the Court
below, the plaintiffs in error, moved that Court to instruct the jury, that, if they believed'the said evidence to be true, as stated, the plaintiff in this action
was not entitled to recover the amount of the price of

228

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the 300 barrels of flour, at the rate of 9 dollars 60
per barrel. The Court being divided in opinion, the instruction prayed for was not given.
V.
Heashaw.
The question is, whether the Court below ought
to have given the instruction to the jury; as the same
was prayed for ? If they ought, the judgment, which
was in favour of the plaintiff in that Court, must be
.reversed.
It is an undeniable principle of the law of contracts, that an offer of a bargain by one person to
another, imposes no obligation upon the former, until it is accepted by the latter, according to the terms
in which the offer was made. Any qualification of,
or departure from, those terms, invalidates the offer,
unless the same be agreed to by the person who
made it. Until the terms of the agreement have received the assent of both parties, the negotiation is
open, and imposes no obligation upon either.
In this case, the plaintiffs in error offered to purchase from the defendant two or three hundred barrels of flour, to be delivered at Georgetown, by the
first water, and to pay for the same 9 dollars 50 cents
per barrel. To the letter containing this offer, they
required an answer by the return of the wagon, by
which the letter was despatched. This wagon was,
at that time, in the service of the defendant, and employed by him in hauling flour from his mill to Harper's Ferry, near to which place the plaintiffs then
were. The meaning of the writers was obvious.
They could easily calculate by the usual length of
time which was employed by this wagon, in travelling from Harper's Ferry to Mill Creek, and back
1819.

kcents
Rliason

OF THE UNITED STATES,

again with a load of flour, about what time they

229
1,19.

should receive the desired
answer,
•
-. and, therefore, it
Elimson"
was entirely unimportant, whether it was sent by
that, or another wagon, or in any other manner, Henshaw.
provided it was sent to Harper's Ferry, and was not
delayed beyond the time which was ordinarily employed by wagons engaged in hauling flour from the
defendant's mill to Harper's Ferry. Whatever uncertainty there might have been as to the time when
the answer would be received, there was none as to
the place to which it was to be sent; this was distinctly indicated by the mode pointed out for the conveyance of the answer. The place, therefore, to which
the answer was to be sent, constituted an essential.
part of the plaintiff's offer.
It appears, however, from the bill of exceptions,
that no answer to this letter was at any time sent to
the plaintiffs, at Harper's Ferry. Their offer, it is
true, was accepted by the terms of a letter addressed
Georgetown, and received by the plaintiffs at that
place; but an acceptance communicated at a place
different from that pointed out by the plaintiffs, and
forming a part of their proposal, imposed no obligalion binding upon them, unless they had acquiesced
in'it, which they declined doing.
It is no argument, that an answer was received at
Georgetown; the plaintiffs in error had a right to
dictate the terms upon which they would purchase
the flour, and, unless they were complied with, they
were not. bound by them. All their arrangements
may have been made with a view to the circumstance of place, and they were the only judges of its

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

230
1819.
Somerville

V.

Hamilton.

importance. There was, therefore, no contract concluded between these parties, and the Court ought,

therefore, to have given the instruction to the jury,

,which was asked for.

Judgment reversed. Cause remanded, with directions to award a venirefacias de novo.

(COMMON

SOMERVILLE'S

LAW.)

Executors v.

HAMILTON.

Where the defendant in ejectment, for lands in North Carolina, has
been in possession under title in himself, and those inder whom he
claimed, for a period of seven years, or upwards, such possession is,
by the statute of limitations of North Carolina, a conclusive legal
bar against the action by an adverse claimant, unless such claimant
brings himself by positive proof within some of the disabilities provided for by that statute. In the absence of such proof, the title
shown by the party in possession is so complete as to prove, in an
action upon a covenant against incumbrances, that a recovery obtained by the adverse claimant was not by a paramount legal title.
Quare,Whether in an action upon a covenant against incumbrances,
the plaintiff is bound to show that the adverse claimant recovered,
in the suit by which the plaintiff is evicted, by title paramount, or
whether the recovery itself is primd fade evidence of that fact?

was an action of covenant brought in the
Circuit -Court of North Carolina, by the executors of
John Somerville, the younger, against John Hamil-.
ton, on the following covenants in a deed of land. in
North Carolina, from Hamilton to John Somerville,
the elder, dated April 15th, 1772. The grantor coTHIS

