CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

230
1819.
Somerville

V.

Hamilton.

importance. There was, therefore, no contract concluded between these parties, and the Court ought,

therefore, to have given the instruction to the jury,

,which was asked for.

Judgment reversed. Cause remanded, with directions to award a venirefacias de novo.

(COMMON

SOMERVILLE'S

LAW.)

Executors v.

HAMILTON.

Where the defendant in ejectment, for lands in North Carolina, has
been in possession under title in himself, and those inder whom he
claimed, for a period of seven years, or upwards, such possession is,
by the statute of limitations of North Carolina, a conclusive legal
bar against the action by an adverse claimant, unless such claimant
brings himself by positive proof within some of the disabilities provided for by that statute. In the absence of such proof, the title
shown by the party in possession is so complete as to prove, in an
action upon a covenant against incumbrances, that a recovery obtained by the adverse claimant was not by a paramount legal title.
Quare,Whether in an action upon a covenant against incumbrances,
the plaintiff is bound to show that the adverse claimant recovered,
in the suit by which the plaintiff is evicted, by title paramount, or
whether the recovery itself is primd fade evidence of that fact?

was an action of covenant brought in the
Circuit -Court of North Carolina, by the executors of
John Somerville, the younger, against John Hamil-.
ton, on the following covenants in a deed of land. in
North Carolina, from Hamilton to John Somerville,
the elder, dated April 15th, 1772. The grantor coTHIS

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1819.
venanted with the grantee, his heirs, and assigns, that
the premises "then were, and so forever thereafter 'Somerville
v.
should remain, free and clear of and from all former
Hamilton.
title
and
right
and other gifts, bargains, sales, dower,
of dower, judgments, executions, title, troubles,
charges, and incumbrances whatsoever, done, committed, or suffered, by ihe said John Hamilton, or any
other person or persons whatsoever, the quit rent afterwards to grow due to Earl Grenville, his heirs, &c.
only excepted." There was also a covenant for a
general warranty. Hamilton claimed the lands under a deed, dated the 4th of October, 1771, from one
Stewart, who was then in possession, and who delivered possession to Hamilton. John Somerville, the elder,
conveyed the same to his son, John Somerville, the
younger, by deed dated the 8th of September, 1777;
and Somerville, the younger, conveyed to one Whitmill Hill, by deed dated the 9th of October, 1795.
Y. Hill died on the 13th of October, 1797, having
by his last will devised the lands to his son Thbmas
B. Hill. The latter having entered under the devise, an action of ejectment was bro0ght against him
in the Superior Court of the State of North Carolina for Halifax district, on the 7th of June, 1804,.
for two hundred and fifty acres, parcel of the said
lands, by one Benjamin Sherrod, who, at the April
term, 1805, of the said Court, obtained a verdict
and judgment for the possession of the said two hundred and fifty acres of land, and was put in possession of the same. On the 2d of September, 1804,
Hamilton had notice from Somerville, the younger,
of the institution of this suit, but did not aid in the
defence. From the date of Stewart's deed to Ha-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

232
1819.

milton, (October 4th, 1771,) to the commencement
i
of this suit by Sherrod against Hill, on the 7th of
Somerville
V. June, 1804, the land in controversy was in the posHamilton. session of Hamilton, and of Somerville and the
Hills, claiming under Hamilton. On the 6th of November, 1806, Somerville, the younger, died, leaving
the plaintiffs executors of his last will and testament.
The above facts were found by a special verdict
in tile Circuit Court, and the case came before that
Court upon the special verdict at November term,
1816, when the judges differed in opinion upon the
following questions:
1. Whether the plaintiffs were bound to show that
Benjamin Sherrod recovered- against Thomas B."
Hill by title paramount to that derived fi'zm Hamilton ; or the recovery itself was prima facie evidence
of that fact ?
2. Whether the title shown by Thomas B. Hill
under Hamilton, was not so complete as to prove
that Sherrod's recovery could not have been by title
paramount ?
Which questions were thereupon certified to this
Court for decision.
Marc

1818.

6th,

The cause was argued at the last term by Mr.
Harper, for the plaintiffs," no counsel appearing for
the defendant.
a He cited Duffield v. Scott, 3 T. R. 374. Blasdale v. Babcock, i Johns. Rep. 517. Kip v. Bingham, 6 Johns. Rep. 158.
Bender v. Fromberger, 4 Dali. 436. Hamilton v. Cutts, 4 Mass.
Rep. 353.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

The opinion of the Court was delivered at the
present term by Mr. Justice STORY. '
Upon'the special verdict in this case, the judges in
in opinion on two points,
the Court below differed ~Feb.
'which are certified to this Court for a final decision:
1. Whether the plaintiffs were bound to show that
Benjamin Sherrod recovered against Thomas B.
Hill by title paramount to that derived from Hamilton, or the recovery itself was prima facie evidence,
of that fact?
2. Whether the title shown by Thomas B. Hill
under Hamilton was not so complete as to prove
that Sherrod's recovery could not be by title paramount ?
Upon the first point, this Court also is divided in
opinion' anO, therefore, no decision can be certified.
But as we are unanimous on the second point, and
an opinion on that finally disposes of the cause, it
will now be pronounced.
From the date of Stewart's deed to Hamilton, in
October, 1771, until the commencement of the suit
by Sherrod against Hill, in June, 1804, a period -of
thirty-three years, the land in controversy was in the
exclusive possession of Hamilton, and those deriving
title under him. A possession for such a length of
time, under title, was, by the statute of limitations
of North Carolina, a conclusive bar against any suit
by any adverse claimant, unless he was within some
one of the exceptions or disabilities provided for by
that statute.a The special verdict in this case does
a This statute, which was enacted in the year 1715, provides, (sec. 3.) "that no person or persons, or their heir-%
'V r. IV.0

2&0
1819.
Somerville

V.
Hamilton.
201h

CASES IN THIE SUPREME: COURT

234

not find either that Sherrod was or was not within.
those exceptions or disabilities. The case, therefore,
v.
stands, in this respect, purely indifferent. By the
Hamilton.
general principles of law, the party who seeks to
recover, upon the ground of his being Within some
exception of the statute of limitations, is bound to
establish such exception by proof, for it will not be
presumed by the law. In the suit by Sherrod against
Hill, it would have been sufficient for the defendant
to have relied upon the length of possession as a
statutable bar to the action ; and the burthen of proof
would have been upon Sherrod, to show that he was
excepted from its operation. By analogy to the rule
in that case, the proof of possession under title for
thirty-three years, was presumptive evidence, and,
in the absence of all conflicting evidence to remove
.the bar, conclusive evidence that the title of Hill,
1119.

Somevil

Somerville

which hereafter shall have any right or title to any lands, tenements, or hereditaments, shall theretinto enter or make claim,
but within seven years after his, her, or their right or title shall
descend 'or accrue ; and in default thereof, such person or persons so not entering or making default, shall be utterly excluded
and disabled from any'entry or claim thereafter to be made."
The 4th section contains the usual savings in favour of infants,
&c., who are authorized, within three years after their disabilities shall cease "to commence his or her suit, or make his
or her entry." Persons beyond seas are allowed eight years
after their return: "but that all possessions held without suing
ouch claim-as aforesaid, shall be a perpetual bar against all and
every manner of persons whatever, that the expectation of
heirs may not, in a short time, leave much land unpossessed,
and titles so perplexed'that no man will know from whom to
take or buy land." Vide Patton's lessee v. Easton, ante, vol. I.

.476.

OF THE UNITED STATE$.

under Hamilton, was so complete, that Sherrod's reebvery could- not °have been by title.paramount.

234
1819.
Bank of

Columbia

Certificate according!y.

(co. s-rTUTlnfAr, LAW.)

The.BANK OF COLUMBIA V. OKELY.
The act of Assembly of Maryland, of IV193, c. 30, incorporating the
Bank of Columbia, and giving to the corporation a summary
process by execution; in the nature of an attachment, against itz
debtors who have, by an express consent, in writing, made the
bonds, bills, or notes by them drawn or endorsed, negotiable at.the
Bank, is not repugnant to the constitution of the United States or
of Maryland.
But the last provision in the act of incorporation, which gives this
summary process to the Bank is no part of its corporate franchises,
and may be repealed or altered at pleasure by the legislative will.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of
Columbia.
This was a proceeding in the Court below, under
the act of Assembly of Maryland, of 1793, c. SO.
incorporating the Bank of Columbia, the 14th section of which is in these words:
"And whereas it is absolutely necessary that debts
due to the said Bank should be punctually paid, to
enable the Directors to calculate with certainty and
precision on meeting the demands that.may be made
upon them: Be it enacted, that whenever any person or persons are indebted to the said Bank for moneys borrowed by them, or for bonds, bills or notes

okely

