OF THE UNITED STATES.
819.
would have no means of ascertaining the offence
until after such arrival.
The Lang
In respect to the other point, it is a general rule, don Cheves
that any person may seize any property forfeited to
the use of the government, either by the municipal
law, or by the law of prize, for the purpose of ehforcing the forfeiture. And it depends upon the go.
vernment itself, whether it will act upon the seizure.
If it adopts the acts of the party, and proceeds to enforce the forfeiture by legal process, this is a sufficient
recognition and confirmation of the seizure, and is of
equal validity in law, with an original authority given
to the party to make the seizure. The confirmation
acts retroactively, and is equivalent to a command.

Decree affirmed, with costs,

(PRhaZ.)

The LANGDON CHEVES.-LAMS, Claimant.
A question of fact upon a seizure in port, as a droit of admiralty, for
trading with the enemy, and using his license. The circumstance of
the vessel. having been sent into an enemy's port, for adjudication,
and afterwards permitted to resume her voyage, held to raise a violent presumption that she had a license, which the claimant not
having repelled by explanatory evidence, condemnation was pro-

nounced.
APPEAL

from the Circuit Court of Rhode-Island.

This cause was argued by Mr. Hunter, and Mr.

Feb. 3d.

'104
1819.
The Langdon Cheves.
Feb. 16th.

CASES IN' THE SUPREME COURT

lWheaton for the appellant and clairnant,a and by the
Attorney General for the United States.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the
Court. This case differs in no essential respect, from
that of the Caledonian. The' brig sailed from the
United States on a voyage to Lisbon, with a cargo of
provisions, in May, 1813, and was captured by a
British sloop of war, and sent into Bermuda, where
she was either not proceeded against as prize, or was
acquitted on trial; and after a detention of about six
weeks, was permitted to resume her original voyage;
and on the'return voyage fiom Lisbon, with a cargo
of salt, was, on her arrival at Newport, on the 16th
of December, 1813, seized by_ the collector of that
port, as forfeited to the United States jure belli, for
using a British license, and trading with the enemy.
There is no positive proof, that the brig had a British license on board ; but, we think, that under the,
circumstances, there arises a violent presumpt ion that
she had such a license, and that the burthen of proof
to repel this presumption rests on the claimant. He
has not attempted this in the slightest degree, there
being a total absence of all evidence in his favour; anod,
therefore, as the case remains with all its original
imperfections, the decree of the Circuit Court is
affirmed, with costs.
Decree affirmedl,.with costs.
a They cited the Imina, 3 Rob. 167. The Lisette. 6 Rob.
387. The Joseph, 8 Cranch, 4-51. to show, that the delictum
of contraband, of trading with the enemy, and navigating under
bis license, are all purged by the termination of the voyage.

