CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1819.
(chANcEaRy.)

U. States
V.

Howland.

The

UNITED STATES V. HOWLAND

and

ALLEN.

The Circuit Court has jurisdiction, on a bill in equity filed by the
United States against the debtor of their debtor, they claiming a
priority under the act of 1799, c. 128. s. 65. notwithstanding the
local law of the State where the suit is brought allows a creditor to
proceed against the debtor of lis debtor, by a peculiar process at
law.
The Circuit Courts of the Union have Chancery jurisdiction in every
State; they have the same Chancery powers, and the same rules of
decision in all the States.
The United States are not entitled to priority over other creditors, under the act of 1799, c. i28. s.- 65. upon the ground of the debtor
having made an assignment for the benefit of creditors, unless it is
proved, that the debtor has made an assignment of ALL his property.
-Wherethe deed of assignment conveys only the property
mentioned
Jn the schedule annexed, and the schedule does not purport to contain all the property of the party who made it, the onus probandiis
thrown on the United States to show that the assignment embraced
all the property of the debtor.
Upon a bill filed by the United States, proceeding as ordinary creditors against the debtor of their debtor for an account, 4'c. the original debtor to the United States ought to be made a party, and the
account taken between him and his debtor.

from the Circuit Court of .Massachusetts.
This was a bill in equity filed in the name of the
APPEAL

United States,' in the Court below, stating, that se-

veral judgments bad been obtained by the United
States on duty bonds, against Shoemaker & Travers,
and Jacob Shoemaker and their sureties, amounting
tothe sum of 5,292 dollars•; which judgments were
obtained in the District Court. of Pennsylvania, at
the February term of 1808, and upon which execu-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

109

isig.
-dons had issued, which remained in. the marshal's
"-"
the
of
execution
the
States
after
that
U.
hands unsatisfied;
V
duty bonds, but before they were payable, to -wit),
and
on the 6th of December, 1806, Shoemaker
Travers became insolvent within the true intent and'
meaning of the act " to regulate the collection of
duties on imports and tonnage :" that on the first of
February, 1808, goods, effects, money and credit of
Shoemaker & Travers, to the amount of 6,000 dolL
lars, had come to the hands of Howland, & Allen,
which, the bill alleged, they refused to subject to the
executions of the United States; it prayed, that they
might be compelled' to account for, and deliver up,
these goods, &c. in satisfaction of the claim of the
United States, and for an injunction in the mean time
to restrain them from disposing of, paying away, or
in any manner applying the goods, &c. aforesaid, to
any other object. The injunction was, accordingly,
awarded. An amendment to the bill stated, that after
the. debts to the United States adcrhed by bond as
aforesaid, and. after Shoemaker & Travers Ihad become- insolvent, to wit, on the 6th day of December, 1806, they made a voluntary assignment- by deed,
of all their property, for the benefit of their creditors,
within the true intent and meaning of the act of.Congress aforesaid, :and an exemplified copy of -the deed
of assignment was annexed tothe amended bill. The
deed recited, that the parties being justly indebted to
divers persons, whose names are mentioned in a list
thereto annexed, and unable :at present to pay the
said debts, they assign to trustees therein mentioned,

CASES I 'THE

,Bo.,

SUPREME COURT

all and singular, the estate and effects contained in
a schedule annexed, in trust, to pay the debts due
r
'U.'States t e.....
V. rthe ennmeated creditors, and first, that due to the
IiWIand. United States. The schedule was entitled "'Schedule of property assigned by Shoemaker'& Travers,
and Jacob Shoemaker, to the creditors 'f Shoemaker and Travers," and contained many items of
property, and among others, the proceeds of the cargo
of the brig- Deborah, which vessel was then at sea i
and belonging to Howland & .Allen, but had beep'_'
chartered by Shoemaker & Travers. Howland,&.
Allen, by their answer, admitted the receipt, on the 1st
of January, 1807, of 4,000 Spanish dollars, the property of Shoemaker & Travers, and which the master of the Deborah had received in Guadulope, for
Shoemaker & Travers; but insisted on their right to
apply it to an unliquidated debt of-greater amount
(composed of freight, demurrage, damages, &c. the
particulars of which are detailed by the answer), due 4
as alleged, from Shoemaker & Travers to. them, and
applied by an entry in their books, to. the credit of
Shoemaker & Travers, at-the time of the receipt of
the money aforesaid. They iInsisted, therefore, on
the right of retaining it. To this'answeri there was
a general -replication, and the depositions of several
witnesses were taken.
The Court below decreed, that the .said Shoemaker
& Travers were, and are, indebted to the. United
States, and that they became insolvent, and made an
assignment as alleged in the bill, and that there was
an outstanding unsettled demand existing in their
favour, at the time of their insolvency, against the-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

defendants, arising from the voyage of the brigantine
unsettled and unpaid, but
Deborah, and which is still
•
the Court is not satisfied that the defendants, being
by law liable to
merely debtors to said insolvents, are
this process, and thereupon decree, that the said bill
be dismissed. From this decree the present appeal
was taken.
The Attorney General, for the appellants, argued,
I. That the prior right of the United States attached
to all the property of Shoemaker & Travers, on the
6th of December, 1806, the time of their insolvency,
and the date of the deed of assignment from them.
It is immaterial whether the priority of the United.
States, in any case, be asserted under the act of 1797,
c. 368. s. 5. or under that of 1799, c. 128. s. 65.
rhe decisions, as to this point, under the one statute,
are applicable to the other. It is-insisted, that this is
one of the cases specified by Congress, in which the
.debts due to the United States are to be first satisfied; a case in which the debtor, not having sufficient property to pay all his debts, has made a volun.
tary assignment thereof, for the benefit of- his creditors. This is the allegation of the bill, and it is supported by the deed itself. Although the granting
clause does jnot literally express it to include all the
property of the debtors, yet the clause which gives
the power to sell, by using the- words " all the property of them, the said Shoemaker & Travers, and
Jacob Shoemaker," clearly. shows, that the assignment was intended to convey all their property. 'The
very objects of the deed, as set forth in: the recitaL

1819.
U. States

V.

reb.

4tlt.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

112
1819.
U. States

aids this constructin.-2. If, then, the priority of
the United States has attached, a Court of Equity is

V. ,the
lowland.

proper forum in which it should be asserted.

trust exists, and an account is to be taken.

A

The

Court of Chancery is the only tribunal that can enforce the trust, and take the account, having also the
power of calling all the parties before it. Nor are
the Chancery powers of the Circuit Court at all affected by the statute of Massachusetts of 1794, c.
64., giving a peculiar process, in the nature of a foreign attachment, by which the creditor may attach
in the hands of the debtor of his debtor. The powers and practice of the Circuit Courts, in Chancery
cases, are not to be controlled by the local laws of
the states where those Courts sit. They are the
same throughout the Union.-3. But even supposing
that the United States have no priority in this case;
they are, on the common footing of ordinary creditors, entitled to an account against Howland & Allen,
and to the payment of any sum which, on a settlement of such account, may be found due from them
to Shoemaker & Travers.
Mr. Jones, contra, insisted, 1'That the act of Congress only extended to executors and administrators,
or to assignees, hut notto the debtors of the debtors
'of the United States. A Court of Equity cannot
have power to settle an account in this way, without
some statutory provision to authorize the proceeding.
The act of Congress gives no such authority. Shoemaker 8z Travers are not made parties to the bill,
and a decree between the United States and the pre-

118

OF THE UNITED STATES.

sen't defendants, would not bind in a suit between the
.defendants, and Shoemaker & Travers. Nor is it
too late, in the appellate Court, to take advantage of

1819.
U..States

V.

that Howland.
the want of parties.a 2. The cases are uniform,-

in order to enable the priority of the United States to
attach upon this ground, the assignment must be of
all the debtor's property.b

There is here no evi-

dence, either in the deed or in the depositions, that
this assignment embraced all the property of Shoe-

maker & Travers. The power to sell all the property, cannot be construed to enlarge the granting
clause, which merely refers to the property mentioned
in the schedule anexed to the deed. The defendants claim

'I

balance from Shoemaker & Travers,

and the right to apply the money received to. the liqui.
dation of that balance. They had acquired a special lien upon the money for the payment of this balance, long before the alleged act of insolvency. The
Court has repeatedly determined, that if before the
right of preference t(;
the United States has accrued
the debtor has made a bona fide conveyance of his
estate, or has mortgaged it, to secure a debt, the property is devested 'out of the debtor, and cannot be
made liable to the claim of the United States.c The
spirit of these decisions is, that any bona fide lien
will be protected, and not merely an.actual mortgage
or hypothecation. All specific liens are highly faa Russell v. Clark"s Executors, 7 Cranch, 98.

b United States v. Fisher, 2 Cranch, 358.
3 Cranch, 73.
c United States v. Fisher, 2 Cranch 390.

United States vi

Hooe,

llooe, 3 Cranch, t0.

VOL. IV.

15

Vnited States -.

114

CASES IN TIlE SUPREME COURT.

voured by the law; such as that of a factor who has
his money on the credit of the goods, or a
U'. States
,,. .ship-owner who having let out his ship for their transHowland. portatibn, has a right to the same security.
It is
true, that the Court has said, that the lien oi a judgment creditor shall not be. protected as against the
prior righit of the United States. But that is upon the
ground that the judgment is a mere general lien, not
affecting the jus disponendi of the owner of the property, nor vesting any specific interest in the, creditor.
.isig.

Sadvanced

Feb. 171t&.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the Court. The bill in this case was filed by
the United States in the Circuit Court for the district
of Massachusetts, to recover from the defendants a
sum of money in their hands, alleged to be the money of Jacob Shoemaker and Charles R. Travers,
merchants and partners, who are stated to be insol:vents, and to be indebted to the Uhited States for
duties.
It appears, that Shoemaker and Travers, on the
6th day of December, 1806, executed an indenture)
in which, reciting that they are justly indebted to divers persons, whose riames are expressed in a list
thereto annexed, and are unable at present to pay the
said debts, they assign to trustees therein-mentioned,
all and singular the estate and effects contained in a
sctiedule annexed, in trust, to pay the debt due to
the enumerated creditors, and first that due to the
United States. The schedule contains many items
of property, and among others the proceeds of the

OF THE UNITED STATES.
i819.
cargo of the'Deborah, then at sea. The Deborah
was the property of Howland and Allen ; and on U. States
V.
her coming into port, her, captain delivered to hier
Howland.
in
owners a sum of money which he had received
Gu~daloupe for Shoemaker and Travers, and which
is in the schedule annexed to the deed of assignment
already- mentioned. At the hearing the Circuit
Court dismissed the bill; in the opinion that it was
From this decree the United
not sustainable.
States have appealed to this Court, and now insist,
1. That it is a case in which a Court of Equity has
jurisdiction.
2. That the United States are entitled to priority,
.this being a case within the provisions of the act of
Congress.
On the first point no difficulty would be found, had The right of
the U. 8. 'to
bo A
in
the 'proper parties been before the Court. 'A trust proceed,
equity, in the

exists, and an account would be proper, to ascertain• Circuit
against

the sum due from Howland and Allen to Shoemaker

Court,
the
debtor of their
debtor, they

,and Travers. The case, even independent of these cairituap.r
acfConcircumstances, would be proper for a Court of Channot
bress,ofys
local law
cery, but for the act of Massachusetts, which allows a ofthe Massachiuallowingto
setts,creditor
creditor to sue the'•debtor of his debtor. Still the "re- the
,
p oce d
aethedebtnedy in Chancery, where all parties' may be brought orgainst
of his debtbefore the Court, is more complete and- adequate, as or, atha, by
the sum actually due may. be there, in such cases, cps.liapro-

ascertained With more certainty and .facility ; and as
the.Courts of the Union have a Chancery jurisdicact confers the
tion in every state, and the judiciary
•
. •
• same
same Chancery powers on all, and gives, the
rule of decision, its jurisdicdon in Massachusetts
must be the same as In other States.-

The Ci uit

tbsame
Chan-

ryjurisdiction,

and
powers,
rule of dcci.
every
in
sion,
state.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1819.

'.this being a case of which a Court of Chancery

may take'jurisdiction, we are next to inquire, whether it is one in which the United States are entitled
v.
Ilowland.
Where the to priority.
This depends on the fact whether the deed cf asU. S. clai,,
priority on the
ron fthe
by Shoemaker and Travers was
havh
dobtr
l as- sigament executed
ladn
The words of
property,thde
all a conveyance of all their property.
his
Sigimntof
o,essthgdc the deed, after *reciting the.mnotives which led to it,
oassinmt and the consideration, are " have granted, &c., and
wO,,thc, by these presents, do grant," &c., " all and singular
S
U. States

is thrown uIo,

the U. S. to

show that it
does include
all.

the estate and effeCts which is contained in the schedule hereunto annexed, marked A." The caption,
of the schedule is,. " schedule of property assigned
by Shoemaker and Travers, and Jacob, Shoema*ker, to the creditors of Shoemaker and Travers."
The deed then conYys only the property contained in the schedule, and the schedule does not purport
to contain all the property of the parties who made
it. In such a case, the ppdsumption must -be, that
there is property notcontained in the deed, unless the
contrary appears.' .The onus probandi is thrown on
the United States.
It is contended for the United States, that the
clause which gives the power to sell, by using the
words " all the property of them,'the said Shoemaker and Travers, and Jacob- Shoemaker," indicate
clearly that this deed does 'convey. all their property.
But these words are explained and limited by those
which follow, so as to show that the word " all" is
used in reference to the. schedule, and means all the
property in the schedule. The depositions do not
aid the deed. The question, whether the whole

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1819.
property is assigned, is still left to conjecture, and
of
the.
preference
the
which
on
fact
this being the
Not U .
United States is founded, ought to be proved.
being proved, the Court is of opinion, that thisis not Howland.
a case in which it can be claimed.
Upon . bill
But the United States are the creditors of Shoe- filed
by the U.
maker and Travers,
and have
right aad creito
creditors tos s.,
proceeding
make andTravrsand
ave a riht
ordinary
proceed against their property in the hands of How- risto det.
or of their
land and Allen. They have a right to so much of debtor, for en
&c.,
original
the
that property as remains after the debt due -to How- account,
debtor to
the

land and Allen shall be satisfied.

s. ought K.
But to ascertain u.
be made a par-

and tibacthis amount, an account between Howland and Allen ty,count
talent
hi.
between
taken,
should'be
States
United
the
to
and the debtors
and his debtor,
and the persons against whom the account is to be
taken should be parties to the suit. Although, if they
cannot be found within the district of Massachusetts,
the process of the Court cannot reach them, still
they may appear without coercion. At any rate,
an account ought to be taken, since the matter controverted between the parties, is more proper to be
stated by a master than to be decided in Court without stch report.
The decree is to be reversed, and the cause remanded, with directions to allow the plaintiffs to
amend the bill and make new parties., The United
States will, of course, be at liberty to take testimony, showing the assignment to be of all the property
of the parties who made it.a

This cause came on to be heard on. the
transcript of the record of the Circuit Court for the
district of Massachusetts, and was argued by counsel.
DECREE.

&.Mr.

Justice STORY did not sit in the CoaA below in this cause.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

On consideration whereof, this Court is of opinion,

fr1819.

IT. States

v.

Ilowland.

'

that the Circuit Court erred in dismissing the bill of

the plaintiffs, and that their decree ought to be reversed, nd it is hereby reversed and annulled : And
it is further ordered, that the said cause be remanded
to the said, Circuit Court, with directions to allow the
plaintiffs to amend their bill and make new parties.a
a Theact ofMarch3, 1797, c. 368. entitled," an actto-provide"
more effectually for'the settlement of accounts between the United States and receivers of public money," declares, (s. 5.) "That
where any revenue officer or other person, hereafter becoming
indebted to the United States, by bond or otherwise, shall become insolvent, or where the estate of any deceased debtor,
'in th6 hands of executors or administrators, shall be insufficient
to pay ailthe debts due from the deceased, the debt due to the
United States shall be first satisfied ; and the priority hereby
established shall be deemed to extend, as well to cases in which
a debtor, not having, sufficient property to pay all his debts,
shall make a voluntary assignment thereof,, or in which the es.tate and effects of an absconding, concealed, or absent debtor,
shall be attached by pi-ocess of.law, as to cases in which an
act of legal bankruptcy shall be committed."
. The collection act of March 2, 1799, c. 128. s. 65. provid~s, that " in all cases of insolvency, orwhere any estate in
the hands of executors, administrators, or assignees, shall be
insufficient to pay all the debts due from the deceased, the debt
or debts due to the United States, on any such bond or bonds,
shall be first satisfied ; and any executor, administrator, or
assignee, or other person, who shall pay any debt due by the
person or estate from whom, or for which,, they are acting,
previous to the debt or debts due to the United States from
such person or estate, being first duly satisfied and paid, shall
become answerable, in their own person or estate, for the debt
or debts so due to the United States, or so much thereof as-may
remain due and unpaid, in the proper Court having cognizance
thereof:" And, " Tha" if the principal in )ny bond whichshall be given to the United States for duties on goods, wares -

OF THE UNITED STATES.
or merchandize imported, or other penalty, either by himself,
his factor, agent, or other person, for him, shall be insolvent,
or if such principal being deceased, his or her estate and effects,
which shall come to the hands of his or her executors, administrators, or assignees, shall be insufficient for the payment of
his or her*debts, and if in either of the said cases, any surety
on the said bond or bonds, or the executors, administrators or
assignees of such surety, shall pay to the United States the
money due upon such bond or bonds, such surety, his or her
executors, administrators, or assignees, shall have and enjoy
the like advantage, priority, or preference, for the recovery
and receipt of said moneys, out of the estate and effects of
such insolvent, or deceased principal, as are reserved and secured to the United States ; and shall and may bring and maintain a suit or suits, upon the said bond or bonds, in law or
equity, in his, her, of their own name, or names, for the recovery of all moneys paid thereon. And the cases of insolvency
mentioned in this section shall be deemed to extend, as well
to cases in which a debtor, not having sufficient property to
pay all his or her debts, shall have made a voluntary assignment thereof for the benefit of his or her creditors, or in which
the estate and effects of an absconding, concealed, or absent
debtor, shall have been attached by process of law, as to cases
in which a legal act of bankruptcy shall have been committed."
Under these acts the followingpoints have been determined
1. That the preference given to the United States by the act
of 1797, c. 368. s. 5. is not confined to revenue officers, and
persons accountable for public money, but extends to debtors
of the United States generally. United States v. Fisher,
2 Cranch, 358. 391. 395. And that the collection act of 1799,
c. 128. s. 65. does not repeal the 5th section of the act of 1797,
c. 368. though the 65th section of the collection act applies
only to bonds taken for those duties on imports and tonnage,
which are the objects of the act. lb. 394. The United States
are entitled to their preference on a debt due to them by the
insolvent as endorser of a bill of exchange, as well as on any
other debt. The United States v. Eisher, 2 Cranch, 358.

119
18.
U. States
V.
-owland.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

120

2. The acts do not create a lien, nor extend to a bona fide
by the debtor to a third person in the ordinary
course of business, or to a mortgage to secure a debt, or to a
case where the debtor's property is seized under a fi.fa., before the right of preference has accrued to the United States.
United States v. Fisher, 2 Cranch, 390. United States v. Hooe,
3 Cranch, 73. 90. Thellusonv. Smith, ante, vol. 11.p. 396. 424.
But the United States are not precluded from asserting their
priority, by a voluntary assignment made by the debtor, under
such circumstances as would be a fraud on the bankrupt laws.
A mortgage of
Harrison v. Sterry, 5 Cranch, 289. 301.
part of his property made by a collecor of the customs to
his surety in his official bond, to indemnify the surety thereon,
and also to secure him from his existing and future endorsements
for the mortgagor at the bank, is valid against the United
States, although it turns out that the collector was unable to
pay all his debts at the time the mortgage was given, and
although the mortgagee knew at the time of taking the mortgage
the mortgagor was indebted to the United States. United States
v. Hooe, 3 Cranch, 73. The priority of the United States is
not affected by an assignment under a commission of bankruptcy. United States v. Fisher, 2 Cranch, 358.
3. A mere state of insolvency or inability in a debtor of.
the United States, to pay all his debts, gives no right of preference to the United States, unless it is accompanied by a voluntary assignment of his property for the benefit of his creditors ; or, unless his estate and effects shall be attached as those
of an absent, concealed, or absconding debtor ; or, unless he
has committed some legal act of bankruptcy or insolvency.
United States v. Fisher, 2 Cranch, 358. United States v. Hooe,
3 Cranch, 73. Prince v. Bartlett, 8 Cranch, 431. Thelluson v.
Smith, ante, vol. II. p. 396. 494. The priority is limited to
some one of these particular cases when the debtor is hving;
but it takes effect generally, if he is dead. United States v.
Fisher, 2 Cranch, 390. In this last cited case, Mr. Chief Justiqe MARSHALL intimated his own opinion, that it did not create
a devastavit in the administration of effects, and would require

Sconveyance

U. States
V.

Howland.

OF TIHE UNITED STATES.

12-1

aotice in order to bind the executor, or administrator, or
assignee. lb. 391. nota a.
4. The assignment must be of ALL the debtor's property. U. States
V.
United States v. Hooe, 3 Cranch, 73. 91. If,however, a tri-Howland.
vial portion of an estate should be left out for the purpose of
evading the act, it would be considered as a fraud upon the
law, and the parties would not be allowed to avail themselves
of such a contrivance. But where a bona fide conveyance of
part is made, not to avoid the law, but to secure'a fair creditor, the case is not within the acts. lb. 91.
5. The pri6rity attaches at the time of the insolvency manifested in any of the modes specified in the acts, whether a suit
United
has been commenced by the United States or not.
States v. Fisher, 2 Cranch, 395.
6. In the distribution of a bankrupt's effects in this country,
the United States are entitled to a preference, although the
debt was contracted by a foreigner in a foreign country, and
although the United States had proved their debt under a commission of bankruptcy in this country, and had voted for an
assignee. The law of the place, where the contract is made,
is, generally speaking, the law of the contract ; i. e. it is the
law by which the contract is to be expounded. But the right
of priority forms no part of the contract itself. It is extrinsic,
and is rather a personal privilege dependent on the law of the
place'where the property lies, and where the court sits which
is to decide the cause. Harrison v. Sterry, 5 Cranch, 289.
298.
7. Though a judgment gives to a judgment creditor a lien on
the debtor's lands, and a preference over all subsequent judgment creditors, yet the acts defeat this preference in -favour of
the United States in the cases specified. Thelluson v. Smith,
ante, vol. II. p. 396. 423.

VOL. IV

