OF THE UNITED STATE$.

under Hamilton, was so complete, that Sherrod's reebvery could- not °have been by title.paramount.

234
1819.
Bank of

Columbia

Certificate according!y.

(co. s-rTUTlnfAr, LAW.)

The.BANK OF COLUMBIA V. OKELY.
The act of Assembly of Maryland, of IV193, c. 30, incorporating the
Bank of Columbia, and giving to the corporation a summary
process by execution; in the nature of an attachment, against itz
debtors who have, by an express consent, in writing, made the
bonds, bills, or notes by them drawn or endorsed, negotiable at.the
Bank, is not repugnant to the constitution of the United States or
of Maryland.
But the last provision in the act of incorporation, which gives this
summary process to the Bank is no part of its corporate franchises,
and may be repealed or altered at pleasure by the legislative will.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of
Columbia.
This was a proceeding in the Court below, under
the act of Assembly of Maryland, of 1793, c. SO.
incorporating the Bank of Columbia, the 14th section of which is in these words:
"And whereas it is absolutely necessary that debts
due to the said Bank should be punctually paid, to
enable the Directors to calculate with certainty and
precision on meeting the demands that.may be made
upon them: Be it enacted, that whenever any person or persons are indebted to the said Bank for moneys borrowed by them, or for bonds, bills or notes

okely

236

CASES. IN THE SUPREME COURT

given or endorsed by them, with an express consent in
Bank Of writing that they may be made negotiable at the said
Bank, and shall refuse or neglect to make payment
Columbia
V.
0kely" at the time the same become due, the President shall
1819.

cause a demand in writing on the person of the said
d linquent or delinquents, having consented as aforesaid ; or if not to be found, have the same. left at his
last place of abode ; and if the money so due shall not
be paid within ten days after such demand made, or notice left at. his last place of abode as aforesaid, it shall
and may be lawful for the President, at his election,
to write to the Clerk of the General Court, or of the
county in which the said delinquent or delinquents
may reside, or did at the time he or they contracted
the debt reside, and send to the said Clerk the bond,
bil , or note due, with proof of the demand made as
aforesaid, and order the said Clerk to issue capias ad
satisfaciendum, fierifacias,or attachment by way of
execution, on which the debt and costs may be levied,
by selling the property of the defendant for the sum
or sums of money mentioned in the said bond, bill, or
note ; and the clerk of the General Court, and the
clerks of the several county Courts, arc hereby respectively required to issue such execution or executions,
which shall be made returnable to the Court whose
Clerk shall issue the same which shall first sit after issuing thereof, and shall be as valid and as effectual in
law, to all intents and purposes, as if the same had
issued on j udgmients regularly obtained in the ordinary
course of proceeding in the said Court; and suc.
execution or executions shall not be liable to be
,stayed or delayed by any supersedeas, writ of error,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

appeal, or injunction from the Chancellor: Provided
ahays, That before any execution shall issue as
aforesaid, the President of the Bank shall make an
oath (or affirmation, if he shall be of such religious
society as allowed by this state to make affirmation,)
ascertaining whether the whole or what part of the
debt due to the Bank on the said bond, bill, or note,
is due; which oath or affirmation shall be filed in the
office of the Clerk of the Court from which the execution shall issue; and if the defendant shall dispute
the whole, or any part of the said debt, on the return of the execution, the Court before whom it is
returned shall and may order an issue to be joined,
and trial to be had in the same Court at which the return is made ; and shall make such other proceedings,
that justice may be done in the speediest manner."
A motion was made in the Court below to quash
an execution, which had been issued against the defendant under this section, upon the ground that it
was contrary to the constitution of the United States,
article 7th of amendments, . and to the 21st article of
the bill of Rights of Maryland.'
a Which declares that, " In suits at common law, .where the
value in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of
trial by jury shall be preserved ; and no fact, tried by a jury,
shall be otherwise re-examined in any court of the United
States, than according to the rules of the common law."
b Which declares, " That no freeman ought to be taken, or
imprisoned, or disseized of his freehold, liberties, or privileges,
or outlawed, or exiled, or in any manner destroyed, or deprived
of his life, liberty, or property, but by the judgment of his
peers, or by the law of the land."

23"7
1819.
Dank of

Columbia

V.

Okely.

238,
1819.
Bank of
Columbia

,CASES N THE SUPREME COURT

The Court below quashed the execution upon
these grounds, and the cause was brought by writ of
error to this Court.

V.

Okely.
Peb. 17th.

Mr. Key, for the plaintiff, argued, that the act of
Congress of the. 27th of February, 1801, giving effect to the laws of Maryland in that part of the District of Columbia, which was ceded to the United
States by the State of Maryland, was a re-enactment
of those laws under the exclusive powers of legislation given to Congress over the District; and that
consequently the question of the repugnancy to the
local constitution of Maryland could not prbperly
arise. That such summary proceedings, whether of
a criminal or civil nature, which were in force at the
time when the constitution of the United States was
established, were to"be preserved, notwithstanding the
7th article of the amendments to that constitution.
That the statute of Magna Charta in England, from
which the 21st article of the bill of .rights of Maryland is copied, was never supposed to be infringed
by the multitude of modern statutes, under which
summary convictions for petty offences were had,
and the various summary proceedings authorized by
the revenue laws, which had also been adopted in this
country: but that what was -conclusive of the question, was, that no person could ever'be made liable to
the peculiar process given by this act of Maryland
without his own express consent in writing, that the
bill, or note, drawn or endorsed by him, should be negotiable at the Bank of Columbia S which, taken in
connexion with the other provisions-of the section,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

was equivalent to an agreement that this summary
process should issue against him in case of non-payment. It was, therefore, a case within the maxim
lexpio se introducta. Even after the consent thus
given to waive the trial by jury, in the first instance,
the party may dispute the demand on the return of
the execution, in which case the Court is to order
an issue to be joined, and a trial to be immediately
had by jury. So that the whole substantial effect of
the provision is, to authorize the commencement of
a suit by an attachment of the person and property
of the debtor, instead of the usual common law
process.
Mr. Jones, contra, insisted, that the act of Congress of the 29th of February, 1801, giving effect
to the then existing laws of Maryland, in that part
of the District of Columbia which had been ceded
to the United States, by the State. of Maryland, did
not extend to such acts as are repugnant to the State
and national constitutions. The bill of rights, of
Maryland limits the legislative powers of the Assembly of Maryland. By. the third article of that bill
of rights, the right of trial by jury is secured. in all
eases at common law, and the same right is secured
by the seventh amendment to the constitution of the
United States in all cases at common law above the
value of twenty dollars. The consent of the party
that his paper should be negotiable at the Bank,,was
by no means equivalent to an agreement, that this
summary process of execution before judgment, inverting the just. and natural order of judicial pro-

2-39
aisg.
Bank of
Columbia

Ovely.

MJA

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

18s.

ceedings, should be issued against him. Nor
could the party thus consent prospectively to renounce a common-law right. As a stipulation in a
policy of insurance not to sue, but to abide by the
avard of arbitrators, will not deprive the Courts of
common law of their ordinary jurisdiction, so neither will the consent of the party thus given, deprive
him of his right to a trial by jury. But even supposing the process were in other respects regular,
the act under which ir is issued does not empower
the clerk of the Circuit Court of the District of
Columbia to issue it. It is conferred by the letter of
the statute upon the clerks of the General Court, or
the County Court, and no provision is made in the
act of Congress of the 27th of February, 1801, for
vesting the same powers. in the clerk of the Circuit Court of the District, and for giving to that
Court the same jurisdiction over the case which the
State Court of Maryland previously had.

B
Columbia

V.

Ok'iey.

Mr. Martin, contra, was stopped by the Court.
Feb. 22d.

Mr. Justice JOHNsoN delivered the opinion of the
Court. In this case the defendant contended, that
his right to a trial by jury; as secured to him by the
constitution of the United States, and of the State of
Maryland, has been violated. The question is one
of the deepest interest ; and if the complaint be well
founded, the claims of the citizen on the protection of
this Court are peculiarly stiong.
The 7th amendment of the constitution of the United States is in these words:

OF THE UNITED STATES.

In suits at common law, where the value in con
1819.
troversy shall exceed 20 dollars, the right of the trial, Bank of (.oby jury shall be preserved, and no fact tried by a lumbia
jury shall be otherwise re-examined in any court of Okely.
the United States, than according to the rules of the
common law."
The 21st article of the Declaration of. Rights of
the State of Maryland, is in the words of Magna
Charta.
"No freeman ought to be taken or imprisoned,
&c. or deprived of his life, liberty, or property, but
by the judgment of his peers, or by the law of the
land."
.Theact by which this bank is ip.corporated, gives
a summary remedy for the, recovery of notes endorsed to it, provided those notes be made expressly
negotiable at the bank in their creation. This is anote
of that description; but it is contended,that the act authorizing the issuing of an execution, either against
the body or effects of the debtor, without the judgment
of a Court, upon the oath and demand of the president
of the bank, is so far a violation of the rights intended
to be secured to the individual, under the constitution
of the United States, and of the State of Maryland.
And as the, clause in the act of incorporation, under which this execution issued, is express as to the
Courts in which it i' to be executed, it is farther contended, that there is no provision in the law of Congress for executing it in this district.
We readily- admit, that the provisions of this law
are in derogation of the ordinary principles of private
-cc

VOL. IV.

31

.242
1819.

.,-of Coiank
lmbi,
V.

Okely.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

rights, and, as such,, must be subjected to a strict construction, and under the influence of this admission,

will proceed to consider the several questions which
the case presents.
The laws of the State of Maryland derive their
force, in this district, under the first section of the act
of Congress of the 27th of February, 1801. But we
cannot admit, that the section which gives effect to
those laws amounts to a re-enactment of them, so as
to sustain them, under the powers of exclusive legislation, given to Congress over this district. The
words of the act are, "'he laws of the State of
Maryland, as they now exist, shall be and continue in
force in that part of the said district, which was
ceded by that State to the United States." These
words could only give to those laws that force which
they previously had in this tract of*territory under the
laws of Maryland; and if this law was unconstitutional in that State, it was void there, and must be so
here. It becomes, then, unnecessary to examine the
question, whether the powers of Congress be despotic in this district, or whether there are any, and
what, restrictions imposed upon it, by natural reason,
the principles of the social compacti or constitutional
provisions.
Was this act void, as a law of Maryland ? If it was,
it must have become so under the restrictions of the
constitution of the State, or of the United -States.
could'
What was the object of those restrictions ? .It
not have been to protect the citizen from his own
acts, for it would then have operated as a restraint
upon his rights. It must have been against the'acts

OF THE UNITED STATES.

243

of others. But, to constitute particular'tribunals for 1819.
the adjustment of controversies among them, to *sub- Bank of Comit themselves to the exercise of summary remedies, lumbia
or to temporary privation of rights of the deepest in- Okely.
terest., are among the common incidents of life. Such
are submissions to arbitration *;such are stipulation
bonds, forth-coming bonds, and contracts of service.
And it was with a view to the voluntary, acquiescence of the individual, nay, the solicited submission to the law of the. contract, that this remedy was
given. By making the note negotiable at the bank
of Columbia, the debtor chose his own jurisdiction;
in considerati6n of the credit given him, he voluntarily relinquished his claims to the ordinary administration of justice, and placed himself only in the situation of an hypothecator of goods, with power to sell
on default, or a stipulater in the admiralty, whose voluntary submission to the jurisdiction of that Court
subjects him to personal coercion. It is true, cases
may be supposed, in which the policy of a country
may set bounds to the relintuishmept of private
rights. And this Court would ponder long before it
would sustain this action, if we could -be persuaded
that the act in question produced a total prostration
of the trial by jury, or even involved the defendant
in circumstances which rendered that right unavailing for his protection. But a power is reserved to
the judges, to make such rules and orders, "as that
justice may be done ;" and as the possession of judicial power imposes an obligation to exercise it, We
flatter ourselves that in practice, the evils so eloquently dilated o by the counsel do no exist.. And if.

214

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the defendant does not, avail himself of the right
Bank
him, of having an issue made up, and the trial
Bank oof Cogiven
CJumbia
by jury, which is tendered to him by the act, it is
Okely. presumable that he cannot dispute the justice of the
claim. That this view of the subject is giving full
effect to the seventh amendment of the constitution, is
not only deducible from the general intent, but from
the express wording of the article referred to. Had
the terms been, that "the trial by jury shall be preserved," it might have been contended,.that they were
imperative, and could not be dispensed with. But
the words are, that the right of trial by jury shall be
preserved, which places it on the foot of a lex pro se
introducta,and the benefit of it may therefore be relinquished. As to the words frpm Magna Charta,
incorporated into the constitution of Maryland, after volumes spoken and written with a view to their
exposition, the good sense of mankind has at length
settled down to this: that they were intended to secure the individual from the arbitrary exercise of the
powers of government, unrestrained by the established principles of private rights and distributive justice.
With this explanation, there is nothing- left to this
individual to complain of. What he has lost, he has
voluntarily relinquished, and the trial by jury is open
to him, either to arrest the progress of. the law in the
first instance, or to obtain redress for oppression,
if the power of the bank has been abused. The
same answer is equally applicable to the argument
founded on the third article of the Maryland constitution.
In giving this opinion, we attach no importance tQ
1819.

OF TiHE UNITED STATES..

W1

1819.
the idea of this being a chartered right in the bank.
,-,
we
It is the remedy, and iiot the right; and, as such,
Bank of
Columbia
Conof
th
will
to
subject
being
of
its
have no doubt
gress. The forms of administering justice, and the okely.
duties and powers of courts as incident to the exercise of a branch of sovereign power, must ever be
subject to legislative will, and the power over them
is* unalienable, so as to bind subsequent legislatures.
the case of
This subject came under consideration in.
'Young and the .Bank of Alexandria," and it wtas so
decided.
The next question is,,whether the Courts of'this
district are empowered to carry into effect the sum'mary remedy given to the. bank in this case ?
The law require's the application for process to be
iade to the clrk of the General Court, or .of the
County Court for the county in which the delinquent
resides, and obliges such clerk to issue the execution, returnable to the Court to which such clerk is
attached. Unless i therefore, the clerk of this district is vested with the same power, and-the Courts
with jurisdiction over thi case, the bank would not
have the means of resorting to this remedy.
The third section of the act of February, 1801,
does not vest in the Courts that power. It only
clothes the -Courts and judges of this district with
the jurisdiction and powers of the Circuit Courts and
judges of the United States.' But we are of opinion that this defect is supplied by the fifth section
of the'same act, taken in connection with the fifth
, 4 Cranch, 3a4.

246. 1819.

kp

U. States

v.

Rice.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

section of the act of March 3d, 1801. By the former section, the Courts of the district are vested generally with jurisdiction of all causes in law and
equity ; and, by the latter, the clerks of the Circuit

Court are required to perform all the services then
performed by the clerks of the counties of the State
of Maryland. Among those services' is that of instituting a judicial proceeding in favour of this bank,
and the return of that process is required to be to
the Court with which such clerk is connected. That
Court has jurisdiction of all cases in law arising
in this district, and thus the suit is instituted by the
proper officer, by writ returnable to a Court having
a jurisdiction communicated by terms which admit
of no exception.
Upon the whole, we are -of opinion that the law
is constitutional, and the jurisdiction vested in the
Courts of the district; and, therefore, that the judgment must be reversed, and the cause remanded for
further proceedings.
Judgment. reversed.

(COMMON LAW.>

The UNITED STATES

V, RICE.

By the conquest and military occupation of a portion of the terrritory
of the United States by a public enemy, that portion is to be deemed.a foreign country, so far as respects our revenue laws.

Goods imported into it, are not imported into the United States; and
ar0 subject to such duties only as the conqueror may impose.,.

