'OF THE UNITED STATES.

the principle. And that as to the certificate under
thc .English bankrupt laws, it had frequently been
determined, and was well settled, that a discharge
under a foreign law, was no bar to an action on a,
:contract made in this c9untry.
Judgment affirmed,

(COMMON LAW.)
BAxR v. GRATz's

heirs.

.A patent issued on the 18th Novemberi 1784, for 1,000 acres of land.
in Kentucky, to J. C., who had previously, In July, 1784, covenanted to convey the same to M. G., the ancestor of the lessor of
the plaintiff, and on the 23d June, 1786, M. G. made an agreement with R. B., the defendant in ejectment, to convey to him 750
acres, part of the traict of 1,000 acres, under which agreement .
B. entered into possession of the whole tract- and'on the 11 th of
April, 1787, J. C., by direction of M G. conveyed to R. B. the. 750
acres in fulfilment of said agreement, which were severed by metes
and bounds from the tract of 1,000 acres. J. C. and his wife, on the
26th of April, 1791, made a conveyance in trust of all his property,
real and personal, to R. f. and E. C. On the-12th of February,
1818, R. J., as surviving trustee, conveyed to the heirs of M. G.,
under a decree in equity, that part of the 1,000 acres not previously
oonveyed to R. B., and 'in the part',o conveyed, under the decree,
was'inc'luded the land claimed in' the ejectment. R. 13. (the defendant) claimed the land in controversy under a patent for 400
acres issued on the 15th of §eptehber, 1795, founded on a survey
made for B. N., May 12th, 1782: and under a deed of the 13th of
December, 1796, from one Coburn, who had, in the winter and
jpring of 1791, entered into and fen6ed a field within the bounds of
the original patent for 1,000 acres to J. C., claiming to hold- the

213
1819.
Barr

B.

Gratz.

214
1819.
%P",vd

Barr
V.
Gratz.

CASES IN THE, SUPREME COURT
same under B. N.'s survey of 400 acres. Held. that upon the issu.
ing of the patent to J. C., in November, 1784, the possession then
being vacant, he became by operation of law vested with a constructive actual seizin of the whole tract included in his patent ;
that his whole title passed by his' prior conveyance to' M. G. (the
ancestor of the lessor of the plaintiff;) and that when it became
complete at law by the issuing of the patent, the actual constructive
seizin of J. C. passed to M. G., by virtue of that conveyance.
Held, that when subsequently, in virtue of the agreement made in
June, 1786, between M. G. and R.B. (the defendant) the latter entered into p6ssession of the whole tract, under this equitable title,
his possession being consistent with the title of M. G., and in common with him, was the possession of M. G. himself, and enured to
the benefit of both, according to the nature of the respective titles.
And that when subsequently, in April, 1787, by the direction of M.
G., J.C. conveyed to the defendant 750 acres in fulfilment of the
agreement between M. G. and the defendant, and the same were
severed by metes and bounds in the deed from the tract of 1,000
acres, the defendant became sole seized in his own right of the 750
acres so conveyed. But as he still remained in the actual possession of the residue of the tract, within the bounds of the patent,
which possession was originally acquired under M. G., the character of his tenure was not changed by his own act, and, therefore,
he was quasi tenant to M. G., and, as such, continued the actual
'seizin of the latter, over this residue at least, up to the deed fromt
Coburn to the defendant, in 1796.
Held, that if Coburb, in 1791, when he entered and fenced a field,
&c. had been the legal owner of B. N.'s survey, his actual. occupation of a part would not have given him a constructil e actual seiiin
of the residue of the tract included in that survey, that residue being at the time of his entry and occupation in the adverse seizin of
- another person, (M. G.) having an older and better title. But tlxre
being no evidence that Cobrirn was the legal owner of B. N.'s survey, his entry must be considered as an entry without title, and
consequently his disseizin was- limited to the bounds of his actual
occupancy.
The deed of the 16th of July, 1784, from J. C. to M. G., being more
than thirty years old, and proved to have been in possession of the
lessors of. the plaintiffs, and actually asserted as the ground of
their title in the equity suit, was admissable .in evidence without
regular proof of its execution.
I
The deed'from J.C. and wife, to D. J.and E. C., in 1791, was not
wihin the statute of champerty and maintenance of Kentucky;

OF THE UNITED STATES2.
for as to all the land not in the actual occupancy of Coburn, the
deed was operative, the grantors and those holding under them having at all times had the legal seizin.
In general, judgments and decrees are evidence only in suits between
parties and privies; but the doctrine is wholly inapplicable to a case
like the. present, where the decree in equity was not introduced as
per se binding upon any rights of the other party, but as an introductory fact to a link in the chain of the plaintiff's title, and constituting a part of the muniments of his estate.
The deed of 1813, from R; J., surviving trustee, under the decree in
equity, was valid without being approved by the Court, and recorded
in the Court, according to the statute of Kentucky of the 16th of
February, 1808, c. 453.

to the Circuit Court of Kentucky.
This was an action of ejectment, in which the
defendants in error were the lessors of the plaintiffs
below, and which was brought to recover the possession of a tract of land in the district of Kentucky, claimed by them under a patent issued to
John Craig, November 18th, 1784, for 1,000 acres
of land, included in three separate warrants of 320
acres, 480 acres, and 200 acres, surveyed for John
Craig, on the 14th of January, 1783. On the 16th
of July, 1784, John Craig conveyed, by deed, the
said tract of land to Michael Gratz, the ancestor of
the lessors of the plaintiffs, and covenanted to cause
a patent to issue to said Gratz, or if it could not
issue in his name, that said Craig would stand seized
to the use of Gratz, and' make such other conveyances as should be necessary to confirm the title.
On the 23d of June, 1786, Gratz made an agreement with Robert Barr, the defendant in ejectment,
to convey to him 750 acres of land,, part of the
said 1,000 acres;. the defendant' entered.,into possesER OR

2215
1819.
Barr
V.
Gratz.

216

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1819.
B rr

,.

Gratz.

sion of the whole tract,, and settled a quarter and
farm thereon, and on the I1Ith day of April, 1787,
John Craig, by the direction of said Gratz, conveyed
to the defendant, Barr, 750 acres, in, fulfilment
of
said agreement, which were severed by metes and
bounds from the said tract of 1,000 acres. On the
26th of April, 1791,'John Craig and his wife, made
a conveyance in trust to Robert Johqson and Elijah
Craig of all his property, real and personal. On the
12th of February, 1813, Robert Johnson, as surviving trustee, under a decree in equity of the Circuit
Court for the district of Kentucky, conveyed'to the
lessors of the, plaintiffs that part of the 1,000 acres
not previously conveyed to the defendant, Barr, and
in the part so conveyed was included the land
claimed in this action.
The defendant, Barr, claimed the tract of land
in controversy under a patent for 400 acres issued,
by the State of Kentucky; on the I 6th of September,
1795, founded on a suti rvey made for Benjamin Netherland, May 12th, 1782.
On the trial of the cause, the plaintiffs read ini evidence to tile jury the patent to John Craig for 1,000
acres of land; copies of two other surveys for John
Craig; the deed of the 16th July, 1784, to Michael
Gratz, the ancestor of the lessors of the plaintiffs;
the deed. of trust of the 26th of April, 1791, from
John Craig and wife to Robert Johnson and Elijah
Craig ; the deed of the 12th February, 1813, from
Robert Johnson (as surviving trustee to the lessors
of the plaintiffs ; 'the decree in the chancery suit between Michael Gratz and John Craig and others,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

217

18i19.
under which that. deed was made;. the surveys,
plats, and reports of the 14th of January, 1783,
Barr
v.
between
signed by John Price, and ihe agreement
introalso
plaintiffs
The
Barr.
the said Gratz and
duced parol testimony establishing the boundary of
the land patented to John Craig, and proving the
defendant's possession of the whole tract.
The defendant gave in evidence a deed from one
Coburn to him, dated the 13th of December, 1796;
the deed from Craig to him of the 1 th of April,
1787; the plat and certificate of Netherland's survey; a certificate of its conveyance by Ann Shields
to the defendant; and gave parol testimony that,, in
the winter and spring of 1791, Coburn entered into,
and fenced a, field within the boundary of Craig's
patent, claiming to hold the same under the title of
Netherland, as part of the land included in his survey
of 400 acres.
The defendant objected to the admission in evidence of the record and proceedings of the Circuit
Court in the Chancery suit between Michael Gratz
and John Craig and others ;' but the decree was permitted to be read to the jury, to which the defendant excepted. The defendant also excepted to the
admission in evidence of the deed from John Craig
to Michael Gratz, dated the 16th of July, 1784, because' the same was not proved by the subscribing
witnesses, nor their absence accounted for.
The Court instructed the jury as follows : 1. That
if they should be of opinion that neither the defendant, nor John Coburn, under whom he claims, were
in actual possession of the land now in dispute prior
VOL. IV.
28

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

igig.
Bar;'

V.
Gratz.

to the 18th day of November, 1784, the date of the
patent to John Craig for the land now in dispute,
that the emanation of the said grant gave possession
to the said John Craig of the whole of the said
land ; and that the present plaintiffs were. entitled to
the benefit of that possession. 2. That if the jury
should be of opinion that Robert Barr, the defendant, entered upon, and took possession of the land in
contest under a contract with the ancestor of the
plaintiffs, and was so possessed at the time of the
settlement of Coburn," under whom the defendant
now pretends title, that the possession of Coburn,
when taken, did not extend within the patent lines,
under Which the lessors of the plaintiffs claim, be.beyond his actual occupancy. 3. That Coburn's
claiming and fencing a part of the land in 1791, or
whenever the jury should be of opinion he took pos.session and fenced within the patent limits aforesaid,
did not. give to him a legal possession to any other
part of the land within the patent to Craig, than'that
of which he had the actual occupancy. 4. That
the possession of Coburn, attempted to be proved,
.,more than twenty years before the bringing this
suit, did not bar the plaintiffs' right to sue, further
than he showed an actual possession for twenty
years, or upwards, next before bringing this suit.
The defendant objected to the instructions so given
the jury, and moved that the Court should give certain other instructions to the jury, which were refused. A verdict was taken for the plaintiffs, and
judgment rendered thereupon. The defendant afterwards moved for a new trial, which was refused by

119

Or THE UNITED STATES.

the Court. The cause was thereupon broughti'by
writ of error, to this Court.

1819.
Barr
Bart
V.

Gratz.

This cause was argued by Mr. Triinble, for the
plaintiffs in error, who made the following points: Feb. Iith.
I. That the Court below erred in refusing the motion for a new trial. 2. That the decree in the
Chancery suit between Michael Gratz and John
Craig and others, was not admissible in evidence in
this case. 3. That there, was error in admitting in
evidence the deed from John Craig to Michael, Gratz
of the 16th of July, 1784, without the regular proof
of its execution by the subscribing witnesses. 4. That
the deed of the 13th of February, 1813, from Robert Johnson, as surviving trustee, to the lessors of
the plaintiff, under the. decree in chancery, was not
admissible in evidence, 'without preliminary proof
that Elijah Craig was dead. 5. That the said deed
was not approved by the Court, nor recorded as required by the statute of Kentucky of the 16th of
February, c. 453. 6. That the deed of the 26th of
April,1791, from John Craig and wife, in trust, to
Robert Johnson and Elijah Craig, was void under
the statute of champerty and maintenance, the land
being at the time in the adverse possession of Coburn. 7. That the Court below erred in the instructions it gave to the jury.
Mr. Talbot and Mr. Sergeant, contra.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Feb.19t6,

Court.

In this case, it is unnecessary to travel

S220

CASES iN THE SUPREME COUR T

through all the exceptions taken by the defendant in
the Court below, because, upon the facts stated in the
Barr
V. bill of exceptions, some of the opinions required of
Gratz.
the Court upon' points of law, do not arise from the
evidence ; and as to others, the opinion of the Court,
if in any respect erroneous, was so in favour of the
defendant.
The first error assigned is, that the Court refused
to grant a new trial; but it has been already decided,
and is too plain for argument, that such a refusal affords no ground for a writ of error.
Another error alleged is, that the Court allowed
the decree of the .Circuit. Court, in the Chancery
.suit between Michael Gratz and John Craig and
others; to be given in evidence to the jury. In our
opinion this record was clearly admissible." It is true
that, in general, judgments and decrees are evidence
only in suits between parties and privies. But the
doctrine is wholly inapplicable to a case'like the pre..sent, where the decree is not introduced as per se
-binding upon any rights of the other party, but as
an introductory fact to a link in the, chain of the
plaintiff's title, and constituting a part of the munimenits of his estate•; without establishing the existence of the decree, it would be impossible to estabilish -the legal. validity of the- deed from Robert
Johnson, to the lessors of the plaintiffs, which was
made under 'the authority ,of that decree; and under
such. circumstances to reject the proof of the decree,
would be, in effect, to declare that no title derived
under a decree in Chancery, was of anT validity except in a suit between parties and privies, so that in1819.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

a suit by or against a stranger, it would be a mere
nullity. It might with as much propriety be argued,
that the plaintiff was not at liberty to prove any other
title deeds in this suit, because they were res inter
atlios acta.
Another error alleged is, the admission in evidence
of the deed of John Craig to Michael Gratz, dated
the 16th of July, 1784, without the regular proof of
its execution by the subscribing witnesses. But as
that deed was more than thirty years old, and was
proved to have been in the possession of the lessors
of the plaintiff, and actually asserted by them as the
ground of their title in the Chancery suit, it was, in
the language of the books, sufficiently accounted for;
and on this account, as well as because it was a part
of the evidence in support of the decree, it was admissible, without the regular proof of its execution.
Another error alleged is, that the deed from Robert
Johnson to the plaintiffs, under the decree in Chancery,
was not admissible in evidence without proof that.
Robert Johnson was the surviving trustee, and that
Elijah Craig was dead. But upon examining the
bill of exceptions of the defendant, no point of this
sort arises ; for it is there stated that the plaintiff gave
in evidence "the deed from Robert Johnson the surviving trustee to the lessors of the plaintiff;" and no
objection appears to have been made to its admissibility on this account..
Having disposed of these minor objections, we
may advance to the only points of any real importance in the cause, but which, in -our opinion, are of
no intrinsic difficulty. Upon the issuing of the pa-

I819,.
B

v.
Gratz-

2ASES IN THE SUPREME COURT .

222
1819.
Barr

V.

Graz.

tent to John Craig, in November, 1784, the posses-

sion then being vacant, he became, by operation of
law, vested with a constructive actual seisin, of the
whole tract of land included in his patent. His
whole title (such as it Was) passed by his prior conyeyance in July, 1784, to'Michael Gratz, the ancescestor of the lessor of the plaintiff, and the moment
it became complete at law by the issuing of the patent, the actual constructive seisin of Craig was
transferred to Gratz, in *irtue of that conveyance.'
When subsequently, in virtue of the agreement made
in June, 1786, between Michael Gratz, and the defendant, for the purchase of 750 acres of the tract
of 1,000 acres, the defendant entered into possession
of the whole tract, under this equitable title, his possession being consistent with the title of Gratz, and
in common with him, was the possession of Gratz
himself, and tenured to the benefit of both, according
to the nature of their titles. When subsequenty, in
April, 1787, by the direction of Gratz, Craig conveyed to the defendant, a large'portion of the land
in fulfilment of the agreement between Gratz and
Barr, and the same was severed by the metes and
bounds in the deed from the tract of 1,000 acres, the
defendant became sole seized in his own right of the
portion-so conveyed.- But as he still remained in the
actual possession of the residue of the tract within
the bounds of the patent, and this possession was
originally taken under Gratz, the character of his
tenure was not changed by his own act, and therea Vide Green v. Liter, 8 Cranch, 229. 245,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

.2"20

1819.
'fore he was quasitenant to Gratz; and as such, continuk"V'b"
this
of
whole
the
over
latter
the
of
ed the actual seisin
Barr
V.
residue, at least up to the period of the deed from
Gralz.
to
us
brings
This
1796.
in
Coburn to the defendant
the consideration of the period when the evidence
first establishes any entry or possession in John Coburn. It appears by the evidence, that in the winter
and spring of 1791, Coburn entered into, and fenced,
a field within the boundary of Craig's patent, claiming to hold the same under the title of Netherland, as
part of the land 'included in his survey of a tract
of 400 acres. If Coburn at this time had been the
legal owner of Netherland's survey, his actual occupation of a part, would not have given him a constructive actual seisin of the residue of the tract included in that survey, if at the time of his entry and
occupation that residue was in the adverse seisin of
another person having an older and better title. .For
where two persons are in possession of land at the
same time, under different titles, the law adjudges
him to have. the seisin of the estate who has the better title. Both cannot be seised, and, therefore, the
seisin follows the title. Now it is clear that the title
of Craig, and, of course, of his grantee Gratz, was
older and better than -Netherland's; and the possession of Barr under that title, being the possession of
Gratz, the legal seisin of the land which was not sold
to Barr, was by construction of law in Gratz; and the
disseisin of Coburn under a junior title, did not extend beyond the limits of his actual occupancy.
This reasoning prbceeds upon the supposition that
Coburn bad a good title to Netherland's survey.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

2.24
1819.
Barr

V'
Gratz.

But, in fact, no such title was shown in evidence,
being no proof that Ann Shield, from whom
Coburn derived his title, was the legal owner of the
title of Netherland. So that the entry of Coburn must

Sthere

be considered as an entry without title, and, consequently,. his disseisin was limited to the bounds of hit
actual occupancy. This view of the case disposes
of the objection to the deed from Craig and wife to
Robert Johnson and Elijalh Craig, in 1791, upon the
ground that it was within the statutes of champerty
and maintenance, the land being at the time in the
adverse possession of Coburn; for as to all the land
not in his actual occupancy (and to this alone the
charge of the Court applied) the deed was not, at all
events, operative; the grantors, and persons holding
under them, having at all times had the legal seisin.a
Another objection taken is, that the deed from
Robert Johnson to the lessorsof the plaintiff, under
the decree in Chancery,. wa not approved- by the
.,Court, nor recorded in the Court in conformity with
the statute of Kentucky of the - 6th of February,
1818, ch. 453. In our judgment no such approval
was necessary; and upon examination of the statute
in question, it is clear that it is not imperative in the
present case.
Upon the" whole, without going more minutely into
the case, we are all of opinion that the judgment of
the Court below' ought to be affirmed. No error
has been committed which is injurious to the defendu Vide Walden v. Gratz's Heirs, ante, -D. 1. p. 292.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ant. He has had the full benefit of the law, so far
as the facts of his case would warrant the Court jn
applying it in his favour.
Judgment affirmed.

isig.
0
Eliason
V.
Henshaw;

(COMMON LAW.)

ELIASON et

al. v.

HENSHAW.

Where. A. offered to purchase of B. two or three hundred barrels of
flour, to be delivered at Georgetown, (District of Columbia,) by the
first water, and to pay for the same 9 dollars 50dents per barrel;
and to the letter, containing this offer, required an answer by the
returnof the wagon by which the letter was sent. This wagon was
at that time in the service. of B., and employed by him in conveying flour frem his mill to Harper's Ferry; near to which place A.
then was. His offer was accepted by B., in a letter sent by the first
regular mail to Georgetown, and received by A. at that place; but
no answer was ever sent to Harper's Ferry. Held, that this acceptance, communicated at a place different from tbAt indicated by
A., imposed no obligation binding upon him.
An offer of a bargain, by one person to another, imposes no obligation
upon the former, unless it is accepted by the latter according to
the terms on which the offer was made. Any qualification of, or
departure from, those terms, invalidates the offer, unless; the same
be agreed to by the party who made it..
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Columbia.
This cause was argued by Mr. Jones and. Mr. Key,

Peb. 17th.

for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Swann for the
defendant in error.
Mr. Justice WASHINGTON delivered the opinion of Feb. 2Oh.
the Court. This is an action, brought by the defendVOL. IV.

29

