AUTO WORKERS v. SCOFIELD.

205

Syllabus.

INTERNATIONAL UNION, UNITED AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA, AFL-CIO,
LOCAL 283 v. SCOFIELD ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

Argued October 20, 1965.-Decided December 7, 1965.*
In No. 18, a union was charged by individual employees with violations of the National Labor Relations Act, and the Board's General Counsel issued a complaint. The NLRB dismissed the comNo. 18.

plaint after a hearing and the individual employees sought review
in the Court of Appeals. The NLRB filed an answer supporting
the decision. A motion of intervention filed by the union, although not opposed by the NLRB or the employees, was denied
by the court. The union was permitted to fie a brief as amicus
curiae. In No. 53, a union filed charges against a company and
the Board's General Counsel issued a complaint. After a hearing
the NLRB issued a cease-and-desist order against the company,
which petitioned for review in the Court of Appeals. The NLRB
cross-petitioned for enforcement and the union moved to intervene. Both the company and the NLRB opposed intervention.
The court denied the motion and authorized the union to file an
amicus brief. Certiorari was granted in both cases. Held:
1. Although under 28 U. S. C. § 1254 (1) only a "party" to a
case in the Court of Appeals (which does not include an amicus
curiae) may seek review here, our decision makes clear that the
petitioners had a right to obtain review of the )rders denying
intervention. Pp. 208-209.
2. The successful charged party in NLRB proceedings has the
right to intervene in appellate proceedings brought by the unsuccessful charging party. Pp. 209-217.
(a) While the Act does not specifically provide for intervention at the appellate level, most courts have recognized the right
of the successful charged party to intervene. P. 211.
*Together with No. 53, International Union, United Automobile,
Aerospace & Agricultural Implement Workers of America, Local
133, UAW, AFL-CIO v. Fafnir Bearing Co. et al., on certiorari to
the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Syllabus.

382 U. S.

(b) To permit such intervention in the initial appellate
review proceedings will avoid duplication of proceedings, adhere
to the goal of obtaining just results with a minimum of technical
requirements, accomplish the objective of prompt determination
of labor disputes, insure fairness to the would-be intervenor, and
will not affct this Court's discretionary review powers nor delay
or complicate appellate procedures. Pp. 212-216.
(c) The element of fortuity, whereby the unsuccessful charged
party has a right to review but the successful charged party does
not, is removed. Pp. 216-217.
(d) Analogies in the Judicial Review Act of 1950, and the
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure manifest congressional concern
-oat interested private parties be given a right to intervene and
*participate in agency review proceedings. Pp. 216-217.
3. The successful charging party in NLRB proceedings also has
the right to intervene in the appellate review. Pp. 217-222.
(a) A successful charging party, being not only a member
of the general public whose interests are protected by the NLRB
but also one with vital private interests which are involved and
protected by the Act in its blending of both interests, is entitled
to recognition as a party in appellate proceedings. Amalgamated
Util. Workers v. Consolidated Edison Co., 309 U. S. 261, distinguished. Pp. 219-221.
(b) When the court rules on the merits of an NLRB order,
the Act supports the view that the court and not the agency
defines the public interest. P. 221.
(c) This Court, and not the Labor Board, is the body having
discretion to decide which cases are suitable vehicles to raise
important issues on certiorari. P. 221.
(d) As in the case of the charged party, the successful charging party should have the same right as an unsuccessful party in
appearing before an appellate court. P. 222.
No. 53, 339 F. 2d 801, and No. 18, reversed and remanded.

Joseph L. Rauh, Jr., argued the cause for petitioners
in both cases. With him on the briefs were John Silard,
Daniel H. Pollitt, Stephen I. Schlossberg, Eugene Gressman, Harold A. Katz, Irving M. Friedman, Philip L.
Padden, William S. Zeman and Benjamin Rubenstein.

Solicitor General Marshall argued the cause for respondents in both cases.

With him on the brief for the

AUTO WORKERS v. SCOFIELD.
205

Opinion of the Court.

National Labor Relations Board were Ralph S. Spritzer,
Arnold Ordman, Dominick L. Manoli and Norton J.
Come.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WARREN delivered the opinion of
the Court.
The two cases before us present converse sides of a
single question-. whether parties who are wholly successful in unfair labor practice proceedings before the
National Labor Relations Board have a right to intervene
in the Court of Appeals review proceedings.
In No. 18 (Scofield), the Union Local was charged by
four individual employees with violations of the National
Labor Relations Act, as amended, 61 Stat. 136, 73 Stat.
519, 29 U. S. C. § 151 et seq. (1964 ed.), for fining certain
Union members for exceeding incentive pay ceilings set
by the Union. The General Counsel of the Board issued
a complaint. After a full hearing, the Board dismissed
the complaint, 145 N. L. R. B. 1097. The individual
employees then sought review in the Seventh Circuit.
The General Counsel filed an answer supporting the decision. At this point, the Union filed a timely motion of
intervention, alleging, that it would be directly affected
should the appellate court set aside the Board's decision
and direct the entry of a remedial ordc,- against it.
Neither the individual employees nor the Board opposed
intervention. A division of the Seventh Circuit denied
the motion to intervene, but authorized the Union to file
a brief as amicus curiae without leave to participate in
oral argument. The Union sought review here, and we
granted certiorari to review the denial of intervention
because of the importance of the issue and the conflict
among the courts of appeals, 379 U. S. 959. Further proceedings were stayed pending the completion of our
review.
In No. 53 (Fafnir), the Local filed unfair labor practice charges against the Fafnir Bearing Company. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of the Court.

382 U. S.

charging party alleged that the company had violated its
statutory bargaining obligation by refusing to permit the
contracting Union to conduct its own time studies of job
operations in the plant. The Union allegedly needed to
conduct these studies to ascertain whether it should proceed to arbitration. The General Counsel issued a complaint, a hearing was held, and the Board entered a ceaseand-desist order against the company, 146 N. L. R. B.
1582. The company petitioned for review in the Second
Circuit, and the Board filed a cross-petition for enforcement. The Union-the successful party before the
Board-moved to intervene, alleging numerous grounds
in support. Both the company and the Board opposed
intervention. The Second Circuit denied the motion,
although cognizant of the difficulties of the problem, and
authorized the Union to file an amicus brief. 339 F. 2d
801. We granted certiorari, 380 U. S. 950, and consolidated Fafnir with Scofield in order to consider both
facets of the intervention problem.
We hold that both the successful charged party (in
Scofield) and the successful charging party (in Fafnir)
have a right to intervene in the Court of Appeals proceeding which reviews or enforces Labor Board orders.
We think that Congress intended to confer intervention
rights upon the successful party to the Labor Board proceedings in the court in which the unsuccessful party
challenges the Board's decision.
A threshold question concerns our jurisdiction to grant
certiorari. Under § 1254 (1) of the Judicial Code,1 only
iSection 1254 (1), 28 U. S. C. § 1254 (1) (1964 ed.), provides:
"Cases in the courts of appeals may be reviewed by the Supreme
Court... :
"(1) By writ of certiorari granted upon the petition of any party
to any civil . . .case, before or after rendition of judgment or

decree."

AUTO WORKERS v. SCOFIELD.
205

Opinion of the Court.

a "party" to a case in the Court of Appeals may seek
review here. In both these cases, the Union seeking certiorari was denied intervention and relegated to the
status of an amicus curiae. Because an amicus is not a
"party" to the case, it would not have been entitled to
file a petition to review a judgment on the merits by the
Court of Appeals, Ex parte Leaf Tobacco Board, 222
U. S. 578, 581; Ex parte Cutting, 94 U. S. 14, 20-22.
In view of our decision herein, we think that § 1254 (1)
permits us, to review the orders denying intervention.
See Railroad Trainmen v. Baltimore & 0. R. Co., 331
U. S.519.
I.
Congress has made a careful adjustment of the individual and administrative interests throughout the
course of litigation over a labor dispute. The Libor Act
does not, however, provide explicitly for intervention at
the appellate court level. Section 10 (f) of the Act,
61 Stat. 148, as amended, 29 U. S. C. § 160 (f) (1964 ed.),
serves as our guide, even though it is silent on the intervention problem. It states, in pertinent part:
"Any person aggrieved by a final order of the
Board granting or denying in whole or in part the
relief sought may obtain a review of such order in
any United States court of appeals in the circuit
wherein the unfair labor practice in question was
alleged to have -been engaged in or wherein 'such
person resides or transacts business, or in the United
States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia,
by filing in such a court a written petition praying
that the order of the Board be modified or set aside."
Similarly, no specific standards govern, the propriety of
intervention in Labor Board review proceedings. The
Rules of the Courts of Appeals typically provide: "A
person desiring to intervene in a case where the appli..
786-211 0-66-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of the Court.

382 U. S.

cable statute does not provide for intervention shall file
with the court and serve upon all parties a motion- for
leave to intervene." 2
Lacking a clear directive on the subject, we
look to the
statutory design of the Act. Cf. Scripps-Howard Radio
v. Commission, 316 U. S. 4, 11. -Of course, in considering the propriety of intervention in the courts of appeals,
our discussion is limited to Labor Board review proceedings. Federal agencies are not fungibles for intervention purposes--Congress has treated the matter with
attention to the particular statutory scheme and agency.
In some instances, the words of the statute themselves
elicit an answer. When the Board enters a final order
against the charged party, it is clear that the phrase
"[a]ny person aggrieved" in § 10 (f) enables him to seek
immediate review in the appropriate Court of Appeals.
Alternatively, if the Board determines that a complaint
should be dismissed, the charging party has a statutory
right to leview as a "person aggrieved." A hybrid situation occurs when the Board dismisses certain portions of
the complaint and issues an order on others. As to that
portion-which results in a remedial order against him, the
charged party is aggrieved; likewise, the charging party
is aggrieved with respect to the portion of the decision
dismissing the complaint. Each one is a "party" in a
consolidated appeal, and has invariably been granted
leave to intervene with regard to the portion of the order
on which the Board found in his favor.'
2 Second Circuit Rule 13 (f); Seventh Circuit Rule 14 (f).
The
other circuits which provide for intervention have substantivelidentical rules: First Circuit Rule 16 (6); Third Circuit Rule 18 (6);
Fourth Circuit Rule 27 (6); Sixth Circuit Rule 13 (6); Eighth Circuit Rule 27 (f); Ninth Circuit Rule 34 (6); Tenth Circuit Rule
- 34 (6); District of Columbia Circuit Rule 38 (f).
8 Darlington Mfg. Co. v. Labor Board, 325 F. 2d 682 (C.' A. 4th
Cir.), vacated and remanded on other grounds, sub nom. Textile
Workers v. Darlington Co., 380 U. S. 263; Industrial Union of

AUTO WORKERS v. SCOFIELD.
205

Opinion of the Court.

8cofield serves as an example of another variant in
review proceedings. The unsuccessful charging party to
the Board proceedings petitioned for review, and the successful. charged party wished to intervene. The vast
majority of the courts have recognized his right to do so.'
Recognition of intervention rights in this instance is in
complete accord with the statements in Ford Motor Co.
v. Labor Board, 305 U. S. 364, 369, 373, that:
"While § 10 (f) assures to any aggrieved person
opportunity to contest the Board's order, it does
not require an unnecessary duplication of proceedings. The aim of the Act is to attain simplicity and
-directness both in the administrative procedure and
on judicial review ...
. . . The jurisdiction to review the orders of the
Labor .Relations Board is vested in a court with
equity powers, and while the court must act within
the bounds of the statute and without intruding
upon the administrative province, it may adjust its
Marine & Shipbuilding Workers v. Labor Board, 320 F. 2d 615
(C. A. 3d Cir.); Labor Board v. Wooster Div. of Borg-Warner
Corp., 236 F. 2d 898 (C.A. 6th Cir.); see also American Newspaper
Publishers Assn. v. Labor Board, 190 F. 2d 45 (C. A. 7th Cir.).
4Carrier
Corp. v. Labor Board, 311 F. 2d 135 (C. A. 2d Cir.),
other grounds, sub nom. Steelworkers v. Labor Board,
on
reversed
376 U. S. 492; Local 1.441, Retail Clerks InternationalAssn. v. Labor
Board, 326 F. 2d 663 (C. A. D. C. Cir.); Amalgamated Clothing
Workers of America v. Labor Board, 324 F. 2d 228 (C. A. 2d Cir.);
Minnesota Milk Co. v. Labor Board, 314 F. 2d 761 (C. A. 8th
Cir.); Great Western Broadcasting Corp. v. Labor Board, 310 F.
2d 591 (C. A. 9th Cir.); Selby-Battersby & Co. v. Labor Board,
259 F. 2d 151 (C. A. 4th Cir.); Kovach v. Labor Board, 229 F. 2d
138 (C. A. 7th Cir.).* Contra, Superior Derrick Corp. v. Labor
Board, 273 F. 2d 891 (C. A. 5th Cir.), cert. denied, 364 U. S. 816;
Amalgamated Meat Cutters v. Labor Board, 267 F. 2d 169 (C. A.
1st Cir.), cert. denied, 361 U. S. 863; Haleston Drug Stores, Inc. v.
Labor Board, 190 F. 2d 1022 (C. A. 9th Cir.).

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of the Court.

382 U. S.

relief to the exigencies of the case in accordance with
the equitable principles governing judicial action.
The purpose of the judicial review is consonant with
that of the administrative proceeding itself,-to secure a just result with a minimum of technical
requirements ....
To allow intervention to the charged party in the first
appellate review proceeding is to avoid "unnecessary
duplication of proceedings," and to adhere to the goal of
obtaining "a just result with a minimum of technical
requirements." Analysis of the Act's machinery in practice so indicates. A decision of the reviewing court to
set aside a Board order dismissing a complaint has the
effect of returning the case to the Board for further proceedings.- This normally results in the Board's entering
an order against the charged party. From this remedial
order, as noted, the charged party is aggrieved and may
seek review. Judicial time and energy is then expended
in pursuit of issues already resolved in the first appeal.5
Moreover, the second appeal could lead to undesirable
,5There are, of course, cases in which the Court of Appeals will

remand to the Board to take additional evidence or to reconsider

the order in light of litigational developments. In these cases, there
is a greater opportunity for the party originally victorious before
the Board successfully to persuade it or the appellate court than
in the case in which no additional evidence need be taken. Still,
the considerations discussed herein strongly suggest the propriety
of intervention in these cases as well, especially since, at the time
a motion for leave to intervene is filed, the reviewing court will not
be fully apprised of the issues involved in the case.
Then, too, only 12 proceedings in which the Board had entered
an order dismissing the complaint and the charging party appealed
the dismissal in the Court of Appeals occurred during the 1964
fiscal year: See 29 NLRB Ann. Rep. 201, Table 19 (1964). In
eight of these, the Board orders were affirmed in full. Ibid. The
small caseload gives further support for the notion that the courts
of appeals, and the Board, will not be disadvantaged by allowing
intervention to the charged party.

AUTO WORKERS v. SCOFIELD.
205

Opinion of the Court.

"circuit shopping" and useless proliferation of judicial
effort. Under § 10 (f), an aggrieved person has the
option of obtaining review either in the circuit in which
he maintains his residence or place of business or in the
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.
In the second appellate proceeding, he could obtain a
hearing in the circuit which did not originally decide the'
validity of the Board's dismissal of the complaint. Permitting intervention in the first review thus centralizes
the controversy and limits it to a single decision, accelerating final resolution. This is in accord with one of
the objectives of the Labor Act-the prompt determination of labor disputes.
Permitting intervention also insures fairness to the
would-be intervenor. If intervention is permitted, the
parties to the Board proceedings are able to present their
arguments on the issues to a reviewing court which has
not crystallized its views. To be sure, if intervention is
denied in the initial review proceeding, the charged party
would not be bound by the decision under technical res
judicata rules. Still, the salient facts having been resolved and the legal problems answered in this initial
review, subsequent litigation serves little practical value
to the potential intervenor. In the second appellate proceeding, the Court of Appeals would almost invariably
defer to the initial decision as a matter of 8tare decisis
or of comity.' See, e. g., Siegel Co. v. Labor Board, 340
6 In the rare instance in which the reviewing court does not abide
by these principles, an even more aggravated situation could result.
In the second review proceeding, if the now-successful charging party
is denied intervention and the appellate court takes a different view
of the applicable law, the charging party might -later have the opportunity to seek review again as a "person aggrieved." Thus, three
or even more review proceedings could be engendered out of the
failure to permit intervention at the most cdnvenient stage--the
initial review proceeding. Such an incongruous result should not be
sanctioned in light of our *statement in Ford Motor Co. v. Labor

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of the Court.

.
382 U. S.

F. 2d 309; Zdanok v. Glidden Co., 327 F. 2d 944, 949-950,
cert. denied, 377 U. S. 934.
Allowing intervention does not affect the discretionary
review powers of this Court._ :'One occupying the status
of intervenor in the Court of Appeals -proceeding may
seek certiorari from the decision there, Steelworkers v.
Labor Board, 373 U. S. 908, 376 U. S. 492; Mine Workers
v. Eagle-PicherCo., 325 U. S. 335, 338-339. Denial of
intervention in the initial review proceedings--and the
attendant remand to the Board and second appeal to the
Court of Appeals-only results in a. delay of the time
when the disaffected party may seek review here. Should
we decide to grant certiorari, the first review would seem
the more propitious time, since all the parties are then
before the Court and the dispute has been fully developed
without inconvenience to either private party. Steelworkers v. Labor Board, 376 U. S. 492, affords an apt
illustration. The Court of Appeals had permitted intervention to the charged party who sought review from the
adverse decision there. We reversed unanimously. The
Board itself had not sought certiorari because "the Solicitor General concluded that other cases were entitled to
priority in selecting the limited number of cases which
the government [could] properly ask this Court to review." Memorandum for the NLRB, p. 2, filed in connection with the petition for certiorari, No. 89, October
Term, 1963. Had the charged party been denied intervention in the Court of Appeals, the decision of the Government not to apply for certiorari-unrelated to the
merits of the cause-would have unnecessarily postponed
resolution on that important issue. T
Board, 305 U. S. 364, 370, that although "there are two proceedings,
separately carried on the docket, they were essentially one so far
as any question as to the legality of the Board's order was concerned."
7 The Labor Board may also adversely affect the rights'of
the
private parties in other instances. For example, the Board may

AUTO WORKERS v. SCOFIELD.
205

Opinion of the Court.

In fact, the Labor Board itself agrees that intervention by charged parties will not impair effective discharge
of its duties and may well promote the public interest.
The rights typically secured to an intervenor in a reviewing court-to participate in designating the record, to
participate in prehearing conferences preparatory to
simplification of the issues, to file a brief, to engage in
oral argument, to petition for rehearing in the appellate
court or to this Court for certiorari-are not productive of delay nor do they cause complications in the
appellate courts. Appellate records in Labor Board cases
are generally complete, and whatever material the
charged party may see fit to add to the appendix will not
affect the burden in preparation. Participation in defining the issues before the court guarantees that all relevant
material is brought to its attention, and makes the briefs
on the merits more meaningful. The charged party is
usually accorded the right as an amicus to file a brief
on the merits even if denied intervention. Participation
in oral argument does not necessarily enlarge the total
time allocated, since parties aligned on the same side are
usually required to share the time.8 And, as noted, petitioning for certiorari at this time has the salutary effect
of insuring prompt adjudication. Further, if a charged
party permitted to intervene decides to acquiesce in the
decide a case and later re-evaluate its position at a time when that
case is before an appellate court. The General Counsel, in such
a situation, cannot be expected wholeheartedly to attempt to convince an appellate court of the correctness of a doctrine which the

Board itself has abandoned.
8First Circuit Rule 28 (3); Second Circuit Rule 23 (c); Third
Circuit Rule 31 (3); Fourth Circuit Rule 15 (3); Fifth Circuit Rule
25 (3); Sixth Circuit Rule 20 (3); Seventh Circuit Rule 21 (b);
Eighth Circuit-Rule 13 (c); Ninth Circuit Rule 20 (3); Tenth Circuit
Rule 20 (3); District of Columbia Circuit Rule 19 (c).
Additionally, all the circuits have rules which permit the court to
increase the time for oral argument upon a showing of good cause.

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of the Court.

382 U. S.

decision or if certiorari is denied by this Court, it is likely

that he will then stipulate to the entry of an order against
him. This would obviate the need for supplemental
agency or court proceedings. On the other hand, an
amicus-with the exception of the right to file a briefmight be unable adequately to present all the relevant
data to the court.
Finally, an element of fortuity would be injected by
the denial of intervention to a successful party in the
Board proceedings. When the charged party loses before
the Board, he is accorded a statutory right to immediate
review and may seek or oppose this Court's ultimate review of the case. If he prevails at the agency level, however, denial of intervention deprives him of the rights
accorded a losing party, even though the issue before the
reviewing court is identical-whether a remedial order
should have been entered against the charged party.
These considerations lead us to the assumption that
Congress would not intend, without clearly expressing
a view to the contrary, that a party should suffer by his
own success before the agency.
Additionally, helpful analogies may be found in the
Judicial Review Act of 1950, governing intervention in
the Courts of Appeals by private parties directly affected
by agency orders,' and in the Federal Rules of Civil Pro]Review of commission orders in general is governed by the provisions of the -Judicial Review Act of 1950 (the Hobbs Act), 64 Stat.
1129, 5 U. S. C. §§ 1031-1042 (1964 ed.). The provision regarding
appellate court intervention, 5 U. S. C. § 1038, provides as follows:
"The Attorney General shall be responsible for and have charge
and control-of the interests of the Government iri all court liroceedings authorized by this chapter. The agency, and any party or
parties in interest in the proceeding before the agency whose interests
will be affected if an order of the agency is or is not enjoined, set
aside, or suspended, may appear as parties thereto of their own
motion and as of right, and be represented by counsel in aiy proceeding to review such order. .. ."

AUTO WORKERS v. SCOFIELD.
205

Opinion of the Court.

cedure. 10 We take these provisions to mean that Congress has exhibited a concern that interested private
parties be given a right to intervene and participate in
the review proceedings involving the specified agency
and its orders.
II.
The problem of whether intervention should be granted
to the successful charging party to the Labor Board proceedings presents considerations somewhat distinct from
the case of the intervening charged party. Resolution
of the problem is no easy matter, and it is understandable
that the courts have divided on the issue.11 Still, we
believe that Congress intended intervention rights to
obtain.
The Board opposes intervention in Fafnir. A charged
party may incur a liability on account of an order being
entered against him. Fairness to him thus requires that
10 The Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, of course, ap3ply only
in the federal district courts. Still, the policies underlying interven-

tion may be applicable in appellate courts. Under Rule 24 (a) (2)
or Rule 24 (b) (2), we think the charged party would be entitled
to intervene. See Missouri-Kansas Pipe Line Co. v. United States,
312 U. S. 502, 505-506; Textile Workers Union of America v. Allendale Co., 96 U. S. App. D. C. 401, 403-404, 226 F. 2d 765, 767-768.
The Advisory Panel on Labor-Management Relations Law issued
a report, S. Doc. No. 81, 86th Cong., 2d Sess. (1960), which contained a statement of policy that "any party to NLRB proceedings
should be allowed to intervene in the appellate proceedings," p. 17.
11 The cases which have permitted intervention usually have not
discussed the question, e. g., Labor Board v. Johnson, 322 F. 2d
216 (C. A. 6th Cir.); Kearney & Trecker Corp. v. Labo Board,
210 F. 2d 852 (C. A. 7th Cir.), cert. denied, sub nom. KearneyTrecker Employees, UAW v. Labor Board, 348 U. S. 824; West
Texas Utilities Co. v. Labor Board, 184 F. 2d 233 (C. A. D. C. Cir.),
cert. denied, 341 U. S. 939. Contra, Labor Board v. Retail Clerks
Assn., 243 F. 2d 777, 783 (C. A. 9th Cir.); Stewart Die Casting
Corp. v. Labor Board, 132 F. 2d 801 (C. A. 7th Cir.); Aluminum
Ore Co. v. Labor Board, 131 F. 2d 485, 488 (C. A. 7th Cir.).

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of the Court.

382 U. S.

he be allowed to intervene to preclude that possibility.
On the other hand, the Board reasons, the charging party12
stands only to become a beneficiary of an order entered.

As such, he is but another member of the public whose
interests the Board is designed to serve. The Labor
Board is said to be the custodian of the "public interest,"
to the exclusion of the so-called "private interests" at
stake. Support for this view is claimed to be found in
our decision in Amalgamated Util. Workers v. Consolidated Edison Co., 309 U. S. 261 (1940). Also, the Board
fears that enabling the intervenor to petition for certiorari from an adverse circuit decision will be inimical to
the public interest. We disagree.
In prior decisions, this Court has observed that the
Labor Act recognizes the existence of private rights
within the statutory scheme."3 These cases have, to be
sure, emphasized the "public interest" factor. To employ the rhetoric of "public interest," however, is not to
imply that the public right excludes recognition of parochial private interests. A perusal of the statutory
scheme and of the Board's Rules and Regulations is
illustrative.
Cf. Hart and Wechsler, The Federal Courts and The Federal
System, 326 (1953):
"Haven't you noticed how frequently the protected groups in an
administrative program pay for their protection by a sacrifice of
procedural and litigating rights? The agency becomes their champion 4nd they stand or fall by it. Does this phenomenon reflect
a disregard or a recognition of the equities of the situation ?"
See also Jaffe, The Public Right Dogma in Labor Board Cases, 59
Harv. L. Rev. 720 (1946).
13 Labor Board v. F.nsteel Metallurgical Corp., 306 U. S. 240,
258; Phelps Dodge Corp. v. Labor Board, 313 U. S. 177, 194;
Nathanson v. ,Labor Board, 344 U. S. 25, 27; Smith v. Evening
News Assn., 371 U. S. 195. See Jaffe, The Individual Right to Initiate Administrative Process, 25 Iowa L. Rev. 485, 528-531 (1940).
12

AUTO WORKERS v. SCOFIELD.
205

Opinion of the Court.

The statutory machinery begins with the filing of an
unfair labor practice charge by a private person, § 10 (b),
61 Stat. 146; see also, 24 Fed. Reg. 9102 (1959), 29 CFR
§ 102.9 (1965). When the General Counsel issues a complaint and the proceeding reaches the adjudicative stage,
the course the hearing will take is in the agency's control,
but the charging party is accorded formal recognition:
he participates in the hearings as a "party"; 14 he may
call witnesses and cross-examine others, may file exceptions to any order of the trial examiner, and may file a
petition for reconsideration to a Board order, 28 Fed.
Reg. 7973 (1963), as amended, 29 CFR § 102.46 (1965).
Of course, if the Board dismisses the complaint, he can
obtain review as a person aggrieved, which serves the
"public interest" by guaranteeing that the Board interpretation of the relevant provisions accords with the
intent of Congress.1
14

The NLRB Rules and Regulations and Statements of Procedure,
29 CFR § 102.8 (1965), afford the charging party this status. The
section provides as follows:
"The term 'party' as used herein shall mean ... any person named

or admitted as a party, or properly seeking and entitled as of right
to be admitted as a party, in any Board proceeding, including, without limitation, any person filing a charge or petition under the act,
any person named as respondent, as employer, or as party to a
contract in any proceeding under the act.. .

."

(Emphasis added.)

15 For an analysis of the rights of a charging party before the
Board, see Comment, 32 U. Chi. L. Rev. 786 (1965). Of course,
the considerations involved in determining whether the charging
party has certain rights before the Board are not dispositive on the
question of appellate intervention. In the first place, the need for
centralized control over the agency hearings and the standards under
which they operate is much greater at the administrative than the
appellate level, where perforce an adequate record has been made
for adjudication. Also, the statistics of the NLRB reveal that over
97% of the unfair labor practice charges are resolved before the
circuit court has entered a decree. 29 NLRB Ann. Rep. 178-179,.

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of the Court.

382 U. S.

And that the charging party may have vital "private
rights"'in the Board proceeding is clear in this very case,
which also involves, potentially, a breach of the parties'
collective bargaining agreement.1 6 Under our decisions
in the Steelworkers trilogy, 363 U. S. 564, 574, 593, and
Carey v. Westinghouse Corp., 375 U. S. 261, the Union
could take whatever contractual claim. it had to arbitration and from there to a federal court. And while it is
true that the rights and duties under § 301 (a) of the
Labor Act, 61 Stat. 156, are not coextensive with those
redressed in Labor Board proceedings, a determination
by an appellate court that the Union has no statutory
right to conduct its own time studies will surely have an
impact upon a later decision by an arbitrator or an appellate court under § 301 (a) on the contractual issue.
In short, we think that the statutory pattern of the
Labor Act does not dichotomize "public" as opposed to
"private" interests. Rather, the two interblend in the
intricate statutory scheme."' Nor do we think that our
holding in Amalgamated Util. Workers, 309 U. S. 261,
casts doubt on these notions. The Court there held that
private parties who initiated unfair labor practice charges
may not prosecute a contempt action against the charged
Table 7 (1964). This winnowing process diminishes once a case
is lodged in the circuit court and falls within our supervisory power
over the federal courts. Then, too, manpower and budgetary considerations are of great concern at the administrative level. These
factors are not nearly as great when a labor dispute reaches the
appellate courts since the Board will invariably appear to defend
its order.
"6In the Board's opinion in Fafnir, the charging party's interests
were referred to a dozen times as a statutory right of the "private
party," 146 N. L. R. B., at 1585-1587.
7 See Retail Clerks Local 137 v. Food Employers Council, Inc.,
.351 F. 2d 525.

AUTO WORKERS v. SCOFIELD.
205

Opinion of the Court.

party in the court which enforces the Labor Board order."S
In the sami case, the private parties had been permitted
to intervene in the Court of Appeals when the merits of
the Board's decision were at stake, 309 U. S., at 263. We
find nothing inconsistent in denying the right of a private
party to institute a contempt proceeding-where the
Board's expertness in achieving compliance with orders
is challenged-and, on the other hand, in permitting
intervention in a proceeding already in the court for decision. When the court is to rule on the merits of the
Board's order, the Act supports the view that it is the
court and not the agency which will define the public
interest, see § 10 (d), 49 Stat. 454, Ford Motor Co. v.
Labor Board, 305 U. S. 364.
The Board also argues that permitting intervention
will adversely affect its tactical or budgetary decision not
to bring a case-here for review. But the opportunity is
open to the Board to advise this Court whether a case
that the intervening charging party brings here is an
appropriate vehicle to raise important issues. And Con18 The Court placed great weight upon the language and legislative

history behind § 10 (a), 49 Stat. 453, as it read at that time:
"The Board is empowered, as hereinafter provided, to prevent any
person from engaging in any unfair labor practice (listed in section
8) affecting commerce. This power shall be exclusive, and shall
not be affected by any other means of adjustment or prevention
that has been or may be established by agreement, code, law, or
otherwise." (Emphasis added.)
The italicized portion of § 10 (a) was deleted in the Taft-Hartley
amendments to the Wagner Act in 1947, when Congress added the
union unfair labor practice provisions and enacted § 301 (a). While
it is true that the Labor Board does not confer a private administrative remedy, it is equally true that, since 1947, it serves substantially as an organ for adjudicating private disputes. See Report
of the Advisory Panel on Labor-Management Relations Law, supra,
n. 10, p. 5.

222

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of the Court.

382 U. S.

gress has entrusted to this Court, rather than the Labor
Board, discretionary jurisdiction to review cases decided
by the Courts of Appeals.19
Many of the considerations which favor intervention
in Scofield are also pertinent here. 0 Of special note is
the capriciousness we would have to ascribe to Congress
in refusing to afford the successful party to a Labor
Board proceeding an opportunity tantamount to that of
the unsuccessful party in persuading an appellate court.
The charging party, like the charged party, should not
be prejudiced by his success before the agency. Accordingly, we reverse both cases and remand them to the
respective courts for further proceedings.
It is so ordered.

"The Board also claims that the charging party, if permitted to
intervene, will be able to thwart proposed settlements between the
Board and the charged-party when the case is in the appellate court.
Nothing in the record indicates that this will be the consequence
of allowing intervention and we intimate no view on the question.
20
As in the case of the charged party, disallowing intervention
could lead to duplicity in appellate review, "circuit shopping," unfairness to the successful party to the Board proceedings, etc.

