UNITED GAS v. CALLERY PROPERTIES.

223

Syllabus.

UNITED GAS IMPROVEMENT CO. ET AL.
CALLERY PROPERTIES, INC., ET AL.

V.

FOR
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 21.

Argued October 18-19, 1965.-Decided December 7, 1965.*

Following this Court's decision in the CATCO case, 360 U. S. 378,
and its vacation of a judgment upholding initial natural gas prices
of 21.40 to 23.80 per Mcf. for numerous gas producers in southern
Louisiana, the Federal Power Commission (FPC) instituted an
area rate proceeding, from which the present applications were
severed for a separate hearing. The producers were advised that
they would have to refund amounts ultimately found inconsistent
with the public interest and necessity requirements of § 7 of the
Natural Gas Act. Following the hearing the FPC imposed conditions on the certificates granted, viz., that (1) the producers
start service at 18.50 per Mcf., plus 1.50 tax reimbursement where
applicable-the "in-line" price for FPC-certificated gas sales for
the contracts here involved, and (2) the producers should not,
before establishment of just and reasonable area rates or July 1,
1967, whichever should be earlier, file rates above 23.550, the level
at which the FPC found filings might trigger other producers'
increased rates under contract escalation clauses with the pipelines here involved. The FPC also ordered refunded the excess
of charges under the original certificate, over the proper initial
prices. The Court of Appeals held on review that (1) the producers should not have been limited to an initial "in-line" gas
price without the FPC's considering evidence of what would be a
just and reasonable price; (2) the FPC lacked power to fix a
producer's maximum future rates; and (3) the measure of the
refunds should have been the difference bQtween the originar contract price and the ultimate just and reasonable price. Held:
1. The FPC had ample power under § 7 of the Natural Gas
Act to protect the public interest by requiring as an interim
*Together with No. 22, Public Service Commission of New York v.
Callery Properties,Inc., et al., No. 26, Ocean Drilling & Exploration
Co. v. Federal Power Commission et al., and No. 32, Federal Power
Commission v. Callery Properties, Inc., et al., also on certiorari to
the same court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Syllabus.

382 U. S.

measure that interstate gas prices be no higher than existing
levels under other contemporaneous certificates, i. e., the "in-line"
prices, without considering the extensive evidence under which
just and reasonable rates are fixed under § 5. Pp. 227-228.
2. It was a proper exercise of its acfninistrative expertise for
the FPC to fix the 23.550 rate limit, beyond which it found that a
general price rise -might be triggered by escalation during the
interim period. Pp. 228-229.
3. In the exercise of its authorized power to order that refunds
be paid as promptly as possible, the FPC could properly measure
the refunds due by the difference between the original contract
rates which it had erroneously sanctioned and the "in-line" rates;
and the FPC was justified in imposing interest to prevent unjust
enrichment. Pp. 229-230.
335 F. 2d 1004, reversed.

Richard A. Solomon argued the cause for the Federal
Power Commission. With him on the brief were Acting
Solicitor General Spritzer, Howard E. Wahrenbrock,
Robert L. Russell and Josephine H. Klein.
William T. Coleman, Jr., argued the cause for United
Gas Improvement Co. et al., petitioners in No. 21 and
respondents in No. 26. With him on the briefs were
Samuel Graff Miller, Richardson Dilworth, Harold E.
Kohn, Bertram D. Moll and Vincent P. McDevitt.
Kent H. Brown argued the cause for Public Service
Commission of New York, petitioner in No. 22 and
respondent in No. 26. With him on the briefs was
Morton L. Simon8.
J. Evans Attwell argued the cause for Ocean Drilling &
Exploration Co., petitioner in No. 26 and respondent in
Nos. 21, 22 and 32. With him on the briefs were W. H.
Drushel, Jr., J. A. O'Connor,Jr., and H. Y. Rowe.
Herbert W. Varner argued the cause for Superior Oil
Co. et al., respondents in Nos. 21, 22 and 32. With him
on the brief was H. H. Hillyer, Jr.

UNITED GAS v. CALLERY PROPERTIES. 225
Opinion of the Court.

223

Richard F. Generelly argued the cause and filed a brief
for Callery Properties, Inc., respondent in Nos. 21, 22
and 32.
Paul W. Hicks argued the cause for Placid Oil Co.
et al., respondents in Nos. 21, 22 and 26. With him on
the brief were Robert W. Henderson and Thomas G.
Crouch.
H. H. Hillyer, Jr., filed a brief for J. R. Frankel et al.,
respondents in Nos. 21, 22 and 32.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Federal Power Commission in 1958-1959 granted
unconditional certificates of public convenience and
necessity to numerous producers of gas in south Louisiana, the sales contracts of the producers calling for
initial prices ranging from 21.4 cents to 23.8 cents per
Mcf. After deliveries commenced under those contracts,
consumer interests challenged the orders in various
courts of appeals. The Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit sustained the Commission's action (United Gas
Improvement Co. v. Federal Power Comm'n, 269 F. 2d
865) but we vacated the judgment (Public Service
Comm'n v. Federal Power Comm'n, 361 U. S. 195) for
reconsideration in light of Atlantic Refining Co. v. Public Service Comm'n (CATCO), 360 U. S. 378; and the
other courts of appeals did likewise. 1
The Commission thereupon instituted an area rate
proceeding for south Louisiana and consolidated the re, See United Gas Improvement Co. v. Federal Power Comm'n,
283 F. 2d 817; Public Service Comm'n v. Federal Power Comm'n,
109 U. S. App. D. C. 292, 287 F. 2d 146; Uiited Gas Improvement
Co. v. Federal Power Comm'n, 287 F. 2d 159; United Gas Improvement Co. v. Federal Power Comm'n, 290 F. 2d 133; and United Gas
Improvement Co. v. Federal Power Comm'n, 290 F. 2d 147.
786-211 0-66-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of the Court.

382 U. S.

manded cases with that proceeding. 25 F. P. C. 942.
It advised the producers of their potential obligation to
refund any amounts eventually found to be inconsistent
"with the requirements of the public interest and necessity" under § 7 of the Natural Gas Act, 52 Stat. 824, as
amended, 15 U. S. C. § 717f. 27 F. P. C. 15. Later
the Commission in the interest of expedition severed the
present, group of applications and set them for a hearing in a consolidated proceeding under § 7. 27 F. P. C.
482. At the end, the Commission imposed two conditions on the certificates granted in these cases. First,
it provided that the producers commence service at
18.5 cents per Mcf., plus 1.5 cents tax reimbursement
where applicable, a price that it found to be "in line"
with prices for Commission-certificated sales of gas from
the southern Louisiana production area under generally
contemporaneous contracts, 30 F. P. C. 283, 288-289.
Second, it provided that until just and reasonable area
rates are determined for south Louisiana, or until July 1,
1967, whichever is earlier, the producers shall not file any
increased rates above 23.55 cents, the level at which rate
filings might trigger increased rates by other producers
under the escalation provisions of their contracts with
the pipeline companies here involved. 30 F. P. C. 283,
298.
In addition, the Commission ordered the producers to
refund to their customers the amounts in excess -of the
proper initial price which they had already collected
under the original certificate. 30 F. P. C. 283i 290.
On review the Court of Appeals held that the Commission erred in limiting producers to an initial "in-line"
price without first canvassing evidence bearing on the
question of what would be a just and reasonable price
for the gas. It further held that the Commission had
no power to place an upper limit on future rates that a
producer might file. Finally, the Court of Appeals, while

UNITED GAS v. CALLERY PROPERTIES.
223

227

Opinion of the Court.

upholding the power of the Commission to order refunds,
held that the measure of such refunds was not to be the
difference between the "in-line" price and the original
contract price, but between the latter and the just and
reasonable price subsequently to be fixed. 335 F. 2d
1004. We granted certiorari, 380 U. S. 931. We reverse
the Court of Appeals.
We think the Commission acted lawfully and responsibly in line with our decision in the CA TCO case where
we held that it need not permit gas to be sold in the
interstate market at the producer's contract price, pending determination of just and reasonable rates under § 5,
52 Stat. 823, 15 U. S. C. § 717d. 360 U. S. 378, 388-391.
2
Rather, we held that there is ample power under § 7 (e),
to attach appropriate protective 'conditions. And see
Federal Power Comm'n v. Hunt, 376 U. S. 515, 524-527.
The fixing of an initial "in-line" price establishes a firm
price at which a producer may operate, pending determination of a just and reasonable rate, without any contingent obligation to make refunds should a just and reasonable rate turn out to be lower than the "in-line" price.
Consumer protection is afforded by keeping the "in-line"
price at the level where substantial amounts of gas have
been certificated to enter the market under other contemporaneous certificates, no longer subject to judicial review
or in any way "suspect." We believe the Commission can
properly conclude under § 7 that adequate protection to
the public interest requires as an interim measure that
gas not enter the interstate market at prices higher than
existing levels. To consider in this § 7 proceeding the
mass of evidence relevant to the fixing of just and rea2

Section 7 (e) provides in part:

"The Commission shall have the power to attach to the issuance
of the certificate and to the exercise of the rights granted thereunder such reasonable terms and conditions as the public convenience
and necessity may require."

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opiniun of the Court.

382 U. S.

sonable rates under § 5 might in practical effect render
nugatory any effort to fix initial prices.' We said in
CATCO that § 7 procedures are designed "to hold the
line awaiting adjudication of a just and reasonable rate"
(360 U. S., at 392), and that "the inordinate delay" in
§ 5 proceedings (360 U. S.; at 391) should not cripple
them.
The second condition, which temporarily bars rate
increases beyond 23.55 cents per Mcf., was likewise aimed
at keeping the general price level relatively constant
pending determination of the just and reasonable rate.
We noted in Federal Power Comm'n v. Hunt, supra, at
524, that "a triggering of price rises often results from the
out-of-line initial pricing of certificated gas" and that the
possibility of refund does not afford sufficient protection.
And see Federal Power Comm'n v. Texaco Inc., 377 U. S.
33, 42-43. We think, contrary to the Court of Appeals,
that there was ample power under § 7 (e) for the Commission to attach these conditions for consumer protection during this interim period though the certificate was
not a temporary one, as in Hunt, but a permanent one,
a In the early post-CATCO cases, the Commission apparently
proceeded on a case-by-case basis, considering whatever evidence
might have been presented. See, e. g., Continental Oil Co., 27
F. P. C. 96, 102-108. Experience convinced it that the minimal
utility derived from cost and economic trend evidence was outweighed by the administrative burdens and delays its consideration
inevitably produced. See Skelly Oil Co., 28 F. P. C. 401, 410-412.
The Commission properly and constructively exercised its discretion
in declining to consider this large quantity of evidence. To have
done so would have required a considerable expenditure of manpower, cf. Wisconsin v. Federal Power Comm'n, 373 U. S. 294, 313.
We have previously encouraged the Commission to devise reasonable
means of streamlining its procedures, see Federal Power Comm'n v.
Hunt, supra, at 527, and we regard the Commission's decision here
as an appropriate step in that direction. Cf. FederalPower Comm'n
v. Texaco Inc., 377 U. S.33, 44.

UNITED GAS v. CALLERY PROPERTIES. 229
223

Opinion of the Court.

as in CATCO and Federal Power Comm'n v. Texaco
Inc., supra.
The "in-line" price of 18.5 cents is supported by the
contract prices in the south Louisiana area that were not
"suspect," and the selection of 23.55 cents beyond which
a price increase might trigger escalation reflects the Commission's expertise.
We also conclude that the Commission's refund order
was allowable. We reject, as did the Court of Appeals
below, the suggestion that the Commission lacked authority to order any refund. While the Commission "has
no power to make reparation orders," Federal Power
Comm'n v. Hope Natural Gas Co., 320 U. S. 591, 618,
its power to fix rates under § 5 being prospective only,
Atlantic Refining Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, supra,
at 389, it is not so restricted where its order, which never
became final, has been overturned by a reviewing court.
Here the original certificate orders were subject to judicial review; and judicial review at times results in the
return of benefits received under the upset administrative order. See Securities & Exchange Comm'n v. Chenery Corp., 332 U. S. 194, 200-201. An agency, like a
court, can undo what is wrongfully done by virtue of its
order. Under these circumstances, the Commission
could properly conclude that the public interest required
the producers to make refunds 4 for the period in which.
4The
problem of refunds for amounts collected above the "in-line"
price is not affected here by any filing under § 4 for increases within
the limits of the triggering moratorium. 52 Stat. 822, 15 U. S. C.
§ 717c. Under § 4 (d), a 30-day notice to the Commission and to
the public is required for all rate increases, the Commission having
authority under § 4 (e) to suspend the new rate for five months
and thereafter to act only "after full hearings." If the Commission
has not acted at the expiration of the period of suspension, the new
rates become effective. The Commission may require the producer
to furnish a bond, and thereafter may compel refund of "the portion
of such increased rates or charges by its decision found not justified."

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of

HARLAN,

J.

382 U. S.

they sold their gas at prices exceeding those properly
determined to be in the public interest.
We think that the Commission could properly measure
the refund by the difference between the rates charged
and the "in-line" rates to which the original certificates
should have been conditioned. The Court of Appeals
would delay the payment of the refund until the "just
and reasonable" rate could be determined. We have
said elsewhere that it is the duty of the Commission,
"where refunds are found due, to direct their payment
at the earliest possible moment consistent with due
process." Federal Power Comm'n v. Tennessee Gas
Transmission Co., 371 U. S. 145, 155. These excessive
rates have been collected since 1958; under the circumstances, the Commission was not required to delay this
refund further. And the imposition of interest on refunds is not an inappropriate means of preventing unjust
enrichment. See Texaco, Inc. v. FederalPower Comm'n,
290 F. 2d 149, 157; Philip Carey Mfg. Co. v. Labor
Board, 331 F. 2d 720, 729-731.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE FORTAS took no part in the consideration
or decision of these cases.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, concurring in part and dissenting
in part.
. While the Commission's expansive view
of its powers
seems to me largely defensible in the abstract, I believe
its actual decision reveals error and unfairness in important respects.
The price condition; alone of the three key prongs of
the Commission's order, can in my view be wholly sustained. The chief challenge to it stems from the exclu-

UNITED GAS v. CALLERY PROPERTIES.
223

Opinion of

231

HARLAN, J.

sion in the § 7 hearing of a mass of cost and supply1
demand evidence tendered by producers. Although the
encompassing § 7 standard of public convenience and
necessity encourages a broad inquiry, the Commission has
given valid reasons for limiting itself to the in-line price
for the time being. Area pricing ultimately aims to simplify proceedings under the *statute,but the transition to
it is said to strain the Commission's present resources for
investigation. See Wisconsin v. FPC,373 U. S. 294, 298300, 313-314. The in-line price, comparatively easy to
fix, provides a firm basis for producers, helps avoid unrefundable initial overcharges, and exerts a downward pressure on price; at the same time, producers can file increases under § 4 with a six-month delay at most. The
2
Commission has given a fair trial to cost evidence, and
nothing in the offer of proof suggests a supply-demand
crisis warranting court intervention with this administrative approach.
In locating the in-line price, the Commission has ignored a number of contemporaneous high-price contracts
labeled "suspect" because then under review, disapproved, or deemed influenced by those under review or
disapproved. Although the danger of using a c-rooked
measuring rod demands some precaution, this blanket
exclusion also chances some distortion in favor of an
unduly low in-line price. In the main the producers
have chosen not to brief this question, apparently under
the misapprehension that the Government has not here
sought to sustain the exclusion of these contracts or that
the lower court's failure to reach the question precluded
this Court from doing so. 3 But while the suspect order
rule may by default be abided in this instance, I would
I Section citations herein are all to the Natural Gas Act, 52 Stat.
821, as amended, 15 U. S. C. §§ 717-717w (1964 ed.).
2See the majority's note 3, ante, p. 228.
3 See Petition of the FPC for Certiorari, p. 15, n. 14.

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of

HARLAN,

J.

382 U. S.

not close the door to future arguments for a different
solution of the dilemma.
A last troubling aspect of the in-line price derives from
a critical and unusual circumstance: it, like the other
conditions in this case, was imposed for the first time on
remand, several years after an unconditioned permanent
certificate had issued. Presumably for six months hence,
producers will be compelled to sell at a price they might
not have accepted when free to refuse; for all that
appears, the price may even be below cost, let alone a
fair profit. However, in general the producers apparently did not seek an option to cancel future sales if dissatisfied by the newly conditioned certificates, the sixmonth delay is both brief and familiar, and I cannot say
the Commission did not have a legitimate interest in
imposing the in-line price at the time it did.
II.
The price-increase moratorium also, seems to me -a
measure not generally beyond the Commission's grasp,
but it should not be sustained on the record before us.
Recognizing force in the contrary view of the Court of
Appeals, I do not believe that § 4 must be read to bestow
on producers an invincible right to raise prices subject
only to a six-month delay and refund liability. Cf. FPC
v. Texaco Inc., 377 U. S. 33; FPC vHunt, 376 U. S. 515.
A freeze until 1967 is not permanent price-fixing, and in
this interregnum between individual and area pricing,
the hazard of irreversible price increases warrants imposing spme brake. A lengthy moratorium-coupled with
a refusal to consider cost or supply-demand figures in setting prices for the duration-might present a real risk of
choking off supply, but such a case'is not before us.
Nevertheless, a moratorium instituted on remand is a
hazardous device at best, and the present one is simply
not supported by evidence. Because the producers have

UNITED GAS v. CALLERY PROPERTIES.
223

Opinion of

HARLAN,

233

J.

no chance to refuse the certificates after commencing delivery, the ceiling may coerce sales at unfairly low prices.
Yet while the present moratorium must be endured
longer than the in-line price, at least it permits the producers to charge a markedly higher amount; and as the
safety valve for a price explosion, the moratorium could
be upheld. At this point, however, the Government's
argument fails for lack of proof-that a price explosion is
likely if increases rise above the moratorium figure. The
Commission's figure was not considered by its hearing
examiner, who made no recommendation for a moratorium. The Commission report itself devotes no more
than one conclusory sentence, qualified by a footnote, to
the question of what specific price rise will trigger increases -t large, 30 F. P. C., at 298; rather than amplifying, the Government brief merely contends that the
point has not been adequately preserved under § 19-a
contention I do not accept.' Several producers state that
the Commission's fear of triggering has not been realized
although sales are currently being made by them at
levels above the intended moratorium price.
III.

"

While agreeing that the Commission has power to
order refunds in the case before us, I believe the measure
of repayment it selected is illogical and harsh. On the
initial question of power, it must be conceded that noth4 This precise ground of attack upon the moratorium was set forth
by at least one producer. See ODECO Application for Rehearing
Before the FPC. R. 603. Applications of other producers argued
instead that any moratorium was plainly illegal under the Fifth Circuit's decision in Hunt v. FPC,306 F. 2d 334, which had not then
been reversed by this Court. 376 U. S. 515. See Petition of Placid
Oil et al. for Rehearing Before the FPC, p. 35.' Under these circumstances, § 19 does not seem to me to preclude allowing all
producers the benefit of the error pinpointed by ODECO.

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of

HARLAN,

J.

382 U. S.

ing in the statute provides for refunds when a sale has
been approved without qualification; but approval in
the present instances had not become final for want of
judicial review, and an equitable power to order refunds
may fairly be implied.
The measure of refunds is another matter. The Commission has now directed that the producers repay the
difference between the amounts collected over four to
six years and the figure it has now established as the
original in-line price.5 Since the in-line price has been
fixed without reference to cost evidence and falls below
the opening levels set in the negotiated contracts, the
producers may well be receiving less than cost, as some
of them expressly claim; and this imposed revision downward of prices covers not six months but a period of
years.
The obvious refund formula, implicated by the statute
itself and adopted by the Court of Appeals, would call
for repayment of all amounts collected in excess of the
"just and reasonable" price; that price, measured under
§§ 4 and 5, naturally takes due account of costs. The
Government retorts that producers have no "right" to
sell their gas for a "just and reasonable" price under the
statute, a proposition perhaps true in the limited sense
that the public convenience and necessity might yet exclude fair-profit sales by a uniquely high cost producer
or in the face of a glutted market. No attempt is made,
however, to class the present facts with such imaginable
situations. Nor is advance exclusion from the interstate
5 Deliveries commenced under all or nearly all the
contracts in
1959 at prices exceeding 18.5 cents. The Commission's order directing the in-line price, refunds, and the moratorium issued four years
later in 1963, and it has been under judicial review for -the past two
years. The record does not clearly indicate what rate increases the
producers may already have filed with the Commission.

UNITED GAS v. CALLERY PROPERTIES. 235
Opinion of

223

HARLAN, J.

market so fearsome as an unexpected repricing of a completed sale depriving the seller of profit or costs.
On the present facts the Government has failed to
point to any public interest overriding the potent claims
of the producers to a fair return on their past four to six
years of sales. Any triggering caused by the amounts
previously charged has already spent its force and cannot be undone. Unconvincingly, the Government implies the producers may be comparatively well off with
the present formula because it provides a final figure now
and the "just and reasonable" price might prove to be
below the in-line price; however, instant certainty as to
past prices is no great gain since taxes and royalties have
already been paid, and the chance that producers may
get more than they deserve by following the in-line
price is not a substitute for assuring them a fair return.
'About the only concrete advantage cited by the Government for the in-line price is that it speeds refunds to
consumers. Assuming that a compromise cannot be
reached as in other cases,' elaborate cost data should
become available in the next year or two with the completion of the southern Louisiana area rate proceeding.
Consumers, who assuredly expected no refunds when
they paid their gas bills as long ago as six years, certainly do not suffer seriously in waiting a bit longer for
refunds that individually must be minute in most cases.
The incongruity of the Commission's refund -formufa is
well portrayed by considering what would have happened
if the Commission had originally .granted the certificates
now thought proper by this Court. By accepting certificates conditioning sales at the in-line price, the producers
several occasions, the Commission has approved agreements
by producers to refund a fixed fraction of the difference between the
amounts collected and the settlement price. See Texaco Inc., 28
F. P. C. 247 (other producers severed from the instant case);
* .Continental Oil Co., 28 F. P. C. 1090 (on remand from CATCO).
6 On

236

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of

HARLAN,

J.

382 U. S.

could immediAtely have filed for increases, suffering at
most a six-month delay. Even if the Commission's
moratorium survived, the ceiling during this four-to-sixyear period. would have been 23.55 cents rather than the
18.5-cent figure now imposed. Thus, even had the Commission not erred in the first instance in favor of the
producers, they still could have collected payments well
in excess of 18.5 cents subject only to the ultimate finding of a "just and reasonable" price now denied them by
the Commission.
In line with the foregoing discussion, I would uphold
the Commission's decision fixing an in-line price, remand
the case for further findings on the triggering price for a
moratorium if the Commission wishes to pursue the point,
and set aside the refund with leave to order repayments
based on the "just and reasonable" price.

