344

SUPREME COURT U. %

OWIlJGS
V.

NOaw Oo's
LEssEE.

OWINGS v. NORWOOD'S LESSEE.,

In an action of ERROR to the court of appeals of Maryland,-being
be- the highest court of law and equity in hat state, in
ejento
tti
la
i
tween two Citi-

zens or Mnary- an 'action of ejectment brought by the defendant

Mland in Ma- against the plaintiff in error, both parties being citiryland, if the zens of Maryland, for a tract of land in Baltimore
y, called " The Discovery," being part of atri4ct
defendant set n
typr
up an outstar
ding title in a of land called Brown's Adventure, originally patented
British subject for 1 000 icres to Thomas Brown, in the year. 1695,
7
which he contends is pro. who conveyed to John Gadsby, who conveyed
ane Aaron Rawlins in 1703, who mortgaged in fee
tected
treaty, by and

to
to
therefore the Jonathan Scarth, a London merchant, by deed of
title is of the bargain and sale, in ,1706, with a proviso'to b6 void
plaintiff; and
the - highest up0n paVment of 8001. sterling, with interest, on the
state court in 13th of Mty, 1709. Scarth and his heirs were alMaryland de- wIys British"subjects resident in England, and never
Maryland
ctides against
the title thus w :re in Maryland; but Scarth was charged withthe
-itrents, in the Lord Proprietor's debt-books, up
set up; itis not
,
a case in whi,qC
Rawlins, however,
a writ of error to the time of .the revolution.
lie tocourt
the by his will, in 1741, devised the-land specifically to
can
8upre.
of tie United some of his children, without taking any
In 1732, Littleton Waters
"the inortgage.
States.

notice of
attached,

It is not "a
and obtained judgment of condemnation against the
t
case ish
under a trell- land, for a debt due to him from Scarth, but never
took out any execution upon the judgment; and y
." Tejiciary act must
be restrained eed of lease and release assigned all his right in
bytiohe ofthe the land'to the Baltimore company, under whom the
United States. plaintiffin error claims.

In October, 1794, Norwood obtained an escheat
warrant to affect the tract called Brown's Adventure,
upon suggestion of a defect of heirs of Brown, .the
original patentee. ,In June, 1800, he obtained a patent
from the state founded upon the proceedings under
that.warrant, for 520' 1-2 acres, being part of Brown's
Adventure, with an addition of 26 acres of vacant
land, and thereapon brought his actio6x of ejectment
against Owings. Upon the trial the origin.1 defend-

FEBRUARY, 1800;

345

ant, in order to show an existing title Out of the OwNG's.
plaintiff, contended that the mortgage to Sarth *as N.w&'s
protected from-confiscation by the Britiih treaty of Lssr.
1794, and was still a security for 'the mdney to -the
representatives of Scarth, who were proved to be still
living in Jngland. "But the court were, of opinion
that on the expiration of the time limited -in the
.mortgage for the payment of the money, a complete
legal estate of inheritance vested in the mortgagee
liable to confiscation; and was vested in the state by
virtue of the'act of confiscation of Octobe, session,
1780, c. 45, and the act of the same s~s~ion, (c. 49.)
(to. appoint commis.ioners,) subject t6 the right of
redemption in the mortgagor andhis heirs, and that
the British treaty cannot operate to affect the plaintiff's right to recover in this ejectment."
The verdict aid ju'dgment ofthe gineral court
being affirmed, in the court of appeals- of Maryland,
aid being against the right claimed under the treat-y,
Owings sued out his writ of error under the provisions of the 25th section of the judicary act, vol. 1.
p. 63. which enacts, that a final judgment in the
'highest court .of a state, in a suit "whereis drawn
in question the construction of-any clause of a treaty,.
and the decision is against'the right claimed undei
such clau'se of the treaty, may be re-examined and
reversed or affirmed in the supreme- court of the
Uhited States."
Harper, for the plainfiff in error,
The question in this. case is;. whether Scarth's interest in the land was protected' by the treaty of
peace with' Great Britain. By-the 5th article of tha
treaty " it is agreed that all persons who have any
interest in confiscated la~nds, either by debt , marriage
settlements, or otherwise, shall meet with no lawful
impediment in the prosecution of their just rights."
The case, of ifgginson and Mblein, 'decided by this
court, (ante, vol. 4.'p. 415.) was; in substance, the
same as this. In both, the tihe of payment had
passed before the confiscation; and the legal estate
Vol, V.

Xx

846
OwrIuN
V.
NoiWOUD'S

LessszE

SUPREME COURT XY. S.

was in a British subject;

The comrt in that case de-

cided that the confiscation did not destroy the lien
which the British creditor had in.the land under the

mortgage.
LXVINGsrO, J. Could the-mortgagor, si.ty or
seventy-,years after the time of payment;' maintain f
bill to redeem?
Harper- The mortgagee never was in possession
of the lanid; the lapse of time, therefbre, would ra-

ther operate as a bar to foreclosure than redemption.

Ridgely, contra.
By the act of assembly of Maryland, passed at
October session, 1780, c. 45,'and c. 49. all the pro-

perty in that state belonging to British subjects,'except debts. was confiscated and vested in the 'statd,
.Without inquest of offce, or entry, 'or any other act.
to be done. The' statute operated a'complete change
of property and possession.
This was not at that time a debt due to.Scarth.
Vlearly a century'had elapsed since the mortgage
was forfeited. Ther6 was no covenant in the mortgage for payment of the money; no bond taken, or
other evidence of a- debt. Rawlins never took any
measures to redeem, but abandoned the pledge, as
an absolute sale. It is a general principle in equity
thai the mortgagor shal not redeem if the mortgagee has been in possession twenty years after forfeiture of the mortgage. It was not fiecessary for
Scarth to file a bill to foreclose; because the right to
redeem was barred by his tiventy year6' possession.
If Rawlins could not have redeemed in 1780, the
estate was absolute in Scar h, and the confiscation,
was complete. .There is'no case -in England, or
Maryland, where the mortgagor has been peimitted
to redeem after twenty years, if no interest has been
paid, or account kept between the parties., Pow. 0on
Mort. 152. 3 P. Wis 287. 2 Atk. 496, 2 Vern.

FEBRUARY, 1809. '
418. 3 Bac. Abr. 655.
467.

1 P. Wins.

2;

15 rln.

But if Scarth's heirs iaight avail theinselves of the
treaty, it is not competent 'f6r a third person to set
it up. Or if it is, it will not give this-court .jurisdiction.
.ohnson, Attorney-General of 'Maryla nd, on -the
same side
If the judgment below be" not against a right
claimed under the --treaty, if it be not a case arising
under the treaty, this court has no jurisdiction.
In this case Owings. claims no. right under'the
treaty. Scarth's right; whatever it may. be, is not
affected by the decision -of tfiis case. It is he only
who could claim the benefit ofthe treaty. But he
is not a paity in the suit. It is, therefore, not a
case arising uqder the treaty,.
MARSrAYL,

!Ch. J. There are only two points

in this case.
1. Whether Scarth had .such an interest as was
protected by the treaty; and,
2, Whether the' present case be a case -arising!
under a treaty,. within the meaning of the constitu..
tion.
This court has no doubt upon either point.
The interest by debt intended to be protected by
the treaty, must be an, interest holden as a security
for money at the time of the treaty;. and the debt
must still remain due.
The -25th sedion of tihe judiciary act rfust be iestrained by the constitution, the words of which are,
" all cases arising under treaties." The plaintiff in
error does not contend that his right grows out of

OWINGS°
NORWoOD'S

348

SUPREMECURT U. S.

OWI4GO8
the.treaty. Whether.tis an 6bstaddle to kihp plain,OAwooDs tifrs recovery is a question 'exclusively for the d&c1"Lasssz. sion of the courts of Maryland.

kliarper, unthe next day, having suggested to the
court hait he, ufAlerstood the opinion to be 'that this'
court had no jurisdiction to revise the decisions- of
the state courts, in cases where the construction of a
treaty *as drawn in qiestion i/'ddentdlly, and viherje
the party himself did" not claim title under a treaty
w.as about to make some further 'observations on
those poins, when
MARSHALL, Ch. J. lobgerved) 'tht,'Mr. Harper.
had misunders-.ood the opigion of the court, in that
"resnect. It was not 'dith this court had'notjuris"diction if the treaty were drawn in qdesfion ini"dentally,

The reason for ifserting that clausae in the conti'"eal'airstution was, that. all pe'rson's who have
under a treaty should have their caiques decided by
. It was to avoid he qppre-the national tribuns1
hension as well as the dianger of state prejttdices.
The words of the constitution air ', "cases arisiny
.nder tfeaies."'. Each treaty itipulates somqthing
respecting the citizens of the two natiotls, and gives
tlhm rights. Whenever a right gro' s out of, or
"i:
proteeted by,-a ireat,'it-'is auactioned agaipst-all
-the laws and judicial decisions 'of *the stdte; and
whoever may have this right,, it' is to be protected-.
But if the person's title is notaffected by the treaty,
if he claim, nothing under a treaty',his tidle cannot
be protected by the treaty. , If Scarth or his heirs.
had-claitned, it would have been a case arising
;wder a .-treaty. BUt neither the title' of Scarb,
4ior of any-person claiming under him, can b affected by the decision.of this cause.
farper. The opinion is more limited tha
.J_
apprehended. But in this case the. land is claimed as
tonfiscate'd, and the question is, hetler the plain-

TEBRUARY,

1809.

349

tiff'is tiIe, by confiscation, is good under the treaty;
v,
The defendant has a good title against every body Noiwoooe*
LE$ .
who cannot show a better., He has a'right to protect himself, by showing that the plaintiff has no,
title. In crder to do this- he insists that the title
of t)ie plaintiff -is iuconsi~tent with the treaty. He
has a right to 'set iop the treaty inklopposition to the
confiscating act of Mairyland.

Martin, on the same side.
The reason 9f the clause in the constitution was,
,that there might be uniformity of decision upon all
questions arising upon the construciion of the constitution, and laws and treaties of the United States.
In every case, the questi6n concerning a -treaty
must come on incidentally. The intentioi was,
that wherever a state court should decide' against
a claim, set up under the construction of a* treaty,
such decision should be examinable in this, court.
This was the cotemporaneous exposition given
to the constitutibn by the first congress, convened
under that constitution, and which was composed
of, a great number of the leading' members of the
convention by which -the constitution was framed;
and who must have well'known what was the Intention of that body in adopting that article.
The right of the plaintiff torecover ih this suit,
and the iight of the defendant to retain the possession as against this plaintiff, depend upon-the. treaty.,
The property haviit .bden once granted, the state
could not again acquire the title but by escheat ot,
confiscation. Fhe court -below decided, thit it was.
not a case of escheat, because the heirs of 'Sartl"
were living. Whether the property was confiscated'
within, the meaning of the treaty,- is tjerefore the
only, remaining questio, uporn the merits- of the
case. That quostion, however, is not before thls
co-art, until'this court shall decide whether they are

SUPREME COURT YT.S.
-binNas
NORWOo3v*

Lzssa.
'

competent to consider it in this case- We conseider'thejudiciary itct as a correct exposition of tire
constitution in thiWrespect;, and that-this is clearly
gi case Within the provisions of the'25th section'of
that act.
This argument produced no alteration.in the opinion of the court; and'the

Writ of error was dismissed.',A
0 As this cause occupied a considerable portion of the time and talents of the courts and bar of Maryland, and as it decided sei'eral
important points in that state, it i-'!eemed not improper to give a short
abstract of the efse as it appears iin the bills of' exception. "

'Upon the trial, the defendant Owings took 10 bills of exception.
The tst bill of exceptions stated that thi plaintiff offered in evidence
a patent.from the. lord proprietor of Maryland to Thomas Brown, .ated November 10, 1695, for a tract of land called Brown's Adveniture,
containing 1,000 acres. Also a patent from the state of Maryliqd to Ed.
ward Norwood, the original" plaintiff in this action, dated 25th June,
1800, for a tract of land' called 1 The fliscoverj,"cntaiping 5-20 iacres, included' within the lines of Brown's Adventure. The defendant
o'ffered evidence that the heirs of Brown, the original patentee, were
itill livin in Maryland. The- defendant offered. iii evidence a deed
from Brown to Gadsby, dated May 2, 1700, on which was an endorsement dated May 4, 1699, purporting to be a receipt for the
alienation
fine due to *thelord proprietor. And the following "M em orandum :
That the date of this was originally acc6rding to the date of the above
re4eipt, but aliened by consent of the provinciaL court and parties, to
bringit. within the act of assembly.
€"Wr TAYLARD."

*hereupon the defendant prayed the court to instruct the ju'ry that
if they were of opinion that the endaorsements were made at the request of Gadsby the grautee, and with his privit and consent, and
that the deed with the endorsements was recordedfor his benefit, and
with his assent, then the 'ehdorzersents are competent to be read in
evidence to support the facts therein contained against the title of
Gadsby to the lands in the deed mentioned. But the court was of opinion that the memorandum .of Taykzwd " was not evidence, being an
act done by the said W'. Tahylard without authority, and that the' said
deed was valid and operative in law to transfer the said land to th6 said
Gadsby."
The 2d bill of exceptions states that, in addition to the above evidenci, the plaintiff offbred in'evidencea deed from Gadshv to Barker,
for 130 acres, part of' Brown's Adventure, dated 10th otf July, 1701.
Also a deed from Gadsby to Aaron Rawlins of the residue of Brown's
Adventure, dated 2d of Oitober 1703. Also adeed of mortgage in.fee
from
Rawlins to Jonathan Scarth, dated the 13th of May, 17A.- tle
als6 offered evidence that Barker and hearth died before 1795, without
heirs. Also an eseheat warrant to the plaiol fr; dated *2th6f Octiber,
1795, and a certificate of resu'rvey, and a patent thereupon to the lain-'
5

