SUPREMB .COURT V. S.
VtOiZETT

pV,,,

the fact of insolvency. Other testimony may be
admitted. It would therefore have been proper to
leave it to the jury to determine whether it was, at
any tiine, in the power of the plaintiff to have made
the.money due on this note, or any part of it, from
the maker by suit; and their verdict ought to have
been regulated by the testimony in this respect.
This-opihion was not-required.
This . coqrt is of opinion that there is no error,
and that thejudment is to be ajirmed with costs.

PIERCE v. TURNER.

ERROR 'to the circuit court of the district of
The net of as.
sembly of Vir- Columbia, sittig at Alkxandria, in an action of debt
gini" e hih brought by Pierce against Rebecca Turner, charging
corded deeds her'as executrix in her own wrong of her late husVoid as to cre. band, Charles Turner, deceased,
difore, ond subecjquent purchusers, means
ereditolrs
of,
and subsequent

pnrehaers
frorn,thiegymtA marringe

of never excrttrix, the jury
Upon the issue
sueectiheur
iound a special verdict, stating in substance the following case

On the14th of Feruary, 1798, the defendant, by

nettlement the the uame of Rebecca Kenner, being a fethe sole,

wife's "nd hud and seised and possessed, in her own right, of cershives to tritlsts, by a dcI, tain land and slaves, conveye.d the same by deed, in
to which the consideration of an intended marriage between herhusband was a self and Charles Turner, to trustees, to be held in
party,althou'gh
Snt recorded, trust for the use of herself' until the marriage
protects the should be solemnized, And from and aifter the so1he eceditors lemnization thereof to the, use of herself and the
of the hus. said Charles Turner, and the longest liver of them,
ancL from"and' after their- deaths, to the use of her
band.
heirs, The deed purports to be an indenture tripar-.
tite, in-which Charles TUrneir is nathed as the sdcond party, and as such he duly executes the deed;

FEBRUARY, 1809.
le does not, however, make any settlement-of his
own property upon his intended wife, but appears
to be made a party merely for the purpose of testifying his .privity and consent.
About four months after the exeqution of the
deed, two of the three subscribing witnesses- poved
the execution, before the county court. of Fairfax,
where all the parties inhabited. That probat-wa.s
duly.certified by the clerk under direction of the
court. But the deed purporting to be a conveyance
of land as wei 'as slaves, and one of the subscribing witnesses, soon after the execution of it,.
,having left the United' States, and never having
returned, the deed was not .fully admitted to
record, but remained in the clerk's office under
the certificate. of probat before stated, until the'1st
of September, f807, when the county court, upon
proof of the absence of .the third subscribing witness, and of his hand-writing, admitted the deed "to
record; all which' is certified by the recording
clerk, and found by the special verdict.
Soon after the execution of the deed, and in the
same month, (February, 1 '98,) the contemplated
marriage took place; whereupon the trustees put
Turner into possession of the land and slaves, and
he continued possessed of the same, with the knowledge and approbation of the trustees, till his death,
which happened some time in the'month of December, -802, less than fivje years from the time of his
"mariage, and of his first coming into possession
of the property.
Turner and his wife resided in Alexandria from
the time of their marriage till the autumn of 1801,
when they removed into the county of Northumberland, in the state of Virginia, taking the slaves
with them by consent of the trustees; they continued -to. reside there, upon the land in the deed
mentioned, on which the.slaves were kept, till his
death, in December, 1802. Upon his death she reniained in popssession both of the land and slaves,
claiming exclusive property in the same, and- to

Prritc
L.

156
ixacs

SUPREME COURT U. S.

b'old possession of the same with tht privity and
approbation of the trustees, Fhose privity and
are expressly found. In the autumn
of 1803, the defendant removed back to Alexandria, in, the district. of Columbia, and brought
with her a part of the slaves, (of value sufficient
to satisfy the pjlaiintiff's debt,) and has ever since
resided in Alexandria, and there used the slaves so
brouight- with her.,

Sapprobation

Three months after Turner's death, and seven
months before the defendant removed from Northumberland backeto Alexandria, the county court
.of Northumberland, finding that no person would
apply for administration of the intestate's, estate,
committed the administration. to the sheriff of the
county, under a particular statute of Virginia.
Tife sheriff returned an inventory of assets apprized at 4.,6,31 dollars and 72 cents, which was distributed in du&proportions among the creditors, under the special direction of the court. But the plaintiff putin no claim, and, not being on the list of creditors reported to the court, received no part of the
sum so distributed. None of the slaves onveyed
by the said deed were meddled with in the course of
time sheriff's administration, nor included in the inventory and appraisement, although they -were all
then in the county, and some of them have continued
in the county ever since Turner's death. It is
found tnat Turner died insdlvent, unless the said
slaves are charged -with his debts.
By the 4th section of the act of assembly of Virginia, entitled " An act for regulating conveyances,"
it ip. enacted, "that all conveyances of lands," "and
hll dedds of settlement upon marriage wherein either
lands, slaves, poney or other personal thing shall
be settled,?) "and all deedsof trust andj mortgages
whatsoever," "shall -be void as to all creditors and
subvequent purchasers. unless they shall be acknowledged, or 'proved and recorded according to the
directions of this act; burthe samne, as between the
parties and their hoirs, shall nevertheless be -valid
'
and- binding ."

FEBRUARY, 18o9.
The deed in question never was proved or acknowledged and recorded -iccording to the directions of the act; and the question was, whether it
was void as to t/he creditors of the husband, so as to
charge the widow as his executiix in her nwn wrong.
The opinion of the court below was, that'the deed
was good and effectual to prevent the property
vesting in the husband by virtue of the marriage,
and consequently was never liable for his debts.
That at the time of the marriage no legal,estate in
the slaves was vested in the wife, and therefore nothing was transferred to the husband by the marriage.
E:.7. Lee, for the plaintiff in error.
By marriage all the personal estate of the wife
becomes the absolute property of the husband.
The operation of this principle can only be prevented by pursuing strictly the mode pointed out by
lfiw. This deed wants those legal solemnities
which !he law requirei to make it valid against creditors. The plaintiff is a credit6r' the deed is,
therefore, not valid against him. The word creditor, in the act of assembly, means not only the
creditors of the grantor, but'the creditors of every
person whose debts could have been legally satisfied out of the property, if such deed had not been
made. If the word.is to have the limited construetion contended for on the other side, and the deed
be void only as to her creditors, and as to subsequent purchasers from her, the statute becomes nugatory ; because after marriage she has 2zo.creditors,
and cannot sell and convey. Her creditors have
become his creditors ;'her debts have become his
debts. If the deed be void as to her creditors, it
must be void as to his creditors. If she can neither sell nor have creditors, the act must apply to
his creditors, or it will be idle and unavailing.
If the husband had sold these slaves to persons
ignorant of the deed, the sale would have been valid.

izxvcs
T.R.v"

SUPREME COUR
PIERCE

TU-R,

U. S.

If he had begn trusted upon the faith of this propertv, which he had.in his possession, and which was
to have come by his wife, such creditors,
who were ignorant of the deed, would have a
right to payment out of this property. If they
could not, the possession of the slaves would have
been a fraud upon stich creditors.

Ssupposed

It is true, in the present case, thd debt was contracted before the marriage, but that carlnot alter
the principle of law. If the deed be void as to
any of his creditort, it is void as to all.
The tepn creditors is general, and literally
6omprehiads c'reditors of the husband, as well as
creditor ' of the wife. Where the words of a statute are plain, the court cannot indulge any latitude
6f construction, but must ptirsue the words. 3
C'all, 106. 2 Call, 183. Eppes v. Pandolbh.
If the property ws liable for the husband's debts,
it was assets, and her appropriating it to her own
use, makes her an executrix in her own wrong;
(Tdller, 17.) although she did it claiming them as
her own, and under a void deed; 2 Vin. Abr. 211.
2 Term Rep. 588. Edwards v. Mkiercer. Cro. Yac. 270.
ifazues v. Loring. 2 Bac. AAbr. 338. 5 Co. 34. a.,
even if there be a rightful administrator. But the
possession taken by'the sheriff of Northumberland
county was not an administration. 2 Term Rep. 97.
If this deed be valid against creditors, no mar-,
riage settlement need be recorded. It renders unnecessary all the precaution which the legislature
so anxiously took to prevent this kihd of fraud and
imposition.
C. Sinms, A B. Key and Yones, contra.
The act for regulating conveyances, as it relates
to creditors and their debtorsi wa4 intended to protect the former against secret deeds and-conveyances made by the latter; it never was iotended to5

FEBRUARY, 1909.

159-

injure the rights of third persons, who do not claim

fnder the debtor.
Lord Mansfield, in the case of Cadogan v. Ken2zett, Cowp. 434. speaking of the statute of 13 .Bliz.

c. -5.which relates to frauds against creditors, says,
that "such a construction is not to be given in support of crqditors as will make third persons sufferers."
If there is any difficulty in the construction of
this act it arises from the generality of the expression " creditors and subsequent purchasers."
The first section of the act declares, that no conveyance shall be good against any creditor or purchaser, for valuable consideration, not hauing nt•tice thereof, unless it be acknowledged or proved
by three witnesses, &c.
What purchaser is intended by this act? Un-questionably a purchaser from the person who made
'the first deed. The effect or operation 6f the act,
is to give validity to the second deed duly proved
and recorded in preference to a prior deed, not duly
proved and recorded; and not to invalidate the first
deed, in favour of a purchaser for a valuable consideration from a person other than the maker of the
first deed..
To illustrate the subject; suppose A. the rightful
owner of property makes a conveyance 6f it to B.
which is not recorded. C. who sets up a claim to
the Property, sells, and conveys it to D. for a
valuablc consideration, and the deed is duly recorded; would the deed frorp A. to B. be considered as void against D. who does ntt claim
-under A.? certainly not. Then the subsequent
purchaser must claim under the person who made
the firsf deed, or the first deed cannot be considered
"
void as to him. So the general term 1 creditors,
used in the act must, for ihe like reasons, be under.stood to mean the creditors of the grantor or bar-

Pxiacz
.

T

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Piz.xca
V.
TutkIR.

gainor in'the first deed, and none but such creditors
can set aside the deed.
IW'A. by deed conveys property to B. and the
deed is not recorded according to the act. C. the
heir of A. contracts debts. The creditors of C.
would have no lien or claim on the property conveyed by A. to B., nor would it be liable in any
manner to C.'s debts; yet, but for the deed, the
land would have descended to C. The right which
creditors have to the property of their debtor is derivative. If -he never had a right to the property,
they can have none. Charles Turner never had any
right to this property, unless ufider the deed.
.Rebeccd'

enner, before the marriage, was the
sole and absolute 'owner of it, and was fully competent to dispose of it as she thouaht proner.
She did dispose of it by a deed to trustees, which
she was competent to make, which was completely
binding upon her, and which devested from her all
legal title and claim to the property. At the time
of the marriage she had no legal estate in her which
could, by" operation of 'law, be transferred to her
husband by the marriage. As he was a party to
the' deed, and thereby assented to it, he was bound
by it, and could never set it aside. Between all the
parties to the deed it was as valid and binding" as if
it had been duly acknowledged and recorded. The
creditors of Charles Turner can claim nothing
which he could not claim. If the marriage did not
transfer the property to him, they. cannot claim it at
law. What never was his cannot be theirs.
If the property never was his, so as.to be assets,
the defendant can never be charged as executrix in
her own wrong for taking possession of it.
MBut even if this property should finally be adjudged to be assets,'yet we contend she is not liable
as executrix de son toqrt. -If she took possession of
the slaves on a fair-claim of -property, believing her-

FEBRUARY, 1809.

161

self lawfully entitled to them, it cannot'amount to

V_
P.rtz.

such a tortious act as will charge her as executrix de TukNEn.
8on tort. Bro. Abr. Adm'n;strator;pl 36. Executor,
p. 162. _Fitz. Abr. . Executor, pl 65. Roll, Abr,
Executor, pl.417. 11 Pin. Ar. Executor, C. a. and
B. a. ph 5. 2 Leon, 226. Com. Dig. Ada.-Mistrator,
C. 2. Freem. 13.pl. 12. Dyer, 166. Stohesv. Por-•
ter.
The deed was good at law between the parties,
and by the assent of her trustees she had a legal
right to the possession; and wherever a person
comes lawfully into the possession of the goods he
can, never be charged as executor de son tort. The
rightful executor could never claim these slaves as
assets, because the deed was good between the parties,
and he would be estopped by the sealing and delivery
of the deed-by Charles Turner, his testator.
If the creditors of the husband have any remedy, it,
must be in equity; where it is a well settled principie that-if the representatives of the husband are
obliged to resort to equity to get possession of the
wife's estate, they shall first make her an adequate
settlement. She is considered as a fair creditor to that
extent. 1 Ponbl. e. 2. § 6. p. 87: note k. 10, Ves.
jun. 360. Rider v. Kidder. 1 P. Wms. 382. Yacobson v. Williams. And so far from setting aside such
a deed as this, a court of equity will enforce a mere
agreement for a settlement even in opposition to
creditors.
If this were a contest between the creditors of
th wife, and the creditors of the husband, the contest must be decided in favour of the former.
" Though the husband by the marriage adopts the
wife and her circumstances together, and is liable to
her then debts, yet he is liable to them only during
the coverture, unless the creditor recover judgnent
against him in the lfe-time of the wvife; nor can a.
court of equity make him liable in respect of the
fortune-which he may have had with her." 1 Fonb.
91. c. 2. § 6. 1 P. Wims. 461. Earl of Thomond v.
Vol. V.

X

162
v'mtc
TuRNP.R.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

Earl of Suolh. 3 P. Wins. 410. Heardv. Stamford. Forrester, 173. Her debts do not by .the
Smarriage become absolutely his debts. Her creditors d6 not lose their right of action against her;
but after his death may pursue their remedy against
her and her separate estate.
The terms debtor and creditor are correlative.
The creditor meant by the statute must mean the
creditor .Dfthat debtor whose deed is to be set aside.
This deed was not void ab initio as to any creditor
of either of the parties. For' eight honths it was valid
as to all creditors; and is still valid as to'all the parties.
Here is no fraud, either legal or moral, as to the
ereditors- of the husband. The consideration of
marriage is a fair, a valuable, and a highly fav6ured
consideration, and has always prevailed, both at law
and in equity, even against creditors.
The plaintiff's counsel, however, set up the marriage itself to defeat the deed made in consideration
of that marriage.
The case of Edwards v. Mflercer, 2 Term Rep. 588.
was a case of fraud. "It was void ab initio; not by
reason of the omission to record it
MARSHATL, Ch. J. mentioned the case of Ander.
son v. Anderson, 2 Call, 204. where it seems to have
been decided that the word creditor, in the act, included creditors of the husband as well as creditors
of the wife.
zones. That was not the case of a conveyance,
but of a contract before marriage without the intervention of a trustee. This contract" did not, and
could not, prevent the legal operation of the mariage which transferred every thing to the husband.
The wife was possessed of the legal estate at the
time of the marriage. But in the present case the

FEBRUARY, 18o9.

163

deed was good, and no legal estate remained in Rebecca Kenner, at ihe time of her marriage.
Swann, in reply.
The words of the act are, that the deed. shall be
void as to " all creditors and subsequentpuchasersO
unless, &c. The plaintiff being a creditor, it is'void.
as to him. By the marriage the property, at to the
plaintiff's claim, vested-in Charles Turner, in the
same manner as if Rebecca Kenner had transferred
it to him by deed duly acknowledged and recorded.
He received possession of them, and from that pOssession acquired credit with the plaintiff and others.
If this property should niot be rendered liable to his
debts, the obbject of'the law will be frustrated.
To restrict the term creditors to the creditors of
the grantoris neither consistent with the- letter nor
the spirit of the law.
If this' construction be correct, the creditors of a
subsequent purchaser are not eri.titled to the benefit
of this act, If the property should pass through the'
hands of six purchasers, .would not the creditors of
the last purchaser be entitled to 'seize it? And
shall the vendor set up a secret deed, and claim it,
because the creditor.is not his creditor? How would
this differ from the case of a creditor of the first
purchase'? , The claim of such a creditor-would be
good against the secret deed of the vendor.
The marriage being a purchase; the creditor
stands upon the ame ground.
The creditors of the vendor and purchaser have a
right to consider the deed as null.
If the vendor retains possession of the property,
and appears to be the owner, the creditor may seize
it notwithstanding a secret unrecorded deed.
So if a purchaser has obtained a deed for it, and

Piscs
TURNZR.

164
PXFV. cE
TURNER

1

SUPREME COURT U. S.

is the apparent owner of it, the creditor of the purchaser mdy seize it notwithstanding a, secret unrecorded deed.
Unless the act of. assembly has this operation, it
has none, and no marriage settlement will be recorded in future.
The derivative title'may be bettertthan the original; as in the case of a purchaser without notice
from a purchaser with notice.
Charles Turner had notice, but if he had sold
to a purchaser who had not notice, this purchaser
must have held the property against this unrecorded
deed. Sugden's Law of Vendors, 448. 2 Fern. 384.
Anib. 313. 2 Atk. 242.
The deed was void ab initio as to creditors, as
soon as the time for recording had elapsed.
March 13.
J. delivered the opinion of the
W.AsiTIGTOI,,
court as follows, viz.
This is an action brought by a creditor of Charles
Turner, against Rebecca Turner, who is charged as
his exdcutrix; and the questions submitted to the
coniideration of the court are, 1st. Whether the
slaves, mentioned in the deed of the 14th of February, 1798, ire to be taken as assets belonging to the
estate of Charles Turner; and if so, then, 2d. Whether Mrs. Turner can, under the circumstances "of
this case, be properly charged as an executrix of her
own wrong? It the first question be determined in
favour of the defendant in error, it will become unnecessary to consider the second; as it does not appear that Mrs. Ttirrier intermeddled in any mauner
with the estate ot her deceased husband, unless these
slayes did, in point of law, constitute ;4 part of that
estate.

FEBRUARY, 1809.

165

The first question depends upon the construction Pianuc
which me court may give, to thle 4th section of the TUREEa.
statute of Virginia, passed on the 13th of December,
1792, enutled " An act for regulating Conveyances,"
which declares that all convyances of land, mar-.
riage settlements of lands, slaves, or other personal
property, deeds of trust and mortgages thereafter
made should be void as to all creditorsandsubsequent
purchasers, unless the same were acknowledged or
proved, and recorded within the time prescribed by
the statute; but that the same as between the par-.
ties and their heirs should nevertheless be valid and
bindine.
The deed .from Rebecca Kenner, the defendant
in error, previous to her intermarriage with Charles
Turner, by which the slaves in question were settled on the said Charles Turner and herself, during
their lives, and the life of the longest liver of them,
with remainder to the heirs of the said Rebecca, not
having been proved and recorded within the time
prescribed by law, it is contended by the plaintiff
in error that the same became void as to the creditors
of Charles Turner, whose rights remained unimpaired by that deed, in the same manner as if it had
never been made; in which case, it is not denied
that an absolute estate would have vested in the husband, on his marriage.
This argumentproceeds upon the ground, that-by
the words " all creditors and subsequent purchasers," is meant as well the creditors of the grantee
and subsequent purchasers from him, as those who
might-derive title under the grantor. Although the
words are certainly broad enough to comprehend the
whole, it is believed by a majority of the court that
the construction should be such as to limit the applcation of them t- the creditors of, and subsequent
parchasers' from, the grantor. In no case but one,
where a title can be set up for the grantee paramount
the deed, can it ever be the interest of a creditor of the
grantee to insist upon such a construction as is contended for in this. for as lie must derive his title

SUPREME COURT U. S.
PzrFuC

V. R.
TuR'Nn

under the deed, if it be void as to him, it is impos-

sible for him to found a claim upon it in right of the'

whose only title is under the deed. it
would be strange that a deed should be binding upon
the grantee and his heirs. and yet void as to persons
claiming under him, for a valuable consideration;
and yet such would be the consequence, if the words
" all creditors and subsequent purchasers" should
be understood to apply to persons claiming under
the grantee as well as those claiming under the grantor. Indeed it would seem repugnant and absurd
to apply the same expressions to persons, who, if
they claim at all, must claim under the deed, and
also to those who claim against the deed; in the
latter case, the invalidity of the deed is consistent
with the claim, in the former it is destructive of it,

Sgrantee,

It may be said, however, that these observations
are inapplicable to this particular case, because the
creditors of the husband do not claim under but
against the deed ;- and, in' this respect, stand upon
tht same ground as the creditors of the grantor. But
if in every other case which can be -stated, the in'validity of the deed is applicable to the creditors of
the grantor, or those claiming unider him, and to none
other, by what rule of construction, can the same
words have a more extended meaning, so 'as to be
applied to persons who claim in right Of a party'tc.
the same deed other than the grantor. If the deed
i. question had granted to Charles Turner an estate
in fee as to' the land, and for life in respect to the
slaves, would it have been void as to simple contract
creditors, 'who could go only against the persqnal
estate, and, good as to specialty creditors, who might
subject the real assdts? and yet, if the deed be void
at all, as to the creditors of thd husband, it must be
so throughout; in which case it inight well be
doubted whether the' land lcould be made liable to
the payment of the husban l's debts; or, to present
the question in a less doub~ful shape, would the deed
be- considered void as to 4 purchaser, from the husband, of the slaves, and good as to a purchaser of the
land ? Let the true interpretation of the words " all
5

FEBRUARY, 18o9.

167

ascer"
creditors and subsequdnt purchasers" be once

PIRQ&
V.

tained, and every difficulty in the case is at an end. TuRa-Tn.
If they are construed to mean the creditors of the
grantor, or subsequent purchasers from him, then,
the deed being good between all the parties to it, no
estate vested ii Charles Turner, but such as the
deed itself passed to him. The title of his creditors
being clearly derivative, if he had no title under
the deed, (and being himself bound by it, he could
have none which was inconsistent with it,) then his
creditors could have none. But if he had a title incompatible with that granted by the deed, then he
was not bound by the deed; contrary tothe statute
which declares that he was bound. If'his creditors
have any such title, it cannot be derived from him,
when, in point-of law, he had none in himself; and,
independent of his title, it is impossible to show any
in them. If a subsequent purchaser, with notice of
a prior unrecorded deed, could not- prevail against
the title of the first purchaser, and most unquestionably he could not, how much stronger is the case
when such subsequent purchaser is even a party to
the first deed, and claims an interest under it? To
say in this case, that, upon the. marriage of Charles
Turner, or at any time afterwards, the law cast upon him an estate in the property conveyed by this
deed, of which he had notice, and to which he was
a party, inconsistent with the estate conveyed to him
by that deed, (and this must be said, if his creditors
can claim such estate in his right,) is, in the opinion
of a majority of the court, repugnant to the plain
meaning and spirit of the law under consideration.
That creditors of the husband, or purchasers from
him, may be injured by the construction which this
court feels itself compelled to give to this law, need
not be denied; but it is not for this tribunal to afford them relief. It might, perhaps, be well if the
law were so amended as to render deeds made in
contemplation of marriage void in express terms,,as
to the creditors of the husband, or purchasers front
him, in case the same should not be recorded within
the time prescrilied by law.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
PXERSc

The court has felt some difficulty in consequence

TRNER. of a decision of the court of, appeals in the case of

1

Anderson v. Anderson; 'but it is believed that the
judgment in that ease was perfectly correct, let the
particular point which occurs in this cause be settled
one way or the other.
In that case, the contract
was not only executory and rendered void, at law,
by the subsequent intermarriage of the parties to
the contract, but it was, at the time- wheni the
slaves were.taken in execution, perfectly contingent
whether the wife could ever claim any interest in
them, in opposition to persons deriving title under
the husband. For if the husband should have survived the wife, or if they should have had issue, the
absolute legal .estate of the husband, gained by the
intermarriage, would have remained unaffected by
the deed. There was, ther~efore, no reason why the
creditors of the husband should be prevented from
receiving satisfaction of their debts out of his legal
estate in the slaves, because it was subject to an
equitable contingent interest in the 'wife, -which
migbt never become effectual. A court of equity
might well say to her, as you have no remedy, at
law, f'r a breach of the contract by the husband, in
consequence of not having interposed trustees to
protect your rights, and have omitted to record the
deed by which creditors and-subsequent purchasers
might be defrauded, we will not now decree you a
specific performance against creditors who have law
and equity on their side.
Decr!e affirmed.
JoH-soN, J. I am unfortunate enough to dissent
from my brethren in this case. I think the creditors of Turner entitled to recover, and enti]led to
recover in this form of action.
I will not contest the general principle, that the
creditors, to whose benefit this act must be understood to operate, are the creditors of thatparty only
But this case pre- °
from whom the estate moves.
sents an exception to the general rule; and the ret-

FEBRUARY. 1809.
soning, from which the general conclusion results, P111155
will be found inapplicable to the case of husband TURvzru
and wife, with regard to the personal estate of the
latter.
The words of the act are admitted to be suffi.
ciently comprehensive to include the creditors oi
both: the general rule is, that the letter must prevail; and it is only when an adherence to the letter
will involve a court in absurdity, or inextricable difficulty, that the spirit is resorted to as a restriction
upon the literal meaning. But the constructiont
which I give to this act removes repugnance aid absurdity, and produces a concordance between the
letter and the spirit, which appears to my mind ouaelusive upon its correctness.
What W¢as the object of the -legislature? It was.
to protect the community from that false credit
which men acquire in society, from the possession
of or supposed interest in property; to place within their reach the means of avoiding those frauds
which may be practised upon them, by the possessor
of property, when an estate or interest in it exists,
in fact, in some other person.
The argument in favour of the defendant isi that
the creditors of .the grantee can derive no benefit
from a deed which the act declares void, and whicha
consequently, could vestno interest-in their debtor.
Thiough him they must claim, and no other estate
but that which existed in him, ought-to be subjected
to their debts.
I will not pass an opinion upon the correctness of
an argument which, in the case where possession
follows the alienation, may make the act productive
of the very fraud which it was intended to obviate.
My opinidn is founded upon a ground which is uiiaffected by the conclusion upon this point, or rather
in perfect coincidence with that conclusion. I deduce my conclusion from the consideration that the
claim of Turner's creditors is not "derived through
Voil V.

Y

170
PISRCn
TvRn.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

the -deecl,bitt is, in fact, in direct hostility with its
operation. The effect of the marriage, in 'tranisfer.
Sring the- property to thb husband, is the foundation
of their claim; and the deed executed on the intermarriage of the defendant with Charles Turner,
constitutes the subject of the defence against their
claim.. The creditors, in order to maintain their
action 'prove', first, the property in the wife before
marriage, then her intermarriage with their debtor.
These facts, in operation of law, upon her personal
property, sustain their right of recovery. Btt, in
opposition to their' claim, the wife endeavours to
avail herself of this deed; and this question -brought
up on an exception taken by the creditors to its
The ground of their objection is,
legal validity.
that it wants that evidence of authenticity, which
the law requires, to make it, as to them, a valid instrument. No doubt is entertained with regard to
the invalidity of this instrument, as to the description of creditors; but it is contended, on behalf of
the defendant, that no other creditors can avail
themselves of that objection, except the creditors
of the wife before marriage. There, appears to me
to be no reason for the' distinction in the case 'of
husband and wife. Her creditors before marriage
become his during coverture; she can contract no
debts to which she can be made personally liable;
her personal property become- his by the act of
intermarriage, and he acquires all the credit, in
society, resulting from the acquisition and possession of that property. It is not upon a deed, which
this act-declares void, that the creditors found their
claim, but upon an act in pais, the operation of which
is an immediate transfer of property, unless that effect be prevented by the legal execution-of some instrument of writing. If such an instrument, executed befbre marriage, be not recorded within eight
months, it loses all legal validity as to creditors, and
it is the same as if no such instrument had ever
been executed. The recording, as to them, is as necessary -as the sealing and; delivery is beiween the
parties.

FEBRUAAY, 1809.
The consistency of this opinion with the argu- PI.RcEment that thecreditors of the grantee can deriveno, TUENER.
interest under a deed which, as to them, is -declared
-void, will appear from distinctly reflecting on the
necessary consequence of such an admission in .this
case. Declare the deed void, and what is the conno longer affects the property of- the
sequence? .It
wife, so as to produce a state of things different
from that which would exist if it had never- been
created; and the operation of the deed was not to
vest an interest or.estate in Charles Turner, but to
prevent any estate from vesting in him by the ordinary effect of marriage. Remove the-preventing,
cause, and the property becomes,. unquestionably,
subject to the husband's debts.
Two objections to this opinion have been urged,
on which it may be proper to make some remarks.
The first that I shall notice is, how the same deedcan be valid as between the parties, so as ieally to
prevent any transfer -of property to the husband,.
and yet, through him, creditors may derive such an.
interest as to subject it to the payment of his debts.
If this argument proves any thing, it proves Itoo
much. A moment's reflection will show,. that it
is as applicable to the case of the grantor as of the
grantee; for, after the execution of the deed, the
grantor has, in fact, and in the acknowledgment of
the act, no more interest in the property than- the'
grantee had before its execution, or upon its. be'coming void for want of recording. "But evety apparent absurdity may be reconciled thus. Legal
Tht ab.claims must be supported by legal pro6f.
stract rights of parties become immaterial, if not
In a"
susceptible of" substantiation by evidence.
question, then, -betweenthe direct representatives of
the husband and wife,. the deed is a valid instrument, and may be received as duly authenticated
written evidence, to support a right derived .under
it. But,.between the one party and the creditor-of
the other, the law declares it wholly. inefficacious,
for want of a ceremony which is made essential to
its authenticity. The most ordinary deed cannot be

172
pmncn
v.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

received in evidence until proved according to the
rules of evidence; and the operation of individual
Sacts,
in producing transfers of property, must ever
be subject to such modifications as may be made by
positive law.
The other difficulty arises from the consideration
how this deed ban be valid against all persons
(which it confessedly is) during eight months; and
then cease to operate as to creditors. To this it may be
answered, that this objection, as well as the preceding,
is equally applicable to the case of the creditor both
of alienor and alienee; and, if valid at all, might defeat the operation of this act altogether. But, as a
provision of positive law, such considerations are
not to defeat it. Possibly some inconvenience may
result from holding property in this suspended situation; but the duration of the inconvenience is not
long, nor the contingency far remote. Nor is an
analogous state of things unknown to the common or
civil lawyer; executory devises, contingent remainders, and shifting uses, produce a pimilar uncertainty
and suspension of right. During the eight months
which are given for recording a deed, the interests
of parties must have vested only sub modo, or subject
to the contingency of recording it within the legal
time: and no doubt a court of equity would interpose its authority, during that period, to adjust the
rights of parties.
Nor will this objection at all
affect the opinion which I entertain respecting the
rights of the plaintiff; for, although the deed certainly did hold the personal property of the wife in
a suspended state, during the eight months, so that
the creditors could not, in that time, have taken it
unde.r execution, yet, after the expiration of that
period, the deed lost its protecting effect, and that
prop rty then became subject to their debts.
These views of the &ubjectappeared to me to
solve every difficulty, and lead to a conclusion upon
the second point made in the argument; viz. whether the defendant may be chnirged as executrix fe

son tort. The case of Iarding & .Afercer romes

FEBRUARY,

1809.

173

fully up to the present, and it will be found of necessity, in order to give effect to this act, that this
remedy should be cbuntenanted. The hardships of
it would, no doubt, be remedied by a court of equity,
in cases free from collusion or moral fraud, so as to
prevent the defendant from being charged to an
amount greater than the value of the goods which
actually came to her hands. But the necessity of
sanctioning this mode of pursuing property, circumstanced as in this case, will appear from the impossibility of a creditor's getting at it in any other manner, at law.
Should the creditor himself administer, he can never recover it, becailse, as the legal
representative of the husband, the deed would be
valid against him without being recorded. Should
any other person administer, he could never be
charged with the value of assets, which for the sane
reason, could never come to his hands. So that both
precedent and principle contur ifi
supporting the
correctness of permitting him to resort to the present remedy.

PiERcr
TRNzE.
-.-

KEMPE'S. LESSEE v. KENNEDY ET AL.

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of

Thehtiferior

f CI. for
New-Jersey, in an action of ejectment brought•. by ...
mort pleas
John Den, lessee of Grace Kempe, a British sub- the county or
in
ject, against R. Kennedy and M. Cowell, citizens _
th.btate of
of. the state of New-Jersey, for land in that state. New-Jersey.
in
May,
17i9,
had st general

Upon the trial of the cause upon the general

ll

issue, a bill of exceptions was taken by the plaintiff, al cases of in-

which presents the iolowing'case:

quisitind
its

judgment,

Grace Coxe, the lessor of the plaintiff, being altho,'L
not
seised in fee of the land in question, before the year ,id,
inas.
as the
1772 intermarried with Joln Tabor Kempe, who ,,,ich
ort had
ju"died in August, 1792. They resided in New-York risawtrun of
before and during the war with Great Britain, and the cause.

-vent to Great Britain when New-York was eva-

