FEBRUARY,

1809.

173

fully up to the present, and it will be found of necessity, in order to give effect to this act, that this
remedy should be cbuntenanted. The hardships of
it would, no doubt, be remedied by a court of equity,
in cases free from collusion or moral fraud, so as to
prevent the defendant from being charged to an
amount greater than the value of the goods which
actually came to her hands. But the necessity of
sanctioning this mode of pursuing property, circumstanced as in this case, will appear from the impossibility of a creditor's getting at it in any other manner, at law.
Should the creditor himself administer, he can never recover it, becailse, as the legal
representative of the husband, the deed would be
valid against him without being recorded. Should
any other person administer, he could never be
charged with the value of assets, which for the sane
reason, could never come to his hands. So that both
precedent and principle contur ifi
supporting the
correctness of permitting him to resort to the present remedy.

PiERcr
TRNzE.
-.-

KEMPE'S. LESSEE v. KENNEDY ET AL.

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of

Thehtiferior

f CI. for
New-Jersey, in an action of ejectment brought•. by ...
mort pleas
John Den, lessee of Grace Kempe, a British sub- the county or
in
ject, against R. Kennedy and M. Cowell, citizens _
th.btate of
of. the state of New-Jersey, for land in that state. New-Jersey.
in
May,
17i9,
had st general

Upon the trial of the cause upon the general

ll

issue, a bill of exceptions was taken by the plaintiff, al cases of in-

which presents the iolowing'case:

quisitind
its

judgment,

Grace Coxe, the lessor of the plaintiff, being altho,'L
not
seised in fee of the land in question, before the year ,id,
inas.
as the
1772 intermarried with Joln Tabor Kempe, who ,,,ich
ort had
ju"died in August, 1792. They resided in New-York risawtrun of
before and during the war with Great Britain, and the cause.

-vent to Great Britain when New-York was eva-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
cuated by, the British army. Grace Kempe, since
the death of her husband, has continued to reside,
V.
xzxyzDy. and now resides, in Great Britain, where he died;
been in possession of the land in right of
his wife, on the first of March, 1776, and turitil the
same was seized by the authority of the state of
New-Jersey.
KXEMn''s
LrsszE

Shaving

The defendants relied upon several acts of the
legislature of New-Jersey; an inquisition taken under the authority of those acts; a judgment of
the inferior court of common pleas for the county
of Hunterdon, in May, 1779, upon that inquisition,
confiscating the estate; a judgment'of the inferior
court of common pleqs for the county of Sussex;
an execution upon that judgment; and a deed from
Joseph Gaston, an agent for the state of New-Jersey, to the defendant Kennedy, whose tenant the
other defendant was; and provgd, that he had
always been in possession under that deed from the
day of its date, to the day of trial.
Upon this case the plaintiff prayed the court to instruct the jury that they ought to find a verdict for
him ; which the court refused, and directed-the jury
that they ought to find a' verdict for the defendants;
to which refusal and direction th6 plaintiff excepted, and broug%" his writ of error.
R. Stockton, for plaintiff in error.
This case turns on the. validity of the forfeiture
and confiscation under the acts of the state of NewJersey.
The great objection is, that Mrs. Kempe was not
an object of those laws.
The whole question depends upon the act of the
11th of December, 1778, entitled " An act for forfeiting to, and vesting in, th6 state of New-Jersey,
the real estates of certain fugitives and offenders,
4nd for dirertig the mode of dtermining and satisfying tha. lawfu, debts and demands which m~y

FEBRUARY, 18o9.

175

be due from, or made-against, such fugitives and Krui's
offenders, and for other purposes therein mention- LzssSz
ed ;" by the 3d section of which it is enacted, "that KzE4ED&.
,o
each and every, person, not an inhabitant of,.*
this state, but of some of the other United States,
and seised or possessed of, interested in, or entitled unto, any estate, real or personal, within this
state, who hath, since the 19th day of April, 1775,
aided or assisted, or doth now, or hereafter may, aid
or assist the enemies of this state, or of the United
States, by joining their armies within this state, or
elsewhere, or who already hath, or hereafter shall
have, voluntarily gone to, taken refuge or continued
with,'or endeavoured to continue with, the enemy
aforesaid, and aid them by counsel, or otherwise,
shall be, and is hereby declared to be, guilty, of
high treason against this state; and on convicti6n
thereof by inquisition found, and final judgment
entered thereon in favour of the state, in manner
herein after declared, such conviction shall amount
to a full and absolute forfeiture of such offender's
estate, both real and personal whatsoever, within
this state, to tud for the use of the same. Provided always, that such conviction shall not in any
instance extend to affect the person pofany such
offender, but shall operate against his or her estate
only."
AMrs. KempLe does not come within any of the
descriptiong of offenders in this section.
The inquisition charges, that Kempe and wife
are offenders against the act of 11th of December,
1778, in. this, "that the said John'Tabor Kempe
and Grace his wife, did go to the enemy, and took6
refhge with them some time in April, 1776, and
still remain with them," "against the form of their
allegiance to this state."
The truth of the fact is, that they did not go to
the enemy, but remained at their own homes, and
the enemy came to them.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
iczmez's
Lss.

Kt

1

n',.-

But take the fact as harged ; she and her husband,
i e. she in company with her husband; and legally.
by the command and control of her husband, in
April, 1776, went to the British and remained with
them.
This is a joint charge for a joint act of the husband and wife; and is in the technical language
always used when the wife is charged with concurring in the act of the husband.
Here then is afeme covert charged under this section for accompanying her baron in April. 1776,
before any government was established, before any
law defining treason, and even before New-Jersey
had formed her constitution, and before any prohibition of the act done by her. She simply remained
with her husband, without affording any aid to the
enemy.
Such a person is not within the purview of this
section, and therefore, though the forfeiture perhaps operated 'on the interest of the husband, it did
not reach the estate of the wife.
We contend,
1. That this section does n6t extend to fenes
covert acting with, and therefore by presumption of
law under control of, their husbands.
And, 2. That if it did extend to any feme
oovert, yet it did not extend to one who only went
and remained; she must have aidedand assisled.
1. No feme covert is within the act, It is confined to those who voluntarily go and remain. It
supposes a jree will, a volition, an election to go
or stay: but a feme covert in. the presence of her
baron, has no will; and on the subject of *residence, she can have no wilt different from his.
She is bound by law to live with him, if_.he requires
it. This would .be the case at all times, even after

FEBRUARY, t809.

177

the passing of these laws; for as 'frdedom of.will KExi's
LEssEE
V.
is of the essence of all crimes, a woman cannot cornmit a crime of this sort, not even this species of KEN D.

treason, by obeying her husband.
But when this fact was done there, was neither
government nor law to offend against., The only
law which existed placed her under the dominion
of her husband. He had the right to command,
and the power to compel her to go and remain with
him, and she had neither right to refuse, nor ppwer

to resist.
But if these laws hd then eKisted, she could
not be charged for any breach of them in company
with her husband.

1 Hawk. 3. § 9.

1 Hale, 47.

Redeivinghr husband, knowinjz hii to be a traitor,
is not treason.
The facts of her coverture, and going and remain*ing with her husband, appear upon the face of the

inquisition itself, and clearly show that she could
not have been an offender against the act, and therefore that her estate was not forfeited.
Nor can the legislature be presumed to have
intended to include persons in her situation; for
that would have been cruel. They did not mean to
legislate against the most important duties of social
and domestic life, to cut asunder the bands of
*matrimonial union, to compel a wife to abandon her
husband or forfeit her estate.
Mrs. Kempe, not having the capacity -oluntarily
to commit the offence, was not an object of the law,
and, consequently, the justice who took the inquisition had not jurisdiction as it regarded her. The
inquisition itself does not Gharge the act to be done
by her voluntarily; and this being essential to the
offence, 6ught t' have been directh charged. No
implication is sufficient. 2 -awk. 354. § 110.
Penal laws are to be construed strictly, especially as
to the description of the offender; and general words
Vol.N..

z

SUPREME COURT 1. S.
Kumr,'s
LEssEz!
-K

ought to be so restrained as not to include inlocent
persons if they. can be otlierwise satisfied.

EEDY.

STlie person who -is the proper object of the act
must be an inhabitant of some state other than NewJersey. Afeme covert cannot properly'be called an
inhabitant of a state. The husband is the inhabitant.
By the constitution of New-Jersey, all inhabitants
are entitled to vote; but it has never been supposed
that afeme covert was a legal voter. Single women
have been allowed to vote, because the law supposes
them 'to have wills of their own.
The word "1her" in the last clause of the section
may be satisfied by restricting its sense to single
women.
If this act be not limited td those acting suijuris,
it may as well comprehend infants at the breast as
femes covert.
of
In the case of Afartin v. The
Rep. 390. it was
Mlass. Commonwealth
.Vassachusetts, I William.n's
decided that afene covert did not forfeit-her lands
by joining the enemy with her husband; and the
reasoning of the judges in that case applies with
equal force to this.
2. If the provisions of this act extenfd to anyfeme
covert, yet they do not extend to one in the situation
of Mrs. Kempe; for by the very words of the act,
she must not only have "voluntarily gone to, taken
refuge, ot coutinued with, or endeavoured to continue with, the enemy," but she must also have
"aided them by counsel or otherwise."
The inquisition does not find that she aided them
in any manner. The specie-s of treason intended to be
described was that of adhering to the enemies of
the country, giving them aid and comfort, as defined
by the statute of Edw. III.
It is clear then that Mrs. Kempe was not an offender

FEBRUARY, 1809.

179

against that law, and consequently her estate not
forfeitable under it.
But an important point still remaains to be decided,
viz. what is to be the consequence of this improper
construction ? are the proceedings merely erroneous,
or are they i~oid' are they good until reversed, or
a nullity ab initio P If merely erroneous and good
until reversed, the judgment of the circuit court
must be affirmed. But if the proceecings are void
ab initio, there*has been no judgment, and, consequently, no forfeiture.
This point must be determined by the known
principles of the common law. "These were ingrafted into the constitution of New-Jersey, and have
never been" impaired. by the legislature, so far as
they apply to the ordinary administration of justice.
The tribunal erected to execute these laws was
an inferior tribunal, proceeding, by force of particular
statutes, out of the course of the common law; it was
a jurisdiction limited by the statute, both as to the
nature
of the offence, and the description of persons
"overwhom
it should have cognisance, Every thing
ought to have been stated in the-proceedings whiLh
was pecessary to give the court jurisdiction, and to
justify the judgment of forfeiture. If the jurisdiction does not appear upon the face of., the proceedings, the presumption of law is, that the court had
iot jurisdiction,, and so the cause coram nonjud'e.
In which case no valid judgment could be rendered.
The proceedifigs were instituted before a justice
of peace upon the information of certain commissioners. The justice issu d his warrant to a constable to summon a jury, who take the inquest and
return it to the justice, who returns it to the inferior
=hom
are to proceed
court of common pleas, all of
according to certain forms prescribed by the statute.
The inferior court of'common pleas has no criminal
jurisdiction but what is given by these very statutes
And if the proceedings in this
relative to treason.

Ksrap's
Lss Er

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Xzmr.Ps
Lpsss
V.
KnNN

case do not show it to be a case within those statutes, the presumption of law is that the case was

,DY, not within the cognisance of the court.
P' t the law itself is founded in manifest injustice.
It
clearly ex post, facto. It makes that act a
crime which was innocent when committed; not
only innocent when committed, but at that time
there was neither constitution ngr government to
sin against.
There is no presumption in favour, of the jurisdiction of a court of limited jurisdiction. 2 Wi/s.
382, 383. 6 Mod. 224. 9 Mod. 95.
This is a case of conviction under a penal statute;
and there is, in point of principle, no difference betweefn this and a conviction before a single magistrate. The cases on this subject fully apply. 4
Burr. 2279. Rex v. Corden. 1 Burr. 148. 153.
Rex v. 7arvis. 6 Term Rep. 583. 4 Burr. 2244.
Cowp. 26. 29. 2 Tils. 382. 2 Inst. 231. 12 Mod.
355. 1 Lc'v. 160.
The 11th section of the act of December 11,
1778, will be relied on as- barring the plaintiff's
claim to the land, and compelling her to resort to the
treasury-for indemnification.
But that section both in words and spirit is applicable only to proceedings and judgments having
legal entity and existence, not to proceedings void
for want of jurisdiction. It speaks of proceedings
by virtue of which any such sale shall be made. The
sale referred to is a sale in pursuance of, and warranted by, the acts.
The words "shall hereafter be reversed or made
void," refer to some measure afterwards to be resorted to, to accomplish the reversal of existing
judgments or proceedings, -for errori, or irregularity.
'The term 1 erroneous" being the approprihte wurd
to describe crrors apparent on the record, and

FEBRUARY, 1809.

181

"void," fo describe irregularities. The case of Kzxr's
V.
Parsons v. Loyd,. 3 Wils. 344. shows that irregular LESSEE
proceedings are called void proceedings. The legis- K-xNEDy..
lature meant -to encourage sales by protecting the
purchaser in all cases where the offender was a proper object of the laws. It" was foreseen that writs
of error or certiorari might be brought to reverse
those judgments; and thit applications might be
made to the 4ourts of common-pleas to vacate the
proceedings for irregularities committed by the justice, or constable; or jury, or the court itself. It
interposea this. section, but it never meant to give
sanction to a"proceeding entirely coram nonjudice.
-Lewis, contra.
The bill of exceptions prays the opinion of. the
court upon the whole case. Upon such a prayer
the facts ought to be as fully stated -as in a special
verdict. It presents no question of law. It does
not appear that Grace Kempe ever was seisea in
fee. But if she was, -the estate was devested out
of her, and vested in the state of New-Jersey.
The proceedings were all perfectly regular, and
,correspondent with the law.
But even if they were not, the 11th section of
the lawv prevents such error from affecting the title
of a bonafide purchaser. It declares "That if aiy
process or proceedings, by virtue of which any such
sale may be made as aforesaid, shall -hereafter be
reversed, or made void, for error, or any other cause
whatsoever, such reversal shall not affect, or injure,
or be in force, or in aiiy wise operate against any
bonafide purchaser under this act, but against the
state only; and in every such case -the plaintiff in
error, or person injured by the sale of any estate,
sliall apply to the legislature to be indemnified out
of the public treasury, to the amount of the purchasemoney received for such estate."
The title under the sale is good even if the per-

SUPREME COURT U. S.

182
KMpla's
LzsSz

son whose lands were so condemned and sold were

,.

cent third person, whose lands may have been cow-

KEN-E
'

dead at the time of the judgment.

Even an inno-

demned and sold, can never disturb the title of the
purchaser; his only remedy is against the state by
petition to the legislature.
If the judgment be erroneous, still it is valid
until it is reversed; and if reversed, the only remedy is against the state.
It is objected, that the law is ex post facto, and
contrary to natural justice. Admit it to be so, yet
there was nothirg to prevent New-Jersey from passing such a law. She was sovereign and independent, and had the power to makd what laws she
pleased. There was nothing in her constitution to
prevent it.
A wife may commit ,treason in company with
he husband. The only exception in cases ofireason
is, that the wife is not guilty of treason in receiving
her husband knowing him to be a traitor.
It is objected that a wife living With her husband
cannot be an inhabitant; but there is nothing inconsistent in the idea. The husband and wife. are
both inhabitants; and it- is evident that the legislature meant to include them, because they speak
of " his or her estate." And the word "her"
comprehendsfimes covert as ;well asfemes sole.
Theinquisition does not state it to be a joint
offence. If she would avail herself of the objections, sh6 ought-to have appeared and traversed the
inquisition.
Martin's case, in Massachusetts, was a mere
question of escheat. It was a civil case, and it
was clear that n6 woman was comprehended within the terms of the law. The question altogether
depended upon the words and infentiod of the stutute of Massachusetts, and not at all upob the
5

FEBRUARY, 18G9.

183

question whether a woman could tommit treason
in company with her husband.
The court of common pleas of New-Jersey is
not limited as to subject matter in common pleas.
It is a court of record, and a writ of error lies to
its judgment. The cases respecting limited jurisdictions, do not apply. It is true, that it has not a
general criminal jurisdiction ; but in these cases of
confiscatioh it had an unlimited and exclusive jurisThe legislature of New-Jersey had a
diction.
right to alter the law which required that the jurisdiction should appear upon the .face of the inquisition.
If the inquibition be upon a matter within'their
jurisdiction, it isjunimportant whether the defence
be defectively set forth.
The defect in setting forth the offence does not
affect the jurisdiction of the court.
If the word "voluntarily" ought to have been
inserted in the inquisition, it is only error of judg4.
ment in the court, bat it does not deprive the court
of its jurisdiction.
Stociton, in reply.
There is no well founded objection to the bill
of exceptions; the form of which is warranted, as
well by the books as by the practice of New-Jersey.
It contains the evidence on b6th sides, and the
point of the charge of the court to the jury, which
in such a case, is all that is necessary to bring the
whole case fairly before this court.
The neglect of Mrs. Kempe
quisition cannot injure her, if
jurisdiction. A person not an
was under no obligation to take
ceeding.

to traverse 'the inthe court had no
object of that law
notice of the pro-

Kmvs
Lv-ssEv.

KENNEDY."

184

SUPREME IdOURT U. 9.

-The estates of third persons, whose lands by
mistake were sold, were not forfeited, nor -their
K ENNEDY. rights -affected. All the sections of the act, which
. create forfeitures, relate, only to the estate of the
*- =
offender.
Ks-i.p

s

L.SS.

The 11th section of the act.applies.only.to cases
in which the court having jurisdiction, has proceeded wrongfully, whereby their proceedings might
bd reversed-for error, or declared void for irregularity; not to cases where the court, under colour of
the law, proceeded against persons not within it.
February 20.
MARSHALL, Ch" J. delivered the opinion of the
court as follows :
In this case two points are made by the plaintiff
in error.
1. That the judgment rendered by the court of
common pleas, which is supposed to bar the plaintiff's title, is clearly erroneous.'
2. That it is an- absolute nullity, and is to be entirely disregarded in this suit.
However clear the opinion of the court may be,
orv the first point, in favour of the plaintiff, it will
avail her nothing unless she succeed upon the second. Without repeating, therefore, those arguments which have been, so well urged at the bar, to
show that the inquisition in this case did-not warrant the judgment which was rendered on it, the
court -will proceed to inquire' whether that judgment, while unreversed, does not bar the plaintiffs
title.
The
courts,
ployed
:IOwn.

law respecting the proceedings of inferior
according to the sense of. that term as emin the English books, has been correctly laid
The only question i, was the court, in

FEBRUARY,

1809.

185

which this judgment was rendered, "an infeior
court," in that sense of the term.?ssz

All courts from which an appeal lies are inferior
courts in relation to the appellate court before-which
theirjudgment may be carried; but they arenotthere*fore inferior courts in the technical sense of those
words. They apply to courts of a special and limited
jurisdiction, which are erected on such principles
that their judgments, taken alone, are entirely disregarded, and the proceedings must show their jurisdiction. The courts of the United States are all of
limited jurisdiction, and their proceedings are er%roneous,if the jurisdiction be not shown upon them.
Judgments rendered in such cases may certainly be
reversed, but this court is not prepared to say that
they are absolute nullifies, which may be totally
disregarded.
In considering this questibn, therefore, 'the constitution and powers of the court, in which this
judgment was rendered, must be inspected.
It is understood to be a court ot.record possessing, in civil cases, a general jurisdiction to any
amount, with the exception, of suits for real pioperty.
aIn treason, its jurisdiction is over all who can
commit the offence.
The act of the 4th of October, 1776, defines the
crime, and that of the 20th of September, 1777, prescribes the punishment. The act of the 18th of
April, 1778, describes the mode of trial, and the
tribunal by which final judgment shall be rendered.
That tribunal is the inferior court of common pleas
in each county. Every.case of treason, which could
arise under the former statutes, is to be finally decided in this court. With respect to treason, then,
it is a court of,generaljurisdiction, so far as respects
ther property of the accused.
Vol. V.

A a

Kvx es
Km 'EDy.

SUPREME COURT V. S.

[U=P-'s
R.1.Dy.,

The act of the 11th December, 1778, extends the
crime of .treason to acts not previously comprehended Within the law, but makes -no alteration in the
'tribunal before Which this offence is. to be tried, and
by which -final jddgment is to be rendered.
This act cannot, it is conceived, be fairly construed to convert the court of common pleas bito a
court of limited jurisdiction, in cases of treason.
It remains ihe only court capable of trying the offences described by tile laws which have been mentioned, and it has jurisdiction over all offences committed under them.
In the particular case of Grace Kempe, the inquest
is found in the form prescribed by law, and by persoris authorized to find it. The court was constituted according to law; andi, if an offence, punishable
by the law, had been in fact committed, the accuse I
was amenable to its jurisdiction, so far as respected
her property in the state' of New- Jersey. The
question whether this offence was or. was not committed, that is, whether the inquest which is sub.:
stituted for a verdict.on an indictment, did or did.
not show that the offence had been committed, was
a question which the court was competent to decide.
.The judgment it, gave was erroneous, but it is a
judgment,-and, until reversed, cannot be ,disregarded.
.This case -differs from the case ,from third Institute in this. " In that case the court was composed
of special commissioners suthorized to proceed, not
in all crases bf treason," but in those cases only in
which an indictment had been taken before fifteen
commissioners. Their error was not in rendering
judgment against a person who was not proved by
the indictment to have comnitted the crime, but
who, if guiltyi they had no power to try. The
proceedings there were clearly coram non judce. "
It is unnecessary to notice the eleventh section of

FEBRUARY, 1809.

187

the act, since, without resorting to it, this court is
of bpiiion that there is no error in the.judgment of
the circuit courit. It is afrmed, witkh casts.

Kmpz'ls

V.
KENX3DY.

THE MARINE INSURANCE COMPANY OF
ALEXANDRIA v. JAMES YOUNG.

court
Thebound
of is not
court of .the district
ERROR to the. circuitto
.
. ..
Columbia, sitting at Alexandria, in an ction of ano
covenant, brought by the defendant in error upon a nion to the a-

a. to the
policy of insurance under'the corporate seal of the ry
meanng, or
construction,
error.
in
plaintiffs
of a written
deposition tea&
The point in issue, in the"court below, was, whe- in evidence in
ther the insured, on the 11th of December, 1800, theIt cause.
is no
when he wrote his order for insurance, had notice ground of rez
that the
court below
of a storm which happened at Jamaica, on the 2d vers
re.
fused a new
of November, 1800.

trial beenwhich
h~td
mo.

Part of the evidence offered to the jury was hed for o- the
the deposition of David Young, a witness examined ground that
"verdict
the contra
ry
on behalf of the plaintiffs in error. Upon his was
cross-examination by the defendant in error, at to the tn.
the time of the taking of the deposition; he was dence.
asked this question, viz. " On what day in December did you inform the plaintiff that there had
been a gale of wind in Jamaica ?" To which it was
stated in the deposition that he answered, "1that
on the 13th of December, 1800, he had informed
the plaintiff (below) that there had been a strong
northern in Jamaica; the i cumstance which induced him to mention this, was in consequence of
a very heavy gale having happened the day before,
and the brig Mary, being then in Hampton Roads,
which produced this remark, that he had a b6ring
voyage out, being compelled to throw over his
guns, and that the aforesaid northern had happened when he was in St. Anne's."
After the jury had retired tp consider of. their

