FEBRUARY,

18o9.

191

was not bound to give a construction of the an- MA.t.iCo.

swer of Captain David Young to the second interthe
rogatory df the plaintiff below, is requested by
jury; and that it would be improper in this court
to determine whether the inferior court ought or
ought not to have granted the motion of the defend,
ants below for a new trial, upon the ground that
the verdict was contrary to evidence.

v

YoIyo;

The judgment below is to be affirmed with costs,

BODLEY AND OTHERS v. TAYLOR.

ERROR to the district court 6f the United In Kentuak\,
it is a good.
States, for the district of Kentucky, in a suit in chan- Sground
fequi.
cery

Thomas Bodley, James Hughes, Robert Poague

table. jurisdiction, that his
the
defendanit

obtained a pr-

arid Robert Campbell, citizens of Kentucky, brought or patent for
their bill in chancery
against
ohn Tayor,
Talo, a citizen
to which
thei bil in
hancry
aains Joh
ciize lad
te complainof Virginia, in the .tate court for the district of ant had the
right
Washington, from whence it was afterwards, by better
Yudrtestaconsent, removed into the federal court for the dis- tote respecting
and
'lands;
trict of Kentucky.
in exercising
that jurisdie-

court
The bill states that on the 17th of October, 178, 7ticn
will te
decide
in
conformitthe
followTibbs
made
and
John
Crutcher
Henry
the setwith principles
ing entry with, the county surveyor, "viz. " Henry tied
Crutcher and John i ibbs enters ten thousand acres e a court of
chancery.
of land on i treasury warrant No. 18,747. as tenants jEntries
or land

at a large black ash and in Kentucky;
in common; beginning
small buckeye marked thus (I T.) on the side of a musthave
reasohnabe that
trrat
buffalo-road leading from the lower blue licks a
north-cast course, and about seven miles north-east
by east from the said blue licks, a corner of an 'entry of twenty thousand acres made in the name
of John Tibbs, John Clarke, John Sharpe, David
Blanchard and Alexander M'Clain, running thence
with the said Tibbs & Co.'s line due east sixteen

reasonable h
would enable
a subsequent
the exercise
ofaduedegree
of judgment

and diligencet

to
locate
own lands

his
on

SUPREME COURT U. S.
hundred poles, thence south one thousand' poles9
thence west sixteen hundred poles, thence north one
TAYLOR.
thousand poles to the beginning for quantity." Thht
,..
1he adjacent the same having been surveyed, Crutcher assigned
residuum.
rif theetry be his half to Robert Rutherford, to whom and Wilplaced on a Ioughby Tibbs, (the heir, of John Tibbs,) a patent
road at a .-er was afterwards granted. Tibbs sold his right to
tain distance
Ru-from a given Peyton, who sold a moiety thereof to Magill.
d pas- therford, Peyton and Magill, sold and conveyed
o itby-hich
theO
road
ses, -the dis. the whole for a valuable, consideration to the plantup
is to ly
be tiffs,
l, by deed dated February 15, 1799.
computed
3o3DLEY

the meanders
of the road

That the defendant Taylor having, on the 29d of
with the
If the entry le county surveyor, viz. " John Taylor enters three
of a settlement thousand- acres of land upon a treasury warrant adand pre-emp-...
tion to a tract joining John Walden, on the north side of Johnson's
of land ly!lg fork of licking, on the cast and south-'ast sides,
st side
on the eaS
of a road, the running up and down said creek, and north for
400 pores al 'quantity, to include an improvement made by Jacob
lowed- for the
Drennorf and Simon Butler," has caused the same
settlement
right must be to be surveyed expressly contrary to location, and so
surveyed ' entirely on the as to interfere with your orator' .claim aforesaid;
cast side of the and having obtaineda patent older than that obtained
the said Rutherford and Tibbs, notwithstanding
roadoand in
owtsadn
T~
the fotm of a Y
' he knows his claim is surveyed contrary to location,
qe
to
convey to the
he
refuses
requested,
although
call
for
and
The
not byea May, .1780, made the following entry

the vettlement

right is wefi. plaintiffs.

The prayer of the bill was, that the de-

ciently
call tor%fendant should c6nvey to the plaintiffs so much of
the certain,
Vut

thepr.emltio, the land included in the defendant's patent as interiight is too fered with the plaintiffs' patent; and for general revkague andmust.
be :ejerted. " lief.
A defeidantin
The defendant by his answer denied the jurisdicditynh
p
has
e
tent for land tion of the court, as a court of equity, because the.
stated in their bill no equitable ground of
in piff
not ineludeds
.s
his entry, but.
*coveredby the' relief. He avers his ignorance of the plaintiffs' ti"
-until
,
• know
within a few days
,
not
did
he
that
eomplainafits'
will, be tie,-"and " .entry,
iecreed locon- then past, the mode- in which his own location or

vey it to the survey was made. Thaf he had employed one Ameomplaiunuts, brose Walden to cause them to be located. He
Tut" the complainants will

not ho

denies all fraud in making his survey.

He avers

r9- that he was a bond ide purchaser for a full and

quired t9 convey to the de-

FEBRUARY,

1809.

193

valuable consideration, prior to the title claimed by BODLEY
the plaintiffs. That no caveat' was entered against TAYL'O.
his survey. That he regularly obtained his patent.
That a considerable part of his land has been cleared fendant the
whihl
and settled. That 20 years have elapsed since the land
obhave
the
objects
geographical
entry. That the land-marks and
whicibyhwas
the
covered
which were at that time visible, have been changed, for,
defendanis Coaltered or destroyed by time.
try, h'It whilh,

He contends that if he has surveyed and obtained by mistake

he

omitted to sur.

a grant for lands not described in his entry, and
which he had no right to survey, he ought not to be
compelled to convey them to the plaintiffs, unless
they will convey to him what he had a right to survey, and which they have surveyed, and for which
they have obtained a patent.. That the plaintiffs' entries cover almost all the lands which the defendant
could have surve'yed under his entry. That by the
plaintiffs' delay the defendant has lost the power to
locate his warrants elsewhere, if they are improperly
located, which he denies.
He states that his entry was dependent on John
Walden's, which depended upon Ambrose Walden's,
which depended upon Jacob Johnson's. That Jacob
Johnson's was first surveyed by the surveyor who
surveyed the entries of the Waldens, and of the defendant. That although Jacob Johnson's survey
was afterwards suppressed, yet that-did not alter the
actual location of the two Waldens and of the defendant. That h~s survey is correctly made ac~ording to the laws of Virginia when it was made, and
while Kentucky was part of Virginia, and that by
the same laws, and the compact- between Virginia
and Kentucky, at the time of separation, his prior
patent, founded upon a prior equity, and obtained
without fraud, cannot be vacated.

A survey and connected plat was made under an
order of the court, and according to the directions of
each party.
A jury came, according to the custom of Ken.
Vol.

V.

11b

vCy.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
30 DLFY
TAYL o.

tucky in chancery suits, and being sworn to inquire
of such facts as should. be submitted to them, found
the following facts, viz. That the place designated
on the connected plat. by the letter A. is the place
called for.as the beginning corner of John Tibbs &
Co2s entry of 20,000 acres, dated July 31, 1783,
on the buffalo-road leading from the lower blue
licks to Limestone, which corner is also the beginning of an entry of 10,000 acres made the 17th of
October, 1783, in the names of Henry Crutcher and
John Tibbs, under which the complainants claim;
copies of which entries are annexed to their verdict.
The following. facts were agreed by the parties,
viz.
2. That the entry of 20,000 acres in the name of
John Tibbs and others, and a survey made thereon,
for 16,000 acres on the 8th of June, 1796, were assigned to the complainant Bodley, who obtained a
patent therefor in his own name dated 21st of April,
1798, and afterwards conveyed one undivided
moiety thereof to the complainant Hughes, by deed
duly recorded.
3._That the entry of 10,000 acres was made on
the 17th of October, 1783, in the name of Henry.
Ctutcher and John Tibbs, surveyed i4th Mlarch,
1784, registt red 31st December, 1784, and patented
in the names of Robert Rutherford, assigne of
Henry Crutcher, and Willoughby Tibbs, heir at law
of John Tibbs, deceased, 26th August, 1790, was
purchased by Bodley 26th September, 1798, and
conveyed to all the complainants jointly by deed
duly recorded, dated the 15th of February, 1799.
'1 h,,t the defendant's sur'vey of 3,000 acres was-made
on the ist of September, 1785, registered the 1st
of November, 1785, and a patent obtained therefor

dated 21st of November, 1786.
4. That' the grants issued by the register of the
Vlrginus land-office do not bear regular dates agree-*
ably to the times the surveys were returned, but in

FEBRUAIIY,- 1809.

195

manv instances, the elder patent has issued on surveys returned several months alter surveys on interfering claims were registered.
5. That the surveys of Jacob Johnson's settlement
•and pre-emption, as stated to hav-r been surveyed in
"the defendant's first fact, (hereafter stated,) were
made by the direction of Simon Kentojn, his agent,
-who was also locator of the claims w'hich. call to
adjoin the said Johnson's surveys, and were never
admitted to record.
6. That Ambrose Walden's survey Vas made on
the 29th of Novembe-r, 178k, John Walden's the
27th of December, 1785, and Jacob Johnson's settlement and pre-emption, as represented on the connected plat by lines thus, (000,) was made-on- the
9th of April, 1789, registered and patents issued
thereon to John Reed and Arthur Fox, assignee of
Johnson, dated the 20th of February, 11-931
7. That more than one entry and survey has been
made on almost all the good land in the state of
Kentucky.
8. That the several claims, water-courses, im.
provements, objects and distances laid down on the
connected plat, reported by the surveyor, are -truly
laid down and reported.
F actm for the defendant.
1. That the settlement and pre-emption of Peter
Joflnson, heir at lawk of Jacob Johnson, after being
entered with the survey.jr, were actually run out and
surveyed as designattd on the connected plat by the.
letters and figures M. N. 2 & 3. that the said sur
veys were'made by a surveyor legally qualified to
make the same, prior to the dates of the-atixvey6
made for Ambrose Walden, John Walden, and the.
defendant.
2. That the land surveyed for' the said. Peter

BbP.TEy
V.
TAYLR.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
lIOULPY
V

TAYLOR.

Johnson, upon the said right of pre-emption, there
are now 300 acres of cleared, land, upon the said
survey of Ambrose Walden 200 acres, upon John
Walden's 400,. and upon the defendant's 300 acres of
cleared land.
3. That on the 22d of May, 1780, the land on
which the entries of Johnson, Ambrose Walden,
John Walden and the defendant, were made, was uncultiyated, and the country for fifty or sixty miles on
all'sides without an inhabitant, except Indians, by
whom it was much infested, and only occasionally
visited by hunters and land-jobbers.
4. That on the 22d of May, 1780, and prior
thereto, there were many cabins, marked trees, huriting camps and improvements then plain and notorious on Johnson's fork, and the other branches of
licking, of.which there remain now no traces, and
which are now wholly incapable of proof as to what
was their exact position.
5. That since that time a great change has taken
place in the appearance of the country generally round,
and at the place where the defendant's entry lies.
That the country is now thickly settled, and in high
cultivation. That great changes have taken place
in the names of streams, roads and other objects, and
that few of those who frequented that part of this
country in the year 1780, are now alive.
6. That the complainants, Bodley and Hughes,
assignees of Tibbs & Co. are the proprietors
ot the 16,000 adjoining th" 10,000 acres in the bill
mentioned.
7. That the cabin represented on the connected
plat as Jacob Drennon's is the improvement called
for in his certificate for a pre-emption, which was
cluimed for him before the -ommissioners by Simon
Kenton, who also located the complainants' claim of
3,000 acres.

FEBRUARY, 1809.
•V the .plat, on the
8. That the place designated on

south side of Johnson's fork as a cabin, represents

a abin built prior'to the first of May, 1780, by Simon Kenton, otherwise called Simon Butler and
Jacob Drennon.
It was also agreed between the parties that on.
and before the 21st of February, "1780, the.lower
blue licks were generally and notoriou'sly known by
the appellations" the blue licks," and" the lower blue.
licks," and that the road on which the comolainantit
claim their beginning was then generally and notoriously known by the name of the upoer road.
That the three .buffalo-roads laid down' upon the
connected plat, in. February, 1780, "aiid before, led
from the lower blue licks as represented.
That upon any reasonable plan of surveying the
defendant's entry of 3,000 acres, it would he covered
by the younger entries of 10,000, and 16,000 acres,
the property, of the plaintiffs, and would include
land of equal or better quality than that which it
now covers.
That the land in dispute is of more value than
2,000 dollars.
The following are the entries made by the parties
respectively, viz.
"January 7th, 1780.
"Peter Johnson, heir at law of Jacob Johnson, deceased, this day claimed ,a settlement and .preemption to a tract of land in the district of Kentucky, lying on the east side of the buffalo-road
leading from the blue licks to Limestone, -nine.
miles, from the lick on the upper road, by the
said decedent's raising a crop -of corn in the year
one. thousand, seven hundred and seventy- six;
satisfactory proof being made to the court,,the are
of opinion that the said Peter Johnson, &c. has a

BoDLi
TAY pi.

198
1

30a-,r

TA

Lo.

SUPRE.WE COURT U. S.

right to a settlement of four hundred acres of land,*

to include the above locations; and the pre-emption

~ of one thousand acres adjoining; and that a certificate issue accordingly."
" February 21st, 1780.

" Peter Johnson. heir, &c. enters 400 acrea in
Kentucky, by virtue of a certificate, &c. lying on
the east side of the buffalo-road leading from the
blue lick to Limestone, nine miles from the lick on
the upper road."

"May 22d, 1780.
"Ambrose Walden enters 1,333 acres upon a
treasury warrant on the east side of Jqcob Johnson's settlement and pre-emption on the waters of
Johnsop's fork a branch of licking, to include two
cabins 'on the north side of said fork, built by Simon Butler, and to run eastwardly for quantity."
"May 22d, 1780.
"1JohnWalden enters 1,666 2-3 acres upon a treasury warrant, joining the above entry on the south
and south-east, to include three cabins built b Simon Kentoni running east and south-east for quintity."
" May 22d, 1780.
" John Taylor enters 3,000 acres. upon a treasury
warrant joining John Walden on the north side of
Johnson's fork of licking, on the east and southeast side runn;ng up and down the said creek and
north for quantity, to include an improvement made
by Jacob Drennon and Simon Butler."
The court below then proceeded to pass the following interlocutory decree:
" It is decreed and ordered that Duvall Payne, of

FEBRUARY, 1809.

199

Mason County, do go on the land in controversy and
survey the. claim of the complainants, agreeable to
their entries. Then survy the settlement entry of
Peter Johnson, heir of Jacob. 'to begin at a point
nine miles below the lower blue licks on the buffaloroad as it meanders leading to the mouth of Limestone, thence east so fir that a line- north two hundred and fifty-three poles will give 400 acres on the
east side of the xoad. That he then run out the
pre-emption: of Johnson in a square to the cardinal
points, to lay around the settlement, and give an
equal proportion of land on the south and east which
is to direct-the lines on the north and west.
" That he survey Ambrose Walden's entry on
the east of Jbhnson's pre-emption, then John Walden's in equal proportions on the south and east
of Ambrose, and the defendant's on the south and
east of John Walden, in equal proportion.
"That he then ascertain the interference between
the claims of the complainants and defendant, which
lie without the limits of the defendant's entry as it
is now directed to be surveyed; and within the
lines of'the complainanis' entry, mark the lines and
make corners to this interference when ascertained,
and make report to the next court."
After this interlocutory decree, and before the
surveyor made his report, the following facts were
agreed and admitted by the parties:
1. "That there is at the blue licks a salt spring on
'the south side of licking, which is south 36-deg.
west 8"2 poles from another salt spring on the north
side of licking."
2. That there are at the blue licks about 500 acres
of land trodden and licked away by the resort of
,buffaloes and other wild beasts.
3. That the .connected plat in this cause, and the
survey-executed in pursuance of the interlocutory

BODLEV
V.

TAYIo.

9,00

SUPREME COURT U. S.

are made out by superficial, that is surface
mensuratioh, and the distance from the:blue licks to
the respective beginnings of the parties' entries, ascertained in the same way.

0 D LE-rdecree,

TA.YLoR.

z

Afterwards the surveyor made his report, with a
plat stating that he had made the survey according
to the decree, and found " that part of the defendant's surv'ey which is included within his survey
when laid down agreeable to the decree, and is also.
,within the complainants' survey, to be 1,07t acres,"
" and that part of the defendant's survey which is
included in the complainants' entry when lid down
agreeable to deciee, and will not be in the defendant's
survey when made agr'eeable to the decree, is in two
tracts, one containing 2,034 acres and 24 poles,"
"the other containing 1821-2 acres."
Whereupon the court decreed and ordered that
the defendant should, before the 1st of December
then next, convey to the complainants by. deed, with
warranty against himself and those claiming under
him, the two tracts not within his survey as laid
down by the order of the court, and which were
within the complainants' survey, amounting to 2,216
1-2 acres; and should pay-the costs of suit.
Each party brought his writ of error.
The cause was argued at February term, 1806,
by the defendant Taylor, and P. B. Key, for the original defendant, and by the complainant Hughes, for
the original complainants; and again at February
-term, 1807, by H. Clay and P. B. Key, for the original defendant, and by Hughes and H. _farshall,
for the original complainants; and again at this term
by Pope, for the original complainants, and P. B.
Key, for the defendant.
Argument for Taylor, the orizinal lefendant.
The bill discloses no facts which give an equitable
jurisdiction to the court. It simply charges that

FEBRUARY, 18o.
'the defendant (Taylor) has surveyed contrary to DonLY
his entry. It charges no fraud,. it alleges nothing to TAYLO.
show that a caveat would not have given a full,
plain, and adequate remedy; and it shows no sufficient reason why the remedy by caveat was not pursued.
Virginia borrowed the term patent, or grant,
from the English law, where it means a mode of
conveyance by the sovereign power. The land law
of Virginia considers it as the consummation of
tide, and directs the register to endorse thereon
0' that.thegrantorhath title."
By the compact between Virginia and the inhabitants of Kentucky, in 1789, when _Kentudky was
erected into an independent state, it is declared (in
§ 7.) "that all private rights and interes of lands
derived from the laws of Virginia, prior to such
separation, shall remain valid, and shall be deter3ined by the laws now existing in this state." If
therefore the court had equitable jurisdiction in this
6ase, it must have been bestowed by the English or
Virginian precedents, and not by the practice -in
Kentucky since that cbmpact. Kentucky could
not, by law, affect those right and interests, and, t
fortiori,they could not be affected by thepractice of

her courts.
English precedents are therefore admitted to apply; and it is also admitted "that where a caveat
was efitered, or directed to be entered, and a hearing
prevented by fraud or accident," the chancery. in
Virginia exercises jurisdiction;. ,butit is denied'that
either in England- or Virginia, it has ever taken ju.fisdiction over the simple legality of the title; that
it has ever constituted itself into a court of errors t6
examine whether. surveys correspond with entries.;
or attempted to perpetuate questions in chancery
intended by law-to be lqid .at rest by the rapid
remedy of a caveat. The cases of White and 7one&,
1 Wash. 116. and Burnsidesand Reid, 2 Wash. 48.
Goc
Vol. V.

M
DODL-1
T

.

SUPREMEoCOURT U. S.

illcongrm this doctrine, that fraud destroys, but
tjie. absence df it saves, a patent.
In. the allegata, a survey. "contrary to location
is made the only basis of jurisdiction. In the probata, the only'auxiliary ground %hich appears, i a
"certificate of a practice" by a register-,of Virginia,'
given by a register in Kentucky, "that a registry is
kept of the returns of -surveys, bue; that patents do
not issate according to their priority."
-

neither such a registry nor such an order ix- issuing patents are required bylaw. An act Qf the'reSister, not required by, law, cannot -affect the title,
2nd cannot le a groucnd of 'jurisdiction.
The jurisdiction r~sts therefore on the single allegation "that the defendant's survey -was made contrary to his loeation.".
The question"then is, {vho has the legal title?
As sub rdinaie to this question it is contended,
A; . That the "def.eidint's entry, is legal.
This is admitted both by the bill and the answer;
4. By charging the~survey to have been made contrary to location; and, "2 By ordering a survey to
be made agreeable thereto in the court's. opinion.
But the legality of the defendant's entry is proved,
for the purpose of contrasting it with the illegality
of that of,,the complainants.
* The. speciaity of entries 'or locations, required by
the land lakv,.consisted of ,geographicalobjects, and
not of geometrical- prdtraction. The geography
ought to be -natural, an6,not artificial; because it
wts to convey infdrmation to those about to locate,
Upon reading the previous lc(e#tions.at the surveyor's "office. lt "was a previous knowledge of the
face of the country to which these locations were to
c9nvey a notice. No previous knowledge of chopping

PEBRUARY 1809.

.203

a ree at the time df location could etist. Therefore,
a nail driven into a tiee, or letters marked on it, could
be no notice to locators' reading an account of. it at the
.office, however well informed of the geography'of
the country. The law did not intend td force them
to delay locations, at the risk- of"losing, the land, to
go in search of such artificial 'geography.A settlement is the only species of artificial geography recpgnised'hy- khe lair. This being a previous mark in the face of the country, -was a notice
addressed to a previous.knowledge of it. Skill rights
founded upon this artificial geography were to be
established, by the law, within a very short pcdriod,
to obstiruct the inconveniences which might risult
from making even this very visible, artificial gegraphy the basis of notice.
Johnson's settlement -was recognised and established within the limited-period. This settlement,
although it was artificial geography, yet it was a
more notorious and visible object than the two letiers cut on a tree.; It was a geographicil object recognised by law; but the letters were not. John.
.son's entry calls for several 'geographical objects,
"the upper road," " leading to Limestone," "'on its
east side."
The entries of the Waldens, and of the defendant, by linking themselves to Johnson's, obtained all
its specification. If Johnson's was good, the others
needed no further precision.
Yet Ambrose Walden's specifies " _7ohno's
forh," and" two cabins." J. Walden's calls for three
cabins.
That of the defendant specifies "Vohnsoiq'sforj,"and-" a cabin," the site of which is agreed to have
been at the .place marked on the plat; but which
is not on his land as surveyqd by the order of the
court.

BODLRY
TAYL'O.

206
NouLnY

SUPRE!E MGUR ' U. 9;

If thew entries were good at the ti=r .4cy we&&made, they never can be adjudged bad afterwards.
STime, by defacing the natural geography, and destroying the witnesses to prove it, cannot destroy an
entry originally good. We cannot-now be obliged
to test, by arti icial geography,, the validity of .a survey made according to the natural geography as it
- "ed at the ime it was made.

1'he presumption, arising from a patent, certainly
-is, that the survey was made according to the entry;
and that presumption ought not to be contradicted
by less evidence than was in existence at the time
the survey was made. At the time Johnson's survey was made, his'settlement was in existence. Its
actual site cannot, now be proved; it is no longer
visible. Is not the patent, then,"conclu;ivp evidenco
that his survey was according to his entry ?
. The caveat process is a positive provision against
the effects of time. If a caveat could be instituted
many years after a patent, after many years' possessian, after 1,200 acret had been. cleared, 20 years
after the entry, 15 after the survey, a new moulded
geographical face, and a generation of witnesses
dead, it wotld subject the goodness of entries, intended to be permanent, to unceasing fluctuation.
It .would be to make titles bad in proportion to the
length of possession under those titles.
What is this suit but an attempt to evade the limita.
tionWWhich the law has wisely prescribed for the process. of caveat? Of what use is a limitation of caveats
atlaw, if caveats in chancery ae to be unlimited? Had
a caveat been prosecuted in proper time, the actual.
site of Johnson's plantation and corn field would
have been ascertaiied and would have controlled
the distance of nine miles.
But now -they make the
nine miles control the actual settlem ent,.and attempt,
by course and distance, and georretkical protraction,
to destroy a survey made originally by geographical
objects.. If the distance would nt then have controlled the actual site, it cannot flo.,
What wa?
law theny.must be the law now.

FEBRUARY, 1809.0

.205

The onus prpbandilies on the complainants. They
have alleged that the defendant's survey was con-trary to his location. In order to support this allegation they-must first prove where his entry. was,
and in order to do that, they mast show where vas
Johnson's actualsettlement. . lhey must do it abThe law does not
solutely and n6t hypothetically.
allow that to be A settlement which is to be found
onl- by course and distanceA presumption of weight enforces the reasonableness of requiring of those who would avail themselves .of a geographical object, proof of its site,
when they use that site to show in themselves a tiile
to property long held by others. It is, that a survey,
made when tie site of the object was visible, is more
likely to correspond with it, than one made after it
is lost. The' less probitbility ought not to overthrow the greater. The first presumption is supported by strong circumstances in addition to the
visibility of Johnson's settlement. Why did the defendant take worse land, as it is agreed'he did, if lie
ought to have taken better? Because he:was controlled and limited to it by Johnson's real seitdem~nt.
This constructioh of his entty, contemporaneous
.ith the existence of the real settlement, contrary
to his own interest, strongly.enforces the reasonable.
ness of adhering to the law by requiring from those.
who assail an old title, and long possession, proof
more than presumptive.
The presumption arising from the'exact admeasuremertto fix a site for Johnson, is extremely weak.
In claiming his pre-emption, did.Johnson measure?
or did he compute? The codntry was then unpopiilated, and infested by Indiang. If he measured, from
whence did he begin? The lick consisted of several,
salt sprizgs, and 500 acres of land were licked and
trodden away. Did he pursue the meanders of the
road, or proceed in a straight line? By folloving a
conjecture, subject to all those casualties, to fix the
site of Johnson, .the place may be mistaken. By
this mistake the title obtained when that site - was

BOIDLZY

T~V,".

206
BoDrY'

TAYLOR.

2UPREAMa COURT U. S.

not matter of conjecture, may be defeate, although
the survey may have been madie according to the
~entry.
An old 'title ought not in. this manner to be destroyed by a new sptculation, nor th'- rules of evidence relaxed to defeat a long possession.
Oldt titles and possession are never overturned,
but saved by presumptions.
In this citse the title
.is supported by 'othber presumptions arising from the
facts stated in the recortl. The entries 'call for
cabins and other geographical objects, disclosing an
intimate knowledge of 'the country.
Kenton, the
locator, :possessed this knowledge, and directed
the surveys whilst the corn. field and domicil of
'Johnson must have been visible. Which is most
probable, thtt Kenton knew where Johnson's actual
settlement was, and that he surveyed accordingly ?
or that Johnson's settlement was the place'found by
the geometrical conjecture, and that Kenton surveyed cohtrary to the known location?
But we contend that the defendant's survey does
not want the aid of presumption;
The subject of entries and surveys are so connected, that they must be .blended. in the argument.
* It must be understood what a location is, before
it can be known whether a survey conforms to it.
By the third section of .the land law "the party
shall direct the location-so specially and precisely as
that others may be enabled with certainty to locate
otter warrants on the adjacent residuum?" The land
lawof Virginia\ consists of two acts of assembly.
Each uses the term location; the first explains what
is meant by the terrm in the second. An actual settler
wag entitled to 400 acres to be surveyed "including
the settlement;" A sett.ment is described bythelaw to
consist in" raising a cro . of corn," &c. A settlem,'nt
then was a visible, geographical object, which fixed
6

FEBRUARY, laO

207

the location of the 400 acres. The -btual settler BODLPY
had alsoa right of pre-emption to 1,000 acres to be6 T"V.
surveyed " adjoinhig the land allowed forsettlte-,'
inent. '
In the -'*ode of surveying Johnson's right,
"
according to the,decree of the, court below, there is

no proof that the actual settlement is included.
Some latitude is left to the party in surveying his
settlement right, under the law.
By appointing judges to decide upon these settlements and- pre-emption locations;. to I eep a record
of the "'quantities and locations" which they aillowed ; to give a certificate descrbing -the particular
location ;" and to furbish the iegister -and surveyor
cc witb a schedule of such certificates," it is demon-:
strated that the legislature considered their judg..mcits to be locations ; and that these locations were
unalterable. Thef 4vere the acti of judges, not of
parties. Johnson's location is a judicial act, and a
judicial exposition of.the law. Johnson could no.t
alter. it. The certificate i.directed to be delivered
to a surveyor, and uppn -his receiving it, not a nV
location, but an entry is allowed " in such way, an&
upon such terms, as are therein prescribed."
If the court below has such a latitude as" to ex-.
clude Johnson's settlement from his survey, had
not he some latitude to survey so as to include it?
The: factitious settleinent assumed by the court was
included in Johnson's first and second surveys, but
not in the third made by order of the court.
T- affect this a process occurs, under the decree,
of. a novel kind."*
-

It is assumed that a nine mile point, measured
straight, or crooked, is Johnrsnis settlement. The
certificate is construed to mean that'not an acre of
Johnson's 1,400 shall approach nearer the licks than
nine miles, and his plantition -or settlement is
placed, in the face of the law, and of probability,
on an edge of a large tract. By- what authority

208

SUPREME COURT U. S.

BoDLzV could the court do this ? The only conditibn of tho
lr
Ty
.law
is,that the settlement right (. e.the 400 acres)
\should
include the settlement or improvement; and
that the pre-emption right, (i. e. the 1,000 acres)
should adjoin the settlement right. With this restridtion only, and that respecting the shape of surveys, (viz, that their breadth should be at least one
third of .their length,) Johnson had a latitude to survey it as he pleased. How can the court, at this
distance of time, deprive him of that- right long
after he had exercised it.
But after having once exercised it he could not
alterit. Can the court now do that for him which he
could liot have done for himself? and thereby overturn titles dependent upon his location?
In fact, this restriction is only extracted from an
incorrect construction of Johnson's certificate.
This certificate consists of two parts; the claim
and the judgment.
The court of commissioners received the claims
verbally, and the clerk stated them in his own langt~age. Johnson's claim was a settlement right,
and- to obtain it, he had only to prove where his
settlement lay,. that the commissioners might describe it, and notify the register and surveyor.
The settlement being ascertained, the law locates
the land by the references "include" and " adjoin."
All beyond, ascertaining the situation of the settlement, was surplusage, and idle.
This was a settlement right, and not a village
right. This is evident from the certificate itself.
1. Because it mentions the date of the settlement, 1776, and adds the words "before the 1st of
January, 1778."
2. It uses the *ords of the law, applicable to 'a
'gettledient right, viz. "to include the settlement;"

FEBRUARY, 1809.

209

whereas the terms of the law relative to village
iights are, "adjacent, or convenient to the village."
3. No village is mentioned.
4. It mentions raising a crop of corn, which wtts
the proper foundation of a settlement right.
But the decree. of the court-below turns on the
word "lying" in the certificate; whether it means
a settlement "lying" or a settlement right "Ilying"
on the east side of the road? Whether Johnson, in
using that expression, meant to apply it to the settlement which .was the foundation of hig c l aim, or to
the thing claimed in consequence of that settle.
ment?
It refers, says the decree, not to the settlement,
but to the 400 acre settlement right,*and to the
1,000 acre pre-emption.
If the whole 1,400 acres could be made the object of reference to the word " lying," then by declaring that no part of them should approach nearer
to some arbitrary point of the 500 acre lick than
nine measured miles, Johnson is thrown entirely to
the east of -the supposed settlement, and the chief
part of his, the Waldens', and th defendant's patents
transposcd to the complainants' 16,000 acre entry.
But if the word "lying" refers to "the settlement'" then it is obvious that Johnson's survey
No. 2. includes the assumed-point of settlement
with far greater coincidence with the Kentucky
precedents; and the survey No. 1. with more still
than the survey No. 3. which shoots out an irregular
proboscis from the settlement right, to, get at the
settlement point.
By these jrrecedents, the settlement is placed in
the centre of the settlement right, and the settlement right in the centre of the pre-emption right,
Vol. V.

Dd

BODLY.
V.

TAYLOR.

210

SUPREME'COURT U. S.

BfOOLEY

surveying from'the settlemenf itself to the cardin A

TAYLOR.

points for quantity.
The law, by saying that the pre-emption right
shall adjoin, not the settlement itself, but the set.
tlement right, countenances-the idea that. it could
not adjoin the actual settlement, because that had
been inicluded in the settlement right. But the surve' No. 3. makes the pre-emption adjoin the settlement itself.
The decree goes upon the idea that the- certificate
locates the 400 acre settlement right, and the 1.,000
acre pre-emption right on a certain point, on the
east side of a road, nine miles from the licks.
But a settlement right is not even mentioned or
alluded to in the whole certificate, whose dnly object was to establish. the fact that a settlement actually had been made at a certain place, and the
number of a6res which the settler claimed, or which
the commissioners allowed in consequence of such
settlement. The right was a legal conseq~ience of
establishing the settlement, and could not be located
but by locating the site of the settlement. When
that site was established, the law located the right.
Some stress is laid upon the words "to include
the above location." If the " above location" was
a location of the whole right, how could the right
include the location? This woull be to say that a
thing may include itself. The thing enclosed must
be less than the thing enclosing. Hence it results
that the "above location" was not a location of the
settlement right but of the settlement only.,
By allowing the 400 acre tract to include the
located settlement on a geographical point located
or situated nine miles from the licks, on the east
side of the road, and the 1,000 acre tract adjoining
the 400 acre tract, and including it, the law is followed correctly, and exactly fulfilled.

FEBRUARY, 1809.

211

To comply with the idea of the decree, great
bodies .of land must be compressed into ,a particle
at the end of the nine mile line, and then be expanded for surface. If the decree had suffered. it
to expand equally in every direction from that
point, the defendant's title would have been safe..
What reason was there to limit this expansion to
If the given distance
one particular direction.
must be .violated to gain the -required surface, why
not expand towards the licksi as well as from them-?
-But Johnson's second survey has bern perfected
by acquiescence. There was no complaint, no' caveat. Suppose the'defendant had surveyed upon
thp ideal basis of Johnson assumed by the court
below, and that universal acquiescence had perfected his title in another place; could he have held
his land by a connection with no title of Johnson,
whilst a perfect title existed at another place, with
which, in his entry, he had connected himself?
If Johnson's and the Waldens' titles are good,'
the defendant's is good also. Those titles can never
be affected by a suit inwbich they are not parties.
Johnson's entry is 25 years of age, his survey 16,
his patent 12; neither has been questioned to this
day, by caveat or suit.
But the continuity of the chain f&rom Johnson to
the -defendant is said to be broken by the want of
an "east side" on the buffald-road, by the want of
an I east side" to Johnson's first and second survey,
and by want of an "east and south-east sides," by
John Walden. There being no such I.east sides"
Johnson could not lie on the " east side" of the
road. A. Walden could not lie on the " east side"
of Johnson, nor the defendant on theast and southeast sides of John Walden. Accordingly the decree
has provided in the survey No. 3. an " east side"
for Johnson, by a north and south line for A,. Walden to adjoin, and similar sides for J. Walden and
the defendant, violating the positive provision of

BODLEY
A

.

012
]3ODLz-.Y
V,

TAYLoR.
'

SUPREME COURT U. S.

law as to the length and breadth of surveya Bu4
in the language of these locations, "1on the east side"
means no more than that the lands are to lie eastward-, or on the easterly side or part of. They do
not necessarily suppose that the surveys must absolutely have an exact north and south line. Xt
means aspect, one part of a body opposed to another
part of the same body. In this sense every tract of
land must have an east side.
As locators had a very considerable latitude in
making thir surveys; and as entries might join
each other before any of them were actually surveyed, if the. principles of the'-decree are just, and
nbthing but a north and south line will make an
east side, it would put it, in the power of the first
locator to prevent the second locator from joining
him at all, and of course to destroy the validity of
his neighbour's entry. This could not be the intention of the law.. Kenton used the term "side " ,
with a knowledge of this latitude.
He therefore
did not intend to use it in a sense which would destroy his locations. He used it merely to show the
geographical relation of one entry to another.
Again; ihese entries call, not for surveys, but
for each other. In John Walden's the words "joining the above entry" are expressly used. How dan
the east side of an entry be converted into a' north
and south line of a subsequent survey. The calls
are to couple entries to entries ; subsequent entries
to previous entries, not previous entries to subsequent surveys.
It is by blending geometry and geography, in con
sidering entries, that inaccurate construlctions prevail; whereas the latter only is necessary.
But the complainants' entry is bad in not giving
any geographical notice. The letters 1. T. cut in
the bark of a tree do not constitute a geographical
object. A location was r. quired not to enable a
man to find his owa land, but to enable others to avoid

FEBRUARY, 1809.

213

it. Admit- that the complainants can find their be- BoDExY
v.
" the ques- TAYLOUi.
ginning, the letters I. "1,it doe§ not affect
tion whether this artificial geography can be-a good
location. We may find what we hide, but w.hat we'
can hide is not a geographical feature in the face of
the cotntrv. An object taken as the basis of an
entry oughit to be such as a person acqaainted with
the country might have: known before the entry
was made.
The defendant's entry had not been' surveyed
when the complainants' entry was made. It had not
then mistaken its area, as the decree now contends.
It was a good entry,'as the decree admits.. Being
good, the'titib to the land it covered was vested in
the defendant, not liable to be re-entered,- and not
capable of being devested by a younger entry. The
younger entry therefore was void as to-this vested
tile. Being void, it "could only be made good by a
survey and. patent. The elder, entry, if originally
void also, is made good by the same means.
If the defendani has no tide, so far as his entry
was' void, the complainants can have no title so far
s theirs was void; or if subsequent events could
perfect theirs, the same events could perfect his.
If the complainants have the eldest surv-ey for the
lands said by the decree to have been within the defendant's entry, he has the eldest for thosefsaidftobe
within theirs. The parallelin the cases is complete,.but. the decree .has not seen it. It has given the complainants
the land they claim of the defendant, and also that
which the defendant has a right to claim upon the
same Drinciples,
Is an entry, a survey, or a patenti the basis of a
title ? The incipient and the final step, the entry and
the patent, are fbr the defendant. The complain.
ants have the eldest .survey as to the 10,00o acre
entry. But neither the survey nor its .registry can

214,
3

1 ODLZY

TAYLOIt.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

give priority of title. The incipient and the final
act being in favour of thedefendant, equity will not
Sdeprive a fair purchaser of the advantage, in order
to do him Wrong.
The law directs an endorsation on the patent ".that
the patentee has title." The decree declares " that
his title shall, depend on parol testimony fdr" 10, 15,
or 2 0ears."

How far courts of equity are bound by the positive law, is still a question. Whether; with the
courts of Virginia, they will stop at the case of
fraud or accident having prevented the institution
of a- caveat, followed speedily by an 'application
to equity for relief, or whether they will examine,
during 20, 30, or 100 years, every cikcumstanci
capable ,of being examined by caveats, is to be the
precedent.
The law and equity ofthe case are so intimately
Mended, that in discussing the one, much 6t the
<ther has been anticipated.
Two grounds of equity are set up by the complalnants.

I. An irregularity in the defendant's survey.
They make no objection to his entry, and by charging the survey with non-conformity, they admit
that the entry imay be conformed to; they pretend
also t6 show in what manner.
2. That one of their surveys was first made,
returned and registered.
The defendant on his side claims equity too:
1. From. length of time.
Though courts of
equity are not bound by acts of limitation, in some
cases, they are in others. -There must be some ingredient to take a case out of an act of limitation,

FEBRUARY, 1809.'
after it has fallen within it.
m -act of limitation.

215

The caveat process is

•

Even in cases most deemed by equity to 'fal
under the strict letter of laws of limitation, courts
of equity, in:computing a reasonable length' of time,
will respect such laws as: legislative 'computations

founded in reason.
WTitten.testimony is supposed,- by the laws of
Virginia, to be a reasonable object of confidence,
until twenty years have expired. Precedents in chancery have diminished this term to eighteen.. Oral
testimony maintains its credibility in some cases for
five years, in -othersfor a shorter term, and in contests capable of being tried by caveat, for six
months only. 'This computation is made upon the
particular Circumstances inimical to sucli testimony.
in every case. These circumstances induced the
legislature, in cases of caveat, to refuse credibility
to oral testimony for more than six months. 'But
the complainants demand it for twenty years.
2. The defendant claims equity froni the surveyor's negligence, in not having surveyed with- the
regularity required by law.
The law is imperative that he should give notices.
Except for this .breach of duty in the officer, the
defendant would have surveyed ard patented beforb
the c.omplainants entered. And ;t survey and patent could not have been destroyed by a subsequent
entry*
Equity considers that as done which ought to
have been done. The neglect of the surveyor was
a real injury to the defendant, out, of which grew
not a real injury, but the-semblance of an injur to
the complainants. If the first neglect had not happened, the case of the complainants would have
been just as it now is. If by that neglect they had
obtained an unjust advantage over the defendant,

8obDLz

vTL

TAYLOR;

"216

SUPREME COURT U. S.

even, a caveat, or at least a suit in chancery, would
Can they be injured by not
have relieved him'.
TArLoa. obtaining, from this neglect, that which both law-and
justice would have taken from them? The defendant has in fact the eldest equity as well 2isthe-eldest
patent.
3. The third ground of the defendant's - equity
is,
that the complainants have gotten better land belonging, as th py say, to the defendant, and, therefore,
bave suffizred.no injury: that they are bound by
their acquiescence; and. that it would be unjust
to make.an exchange now, .as it would depriyve the
defendant of his old patent, and, ppssibly, invole
him in more litigation.

BDo.zy
Tv

The following. caes were cited in behalf of the
original defendant, viz.
On the question upon the construction of the
entries:
Hughes's Rep. 110. 124. Kenny v. Whitledge.
Hughes's Rep. 14, x5. Pawlingv. ./ereweather.M5.
7ohnson v. Mgaul. MS. Yones v. "Craig. Htughes's
Rep. Yackson & Owens v. Whitaher & Wife, and
Ward v. Kentan & Fox. MS. Speed v. Lewis.
MS. Drahe v,R4mney. Hu.gho,'s Rep Ramsay &
Logie v. DraAe. Bryant v. Owens & Walkice.
Sneed's Rep. 9. Wilson v. Speed Id. 396. F'razier
V. Steele.

And upon the question of jurisdiction: Hughes's
Rep. 2. 181. 1 Wash. 116. 2 Wash. 48.
Argmentfor.,the originalcomplainants.
A.11 h -good. lands in Kentuicky.are subject to at
In this case Taylor
leat 'tw onteading entries.
had. the, first entry, .b.it .Bodley had the first survey.
As to the question. of jurisdiction, it has been
long settled 'as a good ground of equity that the de-

FEBRUARY, 1809.

217

f~ndaut had obtained a legal tide to' which the plaintiff had a prior or better equity; and a court of
law could not sustain an equitable against a -legal
title.
If the plaintiff shows an equitable title, the de-.
fendant must not only show his legal title, but he
must support it by an equity equal at least to that
of' the plaintiff; for in equity the legal estate stands
for nothing. Sneed's Rep. 43. 46, 47. ksuarles
v. Brown. Consella v. Briscow. .Swearingen v.
g riscow. 1 Wash. 230. Hughes's Rep. 53. Fry v.
.Ezra. Id. 88. 92. Smith v. .Evans, Id. 110. Greenup
v. Coburn. Sneed's Rep. 32. South v. Bowles. Id.
.
52. Bradford v. Allenz Id. 1;30. Bruce v. Taylor might have had a remedy by caveat if he.
would. But the remedy by caveat is or.ly a concurrent remedy. It is not a remedy which can apply.
to all tases. A man may not know of a survey in
time to enter his caveat.
The neglect of the process by caveat is no bar-ta
relief in equity. Harwoodv. Gibbons, MS. Myers
v. Speed, Hghes's Rep. 97. Kenton v. ZfConnell,
-Hughes'sRep. 140. :Picletv. Bib, MS.
If the court has jurisdiction, -the next question
is, whether the complainants' entry is legal and suffily-certain.
eieny
Two questions arise.respecting every entry- 1. Is
it sufficiently specific? 2. Is the same land surveyed
which is depcribed in the, entry ?
It is sufficiently specifi'e if the land can be found
by a .reasonable search. At the time of the complainants'.entry, nothing was more notorious in Kentucky than a lick and a bufalo-road. There is a
difference Where a distance is- mentioned only to
lead you to a part of the country where yod will
find a specific object which is described as the beVol. V.

e

BonLSI
TAYOL.

218
no3LzY
V.

TAYLOR.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

ginhing of a tract; and where the beginning is at the
end of a patticular line.
fhere must always be a general description, and
a particular description.
It was not necessary that the marked trees should
be notorious. You would be led to them by a reference to notorious objects, the blue licks, and the
buffalo-roadi Gr'eenup'y. Coburn, Hughes's Rep. 104.
Carter-v. , Hughes's Rep. 182. 7ohnson v.

.Bt own, Hughes's Rep. 60.

Sneed's Rep. 105.

If the complainants' entry be siafficiently certain,
the next question is as to that of. the defendant.
The defendant's entry -depends upon John Walden's, which depends-upon Ambrose Walden's, which
depends 'upon Peter Johnson's.
If Peter Johnson's be uncertain, tie rest are uncertain.
Peter Johnson's 400 acres, being his settlement
right, were to lie on the east side of the upper
buffalo-road, and'nine miles from the licks.
The beginning of the tract was to be nine miles
from the lick, not the middle of the tract. The
question then is, how is the survey to be made?
Are you to follow th6 meanders. of the road to- ascertain the nine miles, or to take a point nine- miles
distant from the lick on a straight line? Are you
to foIlI'w the road in running the lines of the survey? It would be impossible to be accurate as to
the meanders of the road.
The buffaloes make
generally a number- of paths not parallel. to each
other, sometimes approaching and again -diverging,
sometimes occupying a broad space which is all
called the road; and they often meander so much,
'that after travelling nine miles you may not be a
mile distant from the place of beginning. A distance upon a water-course is always measflred in a
:traight line, without regard to the meanders of *the

FEBRUARY, 1809.

219

So we say it ought to be understood when
speaking of a buffalo-road.

stream.

The whole of Peter Johnson's 1,400 acres were
to lie on the east side of the road; but the claimant below4 has placed part of it on the west side.
The proper. mode of surveying Peter Johnson's claim is,to begin at the end of nine miles
upon a straight line, and so make the, whple survey
on the east -side of tle road in the form 6' .a
square, making the general course of the road the
base lie of the survey.
But Ambrose Walden's land could not be bounded by a mere right of pre-emption, which was undefined, unlocated, and might never be'carried into
effect. It was a mere possibility. t'here must be
an entry of a pre-emption before it can be considered
as locahted, and tintil it be located it cannot be sur,
veyed. Pdrter v. Gass, Sneed's Rep. The. case
of Kenny v'W zledge'apilies only to,village rights.
Patrick v. Woods, 'Hughes' Rep. Sneed's Rep.
330. 336. 270.
If it could not adjoin the pre-emptioi. right,
neither cd'ud it adjoin the settlement right, because.
the call was to join the 1,400 acre tract claimed by
Peter Johnson, and not his 400 acre tiact.
The defendant has lost his right to the land conmaking his.survey contrary
taied i his entry,
to his location. When the. survey is made, alth ugh
erroneously, it is an execution of the warant, and
puts an end to the entry as such. The warrant, as
well as the entry, is functus offio.
In these cases a court of chancery does not act
upon equitable principles only, but is merely to decide which party has the legal right to the patent.
It is only a chancery form of deciding a legal
right. The court cannot require the complainants
to give up to the defendant the land which the de-

BoDLY"
TAYLOR.

no
VA

-LoEL,

SUPREME COURT VJ. S.

ffendunt might have surveyed under lis entry-, but
It is not
true in principle that the-defendant is entitled
to get
his land somewhere; he .did not purchase with that
understanding. The state did not so contract.
which he failed to survey in proper time.

When a man surveys contrary to his location he
loses his equity. These are-statutory rights,-And therefore to be decided strictly according to the statute.
An entry is a legal right; it descends to heirs; it
s subject to ezecutiti&; it maybesold and transferred.
Thesu points have all been decided by the courto of
An B. K

*ioreply.

There cannot-be wo valid entrieb of the same land
a tthe same tiie.
-hen
a first entry is forfeited the land is. again
waste and unappropriated; and not till then can a
second entry of the same land be valid. A second
entry made while the first was valid is void.

If Taylor's entry was valid, it gave a legal right,
descendible, &c. The land was nolonger waste and
unappropriated or vacant. The entry of the complainants, while Taylb' entry was in force, was a
mullity, and ga ,e them no right either at law or in
equity.
.Februaryith,

A80Y.

MARSHALL, Ch. 3., The court has been. able to
form an opinion as to a part only of' this .case.

That the court as a court of chancery has jurisdiction of such cases, is a point established by':a long
course of practice in Virginia and in Kentucky; but
in the oxercise of 'that jifrisdiction, it will proceed
accordip:z to the principles of equity.' In such cgse,
a prior eotry will be. considered as notice tohim

PEBRUARY, ' 09.

221

who has the legal title, If such entry be sufficiently B1D3wV
certain. And the legal title will be considered as TAYLOR.
holden for -him Who has the prior equtW.

Ilkarck 14th, 1809.
MARSHALL, Ch.'. delivered the opinion of the
court as follows:

Thisl'is an appeal from a decree of the court for
the district of Kentucky, by which Taylor was directed to convey to Bodley and others a part of a
tract of land to which he held an elder patent,, bun
to.which Bodley and others claim the better right
under a junior patent. The judge of the district
court having directed such part of the land held by
Taylor to be conveyed to Bodley and others, as ap.
peared by certain rules, which he has applied to the
case, to be within their claim, and not within Taylor's
location, and having dismissed their bill as to- the
residue each party has appealed from his decree.
Previous to any discussior of the rights of the
parties, it has become necessary to dispose of a preliminary question.
The defendant in the court below objects to the
jurisdiction of a court of equity, and contends not
only that the present case furnishes no ground of
jurisdiction, upon general principfei, but that the
land law under which both titles originate, jin giving
a remedy by which rights under entries might be
decided previous to the emanation of a patent, has,
prohibited an examination of the same question
-after a p.tent shall have issued.
Had this been a case of the first impression, some
contrariety of opinion would perhaps have existed on
this point. But it has been sufficiently shown that the
practice of resorting to a court of chancery in order
to set up an equitable against -the legal title, received, in its -origin, the sanction of the court of ap-

22
BODLE'
V.
Ta.M

SUPREME COURT U'. S.

peals" while Mentucky"remainedra part-6f Virginia',
and has been so confirmed by-an uninterrupted series

decisions as t&be incorporate'd into their system,
and to be taken into view, in .the consideration of
evvry tide tolands in-dhat ountry. - Such a principle cannot now- be shaken.

Sof

.But it is an inquiry of -vast importance whether,
in deciding claims of this dpscription, a court of
eqixty acts upon its known, established and general
principles. or is. merely substituted for aLcburt of
law,-with power to decide questions respecting rights
under 'the statute, as iey existed .previous to the
cQnsummatioft 6f those rights by patent.
It has been -argued that the right acquired by an
entry is a legal right; hecause-it is given by a statute,
that it is the statutory inception of a legal title which
gives to the person making it a right, against every
person 'not having -a prioi entry, to obtain a patent
and to hold-thehand. The iniference drawn from
this is, that as the law affords no remedy against a
person tvho has defeated this right by improperly
obtaining, a priorpatent, a.court of chancery, which
can afford it, ought to consider itself as sitting in the
character of a court of law,'and ought to decide
th6se questidos as' a court of law, would decide
them, if capable -of looking beyond the patent.
Tiis reasoning would perhaps be conclusive if a .
court of chancery was, by statute, siibstituted in the
place of a 'court of law, wvith an express grant of
jurisdiction iD- the care. But the jurisdiction exercised by -a court of' chancery is. not granted by
statute; it is assumed by.itself: and what can justify
that assumption but the opinion that cases of this
description come within the sphere 'of its general
action ? * In all cases in which a court of equity
takes jurisdiction, it will exercise that jurisdiction
upon its own principles,
t'is believed that no exception-to this rule is to be found in the books, and
the- state of land-titles'in. Kentucky is not believed
to furpish one. The,true ground of the jurisdie6

FEBRUARY, 18o9.

.23*

don of a court of equity is, that an entry is considered as a record of which a subsequent .locator may have niotice, and therefore must b- presumed-to have it; consequently, although he may
obtain the first patent, he is liable, in equity, to the
rules which apply to a subsequent purchaser with
notice of a prior equitable right. This certainly
brings the validity of the 6ntries ,beforg the court,
but it- also brings with that question every other
which defeats the equity of the plaintiff.
The court, therefore, will entertain jurisdiction
of the cause, but will exercise that jurisdiction in
conformity with the settled principles of a court of
chancery. It will afford a remedy which a court of
given"
law cannot afford, but snce that remedy is not
by statute, it will be applied by this. court as tlie
principles of equity require its application.
Neither is the compact between Virginia -and
Kentucky considered as affecting this case.
If the same measure of justice be meted to the
.citizens of each state, if laws be neither made nor
expounded for the purpose of depriving those who
are protected by that compact,, 'of their rights, no
violation of thatcompact is perceived.
The court will proceed, then, to inquire into the
rights'ofthe parties, and, in making this inquiry,
will pay great respect.to all those principles which
appear to be well established in .the state in which
the lands in controversy lie.
Taylor holding the eldest patent, it is necessary
that the complainants below should found their title
on a good entry. The validity of their entry, there-.
fore, is the first subject of examination.
It was made on the 17th of October, 1!83, and
is in these words; " Henry Crutcher and John
Tibbs enter 10,000 acres of land on a treasury warrant, beginning at a large black ash and small buckeye marked thus, I. T. on the side of a buffalo-

BOVLY
TAYLOR.

2N
3

SUPREME COURT T 8,

o1v" a-oad leadiag ftom the lower blue licks a

T'&YLOR.

N, E.

,ourse, and abooit seven miles N. 9. by E. from
ani49blue licks," &d.

s

The only objection to this entyy is, that the begiaS.m.g is uncertain.
Were th e vaidlity of' t
objection to be adanftted, it would shake almost eVery titJe in Kentuckvy.
Xf it be recolle~ted hat almost every acre of good
land in that state was located at a time when only 7a
few individials, collected in scattered forts or villages, encroached on the'rights of the savages and
bild beasts of the country, that n~ither these sparse
settlers, nor those hardy adventurers who travelled
thither in quest of. lands, could venture out to ex"plorethe country., without-emposing their lives to im'minent hazoard, that many of those who had thus
explored the countryI, and who made locations, were
unlettered men, not only incapable of eupounding
the laws, but somie of them incapable of reading, it
is not wonderful that the courts of Kentutky should
have relaxed, in some degree, the rigour of the rule
requiring an impracticable prdcision in making eutries, sh6uld have laid hold of every circumstance

which might afford that certainty which the law has
required, and should be content with that reasonable certainty which would enable a subsequent loca40r, by the enercie of a, due- degree of judgment
and diligence, to locate his own lands on the adjacent residuum.
The entry of Crutcher and Tibbs possesses this
reasonable certainty.
The blue licks was a.lace of general notoriety,
and there-appears to-have been no difficulty in ac-

certaining the poinat from whih thd mensuration
should commence. There being only one of the
three roads leading from that point, which ran nearly
a N. E. course, no subsequent locator could doubt

on which road this land was placed. The ,entry
having called for visible objects on the road about

'FEBRUARY, 18o9.

225

seven miles -from the licks, those visible objects BVL-V?
might be discovere;1 without'any extraordinary ex- TAyi.ot.
ertion; and if they could not be discovered, then
that call, according .to the course of decisions in
Kentucky, would be discarded, and -about seven
But
miles would be considered as seven miles.
those objects remained, and it appears that no difficulty has arisen, or ought to arise, on this. point.
The jury have found it to -be the beginning called
for in' the entry.
The entry, therefore, of Crutcher and Tibbs is
sufficiently certain, -and the court will prbceed to
examine 'the entry and survey' of Taylor.
This entry being the last link of a 'chain: com.
mencing with Jacob Johnson, it is necessary to fix
Jacob Johnson, in order to ascertain the position of
Taylor.
Jacob Johnson's title is a settlement and'pre.emp.
tion; a certificate for which was granted by -the commissioners, oi the 7th day of Januiary, 17.80, id the
following terms.
Peter Johnson, 'heir at law of Jacob Johnson, deceased, this day claimed a settlement and pre-efnption
to a tract of 'land in the district of Kentudky, lying
on the _ast side of the buffalo-road leading from the
blue licks to 'Limestone, nine miles from the lick
on the upper road, by the saia decedent's *raising a
crop of corn-in the year 1176. Satisfactory proof
being made to the court, they are of opinion thait
the said Peter Johnson, &c. has a right to a settlement of 400 acres of land to include the above location, and the pre-emption of 1,000 acres adjoining,
and that a certificate issue accordingly.
On the 21st of February,1780,.this certificate, so
far as respected the settlement of 400 ar.s, -was entered with the surveyorIt is the opinion of the court that the 400 acres
VoL V.

Ff

M6
BoDLzy
O.

1UPPREM cOUT U. S.

of land should lie entirely on the east side of the
road, that it should beqin at the distance of nine
imles,
and that those miles should be -computed not
by k straight line, but according to the meanders of
the road,
In this respect the court perceives a clear distinction between a call for one place by its distance from
another, if the intermediate space be entirely woodsy"
or if a stream, which cannot well be followed, passes
from the one to the other, and where a road is called
for, which conducts individuals from point to point,
The distance of places from each other i§ not generally
computed by a stream not navigable, but is always
computed by a road which.is.travelled. It is, therefore, the opinion of the court that where, as in this
case, there is no other call 'in the entry showing a
contrary intent, and the entry is placed on a road at
a certain distance from a given point by which the
road passes, the distance is to be computed by the
meanders of the road, and not by a straight line.
The beginning of ,Johnson's settlement .beitt
foutid, and its western side being placed along the
road, the next inequiry is, in what manner the land is
.to be surveyed.
In order.to give certainty to locations of this description, the courts of Kentucky have uniformly
determined that they shall be understood as being
made in a square. Johnson's line upon the road,
therefore, must extend. along the road until two
lines at right anjfes from each end. of this base
shall, with a third line parallel to the general course
of the road, include, in a figure which, if the rpad
be reduced to a straight line, would make a square,
the quantity of 400 acres on the east side of the
road.
The next link in this chain -of entries,, on which
the title of Taylor depends, is Ambrose Walden's,
On the 22d of May, 1780, Ambroe Whldigi en-

PPSIRVAIR

,

1809.

2i

o Lut
*qee& 1,Sft- acres on the east side of- Jacob JohnV.%
of
on the
.
AyLo4..
. waters
.
.
, pre-emption,
".
son's settlement• and
-O,
Johnson's fork, a branch of licking, to include •
two cabins on the n.orth side of said fork, built h

.

Simon Butler, and to run eastwardly for quantity.
The cabins, it is said, cannot be found; or, if
found, -cannot be diqtinguished.. The - waters of
Johnson's fork would be to ovague, and, therefore,
the validity of this entry must depend on' the call
for Johnson's settlement and pre-emption,
This is said to be insufficient, [b.cadse-the preemption had not, at that time, been'located with
the surveyor, and the certificate of the commission4
ers was no location. Johnson's pre-emption, there.
fore, had, on the 92d of May, 1780, tio locality,
subsequent entry could not depend updn'it; for it
might be placed in any situati;on, or in anr form,
provided it be so placed as to .adjoin his settlement
an any point.
The argument with respect to the pre-emption ap-"
pears to. the court to be conclusive. 'This pre-emp,
ion right certainly had no locality on the 22d of
May, 1780, and an entry made to depend entirely,
on it would have been too vague, too uncertain, to
be maintained. But it doeh not follow that the entry of Ambrose Walden is void. He does not call
singly for the pre-emption, he calls for " the east sid e
of Johnsonis settlement andpre-emption right;" and
it seeias to the court that a fair application of' the
principles which have gov.erned in Kentucky in
Miiilar cases, will maintain this location.
The settlemefit was actually located; the,pr.e-emp.
tion, at the time, had no other than a potential existence; and the uniform course of decisions appears
to have been to discard one call which is either impossible or uncertain, .arnd-to support the entry, if
there be other calls which /are sufficiently certain.
The decisions have gone so fa'r as to dismiss a part
of the 'description of a singl call; if other terms of

228
BODLEY

v.
TAYLOR.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

description be sufficient to ascertain the thing called
for. Now the call for the settlement right is valid
and certain; and the court is not of opinion that

this certainty is renored uncertain by being united
to the call for a pre-emption: which had no real enisteniceo
The call appears to be substantially the same as
if it had been ftr the land of Johnson. His settlement and pre-emption m;as perhaps the name which,
in common parlance,- designated this land even before the location of the pre-emption, because it was
appendant to the settlement. It has been decided
that a call for the land would be good, and the court

thinks that decision applicable to this- case.Against this has.,been urged the doubt. which a
subsequent locator woufd have entertained at the
time, whether Johnson might not have been permit.
ted to locate his pre-emption on any land adjoining
his settlement, and whether Walden's entry calling
for that pre-emption might be decided to be good,
and to be placed so as to bind upon it.. This doubt,
it is said, though now removed, then existed, and
would havre operated on the mind of the subseqiuent
locator.
The force of this argument will not be denie&
But it must also be admitted that it applies with
equal strength to the course of artificial re'asoning
which has governed the decisions of the courts of
Kentucky. and on -which the titles of the people. -of
that country depend. Subsequent locators must
have doubted in what manner any of these questions
would be decided. But having been decided,'.the
certainty which they have introduced is carriedback
to the time when the location. was. made, and affirms
that location.
It has also been said that it is uncertain which
side of Johnson's setthmnt is the east side, and.
that, in point of fa'ct, the upper side, or that furthest

FEBRUARY, Isog.

229

from the blue licks, faces the east more nearly than
any other.
However this- fact may be, the court is of opinionthat the terms of Johnson's entry designate his east
aide.

His settlement is to. lie on the east side of

the road.. The road, then, in contemplation of the
locator, forms.the west side, and. the side opposite
the road must be the east side. The entry mist
have been so understood by all subsequent locators;
and when they call for his east side, the intention to
place themselves on the side opposite the roa is
sufficiently intelligible.
In this, as in other difficulties which occur in
the course of the inquiry, it is material to observe
that the bill does not. charge Taylor's entry to be
void for uncertainty. On the contrary it impliedly
admits the certainty of his location- and charges
that his survey does not conform to it. The real
question, then, is not whether Taylor shall be surveyed at all, but where he shall be placed.
The entry of Ambrose Walden, then, will lie on
the east side of Johnson's settlement, that-is, on. the
side opposite the road; and, this point being established, the manner in which. his land is to be surveyed is free from further doubt. It is to be laid
off in a square, the centre of the base line of which
is to be the centre of the South-eastern line of Johnpon's settlement.
The next entry to be considered is that of John
Walden. He enters 1,666 2-3 acres joining Ambrose Walden, ozi the south and south-east, and to
run east and south-east for quantity.
Although Ambrose Walden has no south side,
yet it is sufficiently apparent that his south-west side
was intended by the locator. The difficulty arises
from the subsequent call of the entry to run east and
south-east for quantity. A line drawn east from
Ambrose Walden's south-western corner would pass
.

BoDLEV'

v.
TAYLOS-

230
80DIaE

TLVo.

~~3O
SUPRYBM2 CiulaT t. S.

through the middle of his land, and a lige drawh

south-east from the same corner would pass either
Sthrough
or so near his land as to make it almost impossible to suppose that'the locator could have intended" to make so long and narrow a triangle. The
reasonable partiality of Kentucky for rectangular
figures must, therefore, decide the shape of John,
Walden's land, and regulate the manner in which
this call of his entry is to be understood. *Ambrose
Walden's north~western line must be extended to
the south, and a line must be drawn due east from
his eastern corner, so that a-line parallel to his southeastern line intersecting a line drawn south-east
from the extremity of the north-western line of Ambrose Walden continued shall lay off 1,666 2-3 acres
of land in equal quantities on the northern and
south-eastern sides of Ambrose.
It is not to bb disguised that there is much
difficulty in-placing John Walden, but the court can
I erceive no mode of placing him more conformable
to the principles which prevail in Kentucky than
'that which it has adopted.
We are now brought to Taylor's entry.
On the 22d-of May, 1780, John Taylor-enters
3,000 acres adjoining John Walden on the north
side of Johnson's fork of licking, an the east and
south-east side, running up and down said creek,
and north for quantity, to include an improvement
made by Jacob Drennon and Simon Butler.
There is to John Walden's land no east side, nor
any side so nearly east as the south-east side. The
word side, being in the singular number, and the
same side answering, better than any other, both
parts of the description, the land must lie on the
south. east ide.
It is .also thought to be the more reasonable construction of the entry that the words, on the -north
side of Johnson's fork, refer to ,the situation of
6

FEBRUARY, 1809.

231

John Walden's laid, not to the location of Tiylors. Bioirnr
but this is probably not important in the case. Tay- TA.LdR.
lor is to lie on the south-east of Walden, to include
an improvement *made by Drennon and Butler, to
run up and down the creek, and 'north for quantity."
With these calls, it would have been the opinion
of the court that Taylor could not cross the creek,
had not his entry called for an object on the south
aide of the creek. That object is the improvement
made by Jacob Drennowahnd Simon Butler.
It has been said, that the country was covered
with cabins, and that therefore this call was no designation-of the'.land that.was located. This argument is correct so far as-it is urged to prove that
this would not be sufficient, as a general description,
to enable subsequent locators to say in what part of
the country this entry was made. Neither would
the letters I. T. marked on a tree answer this purpose. But, when brought into the neighbourhood
by other parts- of the description, these letters serve
to ascertain the beginning of the entry under which
the claim adversary to that of. Taylor is supported.
-So Taylor informs subsequent locators of the neighbourhood in which his land lies, by calling for the
south-east side of John Walden's entry, on the
north of Johnson's fork, which is found by a reference to. other entries which commence at a point of
public notoriety. When brought to the .south-east
side of John Walden, he is near the cabin called fori,
and it does not appear that there was, in the neighbourhood, any other -cabin which this entry could
possibly be understood to ihclude. This.part of the
description, then will carry Taylor to the souti
side of Johnson's fork, and, if permitted to cross
that fork, the favourite figure of the square muist be
resorted-to. Against this it is said that, in such-a
case, the rule of Kentucky will carry him no further
than barely to include the object of his call. But
'this rule cannot apply to this case, because it would
give a survey the breadth -of which would not be
one third of its length.

232
BODLEY

TAYLoR.
N'V

SUPREME COURT U. S.

It is impossible to look at the general plat returned in this case without feeling a conviction that
the surveyor considered that fork which, in the-plat,
is termed mud lick fork, as Johnsons fork; and
there is no testimony 'i the cause which shows that
when this location was made, that mi'ldle stream
which Tuns through Taylor's sarvey was 'denominated Johnson's fork. The finding of the jury,

however, that the roads and water-courses are rightly
laid down, must induce the opinion that this fact
was .proved to them.
Rn a case where the mistake is so obvious, the
rule which, under circumstances so dotibtful, relative to place, deprives the person, in surveying'
vhose property the mistake has been made, of his
legal title, appears to be a severe rule to be adopted
in a court of equity. But such is the situation of
land -titles in Kentucky, that the rule must be inledxible.
Taylor, then, must adjoin John Walden on his
south-east side, where that line crosses Johnson's
fork, if it does cross it, and if it does not, then at
its south-eastern extremity, which will be nearest
Johnson's fork. If a square formed upon the whole
line shall coutain less than three thousand acres,
then two lines are to be extended due north until,
,with a line running east and west, the quantity of
three thousand acres shall be contained in the whole
figure, If such a square shall contain more than
three thousand acres, then it is to be laid off on so
much of Walden's line .as -to -contain -the exact quantity.
This being the manner in which it appears to -the
court that Taylor's entry 'ought to be surveyed,
it remains to inquire whether; under the principles
wvhich govern a court of equity in affording its aid
.to an equitable against a legal .title, the complainants
below ought to recoVer any; and, if any, what par.
of the lands surveyed by Taylor, ad -if any, what.
terms are to be imposed up ' them.

FEBRuARY, imo9.

123$

The entry as well as patent of Taylor igprior ro
"
that under which the complainants in the district'
court assert their tide. Of the entries made within
their location, therefore, they had that implied notice
which gives a court of equity jurisdiction of this
cause. They cannot object to the operation of a
principle which enables them to come into court.
But, in addition to this principle, they must be considered as having notice, in fact, of these locations,
The position of the entries of both plaintiffs and defendant is ascertained by calling for" certain, distances along the same road from the same object.
Crutcher and Tibbs, therefore, when they made
their location, knew well that they included the
Waldens and Taylor, and that their entry could
give them no ,pretensions to the lands previously,
entered by thoqe persons. If, by any inadvertence,
the Waldens and Taylor have surveyed land to
which Crutcher and Tibbs were entitled, and have
left to Crutcher and Tibbs land to which the Waldens and Taylor were entitled, it would seem to the
court to furnish no equity. to Crutcher andT-ibbs
against the legal title which is held by their adversaries, unless they will submit to the condition. of
restoring the lands .they have gained by the inadvertence of which they complain.
The court does not liken this inadvertent survqy
of lands, not within the location, to withdra~ring pf
the warrant and re-entering it in another .place.
The latter is the act of the min4 intentionally abandoning an entry once made: the former is no act
of the mind, -and so far from evidencing an intention to. abandon, discovers an intention to adhere to
the appropriation once made. Although their lgal effect may be the same, yet they are not the
same with a person who has gained -by the inadvertence, and applies to a court of equity to increase that gain.
Was this, fhen, a case. of the first impression,
the court would strongly incline to the opinion
Vol. V.

G

BODLEY

V.

TAYLOR.

SUPMEME COURT U. S.

2316
'o.DoxY
V.
TAYLOR.

that'Bodley and Hughes. ought, .uot to, receive z
conveyance for the lands within Taylor's survey,
aid not within his entry, but on the condition of
their consenting, to convey,.to him the lands they
hold which were within his entry and are not. included in his survey. But this is not a case of the
first imrpr.ssion. The court is compelled to believe
that the principle is really settled in. a manner- different from that which this court- would deem..cor•rect, It is. impossible to say how many tijles might
The very
be shaken by shaking the principle.
extraordinary state of land title in that; country,
has competled its judges, in a series of decisions,
to rear up an artificial pile from which no piece
can be taken, by hands, not intimately acquainted
with the building, withput end'angering the structure,
and producing a misdhief to. those holding under.
it, the extent of which may not be. perceived. The
rule as. adopted must be pursued.
Taylor, then, must he srveyed according to the
principles' laid down in this decree, and must convey to the plaintiffs below the lands lying within
his patent and theirs, which were not within hii entry.

TAYLOR AND QUARLES V-.BROWN.

E ROR td the district court for the Kentucky
The first sur.
c%.
- ',der a ..
ilitary laud district, in a suit i cnancety, wherein Tavlor and
,warat. in Qfarl s were compl'ainauts against Brown. The
was dismissed by the
bill of the complainants
.
tile prior iives
equiCourt below.
Both partieg claimed under military warrants
t3 ppropria
'The eertifi- upon the king's proclamation, for services rendered
cate ,f survey p
issuffirienteO. prior to !he year. 1.763.
ty. The survey is the ret

deiic that the
W21*1Lwsin
The.
-the aatrisin

the survibyor.

complainants claimed under a watrant h%
nzgus M'Donald, for 2,000 acres issued

Javour of

