SUPREME COURT U. S.

Wise, jun. for the use of my creditors, as will ap-

tAzcu

pear; reference being had t6 the said deed."

&"

He does not directly affirm that it is, or is not,
-his property. He might have taken the oath although
fie knew that the property contained in the deed
remalned in himself. The schedule, therefore, was not
such as the law requires. The transaction is fraudulent upofi the face of it.
The discharge, being, granted by an incompetent
tribunal, is wholly void.
Judgment reversed.

THE UNITED STATES v. 'VOWELL AND
MiCLEAN.

Duties upon , ERROR to the circuit court of the Unlied States,

goods import- for the district of Columbia, in an action of debt
ed, do not ac-

crue until their upon a bond given by the defendants in error to the
arrival at ihe United States, for duties on a cargo of sale from St.

e4""'
PO,,t
up- Ubes, which arrived and came to anchor within the
Theofduty
on salt,
uhich
collection district of Alexandria, sixteen mile; below
Deceased
with the the towfn ikodport of Alexandria, on the
2d off-e
th 23d
sist of'December, i0so, was cember, 1807, but did not arrive- at, the port of
nbt ohargeable Alexandria until thefrst of 'J-anuar , 1808.
upon a cargo
thich arrived

xvithin the cot-' The collector of Alexandria refused to permit the
beforetha-day, cargo to be' landed until the duties were secured,
ar- Vowell contended that the salt was not subject to,
but
didthe
notport
rjV__at
duty*
untl
entry
of
the lst of Ja"
The fats being ipecially pleaded, and admitted
nuary, 1308.
in-the replication, t6 which there was a general demurrer, the .only question *as, whetmer, as the duty
upon salt ceased wvith the 31st of,:December, 1807,
this cargo, which arrived within the district, but nbt

-lection district

.5 .

FEBRWART, 1o,
at the port of Alexaudria before the fat of January,

Tx I. S,-

1808, was liable to duty;

V.
VOWELL
.

The court below was-of opinion that it was not,
and rendered judgmenm for the defendants, upon'the
femurrer. t.
The United States brought their writ of error,
zones, for the United States.
The duty attached when the salt was imported into
the district, and, perhaps, when brought into the
United States.
By the'act of the 1oth of August, 1796, vol. 1pps.
248. a duty of 12 cents a bushel is laid. upon salt
which, after the 3Ist of December then next, should
be "br bught into the UnitedStates, from any foreign
port orplace." So by the actof the 8th .uly, 1797,
vol. 4. p. 35. an Idditional duty of 8 cents is laid.
upon all salt importid inio the United. States. By
the act of Varch 3, 1807, vol. 8. p. 290. it is enacted,
"that from and after the 31st day of December next,
so mich of any act as lays a-duty upon imported
talt, be and the same is hereby repealed; and from
and after The day lqst aforesaid, salt shall he imported into the United States free of duty: Proviled that for the recovery and receiPt of such dutie%
as ,phall have accrued, and on the days aforesaid respectively remain outstanding, and for the recovery
and distribution of fines,. penalties and forfeitures,
and. the remission thereof, which shall have been incurred before and on the said days respectively, -the
provisions of the aforesaid act shall remain in full
force ana virtue,"
The laws of the United States take a distinctior
between mpoit ng and entering, between a port and
a place. Pol 4. ?. 317. § 23. and 24. Goods may be
imported Vefoie they are enter~d or delivered. So"
if goods are brought in and destined to be delivered
in different districts or ports, they are to be in ertedVOLY
V

370r

SUPREME COURT VJ. S.

-rIL u.S. in the manifest in successive order, and the law
VOWELL.

speaks of them as imported. The forfeiture for
want of a manifest does not accrue at the time of
entry, 'but at the time of importng or bringing in.
So if goods are brought into the United States, to
be exported again td foreign ports, the law speaks
of them as imported, (vol. 4. p. 331,. 332. § 32.) although they are not intended to be landed.
In vo44. p. 327. § 30. is the following expression:
"at any .port of the United States established by
'law, or .within any harbour, inlet or creek thereof;"
which shows that a port established by law, is coextehsive with a collection districtC. Lee, contra.
Until the vessel arrives at the port of entry,
neither the duties on the goods, nor on the tonnage,
accrue. Yet they both accrue at the same time.
The question is, what is the fiscal meaning of the
word imported.
The first collection law, which was passed on the
4th of July, 1789, (Ghilds edit. Laws, vol. I.p. 25.)
has the same expression, imported into the United
States. Yet it "afterwards speaks of ithe time of importation, where it evidently means the time when
a permit is applied for at the proper office. Some
rule is necessary by which to fix the time of importation ; it ought not to depend upon the question at
what time the vessel arrived within the jurisdiction
of the United States. The same act, when speaking
of the qd valorem duties, refers to the timie andplace.
of i mpbrtation, for the purpos6 of ascertaining the
value.
•If goods should be lost after- arrival within the
collection district, but before they reached the port
of entry, no-dtities, would accrue upon them. So -if
they are damaged, the value is to be ascertained not

FEBRUARY, 191o.

371

at their arrival within the district, -but'at the port df Tim V.U.S.
Vow-LL.
entry.

Thesecond collection law, vol. 1. o.248. (FPlweil's
edition,) does not repeal the first, except-so far- as it
is repugnant thereto, but is ekplainedtby it.
The duty on tonnage does not accrue until, the
arrival at the port of entry.
In the act of May 2, 1792, vbl. 2. P. 68. the duties therein mentioned are' to be "laid, levied and,
collected upofi the"said articles at their importation
into the UnitedStatee."1
I1he acts of congress take a-clear, distinction between a 4istrict and a 'port. A district may contain
severalports. Ifol. 1.p. 162.
The -case ot a vessel'detained by ice, is the only
case in which an entry of a vessel.withir the, district
can be.made before her arrival at the port of entry.
By the collection act, in vol. 1. p. 175. the district of. Alexandria is created, and a collector is to
reside at .Alexandria, which is made the sole port of
entry; "and the authority of the officers of the said
district shall extend over all the waters, shores, bays,
harbours and inlets, on the south side of the river
Potomack from the last-mentioned cockpit.point to
the hightst fide water of the said river."
If district meantport, a vessel must enterwithin
48 hours after. arrival within the district, or the
vessel and cargo -willbe liable to forfeitur&.
Six months' credit is given for duties from the
time of importation., The uniform -construction of
the treasury has been that this six months begins
from the timeof entry' and permit. In this very
case the bond is dated on the 2d of January, 1808,
the date'of the, permit.

s72
TuE U. S.

VOWELL.
yz

SUPREME COURT.

S.

In all cases too where additional duties have leen
imposed, the construction of the treasury has awayc
been, that the additional dutieo are to be paid if the'

vessel arrived at.theport after the day fixed by law,"
although she arrived withiu the districtbefore that
day.
-March 15.
MARSH, L, Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the
court to the following effect:

The distinction taken by the counsel for the defendants in error, between a- distict and a port of
entry, is correct. The duties did not accrue in the
fiscal sense-of the term, uritil the vessel arrived at
the port of entry. If the question had been doubt"ful, the court would have respected the uniform con.
struction which it is understood has been given by
the treasury department of the United States upon
similar questions. It is understood that in case of
an increase of duty, the United States have always
demanded and received 'the additional duty if. the
goods have not arrived at the port of.entry before
the tim-e fixed for the commencement of such additional duty, although the vessel may have arrived
within the collection' district before that time, The
same rule of construction is to be' observed when
there is a diminution of duty.
Judgment affirmed.

SLOOP SALLY v. THE UNITED STATES.

An appeal

THIS was an appeal from the sentencb of the

the disfrom
of district
trier court

court'for the district of _Maine, condemning

the 'district of the sloop Sally and cargo for violation of the revenue
Baine, in a laws of the Unmte States. The appeal was directly
ralty jurisdo, to thi* court.

case of ad i

