FEBRUARY, 1809.

187

the act, since, without resorting to it, this court is
of bpiiion that there is no error in the.judgment of
the circuit courit. It is afrmed, witkh casts.

Kmpz'ls

V.
KENX3DY.

THE MARINE INSURANCE COMPANY OF
ALEXANDRIA v. JAMES YOUNG.

court
Thebound
of is not
court of .the district
ERROR to the. circuitto
.
. ..
Columbia, sitting at Alexandria, in an ction of ano
covenant, brought by the defendant in error upon a nion to the a-

a. to the
policy of insurance under'the corporate seal of the ry
meanng, or
construction,
error.
in
plaintiffs
of a written
deposition tea&
The point in issue, in the"court below, was, whe- in evidence in
ther the insured, on the 11th of December, 1800, theIt cause.
is no
when he wrote his order for insurance, had notice ground of rez
that the
court below
of a storm which happened at Jamaica, on the 2d vers
re.
fused a new
of November, 1800.

trial beenwhich
h~td
mo.

Part of the evidence offered to the jury was hed for o- the
the deposition of David Young, a witness examined ground that
"verdict
the contra
ry
on behalf of the plaintiffs in error. Upon his was
cross-examination by the defendant in error, at to the tn.
the time of the taking of the deposition; he was dence.
asked this question, viz. " On what day in December did you inform the plaintiff that there had
been a gale of wind in Jamaica ?" To which it was
stated in the deposition that he answered, "1that
on the 13th of December, 1800, he had informed
the plaintiff (below) that there had been a strong
northern in Jamaica; the i cumstance which induced him to mention this, was in consequence of
a very heavy gale having happened the day before,
and the brig Mary, being then in Hampton Roads,
which produced this remark, that he had a b6ring
voyage out, being compelled to throw over his
guns, and that the aforesaid northern had happened when he was in St. Anne's."
After the jury had retired tp consider of. their

188

SUPREME COURT U. S.

V.A&. I. Go. verdict, they sent a written paper to me judges, requesting to he instructed 'by the court, whether the
vYOUuG.
above answer of David'Young would admit of any
other reaso.nable or lgal construction, than that the
13th of December, 1800, was theflrst. information
given by him to the plaintiff below of the storm
of the 27d of-November,
But. the court refused to give any opinion to the
jury upon the construction of the answer of David
You.ng, unless with the as~ent of both parties;
and the counsel for the plaintiffs in error refused
-to assent, and took a bill of exceptions to the re-fusal 'of the court to instruct the jury, without
the consent of both parties.
The jury found a verdict for the defendant in
error; and before judgment, the plaintiffs in error
moved the. cburt ir a new trial, upon the ground
that the verdict-was contrary to evidence.
The court having refused to grant a new trial,
the counsel for the plaintiffs in error tendered a
bill of exceptions, containing what, they supposed
to be a correct statement of all the evidence offered
-on the trial, consisting of depositions, and other papers, together with viva voce testimony, the substance of which, they stated they had taken from
their notes. But the court refused td seal the bill
of exceptions, unless the counsel for the plaintiff
below would agree to a statement of the evidence,
the court not being satisfied that the bill of exceptions stated all the evidence offered at 'the trial.
To this refusal of the court to' seal the bill of exceptions, the counsel for the plaintiffs in error tendered another bill of exceptions, which the judges
sealed,
C. Lee and .E. 7. Lee, for the plaintiffs in error,
contended,
1. That-the court was bound to give an opjihioii
to the jury, upon the meaning of the' witmess's
ans*er, and ought. to have instructed the jury

FEBRUARY, 180.1

189

that the answer did not necessarily import that MAT. IN. Co.
the 13th of December, 1800, was theftrst tine that YOV.
the witness mentioned to the defendant in error
the storm of the, 2d of November; and that if he
had given him the information before that day,
his answer was so vague that he could ilot have
been convicted of perjury.
2. That the court below ought to have signed
the bill of exceptions to their refusal to grant a
new trial.
3. That the court ought to have granted a new
trial, because the verdict was contrary to evidence;
and,
4. That this court, if they believe the evideirte
is substantially stated in the rejected bill of exceptions, ought to order a new trial.
To support these points, they' cited Co. Litt. 226. b.
295. b. 1535. b. H:arg.note. I Wash. 389. 2 Mash.
275. 9 Go. 12. b. 13. a. 3 Cranch, 298. Z N. 2.
Term R2ep. 49. 2 N. 2. Term Rep. 330. Bac. Abr.
269. Ben. & Mlunf. Rep. 386. 1 Wash. 79.- 1
Cranch, 110. 2 Granch, 126. Laws U. S. vol. 1.
p. 60. ยง 17. s B!. Com. 375.
.Swann, contra.
A deposition is merely parol testimony, and the
jury is the proper tribunal to judge of the meaning
of a witnesIf the witness was not sufficiently explicit% the
counsel for the plaintiffs in error, who were present
at the examination, ought to have made the witness
explain hinfself mdre fully. 2 Term Rep. 760.
Lloyd v. ffaund.The refusal to grant a new trial, upon the ground
that the verdict wvas against evidence, is not error.
A motion for a new trial on that ground is in the

SUPREME COURT U. S.
YAj.

V.

,luo.
nature of a writ of error cbram vobis for error i
fact.

C. Lee and E. 7. Lee, in reply.
In the case of Lloyd v. Maund, the court was
not called upon to say what was the construction of
the letter.
This court is a substitute for the court of appeals
of Virginia, as to the cases from Alexandria, and
ought to decide as that court would decide in Virginia. By the practice of that state, it is error to
refuse a new trial, if a new trial ought to have
been granted. The refusal is a part of the proceedings, and appears upon the record.
In the case of Clarke v. Russel, 3 Dal. 415. the
court undertook to construe and exp6und a letter.
LIVINGSTON, J.
CAn this court reverse for
error in fact? Suppose we should be of opinion
that 'the court -below ought to have granted a new
-trial, is it not an error'infact P

I have another doubt. Whether it be the ground
of a :writ of error, if a judge gives or refuses to
%ivean opinion on matter of fact.
A written.contract, a bond, note, &c. whatever is
the act of the party, is a subject for the construction
of-the court; but this is not the act of the party,
but a mere deposition.
If the court can give the construction of depositions, they may as well try the whole cause when
all the e'idence consists of depositions.
Ftbruary 28.
Cus-fRiN,
As follows:

J. delivered the olpiniou of the court

This court is of opinr*on that thd inferior court

FEBRUARY,

18o9.

191

was not bound to give a construction of the an- MA.t.iCo.

swer of Captain David Young to the second interthe
rogatory df the plaintiff below, is requested by
jury; and that it would be improper in this court
to determine whether the inferior court ought or
ought not to have granted the motion of the defend,
ants below for a new trial, upon the ground that
the verdict was contrary to evidence.

v

YoIyo;

The judgment below is to be affirmed with costs,

BODLEY AND OTHERS v. TAYLOR.

ERROR to the district court 6f the United In Kentuak\,
it is a good.
States, for the district of Kentucky, in a suit in chan- Sground
fequi.
cery

Thomas Bodley, James Hughes, Robert Poague

table. jurisdiction, that his
the
defendanit

obtained a pr-

arid Robert Campbell, citizens of Kentucky, brought or patent for
their bill in chancery
against
ohn Tayor,
Talo, a citizen
to which
thei bil in
hancry
aains Joh
ciize lad
te complainof Virginia, in the .tate court for the district of ant had the
right
Washington, from whence it was afterwards, by better
Yudrtestaconsent, removed into the federal court for the dis- tote respecting
and
'lands;
trict of Kentucky.
in exercising
that jurisdie-

court
The bill states that on the 17th of October, 178, 7ticn
will te
decide
in
conformitthe
followTibbs
made
and
John
Crutcher
Henry
the setwith principles
ing entry with, the county surveyor, "viz. " Henry tied
Crutcher and John i ibbs enters ten thousand acres e a court of
chancery.
of land on i treasury warrant No. 18,747. as tenants jEntries
or land

at a large black ash and in Kentucky;
in common; beginning
small buckeye marked thus (I T.) on the side of a musthave
reasohnabe that
trrat
buffalo-road leading from the lower blue licks a
north-cast course, and about seven miles north-east
by east from the said blue licks, a corner of an 'entry of twenty thousand acres made in the name
of John Tibbs, John Clarke, John Sharpe, David
Blanchard and Alexander M'Clain, running thence
with the said Tibbs & Co.'s line due east sixteen

reasonable h
would enable
a subsequent
the exercise
ofaduedegree
of judgment

and diligencet

to
locate
own lands

his
on

