5UPRENZ COURT U. S,

358
Moss

v.

if he" had traversed th. oncluslofi, it wotild have
been putting in issue to the jury matter of law.

RrD LE.

Judgment aqlrmed with costs.
C. Tee suggested that there was also an exception
to the refusal of the court to allow an.amended plea
to be filed, after the cpurt tad adjudged the pleas
bad.
But the Chief 7ustice said that the court had, in
ari early part of this term,40e decided that such refu'sal was no error for which the judgment could be
reversed.
See the case of J.anddlle and Jamesson v.
antef. 15.

ilson, at this term,

BRENT v. CHAPMAN.

Five years' adverse possessiou of a slave
in Virginia,
ag9od
tigives
tie
upon
whieh

-ERROR to the circuit court for* the district of

Columbia, sitting at Alexandria, in an action of tresb

pass brought by Chapman against Brent, marshal

of the district of Columbia, for taking in execition,
on aft. fa. against the estate of Robert Alexander,;
may
trespass
be maintained, deceased, a slave named Ben who was claimed by
Chapman as his property..
The jury found a verdict for the plaintiff, subject
to 'the opinion of the court 'upon a statement bf facts
agreed- by the p.rties, which was in substance as follows:
The slave was the property, and in possession of
the late Robert Alexander the e lder, at the time of
his death. His sons, Robert Alexander, and Walter
S. Alexander, were named excutors of his will, but
never qualified as such. On the 17th of December,
1803, Walter S. Alexander took out letters of administrationlirVth the will annexed.. No division was
I

FEBRUARY, 1809.

:359

ever made, by the order of aiy "court, of the personal estate'of the deceased among his represeitl-aives;.
but previous to August, 1800, a p rol division of the
slaves was made between Robert. Alexander the
younger, and his brother, Walter S." Alexanider, the
latter being' theh -under the age of twenty-one years.,
Robert Alexander' the ybunger being po-sessedof
the slave, and being tken upon an execattion for a
debt or debts due from himself in his .individual
cliaracter, in.August, 1800, took the oath of insolrency under the laws of Virginia, and: delivered up
to the sheriff of Fairfax countj, in that state, the
slave as a part of his piopefty included in'his sche,
dule. The sheriff sold him at public sale, and the
plaintifi,. knowing the slave -to belong to the estate of
the deceased Robert Alexander as aforesaid, became
the. purchaser for a valuable consideration, and took
possession of the slave, -and continued possessed ofhim under the sale anid purchase until ,July, 1806.
The plaintiff. in the -winter usually resided in. Maryland, and in the summer in Virginia, on his farm,
where he kept the slave, atid has never' resided in
the district.of C6lumbia.
Dunlop & Co. obtained judgment against Rofert
Alexander the younger, as executor 6f'his father Robert Alexander, arid, upon aflerifaciasissued iiort
thatjudgment, the marshal seized and tc'k the slave
as part of the estate of the testator Robert Alexander,
there being nq other property belonging to his estate'
in the county which could have been levied except
What Robert Alexander .the younger had sold and
disposed of for the purpose of'paying his own debti.
The agent of the creditors, Dunlop & Co.,'as well
as the- marshal, had noitice, prior to the sale, that the
plaintiff claimed the slave.
Upon this state of the case, the court below rendered judgment for the plaintiff according to the
verdict. And the 'defendant brought his writ of
.error.
C. Lee) -forthe plaintiff'in error, contended, that,

BRENT
C,.APMAI.

360
Bnzln"
CHAPMAN.

~

SUPREME- COURT U: S.

under the circunastances of this case, five years' possession did not.give a good title to Chapman. The
possession was not adverse, fo,' tlhere was no administration upon the estate of RobertAlexander, sen.
consequently no person legajlly competent-'to claini
the possession. 'Besides, Chapman' knew -that the
slave belonged to the estate of the testator.
This debt was a legal ien on the slave.
Robert Alexander, juno could. only. transfer his
right"to the sheriff of Fairfax. The goods of the
testator cannot be taken in execution for the debt of
the executor. 4' T.' R. 625. Farrv. Newman.' Chapman could therefore only purchase the right of Uober'f Akxander, jun. in the slave.
The parol partition was void for the infancy of
one of the partiep.. There was no executor qualified to assent to the legacy. By the-laiv of Virgitia, an executor cannot act until he has given 'bond.
1,Cranch, 259. Fenwich v. Sears. 3 Cranch, S19.
.Ramsay v. Dixon.
• It is very doubtful whether five years' posseasion
of a sl.ave in Virginia, is itself a good tide for a
plaintiff. It may protect the possessioA of a defendant; 'and that is the -only efect of the statute.
Swzann, contra.
Robert A1xander the younger did -not hold the
slave as executor of his father's will, but under the
legacy. •
It is immaterial whether Chapman did or did not
know that the .slave belbnged to the estate of the
testator. Five years' "possessiou-by Chapman was a
god title against all -the world.
In England tweiity yeart' possession is a good
bar in ejectment, and it is also a good positiXe, title
initself, upon which an ejectmEnt,may be maintained.

,FEBRUARY, 1S0.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. Can an executor distribute
BSZNT
-the estate before he has qualified and obtained let- C,1JU
ters testamentary ?
LIVrNGSTON, J. In England, an executor, before
probate, can do every thing but declare.

WASHINGTON, J. mentioned the case of Burnley
v. La.nbert, 1'Wash. 308. in which it was decided,,by
the court of appeals of Virginia, thate "after the
assent of the executor, the legal pr9perty is completely vested in the legatee, and cannot be devested by
the creditors."
March 13.
MARSHALL, .Ch.J. delivered the'opinion of the
tourt to thefollowing effect:

This court is of opinion that the possession of
Chapman was a bar to the seizure of-the slave by
the marshal, under.the execution stated in this case.
The. only objection of any weight was, that there was
no admiristration upon the estate of Robert Alexander, stn. and, consequently, that the possession of
Chapman was not -an adverse possession.
But there
and who did
tion between
wards refuse

was an executor competent'to assent,
assent, to the legacy, and to the partithe legatees, and who could not afterto execute the will.
Judgment affirmed.

AULD v. NOR VOOD.

,ERROR to the circuit court for the districtof Ifleowuer
Columbia. sitting at Alexandria, in an action of ofsvepemit her to re'detinue for a female slave namned Eliza' Upon the ia 1in the
Vol.

.

Z,

