SUPREME COURT U. S.
VZO fITT'
V.

PA'rc

.

VIOLETT v. PATTON.

'ro constitute

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of

acoiusideratiou Columbia, sitting at Alexandria, to reverse a judg-

it is not neces-

ment in an action of assumpsit, brought by Patton,
as endorsee of a promissory note, against Violett, the
protisor. 1i endorsor. The note was made by Brooke, payable,
is sufficient in 30 days, at the bank of Alexandria, to the order
that something
flows of Violett, and by him endorsed to Patton.
valuable
say thatahenert should aeerue to the

ftom the pro
andi
Inisee,
that the pro-

"The declaration had two counts.

The first was

t
mise is the ii- upon the endorsement, and stated the making of the
ducement to note by Brooke, for value received; the assignthetansaction.
blank endorsement upon a blhak

ment by endorsement to Patton, (but did not state
that the assignment was for value received,) by

means whereof, and of the statute of Virginia, Patwith inteut to ton *had a right to.demand and receive the money
from Brooke;
give a person from Brooke; t
he dtmaxid of payment
credit, is in ef-.
feet a letter of his refusal and insolvency at the time of demand;
credit. And if and notice thereof to Violett, whereby he became
a promiisory
note be after- liable, and in consideration thereof promised to
vwrds written pay, &c.
piece of paper

on the paper,
the endorsor

cannot object

The other count was for money had and received.

qureus.
frauate
that the agee-

The first was to the following opinions and in-

that the note
,was viritten afAt the trial of the general issue, the defendant
ter the endorsemet.
The English belbw took two bills of exceptions.
statute of
inent should ie structioks of the court to the jury, viz.
the
in writing;
ofVirstatute

uginia
reqoires
"I hat if the jury should be satified by the evionly the p'o- derice that the defendant endorsed 'the note with
mlkf to 'be In
intent to give a credit for the amount thereof to.
.riting,
resort
to 'Brooke with the plaintiff, and that the body of the
c-Before
at be h'ad
the endorsorof note was filled up by the plaintiff before it was
a promissory'
note in ViN,.
as the mnak~e

signed by" Brooke, and that the plaintiff, upon the
faith of the note so drawn and endorsed, gave credit

muft be sued, to Brooke to the amount thereof; the circumstance
if islvent; but

4

FEBRUARY, '1809.

'143

of such endorsement being made before thd.body of VIoLE5TT
the note "was filled up by the plaintiff and signed by PATTON."
Brooke, is no bar.to the plaintiff's recovery in this
action; although the jury shbuld be satisfied that no his insol Ccy
.other value was, received by the defendant 'for his reiders a suit
endorsement than the credit thus given. by the plam- unnecessary.
is a questioa
tiff to Brooke. And further, that the endorsement It tobe
left to
by. the defendant with the intent aforesaid, if proved, th jury vw asuitmiagainsta the
autliorized Brooke to make the note to the plaintiff ther
in the form and manner in which it appears upon the ker would have
face of it to ,be made; and that the circumstance produced" the.
that the bbdy of the note was in the haid-writing of '
the plaintiff, was. wholly immaterial to tho present
issUe.
The second bill of exceptions stited, that the defbndant prayed the court to instruct the jury that if
they should be satisfied by.the evidence that Brocke,
at the time the note became payable, or at any time
previous to the commencement of this action, had
.property sufficient to pay the debt claimed by the
plaintiff, and that both he and 'the plaintiff lived in
the town of' Alexandriaat the time the note became
due, ind that the 'plaintiff brought no suit against
Brooke to recover the amount of the note, but suffered him to leave the district .of Columbia, without
suing him: or if the jury should be satisfied that
the plaintiff and Brooke have, since -the note-became
due, both lived in the county of Fairfax, in Virginia,
and have continued to reside there until the bring.ing of the present suit, and that the plaiuitiff has not
brought suit against Brooke in Virginia, then the
defendant is not liable in this action... But the cou4
.refused to give those instructions as prayed.

E. Y. Lee, for the-plaintiff in erro .
1. The endorsement, being on a blank piece of
paper, and delivered with intent -to -give credit to
Brooke, but without an vexpress authority to him to
fill up the paper with a promissory note, did.not authorize him so to fill it up. ,But if Brooke was so
authorized, Patton was not. There -does' not ap-

144
VIOLTT
V.

PA rTo.V.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

pear to have been any communication between Patton and Violett upon the subject.
The cases bf Russel and Langstaffe, Doug. 514.
and Collins v. Emett, I H. la. 313. do not apply;
because in those cases" it appears that the body of
the note was filled up by the peison authorized, and
who was to use it for his benefit; and because the
principles of those cases are not drawn from the
common law, but from the custom of merchants,
which is not applicable to promissory notes in Virginia, which are there placed upon the same footing
as bonds, and subject only to the same common law
principles.
2. There was no consideration from Patton -to
Violett. The defendant in error must show a good
and valuable consideration. , Chitty, 9. 4 Modo 242.
.1 .Strange, 6Z~4. Buller, 274. 2 Bl, Com. 445. i
YFonb. By. 331,'32. 335, 336. 7 Term Rep. 350.
Rann v. Hughes.
A consideration which will support an assumnpsit
must be either a benefit to the defendant, or a prejudice to the . plaintiff; but here Violett received no
benefit, and Patton no prejudice. It does not appear that Patton gave a credit solely
in consequence of Violett's endorsement. On the
contrary, there was no cominunication between them,
so that there was no undertaking on the part.of Violett to Patton, except what the law implies from the
endorsement; and that implication is founded upon
a presumption that the endorsor received value, andcan be extended no farther than the value received,."
It. does not appear that Patton would not have
credited Brooke without Violett's endorsement.
3. The endorsement, being in blank, war not
a writing signed by him; and the undertaking being
to pay the debt of another, is 'void by the statute of
frauds of Virginia.

PEBRUARY, 180g.

145

At aommon law the holder.of. the paper had no
right to fill up the endorsement so as to make it a
promise in writing. Such a right in mercantile cases
is founded only on the custom of merchants. The
undertaking in writing must set out the precise
terms of the promise, as well as the cohsideration&
.Prec. Ch 560. Strange, 426. 1 Atk. 13. '5 East,
10. Wain v. Warlters. Brooke was clearly liable
for this debt. -And it is laid down as a principle,
that if he for whose us.e the goods are furnished be
liable at all, the promise of a third person must be in
'writing, or it is void. Roberts, 209. But if this is
a parpl promise, it must be made to appear that the
credit was given to Violett alone. 1 H. Bla. 120. 2
Term Rep. 80.
4. Violett is not liable, if Brooke, at the time the
note became due, and at the time the suit was brought,
had property sufficient to pay the amount of 'the note,
and Patton did not at any time bring suit 'against
Brooke.
In Machie v. Davis, 2 Wash. 219. it 'is decidedthat the holder of a bond must use due diligence for'
the recovery of the money. In Lee v. Love, 1 Call,
497. the assignee of a note must s6ue the maker before he can resort to the endorsor.
The case of Fenwick v. Barkesdale; decided-in
the court of appeals in Virginia, in October, 1803,
affirms the general doctrine laid down in iliachie v.
Davis, and shows that a suit is necessary, and is the.
only kind of diligence which is meant.
It also proves that it is not sufficient to show that
the maker of.the note was not able to pay all hin
debts; but the plaintiff must go further and. show
that he was not able -to pay the particulardebt due
to him by the note.
The oath which is taken under the ijsolvent law.
of Virginia, shows what is meant by the term insolVol. V.

T

VIOLETT
"V.
PATTON.

146
V"OLETT
PATTON.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

vent. -le must swea' that he.is not worth 30 dollars,
exclusive of his wearing apparel."
The insolvency of the drawee of a bill is no excuse for neglect to give notice of .its dishonour.
Cliitty, 88. 'Doug. 497. 515.
Swann, contra.
The-case of Russel and Lauzgstaffe, Doug.-514.L
clear as to the authority given by an endorsement on
a blank piece of paper.
It is a letter of credit; The defendant has given
the bearer of it authority to use it, and cannot deny
the authority when it is executed. This is a mercantile transaction depending upon good. faith, in
which the want' of consideration can never be alleged. 3 Burr. 1663. Pillans & Rose v. Van .MAerop &.Hopkzns. It is'a promise in writing, which
is sufficient to take it out of the Virginia staute of
frauds. The defendant cannot be permitted to say
that the endorsement was blank, and the plaintiff
had no authority to fill it up, unless he can show
that the confidence he placed in Brooke and the
plaintiff has been abused.
If the maker of a note. be insolvent when the
note becomes due, it is not necessary that the holdbr
should bring suit against him. Brooke might have
had property.enough to pay.this note, and yet. be"
insolvent:. And it does not follow because he might
have paid this note, that he -would have pffid it if
suit had been brought, or that he could have been
compelled to pay it.
Youngs, in reply.
No action can be sustained upon the endorsement of the note. The act of assembly respecting
promissory notes giyes no action against the endor-.
sor. It only gives the assignee a right to recover
in his own name against the iaker. Theaction

FEBRUARY, 1809.

147

against the endorsor is only at common law, upon
the ground that the consideration paid for the note
has failed. The legislature of Virginia did not
mean to extend-the liability of the endorsor farther
*than that. They had the statute of ,nne before
them, but they did not choose to adopt it'; they preferred to place notes in the class with bonds rather
than with bills of exchange. The endorsor is liable
only upon the principle of money had and received
to the plaintiff's use. 1 Cranch, 298. Zllandeville v,
Riddle. 2 Wtash. 219. 221. Mackie v. Davis. 2
Wash. 248. Norton v. Rose. If there be no consideration, if the defendant has never received value
for the note, he is not liable upon any of the grounds
stated in thbse cases. Between immediate parties
the want of consideration is always a good defence,
even in England. Kyd, 276In An action against a surety for morey had and
received. you cannot recover if the money were received by the principal, although the surety join in
giving a receipt for it. 2 Term ReP. 366. Straton v.
Rastall;
In a written agreement to pay the debt of another, the consideration must be stated as well as
the promise. 5 East, 10. Wain v. Warilters.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. Do you mean to state that
if A. writes a letter to B. stating, that if B. will
let C. have goods, A. will pak for them if C. does
not, A. would not be. bound?
7oungs. Probably in that case it would be considered that the letter did state the consideration.
in the case of Clark v. Russel, 3 Dal. 415. it
was decided by this court, that the whole agreement.
must be in writing, and that nothing oal be supplied by parol. It must be a comilete agreement,
or it will not support an action at law. And upon
the count for money had and received, you must
prove a consideration in money actually received by

VZoLErTT

SUPREME COURT U. S.
VXOLT'r

\for

v,

the defendant, and can then recover only the aniount
of that consideration... Suppose a note endorsed
accommodation at the bank, and the bank r~fuse
to discount it. If the eidorsee puts it in circuIladi cain the holder recover upon it ggainst the endorsor?
If the promise be in writing, there must still be
a consia ration, and you can- *recover only to the
extent of that consideration. 7 TerraRep. 350. Rann
v. Hughes.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. The question seems to be
whether the declaration must not state the consideration .

J.

WASHIYGTON,

Inu'achie v. Dht ir there was

a special consideration.
LIVINGSTON, J. The case of a.promissory note
is the only case where you need.not state a consideration in ybur declaration.

Ch. J,

MIARSHALL,

My impression is very

strong that in Virginia there has been a genferal
practice to consider an endorsor as liable upon an
implied promise; and to declare upon it without
averring a consideration.
Youngs. If there must be a consideration to support the assumapsit,it must be averred in the declaration. Siflms v. Cooh, 2 Call. Winston v.
Francisco, 2 Wash- 187. Taliaferro v. Robb, 2
Call, 2 8.
February23.
MARSHALL,

Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the

court as follows:
This case comes on upon two exceptions; -one to
the opinion of thje circuit court given' to the jury,
and the other to the retusal of that court to give an

FEBRUARY, 1809.

149

opinion which *as prayedby-• the counsel for the defendant below.
The declaration contains two counts. One upon
the endorsement of a promissory note, and the other
for money had and received to the plaintiff's- use.
The question. arising on-the first bill of exceptions
is, whether the court erred in directing the jury respecting the liability of the defendant below, on the
endorsement which was. the foundatio of the action..
'The endorsement was made before. me note was
written; andJrappeared that the body -of the note
was filled up by Patton. The opinion of the court
was, that, if the jury sfiould be satisfied, from the
testimony, that Violett endorsed this .paper for the
purpose of giving Brooke a credit with Patton, and
that, upon the faith of the note so'drawn and endorsed, Patton did credit Brooke" to the amount thereof, the circumstances, that the note was made subsequent to the endorsement, without any consideration from Brooke to Violett, and was filled up by
the plaintiff, did not bar the action;, and, further,
that the said Brooke was to be considered as au-'
thorized by .the said Violett to make the note to
Patton.
This opinion is said to be erroneous; because,
1. The endorsenent was' made without con.4aeration.
2. It was made on a blank paper.
3. There was no memorandua- of the agree.
.nent in writing.
In support of the first point, the counse zor the
plaintiff in error have cited several cases, intending
to prove that an endorsement made without consideration, though it transfers the paper to the endorsee, creates no liability in the endorsor'; .and that

VIOLET'i
V.

PATTox.

150
VIOLETT

v.

PATTO..

SUPREME COURT U. S.

a promise in writing, made without consideration, is
void.
So far as respects the. immediate parties having
knowledge of the fact, and so far as relates to an endorsement under the statute of Virginia, this is correct; but the real question in the cause is, does' the
testimony prove a sufficient consideration for the
promise created by the endorsement? This is not
intended to comprehend any writing on- which an
action of debt is given.
To constitute a consideration it is not absolutely
necessary that a benefit should accrue to the person
making the promise. It is sufficient that something
valuable flows from the person to whom it is madej
and that -the promise is the indqctment to the
transaction.
In the common case df a letter of
credit givenby A. to B., the person who, on the
faith of that letter, trusts B., is admitted to have his
remedy against A., although no benefit accrued to
A as the consideration of his promise.
So in the
present case, Patton trusted Brooke on the credit of
Violett's iame, and Violett wrote his name for the
purpose of giving Brooke that credit with Patton.
Itwas, *T effect, and in intention, a letter of credit.
The case shows that this was both the intention and
the effect of Violett's .giving his name to Brooke.
In conscience, and in substance, then, it is a letter of
credit, upon which the money, it was intended to
secure, was advanced; and although in point of
form the transaction takes the sbape, and was intended to take the shape, of an endorsement, yet, so
far as respects .consideration, the endorsement has
the full operation of an undertaking in the forin of
-a*letter of credit.
It is common in Virginia for two persons to join
in a promissory, note, the one being the principal and
the other the security. Although the whole benefit
is-received by the principal, this contract has never
been considered as a nudurn pactum with regard to
the security. So far as resp'ects consideration, no
5

FEBRUARY, 1809.

dlfference is perceived in the cases.

151
Violett has VZOLET

signed his name upon this paper, for the purpose of
giving Brooke a credit with Patton, and his signature has obtained that credit. The consideration
is. precisely the same, whether his name be on the
back or the face of the paper.
2. The second objection is, that the endorsement
preceded the making of the note.
This objection certainly comes 'with a very bad
gace from the mouth of Violett.. Hi end6rsed the
paper with the intent that the promissory note should.
be written -on the other side; and that he should be
considered as the endorsor of that note. It was the
shape he intended to give the transaction; and he is
now concluded from saying or proving that it was
not filled -up when he endorsed it. It would be to-pr6tect himself frorn the effect of his promise, by
alleging a fraudulent combination between himself
and another to obtain money for that other from a'
third person. The case of. Russel and Langstare,
reported in Dougglass, is conclusive on this point.
3. The third objection is, that there was no
memorandum of the agreement in Writing.
The' argument on this ' point is founded on the
idea that the statute of frauds in Virginia is copied
literally from the statute of Chtrles 11. This is
not the fact. The first section of the act of Virginia
differs froni the 4th sec. of the stat.'of Charles fI.
in ode essential respect. The statute of England
enacts that no action shall be brought, in the cases
specified,, "unless the agreement on vhicf -sUch ac-'
tion shall be brought, or some -memorandum or.note,
thereof shall be in writing," &c. The Virginia act
enacts that no action shall be brought in the specified cases, " unless the pronzse or agreement ori
which such action shall be brought, or sbme memoranduim 6i note thereof shall be in writing," &c.
The reasoning of the judges, in the caies in which
.they have decided that the consideration ought to be

P, TOS.

152
V!OLITT

v.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

in writing, turns upon the word agreement, of.which
the consideration forms an integral part. This readoes not apply to. the act of Virginia, in
which the word "1promise".i3 introduced.

Ssoning

It was thought proper to notice this difference
between the act of larliament, and the act of Virginia, although the opinion of the court is'not deQ
termined by it. In this 'case the assignment does
express a consideration.
It is made for value received.
It is unnecessary to decide in this case, whether
the declaration" ought to have alleged that the enWith that
dorsement was made on consideration.
question the jury had no concern, and the direction
of the court was not affected by it. There being
no demurrer, it could only'occur in arrest, of juagment. But on a motion in arrest of judgment, the
defendant below could not have 'availed himself
of this error, if it be one, because there are two
couints in the declaration, one of which is unquestionably good, and the court cannot perceive on
which the verdict was rendered. By th'e act of.
jeofails in Virginia, there is no error if any one.
count will. support the judgment.
The second exception is to the refusal of the circuit court to give the opinion, -prayed for,.by the
counsel for the defendant below.
When the error alleged is, not that the court has
misdirected the jury, but that the court has refusedto give a particular opinion, the opinion demanded
must be so perfectly stated, that it becomes the duty
of the court to give it as stated.
In this case; the opinion required by the counsel
eonsists of two parts. The first is to instruct the
jury "that if they shall be* satisfied, from the evidence, that Richard Brooke, the maker of the note
in this case, had, at the time the' note became due,
or at any time previous.to the commenjenzent of this
suit against the defendant, property sufficient to pay

VEBRUARY, 18o9.-

iss

the debt udimed," &c. and the plaintiff brought no Vouz.x
PAT.
suit, then this action is. not maintainabl.
This court conceivbs, that the circuit. court ought
Had- Richard
nbt to have given this opinion.
Brooke possessed property before the making of thle
note, and not afterwards, the opinion, in the terms in
which it was required, would have been a direction
to find their verdict for.the defendant. So'if Richard
Brooke had been in possession of property for -a
single day, and had the next day become' insolvent,
the court was asked to say that, i such a case, the.
endorsor could only be made liable by suit against
the maker. Such a direction, in the opinion of this
court. would have been improper.
The second branch of the opinion the circuit court
was required to give, is in these words: " Or if
the jury shall be satisfied that the said plaintiff and
the said Brooke have, since the said note became
due, both lived inthe county of Fairfax, in Virginia,
and have -continued to reside in the county of Fairfag-until the beginning of the present. suit, and the
plaintiff hath n9t brought suit against the said
Brooke in Virginia, then the defendant is not liablt
in this action."
If the plaintiff had. sued Brooke elsewhere than
in Virginia, or if Brooke had become insolvent previous to the making of the note, and had continued
to be.so, the opiniottof.the court, if given as prayed,
ivould have been, that, still, a suit against the maker
of the note was necessary to give a right of action
against the endorsor
This is not understood to be the law of Virginia.
It is understood to be the law, that the maker of the
note must be sued, if he is solvent, but his insolvency uispensei with the necessity of suing him. It
-is not known that any decision of the state courts
requires that this iasolvency should be proved ,by
taking the oath of an insolvent debtor, nor is it believed that this is the only -admissible testimony of
VoL V.

11

SUPREMB .COURT V. S.
VtOiZETT

pV,,,

the fact of insolvency. Other testimony may be
admitted. It would therefore have been proper to
leave it to the jury to determine whether it was, at
any tiine, in the power of the plaintiff to have made
the.money due on this note, or any part of it, from
the maker by suit; and their verdict ought to have
been regulated by the testimony in this respect.
This-opihion was not-required.
This . coqrt is of opinion that there is no error,
and that thejudment is to be ajirmed with costs.

PIERCE v. TURNER.

ERROR 'to the circuit court of the district of
The net of as.
sembly of Vir- Columbia, sittig at Alkxandria, in an action of debt
gini" e hih brought by Pierce against Rebecca Turner, charging
corded deeds her'as executrix in her own wrong of her late husVoid as to cre. band, Charles Turner, deceased,
difore, ond subecjquent purchusers, means
ereditolrs
of,
and subsequent

pnrehaers
frorn,thiegymtA marringe

of never excrttrix, the jury
Upon the issue
sueectiheur
iound a special verdict, stating in substance the following case

On the14th of Feruary, 1798, the defendant, by

nettlement the the uame of Rebecca Kenner, being a fethe sole,

wife's "nd hud and seised and possessed, in her own right, of cershives to tritlsts, by a dcI, tain land and slaves, conveye.d the same by deed, in
to which the consideration of an intended marriage between herhusband was a self and Charles Turner, to trustees, to be held in
party,althou'gh
Snt recorded, trust for the use of herself' until the marriage
protects the should be solemnized, And from and aifter the so1he eceditors lemnization thereof to the, use of herself and the
of the hus. said Charles Turner, and the longest liver of them,
ancL from"and' after their- deaths, to the use of her
band.
heirs, The deed purports to be an indenture tripar-.
tite, in-which Charles TUrneir is nathed as the sdcond party, and as such he duly executes the deed;

