PEBRUARY, 1809.

351
Moss

MOSS

'.'RIDDLE

k Co.

V.
RiDDLE-

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of A bond can.Colunibia, in an action of debt upon the joint bond of not
red beto.deliveone
Welsh and. Moss for the payment of money.
of the obligees.
as Fraud
all escrow.
-coa.
.Welsh, who was the principal debtor, not being sats in

-ten-

and isthata.
found in, and not being an inhabitant of, the district fion;
intention

of Columbia, the suit abated as to him.
The defendant Moss, in his first plea, afterprotiff, dated 25th of June, 1800 The plaintiff also offered evidence, that
the lands are truly located on the plats as directed by the plainted.
Th defendant offered evidence that the heirs of Brown were stilt
living in Maryland; that Scarth's heirs are still living in England,
4nd that he and his hi!irs were alwa's British subjects, and always resided in England
The court-had directed the jury that if the heirs of Searth were
living in England at the passage of the acts of October session, 1780,-c.
45 c. 49. and c. 51. the warrant of eseheat which issued to the plaintiff, issued without authority of law, but that a patent which issued on
snch-a warrant came within the provision 6f the act of .AXovember ses"
rdon, 1781, c. 20 'e. 8. wherdupon the defendant offeed in evidence
the valuation of the land 'so escheated by the plaintiff, and the sum
by him paid into the treasury for the said-lands 6n the -24ths of December, 1799, and that the sum so paid, was only two thirds bf the
appraised value of the said lands so e.cheated, and prayed the dircetion of the court, that if thejury shonldbe of opinion that the plaiitiff,
had paid! only two thirds of the appraised value, he could not entitle
himself to the benefit of the warranty contained in the act of .Moveinber, 1781, c. 20). s. 8 "But the court were of opinion, that if the
jury should find the facts as stated, the said patent was good, valid and
overative in law io pass the said land to the said Edward Norwood and.
Ilis heirs, and so directed the juryr notwithstanding the said Edward
Norwood hallnot plaid more than two thiirds of the appraised value of
Uhe said lail(. Tihe court considering the case of the said Edward
Norwood as coming fully within the provision of the 8th sect of the
iet of N'ovemnber seesio,, 1781, c. '20. and that the two thirds of the
value of the said land was as much as the said Edward Norwood was
liable to pay; to which last opinion, and to so much of the former
opiniin as declares time said patent to come Uithin the provisions of the
act of .Abvenibcr, 1781, c. 0. § 8 the defendant excepted."
The 3d bill of excetions, in eddition to the foregoing evidence,
stated, that the defendant offered evidence of a judgment of condetonation (if these lauds upon an attachment from the provincial court in
1732, lora debt of971 9s. Od. sterling, due'from Scarth to one Littleton Waters. Phe plaintiff oflered in evidence duplicate writs of at.

tachment to other counties issued by Waters for the suime debt,-upon.
which sundry qums of ntioly were attached and comdemned in the
hands of garsishees, anoeutitig altogether to -26. So. 4d. sterling.

fact

which

must be aver.

apleaof
uredin

352
Moss

R,
v',,
RDDg

SUPREME COURTU. S.

testing tha't he did not deliver to any person, tinconditioni.tnginth
y, -s his act and.deed, th..
the writing in the
declaratin mentioned,- averfed that he signed 9ind
To show th', tthe lands attached by Waters was the. 886 acres located on,the plats as being in the possession of' the Baltimore company,
the plaintiffietad in evidence the lord proprietor's old rdnt-rdll,.stating
870 acres to Ue in possessiop of-Rawlins, and T 0 in the potsatiion of
"John. Baker. And the last rent-roll stating49 acres to be in possession
of Searth, and 386 in the'possessionof Charles Carroll & Co.; and the
lord proprietor'e ilebt-book for the yeqr 1754, (being the oldest book of
that kind remaining,) which charges the Baltimore company with the
quit-rents of 386 acreg and no more, ard Scarth with 414 ; 'which charges were continued annually until the revolution And the defendant
thereupon prayed the opinion of the court, that by virtue of the said
judgment and attachntent and condefonation by him given in evidence,
a legal estate was vested in tjse said Littleton Waters in the V~id tract
of land called lBroxin's Adventure. But the court were of opinion, and
so directed the jury, that the said Littleton Waters did not acquire a
legal estate in the said land by virtue of the saidjudgment, attachment
and condimnation.
The 4th bill of, exceptions stated the same facts, and further that
the'defendant rind the ht of assembly passed at Novmes ber session,
1767, c. 119. and prayed the opinion of the cour4tsat by virtue of that
act the right of the state was so fir vested'in the -persons possessing
the land called Brown's Adventurerunder the condemnatioiaif~resaid,
that the plaintiff could not in virtue of his said warrant, certificate and
patent haveany rithtor title to the Wid land ; or, if any, then no more
than the proportion or compensation to which a discoverer of confiscated propertyis entitled. But the court were of opinion that the
right of the plaintiff to Brown's Adventure attached upon his obtaining
the var,rant of escheat, and- that his right was saved and protected by
'he proviso in the 2d lectidn of thesaid act of Nqvember, 1797, c. 119.
And that the grant transferred to him the interest The state had in the
land called "( 'Th Discve-" from the time of his obtention of his said
warrant of escheat.
The 54th bill of exceptions states the same fadts, whereupon the
defendAut prayed the opinion of the court; and their direction to the
jury, that if the )varrant of escheat which issued in this case, issued
without'authority of law,. -then the warranty contained in the act of
November, 1781, o. 20. § 8 did not operate to give title to the plaitiw,
aid that there catt be no relation to a warrant which issues withoui
authority of law, or to a certificate made in pursuance of suchwarrant.
But the court were of opinion, that the act of 1781, c. 20. § 8. did
secure to the plaintiff" the said land so by him escheateil on his paying
two-thirds of the value of the saicLland, being what the plaintiff was
liable to pay for the same as confiscated British property; and that
the gratt obtained by the plaintiff (lidoperate to pass tho land to him
by relation from the date of the said warrant.
The 6th bill of' exceptions also stated the same facts, and that the
defendant thereupon praved the court to direct the jury that if the
said ti'act of land called Brawn's Adventure belonged to a British subJect at the time of passing the act for confiscating British property in
the state of Maryland, anti if no actual possession had been taken
thereof by the. said state or itS agents, and no sale or dispnsitoo, mqdu

FEBRUARY,: 1809.

.353

sealed the same, and delivered it to "oseph Riddle,
on ofthe plaintifs, as an escroW, to' be his .ct aid"
deed, on condition that the same should afterward5
thereof by the state to iny person at a~y time before the treaty between the United States and Great Britain dated the 19th of Movember,
1794, took effect, the plaintiff could make no title.thereto by his said
warrant, certificate and pateit.
But the court refused to give that direction to thd jury, being of
opinion, that the state.of Maryland, by "their commissioners, was in
possessior of all British property within the limits of the siid state,
under and by virtu6 f the act of confiscation, Octebpr,-1780, c. 45.
ind the act of the same session, a. 49. to 4ppoint commissioners &o.
And that the possession 6f the said land was in the state of Maland
qt the time the plaintiff obtained his escheat warrant; and that nb
British subject could hold land in the state of Maryland-o the 19th ofNovember, 1794, the time when the tfeaty was entered into betwcpn
the United States and Great Britain.
The 7th bill of excqptiois, in .ddftion tothe fact before mentioned,
stated, that the defendant offered eyidence that the heirs of Rawlins
were still living in-Maryland. That R wlins, in the year 1741, made.
his will and devised Brown's Adventure by name to some of hi'childrien. rhat: the heirs of Littleton NVaters are still living in Maryland.
That the Baltimore company, under -whnm the defendant claims, have
been for fiftyyears past in the actual possession and user of the whole
land called Brown's Adventure, by clearing and cutting the -wooI off'
the said land for their iron -works, and claiming the said land; and that
there has been no actual or mixed possession of any part of the id
land by Scart, or by'any person claiminglinder him, or.by any person.
claiming- adversely to the Baltimord company. Whereupon the defendant prayed the court to direct the jury, that if they find the facts
stated by the defendant to be true, and that no payment of principal
or interet due on the said mnrtgAge, or acknuwldgdment of the said',
mortgage, was at any tilhe paid, made or. done, on or after the 13th
of May, 1709, the jury may ahd ought to presume the said mortgage
satisfied before the year 1780, and that the plaintiff is not entitled to
stated in the
recover. But the court were of opnion that the facts
above case wMl not warrant the jury n presuming ihe .drd mortgiagm
the
dirdetion,
to
give
refused
wpas satisfied before the year L780 and
p ayed.The 8th bill of exceptions states the same facts, and that the defendant further prayed the court to direct thejury, that if the facts are found.
true as stated by the defendant, the act of confiscation ofPetobera;ps;
sion, 1780,-c. 45. and c. 46t'vested no beneficial interest in the state of
Ddaryland in theJands in the mortgage from IRawlins to -Searth, but
'that the same, if it vested in the state under the act of confitcation, was
liable to the equity of redemption in the.heirs of Rawlins. the mortgagor, and that by operation of the British treaty, so thr as the mortgngie coeld claim an interest in the said mortgaged lands, the same
vassavedfoum confiscation by the said treaty, and, consequently, the
lessor of the plintiff is not entitld'to recover.
But the court were of opinion, that on the expiration of the
time limited. in the mortgage for the payment of the money, a
complete legal estate of inheritanee*vestedl in the mortgagee liable
to confiscation, and was vested in the state- in virtue of the act of
confiscation of October session, 1760, c. 45. and the act of the same

Vol. V.

.31y

Moss
R16DLE.'

,

354,
B40so
RIDL,

\

SUPREME COURT U. S.

be signed, sealed and .dlivered by some other friend
of Welsh, which was 'not done,, and so the said
writing is void as to him the said MossTo this plea the plaintiffs demurred specially;
1st. Because a bond cannot be delivered to the
obligee himself as an escrow; 2d. Because the plea
does not state by what other, friend of Welsh it
was to have been executed; 3d. Because it did not
state by whom the execution of the bbnd, by that
other friend wag to have been procured, leaving it uncertain whether the condition upon which
it was to beconie the deed of Moss was to be
performed by him, or by Riddle, or by Welsh; 4.
Because the plea is repugnant, ificonsistent and
informal. The second plea, after protesting as in
the.first plea, avers, that Riddle came to the defendant'an'd asked him whether Welsh had not aipplied
to him, -Moss, to be his security for a debt due to
Riddle & Co.; to which Moss replied he had
told Welsh- he would not be security alone, but would
join Welsh and some other friend of his as security
or the debt, whereupon Riddle represented that
the greatest confidence was placed, in Welsh; that
saesslon,
c. 49. to appoint commissioners, subject to the right ofredcmptio in the mortgagor and his heirs, and that the British treaty cannot
operate to affect the plaintffPs right to recover in this ejectment, and
refused to give the direction prayed.
The 9th bill of exeeptions, in addition to the same facts, states, that
thedefendantofferedin evidence a lease and release from Littletorn
, aters to Benjamin Tasker and others, dated June '20, and 21, 1738,
of so much of Bi'fwn's Adventure as, qecording to a valuation upon
oath returned to the provincial court, would amount to 1451. Is. 5d.
sterling, and thereupon prayed the court to instruct the jury, that if
they find the facts as stated by the defendant, the deeds of lease and
release from Waters to Tasker and others conveyed a legal title in the
lands therein mentinned; and that if a legal title did nnt pass, then the
jury may atid
ought to presumea title in the said Tasker and others to
the whole of an undivided 386 acres of land, being an undivided part
of the 870 acres of land mortgaged to Jonathan Scarth, called Brmitw's
Adventure. But the court kcused.to give the direction prayed.
The 10th bill of exceptions states, that upon the same facts the defendant prayed the court to direct thejury that as toall that part of
Brown's Adventure cuanhained in the deed frnm "Watersto Tusker and
others, under whom the defendant claims, the patant granted to the
plaintiff does not give him a title therrtsa, or enable him to recoverthe
.ame, which direction the court refused to give.

IEBRUARY, 1809.5

$55

%he.partnershlipof Riddle & Co. was- about to be
dissolved; that Riddle would take care to keep that
piper, if- it was executed, in his dividend of the
debts; that Welsh and Moss might sign the bond at
that time, and some oth6r person might sign it after-

wards- that in regard to the-debt he would look only
to Welsh, ind would alo -give Welsh a credit for
goods, when he, Riddle, should open and commence

business on his private and individual account. The,
plea further avers, that Moss being induced by that
representation and'promise, did signseal and deliver
the writing, upon-condition that some other friend
of .the said Welsh should also sign, seal and deliver'
the same, .nd not otherwise; which was never
done. That Riddle did afterwards carry on trade
and -.merchandise, on his own separate and individual account, but never afterwards credited Welsh
with any goods- or merchandise; "and so the said
writing made, and executed as. aforesaid is void as
tfo him the said Robert Moss."
To this plea the plaintiff also demurred speoially
for the' causes stated in the first demurrer; and
further, because the plea is multifarious, argumentative, and offers to put in issue a number of matters
unconnected with the defence set up, and immaterial
in themselves.
The court below gave judgment for the plaintiffs
upon both demurrers.
Before the judgment was entered by the clerk, the
defendant below prayed leave to amend his first plya,
by striking out the words "delivered to Joseph Riddle, one of the plaintiffs in this cause," and inserting,
in lieu thereof the words " placed it" the hands of
Joseph Riddle, one of the plaintiffs in: tlijs cause."
But the court refused leave to make the amendmeat. To which refusal the defendant excepted.
Afterwards, and after the court had pronounced
judgment in the cause, the defendant moved the
court for leave to file an amended plea, which was in

Aasu
,RIDDL.

-356

SUPREME COURT-'U. S.

MOABs ill respectgs like th'2d plea, except that it averred
"that Riddle stated it to be the rule of the plaintifib
take kpecialties for.their debts if they could be
Sto
obtained, and"that the bond was deliveied'to Riddle
,
and except also
in the absence of the Other plaintin
that thq conclusion Was as, fbllows:: tand so the
said defendant, saith -that-the said writing, made
-and executed as. aforesaid, was Obtained* by deception and fraud, as aforesaid,as to him the said Robert Moss, and, by reason of the said deception, is
void as to him the said Robert Moss; and this he
is ready to verify.". But the court refused to suffer the plea to be'-filed, being of opinion .that it
would be badi upon demurrer. To this refusal also
the defendant took a bill of exceptions.

RLvn

C. Lee and Swann, for the plaintiff in error.
The plea of escrow was good. An instrument
miy be delivered to one of the parties as an escroN7.
Pazling v. UnitedStates, in this court.
It-was not delivered to the plaintiffs, but to one of
them only. It was not delivered absolutely, but
upon 'condition that it should 4so be executed by
another, person •also.
The plea 6f fraud also was good. It is not necessary to aver fraud in a plea. If the facts themselves show fracid, it is sufficient, Any thing that
avoids the deed may be pleaded; anid the conclusion, " and so the.said writing is void," is proper
and sufficient. It is not 'necessary to say it isnot.
his deed. 2 Wil. 352. Collins v. Blantern.
E. 7, Lee and jones. contra.
An instrument cannot be delivered as an escrow
to -a party who is to derive benefit under the deed.
It must always be to a stranger. Shep. Touch. 5s,
56, 57. Hob. 246. 3 Bac. Abr. 320. 694. Esp. A
P. 221.

The 2d plea isnot a plea of fraud.

It is an at-

FEBRUARY, 1809.

957

tempt to set bp as- a discotint or set-off against a

3ot-

'bond, an unliquidated claim for dainages for breach

RZDDLZ..

of a promisp.
The facts stated do xiot amount to fraud. - Fraud
consistsin the intention, the qbo animo, which is
not averred in the plea:,and'fraud-can never be presumed, especially -if it 'be not averred. I. Vent. 9.
21o. 3 Bac. '320. 1 Fonb.
,March 113.
"MARSHALL, Ch; J. delivered the*opinion.of the
court' to the following effectIt. is admitted by. the .counsel in this case, that
a bond cannot be delivered to -the obligee as an"es.
-crows But it is- contended that where'there are seve
ral o~ligees, c6nstituting a copartnership, it may be
deliv-ered- as an escrow to one of the firm. The court,
however; is of opinion that.a delivery to one is a
'deli e 'to alf. It an never be necessary to-tf~e
;,allidity of a bond that all the obligees shotild be
convened together at the delivery.
-Upon the other point the counsel for the plin.-.
tiff in'error'has insisted that the plea is sufficient.
But- the court' thinks it so radically defective as
to be bad even upon general demurrer.
There is no allegation-of- fraud, and the circumstances pleaded do -not, in" themielves, amount to
fraud.
Fraud consists in -intention; and that intention is
a fact: which ought to haie been averreo, for.it is
the gist of the plea, and wouia 'have been traversable.
Upon what was the plainflf below-to take issue?
Upon all the cirdumstancei 6taedin the plea which
are mere inducement, or upon the' cbrtclusion, that
" the bond is. void?" 'If he had traversed the
ihducemeut, the issue would have 'been immaterial:

5UPRENZ COURT U. S,

358
Moss

v.

if he" had traversed th. oncluslofi, it wotild have
been putting in issue to the jury matter of law.

RrD LE.

Judgment aqlrmed with costs.
C. Tee suggested that there was also an exception
to the refusal of the court to allow an.amended plea
to be filed, after the cpurt tad adjudged the pleas
bad.
But the Chief 7ustice said that the court had, in
ari early part of this term,40e decided that such refu'sal was no error for which the judgment could be
reversed.
See the case of J.anddlle and Jamesson v.
antef. 15.

ilson, at this term,

BRENT v. CHAPMAN.

Five years' adverse possessiou of a slave
in Virginia,
ag9od
tigives
tie
upon
whieh

-ERROR to the circuit court for* the district of

Columbia, sitting at Alexandria, in an action of tresb

pass brought by Chapman against Brent, marshal

of the district of Columbia, for taking in execition,
on aft. fa. against the estate of Robert Alexander,;
may
trespass
be maintained, deceased, a slave named Ben who was claimed by
Chapman as his property..
The jury found a verdict for the plaintiff, subject
to 'the opinion of the court 'upon a statement bf facts
agreed- by the p.rties, which was in substance as follows:
The slave was the property, and in possession of
the late Robert Alexander the e lder, at the time of
his death. His sons, Robert Alexander, and Walter
S. Alexander, were named excutors of his will, but
never qualified as such. On the 17th of December,
1803, Walter S. Alexander took out letters of administrationlirVth the will annexed.. No division was
I

