SUPREME COURT U. S.

306

States had not jurisdiction,'it not being stated that
the defendants were citizens of any state.

HonGrov.

BOWERnBAIC.

The judiciary act gives jurisdiccourts- in all suits in which ar
55, 11'
U.S. vol, I.
Law
patil.
a
a zen is

C. Lee, contra.
of the United
States havenot tion to the circuit
juri~dietion, in a a
the eae.

MA.'RHALL, Ch. J,. Turn to the article of'the
constitution of the United States, for the statute cannot extend the jurisdiction beyond the limits of the
constitution.

(The words of the constitution were found to be
"between a state, or the citizens thereof, and
foreign states, citizens, or subjects.")
The court said the objection was fatal.
The record was afterwards arpended by consent.

KEENE v. THE UNITED STATES.

The trial

of"

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of

seizures under Columbia, in a case of seizure of certain merchathe act of the

isthFebirfiary, dise, being part ot the cargo of the schooner Sea
179s afor en- Flower, Matthew Keene claimant,
d
impo
tratne
s

rolling and li-ipote

censing ships the Havanna, in the island of Cuba, into the port of
or vessels to be Vienna, in the district of Mcaryland, the vessel having
don aforeign voyage under a coasting license.
fempoed in
Uraoe and fish. The good
nt in
wla
were trans.
od tvigbe ab.e tlna
pries and fus
Veg s' ig the ported to Alexandria, in the district of Columbia,
tebe where they were seized by tl~e collector of that port,
the'ae dasti5sat

i the 3.d.ii5 and libelled and condenined in the district court of

vAbith the stiz.w'l! was,-snde;
vitlicut regard
to the district

that district, whose sentence was affirmed by the circuit court,

feitureaccrued.

tended,

vhIere the ft&- - Swann and Martin, for the plaintiff in *error,.con-

"

That there was no law which authorized the sei-

FEBRUARY, 1809.

305

zure, or the trial and condemnation out of the district.
into which the goods had been -first imported.
The goods were concfemned under the 8th section
of the act of congress, "for enrolling and licensing
ships or vessels to be employed in the coasting trade
and fisheries, and for regulating the sanme," passed
February 18, 179-3, vol. 2. p. 174. which enacts,
"that if any ship or vessel, enrolled or licensed as
aforesaid, shall proceed on a foreign voyage without
first giving up her enrolment and license to the collector of the district comprehending the port from
whichshe is about to proceed on such foreign voyage, and being duly registered by such collector,
every such ship or vessel, together with her tackle,
apparel and furniture, and the goods, wares and
merchandise so imported therein, shall be liable to
seizure and forfeiture."
By this act the forfeiture arises upon imfiortation.
The importationwas complete at Vienna, in the disIrict of MPvfaryland, where only the trial can be lawfully had.
By tht 35th section of the act, it is enacted, "that
all penalties and forfeitures which shall be incurred
by virtje and force of this act,. shall and may be
sued-f6r, prosecuted and recovered in like manner as
penalties-and forfeitures incurred by virtue of the
act enjitled An act to regulate the cbllection of the
duties imposed by law on goods, wares and merchandise, imported into the United States- and on
the tonnage of ships or vessels,' may be sued for,
proseduted and recovered, and shall be appropriated
in like manner."
-There is no act in the statute look with such a
title. The only act then in force regulating the collection of duties on goods imported, and ou tonnage,
was the act-of August 4, 1790, entitled "An act to
provide more effectually for the collection of the
duties imposed by Isw on goods, wares and men.
Q
VolI.

KaENs
THE

U. S.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
chandise, imported into the United States, and or
U. S. the tonnage of ships or vessels."

KzEEz
V

Tim

By the 67th section of this act, it is enacted, "that
all penalties accruing by any breach of this act shall
be sued for, with costs of suit, in the name of the
United States of America, in any court proper to
try the same, and the trial of any fact which mnay
be put. in issue, shall be within the judicial district
in which any such PENALTY shall have ACCRUED;
and the collector, within whose district the seizure
shall be made, is hereby authorized and directed to
cause suits for the same to be commenced and prosecuted to effect, and to receive, distribute and pay
the sum or sums recovered, after first deducting all
necessary costs and charges, according to law. And
that all shifts or vessels, goods, wares or merchandise, which shall become forfeited by virtue of this
act, shall be seized, libelled and prosecuted As ArORESAID in the proper court having"cognisance thereof,'
&c.
Here th words "as aforesaid" refer to the trial
of the fact in the judicial district where the forfeiture was incurred.
This provision is also analogous to that contained
in the 8th amendment of the constitution of the
United States, which provides for the trial of all
offences in the state and 'district where they were
committed.
The property could not lawfully be seized out
of the district of Vienna, unless by the collector of
'that port. But if- the collector of Alexandria had
a right to seize it, he ought to have sent it back to
the district of Maryland for trial.
Congress need not have recited the title of the
act to which they intended to refer, but having undertaken to do so, and not having recited it truly,
it is .as if no mode of trial had been provided; so
5

FEBRUTRY. 18o9.

307

'that there is no court competent tQ condemn the pro-.
perty. -Ta
Rodney, Attorney-General of the United States,
contra.
. The act referred to in the 35th section of the act of
the 18th of February, 1793, is the act of the 31st of
July, 1789, entitled 11 An act to regulate the collection of the duties imposed by law off the. tonnage of
ships or vessels, and on goods, wires and merchandises imported ifito the United States." This act
is not in the common edition of the laws, having
been repealed by the act of the 4th" August, 1790;
but it is found in Oswald's edits of the Lau-, vol. 1. p.
25.
The title contains precisely the same words with
the title .recited in the 35th section of the act of the
i8th of February, 1793. They-are a little transposed, but the sense is the same. Whereas the title
of the act of the 4th August, 1790, varies very essentially from the title recited. It is "1An act to provide
more eqffctually for the collection of the .duties," &c.
It is no objection that the act of the 31st of Yuly,
1789, was repealed before the act of the 18th of February,,1793, was passed. It remained in the statute
-.book, and answered every purpose of reference as
kd'..be m6de of recqveriag forfeitures, as well as if
it.
had remained in fqrcE as a law respecting the cole~ticn of duties. It,,was referred to merely to preveit 'the necessity of transcribing its provisions respeoting a particular subject.
But even the act of the 4th of August, 1790, section
67. A~es not require the trial of forfeitures to be in
the difti'ict where the cause of forfeiture arose. It
only declares that in actions for penalties, (not in
suits for forfeitures,) " the trial of any fact which
may be put in issue, shall be within the judicial district, in which such penulty shall have accrued." But
when it speaks offtr/fiturey, it says the goods, &c.

KEmm-E
V

U S.

308
Turi.
v

SUPREME COURT U. S.

"shall be seized, 1 belled andprosecuted as aforesaid,
S. in the proper court having cognisance thereof;"
which are precisely the same words with those con-.
lained in the 36th section of the act of the 31st of
yuly, 1789.
It was not necessary by the tommon law that prosecutions on penal laws should be in the counties where
the offences were committed. 3 Inst. 194. And the
stat. of 21 7ac. c. 4. making it necessary in general
cases, does not apply to revenue cases. 1 Anst. 220,
221. In such cases, when the proceedings are in
remn, the place of 'seizure always designates the
place of trial; and the thing must always be within
the ju isdiction and power of the court where the
trial is had, otherwise it can neither enforce a sale
after condemnation, nor restore the goods upon a
decree of restitution. Itis said that the collector of
Alexandria ought to have sent the goods back to
the district of Maryland, for trial. But at whose
risk and expense should they be transported? No
provision is made by law for such a case. If he had
sent the goods back to Maryland, and upon trial they
'had been acquitted, would the government take the
risk and expense of retransportation to Alexandria ?,
Nothing could be more unreasonable and inconvenient.
But if the act of the 18th of February,I793, refers
neither io the act of Ynly 31, 1789, nor to that
of th 4th of August, 1790, there is no mode of
prosecution particularly specified in the act of 1793,
and the question of jurisdiction must be decided
by the judiciar.i act of September 24, 1789, the
9th section of which enacts that the district cburts
of the (Inited States shall have exclusive original
cognisance of all seizures under the laws of impost,
navigation, or trade of the United States, where the
seizures are. made on certain waters, or on land,
within their respective districts, as well as upon the
high seas.
The collector of Alexandria not only had a

FEBRUARY, i80g.

309

0

r4ght, but it w s made his duty to seize the goods Kz'zz
under the 70th section of the collection law of 1799.. TEZ U. S.
/
Vol. 4. p. 390. But whether the collector had a right .wa
-to seize or not, the seizure having been made, it
Was the duty of the court to take cognisance bf it.
March 15.
LiVItIGSTON,

J; delivered the opinion of the

court as fo.Uows, viz.
This is a seizure on land, by the collector of the
port of Alexandria, for a breach of the act for eanrolling and licensing ships or vessels to be tmptoyed
in the coasting trade and fisheries, and for regula"tingthe same, passed 18th February, 1793.
The breach alleged is, that a certain schooner
called the Sea Flower, duly einrolled and licensed,
sailed to a foreign port, without having first giv:n
up her enrolment and license, and without being
duly registered. That, on her return voyage, there
were imported in the said schooner, from the Havanna into the port of Vienna, in the district of
Maryland, certain goods, and thence transported to
the town of Alexandria, in the district 4of Columbia,
and within the collection district of Alexandria.
The goods-were condemned by the circuit court,
and the only error relied on is, that there is no
law authorizing a condemnation in a district different from that in which the forfeiture accrued.
The S5th section of the act under which the
seizure was made, declares that all penalties, incurred thereby, shall be sued for in the same manner as pehalties incurred by virtue of an act entitled "An act to regulatd the collection of the duties imposed by law on goods, wares and merchandises imported into the United States, and on the
tonnage of ships or vessels."
On examining the different acts of congress on
this subject, there is none whose title exactly corresponds with the reference here made. It is con

310
THU. s.

'

SUPREME COUJRT V S.

tended by the counsel for the United States, that
the act here intended, although it does not bear,
in terms, the same title, is the one regulating duties,
which passed the 31st of July, 1789, and that this
does not render it necessary that the trial should be
tiithin the district where 1he forfeiture accrued;
while the plaintiff insists that) as this act had been
repealed several yetirs prior to the passing of the lawunder which this seizure was made, it is more-probable that a reference was ititended to gnother act, on
the same subject, of the'4th of August, 1790, which
re'quires that the trial of any fact which may be put
in issue shall be within the judicial district in which
,any.penalty shall have accrued. It is not impro"bable that 'his was the law intended; but as the
title of neither corresponds with thl one given in
this act, the court thinks that the proceedings on
forfeitures accruing under it, may'wl be governed
by the 9th section of the act to establish the judicial
"courts of the United States, which cofifers, on
the district courts, jurisdiction of all seizures under laws of impost, navigation, or trade of the United States, when the seizures are made on.waters
which are navigable from the sea, by vessels of
ten or more tons .burden, within their re pective
districts; and also of all seizures on land, or other
waters, than as aforesaid made,, and of all suits for
penalties and forfeitures incurred under the laws of
the United States. It is a fair construction of this
section, taking the 'whple together, that nothing
more is necessary to give jurisdiction in cases of
ris nature, than that the seizure should be within
the district; without any regard to the place where
the forfeiture accrued. It would, in many cases,
be attended with much delay and iiijury, without
any one advantage, were it necessary to send
property for trial to a distant distritt, merely
because the forfeiture had been -incufred there,
The court feels no disposition to impose these inconveniences on either of the parties, unless where
it be positively directed by an act of. congress.
There being no provision of that kind in the'law under which this Ibrfeiture accrued, the court cannot
perceive any eiror in the proceedings below ; and

FEBRUARY, 1809.

311

"herefore orders that the judgement of the circuit K Es
Tim U.
court be affirmed with costs.

S.

THE UNITED STATrES v. RIDDLE.

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of Thelaw punishes the atColumbia, which had affirmed the sentence of the tempt,
not tho
district court restoring certain cases of merchan-intentiontodefi
of aud the reve
dise which had been seized by the collector Stinle
by false
Alexandria, under the 66th section of the collction invoices.
A doubt con.
law of 1799, vol. 4. ft. 388. because the goods Swere
eCerning the
not - i n v o i c ed according to the actual cost there- eonstructionof
law may be
of, at the place of exportation,"owith design to evade agood
greund
t of the duties.
seizure,
r
and authorize

part

The goods were consigned by a merchant of ac rtifiat of*
probable catte.

Liverpool, in England, to Mr. Riddle, at Alexandria,
for sale, accompanied by two invoices; one charging them at 671. 5i. 6d. the other at 1321. 14s. 9d.
with directions *to enter them by the small invoice,
and sell them by the larger.' Mr. Riddle delivered
both invoices and all the letters and papers to the
collector, and offered to enter the goods, in such
manner as he should direct. The collector informed him that he must enter them by the larger invoice, which he did. But the collector seized them
as forfeited under th 66th section of the collection
law of 1799, which enacts,. "that if any goods,
wares or merchandise, of which entry shall have
been made in the office of a collector, shhll not be
invpiced according to the, actual cost thereof at the
place of exportation, with design to evade the duties thereupon, or hny part thereof, all such goods,"
&c. "s hall be forfeited." The same section contains a provision for the appraisement of the goods
by two merchants in case the collector shall suspect
that the goods are not invoiced at a sum equal to
that at whith they have been .usudlly sold in the.
placefrom whence they were imp brted, witha pro.

