FEBRUARYf 1809.

D15

of the size of the vessel will avoid a policy, of that HonosoN
C.
any misrepresentation, however- minuate, will have
that effect. It is to be hoped, in the mein time, that. '
some statutory provision may be made, which will
Telieve the court from a similar embarrassment.
Judgment reversed.

THE UNITED STATES -v. JUDGE PETERS.

AT the last term Gideon Olif'stead, in behalf of The legisi'.
state
,,f aa|nnul
tare
and
'
ecannoqt
"
himself and' Artimus White, Aquilla Rumsdale,
the
Jdgmets,
t
David Clark, moved the court for a mandarnuv,
nor determine
be directed to the honourable Richard Peters, judge tl-jurisdiction,
of, the district court of the United- States for the f tile c,,crts
Pennsylvania district, corhmandirig him to order and or tht. United
direct an attachment or other proper process to is.ue. The court of
to the sentence of the said dis- appeals in
to enforce obedience
trier court in a civil cause of admrlty and marime priet causes,
arile ciectedhby the
amry
jurisdiction, in which.the said Gideon Olmstead'and- continental
ree..ess,to hald
,others were libellants, and Elizabeth Serjeant and power
Esther Waters were respondents. This motion was ,ise and crthe
rect th of senmade upon a suggestion, supported by- affidavit, that tencs
a copy of the sentence had been served upon the state courts of
.A.rthou'gh the
xespondents, which they refused to obey; and that admiralty.
,i a
of
application had been made to the juige for an 4t- clid
iniy. be
tachfnent, which he had refused to grant; whereupon state
uitm.tely afSa mandamus nisi was granted returnable to this term; f&cted by the
of a
decision
when the judge made the following return:
calie, yet if
the state be not

"On Saturday, March 5th, ISOB, upon the affidarit oFijimstead, n'rile nccessarily a
Iva$ granted that Judge Peters shoud shw cause by the next Satar- defeldan, tte
day, why a mandamus should not isue. On Matarday, March 12th, a crts of the
letter was received -by ine of the counsel for •Olmstead, from Judge United ZtAtes
Peters, acknowledging service-of the ruli;, and statiog that all act of arc build to
the legislature of Peonsylsauia halt commanded ihe geovernor of that exercise jx.
state to call out an armed force to prevent t m exceition of any prhwees risdiution,.
to enforce the perlormsance of the sentence. That s'elh being the
state of things he should nut dihect process to issue unlbss -he should

be 'so or~ered by this court ; whereupon a mandanue Wim fas granted,
returnable at the uext term.

SUPREME COURT, U. S.
'iz

.S.
v

"To the honourable the supreme court of the
United States,
1'the subscriber, judge of the district court of the
United States in and.for the district of Pennsylvania, in obedience to the rnandarius issued by order
of the supreme court in the.case of Gideon Olmstead
and othets, libellants, against'the surviving executrixes of the late David Rittenhouse, Esq. and to
the said district judge directed, begs leave to returin,
" That the proceedings of the district court in the
aboye cause, which are herewith transmitted, and
respectfully submitted, will show the grounds of the
judgment by the said court rendered. Every opportunity, through the whole course of these proceedings, was giveh to the parties 'to litigate the claim,
or discuss questions, either on the merits or jurisdiction. Nor was any step taken, without due and
timely notice.

"The answer of the respondents will show their
This
objections. to the claim of the libellants.
answer refer. to ar., act of assembly of the state of
Pennsylvania, passed the 26th day of February,

1801, which was not produced or brought under the
legal notice of the court.
No application for execution of the decree was
made until vithin twelve or eighteen months past;
nor has it been, till more recently, much pressed.
"By the suggestion. filed by the respondents,
their objections to the 'execution of 'the decree will
appear. They have made an act of assembly of
the state of Pennsylvania a part ot their sugges-

tion; and thus, for the first time, during the pendency of the suit, brought this act under the-judicial
nptice of the'court. It is entitled "An act relating
to the claim of this commonwealth against Elizabeth St'rje-nt and Esther Waters, surviving executrixes of D.vid Rittenhouse, Esq. deceased, passed

FEBRUARY, 1809.

117

April the second, 1803 :'" and to this act I pray leave
to refer.

"This act, or any of its allegations, has no'.influence on my opifiion.. Let this opinion. be erroneous or correct, a proceeding, in some of its parts,
indecorous, and, in others, unjustifiable, can have
no. operation in rectifying supposed errors, or convincing my judgment. But from prudential, more
.than'other motives,. I deemed it best to avoid embroiling the government of the United States and
that of Penns) Ivania (if the latter government sho'uld
ehoose so to do) on a question which has resie.d on
my single opinion, so far as it is touched by my decree:, and, under .the influence of this sentinent, I
have withheld thv process required. If this be not
considered a legal cause, it must be deemed a candid acknowledgment that I do not invariably obey
a x:ignrous dictate of duty, or follow an inflexibly
strict construction of law.
"9I entertained a hope that,,a legislature succeeding that by which the act before mentioned was
passed, would, under a more temperate view of the
subject, have repealed it; and enabledrand directed
the executive of the state, or some other authority, to
put this case in a legal train of investigation: So that
the final judgment and decree of the superior tribunal
bf the United States might have been, in a proper
course, obtained , and thereby any erroneous opinion,
or decree, given or ma'de by me, might have been
rectified (if. any o4inion-or decree should have been
*found illegal or erroneous) in' a manner more becoming the real dignity of a state, more suitable to
the. situation of those who execute the duties of a
branch of the governme'nt of the United States, and
more consistent with the good order and peace of
the community. This hope was cherished by- the
proceedings of the legislature of Pennsvlvania, in
'other cases wherein the state claimed ,interests.
This expectation has been disa "ointed. There be"Ingno other legal mode of obtainiig the decision of

TUE U. S.
PE'ERS.

118

SUPREME COURT U. S.

TUE U. S. the superior tribunal of the United States, (the only.
PETERs.

jurisdiction by which the judgments of inferior

courts of the United States can be finally %rectifiedor
judicially annulled,) I have thought it proper, and,,
under all circumstances, fully justifiable, to obtain
that decision, by placing. the case under the cognisance of your honoiurable court, in its present form.
" On the merits and justice of the claim of the
libellants, I have no doubt; but remain of the
same opinion I have mentioned in my decree.
" As to the juiisdiction; I have never conceived
that the allegations on. this point, contained in the
act of ass.embly last mentioned, had legal 'foundation. It is well known to your honourable court,
that third persons claiming interes ts in pais, cannot,
by such claims, constitute themselves, or be judidially considered, parties in suits pending in ihe
names of others. Nor does there now exist any
legal mode of interpleading, or compelling states to
become parties to suits in tie' courts of the United
States. Yet if your honourable court shall be of
opinion that the objections to jurisdiction are relevant, I shall, agreeably to my duty, continue to,
-withhold any farther proceeding.
But if, on the
other hand, a-peremptory direction to execute the d ecree shall be the consequence of your deliberations,
having now the whole case before you, there can be
no order or direction, which it is in my legal obligation to obey, to which (impell'd by a sense of
justice, however I may regretthe circumstance, a!
it respects the parties respondents, or other. conse-quences which may flow from it) I shall more cheerfully submit.
RICHARD PETERS.

Philadelphia,Yuly 18th, 18082'
The facts as they appear in, the record and. docu..
ments referred to by the judge, in the above answer,
were in substance as follows.
Gideon

Olmstead,

Artimus

White,

Aquilla

FEBRUARY, 1809.

119

Runidile and David Clark. citizens aid inhabi- TEr U. S.
V
tants of the state of Connecticut, were, during the PrTiRO;
revolutionary war, captured by the British and carried to Jamaica, wheie they were put on board. the
iloop Active to assist as mariners in navigating the
sloop to New-York, then in ppssession of the Bitish, with- a cargo of supplies for "the fleets and armiesif Great Britain. During which voyage, about
the- 6th of September, .1778, they rose upon the
master and'crew of the sloop, confined them to tile
cabin, took the command'of-the vessel' and steered'
for Egg .Harbour, in the state of New-Jersey. On
the. 8th of September, when in' sight of'that harbour they were'pursued, and forcibly taken possession of by Captain Thdmas, Houston, commander
'of the armed brig Convention,.belon'gihgto the state
of Pennsylvania, and, on the 15th 'of Septe iber,
brought into the port cf Philadelphia-; -when Houston libelled the ve'ssel as prize to the Convention. A
claim.was interposed by Captain James Josiah' master of the Anrican privateer Le Gerard,who claimed alshare of the capture as having been in sight
and by.agreement crailsing in concert. vith the Convcntion. A claim was aTso interlosed by Olmstead
and others for ttie whole vessel and' cargo, as- being
their exclusive' prize. The.state court of.admiralty,.
however, adjudged them only one fourth part, an.d
decreed the residue to be divided betwen.the state
and the owners of'the privateer, and the officersand
crews of 'the Convention and te -e Gerard. From
this seritencd Olistead and others appeai d to the.
court.of commissioners'-of 'appeals in prize caises
for-th United.States of America,.where, on the15th
of'December, '1778, thq sentence of the state court was
reversed, and it was ordered and adjudged that the
vWssel ind cargo should be coidemned as lawfhl prize
for the use of the appellanLs,, Olmstead and, others%
and that the marshal should sell the same, and -pay
the net prOceeds to them or their-agent or attorney.
Upn iecelpt of a copy of thi~s sentence, the court,
of.admirhIty made the"foll6wing ordere"

120

SUPREME COURT, U. 8.

XFz.U.
" Thomas Houston, Esq. et al.,J
V." S.
PETEFS.
appellees,
ads.
"In the court of
Admiralty, for
"Gideon Olmstead,. Artimus
the State of
White, Aquilla Rumsdale,
Pennsylvania.
and David Clark, appellants,
claimants of the sloop Ac- I
tive and her cargo.
J
"The court, taking into consideration the decree
of the court of appeals in- this cause, reversing the
judgment or sentence of this court in the same
cause, and further decreeing a condemnation of the
sloop Active, he" tackle, apparel, furniture and cargo,
as prize, &c. and that process of this court should
issue for the sale of the said sloop, her cargo, &c. and
for the .distribution of 'the moneys arising from the
said sale after deducting costs, to the claimants
above named, their agent or attornd; after mature
consideration' are of opinion, that, although the
court of appeals have full authority to alter or set
aside the decree of a judge of this .court, yet that
the finding of the jury in te cause does establish
the facts in the cause without re-examinaition or appeal. And therefore the verdict of the jury still
sanding, and being in full force, this court cannot
issue any process, or proceed in iny manner whatsoever contradictory to the finding of the said jury.
And therefore doth now decree, o.rder and adjudge,
that the marshal- of this court be commanded tosell at public vendue at the highest price- that can
be gotten for the same, the said sloop or vessel called
the Active, her tackle, apparel and furniture, and the
goods, wares and merchandises laden and found on
board her at the tim of her capture, &c. and after
deduciing the costs and charges of the trial, condemnation and sale thereof, out of the moneys arising fr6m the said sale, that he bring the residue.
thereof into court, there to remain ready to abide
the further order*cf this covirt therein.
"George Raw,
" December 28th, 1778."

FEBRUARY, 18o9.

121

The finding of the jury, alluded to in the above
order, was in these words:

".Ip the cause wherein Thomas Houston is libellant, and Olmstead and others first claimants, and
James Josiah second claimant, we find as follows:
1-4th of the net proceeds of the sloop Active and
her cargo to the first claimants.
3-4ths or tne net proceeds of said sloop and her
cargo to the libellant and to th6 second claimants,
as per agreement between them.
.Nov. 4th, 1778.'
The vi.arrant which Judge Ross directed to be
,issued to the marshal to make sale of the *vessel
and cargo, in pursuance of the above order, and
which was accordingly issued on the 28h of December, 1778, afterreciting the proceedings in this
court, and in the court of appeals, proceeds as follows : " This court therefore taking into consideration the premises, and being of opini6n that consistent with the laws of this state it cannot carry' into
execution the whole of the said sentence of the honourable the court of appeals aforesaid : yet willing,
so far as the said sentence appear" legal, to carry
it into effect, and to prevent, as far as possible, any
injurie*s or losses which the parties to this cause,
or either of them, may be liable to by the vessel and
cargo continuing in their present situation, do
therefore hereby command you iorthwith to sell,"
&c. "and, after deducting the costs and charges, to
bring the residue of the said moneys into court
ready to abide the further order of this court."
This' warrant was made returnable at a court of
admiralty to be holdrn at the judge's chambers, onthe 7th of January, 1779.
Copies of: the above order and -warrant being
produced, on the, same 28th of December, 1778,
before the court .of appeals, it was moved, on the
Vol. V.

Q

Tuz

U.

PETZS.

12
-THa U.S.
ETERS.

"

SUPREME COURT U. S.

part of the appellants, Olmstead and others, that
, rocess might issue to the marshal of the admiralty
of Pennsylvania, commanding him to e'xecute'the
decree of the court of appeals; and after'. argument
the case was' postponed for further argument until
AMonday, 4th of January, 1779, at 5 o'clock P. M.
On which day at 8 olcloc/.A. M. the court of appials
being: ngain, convened at the pressinginstance and
request of the claimants Olistead and others, it was
iLoved ,-ndstggested by their advocates that notwithstanding the decree of the court of appeals,
whikh had been transi-itted to the court of admiral-ty, the judge of that court had appointed the hour
of nine on that morning for the marshal to pay into
court the money arisinig from the. sale of the sloop
Active .and cargo; which suggestion was supported by the oath of the registrar of the admiralty;
whereupon it was prayed that an injunction might
issue from the court of appeals directed to the mar.
shial of .the court of. admiralty, commanding. him to"
keep the, moaey in his banhr, until the further orde"
qf the coirt of appeals; which injunction was aecord'
ingly .granted, ,reriting -the. sentence of the court
of admiralty and its reversali and the decree -by the
court.qf appeals; the refusal of the judge of thecourt
of admiralty'to cause that-decree to be executed; and
the motion to the court of appeals for a -rit to' the
marshal commanding him- to execute the same;
the continuan., of that motion, to the 4th of January, 1779, qt .5 o'clock P. M. and the appointment of
the -hour of 9 o'ciock A.. M. of the zame day, by
the special order of the judge of the c -irtof admiralty. for the marshal to -- f the money into that
court, whereby the effect of the writ prayed fdr, if
the court should grant it, would be eluded.
. This injunction was served upon the maralial before he paid the money into the court of admiralty;
but he: disregarded it,. and paid the money over to
the juidge , who gave a receipt for it.
"Whereupon the court (of appeals)Xdecfaredand
ordered to be. entered on record, that s-the judge
and -marshal of the court of admiralty of the state

FEBRUARY, 1809.

. 123 '

of Pennsylvania had absolutely and resoectivel ye- Tim U. S.
fused, obedience to the decree and writ-regularly pr"RL
made in and issued from this court, to which .they .
and.each of them viere and.was botind"to pay obe.dience, this court being unwilling to enter upon
any proceedings for contempt, lest consequences
might ensue at this.juncture dangerous to the pubHi
peace bf the United States, will not proceed further
in this affair, nor hear any appeal, until 'the authority of this court be so settled as to give full efficacy
to their 'decrees and process.
" Ordered that the register do prepare a state of
theproceedings had Upon theidecree.of -this court,in thi case of the' sloop Active, in order thaf 'the
commissioners may lay the same before cohigress%."

Upon the writ issued by the judge coinmandihg
the marshal to sqll the vessel and cargo, and bring
the proceeds into court to abide its-further order,"
the marshal, on the 4th of January, 1779i returnedi.
'that in obedience to that writ he had deposited iii
the court of admiralty 47,981!. 2s. 5d. Pennsylvaaiw
l
currency, on account of the cargo of the "priies opActive; but that the sloop remained yet unsold.
The, money was loaned to the United btates, and
the.loan-office certificates iErought into court and de-.
posited in the hands of the judge, who.; on the'lst of
May, 1779, delivered to David Rittenhouse, treasurer of the state of Pennsylvania, fifty of die certificates, -amounting .to.1 1,4961. 9s. 9&d "being the
share or dividend of the state in 'right of the brig
Convention in and out of the prize sloop Acti ve,
according to theverdirt of the jury -on the trial of'
the' said sloop Active in the .admiralty.court 'of that
state ;" at the same timi taking a b9 nd of indemnity
from Mr; Rittenhouse, by the name of 1,David Rittenhouse, of the city Pf ]Philadelphia, gent." the contlition of which was that ' Whereas the said George
Ross hath. this day paid. to thp shid-David Rittefi"
house, treasurer of the state of.:Pennsylvdnia, fdr
the use of the said state, tho sum," .kc. Now "if
he the said David Rittenhouse shall make repay-

1-21
inz U.S.
V

SUPREME COURT V. S.

ment anE restitution of the said sum of 11,4961. 9s.
9d. unto the said George Ross, his executors or adSiministrators, in case he the said George Ross shall
hereafter by due course of law be compelled to pay
the same accerding to the decree of the court of
appeals in .the case of the said sloop Active; and if
he the said David Rittenhouse shall and do in all
things well and truly save harmless and indemnified atall times hereafter the said Geoige Ross, his
heirs, executors and administrators, and his and their
lands and tenements, goods and chattels of and from
all damages, actions and demands which may arise
or happen, for or on account of his having paid .the
money aforesaid, then the above obligation to be
void, or else to be and remain in full force and
virtue."
The certificates were afterwards funded in the
name of David Ritienhouse, and among his papers
was found a list of the old loan-office certificates,
and, of the new funded stock, at the foot of which
was written, in the hand writing of Mr. Rittenhouse
thetiollowving memorandum:
"Note. The above certfi cates will be the property of 'the stats of PenIIs- Ivania, when the state
releases me from the bond I gave in 1778, to indemnify George Ross, Esq. judge of the admiralty,
for payin g te 'flilty original certiicates into the state
treasury as the stae's share of the "prize."
In the year 1801, the legislature of Pennsylvania
passed an act requiring the treasulier to call upon the
executrixes of Mr. Rittenhouse for the certificates bf
stock, and to give them a bond of indemnity, but they
refused to deliver. thtm up, being atdvised that they
would not be safe in so doing.
*On the 4th .bf January, 1803, the judge of the
district court for the district of Pennsylvania, pronounced the followinb final decree in the cause:
"This is the long depending case of the sloop
&ctive and cargo. It Comes before me by libel

FEBRUARY, 1809.-

*125

1
'filed against the executors of tie late Mr. Ritten- TSI, V.U. S.
house, who received from- George Ross, Esq. then P TEt
judge of the state court of admiralty, the sums mentioned in the libel, which were invested in the certificates of stock as stated therein. Mr. Rittenhouse,
on ieceiving these certificates, whichi were proceeds
of the sales of the said sloop and cargo, gave'a bond
of indemnity to' Mr. Ross, which is now offered,
livhenpavment of these proceeds is made, to be. delivered- up. The suit- is instituted for the purpose.
of carrying.int 6 effect a decree of the court of appeals established under the old. cbnfederation, a copy
whereof appears among the exhibits. In the answer it is alleged that the moneys wire received for
the state of Pennsylvania. In the rtplication this is
in'a memorandum made by Mr. Rittendenied.
house, at the foot of the abcbount exhibited, it appears
that he intended to 'pay over these proceeds to the
state, when indemnified. .No such payment ever has

been made, and the certificates and moneys are yet
in the hands of the respondents."It appears to me that Mr. Ritten'house cbnsidered
himself,' as I conceive he was, a stakeholder, liable
to' pay over -the deposit to those la*fully entitled
thereto. His executors conceibe 'themselves in the
same predicament, and have declined paying over
the certificates and interest. No counsel'have ap.peared, and requested to, be heard on the part.6f
the respondents,- -and 'I am left to judge fron the
libel, answer, replication and exhibits which contain
the state .ofthe facts. If I' should be thought mistakerl in the opinion I form on the subject, there is
time and opportunity to appeal to a superior tribunal.
"11 throw out of the case 'all circumstances not
immediately within my present view of the duty I
have to perform. I have nothing to do 'with the

,original question, that has been. deciaed by the
.court of appeals; nor does it appear to me essential
for me to determine with what intentions Mr. Rittenhouse received the certificates. The fact of the

1,26
TanVoU.S.
PaTPat.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

certificates and interest being now in the hands of
the respondents is granted by them in their answer.
It has been determined by the supreme court of the
United States that this court has power to effectuate
the decrees of the late court of appreals in prize
causes, and this court has, on several occasions,
practised agreeably to that decision. There i. no
doubt in my mind (the authorities in the books being
clear on this'point) that the process and jurisdictioiq
of this court.wiIl reach and extend over the proceeds
of all ships, goods and articles" taken as lawful prize,
found within the district, and legally proceeded
against therein. These proceeds are under the
same legal disposition, and subject.to the same responsibility, under whatever shape they may appear,
as the original thing from which they were produced.
It is conceded -that the certificates and moneys in
question are proceeds of the sloop and cargo in the
libel mentioned." These werb decreed to the libellants by thee judgment of the late court of appeals.
I am, therefore, of opinion, and accordingly decree,
and' finally adjudge and determine, that the certificates be transferred and delivered, -and the interest
moneys paid over by the respondents to the libellants, in execution of the- judgment and decree of
the court of appeals, as stated in the proceedings in
this cause, with costs. tmake it, however, a condition that the bond of indemnity be cancelled or delivered to the re'pondents, on their compliance with
this decree.
" Richard Peters.
"'January 14, 1803."
No further proceedings in this cause were had in
the djstict court until the 18th 6f May, 1807, when,
on motion of Mr. Iewis, in behalf of the libellafts,
Olmstead and others, the respondents were ruled
to how cause by the next Friday why the -decree
prohiounced in this cause should not be carried into
execution; ind the bbnd of indemnity refirred to
in the decree was filed incourt ready to be delivered

FERUARY;.

og.

7
10'

.up, or cancelled, on; compliance with the decree by 'Pit.
the respqldeflts.
nOthe bth of W¢Iay,. 1807; to which day the rule
had been enlarged, the respondents appeared and
.suggsted to the court,
That alter miakini'th& decree.in this case, to wit)
on the" second day of April, A. D. i863, the general
assembly of the commonwealth of, Pennsylvania
~ss'ed an act, which was then approved by the
Sgbvernor of the said commonwealth, in the following
words : "An act relating to the claim of this conimonwealth against Elizabeth Serjeant'and Esther
Waters, surviving executrixes of David Rittenhouse,
Esq. deceased."
* Whereas,.by an act of congress .for the erecting of
tribunals competent to determine the propriety of
captures during the late wae between -Great Britain.
and. her then colonies, passed the 25th day 6f November, one thousands.even -hindared and. seventyfive, it is enacted, in the fourti section thereof as
follows, viz. "'That it be and is hereby recommended to the'several legislatures in -thd United
Colonies, as soon is possible to erect iourts of jus-.
tice, orgive jurisdiction to..the courts now in being
for the purpose of determining concerning the cap-,
tures to be made as gforesaid, .and to provide that'all
tyials in such case be had by ajuryl under such quali* fications as to the respective legislatures shall seem .
expedient;" and ih the sixth section-thereof as follows, viz. "That in-all cases an appeal shall be alloweltfto the congress, or to such person or persons.
as they shall.appoint for the, trial of appeals."
And whereas, by. an 'act of the general assembly
of Pyennsylvania, passed the 9th of September,
1778, entitled, " An act for'establishing a 'court of
admiraltyP appeals were allowed from the gaid
toutt in all cases, unless from the determinktion or
finding of the facts by a jury, which Was under the
pjirovisions of that law to be without ie-exanainatiot

128
Ta U. 8.
PETRS.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

or appeal : And whereas, by aresolution.of congress
of the 15th of January, 1780, it was, among other
Sthings, declared, "1That trials in the'court of appeals
shall be according to the law of nations, and not by
jLry."
And whereas the British sloop Active, having
been captured as .prize on the high seasi in the
month of September, 1778, and brought into the'
port of Philadelphia, and there libelled in the court
of admiralty of the said state, held before George
Ross, Esq. the then judge of the said court, on the
18th day of the shid month of September: And
whereas the libellants. then and there- against the
,aid sloop Active, Gideon Urmstead or Olmstead,
Artimus White, Aquilla Rumsdale and David Clark,
who claimed the whole vessel and cargo as their exclusive prize; Thomas Houston, master of the brigConvention; a vessel of war belonging to Pennsylvania, who claimed a moiety of the said prize for. the
state of Pennsylvania, himself, and his crew; and
james Josiah, master of the "ifoop Gerard; private
vessel of --war, who claimed one fourth part- of the
said prize for himself, his oners and crew:: And
whereas all the facts respecting the said capture being submitted to the said court of admiralty, and a
jury then and there returned, empanhelled and sworn,
a general verdict was brought in by the said jury,
which was confirmed by the cotirt, vA.erehy Gideon
Olmstead, Artimus White, Aquilla Rumsdale and
David Clark, became entitled to one fourth.of :the
"said prize; Thormas Houston, for himself and 'crew,
became entitled to another, fourth; the state of
Pennsylvania, as owner of the vessel of war the
"Convention,'to "an~ther fourth; and James Josiah,
himself and owners and crew of *the sloop Gerdrd,
became, entitled to the remaining one fourth part of
the- said prize: And whereas the said Gideon Olimstead, Artimus White,. Aquilla..Rumsdale and David
Clark, being -dissatisfied-with the verdict and sentenc'e aforesaid, did appeal from the said court of
admiralty of PennsylVania, unto the court. or committee of appeals appo'inted as aforesaid under the

FEBRUARY, 1Eo9.

129

authority of congress, notwithstanding the recom- THEU .
mendation of congress aforesaid, of the 25th day "pErS.
of' November, 1775, for the appointment of courts
of admi.ralty in eachof the ihen United Colonies, did
expressly provide that all trials respecting capture
should be had by a jury, and under such qualifications as to the respective legislatures should seem
expedient, and notwithstanding the court of appeals
did decide not by a jury, but by the usage of nations,
and notwithstanding the law for establishing the
court of admiralty of Pennsylvania did expressly
take away the right of appeal where the facts were
found and determined by the intervention of a jury,
and notwithstanding the ,state was authorized at
the time to make such qualification or provision,
taking away th6 right of appeal in jury cases, by
virtue of the recommendation of congress afore-said, which allowed and recommended the said
tourts of admiralty to be established -with a jury
under such qualifications as to the respective legislatures should seem expedient: And whereas the
said court of appeals of the United States, on the
15th day of December, 1778, did reverse the sentence of the court of admiralty aforesaid, and did
* decree the whole of the said prize to the appellants:
And whereas the judge. of the court of 'admiralty,
*to wit, George Ross aforesaid, did refuse obedience
to the decree of reversal, and did direct Matthew
Clarkson, then marshal of the said court, to pay
part of the proceeds of the said.prize, to the amount
of 11,4961. 9s. 9d. Pennsylvania currency, for the
.use of the -state of Pennsylvania, into the treasury
of the state of Pennsylvania, whereof David Rit"tenhouse was theh treasurer, taking a bond of indemnity from the said David Rittenhouse, as treasurer
as aforesaid, to save him the said George Ross, his.
executors, adminiftrators, &c. harmless from the
consequenices-of such p.ayment, which bond is dated
the 1st day of May, 1779: . And whereas the said
George Ross dying, suit was, brought against his
executors in the court of common pleas of Lancaster county, by and on the part of the appellants
before named for the money whereunto they preVrol.
V:

R

ISO
TH"V.U. S.
PEITRS.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

'tended title by virete of the decree aforesaicl of the
court of appeals i-eversing.the sentence of the court
of admiralty, whereof the said George Rosshad
been judge: An'd wheieas it does not, appear that
the said David Rittenhouse had any notice' or informtion, or"was in any legal way apprized of,*or
matle aparty to, the said suit in the court of common.pleas of Lancaster c6unty, either -inhis personal capacity, or as treasurer' of the state of Penn-

sylvania, so that judgment was obtained by defait
against the executors of thesaid George Ross without any knowledge of the said David ,Rittenhouse,
,or his being able to take anyi measures on belalf. of
himself 'or the state 9 f Pennsylvania to pievent the
same: And whereas, ii consequence of the judgm ent so obtained in the said court of common pleas
of Lancaster county, againit the executors of the
said George Ross, 'the said- executors" brbught suit
against, the said David Rittenhouse, which, in the
.' ar one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-two,
-in the term -of April of the same year, was heard
and determined in the supreme 'court of P'eniisylvania, (on a case stated for the opinion of the court,
after verdict, taken for the plaintiff, subject to that
opinion,) by Thomas M'Keani cbi&f .justice, and,
others, th& judges of the said couirt, who, among
other things thereunto relating, did decree and determine that the reversal, as before mentioned, had
and made in the court of algpeals, was contTary to
the' provisions of the act of congress r commending
the establishmeht: 6f . courts of.admiralty, and of
the general. assembly of the st;.te of Pennsylvania,
in their act for the establishment of the said court,
and was extrajudicial, erroneous and void, and
that the court' of cQmmon pleas of .thbe couhty-of
Lancaster was. incompetent to carry into effect the
decree of the court of appeals, and thai the: judge
of the court of admirilty aforesaid, George Ross,
was not liable to an action iI, a court of-law for distribiting money *according to his decree, as judge
of the said court.: And wheieas at the second session of the, third congress of the United Sttes,
held: at the, city of Phila'delphia, in the month of

FEBRUARY, 1809.

131

December, one thousand, seven hundred and ninety- Tar U.
v.
three, it was proposed, as an amendment to the
judicial
the
that
States,
United
constitution of the
power of the United States shall not be 'construeai
to extend to any suit, in law or equity, commenced
or -prosecuted against.one of the United States by
citiiens of another state, or by citizens or subjectp
of any foreign state, which, having been adopted by
the requisite number of itates, agappears by the communication, to congress of the then president, John
Adams, to this purpose, of-January the eighth, one
thousand, seven hundred and ninety-eight, did become a part of the constitution'of the United States
And whereas, on the twenty-seventh day of May, one
thousand, eight hundred and. two, the said Gideon
Olmstead, Artimus White, Aquilla Rumldale and
David Clark, by.their attorney, William Lewis, Esil.
did file a -bill' in the district court of the United States, at Philadelphia, for the district of- Pennsylvania, before Richard Peters, judge of the said court,
against Elizabeth Serjeant and Esther Waters.
surviving executrixes 6f David Rittenhouse afore-:
sa*dT, deceased, for the recqvery of the moneys, with
interest, so paid into the hands of -the said David
Rittenhouse by Matthew Clarkson; marshal of the
admiralty court aforesaid, as proceeds of the prize,
the brig Active so captured as- aforesaid; and bk,
tle said ^David Rittenhouse and his executrixes
aforesaid formerly aid still retained: And whereas,
in the. answer of the said Elizabeth" Serjeant iind
Esther WVaters to the bill aforesaid, it sufficiently
and substantially appears,;that the said money was
originally received by the said David Rittenhouse,
and was by him detained, as treasurer of the .conimonwealth of Pennsylvania, which commonwealth
was, and still is, interested in, and a claimant of, the
same, iander the decree of the said George Ross,
asjudge of the court 6f admiralty in manner..as herein
before stated; And whereas the said Richard Peters,
jddge of the said district court, on the bill, answer
and replication *so filed by and between, the said
Gideon" Olmstead, Artimus White, Aquilla Rumsdale and David Clark, of the one part, against Eli-

S.

SUPREME .COURT V. S.
Tui ti. S. zabeth Serjeant and Esther Waters, executries an
.-aforesaid,- did, on the-.fourteenth day uf January,

6ne thousand, eight hundred and three, .proce*ed to
decree as follows,'viz. "This is the long depending
case -of the sloop Active and cargo," &c. All
which legal proceedings herein before statea, 'will
more fully and at large appear on reference to the
records of the respective courts wherein the game
wqre had: Therefore it hath become necessary for
the general assemrbly of Pennsylvania, as guardians
of the rights and interests of this commonwealth,
and to prevent any future infringements on the
same, to declare, that the jurisdiction entertained by
the court or committee of appeals, over the decree
of George Ross, as judge of the court of admiralty
of Pennsylvania, in the suit where the claimants bf
the brig Active, as prize,, were the libellants, as
h,:rein before stafed,.was illegally usurped and exercised, in contradiction to the just rights of Pennsylvania, and the proper jurisdiction of the court of
admiralty established as aforesaid, undef the au-.
thoritv of this state, and that the reversal of the
decree of the said George Ross,.-in that suit, was
null and void; that the jurisdiction entertained by
Richard Peters, judge of the district court aforesaid, -in the suit of, Gideon Olmstead, Artimus
White, Aquilla Rumsdale and David Clark against
Elizabeth Seijeant and Esther Waters, surviving
executrixes of David Rittenhouse, deceased, was
illegaliy usurped and exercised; that the rights of
this commonwealth, as a claimant, and as the party
substantially interested, in the said suit, though
apparent on the face of the proceedings, were unfairly passed -nver and set aside; that the said David Rittenhouse was not and ought not to have been
considered in the light of a mere stakeholder, but
as the treasurer and agent of this commonwealth,
and that the jurisdiction and decree of. the said
Richard Peters herequ were entertained and made
in manifest opposition to, and violation of, the last
amendment of the constitution of the Unitea States
erein before stated, and ought not to be supported
or 'obeyed. Therefore, '

FEBRUARY, 189.

-

Sect. 1. Be it enacted by thd senate and house of TE V. S.
P 7- .
representativesof the commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
by the
frl'generalassembly met, anditishereby enacted
authority of the same, that the governor of this corn.m6nwealth be authorized, and he is hereby authorized and required, to direct the attorney-general of
this commonwealth, to apply without delay to Elizabeth Serjeant and Esther Waters, executrixes as
aforesaid, and require them forthwith to pay into the
treasury of this commonwealth, the moneys by
them admitted to have been received in respect of
the premises, in their answer to the bill so as aforesaid filed against them, in the district court of
Pennsylvania, before Richard Peters, judge of the
said court, without regard to the decree of the said
Richard Peters herein, and in default thereof by the
said Elizabeth Serjeant'and Esther Waters, to direct.
the, said attorney-general to bring suit in the name
of the commonwealth, in the proper court of this
commonwealth, against the said Elizabeth Serjeant
and Esther Waters, for tlhe moneys-'aforesaid, and
proceed as speedily as the course of legal proceedings will permit, to enforce the recovery and payMent theteof into the treasury of this commonwealth.
Seet. 2. And be it further enactedby the authority aforesaid,that the governor of this commonwealth
be authorized and re .uired, and he is hereby authotized and required; to protect the just rights of the
state, in respect of the premises, by any further
means and measures that he may deem necessary
for the purpose, ani also to protect the persons and
properties of the said Elizabeth Serjeant and Esther
Waters 'from any process whatever issued'out of
any-federal court in consequence of their obedience
to the requisition, so as aforesaid directed to he
made to them by the attorney-general of this commonwealth, and hi the name of this commonwealth
to give to the said Elizabeth Serjeant and Esther
Waters a sufficient instrument of indemnification,
in case of their payment of the moneys aforesaid,
in compliance with this act, without suit brought

134
TnE u. S.

V.
PETERS.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

against tnem on Tne part of this commonwealth for"
the recovery of the same.
Simon Snyder, spleaker of the house of
representatives.
Robert Whitehill, speaker of the senate.
Approved, April 2, 1803.
Thomas M'Kean, governor of the
commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
That they, the defendants, being required by pro.
per authority to pay. into the treasury of the said
commonwealth the moneys admitted to have been
received as ,executrixes of David Rittenhouse, Esq.
in manner aforesaid, did, on the 19th day of July,
18Q3, transfer to the treasurer of the commonwealth
the certificates of ttock abovementioned, and on the
29th of July, 1803,- pay into the treasury of the
commonwealth the -moneys by them, received as
aforesaid, in obedience to the said act of the general
assembly, and to the requisition made under it.
The defendants respectfully' further suggest, that
the said certificates and money were received ly
their said testator, as the treasurer and officer of
the said commonwealth, as appears by the bond' of
the said David Rittenhouse, given on the receipt
thereof, filed in this court by the libellants, the 22d
of May. inst.; and that the 'same came to their
hands, as his representatives, after such receipt:
And, it being expressly insisted by the said act of
the general .asseniblv, that the said commonwealth
had and has a right~to the said certificates and money, and these defendants having, -as aforesaid,
obeyed the requisition of the said act, these defendants sugges't that the said decree of this honourable
court,-ought not to be executed, nor any process
issued .thereupon.against thEm.

FEBRUARY, 1809.

135*

The- defendants -respectfully further suggest that Taz U.
U
.
the said decree of this honourable court was pronounced, so far as respects. the claims, rights and
interests of the said commonwealth of Pennsyl"
vania, exparte, and without jurisdiction.
Ybhn Serjeant, attorneyjfor dfendants.
After this suggestion,. nothing appears, to have
been done until- the application to this court at
Feblruarv term, 1808, when the motion was made
for a rule on the judge to show -cause why a mandamus should not. issue commanding him to issue
an-attahmenti or-other proper process, to enforce
obedience to his sentence,- as before mentioned.
At this -term, Rodney, (attorney-general,) Lewis,
and F. S. -Key, of- counsel for Olmstead and others,
submitted the return of the mandamus to the consideration of the court- without argument.
February 20.
MARSHALL,' Ch.
cofirt as follows: -

J.

delivered the opinion of the

With great attention, and with serious concern,
the court has considefed the return made by thejudge for the district of Pennsylvania to ,the mandamus directing him to execupe the senience pronounced by him in -the case, of Gideon Olmstead and
athirs'v. RiitenhousesExecutrixes,or to show cause
for not so doing.' The cause shown is an"act of th6
legislature of Pennsylania,- passed sdbseciuent to.
the rendition of his. senterce. This act authorizds
and requires the governor to demand, for the use of
the state of PNnnsylvania, the money which -had
be~n decreed to Gideon Olmstead and others; and
which was in the hands of the 6xecutrixes of David
Rittenhouse; and, in default of payment, to direct
the attorney-general to institute a-suit for-the ie.covery. thereof. 'I his act further authoizes and.
requires the-governor to use any further means he

SUPREME COURT U. Si

136
THPV U1. S.
PETiRs.

maythink necessaryI 'for the protection of what it
denominates :1the just rights of the state," and also
~ to protect the persons and- properties of the said
executrixes of David Rittenhouse, deceased, against
any 'process whatever, issued out of any federal
court in consequence of their obedience to the requisition of the said act.
If the -legislatures of the several states may, at
will, annul the judgments of the courts of the
United States, and destroy the rights acquired under those judgments,'the constitution itself becomesa soiemn mockery; and- the nation is deprived of
the means of enforcing its laws by the instrtimentalitv of its own tribuna1s. So fatal a result must be
deprecated by all; and the people of Pennsylvania,
not less than the -citizens of every other state, must
feel a deep interest in resisting principles so. destructive of the union, and in averting consequences so
fatal to themselves.
The act in question does not, in terms, assert the
universal right of the state to interpose in every case.
whatever; but assigns, as a motive for its.interposition in this particular case, that the sdntence, the
execution of which it prohibits, was rendere& -in ka
cc use over' which the federal courts 'have no juridiction.
If the ultimate right to determine the jurisdiction
of the courts of'the union is placed by the constitution in the several state legislatures, then this act
concludes the subject; but if that- power necessarily
resides in the supreme judicial tribunal of the nation,
then the jurisdiction of the district court of Pennsylvania, over the case in which that'jurisdiction 'was
exercised, ought to be most deliberately examined;
Pennsylvania, With whatever respect
and the 'ct
it may be considered, cannot be permitted to prejudice the question.
-of

In the early part of the war between the United
States and':Great Britain, Gideon Olmstead and

FEBRUARt, 1809..

137

others, citizens of Connecticut, who- say. they had
been carried to Jamaica as prisoners, were employed as part of the crew of the stoop Active, bound
from Jamaica to New-York, and laden with a cargo
for the use of the British army in that place. Oh
the voyage they seized the vessel, confined the captain, and sailed for Egg Harbour. In sight of that
place, the Active was captured by the Convention,
an armed ship belonging to the state of Pennsylvania, 'brought into port, libelled and condemned as
'prize to the captors. From this sentence Gideon
Olmstead and others, who claimed the vessel and
cargo, appealed to 'the court of appeals established
by congress, by which .tribunal the senten'ce of condemnation was reversed, the Active and her cargo
condemned as prize to the claimants, and process
was directed to issue out of the court of. admiralty,
.commanding the marshal of that court to sell the
said vessel and cargo, and to pay 'the net proceeds
to the claimants.
The mandate.of the appellate court was produced
in the inferior court, the judge of which admitted
the general jurisdiction of the couit established b'y
congress, ab an appellate cotirt, but denied its power
to control the*verdict of a jury whicfi 'had been rendered in favour et the captors, the officers and crew
of the Convention; and therefore refused obedieie
to the mandate: 'but directed the marshal to make
the sale, and, after deducting charges, to bring the
residue'of the money into court, subject to its future
order.
The, claimants then alplied to the judges- of aipeals, for an injunction to prohibit the marshal froni,
payiing the money, arising from 'the sales,'intto the
court of admiralty; which was awarded, and s rved
upon him: in contempt of which, on 'the 4th of
January, 1778, he paid the money to th judge, who
acknowledged the receipt thereof at the foot of the
marshal's return.
On the 1st of May, 1799, George Ross, the judge
Vol. %r.

S

THa U. 5'

-,'V.
PETEILS.

SUPRJSME COURiT U. S.
138
'a U. S. .of the court of admiralty, delivered to David Rito
PTE TS. tenhouse, who was then treasurer of the state of
~ Pennsylvania, the sum of 11,4961. 9s. 9d. in loahoffice' certificates; 'which was the proportion of the
prize money to..which that state would have been entitled, had the sentence of the courwf admiralty rdmained in force. On the same day, David. Wgittenhoude executed a bond of indemnity to George Ross,
in which, after reciting that the money -was paid to
him for the use of the state of Pennsylvania, he
binds himself to repay the same, should the said
George' Ross be thereafter comfelled, by due
course of law, to pay that sum according to the decree of the court of appeals.

These loan-office certificates were in the name ot
Matthew Clarkson, who was marshal of the court
of admiralty, and were dated the 6th of INovember,
1778; *Indents were issued on them' to David
Rittenhouse, and the whole principal and interest
were afterwards funded by him, in his own name,
under the act of congress making provision for the
debt of the United States.
Among the papers of David Rittenhouse was a
memorandum, made by himself at the foot of a list
of the certificates mentioned above, in these words :
" Note. The .bove certificates will be the property
of the state of Pennsylvania, when the state releases
me from the bond I gave in 1778, to indemnify
George 'Ross, Esq. judge of the admiralty, -for paying the 50 original certificates into the. treasury, as
thd'state's share of the prize."

The state did not release David Rittenhouse fro i
the lVond mentioned in. this memorandum. These certificates remained in (he'private possession of David
lRitteihouse, who drcw the interest on them during
his life-, and after his 'death they remained in possession of his representatives; against whom the libel
in this case was filed, for the purpose of carrying
into execution the decree of the court of appeals.

FEBRUARY 1809.

19

-While this suit was depending, the state of Penn- TiE U. S..
sylvania forbore to assert its title, and, in January, pv-.
1803, the court decreed in favour of the libellants;

soon itfter which, the legislature passed the act which
has'been stated.
It is contended that the federal courts were deprived of jurisdiction, in this cause, by that amendment of the constitution which exempts states from
being sued in those courts by individuals. This
amendment ddclares, "that .the judicial power of
the United States shall not be construed to extend
to any suit, in law or equity,' commenced or pt'osecuted against one of thv United States by citizens
f another state, or by citizens or subjects of any
foreign state."
The right of a state to assert, as plaintiffs any interest it may have in a subject, which forms the
matter of controversy, between individuals, in one
of the courts of the United States, is not affected by
this amendment; 'nor*-can it be so construed as ..to
oust the court of its jurisdiction, should such claim
be suggested. ' The amendment- simply provides,
that no suit shall be commenced or prosecuted
against a state. The state cannot be made a defendant to a suit brought by' an ihdividual; but it remains the duty of the courts of the Unite4 States
to decide all cases brought before them by citizens of
one state against citizens of a different state, where
a state. is not necessarily a defenaant, In this case,
the suit *as not instituted against the state or its
treasurer, but against the executrixes of David Rittenhouse, for the proceeds of a-vessel condemned 'ifx
the court of adtniralty, which were admitted to be'
-in their possession. .If these proceeds had been the
actual 1r6perty of Pennsylvania, however wrongfully acquired, the disclosure of that fact would have
presented a ease on which it was' unnecessary to
give an opinion; but it certainly can never be alleged, that a mere suggestion of title in a state to
property, in possession of an individual, must arrest
the proceedings of the court, and' prevent their.

_V_";

140

.SUPREME COURT U. S.

THE V.U. S. loohing into tme suggestion, and exniining the vaP.Tzas.

lidity of the title.
If the suggestion in this case be examined, it is
-deemed perfectly clear that no title whatever-to
the certifcates in.-question was vested in the state of
Pennsylvani
By the highest judicial-authority of the nation it
has been long since decided, that'the court of ap-peals erected by,congress had full authbrity ta revise and correct the sentences of the courts of admiralty of the several states,.in prize catises. That
question, therefore, is at rest. Consequently, the
decision of -the court of appeals in this case annulled the sentence of the courtof admiralty~atid extin-.
guished the interest of the state of Pennsylvania in
the Active and her.cargo, which was acquired by that'
sentence. The full right to that property was immediately vested in the claimants, who might rightfully pursue it, into whosesoever hands it might come.
These certificates,' in the hadds. first, of Matthew
"Clarkson, the marshal, and afterwards of. George
Ross, the judge, of the court of admiralty, were the
al golute property'of the claimants. Nor did they
change their chuxacter on coming into the possession
of David Rittenhouse.
-Althoughi Mr. Rittenhouse was treasurer of the
state of Pennsylvania, and the bond of indemnity
which he executed states the money to have b.den
paid to him for the use. of-the state of Pennsylvainia, it is apparent that he hld them in his own
right, until he shbuld be-completely indemnified by
the state. 'The evidence to this point is conclusive.
'I he original certificates do not appear to'have been
deposited in the state treasury, to have been designated in any manner as the -property of the state,
or to have been delivered over to the successor of
David Rittenhouse, They remained in his possession. The indents, issued upon them for interest,
were drawn by David Rittenhouse, and preserved
When funded as
with the original certificates.

FEBRUARY, m186.

141

part of the debt of the United States, they were TuE 'U. 8.
funded by David Rittenhouse, and the interest was

drawn by him. The 'note made'by himself at the
foot of the list, jvhich he preserved, as explanatory
of the whole transaction, demonstrates that he held
the certificixtes'as security against the bond he had.
executed to George Ross; 'and that bond was obligatory, not on 'the state of Pennsylvania, but on
David Rittenhouse, in his private capacity.
These circumstances demonstrate, beyond the
possibility of doubt, that the property, which represented the Active'and her cargo, was.-.( possession,
noi of the state of Pennsylvania, but of David Rit* tenhouse as an individual; after whose-death it passed, like other property, to his representatives.
Since, then, the state of Pennsylvania had neither
possession of, nor right to,'the property on which
the sentence of the district court was pronounced,
and since.the suit was neither commenced nor prosecuted against that state, there remains no pretext
fpr the allegatiofi that the-case is within that amendment of the constitution which has been cited; and,
consequently, the state of Pennsylvania can possess
no constitutional right -to resist the legal process
which may be;directed in this cause.
It-will be readily conceived that the order which
this court is -enjoined to make by the high obligations of duty and of law, is not made without extreme regret at the necessity which has induced the
application. But it is a olenin duty, and therefore
must be performed. A peremptory mandamus muwt
be awardrd.

PZTERS.

