FEBRUARY, 18o9.

19

stated, and that it is not necessary that any of the
That the
items should come within the five years.
replication was good, and not repugnint to the declaration ; and that the rejoinder was bad.

MANDE,

VILLE
V.

Wmso..

Judgment affirmed with costs.:

FAIRFAX'S EXECUTOR v. ANN FAIRFAX.

Upon the issu.
ERROR to the circuit court for the district of
ofof phene a&.
ih
Columbia, sitting at A.lexandria, ii an action Om ienrav
assumpsit brought by the defendant in error against jury must find
specially the
the plaintiff in error, as executor.
' amount of as.

sets

in

the

Upon the issues.of non assumpsit and plene ad- hainds of the
*tb,
ministravit, the jury found a general verdict, which e'.,Z"c"
court cannot
judgwas recorded in this form: " We 'of the jury find rtender
the issues for the plaintiff, and assess the damages nlent upon the
If the -decbend.
"" verdict..
to two hundred and twenty dollars and ninety-five
ant below inthe
cents." Upon which verdict the judgment of
court was "that the plaintiff recover against the termniries ii,
ter tile ndjutgbedefendant her damages aforesaid in form aforesaid
en
sui
re the serst
her
about
assessed, and also her'costs by her
of the writ
in this behalf expended, to be levied of the goods and ""
of error, the
chattels of the said Bryan Fairfax, deceased, at the sei.vice of the
time of his death, in the hands of the said defendant et'tion ']lion
to be administered, if so much, &c. but if he hath sufciLb
not so much, then the costs aforesaid to be levied of
the proper goods and chattels of the said defendant;
and the said defendant in mercy," &c.The error relied upon bythe plaintiff in error was,
that the jury had not found the amount of assets in
his hands to be administered.
&wann, for the plaintiff in erroi, having cited Esp.
263. and the case of" footh's Executors v.
Armstrong, 2 Mash. 301., was stopped by the court,
who requested to hear Mr. E. 7-. Lee on the otheside.
N. P.

SUPREME COIOfRt U. S.
FAnRFAk'S

Ex'a

-

A... Zee, contra.

V.

PAI

rAx.

There 'was no necessity for the jury to find spa-

~ cially the ainount of the assets, for if ever so small
.asum had been found, -the judgment would have
.been the same as'if assets had been found to the
whole amount of the plaintiff's claim. The'sum
found by the jury would not alter the judgment. It
would still have been for the whole debt de bonis
testatoris si, &c. and si non, then the costs de bonis
propriis.
But here the jury-have in substance found that
the,defenddnt had'assets more thn sufficient to satis4ythe debt due to the plaintiff, for thAt is the allegatibn of the plaintiff.in her replicationi-and the jury
have found the issue for the plaintiff upon that replication.
It is not more necessary to' find. specially upon
'this issue than upon non assumpsit or nil debet.
There is a difference between this case and that
of- Booths Executors v.. Armstrong, 2 Wash. 301.,
for there .the fitiding was not, as here, generally, " we
find the issuesfor the plaintf;"but " zve findfor the
plaintilf the debt in' the declarationmentioned, and one
penny damages." The finding there was special,
and could not be construed to be a finding of the
matter of the-plhintiff's replication as the finding in
the present case may and ought to be.
The cases cited to show that the amount of assets
-found could not alter. the judgment 3vere,-8 Co.' 34.
M ary Shipley's case. 6ro. Eliz. 592. Waterhouse v.
W-oodstreet. Styles, 38. Gawdy v. Ing-ham. _Freem.
351. Oxendan v. 'Hobdy. Bro. Execution, p. 34..p.
82. Godbolt; 178. Newman v. Babington. Cr,,. Car.
373; Dorchester v.,Webb. Lex Test, 414.
P'eb~rswry "21.
MVIARSHALL, Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the
court to the following effect -

FEBRUARY, 18o9.

The verdict ought to-have found the amount of the
assets in the hands of the defendant to be admihistered.
The cases cited to show that the judgment must
be for the whole sum, if the verdict find any assets,
have been o'v'erruled. This is declared by Lord
.Mansfleld,.in a case cited.ift Gwillitn's edition of Ba'c.
Abr. and the law is now well understood to be, that
the executor is only liible for the am6unt of assets
found' by the jury. In Virginia the law has been so
settled;.
The case cited from 2 Wash. Rep.
is precisely-in point. The counsel for the defendant in error attempted to show, a distinction aria
sing from the difference of form in --which the verdicts were rendered. But the twvo veiaicts appear
to the^court to-be precisely alike ini
substiince.'
The defendant in error relies 'dntheb form. of. the
issue. - She contends that as the"replicafion alleges
that the defendant has assets more than. suffint-to
satisfy the debt, he finding of that issue ,for "the
plaintiff belowin-effect finding that the. defendant has asset ii-re.than sufficient to satisfy-the debt;
and if so, it is wholly immaterial whatitle real
amount of assets -is. But if this were- "theissue,
and the demand were 500 dollars, if thtijury should
find that the defendant had assets to the amountbf
"499'dollars, the judgment must. be for the defend,
ant.
But the law i not so. An executor is liable for
the amount of assets in his hands, and not .more.
The issue really is, whethei the defendant has any,
and what amount of assets'in his harids.
Judgment reversed.*
* Vide, 8 T. B. 688, 680. Harrison v, Beecles.
.B.3. Iee had previously moved this court to quash the writ of erre, because the eitati6n was not served on ,Aq'Fairfax, the defenudaht

FAinrAXes

Ex'
FAX.

