262-

SUPREME COURT U. S.

HEPB URN
V.
AULD.

~v~-HEPBURN

and DUNDAS, jdaintiff' in error,
COLIN AULD, drj'ndwzia in error;

..

and
HEPBURN

and DUNDAS, afiPelants, *r. COLIN
AULD, appellee.

THE first of these cases was a writ of error to the
ve.eralty
ajudgment of thq circuit court of the district of Cotded Of par- lumbia, in an action of debt at common law brought
titiOn may be
presumed.
by Auld, agent and attorney in fact for Dunlop, &
In may
equity,
Ilso
be Co. against Hepburn and Dundas for 45,000 doll'rs,
time
dilensed ,ith the penalty of the same articles of agreement which
ir it be not of are recited in the case of Hepburn and Dundas v.
'Ihe essence of A
321.
.he contract. Auld, ante, vol. 1.p. 321.
Afer a long
Possession
I

A

vendor

Theescodcss
second of these cases was annfoappeal from a
tion of a con- decree of the same court dismissing the bill in equitract for the ty brought by Hepburn and Dundas against Colin
sole oflaud, if
he is able to Auld, to compel him to accept the land, and pay
give a good ti the difference between the agreed value of the land
may compel a

specifie execu-

tie at the time

,:l"
the decree, and the award.
:iithough
he
handnot R g-pod
iitleattgetime

when, by the
con tact, the
h3iid ought to
]ave
been con%eved.

The questions in the two cases being substantially
the same, they were heard and argued together.

The breaches assigned in the declaration, in the
ilut a court action of debt by Auld were, that Hepburn and Dunof equiy will
das did not, on the 2d of January," 1800, pay the
uot compel a amount of the award in cash, nor bills of exchange,
specific
perbtLnaice un- and did not on that day assign and transfer to
less tLexendor Auld, the contract of Graham, with full powers, &c.
can make a
good title to all
the land contracted to be
sold.

Hepburn and Dundas plead6d a tender of the
assignment of Grahan's contract in three different
pleas, the pleadings upon which ended in demurrers.
The first raised the' question whether Auld was
obliged to accept a deed of assignment, the preamble
of which stated a part of the consideration of the
assignment to be " a full acquittance and discharge

FEBRUARY, 1809.

263

of all the .claims and demands of the said' John HnPu"
Dunlop & Co. against them being made and exAULM.
ecuted by the said. Colin Auld." "irhe other two
demurrers brought into view the title of Hepburn
and Dundas to the land sold to Graham.
The bill of Hepburn and D undas alleges that te
agreement by Auld to accept an assignment of Graham's contract towards- the discharge of the debt
due from them to Dunlop & Co. and to give an
acquittance and discharge of that debt, and of all
derhands, was the inducement for them to submit the
accounts to arbitration. It also states the acts and
letters of Auld subsequent to the tender, to show
that he considered himself bound to accept the assignment. That on the 27th of June, 1801, after
recovering judgment in ejectment against Graham's
heirs, Hepburn and Dundas offered to make him
a deed for the land, but he refused to accept it.
The answer of Auld denies that he was bound to
accept an assignment of Graham's contract which
should bind him to give an acquittance and discharge
of all demands of Dunlop & Co. against Hepburn
and Dundas. He endeavours to explain his conduct.
and letters subsequent to the tender by saying that
he was induced to do it by the representations of
Hepburn and Dundas that it was necessary, and that
the money due to them by Graham might be sooner
recovered, or raised, by salq of the land, than by
any contest at law relative to the transaction of the
2d of.January, 1800. He denies that he ever considered the tender as good, but was willing to cooperate with them in bringing to an end the suit
with Graham, until which time it would be doubtful
whether a sufficient title in fee-simple could be obtained from them.
He avers that the compromise made with Graham's
heirs was without his consent, and may be set aside
when they come of age.
He says the offer of a deed on the 207th of June,
1801, was after he had brought suit against them

264
Hrnnx

v.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

upon the award, and when it was apparent that their
title was bad, or at all events doubtful.
In an amended answer, he stateq that he had requested them to exhibit to him their title papers,
which they refu.sed to do ; and requires that they
should produce them in court. Ho avers his belief that their title is defective.
Hepburn and Dundas filed a supplepiental bill
which states their title. It avers possession ever
sinte 1773, and refers to certain title papers; they
say that they verily believe their title to be good, and
never heard a dliibt till long after the tender of the
assignment; that as sooff as the objections were
made known they took pains to remove them, and
have lately obtained deeds of confirmation from the
surviving patentees. That the title of Sarah,one of
the co-devisees of 'ohn West, afterher death in 1795,
descended upon her brothers Thomas, 7ohn and
Hug-h, and her -sister Catharine, and that Yohn,
Hugh, and Catharinehave lately confirmed their
title, and refer to the deeds ; and they suppose that
Thomas had passed all his title to Sarah's part by a
deed executed before her death.
The title which they show in their supplemental
bill is as follows, viz.
The six thousand acres were included in a patent
for 51,302 acres f land, granted on the 15th of
December, 1772, by the State of Virginia to George
Muse, Adam Stephen, Andrew Lewis, Peter Hog,
John West, John Polson, and Andrew Waggoner.
This tract of 51,302 acrcs was in 1773 divided between the patentees who have occupied in severalty
ever since. One of the shares containing 6,000 acres,
was allotted to John West, who died seised thereof,
and devised all his Ohio lands to be equally divided
among his children Thomas, John, Hugh, Catharine,
Sarah and Francina, excepting that Hugh was to
have 1,000 acres more than any of ihe other children.
The, testator had but two tracts on the waters of th.

'FEBRUARY, 1809.

265

Ohio, viz. that of 6,000 acres on the banks of the
Ohio, and one of 1,400 acres on Pokitallico creek;
The devisees made a partition among themselves;
Francina's one thousand acres were allotted to her
out of the 1,400 acres on Pokitallico creek, and she,
and. those claiming under her, have ever since held
and enjoyed the same exclusively.
The tract of 6,000 was divided between the others;
'Hugh having 2,000, and the other four having 1,000
each.
Thomas, by deed of 20th of May, 1-788, conveyed
'his 1,000" acres to Hepburn and Dundas.
Vohn, by deed of 21st of February, 1790, also,
conveyed his 1,000 'acres, in which deed Thomas
was a party.
Hugh, also, by deed of 24th of April, 1788, conveyed his 2,000 acres.
Catharineintermarried with Baldwin Dade, who,
with her and Thomas West, by deed of 20th of June,
1788, conveyed to Hepburn and Dundas her 1,000.
acres.
Sarah intermarried with John Bronaugh, who,
with her and Thomas West, conveyed to Hepburn
and Dundas her 1,000 acres, by deed of 21st of February, 1790.
-Thomas,, also, by deed of 25th of April, 1'788,
quitclaimed to Hepburn and Dundas the 2,000 acres
conveyed by .Hugh.
By. virtue of these deeds Hepburn and Dundas
aver that they were seised of th6 6,000 acres, and so
continued seised and possessed until thd contract with
Graham.
They then proceed to 'answer some objections
to. their title which had been suggested by Auld.
Vol. V.

LI

HzPBuax

266
XEinunAuT.v.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

They say that be had objected that the original, patentees were joint-tenaplts, and that itdoes not ap~ pear that partition %as 'made among them by deed.
To this they answer, first, that after such a lapse of
time a deed ought t6 be presumed, And, secondly, that
upon, inquiry they found that George Aiume, Andrew
Lewis, and Peter Hog died before 1787; that Adam
Sveph/en died since 1787, and Andrew Waggoner
and Jfohn Poison were.'still alive, who made deeds of
confirmation to Hepburn and Dundas. That they also
obtained a like deed from thd residuary dev;isee of
Adam Stephen.
They also state that Auld had objected, that the parti-

tion letween the devisees of Yohn Westnoti being by
deed, was not valid; and that Prancina, although
she had consented to take her th6usand acres .6n
Pokitallkco creeh, might yet claim a share of the
6,000 acres.
T-i this they answer, that a parol partition among
the devisees was valid.
They state that it. was- further objected by 4uld,
that .5"a-ah Bronaugh had never dujly conveyed her
f ,000 acres t6 Hepburn and: Dindas, and that she
was not privily ezamined according to the laws of
Virginia.
To this they answer, that they believ.e she was'
privily, examined, but 'tie commission is' lost'or
inislaid-so.that they cannot fifnd, it. And further

that Sarahi Bronauga died in" 1795," without issue ;

and Francinag, who had intermarried with "Charlea
Turner, died without issue in 1796, and her husband
in 1802, by which deaths the interest of those ladies
:in the 6,000 acres, 'if any they had, deIvolved ipon
their brotheks Thomas, ohh, and- Hug , and their
sister Catharine Dade, whereupon Hepburn -4nd
DPundas .6btaihgd frdm -John and .Hugh, and Bald.
win Dade and Cathajine Dide, 'deeds of confirmation as to the shares,of Sarah and Francina. They
did not get such a deed from Thomas=, because he

267

FEBRUARY, 1809.

had before conveyed to them his interest in those -IPButh
lands.
AumD.
.Auld's answer to th.e supplemental bill, denies
that any division ever took place between the devisees'of John West, un4er his will, and avers -that
Francina always refused to sell her interest in-the
Ohio lands to Hepburn and Dundas, and that it was
settled upon her husband Charles Turner, who died
leavitig- two children by a second marriage.
That the interest of Sarah Bronaugh never passed
from her to Hepburn and Dundas, for want of her
privy examination.
That the deeds from Hugh West and Thomas
We st, were not recorded within the eight months,
so as. to be valid against creditors or subsequent purchaiers without notice. That Thomas was embarrassed in his circumstances for many years previous
to his death, 'and there are still debts due from him:
by bonds and judgments, which bind any lands which
descended to him from his sisters Sarah and Francina.
Swann and P. B. Key, for the appellants.

B. Y. Lee and C. Lee, for the appellee.
On the part of the appellants, it was

ontendjad,

1. That Hepburn and Dundas had done every thing
on theii" part necessary to entitle them to a specific
execution of the agreement, and to compel Auld to
accept the land and give a release of all demands of
-Dunlop & Co. against them.
That they were entitled to such a release upot
making the assignment of Graham's contract.
Upon this point the argument took nearly the
.same course as in the" case between the same'parties, ante, vol. 1. p. 324.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

268
Harnvnix
AULD.

They further attempted to show, from the evideuce, that it was the intention of the parties that
such a release should be given in case of the assignment of Graham's contract, and that instructions to
that effect were given to the scrivener who drew the
articles of agreement. In support of their right to
prove those facts by parol evidence, they cited 1
Fonh. 188. 2 Atr. 203.. 3 Atl. 388. 1 Ves. jui.
456.
2. That it was not necessary that Hepburn and
Dundas should have had a cqmplete legal title in feesimple at the time of the agreement, nor at the
time of the tender of the assignment of Graham's
contract.' But it is sufficient to entitle them to a
specific execution of the agreement if they can now
give a good tide. Sugden's Law of Vendors, 249,
250.

Where time is not of the essence of the contract,
the lapse of time is no bar to a specific execution.
I Atek 12. Sug. 246. 248. 2 P. Wnzs. 630. Long.
.fordv. Pitt. 2 Pbw. 266. Newland, 230. 236. 238.
241.
Even if in this case time were material, Auld ha.
waived it by his subsequent conduct. He never 61jected on account of defect of title. He never
asked for the title papers till 1804, nor has the defect of title caused any delay- The title was never
questioned until March, 1805, long after the present
bill was filed.
The title is now complete. The only question
whi'h can possibly be raised is as to any supposed.
interest which may have descended from Sarah
Bronaugh and Francina Turner, upon Thomas
West. But Thomas West, by joining in the deed
from Mrs. Bronaugh, as well as by his own -deed,
has estopped himself from claiming any title. 5 Bac.
Abr. 440. 44,5. tit. Warranty.
A deed of partition between the original patentees

FEBRUA:RY. 180 .

269

ought onow to bc1 presumed after thirty-six years' pos-

session in sevekalty.
Cowp. 216, 217.

Sug. 213. 4 Term Rep. 482.

It is not necessary under the law of Virginia that
a deed of partition should be recorded.
For 'tleappellee, it was said,
That Auld is a defendant. He does not come
here to ask any thing. A court of equity'will not
decree that to be done which in equity and conscience ought not to be done. He is a mere agent.
The intention of the.parties was to pay a debt, not
to purchase' land. The agreement was that Graham's contract should -be so assigned to Auld that
he should either have the land, or the money, at his
option. In order to do that, Hepburn and Dundas
ought then to have had a good title; for Auld could
not compel Graham to pay the money, if Hepburn
and Dundas had not a good title. A uld did every
thing that he ought to have done. He offered to receive such an assignment, and to give such a receipt,
as were conformable to the agreement.
If the vendor has not a good title at the time when
the agreement is to be performed, and the vendee
brings an action at law upon the irticles, the vendor
-cannot have a decree for a sp.ecific performance, although he afterwards obtain a good title before judgment in the suit at law,
In April, 1801, Auld brought his suit at la~v upon
the articles, and, as late as 1806, Hepburn and Dundas had not a good title.
The original pateniees were joint-tenants. The
will of John West did not sever the joint-tenancy,
but all his interest vested in the survivors. They
could only sever byj deed. 2 Bl. Com. 186.
Neither joint-tenants nor tenants in common in

HEFnUijur
V.
AU.

270
umtpunu
V.
AULD.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

Virginia, could make partition by parol since the statutes for recording deeds.
That the completion of the title in Hepburii and
Dundas, after suit brought by Auld upon the articles, was too late to entitle them to a specific execution. The counsel for Auld cited Newland on Contracts, 206, 207. 227. Sugd. 90, 91. 2 Pow. 19.
37. 69. 75. 79. 221. 267. 4 Ves. jun. 849. 5 Ves.
jun. 818. 3 Atk. 388. 573. 1 Hen. & -Munf.131.
2 Bro. Ohan. Cas. 343. 1 Bro. Chan. Cas. 93. 440.
2 Pow. 14. 2 Ves. 389. Sugd. 165. 5 East, 198.
1 Wash. 14. 1 ern. 366. 1 Ves. 319. 1 .Fonb. 107.
7 Ves. 211.

Even if there be only doubts about the title, a
court of eqiiity will not compel the purchaser to
take it.
Parol testimony cannot be admitted to vary the
written agreement. 1 Ves. 319. 426. 3 Call, 139.
2 Bro. Chdn. Cas. 343. 4 Ves. jun. 849. 1, Fonb.
129.
The title as to Thomas West's part of Sarah B3ronaugh's and Francina Turner's shares of the 6,000
acres, is- clearly defective. He is'not estopped by
his deed to claim under a title which he has since
acquired.
MT1arch 14.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the
court as follows, viz.

By the agreement of the 27th of September, 1799,
the plaintiffs bound themselves, in the event of not
phying, on the 2d of January, in bills of exchange,
or money, the amount of the award to be rendered
between the parties, to assign and transfer, on that
day, to the defendant, a contract they hiad made

with Graham, by which they had sold to him a tract
of land containing 6,000 acres for the sum of 18,000
6

FEBRUARY, 1.8o9.

271

doliars, payable at differentfimes, with interest. They H-P~SRuI
AU"LD.
also bound themselves. to execute, an irrevocable
power of attorney enablin'g the defendant, in their
names, to recover the possession of the.land, or to
enforce. thb payment of the purcliase-money, at his
election.
The defendant covenanted to accept this assignment, towar&s the discharge of the award, and, if it
ihould exceed the amount thereof, to pay the excess.
On the part of the defendant if has been coniended that this assignment was to be received as
security for, and not as payment of, the debt due-to
Dunlop & Co. But on this point it is inipossible
to entertain a doubt. The contract itself is conclusive. The word f. towards" was obviously introduced
because, the award not being then made, it was uncertain whether the assignment would completely
diicharge its amount. But the words of the agreement admit'of no other construction than that it was
to be received either in part or in full payment, as
the sum awarded might be of h greater or less.
amotint than the stipulated value of the contract to
be assign~ds All the testimony connected with the
agreement of September, 1799, tends to confirm this
construction.
The next inquiry respects the transactions of the
2d of January,. 1800. - The plaintiffs insist, and -the
defendant denies, that the'tender made by Hep.
burn and Dundas on that day was a legal offer to do'
What they had covenanted'to perform..
The efficacy of the assignment itself .s not questioned ; but it is cobtended on the part of -the defendant that the instrument is vitiated by the'clause
which is - introduded into it, reciting, 'as a part of
the consideration on which it was inade, that a release of all claims and demands whatsoeverj on-Ehe
part of John Dunlop & Co. against them, had been
given.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
HavqVRN
va

The contract of September, 1.199, certainly does
not,,.i terms, stipulate for such a release; and if this
recital in the deed of assignment could possibly prejudice John Dunlop & Co. that circumstance would
unquestionably invalidate the tender. But if it
should be deemed an unimportant recital, .then the
tender is a substantial performance of the contract, so
far as it was to be performed on the 2d of January,
1800, and at least imposed on Colin Auld the duty
of preparing an unexceptionable deed, and demanding its execution.
It has already. been stated that, under the ag'eeiment of September, 1199, the assignment of Grahamis contract was to be received in paymeni, and
consequently that assignment, "accompanied with a
proper power of attorney, would discharge the
award as full, as a payment in bills of exchange or
money. Had the deed, therefore, limited its recital
to a discharge of all claims and demands under the
award, it would have been strictly correct; for to
such a discharge Hepburn and Dundas were entitled.
The deed of assignment, properly executed and received, and the power of attorney would, in law,
ha'e beefi a full payment of the award; and the subsequent"claims of John Dunlop & Co. would grow
,nut of the agreement of September, 1799.
The inquiry,- whether the general terms of the
recital affords any substantial'objection to the deed,
prOducs two queptions.
1. Could John Dunlop & Co. have had any other
clainis and demands on Hepburn and Dundas, than
were comprehended in this award?
2. Would this recital in the deed of assignment
impair those claims which grew out of the agreement?
1. The papers themselves sufficiently show that
every claim whatever of John Dunlop & Co. on
Hepburn and Dundas was settled in the award. The

FEBRUARY, 180g.

273

general complexion of the agreement 6f Septen, HEP~?l
.ULD.
her, 1799, proves this; but the particular stipulation
to give "a full receipt and discharge of all claims and demands of John Dunlop & Co. against them,"
in the event of paymentof the award being made iii
money or bills of exchange, places the subject beyond any doubt. Dunlop& Co. had no claims and
demands on Hepburn and Dundas, which were not
settled in the award.
2. Could this recital impair the rights of Dunlop
& Co. under the agreement of 1799 ?
The covenants of that agreement which were not
completely satisfied were, Ist. That Hepbuin and
Dundas would not, after e~ecuting the deed of assign,
ment, interfere with the measures which Colin Auld
might think proper to pursue for the recovery of
either the land sold to Graham, or the money due
under Graham's contract; 2d. That they would convey the said lands in fee-simple, after the termination of the suit then depending, to the person whq
should be decided to be entitled tP them.
1. The covenant not to interfere was not a present duty. The obligation it created did not come
into existence until after the execution of the deed
of assignment. It was to be a consequence of that
deed. At the time of its execution, this was not a
daim or a demand. 'Faking the Words in their most
literal sense, the covenant niot to interfere would
not, in the opinion of the court, be released by them:
but the court is also of opinion that, if this was in
any degree doubtful, these general terms would be
restrained by the manifest intent of the parties,
apparent on the face of the papers.
2. This release could not discharge the obligation to convey the lands, after the termination of
the suit with Grahami for the reasons assigned
against the foregoing objection, and for this additional reason-; the deed intended to transfer to
VOL V.

M rn

1tEPBUR
V.

AULi.

N v':

SUPREME COURT U. S.
-9.74
-Auld all the rights of Graham under the contract,
rg

t

and is so expressed ; andone of the covenants in the
contract assiguedxwasi to make a conveyance with a
general warranty of a title free from all enicum,
brances.The recitaL, then, presents no solid objection to
the deed of assignment,. because. it could not impair the rights of Dunlop & Co. Yet it is unusual and unnecessary, and had Colin Auld prepared
a- deed which was perfectly unexceptionable, and
Hepburn And Dundas had refused to execute it, this
court, although the tender might liave been good qt
lav, would probably have held them responsible for
any injury -whichmight have been sustained in consequence of such refusal.
The power of attorney, which was tendered at
the same time with the deed of assignment, appears
entirely unexceptionable.
It is, then, the opinion of the court that, on the 2d
of January, 1800, Hepburn and Dundas offered to do
every thing which it was at that time incumbent on
them to.do ; and-that the tender made on that day,
with the refusal of that tender, do in law amount to
' performance, so-far as to place Hepburn and Dundas in the same situation, with regard to.the claims
of. Dunlop. & Co. under the award, as if Colin
Auld ha1 accepted the deed. This, however, did
not discharge them from the duty of executing a
proper deed when required, nor from the duty of
making conveyances for the land which was the
subject of the agreement of September;' 1799.
If a. doubt existed on this point, the subsequent
conduct of Colin Auld would, in a court 6f equity,
amount to a waiver of the day, so far as respects the
tender of the deed, and a consent to accept such
deed at an after day within a reasonable time.
The subsequent demand of a deed by Colin Auld,
when he tendered the money which was due op ac-

FEBRUARY, 1809.

275

.count of the excess of value id the estimated price
to John
•
. Dunlop
of the land over the sum awarded

& Co. was made in a manner, and- under circumstances, which are not deemed reasonable. Hepburn
and Dundas had a right to. consider and to take
counsel on the deed they were required to execute ;and although their delay'was unnecessarily great, yet
the offer they made might have been acceded to. In
fact, they might reasonably insist on leaving the
transaction on the ground on which it was placed
by the contract of September, 1799, which would
have been done in a manner free from all exception by executing such a deed as that tendered on
the 2d of January, 1800, after striking out thatpart
I,
of the recital which respected the release.
The interference of Hepburn and Dundas, in accommodating the suit with Graham, is also urged as
an objection to their conduct. They had certainly
no right to interfere %iithoutthe consent of Colin
Auld. But when the correspondence is inspected,
and it is perceived that they interfered only to effect the object he had himself desired, and which he
had avowed his own inability to effect without their
consent, the interference must be considered as innocent in point of intention, and unproductive of
injury in fact.
The court, then, perceive nothing in the conduct
of the plaintiffs, up to the decision of the suit with
Graham, which ought to defeat their right to demand a specific performance of this contract. Could.
they at that time have conveyed a good title, Colin
Auld ought to have accepted it.
It is alleged that the title, sold by the heirs of
West to Hepburn and Dundas, was not a title to
6,000 acres of land in severalty, but an undivided
interest in a much larger tract, and that, as this
purchase was made, not for the purpose of acquiring an estate, but for the purpose of immediately selling and paying a debt which Auld
was authorized to collect, the time of executing the
contract i3 very material.

HUPnua
A v.
ULD.

76 ,
BW~

.u

SUPREME couT

i. S.

It is not to be denied that circumstances, ndiy

-eder the time material; and the court does.ndt
~ decide that this case is not of' that description. But
the niajority of tle' court -is of opinion, that -the
astate is th be considered gs an estate held in severilty..
That a 6omplete partition -as niade bkr an agreeifient, binding on all the parties who were interestWd, is in full proof. This partition would unquestionably haiVe been protected in equity, and the majoity of the court conceive that after such a lapse
Of time, ahd such a lofig separate possession, a deed
of partitlin ought to be re~umed; and that the
court, in which the verdict in the ejectment against
Graham was fotmd, might so have directed the jury.

it remains, thenj only to inquire whether Hepburn and Dundas hold a title under Wes, which
is so free from exception that thb defendant ought.
to bb decreed to take it.
Lohg ptevious to- the coniract.'vith Colin Auld,
Hepburn and Dundas had obtained deeds from all
the devisees of John West, jun. who were entitled
to undivided parts of the 6,000 acres lying on the
Ohio. But the deeds from Thomas West, and
Hugh West, were not recorded, and the privy examinatibn of M-a. Bronaugh, one bf the devisees,
does not appear. By her deed, therefore, nothing
passed, and the deeds of Thomas and Hugh West
kvere liable to very serious objections.
Had Colin Auld refused to receive a conveyance
Frofti Hepburn and Dundas after thetermination of
Graham's suit, because they were unable to make a
good titre, the objection would certainly have been
entitled to very serious consideration. But his rejecion of the conveyance then offered was not induced by any defect in the title. He previously
determined not to receive a conveyance, because
Graham's contract had not been assigned in such
manner as he c6nceived to be a full execution of

:fEBRTARY, 1809.

§ii

ie agieement of septemnberi 1719. These omissions, then, to record the deeds of Thomas and
Rugh West, and the total want of Xitle as to M'rs.
Bronaugh's part, have produced no real inconvenience to Colin Auld. Had the title been unexceptionable, it would still have been refused; and
this contest would still have been carried on with
the same determined peiseverance- which marks the
conduct of the parties; tnder these circumstances,
it is the opinion of the majority of the court, that
this case ought to be governed by those general.
principles which regulate the conduct of a court of
chancery in decreeing a specific performance, if the
defect uf title, which existed at the time of contract, be cured before the decree.
Are Hepburn and Dtndas now able to convey a
perfect title?
Mrs. Bronaugh and Mrs. Turner, two of the
devisees of John West, jun. are dead. On the
death of Mrs. Bronaugh, her real estate descended on her brothers and sisters, who were "her coheirs. Deeds of confirmation from Hugh and John
West, and from ,Dade and wife have been obtained.
Thomas West joined in the deed from Bronaugh
and wife for the purpose of releasing his supposed
reversion; but there is no conveyance from Francina Turner.
The court -is not satisfied that Thomas West, by
uniting in the deed for the purpose of conveying his
reversionary interest, has conveyed a title which
afterwards descended on him, or has estopped himself from asserting that title. To Thomas' Wtst's
pait of Mrs. Bronaugh's 1,000 acres, then, Hepburn
and Dundas have no title.
On the death of Francina Turner, her interest
in her sister Bronaugh's estate, passed to her brothers and sister, who were her coheirs. 1 o Thomas
West's share Hepburn and Dundas have no title.

HEP33-N

AULb.

278
r{i'EnUnx
'AD

-.,LD:

SUPREME -COURT U. S.

The undivided interest of Thomas West, which
descended on him, at the death of Mrs. Bronaugh,
is 166 2-3 acres; and the undivided interest whiph
descended on him, at the death of Francina Turner,
is 41 1-3 acres; making 208 acres, to which Hepburn and Dundas have, at this time, no title.
The omission to record the deed from Thomas
West is. not cured; and this court is now to decide
whether, under these circumstances, Hepburn and
Dundas are entitled to. claim a specific performance.
Haa there been simply a deficiency of 208 acres,
the majority of -the court would have considered it
as a case for compensation ; or had the parties entitled to this land been before the court, a division
might possibly have been, directed, and comperisation for that quantity ordered : bitt, however this
might be, as persons not before the court hold this
interest, no order can be made respecting it; and it
may very much embarfass those acts for asserting
the title which -may possibly be necessary. -The
-part actually conveyed by Thomas West, too, never
having been confirmed by a deed from himself or
his heirs, properly recorded, might impose on Colin
Auld the necessity of bringing a,suit in' chancery
to perfect his title; or of being subjected to the inconveniences constantly attending the establishment
of a deed not recorded, and the risks inseparable
from 4uch a deed.
This, therefore, is thought-by -a majority of the
:ourt to be a case. not proper for a specific performance ; and the bill is to be dismnissed,
LivxNgsToi, J. expressed his non-concurrence
in the reasbning of the court, in the. latter part of
the opinion just delivered by the chief justice.
He would dismiss the bill, even -if a good title
could now be given by the complain.ants. This
court can no more dispense with punctu6ity as to
thne. in -any case, than with any other part of the

FEBRUARY, IM.

2.79

agreement. But in this particular case, time~was of
the essence of:the contract. -The object was.pay..
ment of a debt ; 'and- from the anxiety'of the defendant to resist a 'decree 'for a conveyanbe; and
the desire -f the complainants to urge it upon him,
it is to be presumel that thc 'lands have fallen in
vilue during this delay of. the title. The.-remedy
by a decree for a specific performance is a- departure from common law, and ought to- be granted
only in cases where the party who seeks it has
strictly entitled himself to it.' It is said thit by
the English authorities, the lapse of. time may be
9
J
in equity, in decreeing a specific exedisregarded
cution of a contract for land. But there is a vast
difference between contracts for land in that couintry and in this. There the lands have a known,
fixed, and stable value. Here the price is continually fluctuating and uncertain. A single day
often makes a great difference; and in almost every
case time is a very material circumstance.
He dissented also from another part of the opinion, which intimates that if this were simply a deficiency of a few hundred acres, it would be considered as a case of compensation. This part of the
opinion does not seem to be necessary, and does not
affect the present case; but this court can in no case
compel a specific performance on terms and conditions. We cannot dedree a special. execution for
part, and assess damages as to the residue.
Thia is like a contract for 5,000 bushels of wheat.
A 'tender of 4,500 would not be good; and we
cbuld not cmp.el the purchaser to take a less quantity than he contracted for. So here the contract
was for.6,000 acres. The complainants have a title
tP a part only; we could not compel the defendant to take that part, and give him damages for the
non-conveyance of the residue.
JOHNsON, J. observed, that he had perhaps taken
-a peculiar view of tbis subject, but he should be
Itn favour of decreeing a specific performance gene-

Hii.PaUan

A,,,,.

280
JI3r2DURIT
V.

A ULD.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

rally; leaving Auld to his -remedy upon the warranty
of the complainants 'for any defect of title which
might appear. Auld, perhaps, thought it would be
a good speculation, and had stipulated for a general
warranty.
He acquiesced, however, in dismissing the bill,
because he considered the judgment in the.action
at law brought byAuld against the complainants,
as equivalent to a decree for a specific execution
of the agreement, inasmuch as it prevents him from
obtaining satisfaction in any other way for the sum
awarded.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. declared the opinion of the
court, in the action at law, to be, that the tender of
the assignment of Graham's contract, and the power
of attorney, was good as pleaded, and that Auld
ought to have accepted it.

Judgment reversed.

THE UNITED STATES v. EVANS.

It is lnt a
ground tbr a

writ of error

that the judge
below refused

to refistate a

eause

nonstit,

after

ERROR to the district court for the IXentucky
district
the court below, the judge at the trial rejected
certaitq testimony which was offered by the attorney
for the United States, who thereupon took a bill
of exceptions, and became nonsuit, and afterwards,
at the same term, moved the court to set aside th&
nonsuit and grant a new trial, upon the ground that
the judge had erred in. rejecting the testimony.
But the court overruled the motion, and refused a
new trial; whereupon the attorney for the United
States sued out his writ of error.
The case was submitted by the A4torney-General
ond Rovian, without argument.

