SUPREME COURT U.

.

RXIIDDLE

•fLI..

RIDDLE & CO. v. MANDEVILLE AND
"JAMESSON.

for the district of Cothe endotsee . ERROR
to the circuit .court ..
. sitting
..
of a 1promingoinVir- tU1bia,
at'Alexandria, in a suit in chancer7,
ry.,ote,
g nh, may
r~over
the re.
a-Tbrought

by Riddle & Co. against Mandeville and

mount from a Jamesson, remote end.orsors of a promissory note,

remote endor- dated March 2, 1798, at.sixty days, for 1,500 dollars,
sor, in equity, drawn by Vincent Gray, payable tb the defendants
though not at

law.
or order, and by them enddrsdd' inblank. Upon its
Equity will face it was declared to be negotiable in the bank of
make that par.

The note so drawn and endorsed was
put into the 'hands of g broker who passed
W. Scott for .flour, which lie sold for f 200
Scott
The remote
endorsor
has dollars in cash, and paid the mnoney to Gray.
ty iirnnedfhtei Alexandrii.

by Gray
liable who is
itlimnately -la- - to
It, P.
ble at law.

the sie d,-'passed it, without his own endorsement, to M'Clenafeqe in equity chan in the purchase of flour, and M'Clenachan enpayre- dorsed it to Riddle & Co. the complainants, in,
against
m
ote en tie
oee
I

ment of ,aprecedent debt ; Gray -failed to 'pay the
imdate en- note, and was discharged under the insolvent act Of
dnreee
The defendant Virginia, upon an execution issued upon a judgment
has
a right the
to in favour of the" c6mplainants upon -the same note.
insist
eudor- "The complainants then brought a suit at law againstother that
sonc be made the defendants upon their endorsement, ajid obtained,
p~rties.
,judgment in the court below, which was reversed in
this court, upon the principle. that'an endorsee cannot maintain a suit at law against a remote endorsor
of a promissory note. I Cranch, 290 Whereupon
the'complinants brought the present bill in equity,
which was decreed to be dismissed in the court below; that court being of opinion that there was no
equity in the bill. -.From that decree the complainants appealed to this tburt.
against his

-The only facts .stated in the bill were, that Gray
made the note payable t8 the order of Mandevillo
and Jamesson, who put it in circulatipn.' "That it
was afterwards delivered and transferred, for a
vluable conbideration, to M'Clenachan, who, f 9 r a

FEBRUARY, 1809.

323

valuab!1 consideration, endorsed and traniferred it to
the complainants. That Gray. failed to lIay it, and
was discharged. from exedution under the insolvent
act, whereby. the complainants- wer, unable to re-

cover from him any part thereof; in consequence of
which the defendants became liable in equity to pay
the same, but have refused so to do.
Among the interrogatories .cout'ined in the bill,
itis asked " with'what view was the note made and
endorsed?" and whether one of the defendants .did
noti upon inquiry, declare that the note was good;
and would be punctually paid?
The defendants pleaded the judgment at law in
their favour in. a suit brought upon the same note, i,
bar of the relief in equity.
To this plea the complainants demurred, and the
court sustained the demurrer, and ruled the defendants to answer.

The answer states, that the note was endorsed by
them for the purpose of being discounted at bank for
the use of.the collector's office. in which Gray .was
the chief clerk or deputy, andhad the whole management-of the business. That the defendants refused
to endorse it until Gray promised ."to *deliver"to the
defendants, as security, their bond to the United
States, given for duties, to the. amount of 1,168 dollars,, which be never did, ind they had to ay it.
That they never received any value from any person
for their endorsement; that they never gave circulation to the note, otherwise than by endorsing it
and delivering it to Gray to be discounted at bank,.
for w7hich purpose only they endorsed it. They
deny that they- ever made any contract with any-person touching the note, and say they have no recollec.
tiott of any. conversation with any ierson respecting
the note before-it became due.
The deposition of D. W. Scott stated, that -he

gave' 200 barrels of flour for the note, but before he

RIDDLE

V.

VILLL

324
lDIDLE
tA1v.

VILLE.

SUP.EME COUrT U. 9.

concluded the bargain, he asked Jamemonw
oe of
the defendants, if the note wis good, and whr.ther
there "was iny objection to it, and informed him it
was offered to him for flor., Jlat easdn told him it
was a good note, and observed that whenever he saw
the name ofMandeville and Jamesson.on any paper
he might be sure it 'was- good. That Scott sold the
note to MIClenachan for 207 bafrels of flour, but did
n6t' endorse it, and it was expressly agreed that he
should not be answerable for it in any event.
The deposition of IV 'Clenachan stated, that before he would take the note of Scott, he informed
Jamesson that he intended to deal for-it, and inquired .whether it was an accommodation note, or a
ote. given upon a real transactiozzn. Jamesson told
him it was a real transaction note, and, not an accommodation note, and that it would be punctually'paid. The deponent further stated, that the comyplainants had reledsed'to him all claim on account
of the note, and of the debt intended to be paid by
the note ; and that he had also been discharged under the bankrupt act.
These witnesses were objected to by the defendants as interested.
.E. 7, Lee, for the plaintiffs in error.
I. The court below did right in overruling the
plea in bar.
Where, by the principles of law, a party has a
right, but the fobms. of law do not give a remedy, a
court of equity will grant relief, ,ihtf. 103. And
in some cases it has a conciurrent jurisdiction with
the courts ,of law. .Mitf. 108, lo9. 3 At. 215.
I .Fonb. 204..
2. The court below er'edin disniissing the bill.
The .plaintiffs are'entitled tp recover in equity
agaibist the detendants. it was the intention of the

FEBRUARY, 1809.

325

defendants to make themselves responsible to any 4rnrviL
person who should be the holder of the paper. Thqy M.
VLL..
intended it to be a negotiable instrument. This ap.:
pears from the note itself, which is expressly made
negotiable in the bank of Alexandria, and from
the answer of the defendants, who state tidat.they endorsed it for the purpose of being discounted at the
bank. Their endorsement was intended to give.
creditto the note. If they did not intend- to become
responsible, they were guilty of a friud. The complainants, upon the credit of the note, granted indulgence to M'Clenachan. The defendants 'were- un-.
doubtedly answerable at law to M'Clenachan. That'
liability *was a chose in action which he had a right
in equity to assign, although this court has decided
that it was not assignable at law. 1 Ath. -124. - 1
Ponb. 201. 204. 1 Term Rep. 622. In the case, of
F'olet v. Patton, at this term, this court has deiided.
that a person who eidorses merely to give credit to
the note, is liable at law to his immediate endorsee.
If the complainants had brought a suit in the name
of M'Clenachan for their use against the defendants,
a court of law would- have protected the equity -of
the complainants. 2'Skin. 6, 7. 1- Term Rep. 622.
Winch v. Keely. 4 Term Rep' 344. And if in such
a suit the defendants had a set-off against the complainants, Riddle & Co., a court of law would have
allovwed it.- 211H. Bla. .1271. Bottomly v. Broohe.
1 Term Rep. 621. If a court of law will recognise.
and protect an equitable qssignment, a fortibri will,
a court of equity. In the case of Harris v. 7ohnston, (ante, vo. 3.'p. 319.) this court sa*id that "the
holder -of a note may indontestably sue a remote endorsor in chancery, and compel payment of it."
.2oungs, contra, contended,
1. Tiat the plea in bar ought to have been sustained. Ajudgment at law against a party in an
equitable action of assumpsit, when all the facts are
susceptible of proof at law, is conclusive against the
jurjitdiction of a court of chancery, if it ever had
any. If a court of chancery and a court of. law,

596
Rapso-.
V.
VILL .

SUPREME COURT U. S.

have a concurrent jurisdiction, an election to proceed in one concludes the party- from goifig into the
other. If a person is under no'legal obligation to
,z.paymoney, a court of chancery cannot compel him,
It can only enforce" the performance of legal contracts, and where there is no contract at law, a court
of chancery*cannot make one. As no privity exists
at law between the holder and a remote endorsor,
that privity cannot be created by a court of equity.
2. That the court below was correct in dismissing
the bill.
The dontrace was usurious. A nQte for 1,500
dollars having only sixty days- to rui was sold for
1,200 dollars worth of flour.
There was no valuable consideration- flowing to
the defendants; and such a consideration alone can
make an endorsor liable even to, his immediate endot iee.
The liability of the endorsor is nbt. a 'omplete
chose in action.. A chose in action is a right of action.
3NTo right of action exists against an endorsor of a
promissory note, in Virginia, until it is ascertained
that the money cannot be recovered from the maker,
Until that time it is a mere possibility, which is fot
'the subject of assignment even in equity. The
6the
liability -of the endorsor is not assignable under
statute, and cannot be made so by a court of equity,
fn,the case of a joint obligation by principal and
surety, if the surety be discharged at law, he can
never be made liable in equity, for his equity is
equal to that of the obligee. 2 Wash. 136..Harrison
v. .Field.
The note was endorsed by the- defendants to be
discounted at bank. Gray committed'a breach of
good faith, an act oi fraud, in sending it into the
market.

FEBRUARY, 1809.

S27

The complainants cam only claim as creditors of
M1'Clenachan. But they are no longer his credit.from the debt, according
ers, having released'him
to his own deposition which.they have produced.
If it should be compared to a letter of credit, it
a particular person for a paris a letter of credit tbo
ticular purpose.- It is not'like a general letter of
credit.
,Swann and C. Lee, on the same side.
The suit at law was decided against the complainants on account of a defect of right, not for
want of a remedy at law.
The money in the hands of Gray was like any
other property in his- hands. If it had been a horse
which. Mandeville and Jamesson had transferred to
kIt'Clenachan, with warranty, and M'Clenachan had
sold the horse to the complainants, he could not
bave transferred t them the warranty of Mandeville
and jamesson. No case can be found in which a
suit ih -chancery has been maintained against a remote warrantor of personal property.
The complainants demand the whole amount
of . the note; but in equity they can claim only
what the; paid for it; and how much that was
does not appear. The endorsors must -sue each
other in succession. No case can be found wherea holder has recovered in equity against a remote
andorsor.
C. Simms, in reply,
In the case of Violet and Patton, this court has
placed the liability of an endorsor upon a much
more correctprintiple than that of privity of contract.
It was there decided, that an endorsement was equivalentto-a general letter of credit; if so, it enables
any one to recover upon it wher'-as parted with. his
property upon the faith. of it-- If A. gives a letter,

rnozLZ
Y.
MANDEVILE.

328
1UDDLE

S

IAVE-

SUPREME COQURT U. S.

of credit to C. and B. afterwards also gives a letter
of credit to C., A. is not discharged from hisliabikty
because U.- is also liable.
What was said by the chiefljustice in the case'of
Harrisv. Yohnston, cannot .b.e considered as a mere
dictum, but mubt be taken to be the deliberate
bpinion of the court, for it is the only answer giyen
to a strong argument urged by the counsel for Johnston to show that the outstanding note, was no bar
to a recoveiy upon the open account, viz. that the
defendant, being a remote endorsor, could never be
.c9mpelled. to. pay th note. The answer of the
court was, "'It is supposed that the holder of a.note
may .incontestab/ysue a remote endorsor in chancery,
and compel payment of it." And during the argument of that case, when this idea was suggested
by Mr. Jones, the chief justice said, " True; we
shall -consider"that point. I have always been of
opinion that'in such cases a suit in chancery can'be
supported;' though I do not recollect any case in
whi*ch the point has been decided." When, therefore,
the chief justice afterwards, in d'elivering tht opinion
of the court, repeats the same idea in stronger terms,
it must be supposed that the, point had been well
considered, and that he spoki the opinion of the
whole court.
March 13.
M,&RSHALL, Ch. .. delivered the opinion, oV the
court as follows:

This suit" is brought by the holder of a promissory note to recover its amount fr6m- a remote endorsor. In a suit between "the same parties, this
court had previously determnned that the plaintiff
was without remedy at law. ,Iti ow to be decided
whether he is entitled to the 'id of a c6urt of
equity.
. If,as vas stated by the counsel for the dfendants, the qustion-is, whether a court f cbhiiceiy

1FEBRUARY, 1809.

329

would cireate contracts into which individuals had
never entered, and decree th payment of money
from pe'sonl who had never undertaken to pay it,
the time. of this court has been very much misapplied indded in attending to the laborious discussion of this cause. The court would, at once, have
d&sclaimed such a power, and have terminated-so
extraordinary a controversy.

RX:IDnL
M ANVTLLE.

But the real, questions in the case are understood
to be, whether the plaintiffs,'as endorsees of a promissory note, have a right, under the laws of Virginia, to receive its amount from the endorsor on.
the insolvency of the maker; whether the defendants, as the origina-l endorsors of the note, are ultimately responsible for it; and whether equity will
decree the payment to be immediately made, by the
person ultimately responsible, to the person who' is
actually entitled to receive the money.
This note came to the hands of M'Clenachan,
endorsed in blank by Mandeville' and Jamessbn.
M'Clenachan bad a right to fill.up the endorsement.
to himself, and he has done so. !'he law, as understood in Virginia, immediately implied an uts-sunpsit from Mundeville" and Jamesson to M'Clenachan to pay him the amount of the note, if he should
use due diligence, an4 should be unable to obtain
payment from the maker. MI'Clenachan eudorsed
this note to the plaintiffs, and, by so dbizig, became.
liable to them in like manner as Mandevilld and
Jambsson were liable to him.
The maker having proved insolvent, the plaintiffs
have. a: legal right to claim payment from M'Cleia"chan, and, on making that payment, M'Clenachan
would be reinvested with all his original rights in
the note, and would be entided to demand-payment
from Mandeville and Jamesson.
If there were twenty successive.. dndorsors of a
note, this circuitous course.might be pursued; and,
VoL V.

T_

330
ArWD.U

DIANDM-

VILLE.

SUPREME COUrT.U. S.

by the time the ultimate endorsor was reached,
the value of the note would he expended in the
pursuit. This circ.umstance alone would .afford a
strong reason for enabling the holder to bring all
the endorsors into that court which could, in a
single decree, put an. end to litigation. No principle adverse to such a proceeding-is perceived. Its
aialogy to the familiar case pf a suit in chancery
by a creditor against the lega tees of his debtor is
not very remote. If an executor shall have distributed the estate of his testator, the creditor ha
an action at law against him, and he has his reme.
dy against the legatees. The creditor has io action at law against the legatees; Yet it has'never
been understood that the creditor is compelled to
resort to his legal remedy. He m ay bring-the executor and legatees both before a court of chancery,
which court w'll decree immediate payment from
those who are ultimately bound. If the executor
and his securities should be insolvent, so that a suit
at law must he unproductive, the, creditor would
have no other remedy than in equity, and his right
to the aid of that court coula not he questioned.
If doubts of his right to sue in chancery could
be entertained while the executor was solvent, -none
can exist after he had become insolvent. Yet the,
creditor would have no legal claim on the legatees, and could maintain no action at law against
them. . The right of the executor, however, may,
in a court of equity, be asserted by the- creditor, and,
-Ss the legatees would be ultimately responsible for
his debt, equity will make them immediately responsible.
In the presenf case, as in that which has been
stated, *the insolvenry of M'Clenachan furnishes
strong additional motives for 6oming into a court
of chancery. Mandeville and Jamesson are ultimately bound for this money, but the .remedy at
law is defeated. by the bankruptcy of an- intermediate endorsor. It is only a court of equity which,
can aflord a remedy;

FEBRUARY, 1809.

331

This subject may and ought to be contemplated
in still another pbint ofview. It has been repeatedly
observed that the action against the endorsor is not
given by statute. The contract on which the suit
is maintained is not expressed, but is implied from
the endorsement itself, unexplained and unaccompanied by any additional testimony.. Such a contract must, of necessity, conform to 'the general
understanding of the transaction. General opinion
certainly -attaches credit to a note, the maker of
Which is doubtful, in proportion to the credit of the
endorsors, and two -or more good endors'ors are
deemed superior to oie. But if the last endorsor
alone can be made responsible to the holder, theh the
preceding names are of no importance, and would
add nothing to the credit of the note. But this
general opinion is founded. on the general understanding of the nature of the contract. *The endorsor. is understood t6 pass to the endorseed every
right 'founded on the note which he himself posoesses. Among these is his right'against 'the prior
endorsor. This right is -founded on an implied'
contract, which is not, by law, assignable. Yet if
it ii capable of being transferred in equity, it vests,
as an equitable interest, in the holder of the note.
No reason 'is perceived .why such an interest should
not, as well, as an interest in any other chose in action, be transferible in .equity. And if it be so
transferable, equity will of course afford a remedy.
The defendant sustains no injury, for he may 'aefend
himself in equity against the holder as effectually
as he could defend himself against his immediate
assignee in a suit at law.
The case put, of the sale and delivery of a per-,
sonal thing, is not thought to be analogous to this.
The purchaser of a personal thing does not, at the
time or the contract, look beyond the vendor. He
does not trace the title. It passes by delivery.
But-suppose the vendor held it by a bill of sale con.taining a warranty of title, and should assign
that bill to his vendee; is it clear that, on. loss of
the property far defect- of title, no recourse could

Ri;PPz.
,W"
VILLE.

332

SUPREME CO6UT U. s.

R nDLu-

behad to-the warrantor'of that title?

MANDE-.

not prepared i6 answer.'this question in the affirma-

The court. is

It- is contended -that the endorsee of the n6te"
hold§ it -subjeci to. every equity" to which it was
liablein the hands of the endorsor. '
If this be admitted, it is not'tierc.eived that the
admission would, in any manner, affect this case.
It is also contemded that the plintiff can only recover what he actually paid.
-Without itidicating any opinion on this point,.the
court considerd it as very clear that the-endorsement
is prima facie evidence of having endorsed fobi full
value, and it-is incumbent on the defendant to shot
the real consideration, if-it was an inadeqn~aie on6.
Usury has been stated inthe argument, but it is
neithei alleged in the pleadings, nor,.proved by the
testimony.'
It is u rged that Mandeville and Jamesson are securities who-have received no actual value, and that
equity will not charge a security who is dischirged
at law. In Support ,of this arguiment the case of a
joint obligation is cited.
It is-true," that, inthe case of *ajoint obligation,
the court has refused to set up the bond against the.
representatives of, a security. 'But, in that case, the
law had absolutely discharged them. - In this case,
Mandeville and Jamessbn are not discharged. -They
are not released from the implied cofitract created
by the endorsement. - It is the legal remedy which
is obstructed; the right is unimpaired, iand the original obligation is in full force.
It is, then,, the opinion 'of this'court that, w-ithout
referring to the depositions .to which exceptions have
been taken, a right ekists in the- holder of a pro-.

FEBRUARY. 1809.

33a

missory -note, at least where he cannot obtain payment at law, to sue a remote endorsor in equity.

.]RrDrLn
..
vrLLL..

Certainly, in .sidch a case, the defendqtnt -ha's a
right to insist on the other endorsors being made
parties, but he has not done- so; and, in this case,
the court does" not perceive that 'M'Clenachan is a
party so material in the cause, that a decr'ee may
not piroperlIk be made without him. "
reversed, and the defendants diThe decree is"
rected to pay the amount of the note to the plaintiffs.
'The -decree of the court was as follows:

-

This cause came on to be heard on'the transcript
of. the record of the circuit court for the 'county of
Alexandria, *andwas argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,:the codrt is of opinion, that the
decree of the said circuit court, dismissing the bill
of the plaintiffs, is .erroneous, and ought to be reversed; and this court doth reverse the same; and
this'cgurt,, proceeding. tor give such decree as the
said circuit court ought to have given,. doth decree
and order, that the defendants pay to the plaintiffs
the sum of 1, 00 dollars, that being the amount of
the note in the bill mentioned, together with interest
thereon from the time the- same becaine due.'

DULANY v. HOPGKIN-

endorsor
of a promissory
ERROR 'to the circuit court for the district of The
Columbia, sitting at Alexandria, in an action of as- note -%io ensurnpsitby the endorsee of a promissory aote against dorses to give
to the
his immediate- endorsor. The notqe. was.made by credit
nl and who
lote,
iscounters~cuWellborn, on the 1st of January, i806, for-200 d
or order 120 days after redbyproperty
to Hodgkin
'payable-.
lars,
lpn
isthet
not
pledged,
date, negotiable at the bank of .Alexandria. On the liable

