14EBRUARY, 1809.

45

coilrt sothat the bank is not entitled to a trial untit

the .5econd term after issuing the .writ. The wiritis

.*,ouzd.

V.EAN,

returaable to the nexi cour'; but the offier has the
wjhole term to return it i14, and may delay it utitil
the very last moment of the session.
Adrc6.1O.
MARSLA&LL,.Ch. J. delivered the opinioil of the

court to the follqwing effect:
The writ being returnable to the court, is returna,
bie the. first day of the court, It was known to-the
legislature of Virginia that the appearate day 'for
-all process was the day after the term*, When,
therefore, they directed that a trial shoald he ha4
at:the return -term,1 they must have intended that
-this coe should be an.exception to the general rule.
Judgment .affirmea.

YEATON. v. THE BANk OF AEXANDRIA.

ERROR t( the• dircuit
court •of tile di'triet of.
bank
" "•
, Co- of Tle
Alexandri*
laImbia, in an action .o.f 'assumpsitbrought by the de- oa ,ain;.o,
fendant's in error against the plaintiff in errora
as en-

a'ftin,-a.-a

en.
tle prodorsor of a.prQmissory note for the abcommodation gaiast
dorsorofa
of It. Young, the maker.'
misanry note

The declaration contained two counts.

made negotia.
ble in -that

One upon bank,. without

suing;
the
form, and firt
the endorsement
• of. the note, in the usual
.
mfaker
Ot. prn
without any averment of the insolvency of the ma- vi,. IN itlsol,
ker, or of any steps taken to enforce payment from vent, although
him. The other was for money- had and received. thee wasore
the accommo-

The same questions arose in this case as in the atker of anth
preceding case of Tozng v. The Banh of Alexanaria, notwithstandingthatin
was 1 gilla
but the only question argued in this cause, .'
tile Virira4
whether,an endorsor of a promissory note to the bauk 'licd
coutruet
VoL. V.

SUPIEME COURT U. S.
of Alexandria, for the accommodation ofthe malier,
T vIA :, was liable in an action by the bank, until after a suit,
jujdgment and execution against the maker had pro&c.
rved fruitless, or the maker was otherwise proved to
,
of theendorsor be insolvent.
Yt ArTO

of a promissory. note,' by
tile genealun-

upon te opening of the point, MARSHALL, Ch. -.
in
thecountry, i, observed that it had been decided by this court
that he will the cases.of French v'.'The Bank of Columbia, (ante,
1 141.) and Violet v. Patton, at this terni%
pay
dii- vvolL4 4. p.
duedebt,
•f by the
circumstance of its being for the accommothe
that
geneeit ca not
e obtained dation of the maker makes no'difference. The enfi-6m the madorsor is as much liable as if he had himself received
ker.
derstanding of

Perhaps the
underzlaking of
the endorsor

the money.

of a note to.a

Y"oungs, for the plaintiff in error.

bank may be
different.
It is no all-

The general law of Virginia, upon the subject of

promissory notes, is, that the endorsor is not liable
"jectiont.atthe
endorsenment

ae. until a suit has been brought against the maker, and
judgment recovered; and the execution has proved
The consider* fruitless, or the maker is otherwise proved to be inIf there be any exception in favour of the
movhng
ation
bank solvent.
from the
to the maker bank it must be a privilege granted by its charter.
ofthe note, on The only words under which such a. privilege can be
the credit of
the endorsor, supp.osed to exist are these: "And whereas it is absocharges
and lutelv necessary that:debts due to the said bank
th~e nmkerbath
should be punctually paid, to enable the directors
endorsor,
to calculate.with certainty and precision on meeting
the demands that may be made upon them', be it enacted, that when any. person or persons indebted to
the aid bank on bonds, bills or notes, given or endorsed by therm, with an express consent in writing
that they may be negotiable at the said bank, shall
refuse or neglect to make payment at the time the
same may become due, and a suit shall be thereupon
commenced against such defaulter, and a capias ad
respondendum returned executed, or a copy left at the
usual place of residence bf such defaulter, at least ten
days before the return 'day of such writ, the court
shall" order the proceedings to be mple up, and the.
rnnse tried at the first court.
was for the

commodation
the maker.
of"

FEBRUARY, 1809.

51

But according to this act, the person to be sued YEATON
must 'be a person indebted to the bank by "endorse- T.lE B&K,
&c.
ment; and under the general law of Virginia no person is indebted by endorsement of a note until the maker be insolvent, or the plaintiff shall have failed
to obtain payment from the maker by suit, judgment,
and execution.
Swann, contra, admitted the general law -of Virginia respecting promissory nores to be as stated,
but contended that by the words of the act of incorporation, an ebdorsor of a note is to be consider¢d
as indebted to the bank upon failure to pay the note
when it becomes due. The 'preamble shows that
punctuality in payment was the object in view;
which would be entirely" defeated if the bank could
not c6mpel'payment from an endorsor until they had
pursued the maker through all the tedious delays of
the law. If the note be not paid when it becomes
due, the act calls the endorsor a defaulter;and directs
judgment to be entered up against him at the first
court thereafter.
March 10.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the
court as follows, viz.

The question in this case is, whether tWe encorsor
of a note negotiable in the bank of Alexandria, if
such enhdorsement be for accommodation, mav be
sued by the bank, before a suit shall be instituted
against the maker, if the maker be solvent.
In Virginia; the endorsor of a promissory note
was not, when the town of Alexandria was separated from that state, liable to the holder by any
express statute. He was only liable under the implied contract created by his endorsement. This
implied contract, by the general understanding of
the, country, was, that he would pay the debt, if by
due diligence it could not be obtained from the
maker. .This condition, howeyer, was not express

SUPREME COtJRT 11. S.
VEATON
V.

THE

ANK,

.

~~

ed. Yetot was just, because. itwas consistent tHth
general usage, and, therefore, was the real understanding with which such an endorsement wag made
and receiv'edBut in banks, this is probably not the usage ; and
if it be not, then the same reasbn does not exist for
annexing such a. condition to the contract created by
endorsement. If banks are,understood to receiVe
notes made negotiable with them, as subject to the
law which governs inland bills of exchange, then it
would seem reasonable, in the case of notes actually
negotiated with them, to imply, from the act of endorsement, an undertaking conformable to that
usage. If, then, the case showed that such was the
usage of the bank, and such the undersianding under
which notes were discounted, this court is not prepared to say that the undertaking created by thd
endorsement would not be so fashioned as to give
effect to the real intention of the parties,
But the incorporatifg act removes any doubt
which might otherwise exist on this'poinf
The 20th section of that act declares, "that whenever any person or persons indebted to the said
bank on bonds, bills, or notes, given or endorsed by
them, with an express consent, in writing, that they
may be negotiable at the said bank, and shall refuse
or neglect to make payment at the time the same may
become due, and, a suit shall thereupon be coiamenced, &c. judgment is to be rendered in a summary mannper.
A person, then, may becoine indebted to the bank
on a-note endjorsed by him, as well as on a note
made by hini; *and the question is, wheri" does he
become indebted. The act appears. to answdr this
question in the succeeding.member of the umtence.
The words are, " and shall refuse 6r .neglect 1Wmake. payment at the time the same may- become
due." To what antecedent does -the word 1 sam "
refer? Most 9Qviously to the words " bond, bill
or note." When the bond, bill or note becomes

PEBRUARY, 1809.

53

due, the maker --or endorsor, who shall refuse or
neglect to make payment, is within the description
of the act.. No man can be said to refuse or neglect
to make payment, before the money is demandable
from him, and till then no action can be brought.
But the.law proceeds to say, "and a suit shall
'
theretipon be commenced." The word "1thereupon"
must refer to the note, or to the circums-tances previously stated.- Give it the one meafiing or the other,
and the law obviously contemplates a suit against
the maker or endorsor, onhis"refusing or neglecting
to pay such note, when it shall becLome due. The
act then proceeds to say, that, when this'suit shall
be so commenced, the court shall render judgment
thereon in a summary way.
It is alleged that the preceding part of the section
is all recital, and cannot, , therefore, be construed to
give a tight-to sue, where that right did not before
exist: that the enacting clause gives no remedy
where ond did not.before exist;* but- substitutes a,
summary mode of proceeding, foi that more tedious
action which the previous laws had given.
It is true that the fir-4 part of this section is recital; but it describes the precise case in whichjudgment-shall be rendered in a summary way. That
precise case is, where a person indebted, by making
or endorsing a'note negotiable and negotiated in the
bank, shall iefuse or neglect to. make payment thereof, when -such note shall become due. The time
when he becomes indebted is declared to bel, when
thd note becomes due.
It is alleged that an accommodatioA endorsor cah.
no.t then become 'indebted. This distinction was
completely overruled in the case of Violet and Patton, The consideration moving from the bank to*
the maker of the note, on the credit of the endorsor,
chiirges both the maker and the endorsor. The endorsor isj in this respect, as liable, both in reason and
in law, to the claim of the bank, as if he had placed
hMs name on the face ihstead of thit back of thd note.,
judgment affirmted with costs.

YEAToq

v.
&c.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
YEATOV
R.AN,
&.

JOHNSON, J. Both the" questions,# argued in this
case, arise out of the act-of- Virginia incorporating
the bank of Alexandria.

On the point of the summary jurisdiction, I concur with my brethren, and think this opinion perfectly consistent with the decision, at the last term,
relative to the right of appeal. - I remember that my
opinion in that case was founded on the idea that
the provisions of that act, relative to the'summary
recovery of debts, was entirely a judicial regulation.
That the judicial power was unalienable from the
sovereignty of a country, and must, therefore,'in all
its modifications, remain subject to the will of succeeding legislatures. That it was, in fact, a subject
in which a peculiar, indefeasible right could not be
vested in an individual., I thought it, therefore,
from its nature, unaffected by the clause of -the act
of acceptance reserving to the b-ink its corporate
rights, and of coutse affected by the law which gives
an appeal, generally, from the courts of.this district
to the supreme court, above a certain amount. I
have no'doubt of the power of congress to deprive
thm also of their summary remedy; but it has not
yet legislated to that effect.
On the other question, I entertain a very strong
opinion in opposition to that-of the court.
The doctrine has been repeatedly sanctioned-in
this court, that, in the state of Virginia, the holder
of a promissory note cannot recover against'an endorsor without proving the inisolvency of the drawer.
But it is contended that the act, imcorporating this
bank, has placed the notes negotiable therein on a
different footing, and that an endorsor of such a
note may be sued as soon as it is dishionoured, with9ut any evidence of the insolvency of the drawer
The following are the words-of the clause, so far as
they are material to this case: " Aiid whereas it is
This ease was argued in conneetior

vith that ut"Young V. The

Bank-of Xlexandria, as one case. This opinion, therefore, applies to
liothcases.

6

FEBRUARY, 18o9.

55

absolutely necessary that debts' due to the said bank YtATO.T
should be punctually paid, to enable the directors to TV. BANK,
k,.
calculate with certainty and precision on meeting the
demands that may be m'ade upon them, be it enacted,
that whenever any person or persons indebted to Ehe
said bank on bonds, bills, or notes, given or endorsed
by them, with an express consent in writing that
they may be negotiable at the said bank, and sall
refuse or neglect to make payment at the time the
same may bedome due, and a suit shall be there:
upon commenced'against such defaultcr, and a capia.?
ad re.1pondendum returned and executed, or a copy
left at the usual place of residence of such defaulter,
at least ten days before the return day of such writ,
the court shall," &c. It then goes on and enacts,
that, in such case," the court shall ordei-the proceedings to be made tip, and the cause tried at the first
court." This bare recital, or preamble, without one enacting word, is What is supposed to have effected this
important change in the law of Virginia, relative to
the liability of an endorsor. Much stress was laid, in
the argument, upon the use of the word " indebted,"
as applied to the endorsor, the words 'negotiab. at
the said bank," and words which suIpose the commencement of a suit, as soon as a note "becomes
due." I positively deny the correctness of- maintaining any repeal or alteration in the principle of a
law, upon an implication dawn from a mere preamble or recital to an act. ]4nacting.words will undoubtedly often produce a repeal by implication, but
a recital or preamble sets forth merely the motives
or inducements of the legislator, and, whether fdunded in error or truth, serves no other purpose.thaii
to justify him to those for whom he is J.egi.liting, or,
at times, to assist in developing the :".-.ning of
doubtful enacting words. Admit the principle, that
a preamble may have the effect of enacting words,
and there is no necessity for dilating on the inextricable absurdities in which a court may be involved.
In the case before us, it is possible that the legislature may have supposed that the law of Virginia
would sanction an immediate suit against the endorsor without evidence of the drawer's insolvency;

56
YA TO"

T

Vn

c

SUPREME

OURT U. S.

but their courts of justice have decided otherwise
, and it would be'singular if an erroneous opinion,
entertained.by that body, should have all the effects
Sof a law passed by it. But there is not a word contained in this preamble which may not be fully satisfied, without producing any necessary implicatioil
agtinst the general law of Vitginia, relative to thi
,liability of the endorsor.
When the legislature speaks of a personfindebted
by endorsement, it can only be understood to speak
of one indebted according to the legal liability of an
endorsor; which is only, by the laws of-Vlrginia, in
case of the insolvency of the drawer.
When'it speaks of a consent in writing, that it
may. be negotiable at the said bank, it can only mean
what it expresses ; and- intends it for the purpose of
subjecting the individual to the summary recovery
given in such a case; for, as to his general liability
gs endorsor, such a consent was in nowise necessary ; that liability existed in its full extent without it.
And as to the supposition of the endorsor's liability to be sued when the note becomes due; this
also is strictly and literally true,'if the drawer should
then be insolvent, or (I suppose) if he should becomie
so at any ,time before the trial of the issue
Upon the whole, theretore, iE appears to me that
there is no possible difference between the liablity
of an endorsor generally, and an endorsor .of a note
negotiable in. the bank of Alexandria; that the legislature intended to make no distinction and, if *it
had expresslv declared such to be its intent, no such
change would have beefi produced, without following
up that intention with sufficient enacting words; but
that in fact, its gole object was to do that which it
professes to intend, and alone has effeeted, viz. to
give a summary remedy against all persons becoming
indebted to that bank, whenever- their, legal liabflity"
is incurred. In fact it may, with the utmost correct-

FEtBRUARY, 1801.

57

0ess, be affirmed of an Fndorsor that he is indbted, - YZATO*.
and that he may be sued when the iiote b comes due, T
&o..
-without at all interfering with the laws of Virginia
on this subject: for a thing may be debitm..in presenti, and yet no cause of action-exist against hiir.;
he may lie- under a:present obligation to pay a s4%
of money, upon some contingency or future 'event.
And, with regard to his liability to be suedwvcien t14
note becomes due, it may be very correctly affirmed
that it is not due from him until the insolveny .of
the drawer cat be "shown. As to the "dawer,.th
note is due when it is made payable ; but the. princ-•
pies of the Virginia law add a contingency to. the
liability of the endorsor, so-that, in facbt his.undertaking is collateral and contingent, and the amount,
is not legally due from him until after the day 'of
payment, and provided the drawer should prove insolvent.

THE HOPE INSURANCE COMPANY OF PRO;
VIDENCE v. BOARDMAN ET AL.

ERROR to the circuit court for Tme district of'A corporaton
Rhode b.lan4d, in -an action upon a policy of insui--uargetecanrance.

The only questiop decided in this court was that
relatii¢ to the jurisdiction of the courts of the

United States.

cannot
in ffie
of the
States,
unless in con-zand
litigate
courts
lunited

the characterof
sequence

ofthe indicd-

The parties wer'e described in the declaration as Vose the body
" Williizm-Renderson Boardman, and Pa&cal politc, which
Paoli Pope, both of Boston, in the dis.trjt of Massa- aerb prochusetts, merchants and citizens of the State of .Massa- Per averments
chusetts, complain of The Hope 'Insurance Conhpa- upon the re.
follows:

incorporatedby cord.
ny of Providence, a company legally

the legislatureof the State of Rhode Itland and Providence Plantations,iZnd establishedat Providence im
sazd district?'
Vol; V.

