0
Nt s.
U.

biEVEAux.

SuPREtit C(tURT U. S.

the character of the individuals who compose tbh
corporation- and they think that the precedtnts of
this court, though they were not decisions oi argument, ought not to be absolutely disregarded.
If a corporation may sue in the courts of the
union, the court is of opinion that the averment in
this case is sufficient.
Being authorized to sue in their corporate name,
they could make the averment, and it must apply td
the plaintiffs as individuals, betause it could not -be
true as applied to the corporation.
Judgment reversed; plea in abatement overruled
.ind cause remanded.
Judge LIVINGSTOIT having an interest in the
questi6n, gave no opinion.

MATTHEWS v. ZANE'S LESSEE

PRROR to the supreme court of the state of
Trhe lands in.
btalded witlinI Ohio for the county of Muskingum, in an action of
the -Zaieville
i.strict hy the ejectment brought by Zane's Lessee against Matqef of the ad thews, in which both parties claimed title under the
Oarch,
t803, laws of the United States. The question of juristould not after that date, diction in this
be sold at the vol 4. t. 382.)
Marietta landoffice.

case was settled at last term. (Ante,

The remaining question was, whether the plaintiff
in error, or the defendant, had ine title to the west
fraction of, section No. 15. in township No. 12. in
range No. 13. in the state of Ohio.
This question arose upon a special verdict, which
dtated the following facts.
On the 7th of February, 1804,- the office of re-

FEBRUARY, 1,09.

'9

belver of public moneys at 'Marietta then being
racant, Matthews applied to the register of the,
land-office at Marietta,for the purchase of that fraction, who receivqd the application, and gave -Matthews a certificate thereof.
On the 26th. of March, 1804, a register and receiver were appointed for the Zaneville district, and
also .a receiver of public moneys for the Marietta
district,'who conrimenced the duties of his office on
the first of May, in that year.
After the 12th of May, in the'same year, Matthows purchased the land at the Marietta lend-office,
by making such payments, and receiving such certifibates, as are prescribed by law.
On the 21st of May, 1804, thb land-office was first
opened at Zaneville, and the sales of land commenced
therein.
On the 17th of the same May, a schedule was forwarded from the stirveyor-general, purporting to be
a complete list of the lands 1ing within the Zaneville district, which had been before sold at the Marietta land-office, and in which the land in controversy was not included.
Subsequent to the passage of the law for the erection of the Zaneville district, and prior '-to the time
when the office of receiver of public moneys fo'r the
Marietta district became~vacant, two entries were
made in the Marietta land-office, of land lying within the Zanewlle district, which ehtries and sales
were acknowledged as good and valid by the government of the United States, who considered
Matthews's entry *asvoid, and the secretary of the
treasury has directed his purchase-moniey to be repaid t6 him. I he two tracts, the sales of which
-were confirmed by the government of the United
States were in the surveyor-generals schedule returned as sold at Marietta; but the land in controversy was not included in that schedule, because

MAT*TrmW

z'S

LEssEE.

SUPREME COURT. U. S.

96
.AIATTJ-WS

the register of the Ind-office at IL Irietta -had not

ziLNZ'S
LpssZE.

made his return, as by law directed, to the surveyorgeneral, who had no guide by which to make out
the.schedule' but the.returns of the register. The
officers of the Zaneville land-office were directed Jiy
thesecretary of the treasury to receive the schedule
as the only evidence of what land had been sold at
rvarietta.
On the 26th of May, 1804, Zane purchased, at the
Zaneville land-office the land in controveisy, by making such payments, and receiviig such a certificate,
as by law arb prescribed, at which time Matthews
produced hig certificate from the register of the Ma-.
rietta land-office, and gave notice of his having purchased the'same land.
Zane's purchase. was confirmed'by the secretary
of the -treasury.*
P. B. Key, for the plaintiff in error, contended..
1. That thepurcage made by Mtntthews was legal"
,aid valid. ' -And,
.That

the defendant in error was not entitled to

redover.
Thit this subject, may be distinctly understood,
it may be ecessary concisely to state the land "systern of the Urited States.
In 1785, the old congress passcu an ordinancefor
the survey and sale of"public lands in the north-west-"
ern terTitory Seven ranges 9f townships were laid
off,- afid sales, made'at _ ew-2orh, to a considerable
extent. The Indian wars that soon followed, closed
the sales. But after General Wayfie's treaty at
Gre~neville, in 1795, congress took tip thd subject
again, and in May,, 1796, passed aft act for appointing a surveyor-general,'- and directing surveys and
sales. Vol. 3. p., 2"8. These surveys could not be
completed. till the end of the year 1799. 'The aot
5

FEBRUARY, 1809.

S95

vol. 5. P. 174.establislied
.ofthe loth of May, -oh0,

MATTnEWs

tbe present system, by -which four land-offices were z.-Nes
to be oppn.ed, -viz, at Cincinnati, Ghlicothe, Marietta,.. LessES.
atid Steubenville. That at fariettd was for the'
lands lying east o$the sixteenthl range of towviships,
south of the military lands, and south of aline drawn
due west fiom the north-West corner of the first town-'
ship of the second range to the military lands. A.
register of the land-otce, and -a receiver of public
moneys, was, to be appicinted for e.ach of the offices.
A-person wishing to purchaie aiiy ofthe lands was
to pay to the treasurer of the United States, or-.the
receiver of public moneys,. one twentieth part of the
purchase-money" b'esides certain: fees, ahd take his
receiptr therefor; .Which-he was to carry to the register, who was to enter his application in a book,, stating the 'date. of .the applidition, the date of the
receipt, *"idthe number. of the s.ection, or half section, toi'iship and range applied for. -No lands
were to be sold at less than,two dollars an acre,
one fourth, including the one twentieth, in 'forty
days, one- fourth in two .years, one fourth in three
years, and the residue in four years, with interest.
A discou'nt of 8per cen.Per annum.was to be allowed for promrpt -payment. Upon payment of .the
whole purchasefmoney a .patent' was to be issued .by
the president of the United States.
Thus 'stood the land system, and -the- mode of
purchasing and. acquiring title untir congress, desireus of bringing more lands into-the market, passed
an act on the 3d of Marc/, 1803, o1, 6. P, 291. .by
the -th section of -which, a new district was created

ealld' the Zaneville district, which covered, part of
the lands in Marietta district,- and, among Others,

the lands in 'controversy, and certain lands in, the.
military *tractwhich had not been surveyed; This
act did not prescribe the time when the land-office.
should be opened at Zaneville,-nor when the officers
should be appointed.'
The first question which presents 'itself under this

law is, did it prevent a continuance of sales at Ma-

96
lA'THEws
V.

ZA N E'S

SUPREMEICOURT U. IS

rietta, of the lands which had been survjye4 in that
district, and now included in the, Zaneville district?

LESSEE.

~ We contend it did not.
All these laws are to be 'construed together as
forming one system. The twd great principles of
the system are,
Settlement of the. western frontier, and rienue to
be derived from the sales" of the landp.
The importance of the first, and the policy of'set,
tling the western frontier, are too obvious for illustration. It h4s been an object Of anxiety at all
times from the first organization of the union.
As an object of revenue it has been the incessant
subject of attention, and of.-primary Importance.
The proceeds of the sales were in 1790 assigned to
the sinking fund. 'With a view to facilitate sales,
the. lands hai've been divide&.into sections and half
sections. Discounts, and abatement.of ihterest, have
been allowed on.prompt payment. The sale of the
western lands, .therefore, being a leading object of
pational policy, it is to be presumed that they -were
pot to cease unless by positive law.
There is nothing in the act creating 'the Zaneille
district to prevent a sale at Mkiarietta, before the
Z2aneville officeshould be opened.
There is nothing repugnant to such a construction.
Both acts may so far, stand together, and be consistent with each other an4 with the genleral -policy
Pf the United-tt1s,
'he 5th and 6th sections of the act of 1803, taken
together, show that a previous surv-ey was to be made
of the unappropriated military lands which were to
form a part of the Zanev Ue district, beforq the sales
could commence there.

FEBRUARY, 1809.
The'4th section of the act of 1800, gave full powera to the *Mariettaland-office to sell all the -lands
within that district.
This power exists until destroyed, and cannot be
repealed by doubtful implication -against the great
national policy and the scope of the laws., It was
well understood that the Zaneville land-office could
not be opened until a survey should be made. Officers were to *be appointed; and none were appointed until a year after, because they could not act
until- the surveys should be completed, and the lands
ready for sale;*
This shows what construction the executive gave
to the law. The surveyor-general also returned a
list of sales made at Marietta, up to the i7th. of
May, 1804. - All the sales upon that list have been
confirmed by the treasury.
In the course of the year 1803 a survey was made,
and congress, by the act of the 26thpf March, 1804,
106. § 12. opened the Zaniville land-office
vol. 7. "f.
on the 21st of May, 1804, and directed the sales to
¢oinmence there on that day.
Is it a reasonable construction to contend that
.700,000 acres should be locked up from market for
a whole year, when every act'of the government demonstrated their anxiety to mike sales.
The act ot 1803 described limits withini which ayt
office was erected for future sales, but the opening
of that office and proceeding to sell was to be settled by a future law. This Weas done, and the office
directed 'to go into operation on the,. 21st of May,
1804. Until that period the office at Marietta might
proceed to sell.
This construction derives weight from an analogous case, a case also of revenue.
,Suppose a district, for the collection ofduties,-diVoI, "Y.

MATH
ZANE'S

V.s

-98

SUPREME CObRT: U. &

vided, and a new'port of entry established; and. a codwould this put a stop tb the
lectoroto beappointed,
1p
LZsszE. entry and. collection atthe first-port uhnil"the sebond

M&TTHEws
ZANE
Z. S

''

'office

was open ,for business?

* If Matthews's. purchase hid been inserted in the
-survey;or-qenera1's'schedule, it 'would hae'been confirmed byhe ,treashry for -the sme.rekson that the'
two other similar stales ere confirmed."
The reason why it- was -not upori that schedule"wa.s
the neglect of the register. Shall"the neglect or
omiqsion of his duty by an officer of the United
States.prejudice the claim of an innocent purchaer?
was not the
The schedule of the surveyor-general
ales at the Marietta
'of
ofidence
only' adniltsible
46t 'ce. There was no-statute,'nor any principle of
law, "which made it such. It *as h matter in pais,
which'might be 'proved .by auy kind of. legal evi,dence. ' The"rgister's certificate which,. Matthews
produced atth"Zaneville office at the time andpiabe
of sale to'Zane "was 'he very best evidence whichcould then be required; and it ought. to have beeui
g
respected. Zafie -purchased. with a full knowledge

of MXthews'stitld;

Harper, contra, contefided that the authority to
sell at Zanevill. was- inconsistent with the authority
-tos'ellat Marietta; and that-conseqtiently the latter
was revoked by the former, When the act of March
S, 1803, directed that 'these lands should be' olTred
for sale titZaneville, they 'could'no longer be sold
elsewhere, The act. provides for the appointment
of officers to sell; Congess had only to create the
office. The presid'ent'wa s to appoint the officers,inder the general' authority .given to him by the
constitution. If the president did'not appoint, that
did not preyent the effect of the act. Tfie president
eannotAispens'e With the law, nor suspend its operation.
The act of the 26th of lVarch, 1804, vol. Y.

-105.

PEBRUARY,

1809.

99

directs positively, that the lands shall be offered for
sale. at Zaneville on the third Monday of May.

TNIATTH

ZANE-LEs~sEE.

No quarter sections or fracti6ns of sections of this land could ,be sold elsewhere. This aict of the 26th
of March, 1804, first gave the- power to sell the fractions of sections separately. It could not be done at
Mariettk until the 14th of May, 1804, yet Matthews's purchase was on the .12th, so that"even if
this land could have been sold at. Marietta at al, it.
could not, on the 12th of May, have been sold separately from a section; nor could have been sold until
it had first bedn offered at public auction.
P. B. Key, in reply.
The purchase of this fraction was with a whole.
aection, and therefore the fact does not support iho
argunlent on the other side.
The only.questions are whether the authority to
sell theqe lands at the Raribtta office ceased before
the Zaneville office was opened; and whether the
neglect of the register to make a return of this sale to
the surveyor-general shall prejudice the claini of the
plaintiff in error.
-February 16.
MVARSr,&LL, Ch. . stated the opinion of the court
to be -that the decision of the 'court below was correct; th'at the erection of 'the Zaneville district suspended the power of sale in the Marietta district.

Judgment affirmed,

t4

