,FEBRUARY, 1S0.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. Can an executor distribute
BSZNT
-the estate before he has qualified and obtained let- C,1JU
ters testamentary ?
LIVrNGSTON, J. In England, an executor, before
probate, can do every thing but declare.

WASHINGTON, J. mentioned the case of Burnley
v. La.nbert, 1'Wash. 308. in which it was decided,,by
the court of appeals of Virginia, thate "after the
assent of the executor, the legal pr9perty is completely vested in the legatee, and cannot be devested by
the creditors."
March 13.
MARSHALL, .Ch.J. delivered the'opinion of the
tourt to thefollowing effect:

This court is of opinion that the possession of
Chapman was a bar to the seizure of-the slave by
the marshal, under.the execution stated in this case.
The. only objection of any weight was, that there was
no admiristration upon the estate of Robert Alexander, stn. and, consequently, that the possession of
Chapman was not -an adverse possession.
But there
and who did
tion between
wards refuse

was an executor competent'to assent,
assent, to the legacy, and to the partithe legatees, and who could not afterto execute the will.
Judgment affirmed.

AULD v. NOR VOOD.

,ERROR to the circuit court for the districtof Ifleowuer
Columbia. sitting at Alexandria, in an action of ofsvepemit her to re'detinue for a female slave namned Eliza' Upon the ia 1in the
Vol.

.

Z,

SUPREME COURT V. S.

below, the
plaintiff in error, who was defendant in that court9
~ tool a bill of exceptions, which stated.that evidence
noaeesion of was offered of the following facts: The slave,
was- the
1798,
o - property of 7ohn
.
then, in November,
n for A.year
tdithoit the Dabny, against whom a fieri facias was issued at
naent of. the the suit of- orwood, the present defendant in error
C-J r delivers
Ir to B. -who upon which the slave was seized and sold by the
theep* her 6 proper b1icer; that one Charles Turner bought her
for the said Norwood, and held her, as Norc
t
cannot Wood's property, until November,' 1802, when he
Of.
be so conneet
with the delivered hr, without authority from Norwood, to
Septem"oiaession of one R. B. Jamesson, who held her untilunder
the
1806, when he became insolvent
inake ber,9elOwe
A.
fraudulent
it a'ato
deand
Columbia,
of
the
district
of
act
loan within the insolvent
dct of
of vegiVirgi- livered her, as part of his property, to Auld, the
bly
vu, in regard plaintiff in error, ,who was appointed trustee under
This suit was commenced on the 19th of
9o 3"'E credit- that act.
September, 1806..
TII-2

V*

trial of the general issue-in the court

NloqooD.

Whereupon the plaintiff in error prayed the court
to instruct the jury that if they found the facts to
be as stated, the plaintiff below was not entitled to
recover, And if the court should not think proper
to give thai instruction, that ihey would instruct the
jury that the plaintiff's siffering the slave -to remain
out of his actual p-ssession fqr so long a time was
fraudulent in law as to the defendant. Which instructions 'the court refused to give, and the defendant Auld excepted. The verjct and judgment
being against him, he brought his writ of error.
Swann, for the plaintiff in error, contended,
That it was to be considered as a.loan of the
slave to Turner; and that the possession of Jamesson, connected with that of Tarner, made a period
of more thanfve years, and, by the statute of frauds
and perjuries of Virginia, (P. P. 16.) such possession transferred the property to the person in possessionb
That statute declares that "I'here any loan of

