FEBRUARY

18o9:

287

though imported under the denomination of raised
bottoms.

THZ U, S.

07S.

,It appears to'have - een the policy of the United
States to distinguish between raw and manufactured
copper. From the facts stated, the copper in ques-"
tion'cannot be deemed manufactured copper within
the intention of the legislature.
The opinion certifie-d to the court below was,
that round copper bottoms turned up at-the edge are
not iiabe to the payment of duty Withintfe meaniag
.t the several acts of congress.

RUSH

. PARKER!

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of Thseoartwl
give thne~to
Marylanci, in an action of replevin.
gtt.e affirmvits as to tlq

P. Boyd, for the defendant in error,-contended, matte r'" if
that the replevin bond being in the penal sum of pute.
1,200 dollars only, was conclusive evidence that the
matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, did not amount
to 2,000 dollars, and .consequently this court has tio
jurisdiction in the case.
Z

M'tartin, contra, stated that he did not know till
yestcrday that this point would be made in the cause,
and prayed time to show by affidavits the real value
pt the matter in dispute. Whiqh.
The court granted.
LIVINGSTON, J. thought that leave ouight not to
be given, on account of the delay it would produce.
He had found a practice established here of rec.-i.Vo
ing such affidavits; but he did not know of any case
in which time had beci given to produce thim;, and
he would nor consent to give it now. The cast: wa.

288
avSa

SUPREME COURT U. S.

brought up to last.term.

The party ought. to have

come prepared to support the jurisdiction.

PUAIR.

.ffarcA 15.
This being the last day of the. term, and no affidavits having been produced,
The writ of error was dismissed, this court having
no jurisdiction in the case.

LOGAN v. PATRICK.

The oircult

THIS was a case certified from the circuit court

eourthasjuris- for the 7th circiuit and district of Kentucky, in

diti,)

in

a

cuit in equity, which the judges below differed in opinion upon the
-to,
pro- following questions:
Cc.edi 'sta.
nis upon
,judgment at
the
the sametwee
same par-

Whether the complainant, (Logan,)
who is a citian.ssosaedi-h
ti a.houg' zen of the state of Kentucky, and is so stated i the
the suhpm~ua pleadings, can maintain this suit, in this court,
be served upon
the
the defendant against the defendant, who is a citizen and inhabitont o'f the di- ant of the state of Virginia, and is so stated in the
the cur sith pleadings, upon the following case: John Patrick
obtained in this court a judgment in ejectment
against David Logan, who filed a bill in equity
against him to be relieved against the judgment, and
to compel a conveyance of the land, and obtained an
injunction to stay proceedings on the judgment; but
the subpcna was not'served in the district of Kentuckv.. Can this .court entertain jurisdiction of the
cause? If not, does the defendant's answering the
bill, without insisting upon the .objection that the*
process was not served upon him in the district of
Kentucky, authorize the court to entertain the
cause?
T,

-CoiYRT, upon the first opening of the case,

