.FEBRUARY, .1909.
But as the construction of the law w a liable to
some question, the court will suffer the certificate
of probable cause.to remain as it is A doubt as
to the'true construction of the law is as reasonabje
a cause for seizure at a doubt respecting the fact.

Ki)Ew

ja'u.s.

Seatence affirinad.

HIMELY v. ROSE.

THIS was an appeal from so much of the final It is not neetsdntende of the circuit court for. tfe district-bf So'tih 7 ton take
.e~eptigns to
Carolina- rendered upon 'the mandate from this court the report of
if the
errors appear
issued upon the ieversal of tie fodrmer sentence of auditors,
that court, (see- ante, vol. 4. p. 292.) as affirmed the upon the fice
the court "to inquire Of the 'report.
report of auditors'appointed'by
whn
if acI
Tfthe/peoperand report whether any, and ifany, what deductons ty, ordered to

are to be allowed for freight, insirance and 'other be restored, be
expenses ivhich would have been incurred by the n°l -ie..
owners in bringing the cargo into the' United States,
and -ulsa to ascertain and report the interest to be
paid by the claimant to the appellanft," so far as that
report allowed interest to the *appellant, and disallowed-the expense o' insurance to the claimant.
This court, in reversing the former sentence of the
circuit court, decreed as follows :.that tlhSarah and
her cargo "ought to be I'estoIed. to' the original
owners, subject to those charges offreight.ipsurance
6iid other expenses which would-have been incurred
by the 6wners in bringing the cargo into the United,
States; svhich equitable deductions, the defendants
are at liberty to show in thi circuit. court. This
court is theefbre ofopinion, that the sentence of the
circuit court 'of South Carolina ought to 'be- rev
ersed, and the c6'use be'remanded 'to that court ir
order that a final decree" may be made thefein conformably to this opinion."
Voh V.

'Br

316
v:

SUPREME COUIRT U. S.

Upon receiving the mandate from this court tocarry its sentence of reversal intd effect, thg. circuitcourt directed a reference to auditors in the terms

above stated; and the auditors rep.6rteA- ' that tha
clairnatit is not entided'to any insurance, but that he
ought to be allowed freight on ihe cargo at the rate
of one cent per pound for such. of it as.was in bags,
and one and a half ent per pound for such-of it' as
was in casks, and also the sum of 5Q0 dollars for
expenses incidental to the landing, wharfage, storage,
&c, of the cargo, which sums being deducted fromn
the amoupt of tha decree, the dlaiihant- must, pay-the
appellant two years' interest on the residue at the.
.rate of seven per cent. per annum."
lfrthi and 7ones, for Himely, thq appellant
After the express mandate 6f this court, directind
the allowance of freight and iiisurance," the court
to auditors to say
below ought not to have referred it.
whether any thing 'should be allowed for insurance.
The mandate was silent as. to intwre'st; indeedi as
the proceeding was in rem, and the decree for restitution, interest could not have bpen given.
T"LivirmasToW, J. Can this court take notice of
these errors hithe report if no exception were taken
in the court below ?"

M.Tartin. There were no pardculart items t6 which,
an exception was necesiary. The error appears palpably'up6n the face of the procee lings. And thio
court, in the case of Mfirray v. The CharmingBetsy. (ante,'vol. 2. p. i24o) decided i that exceptions
are not necessary if the- error appear upon the face
of the report itself.

Besides, in an appear from a sentebce of a court"
of adiairalty; ihe question of fact is opened as well
-as the question of law.

Nothing is before this court
MARSHALL, Ch.
but what is subscquent to the nandate.

FEBRUARY, 1809,

31.5

Martin. The auditors have llowed nothing. for
the expenses of the cargo at St. 7ago de. Cuba;
Himely was -as much..entitled to those -expenses under the decree of this court, as to thoie incurred in
this country.
C. Lee, contra.
There were no exceptions t6 the report in the
court below. It was there 'regularly confirmed by
that court, whose decree ought to be affirned in
this, unless the directions of the mandate have been
counteracted in one or both the paticulars of which
tie appellant complains.
.The mandate left the claim of insurance open to
be adjusted in the circuit court, and unless insfirance
was proved to have been actually-made, nothing'
should be allowed on that account.
It is now to be presumed and taken as an admitted fact, that no insurance was made by the appellant.
The interest was properly allowed, unless. good
reason can be shown in equity why it should not be
paid. According to modern 'usage in commercial
controversies, interest is deemed ani inseparable incident to the principal debt, the payment whereof -is
wrongfully delayed. Thi being the general rule, and
the mandate being silent, the allowance of interest is
unobjectionable. As the claimant was to 'have the
benefit of equitable deductions, he ought to be subjected to equitable charges. He has had the- use of
the money, and the other party has lost the interest
of it.
The freight and other' charges, as well as the value of the cargo,, having been amicably .arranged by
the parties, and there being no appeal as to.them, they
are not now to be-the subject of inquiry or decisiod.
Upon 'the quesion of -interest, Mr. Lee cited- 3
Dal. 332.. Bills v. Rose,-aad 4 Dal. 289. Crawford
v. Wlling and Morris.

H2a16V
u z,

8.16

-SUPIME COURT U. S.

Fau .v

fMar'ch 10.

M-miszAmvL, Ch.
court as follows.,

J

delivqred-the opinion, of the

A decree having been iormerly rendered in this
cause, -the coxrt is now'to
'
determine whether that
decree ha' been executed according to its true intent
and meaning.
That decree directed "the cargo of the, Sorah to
bt -stored to the original owners, subject p those
charges of freight, insdrance and other expenses
which would have been incurred by'them, in bringing the cargo into the United States."
In carrying this decree ifito execution, an allowanc' has been made for freight,, and for experses" incurred at the port of importation; but no allowance
has been' mad6 for expenses at the port of lading,
nbr-for insurance. The appellants, too, were chaged
wivith. interest on the money into which the cargo had
been converted,
. No exception having.been takeu to this report, it
is now liable to those exceptions only which appear
on it fqce..
So far as respects freight, ant the ezpenses at
the port of entry and delivery, the :report must be
corisidered as correct; but in those items of the claim
which were disallowed, the error, if it be one, is apparent on the face of the proceedings, and 'may
therefore be corrected.
The court has not considered' the appellants as
infected by the marine trespass committed by tli6
captors.of.the Sarah and her. cargo. Their operatiotis commence" with their purdhase at St. Jago de
Cuba;-.and the decree designed,- and ii thought to
have been so expressed as to charge the,.owners with
all the expenses waich they would have, incurred,
had they made tht Purchaahenselves, H-ad they

FEBRUARY, 1809.

317

done so, thby must have inctirred some expenses -it- HIzm
the port of lading. Among these is certainly, not to , _Rosz.
be estimated the price. 6f the cargo ; but any expense necessarily attendant upon the transaction, such
as putting thd *cargoon boara, may'properly, under
this decree, be charged to the owners.
It is obvious, too, that the owners, or the underwriters, if they represent the' owners, -had they beenL
the purchasers, must have insured the 'vessel and
cargo from St. Jago de Cuba to the United States,
or must themselves have stood insuiers; in which
latter case, the risk is deemed equal to the insurance.
The decree, therefore, formerly rendered' by this
court, is understood to have entitled the appellants
o insurance.

The question of interest is more doubtfful; but
this court is of opinion that the appellants/ought not
to be charged with interest.
Restitution of the cargo ,w.as awarded. The pro;.
perty having been' sold, the mdney pr'oceeding from
the sales is substituted for the specific articles. If
this money remains in possession* of the -court, it'
carries no interest; if it be in the hands of an individual, it may bear interest, or otherwise, as* the
court shall direct. But it is not supposed that the
party, to whom restitution is awarded, receives interest in such case, unless it be-decreed by thexcourt.
This court did not decree interest; nor would interest have been decreed, in this case, -had the particular fact of the sale been brought before them.
the circumstances of the-case were'such as to re,strain the court from inserting in its decree anything
'which might increase its severity. The loss was
heavy; and it fell unavoidably on one of two inno-cent parties. The court was nbt-inclined to add to
its weight, by giving interest in the nature of da'mages. The allowancA of interest, therefore, in the
court below is overruled.

The sentence of the circuit court is reversed.

SIG
ulizianzr

SUPREME COURT U. S.

JOHNuso, Ja When. the mah.date of this court
w'.s received in the court below, auditors were nominated, by .conseit, to report what would be the
usaal. mercantile' allowance between the parties;
and to state an account accordingly. Those- au.ditors reported against the alloWance of insurance,
and in favoui of interest." The supposition that the
expense of transportation was not allowed, I am
convinced, must be incorrect; for insurance..and- intertst were the subject of the only two exceptions
taken .to vheir report. Upon hearing argument on
these two exceptions, the ccurt affirmed their report
upon both these points, and I have since heard: no
reason to alter-the opinion' which I entertained on
the argument below.

It is contended that the mandate of Nhis court
was peremptory as to the allowance of insurhnce,
Qnd did nat sanction'th e charge of interest. The
wvords of the'mandate s6 far as relates to these
Foints are ihe following' "subject to those charges
0r freight, insurance,: and other expenses, whick
would hdive been incurred br the owners in bringing t4e cargo into the United States; which equigablf Aductiofis the defendants are at lberly to show
go thecirczte court," &c. These words imperatively
require two things;, viz. that the deductions, to be
allbwed to Himely, should be equitable in their
nature, and.shouldbe shown to the court. Upon
what. ground ould an allowance for insurance have
been.deemed just or equitable? It could only have
been upo4. Himely's having actually paid an insurance, .which he was at "liberty. to show, or
up.on his having .himselfincurred that risk which
would have been co'ered by -insurance.. The fact
wab admitted that. he had .not iisured, and as t6
having incurred any risk himself, 1-cannot gnder,5taiid in what possible view he could .have incurred
a risk, when this court has decided that if the -property had been lost, he would have lost nothing. It
was not the property of Himly, it vas the property
6f Rose; had it been Cunk in'the ocean, it "would
not hafv been the loss ol kIndy, it would have

FEBRUARY, 1809.,

3-19

HXmiCL-k
been the Joss of Rose; there can be. nor reasojn,
v.
then, why Rose, who, ran.all the risk, sh6uld"be
ROSE.
inadJudged to pay an insurante -to Himely, whocurred.no risk: bAt "uch is the effect of deducting
it from the sum to be 'paid to Rose. After de.piding that the .property 'was nrt changed, that it
,still continued in Rose, and "was never vested in
Hitnely, I feel confused by the inquiry on -what
possible ground.the allowance" for insurance can be.
-sanctioned.
With regard. to interest, the question is not. soclear, but the difficulty does hot arise-upon the abstract equity 'of the charge. In .equitky interest•
goes with the principal, as the'fruit with the. free.
.Rose is now to be' considered as the rightful ownqir
of the property, and ought to have had the possegsion and use of t, during the existence of this con%test. But Himely, having given stipulation bonds,
was, by. the order of the district court, admiftd to
the possession and use of it, added it to his capital,
traded upon it, and made *uch profits and advantages of it as his, skill or ingenuity suggested. Rode,
in the mean time, was kept out of the use of it, and.
lost those emoluments and mercantile advantages
which might have resulted from the use;of. it. It
which the property is locked up
was. not a case in,
in a warehouse, or the -proceeds thereof deposited
iithe hands of the register of this court, but a case
in which the goods. werq, in fact, converted -into
money by the effect of the stipulation bond,.and the
given to Himely, to the prejudice of Rose :
use of iS'
there could, therefore, be no radical objectioif ta the
charge, on the grounOl of equity. Had tlt mandate issued to restore to the party a: flock of sheep,
or stock, or bonds bearing interest, it is presumed
tfiat it would have been constrtied to authorize the
delivery of their natural or artificial increase without
any express, words to-carry them. . But it is said
that the mandate does not expressly aitborize this
allowance. This is true; but it must be recollected
that the mandate of this court enjoins the allowance
6f equitabie deductions. Now a variety of deduct
-

390
v
'

PJPREIME tOURT'tT. S,

ti~fims may be, in the abstract equitablp, but. may

lse .that character by its being made to*appear that
tampei compensation has been already made "for
thein. t was, in this light that the court below
sus tined the charge of interest: because having
fiad the usufruct of theproperty concerning which
thosecharges on his part, which *merited the denomination -of equitable deductions, were incurred,
it appeared to. the court in fact. that he had'bee'a
compensated in part for those advances by the use
of the money. If this court had not-made use of
the terms equitable deductions, that' court -probably
would not have thought itself sanctioned in doing
what appeared so equitable between the parties.
March 15.
ffardw and Yones, for 'the appellant, moved to
open the principal decree'; aiid- stated that they
were prepared to show that this court had bieen ndisinformed as to the law of St. D omingo. That they
-had further arr&es. or ordinances, of 'the Prench
government explanatory of that upon which the,
sentence:was founded; and showing that the seizure
of the. ptoperty -Oas the exerdise of'a belligerent,
.inot of a municipal right.
I They, contended that while the property iremained out-of the jurisdiction of the United States, it
w.a lost to the libellants, and chat Himely was enstled to a compensation for bringing it vithin their
reach. 'That 'he ought to be reimbursed at. least
What he paid,for the propeqy..
ci. Lee,. contra.
,The appeal as to the execution of .the mandate
Oives no right to open the original dccree.
No further order wastaken in consequence of
the motion.

