SHEA v. VIALPANDO
Syllabus

SHEA, EXECUTIVE- DIRECTOR, DEPARTMENT
OF SOCIAL SERVICES OF COLORADO, ET AL.
v. VIALPANDO
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE TENTH CIRCUIT

No. 72-1513.

Argued February 26, 1974-Decided April 23, 1974

Section 402 (a) (7) of the Social Security Act requires state agencies
in administering the Aid to Families with Dependent Children
(AFDC) program to "take into consideration . . . any expenses
reasonably attributable to the earning of . . . income." Such
.expenses are deducted from an AFDC applicant's income in
determining eligibility for assistance. Colorado's AFDC regulations, which previously had permitted the deduction from income
of all expenses reasonably attributable to employment, including
transportation expenses, were amended in 1970 to subject workrelated expenses (with certain exceptions) to a uniform allowance
of $30 per month. This substantially reduced respondent's
monthly deductions for work-related transportation expenses and
the corresponding increase in her monthly net income made her
ineligible for continued AFDC assistance. She then brought this
action for injunctive and declaratory relief, claiming, inter alia,
that Colorado's standardized work-expense allowance violated
§ 402 (a) (7). The District Court granted summary judgment for
respondent, and the Court of Appeals affirmed. keld: The
Colorado regulation conflicts with § 402 (a) (7) and is therefore
invalid. Pp. 258-266.
(a) In light of the statute's legislative history and the normal
meaning of the term "any," the language of § 402 (a) (7) requiring
the consideration of "any" reasonable work expenses in determining eligibility for AFDC assistance is to be interpreted as a
congressional directive that no limitation, apart from' that of
reasonableness, may be placed upon recognition of work-related
expenses, and hence a fixed work-expense allowance that does not
permit deductions for expenses, exceeding that standard directly
contravenes the languAge of the statute. P. 260.
(b) Standardized treatment of work-related expenses without
provision for showing actual and reasonable expenses exceeding
the standard amount threatens to defeat the purpose of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1973

Opinion of the Court

416 U. S.

mandatory work-expense recognition provision of § 402 (a) (7)
of encouraging AFDC recipients to secure and retain employment,
since by limiting work expenses to $30 per month the Colorado
regulation results in a disincentive to seek or retain employment
for all recipients whose reasonable work-related expenses exceed
or would exceed that amount. Pp. 263-265.
(c) It is not the adoption of a standardized work-expense

allowance per se that violates § 402 (a) (7), but the fact that the
standard is in effect a maximum or absolute limitation upon the
recognition of such expenses.

P. 265.

475 F. 2d 731, affirmed.
POWELL,

J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

Douglas D. Doane and Charles B. Lennahan, Special
Assistant Attorneys General of Colorado, argued the
cause for petitioners. With them on the brief were John
P. Moore, Attorney General, John E. Bush, Deputy Attorney General, and Norman A. Palermo.
Tom W. Armour argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were James W. Kin, Steven J.
Cole, and Henry A. Freedman.
MR. JUSTICE POWELL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In administering the Aid to Families with Dependent
Children (AFDC) program of the Social Security Act of
1935, as amended (Act), 42 U. S. C. § 601 et seq., state
agencies are required by § 402 (a) (7) of the Act, 81 Stat.
881, 42 U. S. C. § 602 (a)(7), to "take into consideration ... any expenses reasonably attributable to the earning of . . . income." Such employme:t-related expenses
are deducted from an AFDC applicant's income in the
process of determining eligibility for assistance.
We
granted certiorari, 414 U. S. 999 (1973), to determine
whether, in light of § 402 (a)(7), a State may adopt a
standardized allowance for expenses attributable to the

SHEA v. VIALPANDO
Opinion of the Court

251

earning of income which does not allow, an applicant to
deduct ezpenses that exceed. the standard. We hold that
it may not.

I
The AFDCprogram is designed to provide financial
assistance to needy dependent children and the parents
or relatives who live with and care for them. A principal purpose of the program, as indi'cated by 42 U. S. C.
§ 601, is to help such parents and relatives "to attain or
retain capability for the maximum self-support and personal 'independence consistent with the maintenance of
continuing parental care and protection ....
"
The
program "is based on a scheme of cooperative federalism,"
King v. Smith, 392 U. S. 309, 316 (1968). It is financed
in large measure by the Federal Government on a
matching-fund basis, and participating States must submit AFDC plans in conformity with the Act and the
regulations promulgated thereunder by the Department
of Health, Education, and Welfare (HEW). The program is, however, administered by the States, which are
given broad discretion in determining both the standard of
need and the level of benefits. See Jefferson v. Hackney,
406 U. S. 535, 541 (1972); Rosado v. Wyman, 397 U. S.
397, 408-409 (1970); Dandridge v. Williams, 397 U. S.
471, 478 (1970); King v. Smith, supra, at 318-319.
Under HEW regulations all AFDC plans must specify
a statewide standard of need, which is the amount
deemed necessary by the State to maintain a hypothetical family at a subsistence level. Both eligibility for
AFDC asristance and the amount of benefits to be
granted an individual applicant are based on a comparison of the State's standard of need with the income
and resources available to that applicant. 45 CFR § 233.20
(a) (2) (i). The "income and resources" attributable to
an applicant, defined in 45 CFR §§ 233.20 (a)(6) (iii-viii),
536-272 0 - 75 - 21

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of the Court

416 U. S.

consist generally of "only such net income as is actually
availablq for current use on a regular basis-;.. and only
currently ,available resources." 45 CFR § 233.20. (a) (3)
(ii) (c). See also HEW, Simplified Methods for Consideration of Income and Resources (1965). In determining net income, any expenses reasonably attributable
to the earning of income are deducted from gross income.
42 U. S. C. § 602 (a) (7). If, taking into account these
deductions and other deductions not at issue in the instant case, the net amount of "earned income" is less than
the predetermined statewide standard of need, the applicant is eligible for participation in the program and the
4mount of the- assistance payments will be based upon
that difference; - 45-CFR §§ 233.20 (a) (3) (ii) (a) and (c).
Prior to May 1970, Colorado's AFDC regulations permitted the dedu-ction from income of all expenses reasonably attributable to employment, including but not
limited to the actual cost of transportation, if "essential
Child care expenses and manto retain employment."'
datory payroll deductiofts were also treated as employment-related expenses, and all such expenses were computed on an individualized basis. In May 1970, this
policy was changed by the establishment of a maximum
transportation work-expense allowance of either $30 per
-month, if the use of a car was essential, or the actual
'Section 4313.13, vol. 4, -Colorado Division of Public Welfare Staff
Manuar(effective March 1970), provided in part:
."Employment expenses which are deducted from the gross amount
received by an employed recipient include, but are not restricted to:
"Transportation expenses:
"Public transportation to and from work is allowed at actual cost.
When the recipient must use his own car as fransportation to and
from work, 50 a mile is allowed, plus parking fees if required. Purchase, repair, or upkeep of a vehicle, providing it is essential to re-,
tain employment and the plan therefore is approved by the county

department."

SHEA v. VIALPANDO
251

Opinion of the Court

expense of public transportation. Effective July 1, 1970,
the Colorado work-expense allowance regulation was again
amended to provide that in addition to mandatory payroll.
deductions and child care expenses:
"For employment expenses such as'transportation,
special clothing, union dues, special \education or
training costs, telephone, additional food or personal needs, etc., which are an obligation due to the
employment, an allowance of $30 per month is made
for such costs."
Thus, while Colorado continued to allow individualized
treatment of mandatory payroll deductions and child
care costs, all other w9rk-related expenses were subjected
to a uniform allowance of $30, even if an applicant could
prove actual expenses in excess of that figure. The Regional Commissioner of the Social and Rehabilitation
Setvice of HEW thereafter accepted the incorporation of
this provision into Colorado's AFDC plan.'
2 Section 4313.13, vol. 4, Colorado Division of Public Welfare Staff
Manual (effective July 1970). The $30 standardized figure is an
average based upon a statewide statistical survey of work expenses
incurred by persons in the AFDC program. in Colorado. It was
calculated by examining the work expenses of every AFDC recipient
in Colorado for the last month of each quarter of the year from
March 1969 to March 1970. -The expenses included transportation,
union dues, uniforms and toots, telephone, and general items, but excluded the cost of child care. The statewide average varied from a
low of $30.55 in June 1969 to a high of $36.93 in March 1970.
According to HEW, 20 States, including Colorado, presently
employ a standard work-expense allowance in combination with
actual child care expenses, and in some cases mandatory payroll
deductiors, and an additional 15 States use other systems of mandatory standard allowances for one or more major items of work
expense. Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 5. These
standard allowances have often been the subject of litigation. A
number have been held invalid. See Anderson v. Graham, 492

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of the Court

416 U. S.

When this suit was commenced in July 1970, Mrs.
Vialpando was employed some eight miles from the
small Colorqdo community in which she resided with
her two-year-old daughter. Since no public transportation was available, respondent traveled to and from work
each day in a used automobile she had purchased for
that purpose. In making the requisite eligibility and
assistance determinations under the Colorado AFDC pro,
gram, Mrs. Vialpando had been permitted to deduct
$47.30 in mileage costs and $63.81 -in car payments4
F. 2d 986 (CA8 1973) (Nebraska $25 standard work-expense allowance); Connecticut State Dept. of Pub. Welfare v. HEW, 448 F. 2d
209 (CA2 1971) (Connecticut regulation limiting the types of
deductible work-related expenses); Adams v. Parham, Civil Action
No. 16041 '(ND Ga. Apr. 14, 1972) (unpublished) (Georgia $5
standard work-expense allowance); Campagnuolo v. White, Civil Action No. 13968 (Conn. June 22, 1972) (unpublished) (Connecticut $60 standard allowance for full-time employment expenses and
$40 standard allowance for part-time employment expenses); Williford v. Laupheimer, 311 F. Supp. 720 (ED Pa. 1969) (Pennsylvania
$50 maximum allowance for work expenses); County of Alameda
v. 'Carleson, 5 Cal. 3d 730, 488 P. 2d 953 (1971), appeal dismissed,
406 U. S. 913 (1972) (California work-expense regulation providing
for standard deductions ranging from $6 to $25 per month). In
X v. McCorkle, 333 F. Supp. 1109 (N. J. 1970), modified on
other grounds, sub nom. Engelman v. Amos, 404 U. S. 23 (1971), the
court approved in dicta New Jersey's $50 standard work-expense
allowance. In Conover v. Hall, 104 Cal. Rptr. 77 (1972), decision
vacated pending appeal in California Supreme Court, the court upheld California's $50 standard allowance.
4 Colorado did not make it a statewide practice to allow AFDC
recipients to deduct installment payments on the purchase of a car.
Consistent with the reasonibleness requirement of 42 U. S. C. § 602
(a) (7), such determinations were, quite correctly, made on a caseby-case basis. As counsel for the State commented at oral argument:
"This was an individual decision in an individual case in El Paso
County, Colorado. The same facts could have been presented to
an eligibility technician in another part of Colorado, who would have
made a decision . . . that the car was a personal expense, that a

SHEA v. VIALPANDO
251

Opinion of the Court

from her monthly gross income.

These deductions of

approximately $110 per month, coupled with child care
and mandatory payroll deductions; entitlbd her to an
AFDC grant of $74 per month for herself and her
daughter. The effect of the July 1970 amendment of
the Colorado AFDC regulations was to reduce respondent's monthly deductions for transportation expenses related to employment from $110 to $30. The corresponding increase in her monthly net earned income rendered
her ineligible for continued AFDC assistance.'
Respondent thereupon brought this class action in the
United States District Court for the District of Colorado
under 42 U. S. C. § 1983 and 28 U. S. C. §§ 1343 (3) and
(4). She sought the convening of a three-judge District
Court, and requested injunctive relief and a declaratory
judgment that the Colorado standardized work-expense
allowance violated § 402 (a) (7) of the Act and the Equal
Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Named as defendants were the Executive Director of the
Colorado Department of Social Services and other state
job was available closer to the home of the recipient or that she
could use public transportation." Tr. of Oral Arg. 33-34.
Respondent correctly concedes the State's responsibility for inquiring into whether claimed deductions are excessive or are truly
attributable to the earning of income. Brief for Respondent 4.
No doubt a State should scrutinize with particular care claimed
expenses for automobiles or other items that in large measure are
capital expenditures which will also be used for personal purposes
unrelated to employment. Recognizing that States in administering
AFDC programs must determine the reasonableness of work-related
expenses does not, however, resolve the issue before us-whether
States may ban all such expenses, no matter how reasonable and
necessary, above a fixed cutoff figure.
5Another effect of the change in the State's AFDC regulation
was to terminate respondent's eligibility for participation in
Colorado's medical assistance program under Title XIX of the Social
Security Act, 42 U. S. C. § 1396a (a)(10).

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of the Court

416 U. S.

officers involved in administering Colorado's AFDC program. Upon stipulated facts and in reliance upon § 402
(a) (7) of the Act, the District Court in an unreported
order grantea1 respondent's motion for summary judgment8
and enjoined enforcement of the challenged regulation.
Finding the pendent federal statutory claim dispositive,
the District Court properly did not reach the constitutional issue and properly did not convene a three-judge
court. Hagans v. Lavine, 415 U. S. 528 (1974).
The United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth
Circuit affirmed. 475 F. 2d 731 (1973). Relying on the
.,anguage and the legislative history of § 402 (a) (7)
and on other provisions of the Act, the court interpreted the words "any expenses" in § 402 (a) (7) to mean
"all actual expenses," and held that the standardized
allowance did not meet this requirement. The court
reasoned that the statute could be read to permit the use
of a standardized allowance for employment expenses,
but only where such an allowance was adequate to cover
all actual expenses. We agree.
II
,'The Social Security Act of 1935, as originally enacted,
49 Stat. 620, did not expressly require that States allow
AFDC beneficiaries to deduct from gross income expenses
incurred in connection with the earning of income. The
precursor to § 402 (a) (7), which appeared in the 1939
6 While the case was pending in the District Court, respondent
terminated her employment and again received an AFDC grant.
Prior to the summary judgment hearing, she returned to work, again
incurring work-related expenses substantially in excess of the $30
allowance. Although respondent continued to receive a grant
despite her renewed employment, the amount was significantly lower
than it would have been if she had been permitted to deduct work

expenses in full.

SHEA v. VIALPANDO
251

Opinion of the Court

amendments to the Act, 53 Stat. 1379, provided simply
that
"the State agency shall, in determining need, take
into consideration any other income and resources
of any child claiming aid to dependent children."
The Social Security Board, the federal entity then overseeing the categorical public assistance programs, soon recognized that under the predecessor of the AFDC program
recipient families with working members incurred certain employment-related expenses that reduced available
income but were not taken into account by the States
in determining eligibility for AFDC assistance. In keeping with the Act's purpose of encouraging employment
even when the income produced thereby did not eliminate
entirely the need for public assistance, the Board recognized that a failure to consider work-related expenses
could result in a disincentive to seek or retain employment. Accordingly, the States were permitted but not
required to allow credit for work-related expenses in determining eligibility.8
7The AFDC program was originally known as "Aid to Dependent
Children." 49 Stat. 627. In 1962, the name of the program was
changed to "Aid and Services to Needy Families with Children,"
and the name of the assistance provided under the program changed
to "Aid to Families with Dependent Children." Pub. L. 87-543, 76
Stat. 185, §§ 104 (a) (1) and 104 (a) (2).
8Section 3140 of the HEW Handbook of Public Assistance Administration, Part IV (1957), thus provided in part:
"A State public assistance agency may establish a reasonable
minimum money amount to represent the combined additional cost
of three items-food, clothing, and personal incidentals-for all
employed persons. The State plan may provide that other items
of work expense will be allowed when there is a determination that
such expenses do, in fact, exist in the individual case."
See also Social Security Board, Bureau of Public Assistance, State
Letter No. 4 (Apr. 30, 1942); HEW, State Letter No. 291 (Mar. 11,
1957) (indicating agency approval of such deductions).

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of the Court

416 U. S.-

As part of a general amendment of the Act in 1962, Pub.
L. 87-543, 76 Stat. 185, Congress made mandatory the
widespread but then optional practice of deducting employment expenses from total income in determining
eligibility for assistance. Section 402 (a) (7) of the Act
as thus amended provided in relevant part:
"[T]he State agency shall, in determining need,
take into consideration any other income and resources of-any child or relative claiming aid to families with dependent children, as well as any expenses reasonably attributable to the earning of any
such income . ...

."

(Emphasis added.)

Br its terms, § 402 (a) (7) requires the consideration
of "any" reasonable work expenses in determining eligibility for AFDC assistance. In light of the evolution
of the statute and the normal meaning of the term "any,"
we'read this language as a congressional directive that
no limitation, apart from that of reasonableness, may be
placed upon the recognition of expenses attributable to
the earning of income. Accordingly, a fixed work-expense allowance which does not permit deductions for
expenses in excess of that standard is directly contrary
to the language of the statute.
Petitioners, relying upon the "take into consideration"
phrase of § 402 (a) (7), argue that the requirement of
"consideration" is satisfied by the use of a,statistical
avera'e of the actual expenses of all AFDC participants
in the State. But this argument ignores the fact that
the phrase "take into consideration" modifies "income
and resources . . . as well as any expenses reasonably
attributable to the earning of any such income" (emphasis added). Thus, it seems inescapable that whatever treatment is accorded income must also-be extended
to expenses attributable to the earning of income. And,
it has consistently been the practice to compute the
income of an AFDC applicant on an individual basis.

SHEA v. VIALPANDO
251

Opinion of the Court

From the inception of the Act, Congress has sought
to ensure that AFDC assistance is provided only to
needy families, and that the amount. of assistance actually paid is based on the amount needed in the individual
case after other income and resources are considered.'
Congress has been careful to ensure that all of the income and resources properly attributable to a particular
applicant be taken into account, and this individualized
approach has been reflected in the implementing regulations. For example, HEW's broad definition of
"earned income" as "income in cash or in kind earned
by a needy individual through the receipt of wages,
salary, commissions, or profit from activities in which
he is -magaged as a self-employed individual or as an
employee," 45 CFR § 233.20 (a)(6)(iii), and its more
specific descriptions of commissioned, salaried, and selfemployment derived income in 45 CFR §§ 233.20 (a) (6)
(iv-viii)," demonstrate its view that the determination
9 See generally 42 U. S. C. § 601; H. R. Doc. No. 81, 74th Cong.,
1st Sess. (1935); H. R. Rep. No. 615, 74th Cong., 1st Seas: .(1935);
S. Rep. No. 628, 74th Cong., 1st Sess. (1935); E. Witte, The Development of the Social Security Act 163-164 (1962).
10Title 45 CFR § 233.20 (a) (6) provides in part:

"(iv) With reference to commissions, wages, or salary, the term.
'earned income' means the total amount, irrespective of personal
expenses, such as income-tax deductions, lunches, and transportation to and from work, and irrespective of expenses of
employment which are not personal, such as the cost of tools,
materials, special uniforms, or transportation to call on customers.
"(v) With respect to self-employment, the term 'earned income'
means the total profit from business enterprise, farming, etc., resulting from a comparison of the gross income received with the 'business expenses,' i. e., total cost of the production of the income.
Personal expenses, such as income-tax payments, lunches, and transmportation to and from work, are not classified as business expenses.
"(vi) The definition shall exclude the following from 'earned
income': Returns from capital investment with respect to which the

OCTOBER TERM, 1973

Opinion of the Court

416 U. S.

of need in each case is to be based upon an assessment
of the particular individual's available income and resources. Moreover, individualized consideration of available income and resources is clearly contemplated by
HEW regulations providing for the exclusion of such
items as scholarship funds and loans, see 45 CFR §§ 233.20
(a) (3) (ii-vii), and requiring that certain items such as
food stamps be, deducted, 45 CFR § 233.20 (a)(4).
Thus, if income and expenses related to the production
of income are to be treated alike, as the terms of § 402
(a) (7) appear to require, both must be considered on an
individualized basis.1'
individual is not himself actively engaged, as in a business (for
example, under most circumstances, dividends and interest would
be excluded from 'earned income'); benefits (not in the nature of
wages, salary, or profit) accruing as compensation, or reward for
service, or as compensation for lack of employment ....
"(vii) With regard to the degree of activity, earned income is
income produced as a result. of the performance of services by a
recipient; in other words, income which the individual earns by his
own efforts, including managerial responsibilities, would be properly
classified as earned income, such as management of capital investment in real estate. Conversely, for example, in the instance of
capital investment wherein the individual carries no specific responsibility, such as where rental properties are in the hands of rental
agencies and the check i; forwarded to the recipient, the income
would not be classified as earned income.
"(viii) Reserves accumulated from earnings are given no different
treatment than reserves accumulated from any other sources."
"I Petitioners claim that HEW has permitted the use of standard
work-expense allowances in recognition of the practical necessities
of administration and that the Department's construction of its own
regulations is entitled to great weight. See Red Lion Broadcasting
Co. v. FCC, 395 U. S. 367 (1969); Udall v. Tallman, 380 U. S. 1
(1965). But the sound principle of according deference to administrative practice normally applies only where the relevant statutory
language is unclear or susceptible of differing interpretations. See,
e. g., Townsend v. Swank, 404 U. S. 282, 286 (1971). In view of
the literal requirements of § 402 (a) (7), which accord with the

SHEA v. VIALPANDO
251

Opinion of the Court

The literal import of § 402 (a) (7) is confirmed by the
statute's legislative history. The congressional purpose
in requiring the States to take into. consideration employment expenses was clearly set forth in S. Rep. No.
1589,87th Cong., 2d Sess., 17-18 (1962), which explained:
"Under present law . . . States are permitted,
but not required, to take into consideration the
expenses an individual has in earning any income
(this practice is not uniform in the country and in
a substantial number of States full consideratio:a- of
such expenses is not given). The committee believes that 'it is only "reasonable for the States to
take these expenses fully into account. Under existing law if these work expenses are not considered
in determining need, they have the effect of providing a disincentive to working since that portion of
the family budget spent for work .expenses ha, the
effect of reducing the amount available for :ood,
clothing, and shelter. The bill has, therefore, added
a provision in all assistance titles requiring the
States to give consideration to any expenses reasonably attributable to the earning of income." (Emphasis added.)
Virtually identical language appears in the House Report. See H. R. Rep. No. 1414, 87th Cong., 2d Sess., 23
(1962).
federal policy underlying its enactment, we need not look to agency
practice in this case. Moreover, HEW itself has not adhered to a
uniform practice. Although in recent years HEW has construed
§ 402 (a) (7) to permit standardization of some items, in 1964
it required that "[i]tems of work expenses must be allowed when
there is a determination that such expenses do, in fact, exist in the
individual case." HEW, Handbook of Public Assistance Adm nistration, Part IV, § 1340 (1964).

OCTOBER TERM, 1973

264

Opinion of the Court

416 U. S.

Congress thus sought to encourage AFDC recipients
to secure and retain employment by requiring the States
to take into account fully any expenses attributable to
the earning of income in determining eligibility for assistance. Such expenses reduce the level of actually
available income, and if not deducted from gross income
will not produce a corresponding increase in AFDC assistance. Failing to allow the deduction of reasonable
expenses might well discourage the applicant from seeking or retaining employment whereby such expenses are
incurred. Section 402 (a) (7) was aimed at removing
As then-Secretary- of HEW Ribicoff
this disincentive.
explained the legislation in testimony before the Senate:
"[W]e are trying to do... everything we can to encourage people to get a job and work and we feel it is
important to encourage the States. By having this
provision, the State will take into account these expenses so people will get jobs. I believe that the
State should give them an allowance for those items
that are necessary for them to get the job." Hearings on the Public Assistance Act of 1962 before the
Senate Committee on-Finance, 87th Cong., 2d Sess.,
152 (1962).12
Standardized treatment of employment-related expenses without provision for demonstrating actual and
reasonable expenses in excess of that standard amount,
Our interpretation of § 402 (a) (7) is also supported by the disinclination of the Congress to amend the section to permit the use
of various standardized allowances. See H. R. 16311, 91st Cong.,
2d Sess., § 101 (1970); H. R. 1, 92d Cong., 1st Sess., § 401
(1971). In explaining the latter bill, which would have replaced
12

the present work-expense provision with an increase inthe earned
income disregard of § 402 (a) (8) (A) (ii), the Committee on Ways

and Means observed that it "would eliminate the open-ended work
expense exclusion . .

. ."

H. R. Rep. No. 92-231, p. 177 (1971).

also S. 2311, ard H. R. 3153, 93d Cong., 1st Sess. (1973).

See

SHEA v. VIALPANDO

251

-Opinion of the Court

such as Colorado has adopted, threatens to defeat the
goal Congress sought to achieve in adopting the mandatory work-expense recognition' provisions of § 402 (a) (7).
By limiting employment expenses to $30 per month, the
Colorado regulation results in a disincentive to seek or
retain employment for all recipients whose reasonable
work-related expenses exceed or would exceed that
amount. Accordingly, the Colorado regulation conflicts
with federal law -and is therefore invalid.
It is, of. course, not the adoption of a standardized workexpense allowance per se which we hold to be violative
of § 402 (a) (7) of the Act, but the fact that the standard used by Colorado is in effect a maximum or absolute
limitation upon the recognition of such expenses. As
the Court of Appeals correctly observed, a standard allowance would be permissible, and would substantially
serve petitioners' interests in administrative efficiency, if
it provided for individualized consideration of expenses
in excess of the standard amount. See 475 F. 2d, at 735.
See also Anderson v. Graham, 492 F. 2d 986 (CA8 1973);
Adams v. Parham, Civ'. No. 16041 (ND Ga. Apr. 14,
1972) (unpublished); and Campagnuolo v. White, Civ.
No. 13968 (Conn. June 22, 1972) (unpublished). Such
a standard allowance would comport fully with the statutory requirement -that any reasonable work expenses be
considered, and would allow individualized treatment
13
where necessary.
13 The Court's observation in I"osado v. Wyman, 397 U. S. 397,
419 (1970), that "[w]e do not, of course, hold that New York may
not, consistently with the federal statutes, consolidate items on
the basis of statistical averages," was in no sense intended as a
blanket approval of the principle of averaging under AFDC programs without regard to what is being averaged. In that case, the
Court found a New York statute fixing maximum AFDC allowances
per family and eliminating a "special grants" program, to be in
contravention of § 402 (a) (23) of the Act. In holding that New

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of the Court

416 U. S.

As the Court has previously observed, the AFDC program is an area in which Congress at times "has voiced
its wishes in muted strains and left it to the courts to
discern the theme in the cacophony of political understanding." Rosado v. Wyman, 397 U. S., a- 412. But
as to reasonable expanses attributable to the earning )f
income, Congress has spoken with firmness and clarity.
The judgment is affirmed.
It is so ordered.

York could not completely eliminate such items from the standard
of need, the Court noted that the State could, consistently with the
statute, include them through the use of statistical averages. A
statewide standard of need is, however, but an estimate by state
welfare officials of the minimum financial requirements of a hypothetical family, and by its very nature is susceptible'of computation
through the use of statistical averages. Moreover, the discretion
granted the States by Congress in determining need, see King v. Smith,
392 U. S. 309, 318 n.-14 (1968), contrasts sharply w.th the statutory
requirement of § 402 (a) (7) ihat any expenses reasonably attributable
to the earnings of income be considered. In the face of that statutory command .and the clear statement of congressional purpose, we
must Also, reject petitioners' claims of administrative efficiency or
convenience. See Rosado v. Wyman, supra,at 417.
We also note that 'Colorado's use of a standard work-expense
allowance is not justified by. its undisputed power to set the level
of benefits under the AFDC program. Sea Rosado v. Wyman,
supra; Jefferson v. Hackney, 406 U. S. b35 (1972). Although Colorado may adjust the percentage of need which it has agreed to pay
all recipients -through its power to determine AF)C funding, see
King v. Smith, supra, it may not do so in a manner that violates a
specific requirement of the Act. See Connecticut State Dept. of Pub.
Welfare v. HEW, 448 F. 2d 209 (CA2 1971).

