AIR POLLUTION VARIANCE BD. v. WESTERN ALFALFA

861

Syllabus

AIR POLLUTION VARIANCE BOARD OF COLORADO v. WESTERN ALFALFA CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF. COLORADO

No. 73-690.

Argued April 25, 1974-Decidbd May 20, 1974

A state health inspector entered respondent's -outdoor premises in
the daylight without its knowledge or consent and without a
warrant, to make an opacity test of smoke being emitted from
respondent's chimneys. In a hearing reqtiested by respondent,
the Colorado Air Pollution Variance Board on the basis of such
test found the emissions violated the state act, denied respondent
a variance, and entered a cease-and-desist order. The County
District Court set aside the Board's decision, and the Colorado
Court of Appeals affirmed, holding that the test constituted an
unreasonable search within the meaming of the Fourth Aniendment.
Held: The Fourth Amendment, made applicable to the States by
the Fourteenth, does not exteud to sights seen in "the open fields,"
Hester v. United States, 265 U. S. 57, 59, such as here where the
ihspector did not enter the respondent's plant or offices but had
sighted what anyone who was n&ir the plant could see in the sky.
Pp. 864-865.
510 P. 2d 907, reversed and remanded.
DouGLs, J., delivered the opinion for a-unanimous Court.

William Tucker, Assistant Attorney General of ColorAdo, argued the cause for petitioner. With him on the
brief were John P. Moore, Att6rney General, John E.
Bush, Deputy Attorney General, and John Brown, SpecialAssistant Attorney General.

Donald D. Cawelti argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief was George D ,Blackwood,'Jr.
Edmund W. Kitch argued the cause for the United

States as amicus curiae urging reversal.

.A.9-'"

'-. -75

- 59

Qn the brief

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of the Court

416-U. S.

were Solicitor General Bork, Assistant Attorney General
Johnson, HarrietS. Shapiro, and Edmund B. Clark.*
MR. JUSTICE DouGLAs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
An inspector of a division of the Colorado Department of Health entered the outdoor premises of respondent without its knowledge or consent. It was daylight
*Briefs of a-jici curiae urging reversal were filed by William J.
Brown, Attorney General, and Richard P. Fahey and John Eufinger,
Assistant Attorneys General, for the the State of Ohio; and by the
Attorneys General and other officials for 34 States'as follows: Evelle
J.- Younger, Attorney General of California, Robert H. O'Brien, As_sistant Attorney General, and Nicholas C. Yost, C. Foster Knight,
and Daniel J. Taaffe, Deputy Attorneys General; Gary K. Nelson,
Attorney General of Arizona; Jim Guy Tucker, Attorney General of
Arkansas; Robert K. Killian, Attorney General of Connecticut;
Arthur K. Bolton, Attorney General of Georgia; George Pai, Attoruey. General of Hawaii; W. Anthony Park, Attorney General of
Idaho; William, J. Scott, Attorney General of Illinois; Richard C.
Turner, Attorney General of Iowa, and Clifford Peterson, Assistant
Attorpey General; Ven Miller, Attorney General of Kansas; Ed W.
Hancock, Attorney General of Kentucky; William J. Guste, Jr.,
Attorney General of Louisiana; Jon A. Lund, Attorney General of
Maine; Francis B. Burch, Attorney General of Maryland, and
Martin A. Ferris III, Special Assistant Attorney General; Robert H.
Quinn, Attorney General of Massachusetts.; Fra*k J. Kelley, Attarney General of Michigan; Warren R. Spannaus, Attorney General of
Minnesota; Clarence A. H. Meyer, Attorney General of Nebraska;
Robert List, Attorney General of Nevada; .Warren B. Rudman,
Attorney General of New Hampshire, and Donald W. Stever, Assistant Attorney General; William F. Hyland, Attorney General of New
Jersey; David L. Norvell, Attorney General of New Mexico; Louis
J. Lefkowitz, Attorney General of New York; , Robert Morgan, Attorney General of North Carolina; Allen I. Olson, Attorney General
of North Dakota; Larry Derryberry, Attorney General of Oklahoma; Lee Johnson,.Attorney General of Oregon; Richard J. Israel,
Attorney General of Rhode Island; Daniel R. McLeod, Attorney
General of South Carolina; Kermit A. Sande, Attorney General of

AIR POLLUTION VARIANCE BD. v. WESTERN ALFALFA
861

8M.

Opinion of the Court

and the inspector entered the yard to malke a Ringel6mann test 1 of plumes of smoke being emitted from
respondent's chimneys. Since that time Colorado has
adopted a requirement for a search warrant for violations of air quality standards. 2 At the time of the
instant inspection the state law required no warrant
and none was sought. Indeed, thA.• inspector entered no
part of respondent's plant to make the inspection.
A federal Act under the administration of the'Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) sets certain air quality
standards, 81 Stat. 485, 42 U. S. C. § 1857 et seq. The
States have the primary responsibility to assure the maintenance of air quality standards, 42 U. S,C..§ 1857c-2 (a).
Yet if the EPA has approved or promulgated "an applicable implementation" plan, a State may not adopt or
enforce a "less stringent" one, 42 U. S. C. §,1857d-1..
There is no conflict between a federal standard and state
action, the sole question presented being whether Colorado has violated -federal constitutional procedures in
making the inspection in the manner described..
.Respondent requested -a hearing before Colorado's Air
Pollution Variance Board. The Board held a hearing
South Dakota,, David M. Pack, Attorney General of Tennessee;
John L. Hill, Attorney General of Texas; Chauncey H. Browning, Jr.,
Attorney General of West Virginia; Robert W. Warren, Attorney
General of Wisconsin, and Theodore L. Priebe, Assistant 'Attorney
General.
'This test is prescribed by Colo. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 66-29-5.
(Supp. 1967). It requires a trained inspector to stand in a position
where he has an unobstructed view of the smoke plume, observe
the smoke, and rate it according to the opacity scale of the Ringelmann chart. The person using the. chart matches the color and
density of the smoke plume. with the numbered example on the
chart. The Ringelmann test is generally sanctioned for use in
measuring air pollution. See cases collected in'Portland v. Fry
Roofing Co., 3 Ore. App. 352, 355-358, 472 P. 2d 826, 827-829.
21Colo. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 66L29-8 (2) (d)' (Supp. 1669).

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of the Court

416 U.S.

and found that respondent's emissions were in violation
of the state Act.' While the test challenged here was
made on June 4, 1969, the Board after noting that Colorado's Health Department had been in conference with
respondent "in regard to its air pollution violations since
September, 1967," after approving the readings made by
the field inspector on the day in question, and after
holding that tests submitted in rebuttal by respondent
were not acceptable, denied a variance and entered a
cease-and-desist order. Respondent sought review in
the District Court for Weld County which set aside
the Board's decision. The Colorado Court of Appeals
affirmed, 510 P. 2d 907; and the Supreme Court denied
certiorari.
The petition for certiorari which we granted, 414 U. S.
1156, raised three questions, presenting in differing postures questions under the Fourth Amendment, made
applicable to the States by the Fourteenth. Mapp v.
Ohio, 367 U. S. 643.
The main. thrust of the opinion of the Court of Appeals is directed at the Fourth Amendment problem. It
heldP that under Camara V. Municipal Court, 387 U. S.
523,- and &e v. City of Seattle-, 387 U. S. 541, the act of
conducting the tests on the premises of respondent without either a warrant or -the c6fisent 'of anyone from respondent constituted an unreasonable search within the
meaning of the Fourth Amendment. We adhere to
Camara and See btit we think they are not applicable
here. The field inspector did not enter the plant or
offices., He was not inspecting stacks,' boilers; scrubbers,
8

The Air Pollution Variance Board, after the Division of Administration; Colorado Department of Health, had issued a ceaseand-desist order, received a request from respondent for a hearing

which was granted and held September 11, 1969.
4 EPA studies indicate that tests of stacks are expeisive and may
require 300 man-hours of skilled work. 39 Fed. Reg. 9309. And

AIR POLLUTION VARIANCE.BD. v. WESTERN ALFALFA

861

865

Opinion of the Court

flues, grates, or furnaces; nor was his. inspection related
to respondent's files or papers. He had sighted what
anyone in the city who was near the plant could see in
the sky-plumes of smoke. The Court in Hester v.
United States, 265 U. S. 57, 59, speaking through Mr.
Justice Holmes, refused to extend the Fourth Amendment
to sights seen in "the. open fields." The field inspector
was on respondent's property but we are not advised that
he was on premises from which the public was excluded.
Under the Noise Control Act of 1972, 86 Stat. 1234, 42
U. S. C. § 4901 et.seq. (1970 ed., Supp. II), an inspector
may enter a railroad right-of-way to determine whether
noise standards are being violated. The invasion of
privacy in either that case or the present one, if it can be
said to exist, is abstract and theoretical. The EPA regulation for conducting an opacity test requires the inspector to stand at a distance equivalent to approximately
two stack heights away but not more than a quarter of a
mile from -the base of the stack with the sun to his back
from a vantage point perpendicular to the plume; and he
must take at least 25 readings, recording the data at 15to 30-second intervals. Depending upon the layout of
the plant, the inspector may operate within or without
the premises but in either case he is well within the "open
fields" exception to. the Fourth Amendment approved in
Hester.
The Court of Appeals went on to say that since respondent was not aware that the inspector had been on
the premises until the cease-and-desist notice, the hearing
it received "lacked the fundamental elements of due
process of law, since, the secret nature of the investigasee Schulze, The Economics of Environmental Quality Measurement,
23 J. Air Poll Control Assn. 6.71 (1973); 40 CFR § 60.85,
Method 9.

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of the Court

416 U. S.

ticn foreclosed Western from putting on any rebuttal
.eviderme."
Whether the Court referred to Colorado "due process"
or Fourteenth Amendment "due process" is not clear.'
If it is the former, the question is a matter of state*law
bcyond our purview. Since we are unsure of the grounds
of that ruling we intimate no opinion on that issue.
But on our remand we leave open that 7 and any other
questions that may be lurking in the case.
Reversed and remanded.

010P. 2d, at 909.
6

1n the District Court's opinion it is said that one challenge to
the hearing before the Variance Board -was "whether or not due.
process of law And equal protection cd the law coitiary to the
14th Amendment of the Constitution uf the United States and
Section 25, Article 2 of the Constitution of the State of Colorado

was denied" by the Board. App. 136.
7See California v. Krivda, 409 U. S. 33; Department of Mental
Hygiene v. Kirchner, 380 U. S. 194; Minnesota v. National Tea Co.,
309 U. S. 551.

