OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Syllabus

416 U. S.

ARNETT, DIRECTOR, OFFICE OF ECONOMIC
OPPORTUNITY, ET AL. V. KENNEDY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS

No. 72-1118.

Argued November 7, 1973-Decided April 16, 1974

ippellee, a nonprobationary employee in the competitive Civil
*Service, was dismissed from his position in the Office of Economic
Opportunity (OEO) for allegedly having made recklessly false and
defamatory statements about other OEO employees. Though
previously advised of his right under OEO and Civil Service
Commission (CSC) regulations to reply to the charges and that the
material on which the dismissal notice was based was available for
his inspection, he did not respond to the substance of the charges
but brought this suit for injunctive and declaratory relief, contending that the standards and procedures established by and under the
Lloyd-La Follette Act, 5 U. S. C. § 7501, for the removal of nonprobationary employees from the federal service unwarrantedly interfere with such employees' freedom of expression and deny them
procedural due process. A three-judge District Court held that the
Act and attendant regulations denied appellee due process because
they failed to provide for a trial-type preremoval hearing before an
impartial official and were unconstitutionally vague because they
failed to furnish sufficiently precise guidelines as to. what
kind of speech might be made the basis for removal action.
Section 7501 of the Act provides for removal of nonprobationary
federal employees "only for such cause as will promote the efficiency of the service" and prescribes that the employing agency
must furnish the employee with written notice of the proposed
removal action and a copy of the charges; give him a reasonable
time for a written answer and supporting affidavits; and promptly
furnish him with ihe agency's decision. The Act further provides,
however, that "[e]xamination of witnesses, trial, or hearing is not
required," but is discretionary with the individual directing the
removal. CSC and OEQ regulations enlarge the statutory provisions by requiring 30 days' advance notice before removal and
in other respects, and entitle the employee to a post-removal
evidentiary trial-type hearing at the appeal stage. If the employee is reinstated on appeal, he receives full backpay.' In addi-

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

Syllabus

tion to his First Amendment claims, appellee contends that, absent
a full adversary hearing before removal, he could not consistently
with due process requirements be divested of his property interest
or expectancy in employment or be deprived of his "liberty" to
refute the charges of dishonesty on which he asserts his dismissal
was based. Held: The judgment is reversed and the case remanded.
Pp. 148-171.
349 F. Supp. 863, reversed and remanded.
MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST, joined by THE CHIEF JUSTICE and
MR. JUSTICE STEWART, concluded that:
1. In conferring upon nonprobationary federal employees the
right not to be discharged except for "cause" and at the same
time conditioning the grant of that right by procedural limitations,
the Act did not create and the Due Process Clause does not
require any additional expectancy of job retention. Cf. Board of
Regents v. Roth, 408 U. S. 564, 577. Pp. 148-155.
..2. The CSC and OEO post-termination hearing procedures adequately protect the liberty interest of federal employees, recognized
in Roth, supra, in not being' wrongfully stigmatized by-untrue
and unsupported administrative charges. Pp. 156-158.
3. The Act's standard of employment protection, which describes
as explicitly as is feasible in view of the wide variety of factual
situations where employees' statements might justify dismissal for
"cause" the conduct that is ground for removal, is not impermissibly vague or overbroad in regulating federal employees'
speech. CSC v. Letter Carriers, 413 U. S. 548, 578-579. Pp.
158-163.
MR. JUSTICE POWELL, joined by MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN, while
agreeing that 5 U. S. C. § 7501 (a) is not unconstitutionally vague
or-overbroad, concluded with respect to the due process issue that
appellee, as a nonprobationary federal employee who could be
discharged only for "cause," had a legitimate claim of entitlement
to. a property interest under the Fifth Amendment and his employment could not be terminated without notice and a full
evidentiary hearing. On the other hand, the Government as an
employer must have discretion expeditiously to remove employees
who hinder efficient operation. Since the procedures under the
Act and regulations minimize the risk of error in the initial
removal decision and provide for a post-removal evidentiary hearing with reinstatement and backpay should that decision be
wrongful, a reasonable accommodation comporting with due proc-

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of

REHNQUIST, J.

416 U. S.

ess is
' provided between the competing interests of the employee
and the Government as employer. Pp. 164-171.
REHNQUIST, J., announced the Court's judgment and delivered
an opinion, in which BURGER, C. J., and STEWART, J., joined.
POWELL, J., filed an opinion concurring in part and concurring in
the result in part, in which BLACKMUN, J., joined, post, p. 164.
WHITE, J., filed
an opinion concur-ring in part and dissenting in part,
post, p. 171. DOUGLAS, J., filed a dissenting opinion, post, p. 203.
MARSHALL, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which DOUGLAS and
BRENNAN, JJ., joined, post, p. 206.

Daniel M. Friedman argued the cause for appellants.
On the brief were Solicitor -General Bork, Assistant Attorney General Wood; Keith A. Jones, Walter H. Fleischer, and William Kanter.
Charles Barnhill, Jr., argued the cause for appellee-.
With him on the brief were Judson H. Miner and Leo
Pellerzi.*
MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST announced the judgment of
the Court in an opinion in which TIIE CHIEF JUSTICE and
MR. JUSTICE STEWART join.

Prior to the events leading to his discharge, appellee
Wayne Kennedy 1 was a nonprobationary federal em*Mozart G. Ratner end Jerry D. Anker filed a brief for the National Association of Letter Carriers, AFL-CIO, et al. as amici
curiae urging affirmance.
1"Appellee" refers to appellee Wayne Kennedy, the named
plaintiff in the original complaint. The participation of the 18
other named plaintiffs, who were added in the amended complaint,
see n. 3, infra, appears to have been little more than nominal. The
amended complaint alleged that the added named plaintiffs' exercise
of their rights of free speech were chilled. because they feared that
any off-duty public comments made by them would constitute
grounds for discharge or punishment under the Lloyd-La Follette
Act. Two conclusory affidavits supporting that bare allegation (one
signed by one of the added named plaintiffs, the other by the

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

Opinion of

REHNQUIST, J.

ployee in the competitive Civil Ser'vice. He was a field
representative in the Chicago Regional Office of the
Office of Economic Opportunity (OEO).
In March
1972, he was removedI from the federal service pursuant
to the provisions of the Lloyd-La Follette Act, 5 U. S. C.
§ 7501, after Wendell Verduin, the Regional Director of
the OEO, upheld written administrative charges made in
the form of a "Notification.of Proposed Adverse Action"
against appellee. The charges listed five events occurring
in November and December 1971; the most serious of
the charges was that appellee "without any proof whatsoever and in reckless disregard of the actual facts"
known to him or reasonably discoverable by him had
publicly stated that Verduin and his administrative
assistant had attempted to bribe a representative of a
community action organization with which the OEO had
dealings. The alleged bribe consisted of an offer of a
$100,000 grant of OEO funds if the representative
would sign a statement against appellee and another
OEO employee.
Appellee was advised of his right under regulations
promulgated by the Civil Service Commission and the
OEO to reply to the charges orally and in writing, and
to submit affidavits to Verduin. He was also advised
that the material on which the notice was based was
available for his inspection in the Regional Office, and
that a copy of the material was attached to the notice of
proposed adverse action.
Appellee did not respond to the substance of the
charges against him, but instead asserted that the charges
were unlawful because he had a right to a trial-type hearing before an impartial hearing officer before he could
be removed from his employment, and because stateremaining 17) were filed -inconnection with plaintiffs' motion for
summary judgment or temporary injunctive relief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
"'ion
6 of

REHNQUIST, J.

416 U. S.

ments made by him were protected by the First Amendment to the United States Constitution 2 On March 20,
1972, Verduin notified appellee in writing that he would
be removed from his position at the close of business on
March 27, 1972. Appellee was also notified of his right
to appeal Verduin's decision either to the OEO or to the
Civil Service Commission.
Appellee then 'instituted this suit in the United States
District Court for the Northern District of Illinois on
behalf of himself and others similarly situated, seeking
both injunctive and declaratory relief. In his amended
complaint,3 appellee contended that the standards
and procedures established by and under the LloydLa Follette Act for the removal of nonprobationary emof Proposed Adverse
2 Appellee's response to the "Notification
Action," made through counsel, set forth briefly his position that
the charges against hirp were unlawful under the Fifth and First
Amendments. One of the three sentences devoted to his First
Amendment claim noted parenthetically that the "conversations ...
with union members and the public" for which he was being punished
were "inaccurately set forth in the adverse action." Appellee's
response did not explain in what respects the charges against him
were inaccurate, nor did it offer any alternative version of the
events described in the charges.
3Appell-e's original complaint, filed March 27, 1972, contained
two counts. In the first count appellee sought, on behalf of himself
and others similarly situated, to enjoin his removal pending a full,
trial-type hearing before an impartial hearing officer. In the
second count appellee sought to enjoin his removal for the exercise
of his rights of free speech. The single-judge court referred the
constitutional question presented in the first count to a three-judge
court, and dismissed the second count pending appellee's exhaustion
of available administrative remedies before the Civil Service ComAppellee then amended the second count of his commission.
plaint to allege, on behalf of himself, 18 added named plaintiffs,
see n. 1, supra, and others similarly situated, that the loydLa Follette Act's removal standard was unconstitutionally vague and
overbroad and violated the plaintiffs' First Amendment rights.

ARNETT v. KENNEDY

134

Opinion of

REHNQUIST, J.

ployees from the federal service unwarrantedly interfere
with those employees' freedom of expression and deny
them procedural due process of law. The three-judge
District Court, convened pursuant to 28 U. S. C. §§ 2282
and 2284, granted summary judgment for appellee. 349
F. Supp. 863. The court held that the discharge procedures authorized by the Act and attendant Civil Service
Commission and OEO regulations denied appellee due
process of law because they failed to provide for a trialtype hearing before an impartial agency official prior to
removal; the court also held the Act and implementing
regulations unconstitutionally vague because they failed
to furnish sufficiently precise guidelines as to what kind of
speech may be made the basis of a removal action. The
court ordered that appellee be reinstated in his former
position with backpay, and that he be accorded a hearing
prior to removal in any futtire removal proceedings. Appellants were also enjoined from further enforcement of
the Lloyd-La Follette Act, and implementing rules, as
"construed to regulate the speech of competitive service
employees.) 4
I
The numerous affidavits submitted to the District
Court by both parties not unexpectedly portray two
widely differing versions of the facts which gave rise
to this lawsuit. Since the District Court granted summary judgment to appellee, it was required to resolve
all genuine disputes as to any material facts in favor- of
appellants, and we therefore take as true for purposes
4The court ordered Appellee's reinstatement but deferred determination whether the suit was maintainable as a class action.
Appellee's appeal to the Civil Service Commission was first delayed
as a result. of'%he pendency. of this suit,. then "terminated" because
of appellee's reinstatement following the decision of the District
Court.

OCTOBER-TERM, 1973

Opinion ,of REHNQUIST, J.

416 U. S.

of this opinion the material particulars of appellee's
conduct which were set forth in the notification of proposed adverse action dated February 18, 1972. The
District Court's holding necessarily embodies the legal
conclusions that, even though all of these factual statements were true, the procedure which the Government
proposed to follow in this case was constitutionally
insufficient to accomplish appellee's discharge, and the
standard by which his conduct was to be judged in the
course of those procedures infringed his right of free
speech protected by the First Amendment.
The statutory provisions which the District Court held
invalid are found in 5 U. S. C. § 7501. Subsection (a)
of that section provides that "[a]n individual in the
competitive service may be removed or suspended without pay only for such cause as will promote the efficiency
of the service."
Subsection (b) establishes the administrative procedures by which an employee's rights under subsection
(a) are to be determined, providing:
"(b) An individual in the competitive service whose
removal or suspension without pay is sought is
entitled to reasons in writing and to"(1) notice of the action sought and of any
charges preferred against him;
"(2) a copy of the charges;
"(3) a reasonable time for filing a written answer
to the charges, with affidavits; and
"(4) a written decision on the answer at the
earliest practicable date.
"Examination of witnesses, trial, or hearing is not
required but may be provided in the discretion of
the individual directing the removal or suspension
without pay. Copies of the charges, the notice of
hearing, the answer, the reasons for and the order

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

Opinion of

REHNQUIST,

J.

of removal or suspension without pay, and also the
reasons for reduction in grade or pay, shall be made
a part of the records of the employing agency, and,
on request, shall be furnished to the individual
affected and to the Civil Service Commission."
This codification of the Lloyd-La Follette Act is now
supplemented by the regulations of the Civil Service
Commission, and, with respect to the OEO, by the regulations and, instructions of that agency. Both the Commission and the OEO have by regulation given further
specific content to the general removal standard in subsection (a) of the Act. The regulations of the Commission ' and the OEO,' in nearly identical language, re55 CFR §§ 735.201a, 735.209. Section 735.201a provides:
"An employee shall avoid any action, whether or not specifically
prohibited by this subpart, which might result in, or create the
appearance of:
"(a) Using public office for private gain:
"(b) Giving preferential treatment to any person;
"(c) Impeding Government efficiency or economy;
"(d) Losing complete independence or impartiality;
"(e) Making a Government decision outside official channels; or
"(f) Affecting adversely the confidence of the public in the
integrity of the Government."
Section 735.209 provides:
"An employee shall not engage in criminal, infamous, dishonest,
immoral, or notoriously disgraceful conduct, or other con .uct prejudicial to the Government."
6 45 CFR §§ 1015.735--1, 1015.735-24.
Section 1015.735-'. provides:
"The purpose of this part is to guide OEO employ,es toward
maintaining the high standard of integrity expected of Ell Government employees. It is intended to require that employees avoid
any action which might result in, or create the appearance of:
"(a) Using public office for private gain;
"(b) Giving preferential treatment to any organization or person;
"(c) Impeding Government efficiency or economy;
"(d) Making a Government decision outside official channels;
"(e) Losing complete independence or impartiality of action; or

536-272 0 - 75 - 14

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of

REHNQUIST,

J.

416 U. S.

quire that employees "avoid any action ... which might
result in, or create the appearance of ... [a]ffecting adversely the confidence of the public in the integrity of
[OEO and] the Government," and that employees not
"engage in criminal, infamous, dishonest, immoral, or notoriously disgraceful or other conduct prejudicial to the
Government." The OEO further provides by regulation
thafits Office of General Counsel is available to supply
counseling on the interpretation of the- laws and regulations relevant to the conduct of OEO employees.!
Both the Commission and the OEO also follow regu-

lations enlarging the procedural protections accorded by
the Act itself.'

The Commission's regulations provide,

"(f) Affecting adversely the confidence of the public in the
integrity of OEO and the Government."
Section 1015.735-24 provides:
"No employee shall engage in criminal, infamous; dishonest,
immoral, or notoriously disgraceful conduct or other conduct prejudicial to the Government."
145 CFR § 1015.735-4. Section 1015.735-4 provides:
"The Office of General Counsel of OEO is available to advise on
the interpretation of the provisions of this part and the other laws
and regulations relevant to the conduct of OEO employees. The
General Counsel is designated as OEO coupselor for this purpose."
8 The Civif Service Commission regulations governing procedures
for adverse actions implement, in addition to the Lloyd-La Follette
Act, the Veterans' Preference Act of 1944 and Executive Order No.
11491. The Veterans' Preference Act, Act of June 27, 1944, c. 287,
58 Stat. 387, imposed procedural requirements for processing adverse
actions in addition to those imposed by the Lloyd-La Follette Act.
Those additional requirements include an opportunity for the employee to respond orally or in writing to the charges on which his dismissal is based; the Veterans' Preference Act also authorizes Civil
Service Commission appeals from adverse agency decisions. See 5
U. S. C. § 7701. The Act itself applies only to veterans of military
service, 5 U. S. C. §§ 2108, 7511, but Executive Order No. 11491,
printed in note following 5 U. S. C. § 7301, extends the Act's protections to all nonpreference eligible employees in the classified service.

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

Opinion of

REHNQUIST, J.

inter alia, that the employing agency must give 30
days' advance written notice to the employee prior to
removal, and make available to him the material on

which the notice is based.' They also provide that the
employee shall have an opportunity to appear before
the official vested with authority to make the removal
decision in order to answer the charges against him,10
95 CFR § 752.202 (a).

Section 752202 (a) provides:
"(a) Notice of proposed adverse action. (1) Except as provided
inparagraph (c) of this section, an employee against whom adverse
action is sought is entitled to at least 30 full days' advance written
notice stating any and all reasons, specifically and in detail, for
the proposed action.
"(2) Subject to the provisions of subparagraph (3) of this para.graph, the material on which the notice is based and which is relied
on to support. the reasons in that notice, including statements of
witnesses, documents, and investigative reports or extracts therefrom, shall be assembled and made available to the employee for
his review. The notice shall inform the employee where he may
review that material.
"(3) Material which cannot be disclosed to the employee, or to
his designated physician under § 294.401 of this chapter, may not
be used by an agency to support the reasons in the notice."
105 CFR § 752.202 (b). Section 752.202 (b) provides:
"(b) Employee's answer. Except as provided in paragraph (c)
of this section, an employee is entitled to a reasonable time for
answering a notice of proposed adverse action and for furnishing
affidavits in support of his answer. The time to be allowed depends
on the facts and circumstances of the case, and shall be sufficient
to afford the employee ample opportunity to review the material
relied on by the agency to support the reasons in the notice and to
prepare an answer and secure affidavits. The agency shall provide
the employee a reasonable amount of official time for these purposes
if he is otherwise in an active duty status. If the employee
answers, the agency shall consider his answer in reaching its decision. The employee is entitled to answer personally, or in writing,
or both personally and in writing. The right to answer personally
includes the right to answer orally in person by being given a
reasonable opportunity to make any representations which the employee believes might sway the final decision on his case, but does

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of

REHNQUIST,

J.

416 U. S.

that the employee must receive notice of an adverse
decision on or before its effective date, 'and that the
employee may appeal from an adverse decision." This
appeal may be either to a reviewing authority within
the employing agency," or directly to the Commisnot include the right to a trial or formal hearing with examination
of witnesses. When the employee requests an opportunity to
answer personally, the agency shall make a representative or representatives available to hear his answer. The representative or
representatives designated to hear the answer shall be persons who
have authority either to make a final decision on the proposed
adverse action or to recommend what final decision should be made."
115 CFR § 752.202 (f). Section 752.202 (f) provides:
"(f) Notice of adverse decision. The employee is entitled to
notice of the agency's decision at the earliest practicable date. The
agency shall deliver the notice of decision to the employee at or
before the time the action will be made effective. The notice shall
be in writing, be dated, and inform the employee:
"(1) Which of the reasons in the notice of proposed adverse
action have been found sustained and which have been found not
sustained;
"(2) Of his right of appeal to the appropriate office of the
Commission;
"(3) Of any right of appeal to the agency under Subpart B of
Part 771 of this chapter, including the person with whom, or the
office with which, such an appeal shall be filed;
"(4) Of the time limit for appealing as provided in §752.204;
"(5) Of the restrictions on the use of appeal rights as provided
in § 752.205; and
"(6) Where liemay obtain information on how to pursue an
appeal."
12 5 CFR §§ 771.205, 771.208.
Section 771.205 provides:
"An employee is entitled to appeal under the agency appeals
system from the original decision. The agency shall accept and
process a properly filed appeal in accordance with its appeals system."
Section 771.208 provides:
"(a) Entitlement. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this
section, an employee is entitled to a hearing on his appeal before
an examiner. The employee is entitled to appear at the hearing
personally or through or accompanied by his representative. The

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

Opiniou of

REHNQUIST,

J.

sion,"3 and the employee is entitled to an evidentiary trialtype hearing at the appeal stage of the proceeding."
The
only trial-type hearing available within the OEO is, by
hearing may precede either the original decision or the- appellate
decision, at the agency's option. Only one -hearing shall be held
unless the agency determines that unusual circumstances require a
second hearing.
"(b) Denial of hearing. The agency may deny an employee a
hearing on his appeal only (1) when a hearing is impracticable by
reason of unusual location or other extraordinary circumstance, or
(2) when the employee failed to request a hearing offered before
the original decision.
"(c) Notice. The agency shall notify an employee in writing
before the .origiual decision or before the appellate decision of (1)
his right to a hearing, or (2) the reasons for the denial of a
hearing."
13 5 CFR § 752.203. Section 752.203 provides:
"An employee is entitled to appeal to the Commission from an
adverse action covered by this subpart. The appeal shall be in
writing and shall set forth the employee's reasons for contesting
the adverse action, with such offer of proof and pertinent documents
as he is able to submit."
Appeals to both the discharging agency and the Commission from
an original adverse action will not be processed concurrently, 5 CFR
§ 752.205 (a), and a direct appeal to the Commission from an
initial removal decision constitutes a waiver of appeal rights within
the employing agency. 5 CFR § 752.205 (b). However, if the
employee first appeals within the employing agency, he is entitled, if
necessary, to an appeal to the Commission. 5 CFR § 752.205 (c).
145 CFR §§ 771.208, 771.210-771.212, 772.305 (c).
Sections
771.210-771.212 govern the conduct of hearings by the discharging
agency. Those sections provide:
"§ 771.210 Conduct of hearing.
"(a) The hearing is not open to the public or the press. Except
as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, attendance at a
hearing is limited to persons determined by the examiner to have
a direct connection with the appeal.
"(b) The hearing is conducted so as to bring out pertinent
facts, including the production of pertinent records.
[Footnote 14 is continued on p. 146]

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of

REHNQUIST,

J.

416 U. S.

virtue of its regulations and practice, typically held after
actual removal; 15but if the employee is reinstated on
appeal, he receives full backpay, less any amounts earned
by him through other employment during that period."'
"(c) Rules of evidence are not applied strictly, but the examiner
shall exclude irrelevant or unduly repetitious testimony.
"(d) Decisions on the admissibility of evidence or testimony are
made by the examiner.
"(e) Testimony is under oath or affirmation.
"(f) The examiner shall give the parties opportunity to crossexamine w. tnesses who appear and testify.
"(g) Th- examiner may exclude any person from the hearing
for contumacious conduct or misbehavior that obstructs the hearing.
"(h) An agency may provide through a negotiated agreement
with a la'or organization holding exclusive recognition for the
attendance at hearings under this subpart of an observer from that
organization. When attendance is provided for, the agreement shall
further provide that when the employee who requested the hearing
objects to the attendance of an observer on grounds of privacy, the
examiner Ehall determine the validity of the objection and make
the decision on the question of attendance.
"§ 771211 Witnesses.
"(a) Both parties are entitled to produce witnesses.
"(b) The agency shall make its employees available as witnesses
before an examiner when requested by the examiner after consideration of a request by the employee or the agency.
"(c) If the agency determines that it is not administratively
practicable to comply with the request of the examiner, it shall
notify him in writing of the reasons for that determination. If,
in the examiner's judgment, compliance with his request is essential
to a full and fair heating, he may postpone the hearing until such
time as the agency complies with his request.
"(d) Employees of the agency are in a duty status during the
time they are made available as witnesses.
"(e) The agency shall assure witnesses freedom from restraint,
interference, coercion, discrimination, or reprisal in presenting their
testimony.
"§ 771.212 Record of hearing.
"(a) The hearing shall be recorded and transcribed verbatim. All
[Footnotes 15 and 16 are on p. 148]

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

Opinion of

REHNQUIST, J.

We must first decide whether these procedures established for the purpose of determining whether there is
"cause" under the Lloyd-La Follette Act for the dismissal
documents submitted to and accepted by the examiner at the hearing shall be made a part of the record of the hearing. If the
agency submits a document that is accepted, it shall furnish a copy
of the document to the employee. If the employee submits a
document that is accepted, he shall make the document available
to the agency representative for reproduction.
"(b) The employee is entitled to be furnished a copy of the
hearing record at or before the time he is furnished a copy of the
report of the examiner."
Section 772.305 (c) governs the conduct of hearings before
the Civil Service Commission. It provides:
"(c) Hearing procedures. (1) An appellant is entitled to appear
at the hearing on his appeal personally pr through or accompanied
by his representative. The agency is also entitled to participate
in the hearing. Both parties are entitled to produce witnesses.
The Commission is not authorized to subpoena witnesses.
"(2) An agency shall make its employees available a' witnesses at
the hearing. when (i) requested by the Commission after consideration of a request by the appellant or the agency and (ii) it is
administratively practicable to. comply with the request of the
Commission. If the agency determines that it is not administratively practicable to comply with the request of the Commission,
it shall submit to the Commission its written reasons for the
declination. Employees of the agency shall be in a duty status
during the time they are made available as witnesses. Employees
of the agency shall be free from restraint, interference, coercion,
discriminaton, or reprisal in presenting their testimony.
"(3) Hearingsare not open to the public or the press. Attendance at hearings is limited to persons determined by the Commission
to have a direct connection with the appeal.
"(4) A representative of the Commission shall conduct the heariilg and shall afford the parties opportunity to introduce evidence
(including testimony.and statements by the appellant, his representative, representatives of the agency, and witnesses), and to
cross-examine witnesses. Testimony is under oath or affirmation.
Rules of evidence are not. applied strictly, but the representative

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of

REHNQUIST,

J.

416 U. S.

of a federal employee comport with procedural due
process, and then decide whether that standard of
"cause" for federal employee dismissals was within the
constitutional power of Congress to adopt.
II
For almost the first century of our national existence,
federal employment was regarded as an item of patronage, which could be granted, withheld, or withdrawn for
whatever reasons might appeal to the responsible executive hiring officer. Following the Civil War, grass-roots
sentiment for "Civil Service reform" began to grow, and
it was apparently brought to a head by the assassination
of President James A. Garfield on July 2,1881. Garfield,
having then held office only four months, was accosted
in Washington's Union Station and shot by a, dissatisfied office seeker who believed that the President had
been instrumental in refusing his request for aprointment as United States Consul in Paris. During the
of the Commission shall exclude irrelevant or unduly repetitious
testimony.
"(5) The office of the Commission having initial jurisdiction of
the appeal shall determine how the hearing will be reported. When.
the hearing is reported verbatim, that office shall make the transcript
a part of the record of the proceedings'and shall furnish a copy
of the transcript to each party. When the hearing is not reported
verbatim, the representative of the Commission who conducts the

hearing shall make a suitable summary of the pertinent portions
of the testimony. When agreed to in writing by the parties, the
summary constitutes the report of the hearing and is made a part
of the record of the proceedings. Each party is entitled to be
furnished a copy of the report of the hearing. . If the representative
of the Commission and the parties fail to agree on the summary,
the parties are entitled to submit written exceptions to any parts
of the summary which are made a part of the record of the
proceedings for consideration in deciding the appeal."
15 OEO Staff Instruction No. 771-2 (1971).
16 5 U. S. C. § 5596.

ARNETT v. KENNEDY

134

Opinion of

REHNQUIST,

J.

summer, while President Garfield lingered prior to his
death in September, delegates from 13 Civil Service
reform associations met and formed the National Civil
Service Reform League. Responding to public demand
for reform led by this organization,
Congress in January
17
1883 enacted the Pendleton Act.
While the Pendleton Act is regarded as the keystone
in the present arch of Civil Service legislation, by
present-day standards it was quite limited in its application. It dealt almost exclusively with entry into the
federal service, and hardly at all with tenure, promotion,
removal, veterans' preference, pensions, and other subjects addressed by subsequent Civil Service legislation.
The Pendleton Act provided for the creation of a classified Civil Service, and required competitive examination
for entry into that service. Its only provision with
respect to separation was to prohibit removal for' the
failure of an employee in the classified service to contribute to a political fund or to render any political
service. 8
For 16 years following the effective date of the
Pendleton Act, this last-mentioned provision of that
Act appears to have been the only statutory or regulatory limitation on the right of the Government to discharge classified employees. In 1897, President Willian
McKinley promulgated Civil Service Rule II,19 which
provided that removal from the competitive classified
service should not be made except for just cause and for
17Act of Jan. 16, 1883, c. 27, 22 Stat. 403.
'sId., §2.
19Fifteenth Report of the Civil Service Commission 70 (18971898). Rule II, § 8, provided: "No removal shall be made from any
position subject to competitive examination except for just cause
and upon written charges filed with the head of the Department or
other appointing officer, and of which the accused shall have full
notice and an opportunity to make defense."

OCTOBER TERM, 1973

Opinion of

RHNQUIST,

J.

416 U. S.

reasons given in writing. While job tenure was thereby
accprded protection, there were no administrative appeal
rights for action ,taken in violation of this rule, and the
courts declined to judicially enforce it. Thus matters
stood with respect to governmental authority to remove
federal employees until the enactment of the LloydLa Follette Act.
The Lloyd-La Follette Act was enacted as one section
of the Post Office Department appropriation bill for the
fiscal year 1913. That Act guaranteed the right of federal employees to communicate with members of Congress, and to join employee organizations. It also
substantially enacted and enlarged upon Civil Service
Rule II in the following language:
"[N]o person in -the classified civil service of
the United States shall be removed therefrom except'
for such cause as will promote the efficiency of said
service and for reasons given in writing, and the
person whose removal is sought shall have notice
of the same and of any charges preferred against
him, and be furnished with a copy thereof, and also
be allowed a reasonable time for personally answering the same in writing; and affidavits in support
thereof; but no examination of witnesses nor any
trial or hearing shall be required except in the discretion of the officer making the removal; and
copies of charges, notice of hearing, answer, reasons
for removal, and of the order of removal shall be
made a part of the records of the proper department
or office, as shall also the reasons for reduction in
rank or gompensation; and copies of the same shall
be ftirnished to the person affected upon request,
and the Civil Service Commission also shall, upon
request, be furnished copies of the same ... ." 20
20

Act of Aug. 24, 1912, c. 389, § 6, 37 Stat. 555.

ARNETT v. KENNEDY

134

Opinion of

REHNQUIST,

J.

That Act, as now codified, 5 U. S. C. § 7501,
together with the administrative regulations issued by
the. Civil Service Commission and the OEO, provided
the statutory and administrative framework which the
Government contends controlled the proceedings against
appellee. The District Court, in its ruling on appellee's
procedural contentions, in effect held that the Fifth
Amendment to the United States Constitution prohibited Congress, in the Lloyd-La Follette Act, from granting protection against removal without cause and at the
same time-indeed, in the same sentence-specifying
that the determination-of cause should be without the
full panoply of rights which attend a trial-type adversary hearing. We do not believe that the Constitution
so limits Congress in the manner in which benefits may
be extended to federal employees.
Appellee recognizes that our recent decisions in Board
of Regents v. Roth, 408 U. S. 564 (1972), and Perry v.
Sindermann, 408 U. S. 593 (1972), are those most closely
in point with respect to the procedural rights constitutionally guaranteed public employees in connection with
their dismissal from employment. Appellee contends
that he had a property interest or an expectancy of employment which could not be divested without first
affording him a full adversary hearing.
In Board of Regents v: Roth, we said:
"Property interests, of course, are not created by
the Constitution. Rather, they are created and
their dimensions are defined by existing rules or
understandings that stem from an independent
source such as state law-rules or understandings
that secure certain benefits and that support claims
of entitlement to those benefits." 408 U. S., at 577.
Here appellee did have a statutory expectancy that he
not be removed other than for "su-ch cause as will pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1973

Opinion of

REHNQUIST,

J.

416 U. S.

mote the efficiency of [the] service." But the very section of the statute which granted him that right, a right
which had previously existed only by virtue of administrative regulation, expressly provided also for the procedure by which "cause" was to be determined, and expressly
omitted the procedural guarantees which appellee insists
are mandated by the Constitution. Only by bifurcating
the very sentence of the Act of Congress which conferred
upon appellee the right not to be removed save for cause
could it be said that he had an expectancy of that substantive right without the procedural limitations which
Congress attached to it. In the area of federal regulation of government employees, where in the absence of
statutory limitation the governmental employer has had
virtually uncontrolled latitude in decisions as to hiring
and firing, Cafeteria Workers v. McElroy, 367 U. S. 886,
896-897 (1961), we do not believe that a statutory enactment such as the Lloyd-La Follette Act may be parsed as
discretely as appellee urges. Congress was obviously intent on according a measure of statutory job security to
governmental employees which they had not previously
enjoyed, but was likewise intent on excluding more elaborate procedural requirements which it felt would make
the operation of the new scheme unnecessarily burdensome in practice. Where the focus of legislation was thus
strongly on the procedural mechanism for enforcing the
substantive right which was simultaneously conferred,
we decline to conclude that the substantive right may be
viewed wholly apart from the procedure provided for its
enforcement. The employee's statutorily defined right
is not a guarantee against removal without cause in
the abstract, but such a "uarantee as enforced by the
procedures which Congress has designated for the determination of cause.
The Court has previously viewed skeptically the action
of a litigant in challenging the constitutionality of por-

134

ARNEIT

v. KENNEDY

Opinion of

REHNQUIST,

J.

tions of a statute under which it has simultaneously

claimed benefits. In Fahey v. Mallonee, 332 U. S. 245
(1947), it was observed:
"In the name and right of the Association it is now
being asked that the Act under which it has its
existence be struck down in important particulars,
hardly severable from those provisions which grant
its right to exist ....

It would be intolerable that

the Congress should endow an association with the
right to conduct a public banking business on certain
limitations and that the Court at the behest of those
who took advantage from the privilege should
remove the limitations intended for public protection. It would be difficult to imagine a more appropriate situation in which to apply the doctrine that
one who utilizes an Act to gain advantages of corporate existence is estopped from questioning the
validity of its vital conditions." Id., at 255-256.
"It is an elementary rule of constitutional law that
one may not 'retain the benefits of an Act while
attacking. the constitutionality of one of its important conditions.' United States v. San Francisco,
310 U. S. 16, 29. As formulated by Mr. Justice
Brandeis, concurring in Ashwander v. Tennessee
Valley Authority, 297 U. S. 288, 348, 'The Court will
not pass upon the constitutionality of a statute at
the instance of one who has availed himself of its
benefits.'" id., at 255.
This doctrine has unquestionably been applied unevenly in the past, and observed as often as not in the
breach. We believe that at the very least it gives added
weight to our conclusion that where the grant of a substantive right is inextricably intertwined with the limitations on the procedures which are' to be employed in

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of

REHNQUIST, J.

416 U. S.

determining that right, a litigant in the position of
appellee must take the bitter with the sweet.
To conclude otherwise would require us to hold that
-although Congress chose to enact what was essentially
a legislative compromise, and with unmistakable clarity
granted governmental employees security against being
dismissed without "cause," but refused to accord them
a full adversary hearing for the determination of "cause,"
it was constitutionally disabled from making such a
choice. We would be holding that federal employees
had been granted, as a result of the enactment of the
Lloyd-La Follette Act, not merely that which Congress
had given them in the first part of a sentence, but that
which Congress had expressly withheld from them in the
latter part of the same sentence. Neither the language
of the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment nor
our cases construing it require any such hobbling restrictions on legislative authority in this area.
. Appellees urge that the judgment ofthe District Court
must be sustained on the authority of cases such as
Goldberg v. Kelly, ,397 U. S. 254 (1970), Fuentes v.
Shevin, 407 U. S. 67 (1972); Bell v. Burson, 402 U. S. 535
(1971), and Sniadach v. Family Finance Corp., 395 U. S.
337 (1969). Goldberg held that welfare recipients are
entitled under the Due Process Clause' of the Fifth and
Fourteenth Amendments to an, adversary hearing before
their benefits are terminated. Fuentes v. Shevin held
that a hearing was generally required before one could
have his property seized under a writ of replevin. In
Bell v. Burson the Court held that due process required a
procedure for determining whether there was a reasonable possibility of a judgment against a driver as a result of an accident before his license and vehicle registration could be suspended for failure to post security under
Georgia's uninsured motorist statute. And in Sniadach

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

Opinion of

REHNQUIST, J,

v. Family Finance Corp. a Wisconsin statute providing
for prejudgment garnishment without notice to the
debtor or prior hearing was struck down as violative of
the principles of due process. These cases deal with
areas of the law dissimilar to one another and dissimilar
to the area of governmental employer-employee relationships with which we deal here. - The types of "liberty"
and "property" protected by the Due Process Clause vary
widely, and what may be required under that Clause in
dealing with one set of interests which it protects may
not be required in dealing with another set of interests.
"The very nature of due process negates any concept
of inflexible procedures universally applicable to
every imaginable situation." Cafeteria Workers v.
McElroy, 367 U. S., at 895.
Here the property interest which appellee had in his
employment was itself conditioned by the procedural
limitations which had accompanied the grant of that
interest. The Government might, then, under our holdings dealing with Government employees in Roth, supra,
and Sindermann, supra, constitutionally deal with appel21
lee's claims as it proposed to do here.
21 Our Brother WHITE would hold that Verduin himself might
not make the initial decision as to removal on behalf of the agency,
because he was the victim of the alleged slander which was one of the

bases for appellee's removal. Because of our holding with respect
,t6 appellee's property-type expectations under Roth and Sindermann, we do not reach this question in its constitutional dimension.
But since our Brother WHITE suggests that he reaches that conclusion as a matter of statutory construction, albeit because of
constitutional emanations, we state our reasons for disagreeing with
his conclusion. We, of course, find no constitutional overtones lurk.ing in the statutory issue, because of our holding as to the nature
of appellee's property interest in his employment. The reference
in the Lloyd-La Follette Act itself to the discretion "of the officer
making the removal" suggests rather strongly that he is likewise the

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of

REHNQUIST,

J.

416 U. S.

Appellee also contends in this Court that because of
the nature of the charges on which his dismissal was
based, he was in effect accused of dishonesty, and that
therefore a hearing was required before he could be
deprived of this element of his "liberty" protected by the
Fifth Amendment against deprivation without due
process. In Board of Regents v. Roth, 408 U. S., at 573,

we said:
"The State, in declining to rehire the respondent,
did not make any charge against him that might
seriously damage his standing and associations in
his community. It did not base the nonrenewal of
officer who will have brought the charges, and there is no indication
that during the 60 years' practice under the A4t it has ever been
administratively construed to require the initial hearing on the discharge to be before any official other than the one making the charges.
And while our Brother WHITE'S statement of his conclusion suggests
that it may be limited to facts similar to those presented here,
post, at 199, we doubt that in practice it could be so confined. The
decision of an employee's supervisor to dismiss an employee "for
such cause as will promote the efficiency of the service" will all
but invariably involve a somewhat subjective judgment on the part
of the supervisor that the employee's performance is not "up to snuff."
Employer-employee disputes of this sort can scarcely avoid involving
clashes of personalities, and while a charge that an employee has
defamed a supervisor may generate a, maximum of personal involvement on the part of the latter, a statement of more typical charges
will necessarily engender some degree of personal involvement on
the part of the supervisor.
Additional difficulties in applying our Brother WHITE'S standard
would surely be found if the official bringing the charges were himself the head of a department or an agency, for in that event none
of his subordinates could be assumed to have a reasonable degree
of detached neutrality, and the initial hearing would presumably
have to 'be conducted by someone wholly outside of the department
or agency. We do not believe that Congress, clearly indicating as
it did in the Lloyd-LaFollette Act its preference for relatively simple
procedures, contemplated or required the complexities which would
be injected into the Act by our Brother WHITE.

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

Qpinion of REHNQUIST, J.

his contract on a charge, for example, that he had
been guilty of dishonesty, or immorality. .

In

such a case, due process would accord an opportunity
to refute the charge before university officials." 2
The liberty here implicated by appellants' action is not
the elemental freedom from external restraint such as
was involved in Morrissey v. Brewer, 408 U. S. 471 (1972),
but is instead a subspecies of the right of the individual
"to enjoy those privileges long recognized... as essential
to the orderly pursuit of happiness by free men." Meyer
v. Nebraska,262 U. S. 390,399 (1923). But that liberty is
not offended by dismissal from employment itself, but instead by dismissal based upon an unsupported charge
which could wrongfully injure the reputation of an employee. Since the purpose of the hearing in such a case is
to provide the person "an opportunity to clear his name,"
a hearing afforded by administrative appeal procedures
after the actual dismissal is a sufficient compliance with
the requirements of the Due Process Clause. Here
appellee chose- not to rely on his administrative appeal,
which, if his factual contentions are correct, might well
have vindicated his reputation and removed any wrongful stigma from his reputation.
Appellee urges that the delays in processing agency
and Civil Service Commission appeals, amounting to
more than three months in over 50% of agency appeals, 3
mean that the available administrative appeals do not
The Court's footnote there stated:
"The purpose of such notice and hearing is to provide the person
an opportunity to clear his name. Once a person has cleared his
name at a hearing, his employer, of course, may remain free .to
deny him future employment for other reasons." 408 U. S., at
573 n. 12.
2 3 See Merrill, Procedures for Adverse Actions Against Federal
Employees, 59 Va. L. Rev. 196, 206 (1973).
22

536-272

0 - 75 - 15

OCTOBER TERM, 1973

Opinion of

REHNQUIST, J.

-

416 U. S.

suffice to protect his liberty interest recognized in Roth.
During the pendency of his administrative appeals,
appellee asserts, a discharged employee suffers from both
the stigma and the consequent disadvantage in obtaining
a comparable job that result from- dismissal for cause
from Government employment. We assume that some
delay attends vindication of an employee's reputation
throughout the hearing procedures -provided on appeal,
and conclude that at least the delays cited here do not
entail any separate deprivation of a liberty interest
recognized in Roth.
III
Appellee also contends that the provisions of 5 U. S. C.
§ 7501 (a), authorizing removal or suspension without
pay "for such cause as will promote the efficiency of the
service," are vague and overbroad. The District Courit
accepted this contention:
"Because employees faced with the standard of 'such
cause as will promote the efficiency of the service'
can only guess as to what utterances may cost them
their jobs, 'there can be little question that they will
be aeterred from exercising their First Amendment
rights to the ftullest extent." 349 F. Supp., at 866.
A cervain anomaly attends appellee's substantive conStitutional attack on tb Lloyd-La Follette Act just as it
does his attack on its procedural provisions. Prior to
the enactment of this language in 1912, there was no
such statutory inhibition on the authority of the Government to distharge a federal employee, and an employee
could be discharged with or without caus. for conduct which was not protected under the First Amendment. Yet under the District Court's holding, a federal
employee after the enactxrmt of the Lloyd-La Follette
Act may not even be discharged for conduct which constitutes "cause" for discharge and which is not protected

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

Opinion

of REHNQUIST, J.

by the First Amendment, because the guarantee of job
security which Congress chose to accord employees is
"vague" and "overbroad."
We hold the standard of "cause" set forth in the
Lloyd-La Follette Act as a limitation on the Government's authority to discharge federal employees is constitutionally sufficient against the charges both of
overbreadth and of vagueness. In CSC v. Letter Carriers, 413 U. S. 548, 578-579 (1973), we said:
"[T] here are limitations in the English language with
respect to being both specific and manageably brief,
and it seems to us that although the prohibitions
may not satisfy those intent on finding fault at any
cost, they are set out in terms that the ordinary
person exercising ordinary common sense can sufficiently understand and comply with, without sacrifice to the public interest. '[T]he general class of
offense to which . . . [the provisions are] directed
is plainly within [their] terms . . . , [and they]

will not be struck down as vague, even though
marginal cases could be put where doubts might
arise.' United States v. Harriss, 347 U. S. 612, 618
(1954)."
Congress sought to lay down an admittedly general
standard, n.ot for the purpose of defining criminal conduct, but in order to give myriad different federal
employees performing widely disparate tasks a common
standard of job protection. We do not believe that Con-'
gress was confined to the choice of enacting a detailed
code of employee conduct, or else granting no job protection at all. As we said in Colten v. Kentucky, 407
U. S.104 (1972):
"The root of the vagueness doctrine is a rough idea
of fairness. It is not a principle designed to convert
into a constitutional dilemma the practical difficul-

OCTOBER TERM, 1973

Opinion of

REHNQUIST, J.

416 U. S.

ties in drawing criminal statutes both general enough
to take into account a variety of human conduct and
sufficiently specific to provide fair warnifig that certain kinds of conduct are prohibited." Id., at 110.
Here the language "such cause as will promote the efficiency of the service" was not written upon a clean slate
in 1912, and it does not appear on a clean slate now.
The Civil Service Commission has indicated that what
might be said to be longstanding principles of employeremployee relationships, like those developed in the private sector, should be followed in interpreting the language
used by Congress. 24 Moreover, the OEO has provided by
regulation that its Office of General Counsel is available to
counsel employees who seek advice on the interpretation
of the Act and its regulations." We found the similar
procedure offered by the Civil Service Commission important in rejecting the respondents' vagueness contentions
in CSC v. Letter Carriers,413 U. S., at 580.
The phrase "such cause as will promote the efficiency
of the service" as a standard of employee job protection
is without doubt intended to authorize dismissal for
speech as well as other conduct. Pickering v. Board of
Education, 391 U. S. 563, 568 (1968), makes it clear that
in certain situations the discharge of a Government employee may be based on his speech without offending
guarantees of the First Amendment:
'At the- same time it cannot be gainsaid that the
State has interests as an employer in regulating the
24 The Federal
Personnel Manual, Subchapter S3-1. a., states:
"Basically a 'cause' for disciplinary adverse action is a recognizable
offense against the employer-employee relationship. Causes for adverse action run the entire gamut of offenses against the employeremployee relationship, including inadequate performance of duties
and improper conduct on or off the job. .. " Supp. 752-1, Adverse
Action by Agencies, Feb. 1972.
. !5 See n. 7, 8upra.

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

Opinion of

REHNQUIST, J.

speech of its employees that differ significantly from
those it possesses in connection with regulation of
the speech of the citizenry in general. The problem in any case is to arrive at a balance between the
interests of the teacher, as a citizen, in commenting
upon matters of public concern and the interest of
the State, as an employer, in promoting the efficiency
of' the public services it performs through its
employees."
Because of the infinite variety of factual situations in
which public statements by Government employees might
reasonably justify dismissal for "cause." we conclude that
the Act describes, as explicitly as is required, the
employee conduct which is ground for removal. The
essential fairness of this broad and general removal
standard, and the impracticability of greater specificity,
were recognized by Judge Leventhal, writing. for a panel
of the United States Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia Circuit in Meehan v. Macy, 129 U. S. App.
D. C. 217, 230, 392 F. 2d 822, 835 (1968), modified, 138
U. S. App. D. C. 38, 425 F. 2d 469, aff'd en banc, 138
U. S. App. D. C. 41, 425 F. 2d 472 (1969):
"[I]t is not feasible or necessary for the Government to spell out in detail all that conduct which
will result in retaliation. The most conscientious
of codes that define prohibited conduct of employees
include 'catchall' clauses prohibiting employee 'misconduct,' 'immorality,' or 'conduct unbecoming.'
We think it is inherent in the employment relationship as a matter of common sense if not [of] common law that [a Government] employee .. .cannot
reasonably assert a right to keep his job while at
the same time he inveighs against his superiors in
public with intemperate and defamatory [cartoons]. . . . [Dismissal in such circumstances

OCTOBER TERM, 1973

Opinion of

REHNQUIST, J.

416 U. S.

neither] comes as an unfair surprise [nor] is so
unexpected as to chill

. .

.

freedom to engage in

appropriate speech."
Since Congress when it enacted the Lloyd-La Follette
Act did so With the intention- of conferring job protection rights on federal employees which they had not
previously had, it obviously did not intend to authorize
discharge under the Act's removal standard for speech
which is constitutionally protected. The Act proscribes
only that public speech which improperly damages and
impairs the reputation and efficiency of the employing
agency, and it thus imposes no greater controls on the
behavior of federal employees thanare necessary for
the protection of the Government as an employer. IndeEd the Act is not directed at speech as such, but
at employee behavior, including speech, which is detrimental to the efficiency of the employing agency. We
hold that the language "such cause as will promote the
efficiency of the service" in the Act excludes constitutionally protected speech, and that the statute is therefore not overbroad. Colten v. Kentucky, 407 U. S., at
111. We have observed previously that the Court has
a duty to construe a federal statute to avoid constitutional questions where such a construction is reasonably
pcssible. United States v. 12 200-ft. Reels of Film,
413 U. S. 123, 130 n. 7 (1973); United States v. Thirtysetven Photographs, 402 U. S. 363, 368-369 (1971).
We have no hesitation, as did the District Court, in
saying that on the facts alleged in the administrative
charges against appellee, the appropriate ribihal wo,,ld
irfringe no constitutional right of appellee in conciuding that there was "cause" for his discharge. Pickering
v. Board of Education, 391 U. S., at 569. Nor have
we any doubt that satisfactory proof of these allegations
could constitute "such cause as will promote the Lffi-

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

Opinion of

REHNQUIST,

J.

ciency of the service" within the terms of 5 U. S. C.
§ 7501 (a). Appellee's contention then boils down to
the assertion that although no constitutionally protected
conduct of his own was the basis for his discharge on the
Government's version of the facts, the statutory language in question must be declared inoperative, and a
set of more particularized regulations substituted for it,
because the generality of its language might result in
marginal situations in which other persons seeking to engage in constitutionally protected conduct would be
deterred from doing so. But we have held that Congress in establishing a standard of "cause" for dischargo
did not intend to include within that term any coi
stitutionally protected conduct. We think that our
statement in Colten v. Kentucky, is a complete answer
to appellee's contention:
"As we understand this case, appellant's own conduct was not immune under the First Amendment
and neither is his conviction vulnerable on the
ground that the statute threatens constitutionally
protected conduct of others." 407,U. S., at 111.
In sum, we hold that the Lloyd-La Follette Act, in
at once conferring upon nonprobationary federal employees the right not to be discharged except for "cause"
and prescribing the procedural means by which that
right was to be protected, did not create an expectancy
of job retention in those employees requiring procedural
protection under the Due 'Process Clause beyond that
afforded here by the statute and related agency regulations. We also conclude that the post-termination
hearing procedures provided by the Civil Service Commission and the OEO adequately protect those federal
employees' liberty interest, recognized in Roth,-supra, in
not being wrongfully stigmatized by untrue and -unsupported administrative charges. Finally, we hold that

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of POWELL, J.

416 U. S.

the Etandard of employment protection imposed by
Congress in the Lloyd-La Follette Act, is not impermissibly vague or overbroad in its regulation of the speech
of federal employees and therefore unconstitutional on
its face. Accordingly, we reverse the decision of the
District Court on both grounds on which it granted
summary judgment and remand for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
Ma. JUSTICE POWELL, with whom MR. JUSTICE BLACK-

MUN joins, concurring in part and concurring in the
result in part.
For the reasons stated by MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST, I
agree that the provisions of 5 U. S. C. § 7501 (a) are
neither unconstitutionally vague nor overbroad. I also
agree that appellee's discharge did not contravene the
Fifth Amendment guarantee of procedural due process.
Because I reach that conclusion on the basis of different
reasoning, I state my views separately.

I
The applicability of the constitutional guarantee of
procedural due process depends in the first instance on
the presence of a legitimate "property" or "liberty"
interest within the meaning of the Fifth or Fourteenth
Arp_)ndment. : Governmental deprivation of such an interest must be accompanied by minimum procedural safeguards, including some form of notice and a hearing.'
'As the Court stated in Boddie v. Connecticut, 401 U. S. 371,
378 (1971), "The formality and procedural requisites for [a due
process] hearing can vary, depending upon the'imp ance of the
interests involved and the nature of the subsequent proceedings."
In this case, we are concerned with an administrative hearing in
the context of appellee's discharge from public employment.

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

Opinion of Powvm, J.

The Court's decisions in Board of Regents v. Roth, 408
U. S. 564 (1972), and Perry v. Sindermann, 408 U. S. 593
(1972), provide the proper framework for analysis of
whether appellee's employment constituted a "property"
interest under the Fifth Amendment. In Roth, the Court
stated:
"To have a property interest in a benefit, a person
clearly must have more than an abstract need or
desire for it. He must have more than a unilateral
expectation of it. He must, instead, have a legitimate claim of entitlement to it. It is a purpose
of the ancient institution of property to protcct those
claims upon which people rely in their daily lives,
reliance that must not be arbitrarily unde'rmined.
It is a purpose of the constitutional right to a
hearing to provide an opportuiity for a person to,
vindicate those claims.
"Property interests, of course, are not createa by
the Constitution. Rather, they are created and their
dimensions are defined by existing rules or understandings that stem from an indepencient source such
as state law-rules or understandings that secure
certain benefits and that support claims of entitlement to those benefits." 408 U. S., at 577.
The Court recognized that the "wooden distinction"
between "rights" and "privileges" was not determinative
of the applicability of procedural due process- and that
a property interest may be created by statute as well as
by contract. Id., at 571. In particular, the Court stated
that a person may have a protected property interest
in public employment if contractual or statutory provisions guarantee continued employmefit absent "sufficient cause" for discharge. Id., at 576-578.
In Sindermann, the Court again emphasized that a
person may have a protected property interest in con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of POWELL, J.

416 U. S.

tinued public employment. There, a state college teacher
alleged that the college had established a de facto
system of tenure and that he had obtained tenure under
that system. The Court stated that proof of these allegations would establish the teacher's legitimate claim of
entitlement to continued employment absent "sufficient
cause" for discharge. In these circumstances, the teacher
would have a property interest safeguarded by due process,
and deprivation of that interest would have to be accompanied by some form of notice and a hearing.
Application of these precedents to the instant case
makes plain that appellee is entitled to invoke the
constitutional guarantee of procedural due process.
Appellee was a nonprobationary federal employee, and as
such he could be discharged only for "cause." 5 U. S. C.
§ 7501 (a). The federal statute guaranteeing appellee
continued employment absent "cause" for discharge conferred on him a legitimate claim of entitlement which
constituted a "property" interest under the Fifth Amendment. Thus termination of his employment requires
notice and a hearing.
The plurality opinion evidently reasons that the nature
of appellee's interest in continued federal employment is
necessarily defined and limited by the statutory procedures
for discharge and that the constitutional guarantee of procedural due process accords to appellee no procedural protections against arbitraryor erroneous discharge other than
those expressly provided in the statute. The plurality
would thus conclude that the statute governing federal
employment determines not only the nature of appellee's
property interest, but also the extent of the procedural
protections to which he may lay claim. It seems to me
that this approach is incompatible with the principles
laid down in Roth and Sindermann. Indeed, it would
lead directly to the conclusion, that whatever the nature

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

Opinion of POWELL, J,

of an individual's statutorily created property interest,
deprivation of that interest could be accomplished
without notice or a hearing at any time. Thi, view
misconceives the origin of the right to procedural
due process. That right is conferred, not by legislative
grace, but by constitutional guarantee. While the legislature may elect not to confer a property interest in
federal employment, 2 it may not constitutionally
authorize the deprivation of such an interest, once conferred, without appropriate procedural safeguards. As
our cases have consistently recognized, the adequacy of
statutory procedures for deprivation of a stat utorily
created property interest must be analyzed in c(,nstitutional terms. Goldberg v. Kelly, 397 U. S. 254 (1970); '
Bell v. Burson, 402 U. S. 535 (1971); Board of Regents
v. Roth, supra; Perry v. Sindermann, supra.
II
Having determined that the constitutional guarantee
of procedural due process applies to appellee's discharge
from public employment, the question arises whether an
evidentiary' hearing, including the right to present favorable witnesses and to confront and examine adverse witnesses, must be accorded before removal. The resolution of this issue depends on a balancing process in
which the Government's interest in expeditious removal
2N6 property interest would be conferred, for exam )le, where
the applicable statutory or contractua! terms, either exprt ssly or by
implication, did nct provide for continued employment absent
"cause." See Board of Regents v. Roth, 408 U. S. 564, 578 (1972).
3 In Goldberg, for example, the statutes and regulations defined
both eligibility for welfare benefits and the procedures for termination
of those benefits. The Court'held that such benefits constituted a
statutory entitlement for persons qualified to receive them and that
the constitutional guarantee of procedural due process applied to
termination of benefits. 397 U. S., at 261-263.

OCTOBER TERM, 1973

Opinion of

POWELL,

J.

416 U. S.

of an unsatisfactory employee is weighed against the

interest of the affected employee in continued public
employment. Goldberg v. Kelly, supra, at 263-266. As
the Court stated in Cafeteria & Restaurant Workers v.
-McElroy, 367 U. S. 886, 895 (1961), "consideration of
what procedures due process may require under any given
set of circumstances must begin with a determination of
the precise nature of the government function involved
as well as of the private interest that has been affected
by governmental action."
In the present case, the Government's interest, and
hence the public's interest, is the maintenance of employee efficiency and discipline. Such factors are essential
if the Government is to perform its responsibilities effectively and economically. To this end, the Government, as an employer, must have wide discretion and
control over the management of its personnel and internal affairs. This includes the prerogative to remove
employees whose conduct hinders efficient operation
and to do so with dispatch. Prolonged retention of a
disruptive or otherwise unsatisfactory employee can adversely affect discipline and morale in the work place,
foster disharmony, and ultimately impair the efficiency
of an office or agency. Moreover, a requirement of a
prior evidentiary hearing would impose additional administrative costs, create delay, and deter warranted discharges. Thus, the Government's interest iri being able
to act expeditiously to remove an unsatisfactory employee
is substantial."
4 My Brother MARSHALL rejects the Government's interest in
efficiency as insignificant, citing Goldberg v. Kelly, 397 U. S. 254,

266 (1970), and Fuentes v. Shevin, 407 U. S. 67, 90-91, n. 22 (1972).
He also notes that nine federal agencies presentiy accord prior evidentiary hearings. Post, at 223, 224.
Neither Goldberg nor Fuentes involved the Government's substantial interest in maintaining the efficiency and discipline of its

ARNEIT v. KENNEDY
134

Opinion of POWELL, J.

Appellee's countervailing interest is the continuation
of his public employment pending an evidentiary hearing.

Since appellee would be reinstated and awarded backpay
if he prevails on the merits of his claim, appellee's actual
injury would consist of a temporary interruption of his
income during the interim. To be sure, even a temporary interruption of income could constitute a serious
loss in many instances. But the possible deprivation is
considerably less severe than that involved in Goldberg,
for example, where termination of welfare benefits to

the recipient would have occurred in the face of "brutal
need." 397 U. S., at -261. Indeed, as the Court stated
in that case, "the crucial factor in this context--a factor
not present in the case of . . . the discharged government employee .. ..- is that termination of aid pending
resolution of a controversy over eligibility may deprive
an eligible recipient of the very means by which to live

while he waits."

Id., at 264 (emphasis added).

By con-

trast, a public employee may well have independent rest°urces to overcome any temporary hardship, and he
may be able to secure a job in the private sector. Alternatively, he will be eligible for welfare benefits.
own employees. Moreover, the fact that some federal agencies
may have decided to hold prior evidentiary hearings cannot mean
that such a procedure is constitutionally mandated. The Federal
Government's general practice to the contrary argues that efficiency
is in fact thought to be adversely affected by prior evidentiary
hearings.
Nor do I agree with my Brother WHIrus argument that suspension with pay would obviate any problem posed by prolonged
retention of a disruptive or unsatisfactory employee. Aside from
the additional financial burden which would be imposed on the
Government, this procedure would undoubtedly inhibit warranted
discharges and weaken significantly the deterrent effect of immediate removal. In addition, it would create a strong incentive for
the suspended employee to attempt to delay final resolution of the
issues surrounding his discharge.

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of POWELL, J.

416 U. S.

Appellee also argues that the absence of a prior evidentiary hearing increases the possibility of wrongful
removal and that delay in conducting a post-termination
evidentiary hearing further aggravates his loss. The
present statute and regulations, however, already respond
-to-these concerns. The affected employee is provided with
30 days' advance written notice of the f-easons for his proposed discharge, and the materials on which the notice
is based. He is accorded the right to respond to the
charges both orally and in writing, including the submission of affidavits.- -Up-on request, he is entitled to
an -opportunity to. appear personally before the official
having the auth6rity-to make or recommend the final
decision. Although an-evidentiary hearing is not held,
the employee may make any representations he believes
relevant to his case. After removal, the employee
receives a full evidentiary hearing, and is awarded
backpay if reinstated. See 5 CFR §§ 771.208 and
772.305; 5 U. S. C. § 5596. These procedures minimize
the risk of error, in the initial removal decision and provide for compensation for the affected employee should
that decision eventually prove wrongful."
5

My Brother WHrrE argues that affirmance is required because
the supervisory official who would have conducted the preremoval

hearing was the "object of slander that was the basis for the employee's proposed discharge." Post, at -199. He would conclude
that this violated the statutory requirement of an "impartial
decisionmaker." I find no such requirement anywhere in the statute
or the regulations. Nor do I believe that due process so mandates
at the preremoval stage. In my view, the relevant fact is that
an impartial decisionmaker is provided at the post-removal h.aring
where the employee's claims are finally resolved.
There are also significant practical considerations that argue
against such a requirement. In most cases, the employee's supervisor is the official best informed about the "cause" for termination.
If disqualification is required on the grouhd that the responsible
supervisor could not be wholly impartial, the removal procedure

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

, Opinion of WHr, J.

On balance, I would conclude that a prior evidentiary
hearing is not required and that the present statute and
regulations comport with due process by providing a.
reasonable accommodation of the competing interests.'
MR. JUSTICE
in part.

WHITE,

concurring in part and dissenting

The Lloyd-La Follette Act, 5 U. S. C. § 7501 (a), provides that "[a] n individual in the competitive service may
be removed or suspended without pay only for such cause
as will promote the efficiency of the service."' The
would become increasingly complex. In effect, a "mini-trial" would
be necessary to educate the impartial decisionmaker as to the basis
for termination.
6 Appellee also argues that the failure to provide a prior evidentiary
hearing deprived him of his "liberty ' interest in violation of the
Fifth Amendment. For the reasons stated above, I find, that the
present statute comports with due process even with respect to
appellee's liberty interest.
1 The full text of the Act's pertinent provisions provides:
"(a) An individual in the competitive service may be removed
or suspended without pay only for such cause as will promote the
efficiency of the service.
"(b) An individual in the competitive service whose removal or
suspension without pay is sought is entitled to reasons in writing
and to"(1) notice of the action sought and of any charges preferred
against him;
"(2) a copy of the charges;
"(3) a reasonable time for filing a written answer-to the charges,
with affidavits; and
"(4) a written decision on the answer at the earliest practicable
date.
"Examination of witnesses, trial, or hearing is not required but may
be provided in the discretion of the individual directing the removal
or suspension without pay. Copies of the charges, the notice of hearing, the answer, the reasons for and the order of removal or suspension without pay, and also the reasons for reduction in grade or pay,
shall be made a part of the records of the employing agency, and,

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of WHITE, J.

416 U. S.

regulations of the Civil Service Commission and the Office

of Economic Opportunity (OEO), at which appellee
was employed, give content to "cause" by specifying
grounds for removal which include "any action . . . which
might result in . . . [.a]ffecting adversely the confidence
of the public in the integrity of [OEO and] the Government" and any "criminal, infamous, dishonest, immoral,
or notoriously disgraceful conduct, or other conduct prejudicial to the Government."'!

Aside from specifying the standards for discharges,
-Congress has also established the procedural framework in which the discharge determinations are to be

made.

The employee is to receive 30 days' advance

written notice of the action sought and of any charges
preferred against him, a copy of the charges, and a
on request, shall be furnished to the individual affected and to the
Civil Service Commission.
"(c) This section applies to a preference eligible employee as defined by section 7511 of this title only if he so elects. This section
does not apply to the suspension or removal of an employee under
section 7532 of this title." 5 U. S. C. § 7501.
2The regulation of the Civil Service Commission as to "Proscribed
actions," 5 CFR § 735.201a, provides:
"An employee shall avoid any action, whether or not specifically
prohibited by this smpart, which might result in, or create the
appearance of:
' (a) Using public office for private gain;
"(b) Giving preferential treatment to any person;
"(c) Impeding Government efficiency or economy;
"(d) Losing complete independence or impartiality;
"(e) Making a Government decision outside official channels; or
"(f) Affecting adversely the confidence of the public in the integrity of the Government."
The regulations, 5 CFR § 735.209, also provided:
"An employee shall not engage in criminal, infamous, dishonest,
immoral, or notoriously disgraceful conduct, or other conduct prejudicial to the Government."

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
Opinion of WHrrE, J.

134

reasonable time for filing a written answer to the charges.
Before being terminated he may also make a personal
appearance before an agency official, and implementing
Civil Service Commission regulations provide that "[t] he
right to answer personally includes the right to answer
orally in person by being given a reasonable opportunity
to make any representations which the employee believes
might sway the final decision on his case, but does not
include the right to a trial or a formal hearing with examination of witnesses." The regulations further provide
that the "representative or representatives designated to
hear the answer shall be persons who have authority
either to make a final- decision on the proposed adverse
action or to recommend what final decision should be
made." The employee is entitled to notice of the agency's
decision in writing, and the notice must inform the

employee "[w]hich of the reasons in the notice of proposed adverse action have been found sustained and
which have been found not sustained."
The employee
3 The Civil Service Procedural Regulations, 5 CFR § 752.202,
provide in relevant part:
"(a) Notice of proposed adverse action. (1) Except as provided
in paragraph (c) of this section, an employee against whom adverse
action is sought is entitled to at least 30 full days' advance written
notice stating any and all reasons, specifically and in- detail, for the
proposed action.
"(2) Subject to the provisions of subparagraph (3) of this paragraph, the material on which the notice is based and which is relied
on to support the reasons in that notice, including statements of
witnesses, documents, and investigative reports or extracts therefrom, shall be assembled and made available to the employee for his
review. The notice shall inform the employee where he may review
that material.
"(3) Material which cannot be disclosed to the employee, or to
his designated physician under § 294.401 of this' chapter, may not
be used by an agency to support the reasons in the notice.
"(b) Employee's answer. Except as provided in paragraph (c)'
of this section, an employee is entitled to a reasonable time for
538-273

0 - 76 - 16

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of WHiir,

J.

416 U. S.

may appeal from an adverse decision and is entitled to
an evidentiary trial-type hearing at this stage.' This
later hearing affords the employee certain rights not available within OEO at the pretermination stage, particuanswering a notice of proposed adverse action and for furnishing
affidavits in support of his answer.' The time to be allowed depends
on the facts and circumstances of the case, and shall be sufficient
to afford the employee ample opportunity to review the material
relied on by the agency to support the reasons in the notice and to
prepare an answer and secure affidavits. The agency shall provide
the employee a reasonable amount of official time for these purposes
if he is otherwise in an active duty status. If the employee answers,
the agency shall consider his answer in reaching its decision. The
employee is entitled to answer personally, or in writing, or both
personally and in writing. The right to answer personally includes
the right to answer orally in person by being given a reasonable
opportunity to make any representations which the employee believes
might sway the final decision on his case, but does not include
the right to a trial or formal hearing with examination of witnesses.
When the employee requests an opportunity to answer personally,
the agency shall make a representative or representatives available
to hear his answer. The representative or representatives designated to hear the answer shall be persons who have authority either
to make a final decision on the proposed adverse action or to recommend what final decision should be made.
"(f) Notice of adverse decision. The employee is entitled to
notice of the agency's decision at the earliest practicable date. The
agency shall deliver the notice of decision to the employee at or
before the time the action will be made effective. The notice shall
be in writing, be dated, and inform the employee:
"(1) Which of the reasons in the notice of proposed adverse
action have been found sustained and which have been found not
sustained ... "
4The Veterans' Preference Act of 1944 authorizes Civil Service Commission appeals from adverse agency decisions. See 5 U. S. C. § 7701.
The Act itself applies only to veterans of military service, 5 U. S. C.
§§ 2108, 7511, but Executive Order No. 11491, printed in note following 5 U. S. C. § 7301, extends the Act's protections to all nonpreference eligible employees in the classified service.

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

Opinion of

WHITE,

J.

larly the taking of testimony under oath and the crossexamination of witnesses.
Appellee Kennedy was a nonprobationary federal employee in the competitive civil service and held the

position of field representative in the Chicago Regional
Office of OEO. As such, he was entitled to the protection of the statutes and regulations outlined above. On
February 18, 1972, Kennedy received a "Notification of
Proposed Adverse Action" from the Regional Director of
OEO, Wendell Verduin.
The notice charged, - among
other things, that Kennedy had made slanderous statements about Verduin and another coworker charging
them with bribing or attempting to bribe a potential
OEO grantee and had thereby caused disharmony in his

office by preventing its smooth functioning.

Verduin

then ruled on March 20, 1972, after Kennedy had filed

a written answer objecting to the lack of certain procedures furnished at this pretermination hearing, but
had declined to appear personally, that Kenredy be removed from his job with OEO, effective March 27, 1972.
1 Appellee's response stated:
"The charges and proceedings brought against Mr. Kennedy are
invalid and, in fact, unlawful for the following two r(asons among
others:
"First, Mr. Kennedy is entitled to a fair and imp rtial hearing
prior to any adverse action being taken against him. This means
a proceeding where there is a genuinely impariW- '.baring officer,
a proceeding where there is an opportunity to offer witnesses and
confront and cross examine those furnishing evidence against him,
a proceeding where he will have an opportunity to r3spond to all
evidence offered against him, a proceeding where a written record i
made of all evidence, testimony and argument, a pro(eeding where
the decision will be based exclusively on the recoid, a proceeding
where the decision will contain findings of fact and conclusions of law
with regard to all controverted issues, together with an analysis
indicating the manner in which the controversies were resolved.
"The present adverse action procedure fails in substantial ways
to provide all of these rudunentAry elements required for a due

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of

WHITE,

J.

416 U. S.

Kennedy then appealed directly to the Civil Service
Commission and also instituted the present action. The
first count of his complaint alleged that the discharge
procedure of the Lloyd-La Follette Act, and the attendant Civil Service Commission regulations, deprived him
of due process by failing to provide for a full hearing
prior to termination. The second count alleged that
he was discharged because of certain conversations,
in violation of his rights under the First Amendment.
The single judge who reviewed the complaint convened
a three-judge court to hear the first count, and dismissed the second, without prejudice to refiling after the
Civil Service Commission ruled on his appeal. It was
the court's view that it should not act until the agency
had the opportunity to review the merits of appellee's
First Amendment claim.
After the convening of the three-judge court, appellee
amended his complaint, then limited to the due process
claim, to include a challenge to the Lloyd-La Follette
Act on the grounds that it was vague and overbroad and
violated the First Amendment.
IThe three-judge District Court, convened pursuant to
28 U. S. C. §§ 2282 and 2284, granted summary judgment for appellee. 349 F. Supp. 863. It held that
the discharge procedures violated due process because
"[t]here was no provision . . . for the decision on removal or suspension to be made by an impartial agency
process hearing. It therefore fails to meet the requirements of due
process secured by the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States and is hence, invalid, null and void.
"Second, the charges brought against Mr. Kennedy are facially
insufficient and illegal. As the adverse action makes clear, Mr.
Kennedy is being punished for his conversations (inaccurately set
forth in the adverse action) with union members and the public.
Since the First Amendment protects such conversations these allegations are totally without merit." App. 62.

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

Opinion

of WHITE,

J.

official, or for Kennedy (by his own means) to present
witnesses; or for his right to confront adverse witnesses."
Id., at 865. The court also held that § 7501 was unconstitutional on vagueness and overbreadth grounds. The
Government was ordered to reinstate Kennedy to his
former position with backpay and to conduct any future
removal proceedings with a hearing consistent with its
opinion. Appellants were also enjoined from further enforcement of the Lloyd-La Follette Act, and implementing regulations, as "construed to regulate the speech of
competitive service employees." Id., at 866.

In my view, three issues must be addressed in this
case. First, does the Due Process Clause require that
there be a full trial-type hearing at some time when a
Federal Government employee in the competitive service
is terminated? Secondly, if such be the case, must this
hearing be held prior to the discharge of the employee,
and, if so, was the process afforded in this case adequate?
Third, and as an entirely separate matter, are the LloydLa Follette Act and its attendant regulations void for
vagueness or overbreadth? I join the Court as to the
third issue..
II
I differ basically with the plurality's view that "where
the grant of a substantive right is inextricably intertwined with the limitations on the procedures which are
to be employed in determining that right, a litigant in
the position of appellee must take the bitter with the
sweet," and that "the property interest which appellee had
in his employment was itself conditioned by the procedural limitations which had accompanied the grant of that
interest." Ante, at 153-154, 155. The rationale of this
position quickly leads to the qonclusion that even though

OCTOBER TERM, 1973

Opinion of

WHITE, J.

416 U. S.

the statute requires cause for discharge, the requisites
of due process could equally have been satisfied had the
law dispensed with any hearing at all, whether pretermination or post-termination.
The past cases of this Court uniformly indicate that
some kind of hearing is required at some time before a
person is finally deprived of his property interests.6 The
principles of due process "come to us from the law of
England ... and their requirement was there designed to
secure the subject against the arbitrary action of the crown
and place him under the protection of the law." Dent
v. West Virginia, 129 U. S. 114, 123 (1889). The "right
to be heard before being condemned to suffer grievous loss
of any kind, even though it may not involve the stigma
and hardships of a criminal conviction, is a principle
basic to our society." Anti-Fascist Committee v. McGrath, 341 U. S. 123, 168 (1951) (Frankfurter, J.,
concurring).
Tis basic principle has unwaveringly been applied
when private property has been taken by the State. A
fundarfiental requirement of due process is "the opportunity to be heard." Grannis v. Ordean, 234 U. S. 385, 394
(1914). "It is an opportunity which must be granted
at a meaningful time and in a meaningful manner."
Armstrong v. Manzo, 380 U. S. 545, 552 (1965). Where
the Court has rejected the need for a hearing prior to
the initial "taking," a principal rationale has been that
a' hearing would be provided before the taking became
final. See North American Cold Storage Co. v. Chicago,
211 U. S. 306 (1908) (seizure of food unfit for consumption); Central Trust Co. v. Garvan, . 254 U. S.
554 (1921) (seizure of property under Trading with the
6 My

views as to the requirements of due process where property

interests are at stake does not deal with the entirely separate matter
and requirements of due process when a person is deprived of liberty.

ARNETT v. KENNEDY

134

Opinion of

WHITE,

J.

Enemy Act); Corn Exchange Bank v. Coler, 280
U. S. 218 (1930) (seizure of assets of an absconding
husband); Phillips v. Commissioner, 283 U. S. 589 (1931)
(collection of a tax); Bowles v. Willingham, 321 U. S.
503 (1944) (setting of price regulations); Fahey v. Mallonee, 332 U. S. 245 (1947) (appointment of conservator
of assets of savings and loan association); Ewing v. Mytinger & Casselberry, 339 U. S. 594 (1950) (seizure of
misbranded articles in commerce). While these cases
indicate that the particular interests involved might not
have demanded a hearing immediately, they also reaffirm
the principle that property may not be taken without a
hearing at some time.
This principle has also been applied in situations where
the State has licensed certain* activities. Where the
grant or denial of a license has been involved, and the
"right" to engage in business has been legitimately limited by the interest of the State in protecting its citizens
from inexpert or unfit perf6rmance, the decision of the
State to grant or deny a license has been subject to a
hearing requirement. See, e. g., Dent v. West Virginia,
supra (licensing of physicians); Goldsmith v. United
States Board of Tax Appeals, 270 U. S. 117 (1926) (licensing of -accountant); Willner v. Committee on Character and Fitness, 373 U. S. 96 (1963) (admission to the
bar). The Court has put particular stress on the fact
that the absence of a hearing would allow the State to
be arbitrary in its grant or denial, and to make j udgments on grounds other than the fitness of a particular
person to pursue his chosen profession. In the context
of admission to the bar, the Court has stated: "Obviously
an applicant could not be excluded merely because he
was a Republican or a Negro or a member of a particular
church. Even in applying permissible standards, officers
of a. State cannot exclude an applicant when there is no

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of WHITE, J.

416 U. S.

basis for their finding that he fails to meet these standards, or when their action is invidiously discriminatory."
Schware v. Board of Bar Examiners, 353 U. S. 232, 239
.(1957). The hearing requirement has equally been applied when the license was to be removed, In re Ruffalo,
390 U. S. 544 (1968), or a licensee has been subject to
state regulation, Ohio Bell Telephone Co. v. Public
Utilities Comm'n of Ohio, 301 U. S. 292 (1937).
Similar principles prevail when the State affords its
process and mechanism of dispute settlement, its law
enforcement officers, and its courts, in aiding one person
to take property from another. Where there is a "taking" before a final determination of rights, as in some
cases when the State seizes, property, to protect one of
the parties pendente lite, the Court has acted on the
assumption that at s5me time a full hearing will be
available, as when there is an attachment of property
preliminary to resolution of the merits of a dispute,
Ownbey v. Morgan, 256 U. S. 94 (1921); Coffin Brothers
v. Bennett, 277 U. S. 29 (1928); McKay .v. McInnes,
279 U. S. 820 (1929). The opportunity to defend one's
property before it is finally taken is so basic that it hardly
bears repeating. Adequate notice of the court proceed-,
ing must be furnished, Mullane v. CentralHanover Bank
& Trust Co., 339 U. S. 306 (1950), and there must be
jurisdiction over the person, Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S.
714 (1878).•
Since there is a -need for some kind of hearing before
a person is finally deprived of his property, the argument
in the instant case, and that adopted in the plurality
opinion, is that there is something different about a final
taking from an individual of property rights which have
their origin in the public rather than the private sector
of the economy, and, as applied here, that there is no
need foi any hearing at any time when the Government

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

Opinion of

WHITE,

J.

discharges a person from his job, even though good cause
for the discharge is required.
In cases involving employment by the Government, the
earliest cases of thisCourt have distinguished between two
situations, where the entitlement to the job is conditioned
"at the pleasure" of the employer and where the job is to
be held subject to certain requirements being met by the
employee, as when discharge must be for "cause." The
Court has stated: "The inquiry is therefore whether there
were any causes of removal prescribed by law ....
If
there were, then the rule would apply that where causes
of removal are specified by constitution or statute, as
also where the term of office is for a fixed period, notice
and hearing are essential. If there were not, the appointing power could remove at pleasure or for such
cause as it deemed sufficient." Reagan v. United States,
182 U. S. 419, 425 (1901); Shurtlef] v. United States,
189 U. S. 311, 314 (1903). The Court has thus made
clear that Congress may limit the total discretion of the
Executive in firing an employee, by providing that terminations be for' cause, and only for cause, and, if it
does so, notice and a hearing are "essential."
Where Executive discretion is not limited, there is no
need for a hearing. In the latter event, where the statute has provided that employment was conditioned on
" 'maintain[ing] the respect due to courts of justice and
judicial officers,'" Ex parte Secombe, 19 How. 9, 14
(1857) (attorney and counsellor of court), or was subject to no conditions at all, Ex parte Hennen, 13 Pet.
225 (1839) (clerk of the court), no hearing is required.
See also Crenshaw v. United States, 134 U. S.99 (1890)
(Navy officer could be removed at will); Parsons v.
United States, 167 U. S. 324 (1897) (district attorney
could be terminated by the President at his pleasure);
Keim v. United States, 177 U. S. 290 (1900) (post office

OCTOBER TERM, 1973

Opinion of WHImT, J.

416 U. S.

clerks removable at pleasure). To like effect is Cafeteria
Workers v. McElroy, 367 U. S. 886 (1961), where the
Court held that no hearing need be provided to a cook
employed by a private concessionaire of the Navy before the Government revoked her security clearance.
The revocation of security clearances was within the
"unfettered control" of the Navy in order "to manage
the internal operation of an important federal military
establishment." Id., at 896. The Court there assumed
that "Rachel Brawner could not constitutionally have
been excluded from the Gun Factory if the announced
grounds for her exclusion had been patently arbitrary
or discriminatory . . . ." Id., at 898.
Where the Congress has confined- Executive discretion, notice and hearing have been required.
In
Anti-Fascist Committee v. McGrath, 341 U. S. 123
(1951), an organization was put on the Attorney General's list, as disloyal to the United States, without
a hearing before the Attorney General. The Executive
Order, as defined by implementing regulations, required
the Executive to make an "appropriate determination"
of disloyalty. It was apparent that members of organizations employed by the Government who belonged to
an organization on the Attorney General's list would be
in danger of losing their jobs. The Court held, assuming
the facts as alleged by the complaints were true, that it
would be arbitrary, and not consistent with an "appropriate determination," to deny a hearing on the matter
to the affected organizations. As Mr. Justice Frankfurter
observed in his concurring opinion, "[t]he heart of the
matter is that democracy implies respect for the elementary rights of men, however suspect or unworthy; a
democratic government must therefore practice fairness;
and fairness can rarely be obtained by secret, one-sided
determination of facts decisive of rights." Id., at 170.

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

Opinion

of WHITE, J.

To some extent, McGrath, and like cases, see Greene v.
McElroy, 360 U. S. 474 (1959), depended on statutory
construction-the intent of Congress to require that procedural fairness be observed in making decisions on
security clearances or status, which affected employmentbut it is obvious that the constitutional requirements of
fairness were a guiding hand to the Court's statutory interpretation. "Where administrative action has
raised serious constitutional problems, the Court has
assumed that Congress or the President intended to
afford those affected by the action the traditional safeguards of due process," and it has been "the Court's concern that traditional forms of fair procedure not be
restricted by implication or without the most explicit
action by the Nation's lawmakers .... " Id., at 507-508.
The concern of the Court that fundamental fairness
be observed when the State deals with its employees has
not been limited to action which is discriminatory and
infringes on constitutionally protected rights, as in Wieman v. Updegraf], 344 U. S. 183 (1952);- Slochower v.
Board of Education,.350 U. S. 551 (1956); Speiser v.
Randall, 357 U. S. 513 (1958); Sherbert v. V-/erner, 3T4
U. S..398 (1963). See also Connell v. Higginbotham, 403
U. S. 207 (1971).
It has been observed that "constitutional protection does extend to the public servant
whose exclusion pursuant to a statute is patently arbitrary or discriminatory." Wieman v. Updegraff, supra,
at 192; Slochower v. Board of Education, supra, at 556.
(Emphasis added.)
In Slochower, supra, New York
law provided that a tenured employee taking the Fifth
Amendment before a legislative committee inquiring into
his official conduct could be fired. Quite apart from the
Fifth Amendment "penalty" assessed by the State, the
Court was concerned with the arbitrariness of drawing a
conclusion, without a hearing, that any employee who

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of WHITE, J.

416 U. S.

took the Fifth Amendment was guilty or unfit for employment. The Court stated:
"This is not to say that Slochower has a constitutional right to be an associate professor of German
at Brooklyn College. The State has broad powers
in the selection and discharge of its employees, and
it may be that proper inquiry would show Slochower's continued employment to be inconsistent
with a real interest of the State. But there has
been no such inquiry here." Id., at 559.
The Court's decisions in Board of Regents v. Roth,
408 U. S. 564 (1972), and Perry v. Sindermann, 408 U. S.
593 (1972), reiterate the notioihatthe Executive Branch
cannot. be arbitrary in depriving a person of his job, when
the Legislative Branch has provided that a person cannot
be fired except for cause, and, if anything, extend the
principles beyond the facts of this case.
In Sindermann, a teacher who had held his position
for a number of years but was not tenured under contract, alleged that he had de facto tenure under contract
law due to "the existence of rules or understandings"
with the college which employed him, id., at 602. The
Court held that if the professor could prove the existence
of a property interest it would "obligate college officials
to grant a hearing at his request, where he could be informed of the grounds for his nonretention and challenge
their sufficiency." Id., at 603. In Roth, an assistant
professor was hired for a fixed term of one academic year,
and had no tenure. The Court held that the teacher had
ro property interest in the job, since the terms of employment allowed that his contract not be renewed. The
critical consideration was that the terms "did not provide
for contract renewal absent 'sufficient cause.' " 408
U. S., at 578. The rights to continued employment were
determined by state law. The Court took great pains,

ARNETT v. KENNEDY

134

Opinion of WHITE, J.

however, to point out that a tenured appointment, providing for entitlement to a job, absent cause, would be
a far different case.
These cases only serve to emphasize that where there
is a legitimate entitlement to a job, as when a person is
given employment subject to his meeting certain specific
conditions, due process requires, in order to insure against
arbitrariness by the State in the administration of its
law, that a person be given notice and a hearing before
he is finally discharged. As the Court stated in Dismuke
v. United States, 297 U. S. 167, 172 (1936):
"If [the administrative officer] is authorized to
determine questions of fact his decision must be
accepted unless he exceeds his authority.., by failing to follow a procedure which satisfies elementary
standards of fairness and reasonableness essential. to
the due conduct of the proceeding which Congress
has authorized."
To be sure, to determine the existence of the property
interest, as for example, whether a teacher is tenured
or not, one looks to the controlling law, in this case
federal statutory law, the Lloyd-La Follette Act, which
provides that a person can only be fired for cause. The
fact that the origins of the property right are with the
State makes no difference for the nature of the procedures required. While the State may define what is
and what is not property, once having defined those
rights the Constitution defines due process, and as I
understand it six members of the Court are in agreement
on this fundamental proposition.
I. conclude, therefore, that as a matter of due process,
a hearing must be held at some time before a competitive
civil service employee may be finally terminated for
misconduct. Here, the Constitution and the LloydLa Follette Act converge, because a full trial-type hearing

OCTOBER TERM, 1973

Opinion of

WHITE,

J.

416 U. S.

is provided by statute before termination from the service becomes final, by way of appeal either through OEO,
the Civil Service Commission, or both.7
A different case might be put, of course, if the termination were f~r reasons of pure inefficiency, assuming such
a general reason could be given, in which case it would
be at least arguable that a hearing would serve no useful
purpose and that judgments of this kind are best left
to the discretion of administrative officials. This is not
such a case, however, since Kennedy was terminated on
specific charges of misconduct.

III
The second question which must be addressed is
whether a hearing of some sort must be held before any
"taking" of the employee's property interest in his job
occurs, even if a full hearing is available before that
taking becomes final. I must resolve this question because in my view a full hearing must be afforded at
some juncture and the claim is that it must occur prior
to termination. If the right to any hearing itself is a
pure matter of property definition, as the plurality opinion suggests, then that question need not be faced, for any
kind of hearing, or no hearing at all, would suffice. As
I have suggested, the State may not dispense with the
minimum procedures defined by due process, but
different considerations come into play when deciding
whether a pretermination hearing is required and, if it
is, -what kind of hearing must be had.
Bailey v. Richardson, 86 U. S! App. D. C. 248, 182 F. 2d 46

(1950), aff'd by an equally divided court, 341 U. S. 918 (1951), is not

controlling. "The basis of this holding has been thoroughly undermined in the ensuing ye:irs" with the rejection of the "right-privilege" distinction.
Board of Regents v. Roth, 408 U. S. 564, 571
n. 9 (1972).

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

Opinion of WHiT, J.

In passing upon claims to a hearing before preliminary
but nonfinal deprivations, the usual rule of this Court has
been that a full hearing at some time suffices. "We have
repeatedly held that no hearing at the preliminary stage
is required by due process so long as the requisite hearing
is held before the final administrative order becomes
effective." "It is sufficient, where only property rights
are concerned, that there is at some stage an opportunity
for a hearing and a judicial determination." Ewing v.
Mytinger & Casselberry, 339 U. S., at 598, 599. See also
Phillips v. Commissioner, 283 U. S. 589, 596-597 (1931);
Scottish Union & Natidnal Insurance Co. v. Bowland,
196 U. S.611, 631-632 (1905); Springer v. United States,
102 U. S.586, 593-594 (1881),. This has seemingly been
the rule whether the State was taking property from-the
person, as in the above-cited cases, or whether one person
was taking it from another through the process of state
courts. See Ownbey v. Morgan, 256 U. S. 94 (1921);
Coffin Brothers v. Bennett, 277 U. S. 29 (1928) ; McKay
v. Mclnnes, 279 U. S.820 (1929).
In recent years, however, in a limited number of cases,
the Court has held that a hearing must be furnished at
the first stage of taking, even where a later hearing was
provided. This has been true in the revocation of a
state-granted license, Bell v. Burson, 402 U. S. 535
(1971), and in suits between private parties, where summary replevin procedures, Fuentes v. Shevin, 407 U. S.
67 (1972), or garnishment procedures, Sniadach v. Family Finance Corp., 395 U. S. 337 (1969), were attacked,
and when the State has sought to- terminate welfare
benefits, Goldberg v. Kelly, 397 U. S. 254 (1970).11
8 Wisconsin v. Constantineau,400 U. S. 433 (1971), is not properly
part of this quartet of cases, since no hearing was apparently ever

provided to challenge the posting of one's name as an excessive

drinker.

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of WHIE,, J.

416 U. S.

These conflicting lines of cases demonstrate, as the
Court stated in Cafeteria & Restaurant Workers
v. McElroy, 367 U. S., at 895, that "consideration
of what procedures due process may require under any
given set of circumstances must begin with a determination of the precise nature of the government function
involved as well as of the private interest that has been
affected by governmental action." See also Hannah v.
Larche, 363 U. S. 420, 440, 442 (1960); Goldberg v.
Kelly, supra, at 263. In assessing whether a prior
hearing is required, the Court has looked to how
the legitimate interests asserted by the party asserting
the need for a hearing, and the party opposing it, would
be furthered or hindered.
In many cases, where the claim to a pretermination
hearing has been rejected, it appears that the legitimate
interest of the party opposing the hearing might be defeated outright if such hearing were to be held.' For
example, when the Government or a private party lays
claim to property there is often the danger that the
person in possession of the property may alienate or
waste it, and the Government or private party may be
without recourse. Thus, the Court has held that there
is no need for a prior hearing where the Government
has taken preliminary custody of alleged enemy property
before actual title to the property is determined, Central
Trust Co. v. Garvan, 254 U. S. 554 (1921); Stoehr v.
Wallace, 255 U. S. 239 (1921), or where a private creditor
has sought to attach property of a debtor. See Ownbey
v. Morgan, supra; Coffin Brothers v. Bennett, supra;
McKay v. McInnes, supra. Of course, such summary
action must be authorized in such a manner as to mini_
mize the possibilities of a mistaken deprivation, by a
9 See generally Freedman, Summary Action by Administrative
Agencies, 40 U. Chi. L. Rev. 1 (1972).

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

Opinion of WHIT,

J.

public official in the case of administrative action, or a
judge where the processes of the z4urt are used. Fuentes
v. Shevin, supra.
The donger that the purpose of the action may be
defeated, or made exceedingly difficult, by requiring a
prior hearing, is illustrated by North American Cold
Storage Co. v. Chicago, 211 U. S. 306 (1908), where the
Court sustained the constitutionality of an Illinois statute
permitting health inspectors to enter cold-storage houses
and "forthwith seize, condemn and destroy" unfit food.
The defendants in the action claimed that while it may
be necessary to seize the food pending a hearing, surely
destruction of that food could not be justified. Nonetheless, the Court observed:
"If a hearing were to be always necessary, even
under the circumstances of this case, the question at
once arises as to what is to be done with the food
in the meantime. Is it to remain with the cold
storage company, and if so under what security that
it will not be removed? To be sure that it will not
be removed during the time necessary for the hearing, which might frequently be indefinitely prolonged, some guard would probably have to be placed
over the subject-matter of the investigation, which
would involve expense, and might not even then
prove effectual." Id., at 320.
Similar inabilities of the party claiming a right to a prior
hearing, to make the moving party in the suit. whole,
have appeared where incompetence and malfeasance in
the administration of a bank could precipitate a financial
collapse in the community, which would go uncompensated, see Fahey v. Mallonee, 332 U. Si, at 250, or
where, in the absence of a jeopardy assessment by the
Tax Commissioner, a taxpayer might waste or conceal
his assets, see Phillips v. Commissioner, supra. In all
536-272 0 - 75 - 17

OCTOBER TERM, .1973
Opinion of WHrrn, J.

416 U. S.

such cases it is also significant that the party advancing
the claim to a summary procedure stands ready to make
whole the party who has been deprived of his property,
if theAnitial taking proves to be wrongful, either by the
credit of the public fisc or by posting a bond.
Of course, this principle cannot be applied with success
to explain the Court's decisions in cases holding that a
pietermination hearing is required; it is not true that the
party entitled to the hearing stands ready to compensate
the adversary for what may be the wrongful possession of
the property in question during the pendency of the
litigation. This is vividly illustrated in Goldberg v.
Kelly where the Court observed that "the benefits paid to
ineligible recipients pending decision at the hearing probably cannot be recouped, since these recipients are likely
to be judgment proof." 397 U. S., at 266. However,
other considerations have proved decisive, such as: the
risk that the initial deprivation may be wrongful; the
impact on the claimant to a hearing of not having the
property while he waits for a full hearing; the interest
of the party opposing the prior hearing and aserting the
need for immediate possession in not alerting the current possessor to the lawsuit; and the risk of leaving'the
property in possession of the current possessor between
the time notice is supplied and the time of the preliminary
hearing.
In goldberg and Sniadach, the Court observed that
there was a substantial chance that the claimant to the
property, be it the State or garnishor, would lose in the
ultimate resolution of the controversy. , In Goldberg, the
Court took n9te. of the "welfare bureaucracy's difficulties
in reaching correct decisions on eligibility." 397 U. S.,
at 264 n. 12. Since the time of the decision in Goldberg,
at least one study has shown that decisions to terminate
benefits have been reversed with a fair degree of fre-

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

Opinion of WHIm, J.

quency.10 Concern was also expressed with the use of
garnishment in a vast number of cases where the debt
was fraudulent. Sniadach, 395 U., S., at 341. In
Fuentes, although no such empirical evidence was available, the risk of wrongful deprivations was unnecessarily
increased by allowing a clerk, rather than a judge, to
pass on the creditor's claim for summary replevin. In
Bell, the Court held unconstitutional a state statute requiring summary suspension of a driver's license of any
uninsured motorist who was unable after an accident
to post security for the amount of the damages claimed
against him. The only hearing held by the State on
the issue of suspension excluded any consideration of
fault, the standard on which the validity would ultimately turn. Without some kind of probable-cause determination of fault, it was obvious that many suspensions
would prove to be unwarranted.
As for the impact on the current property possessor
of not having an early pretermination hearing, the Court
has held that without possession of the property a person may be unable to exist at 6ven a minimum standard
of decency. In Goldberg, where the person would have
lost the last source of support available, aside from charity, the Court observed that "termination of aid pending
resolution of a controversy over eligibility may deprive
an eligible recipient of the very means by which to live
while he waits. Since he lacks independent resources,
his situation becomes immediately desperate." 397 U. S.,
at 264. In fact, the magnitude of deprivation may be
such as to prevent the welfare recipient from pursuing
his right to a later full hearing. Dl'id. In Sniadach, the
seizure of an individual's wages could "as a practical
10See Handler, Justice for the Welfae Recipient: Fair Hearings

in AFDC-The Wisconsin Experience, 43 Soc. Serv. Rev. 12, 22
(1969).

OCTOBER TERM, 1973

Opinion of

Wm

, J.

416 U. S.

matter drive a wage-earning family to the wall." 395
U. S., at 341-342 (footnote omitted). In Bell, the petitioner was a clergyman whose ministry required him to
travel by car to cover three rural Georgia communities,
and he was "severely handicapped in the performance of
his ministerial duties by a suspension of his licenses."
402 U. S., at '537. The impact of deprivation increases,
of course, the'longer the time period between the initial
deprivation and the opportunity to have a full hearing.
In Goldberg, the Court noted that although pertinent
New York regulations provided that a "fair hearing" be
held within 10 working days of the request, with decision
within 12 working days thereafter, "[i] t was conceded in
oral argument that these time limits are not in fact observed." 397 U. S., at 260 n. 5. In Sniadach and
Fuentes, there was no indication of the speed with which
a court ruling on garnishment and possession would be
rendered, and of course the ultimate issues on the merits
in such cases must wait for a still later determination.
In Bell, the issue of liability might not be determined
until full trial proceedings in court.
The last factor to be weighed in the balance is the
danger to the party claiming possession occasioned by
alerting the current 'possessor to the lawsuit, and then
leaving the property in his hands pending the holding
of -the preliminary hearing. In Goldberg and Sniadach,
the property. right seized was a flow of income, in one
case from the government, and in the other from the
private employer,"pending the preliminary hearing. The
goveninent ran no special risk by supplying notice in
advance of the cutoff, since the government was in possession of the flow of income until it was turned over
piecemeal to the welfare recipient. Further, though the
government could assert in the welfare case that it would
incur 'an uncompensated loss, that risk would only be

ARNETT v. KENNEDY,
134

Opinion of

WHITE, J._

incurred from the time the last check is delivered until
the pretermination hearing is hel4 and the administrative agency certainly has the power to offer a speedy
hearing before that time is reached. See Goldberg v.
Kelly, supra, at 266. In Sniadach, while it was
true that the inability to garnish wages could leave
the creditor uncompensated, if the debtor proved judgment proof, this was a risk the creditor assumed at the
outset by being unsecured. Further, notice to the debtor
of the pendency of the lawsuit is not likely to increase
the risk that the debtor will prove to be judgment proof,
since the debtor is not likely to leave his job due to the
pendency of the suit. Likewise, the risk to the creditor
of the debtor's drawing on his wages between the time of
notice and the availability of a court hearing on the
claim in no way interferes with the creditor's claim to
the future flow of earnings after the hearing has been
held. The garnishor, therefore, asserts not only the right
to take the debtor's wages, but to take them before the
controversy has been resolved. In Bell, the risk to the
State of supplying notice to the licensee and of leaving
the person in possession of the license until the hearing,
was not at issue, since the state statute provided for
notice and a presuspension hearing. There were few
costs attached to expanding the scope of that hearing to
include a probable-cause determination of fault.
With the above principles in hand, is the tenured
civil-service employee entitled to a pretermination
hearing, such as that provided by the Lloyd-La Follette
Act?
There would be a problem of uncompensated loss to the
Government, if the employee were to draw wages without
working for the period between notice of a discharge and
a preliminary hearing. Yet, if the charge against the
employee did not indicate that the employee should be

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of

WHITE,

J.

416 U. S.

excluded from the workplace pending this hearing, some
work could be exacted by the Government in exchange
for its payment of salary. One must also consider another type of cost to the Government. if preseparation
hearings were provided-the necessity of keeping a person on the scene who might injure the public-interest
through poor service or might create an uproar at the
workplace. However, suspension with pay would obviate this problem.
On the employee's side of the ledger, there is the
danger of mistaken termination. Discharge decisions,
made ex parte, may be reversed after full hearing. One
study reveals that in fiscal year 1970, in agencies where
full pretermination hearings were routine, employees
contesting removal were successful almost 20% of the
time. Merrill, Procedures for Adverse Actions Against
Federal Employees, 59 Va. L. Rev. 196, 204 n. 35 (1973).
The impact on the employee of being without a job
pending a full hearing is likely to be considerable because
"[mlore than 75 percent of actions contested within
employing agencies require longer to decide than the 60
days prescribed by [Civil Service] Crmmission regulations. Over 50 percent take more than three months,
and five percent are in process for longer than a year."
Id., at 206. Of course, the discharged civil servant,
deprived of his source of income, can seek employment
in the_ private sector and so cut or minimize his losses,
opportunities largely unavailable to the welfare recipient
in Goldberg or the debtor in Sniadach. Nonetheless,
the employee may not be able to get a satisfactory position in the private sector, particularly a tenured one,
and his marketability may be under a cloud due to the
circumstances of his dismissal. See Lefkowitz v. Turley,
414 U. S. 70, 83-84 (1973).. Cf. Board of Regents v.
Roth, 408 U. S., at 574 n. 13. It should be stressed that

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

Opinion of WHiEr,

J.

if such employment is unavailable the Government may
truly be pursuing a partially counter-productive policy by
forcing the employee onto the welfare rolls.
Finally, by providing a pretermination hearing, the
Government runs no risk through providing notice, since
the employee cannot run away with his job, and can
surely minimize its risk of uncompensated loss by eliminating the provision for personal appearances and setting
early dates for filing written objections. Altogether
different considerations as to notice might be applicable,
if the employee would be likely to do damage to the
Government if provided with such notice. See 5 CFR
§ 752.202 (c)(2) (1972), providing that an agency may
dispense with the 30-day notice requirement "[w]hen
there is reasonable cause to believe an employee is guilty
of a crime for which a sentence of imprisonment can be
imposed."
Perhaps partly on the basis of some of these constitutional considerations, Congress has. provided for pretermination hearings. Certainly the debate on the
Lloyd-La Follette Act indicates that constitutional considerations were present in the minds of Congressmen
speaking in favor of the legislation." In any event, I
conclude that the statute and regulations, to the extent
they require 30 days' advance notice and a right to make
"Congressman Calder stated that the Act would "give assurance
and confidence to the employees that they will at least get a square
deal and will not permit of supervisory or executive officers filing
charges of one kind against an employee and having him removed
from the service or reduced in salary on evidence submitted on
matters entirely foreign to the original charges that the employee
has answered in writing." 48 Cong. Rec. 4654 (1912).
Congressman Konop stated:
"Any man in public service should have- a right as a citizen to
know why he is discharged from public duty, and as a citizen should
certainly have a chance to be heard." Id., at 5207.

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of

WHITE, J.

416 U. S.

a written presentation, satisfy minimum constitutional
requirements.

Iv
Appellee in this case not only asserts that he is entitled
to a hearing at some time before his property interest is
finally terminated, and to a pretermination hearing
of some kind before his wages are provisionally cut off,
which are currently provided to him, but also argues
that he must be furnished certain procedures at this
pre.iminary hearing not provided by Congress: an
impartial hearing examiner, an opportunity to present
witnesses, and the right to engage in cross-examination.
In other words, his claim is not only to a pretermination
hearing, but one in which full trial-type procedures are
available.
A
The facts in this case show that the Regional Director, Verduin, who charged appellee Kennedy with making
slanderous statements about him as to an alleged bribe
offer, also ruled in the preliminary hearing that Kennedy should be terminated.
The "Notification of Proposed Adverse Action," signed
by Verduin, charged that appellee had "made statements knowingly against officials of this agency which
could harm or destroy their authority, official standing
or reputation" and that appellee had engaged "in a
course of conduct intended to produce public notoriety
and conclusions on the part of the public, without any
p::oof whatsover and in reckless disregard of the actual
fLcts known to you [appellee], or reasonably discoverable
by you [appellee], that officials of this agency had committed or attempted to commit acts of misfeasance, nonfeasance and malfeasance." Facts were marshaled to
support the charges that appellee had spoken at a union

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

Opinion of WHrrs, J.

meeting "to the effect that [Verduin and his assistant]
had attempted to bribe Mr. James White Eagle Stewart
by offering him a $100,000 grant of. OEO funds if he
would sign' a statement against you [appellee] and
another employee," and that appellee had spoken of the
bribe to a newspaper reporter and to a radio stat.on.
After appellee had received this notice, he made no
response to the merits of the charges, but insteac wrote
to Verduin requesting that he was entitled to certain
procedural rights at the hearing, one of which was to
have "a genuinely impartial hearing officer," thus
furnishing Verduin with the opportunity to recuse himself and provide an alternative hearing examiner. This
was not done.
In considering appellee's claim to have, an impar'tial
hearing examiner, we might start with a first principle:
"[N]o man shall be a judge in his own cause." Bonham's
Case, 8 Co. 114a, 118a, 77 Eng. Rep. 646, 652 (1610).
Verduin's reputation was certainly at stake in the charges.
brought against Kennedy. Indeed, the heart of the
charge was that Kennedy had spoken of Verduin in reck-.
less disregard of the truth. That Verduin almost seemed
to be stating a libel complaint against Kennedy under
New York Times Co. v. Sullivan, 376 U. S. 254 (1964),
dramatizes the personal conflict which precipitated the
proposed termination.
Our decisions have stressed, in situations analogous to
the one faced here, that the right to an impartial decisionmaker is required by due process. The Court has hbld
that those with a substantial pecuniary interest in legal
proceedings should not adjudicate these disputes. Tumey
v. Ohio, 273 U. S. 510 (1927); Ward v. Village of Monroeville, 409 U. S. 57 (1972). -The Court has observed
that disqualification because of interest has been extended with equal force to administrative adjudications.
Gibson v. Berryhill, 411 U. S. 564, 579 (1973).

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of WHITE, J.

416 U. S.

In the context of contempt before a judge, where a
judge trying a defendant is the object of "efforts to denounce, insult, and slander the court," and "marked
personal feelings were present on both sides," the Court
has held that criminal contempt proceedings should be
held before a judge other than the one reviled by the
contemnor. Mayberry v. Pen nsylvania, 400 U. S. 455,
462, 464 (1971). See In re Oliver, 333.U. S. 257 (1948);
cf. In re Murchison, 349 U. S. 133 (1955).
We have also stressed the need for impartiality in adnainisf.rative proceedings, stating in Goldberg v. Kelly,
supra that an "impartial decision maker is essential,"
397 U. S., at 271. (Citations omitted.) To the same
effect Jas Morrissey v. Brewer, 408 U. S. 471, 485-486
(1972), involving revocation of parole. In both Goldberg and Morrissey, this requirement was held to apply
to pretermination hearings.'
It may be true that any hearing without an impartial
hearing officer will reflect the bias of the adjudicator.
The interest of the Government in not so providing
would appear slim. Given the pretermination hearing,
it would seem in the Government's interest to avoid
lengthy appeals occasioned by biased initial judgments,
and it would be reasonable to expect more correct
decisions at the initial stage at little cost if the hearing
officer is impartial.
12 In Pickering v. Board of Education, 391 U. S. 563, 579 n. 2
(1968), where the Court set aside a discharge by a Board of Education of a teacher for writing a letter to a newspaper attacking the
Board, the trier of fact, the Board, was the same body that was
the object of accusations in the letter. Although the Court did not
rule on the due process question, since it was first raised here, it
observed that "we do not proposc to blind ourselves to the obvious
defects in the fact-finding process occasioned by the Board's multiple
functioning vis-a-vis appellant," citing Tumey v. Ohio, 273 U. S. 510
(1927), and In re Murchison, 349 U. S. 133 (1955).

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

Opinion of

WHrrE, J.

My view is a narrower one, however. Fairness and
accuracy are not always threatened simply because the
hearing examiner is the supervisor of an employee, or,
as in this case, the Regional Director over many
employees, including appellee. But here the hearing
official was the object of slander that was the basis for
the employee's proposed discharge. See Mayberry v.
Pennsylvania, supra. In ruling that the employee was
to be terminated, the hearing examiner's own reputation,
as well as the efficiency of the service, was at stake; and
although Mr. Verduin may have succeeded, in fact, in
disassociating his own personal feelings from his decision
as to the interests of OEO, the risk and the appearance
that this was not the case were too great to tolerate. In
such situations the official normally charged with .,the
discharge decision need only recuse and transfer the file
to a person qualified to make the initial decision. We
need not hold that the Lloyd-La Follette Act is unconstitutional for its lack of provision for an impartial hearing
examiner. Congress is silent on the matter. We would
rather assume, because of the constitutional problems
in not so providing, that, if faced with the question
(at least on the facts of this case) Congress would have so
provided. Volkswagenwerk v. FMC, 390 U. S. 261, 272
(1968). "Where administrative action has raised serious
constitutional problems, the Court has assumed that
Congress or the President intended to 'afford those
affected by the action the traditional safeguards of due
process." Greene v. McElroy, 360 U. S., at 507 (citations
omitted) .13
13 We further note that appellants suggest .that "the Act and
regulations, fairly construed, require the determination of cause. to
be made without bias." Brief for Appellants 24 n. 12.

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of

WHITE, J.

416 U. S.

B
Appellee also claims a right to a full trial-type hearing
at the pretermination stage, particularly asserting that
he is denied due process, if not given the opportunity to
present and cross-examine witnesses.
While fully realizing the value of a full trial-type
hearing as a method for ultimate resolution of the facts,
see id., at 496-497, the pretermination hearing is not held
for the purpose of making such an ultimate determination. This is provided for through the appeal procedure
where the employee is afforded the procedural rights he
now seeks at an earlier stage of the proceedings. The
function of the pretermination hearing is, and no more is
required by due process, to make a probable-cause determination as to whether the charges brought against the
employee are or are not true. Where the Court has held
that pretermination hearings are required, in past decisions, it has spoken sparingly of the procedures to be required. Sniadach was silent on the matter, and Fuentes
merely required something more than an*ex parte proceeding before a court clerk. In Bell, the Court held that
the hearing must involve a probable-cause determination
as to the fault of the licensee, and "need not take the form
of a full adjudication of the question of liability," realiz,ing that "[a] procedural rule that may satisfy due process
in one context may not necessarily satisfy due process
in every case." 402 U. S., at 540. Thus, "procedural
due process [was to] be satisfied by an inquiry limited
to the determination whether there is a reasonable possibility of judgments in the amounts claimed being rendered against the licensee." Ibid.. We think the clear
implication of Bell to be that "full adjudication," including presentation of witnesses and cross-examination, need
not be provided in every case where a pretermination

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

Opinion of

WHITE, J.

hearing of some kind is required by due process or provided by the statute.
In Goldberg v. Kelly, the Court struck a different note
on procedures. "Although stating that the only function
of the pretermination'hearing was "to produce an initial
determination of the validity of the welfare department's
grounds for discontinuance of payments," and seemingly
adopting a probablo-cause standard, the Court required
cross-examination of witnesses relied upon by the department. The Court was careful to observe, however, that
these procedural rules were "tailored to the capacities and
circumstances of those who are to be heard." 397 U. S.,
at 267, 268-269. The decision to cut off AFDC welfare
payments leaves the recipient literally without any means
to survive or support a family. While this level of
deprivation may not be insisted upon as a necessary
condition for requiring some kind of pretermination hearing, it may well be decisive in requiring the Government to provide specific procedures at the pretermination
stage. The greater the level of deprivation which may
flow from a decision, the less one may tolerate the risk
of a mistaken decision, cf. Morrissey v. Brewer, supra,
and thus the Court in Goldberg, while maintaining that
the pretermination hearing was in the nature of a probable-cause determination, was less willing to allow a
margin of error as to probable cause. Rules of procedure
are often shaped by the risk of making an erroneous
determination. See In re Winship, 397 U. S. 358, 368
(1970) (Harlan, J., concurring). Indeed, all that was
specifically not required in Goldberg was a complete
record and a comprehensive opinion. 397 U. S., at 267.
In this case, the employee is not totally without
prospect for some form of support during the period between the pretermination and final hearing on appeal,
though it may not be equivalent in earnings or tenure

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of

WHITE, J.

416 U. S.

to his prior competitive service position. Although the
employee may not be entitled to unemployment compensation, see Christianv. New York Dept. of Labor, 414
U. S. 614 (1974), since he has been terminated for cause
he may get some form of employment in the private sector, and, if necessary, may draw on the welfare system in
the interim. Given this basic floor of need, which the system provides, we should not hold that procedural due
process is so inflexible as to require the Court to hold that
the procedural protections, of a written statement and oral
presentation to an impartial liaring examiner provided'
by regulation, are insufficient. The Court stated in
Richardsonv. Wright, 405 U. S. 208 (1972), that new regulations of the Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare required that Social Security disability payments
were not 'to be suspended in a pretermination hearing
without "notice of a proposed suspension and the reasons
therefor, plus an opportunity to submit rebuttal evidence," but could be without an oral presentation, since
"[iln the context of a comprehensive complex administrative program, the administrative process must have a
reasonable opportunity to evolve procedures to meet
needs as they arise." Cf. Torres.v. New York State Department of Labor, 333 F. Supp. 341 (SDNY 1971), aff'd,
405 U. S. 949 (1972). Nebessarily, to some extent, the
Court must share with Congress, in an area where one is
called upon to judge the efficacy of particular procedures,
a role in defining constitutional requirements, and Congress explicitly left it to the discretion of the agency. as to
whether such procedures were required. I would not
upset that judgment in this case.
In accord with these views, I would affirm the judgment of the three-judge court, ordering reinstatement
and backpay, due to the failure to provide an impartial
hearing officer at the pretermination hearing. I would

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting

reverse that part of the court's order enjoining the -application of the statute on First Amendment vagueness
and overbreadth grounds.
dissenting.
The federal bureaucracy controls a vast conglomerate
of people who walk more and more submissively to the
dictates of their superiors. Our federal employees have
lost many important political rights. CSC v. Letter
Carriers, 413 U. S. 548, held that they could be barred
from taking "an active part in political management
or in political campaigns," a restriction that some of us
thought to be unconstitutional, id., at 595 et seq.
(DOUGLAS, J., dissenting).
Today's decision deprives
them of other important-First Amendment rights.
Heretofore, as my Brother MARSHALL has shown, we
have insisted that before a vital stake of the individual
in society is destroyed by government he be given a
hearing on the merits of the government's claim.
Among these personal and vital stakes are welfare benefits, Goldberg v. Kelly, 397 U. S. 254; the weekly wage
of a worker, Sniadach v. Family Finance Corp., 395 U. S.
337; a person's driver's license, Bell v. Burson, 402 U. S.
535; repossession of household goods, Fuentes v. Shevin,
407 U. S. 67; the position of a tenured professor in a
state educational institution, Board of Regents v. Roth,
408 1J. S. 564; revocation of parole, Morrissey v. Brewer,
408 U. S. 471.
There is more than employment and a job at issue
in this case. The stake of the federal employee is not
only in a livelihood, but in his right to speak guark.nteed
by the First Amendment. He ig charged with having
stated that his superior and the superior's assistant
had attempted to bribe a representative of a community
action organization with whom the agency (OEO) had
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting

416 U. S.

dealings. He is charged with having stated that those
men offered a bribe of $100,000 in OEO funds to that
organization if .its representative would sign a statement against appellee and another OEO employee.
This statement in my view was on a subject in the
public domain. We all know merely by living in Washington, D. C., the storms that have swept through that
agency and its branches. It has dealt with inflammatory problems in the solution of which inflammatory
utterances are often made. I realize that it is the tradition of the Court to "balance" the right of free speech
againht other governmental interests and to sustain the
First Amendment right only when the Court deems that
in a given situation its importance outweighs competing interests. That was the approach in Pickering v.
Board of Education, 391 U. S. 563, where the Court
deemed what a teacher said against the school board
was mot& important than the board's sensibilities. The
Court, however, reserved decision where the comments
of an employee involved "either discipline by immediate
superiors or harmony among coworkers," id., at 570.
That is one reason why Mr. Justice Black and I concurred
in the result. citing, inter alia, our opinion in Time, Inc.
v,Hill, 385 U. S. 374. Mr. Justice Black said that the
"balancing" or "weighing" doctrine "plainly encourages
and actually invites judges to choose for themselves between conflicting values, even where, as in the First
Amendment, the Founders made a choice of values, one
of which is a free press. Though the Constitution requires that judges swear to obey. and enforce it, it is
not altogether strange that all judges are not always
dead set against constitutional interpretations that expand their powers, and that when power is once claimed
by some, others are loath to give it up," id., at 399-400.
The fact that appellee in the present case inveighed

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

DouoLAs, J., dissenting

against his superior is irrelevant. The matter on which
he spoke was in the public domain. His speaking may
well have aroused such animosity in his superior
as to disqualify him from being in charge of disciplinary
proceedings; I and conceivably it could cause disharmony
among workers. And these consequences are quite
antagonistic to the image which agencies have built.
Their dominant characteristic is the application of
Peter's Inversion. See L. Peter & R. Hull, The Peter

Principle 24-26 (Bantam ed. 1970).

In a few words

Peter's Inversion marks the incompetent cadre's interest
2
in an employee's input, not his output.
His input reflects his attitude toward the cadre, and

toward his work.

A pleasant manner, promotion of staff

harmony, servility to the cadre, and promptness, civility,
and submissiveness are what count. The result is a
1 A judge so reviled is normally not the one to sit in judgment

in a criminal contempt proceeding. Mayberry v. Pennsylvania, 400
U. S. 455. Cf. Goldberg v. Kelly, 397 U. S. 254, 271.
2 "The competence of an employee is determined not by outsiders
but by his superior in the hierarchy. If the superior is still at a
level of competence, he may evaluate his subordinates in terms of
the performance of useful work-for example, the applying of medical services of information, the production of sausages or table legs
or achieving whatever are the stated aims of the hierarchy. That
is to say, he evaluates output.
"But if the superior has reached his level of inccmpetence, he
will probably rate his subordinates in terms of institutional values;
he will see competence as the behavior that supports the niles,
rituals and forms of the status quo. Promptness, neatness, courtesy
to superiors, internal paperwork, will be highly regarded. In short,
such an official evaluates input . . .
"In such instances, internal consistency is valued more highly
than efficient service: this is Peter's Inversion. AL professional
automaton may also be termed a 'Peter's Invert.' H, has inverted
the means-end relationship." L. Peter & R. Hull, The Peter Principle 25 (Bantam ed. 1970).

538. 22 0 - 75 - IS

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

416 U. S.

great leveling of employees. They hear the beat of only
one drum and march to it. These days employers have
psychological tests by which they can separate the ingenious, offbeat character who may make trouble from
the more subservient type. It is, of course, none of a
court's problem what the employment policies may be.'
But once an employee speaks out on a public issue and
is punished for it, we have a justiciable issue. Appellee
is in my view being penalized by the Federal Government
for exercising his right to speak out. The excuse or
pretense is an Act of Congress and an agency's regulations promulgated under it in the teeth of the First
Amendment: "Congress shall make no law ... abridging
the freedom of speech, or. of the press . . . ." Losing
one's job with the Federal Government because of one's
discussion of an issue in the public domain is certainly
an abridgment of speech.
MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL, with whom MR. JusTICE
DOUGLAS and MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN concur, dissenting.
I would affirm the judgment of the District Court, both
in its holding that a tenured Government employee must
be afforded an evidentiary hearing prior to a dismissal
for cause and in its decision that 5 U. S. C. § 7501 is
unconstitutionally vague and overbroad as a regulation of
employees' speech.
I
The first issue in this case is a relatively narrow onewhether a federal employee in the competitive service,
entitled by statute to serve in his job without fear of
3Apart from discrimination based on race, Griggs v. Duke Power
Co., 401 U. S. 424, or on other suspect classifications such as sex.

See id., at 436; 42 U. S. C. § 2000e-2; Frontiero v. Richardson, 411
U. S. 677, 682 et seq.

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

MARSHALL,

J., .dissenting

dismissal except for cause,1 must be given an evidentiary
hearing before he is discharged. We are'hardly writing
on a clean slate in this area. In just the last five years,
the Court has held that such a hearing must be afforded
before wages can be garnished, Sniadach v. Family
Finance Corp., 395 U. S. 337 (1969); welfare benefits
terminated, Goldberg v. Kelly, 397 U. S. 254 (1970); a
driver's license revoked, Bell v. Burson, 402 U. S. 535
(1971); consumer goods repossessed, Fuentes v.Shevin,
407 U. S,67 (1972); parole revoked, Morrissey v. Brewer,
408 U. S. 471 (1972); or a tenured college professor fired
by a public educational institution, Board of Regents v.
Roth, 408 U. S. 564 (1972); Perry v. Sindermann, 408
A
U. S. 593 (1972).

In the Roth and Sindermann cases, MR.

JUSTICE STEW-

established the framework for analysis to determine
in what circumstances the Due Process Clause demands
a hearing. He observed that although dje process is a
flexible concept, itis not unlimited in application. "The
requirements of procedural due process apply only to the
deprivation of interests encompassed by the Fourteenth
Amendment's protection of liberty and property." . Roth,
supra, at 569. Thus the first issue to be decided is whether
appellee had an interest in his tenured Government employment such that his discharge amounts to a deprivation of liberty or property.
The decisions of this Court have given constitutic.nal
recognition to the fact that in our complex mocern
society, wealth and property take many forms. 2 We

ART

15 U.S. C. § 7501 (a).
2 One noted commentator has observed:
"Changes in the forms of wealth are not remarkable in themselves;

culture.

the forms are constantly

changing and differ in every

But today more and more of our wealth takes the form

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
MARSHALL, J., dissenting

416 U. S.

have said that property interests requiring constitutional

protection "extend well beyond actual ownership of real

estate, chattels, or money." Roth, supra, at 572. They
extend as well to "safeguard . . . the security of interests
that a person has already acquired in specific benefits."
Id., at 576.

The test for whether a protected interest has

been infringed reflects this broad concept of "property":
"To have a property interest in a benefit, a person . . .must ... have a legitimate claim of entitlement to it. It is a purpose of the ancient institution
of property

to protect

those claims upon which

people rely in their daily lives, reliance that must
not be arbitrarily undermined."

Id., at 577.

Accordingly, in Goldberg v. Kelly, supra, the Court
found that public assistance recipients had such a claim
of entitlement to welfare benefits grounded in the statute
defining eligibility. In Bell v. Burson, supra, the Court

held that a deiver's license, once issued, becomes an important property interest because its "continued possession may become essential in the pursuit of a livelihood."
402 U. S., at 539. More to the point, in Roth the Court
of rights or status rather than of tangible goods. An individual's
profession or.occupation is a prime example. To many others, a
job with a particular employer is the principal form of wealth.
A profession or job is frequently far more valuable than a house or
bank account, for a new house can be bought, and a new bank
account created, once a profession or job is secure." Reich, The
New Property, 73 Yale L. J. 733, 738 (1964).
"Society today is built around entitlement [and m]any of the
most important of these entitlements now flow from government . . . . Such sources of security . . . are no longer regarded
as luxuries or gratuities; to the recipients they are essentials, fully
deserved, and in no sense a form of charity." Reich, Individual
Rights and Social Welfare: The Emerging Legal Issues, 74 Yale
L. J. 1245, 1255 (1965).

ARNETT v. KENNEDY

134

MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

surveyed the constitutional restraints applicable in the
area of public employment:
"[T]he Court has held that a public college professor
dismissed from an office held under tenure provisions, Slochower v. Board of Education, 350 U. S. 551,
and college professors and staff members dismissed
during the terms of their contracts, Wieman -v.
Updegraff, 344 U. S. 183, have interests in continued
employment that are safeguarded by due process."
408 U. S., at 576-577.
See also Connell v. Higginbotham, 403 U. S. 207 (1971).
In Perry v. Sindermann, supra, we found a property
interest in the implied tenure policy of a state university.
We have already determined that a legitimate claim
of entitlement to continued employment absent "sufficient
cause" is a property interest requiring the protections of
procedural due process.
Thus, there can be little doubt
that appellee's tenured Government employment, from
which he could not legally be dismissed except for cause,
must also be a "property" interest for the purposes of
the Fifth Amendment.
The job security appellee
enjoyed is clearly one of "those claims upon which people
rely in their daily, lives."
Roth, supra, at 577.
And appellee's interest in continued public employment
encompassed more than just the periodic accrual of
wages. His dismissal also affects his valuable statutory
entitlements to retirement credits and benefits, 5 U. S. C.
§§ 8301, 8311-8322, 8331-8348; periodic salary increases,
5 U. S. C. § 5335; and life and health insurance, 5 U. S. C.
§§ 8701-8716, 8901-8913 (1970 ed. and Supp II).
We are in agreement that appellee does have a claim
of entitlement to his Government job, absent proof of
3 Board of Regents v. Roth, 408 U. S. 564, 576-578 (1972); Perry
v. Sindermann,408 U. S. 593, 599-603 (1972).

OCTOBER TEP.M, 1973
MARSHALL, J., dissenting

416 U. S.

specified misconduct. MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST explains,
however, that this claim is founded only in statute,
and that the statute which guarantees tenure also provides that a hearing is not required before discharge.
He concludes that "the property interest which appellee
had in his employment was itself conditioned by the
procedural limitations which had accompanied the grant
of that interest," dnte, at 155, wryly observing that "Alitigant in the position of appellee must take the bitter with'
the sweet," ante, at 154.
Courts once considered procedural due process protections inapplicable to welfare on much the same theorythat "in accepting charity, the appellant has consented to
the provisions of the law under which charity is
bestowed."' Obviously, this Court rejected that reasoning in Goldberg, supra, where we held that conditions
under which public assistance was afforded, which did
not include a pretermination hearing, were violative of
due process.' In Sindermann,supra, the Court held that
the Constitution required a hearing before dismissal
even where the implicit grant of tenure did not encompass
the right to' such a hearing. In Morrissey v. Brewer,
408 U. S. 471 (1972), the Court held that although the
limited grant of liberty afforded by parole was conditioned
by statute on the possibility of revocation without a
prior evidentiary hearing, such a hearing was. constitutionally, requited.
In Bell v. Burson, supra, the
4 Wilkie v. O'Connor, 261 App. Div. 373, 375, 25 N. Y. S. 2d 617,
620 (1941).
5 The mechanism for welfare terminations is described in Goldberg v. Kelly, 397 U. S. 254, 258-260 (1970). In short, the procedure involved prior notice and an opportunity to respond in
writing before termination as well as a full trial-type hearing before
an independent state official after the termination had been effected.
If the recipient prevailed at the later hearing he would be entitled
to recover any funds wrongfully withheld.

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

state statute under which drivers' licenses were is-

sued provided for the suspension of an uninsured
motorist's license without a prior hearing. The Court
nonetheless held that a hearing was required before the
suspension could be effected. In none of these cases
did the Court consider a statutory procedure to be an
inherent limitation on the statutorily created liberty or
property interest.6 Rather, once such an interest was
found, the Court determined whether greater procedural
protections were required by the Due Process Clause
than were accorded by the statute.
Applying that analysis here requires us to find that
although appellee's property interest arose from statute,
the deprivation of his claim of entitlement to continued
employment would have to meet minimum standards of
procedural due process regardless of the discharge
procedures provided by the statute. Accordingly, a
majority of the Court rejects MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST'S
argument that because appellee's entitlement arose from
statute, it could be conditioned on a statutory limitation
of procedura. due process protections, an approach which
would render such protection inapplicable to the deprivation of any statutory benefit-any "privilege" extended
by Government-where a statute prescribed a termination procedure, no matter how arbitrary or unfair. It
would amount to nothing less than a return, albeit in
somewhat different verbal garb, to the thoroughly discredited distinction between rights and privileges which
once seemed to govern the applicability of procedural
due process.'
6 Although

Perry v.

Sindermann, supra, did not

involve a

statutorily created interest, it is plainly analogous in that the dc facto
tenure program on which Sindermann's claim of entitlement was
grounded did not explicitly include the right to a hearing.
*In a leading case decided many years ago, the Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia Circuit held that procedural due

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

416 U. S.

B
We have repeatedly observed that due process requires
that a hearing be held "at a meaningful time and in a
meaningful manner," Armstrong v. Manzo, 380 U. S. 545,
552 (1965), but it remains for us to give content to that
general principle in this case by balancing the Government's asserted interests against those- of the discharged employee. Goldberg v. Kelly, 397 U. S., at 263;
see Cafeteria Workers v. McElroy, 367 U. S. 886, 895
(1961).
The interests of a public employee in a secure Government job are as weighty as other interests which we
have found to require at least the rudimentary protection of an evidentiary hearing as a precondition to
termination.
"This Court has often had occasion to note that the
denial of public employment is a serious blow to any
citizen ....

Employment is one of the greatest, if

not the greatest, benefits that governments offer in
modern-day life." Roth, 408 U. S., at 589 (MARSHALL, J., dissenting).
See Perry v. Sindermann, supra; Connell v. Higginbotham, 403 U. S. 207 (1971); Keyishian v. Board of
process protections did not apply to Government employment because it was merely a privilege and not a right. Bailey v. Richard-

son, 86 U. S. App. D. C. 248, 182 F. 2d 46 (1950), aff'd by an equally
divided Court, 341 U. S. 918 (1951). As we have previously ob-

served, "t]he basis of this holding has been thoroughly undermined
in the ensuing years."

Board of Regents v. Roth, 408 U. S., at 571

n. 9. "[T]he Court has fully and finally rejected the wooden distinction between 'rights' and 'privileges'.

..

." Id., at 571.

For example,

the Court has found constitutional restraints applicable to disqualification for unemployment compensation, Sherbert v. Verner, 374 U. S.
398 (1963); denial of a tax exemption, Speiser v. Randall, 357 U. S.
513 (1958); termination of welfare benefits, Goldberg v. Kelly, supra;
and dismissal from public employment, e. g., Slochower v. Board of
Higher Education, 350 U. S. 551 (1956).

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

MARSHALL,

.213

J., dissenting

Regents, 385 U. S.589 (1967); Cramp v. Board of Public
Instruction, 368 U. S. 278, 288 (1961); Anti-Fascist
Committee v. McGrath, 341 U. S. 123, 185 (1951)
(Jackson, J., concurring); United States v. Lovett, 328
U. S. 303, 316-317 (1946). The Court has recognized
the vital importance of employment in related contexts.
In Sniadach v. Family Finance Corp., the Court expressed
its particular concern that "garnishment [of wages] often
meant the loss of a job," 395 U. S., at 340, and in Bell v.
Burson, supra,we relied heavily on the fact that a driver's
license may be "essential in the pursuit of a livelihood,"
402 U. S., at 539. In Greene v. McElroy, 360 U. S. 474,
508 (1959), the Court construed federal security clearance regulations to avoid the constitutional issues that
would be presented if the petitioner were deprived "of his
job in a proceeding in which he was not afforded the safeguards of [procedural due process]." See id., at 506-507;
Willner v. Committee on Character,373 U. S.96, 103-104
(1963).
An exhaustive study by the United States Administrative Conference of the problem of agency dismissals
led the author of the Conference's report to observe:
"One cannot escape the conclusion, however,,that the
government employee who is removed from his job
loses something of tremendous value that in a market
of declining demand for skills may not be

replaceable."

8

And the report also observes:
"[O]ne must acknowledge what seems to be an
accepted, if regrettable, fact of life: Removal from
•government employment for cause carries a stigma
Merrill, Report in Support of Recommendation 72-8, Procedures for Adverse Actions Against Federal Employees, in 2 Recommendations and Reports of the Administrative Conference of the
United States 1007, 1015 (1972) (hereinafter Merrill).

214.

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

416 U. S.

that is probably impossible to outlive. Agency personnel officers are generally prepared to concede...
that it is difficult for the fired government worker
to find employment in the private sector." '
Dismissal from public employment for cause may also,
therefore, implicate liberty interests in imposing on the
discharged employee a stigma of incompetence or wrongdoing that forecloses "his freedom to take advantage of
other employment opportunicies." Roth, supra, at 573;
see Wisconsin v. Constantineau,400 U. S. 433,437 (1971).
Given the importance of the interest at stake, the discharged employee should be afforded an opportunity to
test the strength of the evidence of his misconduct
by confronting and cross-examiriing adverse witnesses
and by presenting witnesses in his own behalf, whenever there are substantial disputes in testimonial evidence. See Morrissey v. Brewer, 408 U. S., at 487.
A dismissal for cause often involves disputed questions
of fact raised by accusations of misconduct. Mistakes
of identity, distortions caused by the failure of information sources, faulty perceptions or cloudy memories, as
well as fabrications born of personal antagonisms are
among the factors which may undermine the accuracy
of the factual determinations upon which dismissals are
based. The possibility of error is not insignificant.
Almost a fourth of all appeals from adverse agency
actions result in reversal."
In our system of justice, the right of confrontation
9 Ibid. The report of the Administrative Conference seems to bear
out my Brother DOUGLAS' recent observation:
"Once there is a discharge from a . . . federal agency, dismissal
may be a badge that bars the employee from other federal
employment. The shadow of that discharge is cast over the area
where private employment may be available." Sampson v. Murray,
415 U. S. 61, 95 (1974) (dissenting).
10 Merrill 1014 n. 33.

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

provides the crucible for testing the truth of accusations
such as' those leveled by appellee's superior and strenuously denied by appellee. "In almost every setting
where important decisions turn on questions of fact, due
process requires an opportunity to confront and crossexamine adverse witnesses." Goldberg v. Kelly, 397 U. S.,
at 269 (citations omitted)." The Goldberg Court's citation to a well-known passage from Greene v. McElroy,
360 U. S. 474 (1959), is equally applicable to a dismissal
from public employment for cause as to a termination
of welfare benefits.
"'Certain princijles have remained immutable in
our jurisprudence. One of these-is that where government action seriously injures an individual, and
the reasonableness of the action depends on fact findings; the evidence used to prove the Government's
case must be disclosed to the individual so that he
has an opportunity to show that it is untrue. While
this is important in the case of documentary evidence, it is even more important where the evidence
consists of the testimony of individuals whose memory might be faulty or who, in fact, might be perjur. ers or persons motivated by malice, vindictiveness,
intolerance, prejudice or jealousy. We have formalized these protections in the requirements of confrontation'and cross-examination.'"
Id., at 496-497,
quoted in Goldberg v. Kelly, supra,at 270.
See also Chambers v. Mississippi, 410 U. S. 284, 295-298
(1973); Pointer v. Texas, 380 U. S. 400 (1965)..
n This case presents no question as to. the requirements of due
process "where there are no factual issues in dispute or where.
the application of the rule of law is not intertwined with factual
issues." Goldberg v. Kelly, 397 U. S., at 268 n. 15; see Mills v.
Richardson, 464 F. 2d 995, 1001 (CA2 1972); cf. FCC v. WJR,
337 U. S. 265, 275-277 (1949); 1 K. Davis, Administrative Law
Treatise 412 (1958).

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

416 U. S.

This case and Goldberg involve the termination of
income, whether in salary or public assistance payments,
upon which the recipient may depend for basic sustenance. A person should not be deprived of his livelihood
"ina proceeding in which he was not afforded the safeguards of confrontation and cross-examination." Greene,
supra, at 508; see Jenkins v. McKeithen, 395 U. S. 411,
423-429 (1969); Willner v. Committee on Character,
373 U. S., at 103. The stakes are just too high
and the possibility of misjudgment too great to allow
dismissal without giving the tenured public employee
an opportunity to contest its basis and produce evidence
in rebuttal. See Goldberg, supra, at 266.
It also seems clear that for the hearing to be meaningful, the hearing officer must be independent and unbiased and his decision be entitled to some weight. We
addressed the importance of this element of due process in Goldberg, supra, where we found the requirements of due process were not met by the review of a
welfare termination decision by the caseworker who
was, in effect, also the complainant. 397 U. S., at 271.
In Morrissey v. Brewer, supra, we held that an independent decisionmaker must determine whether reasonable grounds exist for parole revocation because
an "officer directly involved inmaking recommendations
cannot always have complete objectivity in evaluating
them." 408 U. S., at 486. The need for an independent
decisionmaker is particularly crucial in the public employment context, where the reason for the challenged
dismissal may well be related to some personal antagonism between the employee and his superior, as appears to
be the case here.12 See Pickering v. Board of Education,
391 U. S.563, 578-579, Appendix n. 2 (1968).
See ante, at 137-138. Cf. T. Arnold, Fair Fights and Foul 151
(1965) (describing the potential abuse in a situation where the head
12

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

C
A discharged federal worker in the competitive service

is, in fact, guaranteed a full evidentiary hearing before
an impartial decisionmaker whose report is entitled to

considerable weight. 3 But the timing of the hearing is
discretionary with the employing agency, see 5 CFR
§ 771.208 (a) (1972), and in many agencies, such as the
OEO, the hearing comes long after the employee has

been removed from the Government service and payroll.
In a sense, then, the real issue is not whether appellee
must be accorded an .evidentiary hearing, but only
whether that hearing should have been afforded before
his discharge became effective.
Although the nature

of the hearing required by due process is determined by a balancing process, that hearing must be

held at a meaningful time.

Accordingly, the Court has

embraced a general presumption that one who is consti-

tutionally entitled to a hearing should be heard before
the deprivation of his liberty or property takes place.
Thus, in Boddie v. Connecticut, 401 U. S. 37i (1971),

the Court observed that the fact that "the hearing
is not fixed in form does not affect its root require-of a department is the decisionmaker in a public employee discharge
proceeding).
'3 The discharged employee is entitled to a full trial-type proceeding before a single examiner who may not occupy a position
directly or indirectly under the jurisdiction of the official who
proposed the dismissal or who bears ultimate responsibility for
that decision. The examiner's decision is afforded substantial weight;
if it is rejected, the rejection must be accompanied by a full statement of reasons that is subject to review. Both the employee and
the agency may produce, examine, and cross-examine witnesses under
oath or affirmation, and documentary evidence may also be introduced. Rigorous trial formality is avoided and care taken not to
place an uncounseled employee at a disadvantage. See Merrill
1038-1040; 5 CFR §§ 771.209-471.211 (1972)..

OCTOBER' TERM, 1973
MARSHALL,

.J., dissenting

416 U. S.

ment that an individual be given an opportunity for a
hearing before he is deprived of any significant property
interest, except for extraordinary situations where some
valid governmental interest is at stake that justifies
postponing the hearing until after the event." Id.,
at 378379. (Emphasis in orginal.) In Bell v. Burson,
supra, we held that "except in emergency situations...
due process requires that when a State seeks to terminate
ai, [important property] interest... it must afford 'notice
and opportunity for hearing ... ' before the termination
becomes effective." 402 U. S., at 542 (emphasis in original) (footnote omitted). In Goldberg v. Kelly, supra,
the Court found that an evidentiary hearing held after
the termination of welfare benefits was inadequate to
satisfy constitutional requirements. 4
Even if we accept appellants' assertion that a subsequent hearing affords the discharged employee an
opportunity to clear his name,' the worker still has a
significant interest in retaining his job pending a full
hearing." Almost a fourth of all appeals from agency
14The procedure in Goldberg also involved a pretermination right
of reply and a full trial-type hearing after termination, see n. 5,
supra, but the scheme was nonetheless found not to satisfy due
process requirements and a full pretermination hearing was required.
See O'Neil, Of Justice Delayed and Justice Denied; The Welfare
Prior Hearing Cases, 1970 Sup. Ct. Rev. 161, 169.
15See n. 9, supra,and n. 19, infra.
16Both MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST and MR. JUSTICE WHITE
dismiss the need for a full prior hearing partially by reference
to the Court's decision in Cafeteria Workers v. McElroy, 367
U. S. 886 (1961).
That case is entirely inapposite. First,
it involved not the dismissal for cause of a tenured civil service
employee, but rather the withdrawal of the security clearance
of the employee of a private contractor, which, in effect, barred
the worker from her job in the commissary at a military base.
The employer was prepared to employ the worker at another of
his restaurants, so the withdrawal of her security clearance was not

ARNEIT v. KENNEDY
134

MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

dismissals result in a finding that the termination was
illegal."' And, the delay from discharge to ultimate
vindication at a hearing on appeal is far from insubstantial. More than 75% of adverse personnel actions take
more than two months to process; over half take more
than three months and a not insignificant number take
more than a year.18 The longer the period between the
discharge and the hearing, the more devastating will be
the impact of the loss of employment.
During the period of delay, the employee is off
the Government payroll. His ability to secure other
employment to tide himself over may be significantly
hindered by the outstanding charges against him."9 Even
aside from the stigma that attends a dismissal for cause,
few employers will be willing to hire and train a new employee knowing that he *Will return to a former
Government position as soon as an appeal is successful."0
apt to cause the serious financial hardship that appellee's dismissal
from public employment might entail. See Board of Regents .v.
Roth, 408 U. S., at 584-585 (DOUGLAS, J., dissenting). Moreover,
the Court has since read Cafeteria Workers to be a case where the
Government's "exceptional" interest in national security justified an
abridgment of the right to a hearing. Fuentes v. Shevin, 407 U. S.
67, 91 n. 23 (1972); see Boddie v. Connecticut, 401 U. S'371, 379

(1971).
Merrill 1014 n. 33.
'RId., at 1016.
19 My Brother REHNQUIST argues that the stigma imposed by
dismissal is only temporary in that the discharged employee can
clear his name at the post-hoc hearing, hence does not ."foreclose
his freedom to take advantage of other employment opportunities." Board of Regents v. Roth, 408 U. S., at 573; see n.
9, supra. But the stigma of outstanding charges would nonetheless
be borne by the employee in the interim period while he waits for
his hearing and seeks alternative employment to tide himself over.
20 See, e. g., Hearings on Postal Labor Relations and Employee
Morale before the Subcommittee on Postal Operations of the House
17

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

416 U. S.

And in many Sfates, including Illinois, where appellee
resides, a worker discharged for cause is not even eligible
for unemployment compensation."
Many workers, particularly those at the bottom of the
pay scale, will suffer severe and painful economic dislocations from even a temporary loss of wages. Few
public employees earn more than enough to pay their
expenses from month to month. See Sampson v. Murray, 415 U. S. 61, 97 (1974) (MARSHALL, J., dissenting).
Like many of us, they may be required to meet substantial fixed costs on a regular basis and lack substantial
savings to meet those expenses while not receiving a
salary. The loss of income for even a few weeks may well
impair their ability to provide the essentials of life-to
buy food, meet mortgage or rent payments, or procure
medical services. Ricucci v. United States, 192 Ct. Cl. 1,
9-11, 425 F. 2d 1252, 1256-1257 (1970) (Skelton, J., concurring). The plight of a discharged employee may not be
far different from that of the welfare recipient in Goldberg
who, "pending resolution of a controversy ... may [be]
deprii'e[d] .. .of the very means by which to live while
he waits." 397 U. S., at 264. Appellee, although earning
an annual salary of $16,000 before his dismissal, far above
the mean salary for federal employees,2" was nonetheless
driven to the brink of financial ruin while he waited.
He had to borrow money to support his family, his debts
went unpaid, his family lost the protection of his health
insurance and, finally, he was forced to apply for public
Committee on Post Office and Civil Service, 91st Cong., 1st Sess.
(1969); Kennedy, Adverse Actions in the Agencies-Words and
Deeds-Postal Adverse Action Procedures, 19 Am. U. L. Rev. 398,
412 (1970).
21 See, e. g., Ill. Rev. Stat., c. 48, § 432 (1973); see Christian v.
New York Dept. of Labor, 414 U. S. 614 (1974).
22 See Mandate for Merit: 1972 Annual Report of the United
States Civil Service Commission 64-65.

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

assistance. App. 128 et seq. In this context justice delayed may well be justice denied.
To argue that a dismissal from tenured Government
employment is not a serious enough deprivation to
require a prior hearing because the discharged employee
may draw on the welfare system in the interim, is to
exhibit a gross insensitivity to the plight of these
employees. First, it assumes that the discharged
employee will be eligible for welfare. Often welfare
applicants must be all but stripped of their worldly goods
before being admitted to the welfare roles, hence it is
likely that the employee will suffer considerable hardship before becoming eligible. He may be required not
only to exhaust his savings but also to convert many
of his assets into cash for support before being able to
fall back on public assistance. He may have to give up
his home or cherished personal possessions in order to
become eligible. The argument also assumes all but
instant eligibility which is, sadly, far from likely even
when all the employee's other sources of support have
been depleted.
Moreover, rightly or wrongly, many
people consider welfare degrading and would decline
public assistance even when eligible. Finally, the level
of subsistence provided by welfare is minimal, certainly
less than one is apt to expect from steady employment.
The substitution of a meager welfare grant for a regular
paycheck may bring with it painful and irremediable
personal as well as financial dislocations. A child's
education may be interrupted, a family's home 'lost, a
person's relationship with his friends and even his family
may be irrevocably affected. The costs of being forced,
even temporarily, onto the welfare rolls because of a
wrongful discharge from tenured Government employment cannot be so easily discounted.
Nor does the availability of backpay upon an ultimate

536-272 0 - 75.- 19

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

416 U. S.

finding that the dismissal was improper alleviate the compelling nature of the employee's plight. Cf. Sampson v.
Murray, 415 U. S., at 97 (MARSHALL, J., dissenting). In
Sniadach v. Family Finance Corp., supra,the Court recognized that the employee had an interest in the enjoyment
of his wages as they accrued and noted that even a temporary loss of salary could put a wage earner below the poverty level or "drive a wage-earning family to the wall."
395 U. S., at 341-342. Thus, we held that a wage earner
is entitled to a hearing prior to the garnishment of his
wages even though he would ultimately get his frozen
earnings back when and if he prevailed in a suit on the
merits. See also, id., at 343 (Harlan, J., concurring).
And, in Fuentes v. Shevin, 407 U. S.67 (1972), the Court
held that due process required a hearing before a seizure
of property by writ of replevin, observing:
"If the right to notice and a hearing is to serve its
full purpose, then, it is clear that it must be granted
at a time when the deprivation can still be prevented. At a later hearing, an individual's possessions can be returned to :,im if they were unfairly
or mistakenly taken in the first place. Damages
may even be awarded to h;- for wrr ful deprivation. But no later hearing and no tamage award
can undo the fact that the arbitrary taking that was
subject to the right of procedural due process had already occurred. 'This Court has not . . .embraced
the general proposition that a wrong may be done
if it can be undone.' " Rd, at 81-82.
The Fuentes Court, applying these considerations, albeit
-indicta, observed *tbat, "[ijn cases involving deprivations of other interests, such as government employment, the Court similarly has required an unusually
important governmental need to outweigh the right to a
prior hearing."
Id., at 91 n. 23.

134

ARNET

.KENNEDY

MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

The Court has recognized a number of instances
where a vital governmental interest may outweigh the
right to a prior hearing, including the need to seize
property to "collect the internal revenue of the United
States, to meet the needs of a national war effort, to
protect against the economic disaster of a bank failure,
and to protect the public from misbranded drugs and
contaminated foods." Id., at 92 (footnotes omitted)."
Such a vital interest is clearly lacking here.
The Government's asserted interests in not affording
a predismissal hearing are twofold. First, appellants
argue that the delay in holding the hearing makes the
functioning of the agency more efficient. We rejected
a similar rationale in Goldberg, 397 U. S., at 266, and observed in Fuentes, supra:
"A prior hearing always imposes some costs in time,
effort, and expense, and it is often more efficient to
dispense with the opportunity for such a hearing.
But these rather ordinary costs cannot outweigh
the constitutional right. Procedural due process is
not intended to promote efficiency or accommodate
all possible interests: it is intended to protect the
particular interests of the person whose possessions
[or property] are about to be taken.
[T]he Constitution recognizes higher values
than speed and efficiency. Indeed, one might fairly
say of the Bill of Rights in general, and the Due Process Clause in par'ticular, that they were designed to
protect the fragile values of a vulnerable citizenry
from the overbearing concern for efficiency and efficacy that may characterize praiseworthy government
officials no less, and perhaps more, than mediocre
23 See, e. g., Central Union Trust Co. v. Garvan, 254 U. S. 554,
566 (1921); Phillips v. Commissioner, 283 U. S. 589, 597 (1931);
Ewina v. Mytinger & Casselberry, 339 U. S.594 (1950).

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

ones.'"
407 U. S., at 90-91, n
omitted).

416 U. S.

22 (citations

Moreover, the Government's interest in efficiency in
this case is entirely unconvincing. The applicable
statute does not prohibit prior hearings but rather
makes them discretionary with the agency. Nine federal
agencies, including the FCC, NLRB, HUD, HEW, the
Department of Justice, and the Civil Service Commission
itself, regularly accord evidentiary hearings prior to the
dismissal of a tenured employee.2 4 The Administrative
Conference of the United States, on the basis of its
exhaustive study of federal agency proceedings for the
dismissal of employees in the competitive service, strongly
recommended that evidentiary hearings be held prior to
28
discharge.
The Administrative Conference found that the evidence, although inconclusive, indicates that the agencies
that provided pretermination hearings closed adverse
action proceedings more quickly than those which did
not hold an evidentiary hearing until after the dismissal
had been effected. It also found that the delays in
closing cases involving hearings are typically caused not
by the length of the hearings-almost all are completed
within a day-but rather by scheduling difficulties. And
those agencies which take three months or more to hold
post-termination hearings have little incentive to decide
dismissal cases more promptly, since the employee has
already been discharged and he bears most of the costs
of delay. If the hearing were required before termination, agencies would have a far greater incentive to decide
24
2

Merrill 1056.

5 Recommendation

72-8, Adverse Actions Against Federal Employees, in 2 "Recommendations and Reports of the Administrative
Conference of the United States 73-75 (1972).

ARNET
134

v. KENNEDY

MARSAALL,

these cases expeditiously.26

J., dissenting
Finally, providing an eviden-

tiary hearing before the discharge might well obviate the
practical and constitutional need f r a full post-ternina-

tion proceeding. 7
The Government also argues that if a supervisor were
unable to effect an immediate removal of a troublesome
employee from his agency, the discipline and. efficiency
of the whole office might be disrupted. Under the prevailing practice, an agency may not dismiss an employee
until 30 days after he has received notice of the charges

against him and has had an opportunity to reply.

Thus,

fellow workers and supervisors must now function with
the threatened employee in their midst for at least a
month, and there seems little reason why a hearing could
not be held during that 30-day period.2"
If the

employee actually threatens to disrupt the operation of
the office, he could be put on administrative leave or
temporarily assigned to a less sensitive position pending

his hearing, as currently provided for by regulation.
5 CFR § 752.202 (d).
26 Merrill 1017, 1056-1057, 1060. Scheduling problems might be
largely overcome by more skillful use of personnel. See Goldberg v.
Kelly, 397 U. S., at 266.
27 As we observed, id., at 267 n. 14, due process does not, of course,
require two hearings. Under current procedures, an employee is
afforded one and sometimes two post-hoc evidentiary hearings (one
before the agency and the other before the Civil Service Commission). See Merrill 1013, 1043. If an adequate review mechanism is
maintained, a single pretermination hearing might obviate the need
for these later proceedings.
28 See, e. g., U. S. Dept. of Justice, Adverse Action Hearings, Appeals and Grievance Policies and Regulations, c. 2 (Sept. 28, 1972);
Recommendation 72-8, n. 25, supra, at B, 74. The notice requirement need not be any impediment to holding the hearing within
the 30-day period. In Goldberg v. Kelly, supra, at 268, for
example, the Court found a seven-day period between notice and
termination hearing constitutionally permissible.

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

416 U. S.

The only pretermination proceeding accorded appellee
was a "right of reply," see 5 CFR § 752.202 (b), but the
"right of reply" falls far short of being the meaningful
hearing which, in my view, is constitutionally required.
As the author of the Administrative Conference Report
cbserved:
"In most agencies ... an employee's right to reply
simply means that he may meet informally with a
representative of the agency and advance oral representations that he hope$ will sway the final decision.
He has no right at this stage to present witnesses or
to confront and cross-examine the agency's witnesses." 29 (Footnotes omitted.)
The agency official before whom the employee appears
need not be the decisionmaker; he need only be able to recommend a decision. Moreover, the hearing examiner or
the person responsible for the decision to discharge the employee may well be the complainant or his direct subordinate. In the case before us, for example, the decision as
to whether appellee should be discharged was made by
the OEO Regional Di,7ector whom appellee had accused
of misconduct. The Regional Director assembled the evidence against appellee, proposed the dismissal, then
decided it should be effected; he acted as complaining witness, prosecutor, and judge. The meaningless bureaucratic paper shuffling afforded appellee before his
discharge would surely not alone satisfy the stringent
demands of due process when such an important interest
is at stake.
The decisions of this Court compel the conclusion
that a worker with a claim of entitlement to public
employment absent specified cause has a property interest protected by the Due Process Clause and there29

Merrill 1033.

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

fore the right to an evidentiary hearing before an impartial decisionmaker prior to dismissal. Accordingly,
I would affirm the decision of the court below that
appellee had been discharged in violation of his procedural due process rights.
II
The court below also held that the provision of the
Lloyd-La Follette Act which authorizes dismissal of tenured Government employees for "such cause as will promote the efficiency of the service" is unconstitutionally
vague and overbroadY'
There is no dispute that the phrase " 'such cause as
will promote the efficiency of the service' as a standard of employee job protection is without doubt intended
to authorize dismissal for speech," ante, at 160. The majority finds this permissible because in Pickering v. Board
of Education, 391 U. S. 563, 568 (1968), we observed that
"the State has interests as an employer in regulating the
speech of its employees that differ significantly from
those it possesses in connection with the regulation of
the speech of the citizenry in general." But, the majority seems to have ignored the passage in Pickering
that directly precedes the quoted material:
" [T]o suggest that teachers may constitutionally be
compelled to relinquish the First Amendment rights.
30 Other cases in this area hardly provide substantial guidance
as to what speech is or is not protected. See, e. g., Pickering v.
Board of Education, 391 U. S. 563, 570 n. 3 (1968). Nor do the extant regulations provide substantial guidance; they merely repeat the
language of the statute and provide examples as unelucidating
as the particular regulation relevant to this case which 'pro-scribed "any action ... which might result in, or create the ap,
pearance of . .. (c) [i]mpeding Government efficiency or economy... [or] (f) [ailtecting adversely the confidence of the public in
the integrity of the Government." 5 CFR § 735.201a; see 45 CFR
§ 1015.735-1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

416 U. S.

they would otherwise enjoy as citizens to comment
on matters of public interest in connection with the
operation of the public schools in which they
work, . . . proceeds on a premise that has been un-

equivocally rejected in numerous prior decisions of
this Court. E. g., Wieman v. Updegraff, 344 U. S.
183 (1952); Shelton v. Tucker, 364 U. S. 479 (1960);
Keyishianv. Board of Regents, 385 U. S. 589 (1967)."
391 U. S., at 56S.
The importance of Government employees' being assured of theii right to freely comment on the conduct
of Government, to inform the public of abuses of power
and of the misconduct of their superiors, must be selfevident in these times. In Pickering, this Court specifically upheld the right of a public employee to criticize
the conduct of his superiors. Id., at 573-574. In
fact, it appears that one of the primary purposes of
the Lloyd-La Follette Act was to protect such criticism
from official retribution. Senator La Follette gave the
following example of an abuse sought to be cured by the
bill:
"The cause for [the employee's] dismissal was that
he gave publicity to the insanitary conditions existing in some part of the post-office building in Chicago where the clerks were required to perform their
services....

[H]e furnished some facts to the press of

Chicago, and the publication was made of the condiThe public
tions. They were simply horrible ....
health officers of Chicago, as soon as their attention
was called to the conditions, condemned the situation
as they found it; and yet this young man, one of
the brightest fellows I have met, was removed from
the service because, he had given publicity to these
outrageous conditions." 48 Cong. Rec. 1.0731 (1912).

ARNLTT v. KENNEDY
134

MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

The "efficiency of the service" standard would appear
to bring within its reach, as permissible grunds for
dismissal, even truthful criticism of an agency that in
any way tends to disrupt its operation.
One can be
sure, for example. that the young man's criticism in
Senator La Follette's example disrupted the operationi
of the Chicago Post Office.
it seems clear that the
standard could be construed to punish such protected
speech.
The majority purports to solve this potential overbreadth problem merely by announcing that the standard
in the Act "excludes protected speech." Nonetheless, it
leaves the statutory standard intact and offers no guidance other than general observation as to what conduct
is or is not punishable."
The Court's answer is no
answer at all. To accept this response is functionally to
eliminate overbreadth from the First Amendment lexicon.
No statute can reach and punish constitutionally pro-.
tected speech. The majority has not given the statute
a limiting construction but merely repeated the obvious.
The majority misunderstands the overbreadth principle which concerns the potential deterrent effect on
constitutionally protected speech of a statute that is
overbroad or vague on its face The focus of the doctrine
is not on the individual actor before the court but on others
who may forgo protected activity rather than run afoul
of the statute's proscriptions. Hence, the Court has reversed convictions where the subject speech could have
been punished under a. more narrowly drawn stalute
because the statute as drawn purported to cover, ind
31The

Administrative Conference Report reserved particularly
harsh criticism for the "efficiency of the service" standard, terming
it "deficient both as a guide to agency management and as a
warning to employees of the sorts of behavior that will get them
in trouble," warning that it is "an invitation to arbitrary action
by government agencies." Merrill 1054; see id.,
at 1053.

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

416 U. S.

might deter others from engaging in, protected speech.
The Court explained this vagueness-overbreadth relationship in Keyishian v. Board of Regents, 385 U. S., at 603604:
"We emphasize once again that '[p] recision of regulation must be the touchstone in an area so closely
touching our most precious freedoms,' N. A. A. C. P.
v.Button, 37.1 U. S.415, 438; '[f]or standards of permissible statutory vagueness are strict in the area
of free expression.

.

.

.

Because First Amend-

ment freedoms need breathing space to survive, government may regulate in the area only with narrow
specificity.'

Id., at 432-433.

. .

. When one must

guess what conduct or utterances may lose him his
position, one necessarily will 'steer far wider of the
unlawful zone .

513, 526.
ter ...

. . .'

Speiser v. Randall, 357 U. S.

For '[t]he threat ef sanctions may de-

almost as potently as the actual application

of sanctions.' N. A. A. C. P. v. Button, supra, at 433.
The danger of that chilling effect upon the exercise
of vital First Amendment rights must be guarded
against by sensitive tools which clearly inform [public employees] what is being proscribed."
By' the uncertainty of its scope, the standard here
creates the very danger of a chilling effect that concerned
the Court in Keyishian 2 "Employees are likely to limit
32'Further refinement of the statutory "efficiency of the service"
standard, is not, as the majority implies, impossible. The Administrative Conference points out that the agencies apd the Civil Service
Commission "have developed a large, still essentially secret body
of law on the meaning of 'efficiency.' " Merrill 1054. Reference
to this body of precedent might well serve as a basis for the amplification of the statutory standard. Relevant guidelines might, for
,example, distinguish between statements made in an official as
opposed' to a private capacity, see Pickering v. Board of Education,
391 U. S.563 (1968); between knowingly false statements and those

ARNETT v. KENNEDY
134

MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

their behavior to that which is unquestionably safe, for
"the threat of dismissal from public employment is ... a
potent means of inhibiting speech." Pickering,391 U S.,
at 574. The dismissal standard hangs over their heads
like a sword of Damocles, threatening them with dismissal for any speech that might impair the "efficiency
of the service." That this Court will ultimately vidicate an employee if his speech is constitutionally protected is of little consequence-for the value of a sword
of Damocles is that it hangs-not that it drops. For
every employee who risks his job by testing the limits
of the statute, many more will choose the cautious path
and not speak at all.
The District Court found that "[b]ecause employees
faced with the standard of 'such cause as will promote
the efficiency of the service' can only guess as to what
utterances may cost them their jobs, there can be little
question that they will be deterred from exercising their
First Amendment rights to the fullest extent." I agree
with that characterization of the effect of the standard
and would, therefore, uphold the conclusion of the
District Court that the statute is unconstitutionally
vague and overbroad.
I respectfully dissent.

which are reasonably believed to be true, see, e. g., Pickering, supra,
at 569; New York Times Co. v. Sullivan, 376 U. S. 254, 280 (1964);
cf. Garrison v. Louisiana, 379 U. S. 64 (1964); Rosenbloom v.
Metromedia, Inc., 403 U. S. 29 (1971); and between statements
which pertain to a legitimate subject of public comment and those
which disclose confidential Government information, see Pickering,
supra, at 570 n. 3 and 571-572; cf. Time, Inc. v. Hill, 385 U. S. 374
(1967).

