MARSHALL V. VICKSBURG.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

he executed in order to charge his estate. In the cases
in which equity has treated the obligation- as joint and
several, although in form joint, the surety participated in
the consideration. In this case Lafarge had no pecuniary
interest in the litigation which was enjoined, and derived no
personal benefit from the instrument of writing which he
signed, and, therefore, no good reason can be furnished why
his standing in a court of equity is not as favorable as if he
were surety, without advantage to himself, in the borrowing
of money. In neither case is there any obligation to pay
independent of the covenant. In the one there is a liability
for a debt; in the other, for a result in an action at law.
Both are cases of contract, for, indeed, suretyship can exist
in no other way; and we know of no principle of equity by
which a contract of indemnity is to be construed so as to
charge an estate, and an engagement to pay money to receive a contrary construction. The equities in both are
clearly equal, and as the estate of Lafarge is not liable at
law, it will not be held liable in equity.
The demurrer to the bill was, therefore, properly sustained, and the decree is accordingly
AFFIRMED.

MARSHALL V.

VICKSBURG.

1. A. filed a bill in equity to enforce a forfeiture, and obtain compensation
for breach of agreement. The defendant demurred by a single demurrer. The court sustained the demurrer as respected the forfeiture, and
overruled it as to the residue of the bill. The complainant amended
his bill in conformity to the opinion of the court. The defendant answered. Testimony was taken, and the complainant got a decree for so

much money; less, however, than he claimed.

He thereupon appealed

to this court. The defendant did not appeal. Hfeld, that though the
court below had erred in sustaining in part, and overruling in part a

demurrer which was single, yet that the complainant by amending his
bill, and the defendant by answering afterwards had both waived their
right to object anywhere: as the defendant specially had in this court
by not appealing; and that the question of forfeiture was withdrawn
from this court.

:Dec. 1872.]

MARSHALL V. VICKSBURG.

Opinion of the court.
2. A. leased a wharf from a city on the Mississippi before the rebellion for
a certain term, the city binding itself for indemnity if his "right to
collect wharfage was suspended for any period by the intervention of
third parties." Held, that the diminution of trade on the river caused by
the rebellion did not suspend his right to collect; and that he had no
claim for indemnity under his contract on account of such diminution.
3. The same lease providing "that in case the right to collect wharfage
or rents should be defeated permanently through the instrumentality or
with the aid of the mayor and council of the city," the property should
revert, Held, that the right was not defeated within the meaning of the
clause by an ordinance which the complainant had himself caused to be
passed; nor by a "tax "1 which the city had reserved a right to lay, as
distinguished from a wharfage charge; nor by quarantine embargo laid
with the complainant's consent.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of Mississippi, on a decree given by that court on a bill filed
by Charles Marshall against the city of Vicksburg. The
facts of the case can be gathered from different parts of the
opinion given below.

MHessrs. P. Phillips and 1. X. Corwine, for the appellant;
Messrs. .. 3. Carlie and .".D. M cPherson, contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 21st of November, 1851, the parties mutually executed an indenture, whereby Marshall conveyed to the city
certain real estate therein described, and the city released to
him certain other real estate also therein described. The
premises conveyed to the city, embraced the city landing for
steamers and other water-craft on the Mississippi River. It
was stipulated that Mlarshall should receive all the wharfages
and rents accruing from the premises conveyed by him from
the date of the instrument, and for the term of ten years, to
commence three months after the removal of a wharf-boat
known as the "Governor Jones."
The wharrages collected from steamers were to be according to the rates specified in a lease from Marshall to Thomas
Porterfield, and those from all other water-craft were to be
such as should be fixed by the mayor and council of the city.
The latter were not to be less than was then customary.

148

MARSHALL V. VICKSBURG.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The city reserved the right to levy such tax on goods,
wares, and merchandise coming to the landing as the mayor
and council might deem proper. The indenture contained
also the following clauses, which lie at the foundation of this
litigation, and must control the rights of the parties:
"It is expressly agreed by the parties hereto, that if the right
to collect wharfage be suspendedfor any period by the intervention
of third parties, the time of such suspension shall be added to
the said term of ten years, it being the intention of these parties
that the said Marshall, his representatives, and assigns, shall
actually receive the rents and wharfages accruing in ten years
altogether, and no more.
"And in case the right to collect wharfage or rents shall be
interrupted or defeated permanently, through the instrumentality
or with the aid of the said mayor and council of the city of
Vicksburg, all the property above conveyed by said Marshall
and wife, shall immediately revert to him, his heirs, and assigns,
and be as fully and absolutely his as if this deed bad never been
executed."
As filed, the bill asked for an enforcement of the forfeiture
provided for. It alleges that the enjoyment of Marshall's
wharf rights were interrupted by quarantines established by
the city in the years 1853, 1854, 1855, and 1858, which subsisted for periods, amounting in the aggregate to about ten
months, and claims that his term of ten years should be
elongated to that extent. It claims also under these clauses
compensation for the interruption of the navigation of the
river to his injury by the civil war, and for several alleged
breaches by the city of the agreement.
The city demurred. The court sustained the demurrer so
far as it related to the forfeiture, and overruled it as to the
residue of the bill. The complainant amended the bill in
conformity to the opinion of the court. The defendant answered, and testimony was taken on both sides. The court
decreed in favor of the complainant for the sum of $7600.67.
The complainant thereupon appealed to this court. No appeal was taken by the city.

Dec. 1872.]

MARSHALL V.

VICKSBURG.

Opinion of the court.

The court was right in the view which it took of the prayer
for a decree of forfeiture. Equity never, under any circumstances, lends its aid to enforce a forfeiture or penalty, or
anything in the nature of either.* Nevertheless it was an
error to sustain the demnurrer in part. That cannot be done.
Where there is a single demurrer, it must be wholly sustained
or overruled.t But the defendant not having appealed, is
foreclosed from making the objection, and indeed it was
conclusively waived by both parties; by the complainant,
by the amendment which he made to his bill; and by the
defendant, by answering. The question of forfeiture is therefore withdrawn from the case.
The first of the clauses relates to the acts of third persons.
Under this clause, the only claim asserted is one growing
out of the diminution of wharf charges accruing to Marshall
by reason of the war. The language of the clause is, "if
the right to collect wharfage is suspended for any period,"
&c. He was allowed to collect the wharfages as long as he
claimed the right to do so; and then voluntarily delivered
up the possession of the landing according to an understanding between him and the city authorities. This is proved by
the testimony of Lindsay and Auter.1
Auter, who called upon him as chairman of the landing
committee of the city council, says:
"He told me that his term bad expired, and that he had no
more to do with the landing." 1"He surrendered the landing to
me as chairman of the landing committee." "Mr. Marshall
told me the city had imposed a hospital tax from flat-boats,
amounting to about $1800. This he claimed rightfully belonged
to him, and this was all he did claim."
Lindsay was the mayor.

He says:

"MIarshall made the surrender in writing." "I took the floor
at a meeting of the council, and stated to the board, that in all
the controversies I had held with Mr. Marshall, he had said he
* Livingston v. Tompkins, 4 Johnson's Chancery, 415; 2 Story's Equity,
1319.
R
Record, pp. 115, 125.
t Daniels's Chancery Practice, 583, 584.

150

MARSHALL v. VICKSBURG.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

would, at the end of three months' extension (making the contract ten years and three months), make a peaceable and quiet
surrender to the city, which he did do."
The breaking out of the war in 1861, necessarily interrupted the navigation of the Mississippi from the States not
in rebellion. But the complainant's right to collect was in
no wile suspended. He suffered from the war as others did,
but his contract secured him no indemnity and a court of
equity can give him none.
The second clause relates to the acts of the city. It declares that "in case the right to collect wharfage or rents'be
interrupted or defeated permanently," &c. Under this clause
three claims have been pressed upon our attention.
It was insisted that the city, by her ordinance of February
7, 1852, reduced the wharfage for steamers from $5 per trip
to $5 per week, in violation of the contract with the complainant, and largely to his injury. This is a grave imputation, and if established, would certainly entitle him to compensation. But the evidence shows that he drew up the
ordinance himself, urged its adoption upon the council, that
the city had no interest in the matter, and that the council
passed it only by reason of his urgency, and because he
thought the change would be beneficial to him.* Volentinon

fit iidj ria.
It is alleged that under the ordinance of June 7, 1852, the
city made a wharfage charge of $1 each upon all water-crafts
other than steamers, touching at the landing. Upon looking
into the ordinance we find it too clear to admit of doubt or
require discussion that this charge was a tax, such as the city
had reserved the right to impose, and not a wharfage charge
falling within the category of those which belonged to the
complainant. At the same time that this tax was exacted
Marshall was collecting an additional $2 from each of the
vessels upon which it was imposed. With this the city in
no wise interfered, and there is no complaint on that subject.
Lastly, it is claimed that the complainant is entitled to the
* See the testimony of Donovan, Record, p. 150; and of Arthur, p. 139.

Dec. 1872.]

SHUTTE v. THOMiPSON.
Syllabus.

income which he would have received during the extension
of his term of ten years, if it had been extended at its close
for the length of time the quarantines subsisted. The quarantines affected only boats coming up the river, and only such
of those as had cases of fever on board. The quarantines
were established with the consent of the complainant. He
admits this, but says, that although he then made no such
claim, he expected his terh to be extended accordingly. He
knew all about the quarantines when the extension which he
asked for was conceded to him, and when he yielded up the
po§session, saying, he was done with the landing, and claimed
only the proceeds of the tax of $1, which we have already
considered. His right to collect wharfages was neither "interrupted or defeated permanently," nor indeed gainsaid or
questioned by the city.
The claim is neither within the letter, meaning, nor equity
of the contract and must be denied. It appears that Marshall
made two loans from the city to remove incumbrances-one
of $1000. The amount of the other is not shown. Neither
of these loans has been repaid. There is no report of a
master in the record. The decree is very brief. The record
furnishes no means of ascertaining the ground upon which
the court proceeded, in coming to the conclusion that the
complainant was entitled to the sum decreed in his favor.
After a careful examination of the case we have found no
error against the appellant.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

SHUTTE

v. THiMPSON.

1. Although the formalities prescribed by the 30th section of the act of
Congress of September 2d, 1789 (1 Stat. at Large, 88), authrizing the
taking of depositions de bene esse in certain cases and stating the circum-

stances under which, and the mode in which they may be taken, must
be strictly observed (the act itself being in derogation of the common
law), yet a party may waive any provisions -intended for his benefit.
And in regard to this statute he will be held to have waived them if he

