PICKERSGILL V. LAHENS.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

bers of the church, nor whether the excommunicated have
been regularly or irregularly cut off. We must take the
fact of excommunication as conclusive proof that the persons
•.exscinded are not members. But we may inquire whether
the resolution of expulsion was the act of the church, or of
persons who were not the church and who consequently had
no right to excommunicate others. And, thus inquiring,
we hold that the action of the small minority, on the 7th
and 10th of June, 1867, by which the old trustees were
attempted to be removed, and by which a large number of
the church members were attempted to be exseinded, was
not the action' of the church, ard that it was wholly inoperative. In a congregational church, the majority, if they adhere to the organization and to the doctrines, represent the
church. An expulsion of the majority by a minority is a
void act. We need not, however, dwell upon this. Certain
it is, that trustees are not necessarily communing members
of the church. Excommunication from communing membership does not disqualify them, even if the excision be
regular. Still more certain is it that they cannot be removed
from their trusteeship by a minority of the church society
or meeting, without warninig, and acting without charges,
without citation or trial, and in direct contravention of the
church rules.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

PICKERSGILL v.

LAHENS.

A general statute enacted that a party might stay by injunction proceedings
in a suit at law on executing a bond, "with one or more sufficient sureties," conditioned, &c. A., a defendant in a case at law, being about
to apply for an injunction to stay that suit, did accordingly execute a
joint bond with B. as co-obligor; B. having no interest in the suit,
nor deriving any benefit from the execution of the bond. Held, that
there was nothing in the language of the statute which compelled the

bond to be joint merely, instead of joint and several; and that being in

Dec. 1872.]

PICKERSGILL V. LAHENS.
Statement of the case.

terms joint merely, and B. being in fact but a surety, there was no right
in the obligee (A. being insolvent) to pursue B.'s estate in equity; B.
having died before A., and B.'s estate being so discharged at law.

from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of New York; the case being this:
A statute of the State of New York thus enacts:
APPEAL

"No injunction shall be issued to stay the trial of any personal action at issue in any court of law until the party applying therefor shall execute a bond, with one or more sufficient
sureties, to the plaintiff in such action at law, in such sum as
the chancellor or master allowing the injunction shall direct,
conditioned for the payment to the said plaintiff, and his legal
representatives, of all moneys which may be recovered by such
plaintiff or his legal representatives, ... in such action at law,
for debt or damage, and for costs therein."
With this statute in force, Pickersgill sued Lahens at law
in the Superior Court of New York, a common law court
on certain indorsements. Thereupon Lahens filed a bill in
the Court of Chancery of the State, for relief against the indorsements; and having done so, applied, under the abovequoted act, for an injunction to stay the trial at law. The
court upon the filling of a bond meant to be such as the
above-quoted act required, granted a temporary injunctioii
staying the suit at law till an answer to the bill in chancery
should come in. The bond was the joint,bond (not the joint
and several bond) of Lahens and one Lafarge; this Lafarge not having been any party to the suits already mentioned, nor interested in them, and not deriving any benefit
from his joining in the bond. The bond recited the action
at law against Lahens, the bill and injunction in chancery,
and the condition of the instrument was that the obligors
should pay all moneys which should be recovered in the suit
at law. Answers to the bill for relief having come in, the,
action at law proceeded, and a judgment was rendered
against Lahens for $129,000. Before this time Lafarge had
died; and at the time Lahens had become insolvent. Thereupon Pickersgill filed a bill in equity against the executors

142

PICKERSGILL V. LAHENS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the obligee.

of Lafarge, to have his estate pay the amount of the bond,
with interest from the recovery of the judgment against
Lahens. The executors demurred; assigning among other
grounds of demurrer that it appeared by the bill that LaLarge was not severally bound by the bond, but only jointly
bound with Lahens; that Lafarge received no consideration
for becoming an obligor; that he was not interested in any
of the matters in consequence whereof the bond was given,
and was merely a surety therein, and that he departed this
life before the filing of the present bill, leaving Lahens sur-.
viving him, who was still alive. The court below sustained
the demurrer; acting doubtless on the ancient principle of
equity, announced with a clear mention of its grounds by
GRIER, J., for this -court, in the United States v. Price,* that
after the death of one joint obligor (the other surviving) the
estate of the one deceased cannot be pursued in equity unless
there was "some moral obligation antecedent to the bond ;"
the which obligation the court declared could not exist where
the deceased obligor had been but a surety. To review
the action of the court in sustaining the demurrer this appeal was taken.
Mr. TV. TV. McFarland,for the appellant:
If the fact that Lafarge is not shown to have had any direct pecuniary interest in the subject-matter of the action at
law, or to have derived any personal benefit from the giving
of the bond in question, is sufficient to bring the case within
the decision made in the United States v. Price,the demurrer
must be sustained. But we contend that in legal intendment both the obligors are to be regarded as principals, so
far as the rights of the plaintiffs are concerned. In the case
of statutory obligations of this character, it is the intention
of the statute and not the intention of the party, that ought
to control. The statute requires the bond to be given for
the protection and indemnity of the parties, against whom
9 Howard, 90; S. C., on the circuit, under the name of United States v.
Archer's Executors, 1 Wallace, Jr., 173.

Dec. 1872.]

PICKERSGILL V. LAHENS.

Opinion of the court.

the relief is sought, and whose rights are imperilled by its
being granted, and it requires that sureties shall be given
for the better security of the plaintiff. It is not a question
of contract. The plaintiff has no election to accept or refuse to accept the bond. The only right he has in the premises, is to require that the sureties shall justify as required
by the statute. The plaintiff had no right to say that the
bond should be a joint and several obligation, nor had the
court the right to say so. The language of the statute is,
that "the party applying therefor shall execute a bond with
one or more sufficient sureties." When the statute requires
a bond to be given, and does not employ words of severalty,
the fair if not the necessary intendment is that a joint obligation in form is intended; but it does not follow in such
case that the statute intends or contemplates that the accident of the death of the sureties shall deprive the obligees
of the security which the bond was intended to afford.
The intention of the statute doubtless here was, that the
property of the principal and of the surety should stand
charged with the liability assumed in favor of the plaintiffs,
and we think that so the statute should be construed.
Mir. .F. Kernan, contra', with whonm were Mr. T.J. Glover, for
the executors of Lafarge, and Mr. . H. Dykers,for Lahens.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
It is very clear that the estate of Lafarge is discharged at
law from the payment of the obligation in controversy, on
the familiar principle that if one of two joint obligors die
the debt is extinguished against his representative, and the
surviving obligor is alone chargeable. It is equally clear
that in this class of cases, where the remedy at law is gone,
as a general rule a court of equity will not afford relief, for
it is not a principle of equity that every joint covenant shall
be treated as if it were joint and several. The court will
not vary the legal effect of the instrument by making it
several as well as joint, unless it can see, eith*er by independent testimony or from the utture of the transaction itself,

PICIKERSGILL v. LAHENS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

that the parties concerned intended to create a separate as
well as joint, liability. If through fraud, ignorance, or mistake, the joint obligation does not express the meaning of
the parties, it will be reformed so as to conform to it. This
has been done where there is a previous equity which gives
the obligee the right to a several indemnity from each of
the obligors, as in the case of money lent to both of them.
There a court of equity will enforce the obligation against
the representatives of the deceased obligor, although the
bond be joint and not several, on the ground that the lending to both creates a moral obligation in both to pay, and
that the reasonable presumption is the parties intended their
contract to be joint and several, but through fraud, ignorance, mistake, or want of skill, failed to accomplish their
object. This presumption is never indulged in the case of
a mere surety, whose duty is measured alone by the legal
force of the bond, and who is under no moral obligation
whatever to pay the obligee, independent of his covenant,
and consequently there is nothing on which to found an
equity for the interposition of a court of chancery. If the
surety should die before his principal, his representatives
cannot be sued at law; nor will they be charged in equity.
These general doctrines on this subject were presented at
large in this court in the case of the United States v. Price,
and they are sustained by the text writers and books of reports in this country and England.*
The authority of the decisions on this subject we do not
* Story's Equity Jurisprudence,
162, 163,164; Simpson v. Field, 2 Chancery Cases, 22; Sumner v. Powell, 2 Merivale, 30; S. C., on appeal, 1 Turner & Russell, 423; Weaver v. Shyrock, 6 Sergeant & Rawle, 262; Hunt v.
Rousmanier, per Marshall, C.J., 8 Wheaton, 212, 213; S. C., 1 Peters, 16:
Pecker v. Julius, 2 P. A. Brown, 33, 34; Harrison v. Minge, 2 Washington,
136; Kennedy v. Carpenter, 2 Wharton, 361; Other v. Iveson, 3 Drewry,
177; Jones v. Beach, 2 De Gex, McNaughton & Gordon, 886; Wilmer v.
Ourrey, 2 De Gex & Smales, 347; Waters v. Riley, 2 Harris & Gill, 311;
Dorsey v. Dorsey's Exrs., 2 Harris & Johnson, 480, note; Bradley v. Burwell, 3 Denio, 65; Mr. Cooper's Note to Justinian's Institutes, p. 462, and
cases there cited; .Richardson v. Horton, 6 Beavan, 185; Wilkinson v. Henderson, 1 Mylne & Keane, 582; Rawstone v. Parr, 3 Russell, 539.

Dec. 1872.]

PIOKERSGILL v. LAHENS.
Opinion of the court.

understand the appellant as questioning in a proper case;
but he insists they are not applicable here.
His position is, that a statutory obligation like the bond
in question is different in principle, and should be interpreted differently from a contract made by private parties
between themselves, as the obligees in such a bond cannot
direct the form it shall take, nor elect whether to accept or
refuse it. The bond, which is the foundation of this suit,
was given in 1846, under the order of the Court of Chancery of New York, to stay the proceedings in an action at
law then pending in the Superior Court of the city, and it
is argued, as the statute does not require bonds of this character to be "joint and several," in legal intendment they
must be joint in form, and all the obligors, therefore, should
be regarded as principals. It is undoubtedly true, as words
of severalty are not employed, that a joint bond is a compliance with the law, but it by no means follows that a joint and
several obligation is not an equal compliance with its terms.
It is certainly not forbidden, and as the statute is silent on
the subject the fair intendment is that either was authorized, and that the court had the right to direct which should
be given. If this be so, then it cannot properly be said that
the party enjoined had no voice in the nature or sufficiency
of the security to be taken, for the discretion of the chancellor was, necessarily, to be exercised in relation to both
these matters, if his attention was directed to them, after
both sides were heard. It is quite apparent, if this discretion had been invoked, that the instrument of security might
have been different; and equally apparent that Lafarge, in
case this had been done, might have been unwilling to assume the additional risks which a separate liability imposed
on him. We must suppose, in the absence of any evidence
on the subject, that he knew the legal diffb'ences between
the diffbrent kinds of obligations, and became bound in the
way he did because a joint liability was more advantageous
to him. If this was his intention, it would be manifestly
unjust for a court of equity, after the legal status was fixed
by his death, to change the nature of the obligation which
VOL. XV.

10

MARSHALL V. VICKSBURG.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

he executed in order to charge his estate. In the cases
in which equity has treated the obligation- as joint and
several, although in form joint, the surety participated in
the consideration. In this case Lafarge had no pecuniary
interest in the litigation which was enjoined, and derived no
personal benefit from the instrument of writing which he
signed, and, therefore, no good reason can be furnished why
his standing in a court of equity is not as favorable as if he
were surety, without advantage to himself, in the borrowing
of money. In neither case is there any obligation to pay
independent of the covenant. In the one there is a liability
for a debt; in the other, for a result in an action at law.
Both are cases of contract, for, indeed, suretyship can exist
in no other way; and we know of no principle of equity by
which a contract of indemnity is to be construed so as to
charge an estate, and an engagement to pay money to receive a contrary construction. The equities in both are
clearly equal, and as the estate of Lafarge is not liable at
law, it will not be held liable in equity.
The demurrer to the bill was, therefore, properly sustained, and the decree is accordingly
AFFIRMED.

MARSHALL V.

VICKSBURG.

1. A. filed a bill in equity to enforce a forfeiture, and obtain compensation
for breach of agreement. The defendant demurred by a single demurrer. The court sustained the demurrer as respected the forfeiture, and
overruled it as to the residue of the bill. The complainant amended
his bill in conformity to the opinion of the court. The defendant answered. Testimony was taken, and the complainant got a decree for so

much money; less, however, than he claimed.

He thereupon appealed

to this court. The defendant did not appeal. Hfeld, that though the
court below had erred in sustaining in part, and overruling in part a

demurrer which was single, yet that the complainant by amending his
bill, and the defendant by answering afterwards had both waived their
right to object anywhere: as the defendant specially had in this court
by not appealing; and that the question of forfeiture was withdrawn
from this court.

