NEW

ORLEANS

v.

GAINES.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

here in question, are clearly within that category, and are,
therefore, void. The jurisdictional prohibition which they
contain with respect to the courts of the State, can, therefore, form no impediment to the plaintiff in error in the enforcement of his rights touching this judgment, as those
rights are recognized by this court.*
TnE JUDGMENT IS REVERSED, and the cause will be re-

manded to the Supreme Court of Georgia with directions to
enter a judgment of reversal, to reverse the judgment of
the Superior Court of Randolph County, and thereafter to
proceed

'IN

ONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.

NEW ORLEANS V. GAINES.
1. Where a master, on reference, has followed the order of the judgment
and enforced its directions, no objection can be taken, on appeal, to what
he has done when the appeal arises upon exceptions to his report, and
not on objection to the original judgment under which the reference to
him was made.
2. Though by the law of Louisiana a defendant, ordered by judicial decree
to restore possession of real estate which it has been adjudged that he
has held, nalafide, during his whole term of possession, have a right,
if the party recovering as true owner desire to retain improvements
which the possessor, innalifide, has put on them, to d.'mand the value of
the materials and price of workmanship of such improvements; yet
where, in a peculiar and complicated case, in which specific amounts and
estimates were not possible to be made, and the case had to be adjusted
largely on a system of equitable compensations, if the party finally dispossessed have, by the decree, received in fact and good conscience the
value of his improvements, the court will not allow him to call for another and more specific payment.
3. The possessor, in continuous bad faith, of real estate which the true owner
at last recovers, is chargeable, under the claim of mesne profits, with
what the premises are reasonably worth annually, and interest thereon
* White v. Hart, 13 Wallace, 646; Von Hoffman v. The City of Quincy,
4 Id. 535.

Dec. 1872.]

NEw ORLFANS V. GAINES.
Statement of the case.

to the time of the trial. An allowance of five per cent. interest in a
Louisiana case held to have been proper.
4. On a claim for mesne profits by a true owner against a possessor in continuous bad faith, there is nothing in the Civil Code of Louisiana which
limits the claim to profits for three years. On the contrary, the rule of
English equity there prevails, and a decree is properly made of profits
from the time that the complainant's title accrued. In the present case
the profits of fifteen years were given, with interest on them at five
per cent.
APPEAL flom a decree of the Circuit Court for the District
of Louisiana; the case being thus:
In the year 1856 Mrs. Myra Clark Gaines filed a bill in
the court below against the city of New Orleans, in which
she sought to recover valuable real estate in New Orleans
owned by one Daniel Clark, including a certain block or
square described, on which a draining-house and out-buildings, with a draining-machine for draining the city, was now
and had been for many years situated.
The bill alleged that she was the only and legitimate child
of Clark; that Clark had left a valid will, imade in 1813, by
which he devised all his estate to her; that this will having
been lost or destroyed, and she a minor till 1827 and ignorant of her parentage and rights, a provisional will, dated in
1811, of which Richard Relf and Beverly Chew were executors, and Clark's mother, Mary Clark, was universal legatee,
was admitted to probate and ordered to be executed; that
the will of 1813, which revoked the will of' 1811, was subsequently found, and, in 1856, established; that Relf and Chew,
under pretended authority as executors of Clark and as attorneys in fact of his mother, had, in 1821, without right or
authority, and in bad faith, sold this lot ard others at public
auction to one Evariste Blanc; that Blanc, equally without
right or authority, and in bad faith, had sold it and others,
by act of sale, on the 26th of September, 1834, to the city
of New Orleans; that the city had notice of the fraudulent
character of the proceedings of Relf Ind Chew, &c., and of
the worthlessness of the title, &c., which they acquired. The
bill prayed a delivery of the property and an account of the
rents and profits.
vOL. xv.

40

NEW ORLEANS V. GAINES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

After a long and expensive litigation, including an appeal
to this court, Mrs. Gaines succeeded in her case,* and in
pursuance of a mandate from this court, the court below, in
June, 1870, entered a decree in her favor; decreeing that
she was Clark's only legitimate child, and as his universal
legatee was entitled to the lots in question ; that the sale by
Relf and Chew and that also by Evariste Blanc was wholly
unauthorized and illegal, and utterly null and void; and
that the city of New Orleans at the time it purchased the
property was bound to take notice of the circumstances
which rendered the actings and doings of Chew and Relf in
the premises utterly null and void, and "ought to be deemed
and held, and was thereby deemed and held, to have purchased the property in question with full notice that the sale
at auction, under the pretended authority of the said Richard
iRelf and Beverly Chew, and the said act of sale to the said
Evariste Blanc were unauthorized, illegal, null, and void,
and in derogation and fraud of the persons entitled to the
succession of Daniel Clark. The court further decreed that
Mrs. Gaines, as Clark's only and legitimate child and universal legatee, was entitled to the property with all the
yearly rents and profits accruing from it since it came into
possession of the city, on the 26th of September, 1834, and
decreeing an account accordingly, referred it to the master
to take the same.
The master reported that the city had never rented the
lot on which the draining-house and machinery was built,
nor received from it any rents or profits except by an increase of the city revenue, brought about by the fact that
the draining-machine had drained a large part of the city,
and by making it of use had largely augmented the property
in the city that was taxed. While, therefore, he "found it
difficult to fix the amount of rents and profits for which the
city was liable on this lot," he presented certain facts and
figures from which the court could reach an equitable result.
These were thus: The city, it was estimated, had received
* See Gaines v. New Orleans, 6 Wallace, 642.

Dec. 1872.]

DTEW ORLEANS v.

GAINES.

Statement of the case.

from increased taxation of other property, during the term
embraced by the order (including interest), $208,825.
Now, this particular lot of land, it was testified, was originally worth $200. The buildings erected by the city, independent of the machinery, cost $18,000. The putting up of
the machinery was finished July 1st, 1835 or 1836 (some
witnesses testifying to the one year and some to the other),
and it was testified that a fair rental of the land and building was $2400 a year. The expense of repairs was $500.
The master, accordingly-disallowing to the city the benefit of the "prescription of three years," which it set up
against the claim for rents-charged the city on this basis:
Rental value from July 1st, 1835, to November 1st, 1870,
..
Interest on the rents, at five per cent.,
And allowed the city:
Expenses of repairs,.
Interest on repairs,

..

$84,800 00
72,800 00
-$157,600
$17,166 66
15,166 55
_-

And thus made the city chargeable with
the difference,.
.$125,266

00

32,333 21

79

On exceptions to his report, one of them was that as the
draining-machine and buildings necessary therefor were
made and erected by the city, with materials belonging to
it, the only right of Mrs. Gaines as to them was, either to
keep the same and reimburse to the city their value and the
price of workmanship, or to require the city to take away
or demolish them; that the obligation, under the law of
Louisiana, rested upon Mrs. Gaines to elct which she would
do; and that the city had demanded of her, through the
master, that she should make such election, and that the
master refused to direct or require her so to do, and thus
denied the city its rights under the law.
The master to this reported that the city, by its counsel,
had cited Article 500 of the Civil Code of Louisiana before
him, and stated that it would call upon the complainant
(then present) to elect whether she would keep said works
and improvements placed upon the land by the city or pay

INEW ORLEANS V. GAINES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the city.

the city for the same; and the master added that be had "regarded this as a mere notice.of what the defendant intended
to do at some future time, but as the point was not presented
in writing nor subsequently alluded to, he bad assumed that
it had been abandoned."
In this state of thiings, and after the disallowance of some
other exceptions, the report came before the Circuit Court
(BRADLEY, J.).
After examining those exceptions the
learned justice came to the main matter, the allowance of
the $125,266.79. On that subject he said:
"The case of the city is a peculiar one. The estimation of
the rents and profits in that case is so uncertain and speculative
that I do not feel entirely satisfied as to the decision that should
be made. The master evidently felt the same embarrassment."
And after referring to the different estimates made by the
master, and specially to the one above given on p. 627, the
learned justice said:
"As the master has not signified his adoption of either of
these estimates, but has stated the facts to the court for its
equitable determination, I have come to the conclusion that it
would be equitable and just to set off the profits derived by the
city from the drainage-machine for the past thirty-five years
against the cost of constructions and repairs, and to charge the
city with the rents of the building and land, less the ordinary
repairs of the buildings, amounting, as shown by the report, to
the sum of $125,266.79. Whilst the profits and advantages of
the drainage-machine were indefinite and uncertain in amount,
there is no doubt of their reality, nor, if we can place any reliance upon the estimates, is there any doubt of their being amply
sufficient to reimburse the city for all its expenditures, including
even the rent with which it is charged."
The learned justice of the Circuit Court accordingly ordered a confirmation of the report. From that decree this
appeal came.
Messrs. Miles Taylor and ,. McConnell, for the appellant
(suggesting that whereas the draining-machine was finished
July 1,st, in 1836, and that alone gave the land a value for

Dec. 1872.]

NEW ORLEANS V.

GAINES.

Opinion of the court.

rent, a charge for one year too much had in any view, been
made), insisted upon certain exceptions, as follows:
1st. That the decree was erroneous in that it had the
effect of giving to the complainant the buildings and machinery erected by the city, with the materials and at the
expense of the city, without paying the value of the materials and the cost of the workmanship, or any other price
whatever.
2d. That the sum of the rents and profits above stated
was made up in part by the allowance of interest, at the
rate of five per cent. per annum, on each year's rent, from
the end of the year. This, it was argued, was in violation
of the 'doctrines of the code of Louisiana of 1825, as shown
in its articles 1939 and 1905.
3d. That the refusal to allow the plea of prescription in
bar of all rents or profits for the use of the square, which
were received by the city more than three years anterior to
the institution of the suit on the 26th of December, 1856,
was an error.
.1llessrs. J. .En6ttand . Q. A. Fellowes, contra.
Mr. Justice IHUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The appeal before the court arises upon exceptions to the
master's report only, and not to the original judgment.
1. It is only where the master or the judge, in acting
upon his report, has departed from the order of the judgment or has omitted to enforce its provisions, that a just
objection can arise. The judgment hag decided that the
plaintiff was the owner of this property in question in 1834,
when the defendant entered into its possession; that then
and at all times since the defendant has illegally kept the
plaintiff out of its possession, and has itself been in its possession during the same period, and that it obtained and
during all this time held such possession wrongfully and in
bad faith.
This statement furnishes an answer to the suggestion that
the rents and profits were allowed for one year, during

630

N'EW ORLEANS V. GAINES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court..

which the city was not in possession. This is not an open
question. It is settled by the judgment, and the allowance
is in accordance with the decision.
It is also decided, "that the city of iNew Orleans ought to
be deemed and held, and is hereby deemed and held, to
have purchased the property in question with full notice
that the said sale at auction, under the pretended authority
of the said Richard Relf and Beverly Chew, and the said act
of sale to the said Evariste Blanc, were unauthorized, illegal,
null, and void, and in derogation and fraud of the rights of
the person or persons entitled to the succession of the said
Daniel Clark." This sale to Evariste Blanc was the source
from which the city derived its title to the property in question. During the whole time of its holding, the city was a
possessor in bad faith of the property of the plaintiff. The
Civil Code of Louisiana declares as follows:
"ARTicLE 3414. The possessor in good faith is he who has just
reason to believe himself the master of the thing which he possesses, although he may not be in fact, as happens to him who
buys a thing which he supposes to belong to the person selling
it to him, but which in fact belongs to another.
"1ARTICLE 3415. The possessor in bad faith is he who possesses as master, but who assumes this quality, when he well
knows that he has no title to the thing, or that his title is vicious
and defective."
By the same code a possessor in good faith may enjoy the
fruits of the property until it is claimed by the owner, and
is bound to account only from the time of a demand for restitution. He is also entitled, when evicted, to be reimbursed for the expenses he may have incurred on it. (Article 3416.)
To the same purport are Articles 500 and 501.
"1Whenplantations, constructions, and works have been made
by a third person, and with such person's own materials, the
owner of the soil has a right to keep them, or compel this third
person to take away or demolish the same. If the owner requires the demolition of such works they shall be demolished
at the expense of the person who erected them without any

Dec. 1872.]

lEw ORLEANS V. GAINES.

-

631

Opinion of the court.

compensation; such person may even be sentenced to pay damages, if the case require it, for the prejudice which the owner
of the soil may have sustained. If the owner keeps the works,
he owes to the owner of the materials nothing but the reimbursement of their value and of the price of workmanship,
without any regard to the greater or less value which the soil
may have acquired thereby.
"1Nevertheless, if the plantations, edifices, or works have been
done by a third person evicted, but not sentenced to make restitution of the fruits because such person possessed bond fide,
the owner shall not have a right to demand the demolition of
the works, plantation, or edifices, but he.shall have his choice
either to reimburse the value of the materials and the price of
the workmanship, or to reimburse a sum equal to the enhanced
value of the soil."
The case of the present defendant is an instance where
the works were done, not by one uot sentenced to make restitution because such person possessed bond fide, but by one
who was sentenced to make restitution, and who was expressly adjudged to possess mua fide.
Mrs. Gaines, therefore, had the right to keep the improvements upon reimbursing their value and the price of the
workmanship, or to compel the city to demolish and remove
them. She has not been called upon legally to elect which
course she would adopt. On the hearing an oral notice was
given that she would be called upon to elect, which the
master understood to be in the future, and not a present
notice. The matter was never again presented, and the
master considered the subject as abandoned. She may now
properly rest upon her right to have the works demolished
and removed. This would give the city the value of the
materials only as taken down at its own expense and when
separated from their position upon the land. This allowance has, however, already been made to the city. In the
opinion of the judge at the circuit he uses this language:
"I have come to the conclusion that it would be equitable
and just to set off the profits derived by the city from the
drainage-machine for the past thirty-five years against the
cost of construction and repairs. .

.

. Whilst the profits

632

NEW ORLEANS V. GAINES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and advantages (he says) of the drainage-machine are uncertain and indefinite in amount, there is no doubt of their
reality, nor, if we can place any reliance upon the estimates,
is there any doubt of their being amply sufficient to reimburse the city for all its expenditures, including even the
rent with which it is charged."
It is evident from this statement that there has been
already allowed to the city a sum not only equal to the value
of the materials of the improvements, if they were demolished, but of their actual cost. The city has, therefore, no
cause of complaint on this score, and the point under consid~ration must be held against it.
2. The question of the allowance of interest on the items
of rent was not made before the master or before the judge
at the circuit, and is not properly before us. Interest was
allowed at the rate of five per cent., the rate fixed by the
Code of Louisiana. In Vandevoort v. Gould,* it was adjudged that mesne profits consist of what the premises are
reasonably worth annually, with the interest to the time of
the trial. "Less than this," it is said, " would not give the
plaintiff full and complete indemnity for the injury to his
rights." Such is also the express declaration of Article
1939 of the Civil Code of Louisiana.
The Articles of the Code, 1939 and 1905, are not, as it is
urged, in hostility to this principle. The latter by its terms
relates to contracts. By the former, liens which are due for
the restitution of profits bear interest from the day the
debtor was in default. By the judgment it is found that
the city held this property wrongfully from the outset, and
thus (which is the only sense in which the word can here be
used) was in default continually.
The remaining question to be considered is upon the allowance of the plea of prescription. It is alleged as error that
the plea of prescription was not allowed in bar of the claim
* 86 New York, 639, 647.

Dec. 1872.]

NEW ORLEANS V. "GAINES.
Opinion of the court.

for all the rents and profits which bad accrued more than
three years prior to the commencement of the action. The
Civil Code enumerates as causes of action which are the
subject of the prescription of three years-" the action for
arrearages of rent charge, annuities, and alimony, or of the
hire of mqvables or immovables." (Article 3503.) "In general all personal actions except those above enumerated are
prescribed by ten years, if the creditor be present, and by
twenty years if he be absent." (Article 8508.)
These articles do not govern the present case. They prescribe actions which the party had the legal right to bring.
They do not apply to rights like the present, which result
from~i the determination of another action. Until the decree
in the main suit there was here no existing cause of action
to recover the mesne profits. No special action could be
maintained for them until the title to the property should
be judicially determined. It is controlled rather by the
title "Of the Right of Accession to what is produced by the
thing."*
"Fruits of the earth, whether spontaneous or cultivated, belong to the proprietor by right of accession."t
"The fruits of the thing belong to its owner, although they
may have been produced by the work and labor of a third person or from seeds sown by him, on the owner's reimbursing
such person for his expenses."I
"The produce of the thing does not belong to the simple possessor, and must be returned with the thing to the owner who
claims the same, unless the possessor held it bondfide."ยง
Speaking strictly, there was not only no cause of action,
but no right to the mesne profits until the judgment in the
original suit.
There is no article of the Code to which our attention is
called which limits this claim to the profits for three years.
On the contrary, the rules of the civil law and the general
principles of equity jurisprudence hold that there is no such
limit. It will be observed that this question does not in* Civil Code, 490-494.

t- Article 490.

$ Ib. 493.

Ib. 494.

634

INEw OILLEANS V. GAINES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

volve the allowance for improvements or to its extent. That
point has been already disposed of, and the defendant has
been allowed for the improvements and beneficial structures
made by it during the term. We are now endeavoring to
ascertain whether the recovery for the rents and profits
which have been adjudged to be paid shall be limited as required by the defendant.
The rule is thus laid down in Justiniau:
"If any man shall have purchased or by any other means
honestly acquired lands from another whom he believed to be
the true owner, when in fact he was not, it is agreeable to
natural reason that the fruits which he shall have gathered
shall become his own on account of his care in the culture; and
therefore if the true owner afterwards appear and claim his
lands he can have no action against the bond fide possessor for
produce consumed. But this exemption is not granted to him
who knowingly keeps possession of another's estate, and therefore he is compellable to account for all the mesne profits, together with the land."*
The chancery rule is thus laid down in Peere Williams :t
"'Where one is in possession of lands belonging to an infant,
if the infant when of age makes oat his title, he shall recover
the profits in equity from the first accruing of his title, and not
from the filing of the bill only. So the defendant shall account
for the profits from the time the plaintiff's title accrued, and
not from the filing of the bill only, if the defendant has concealed the deeds and writings making out the plaintiff's title."
In Dormer v. Porleseue,t Lord Hardwicke says:
"There are several cases where the court does decree an account of rents and profits, and that from the time the title
accrued, as where there is a trust and an equitable title merely,
or where a widow claims dower merely, but needs the aid of
chancery to find out the lands, the court will give her the profits
from the time of the demand not only, but from the time of her
title accrued."
:Justinian Inst., lib. 2, tit. 1,

35.

t Bennet v. Whitehead, 2 Peere Williams, 645.
$ 3 Atkyns, 128.

Dec. 1872.]

MEAD V. THozPSON.
Statement of the case.

In the case hefore him he decreed an account upon these
principles, for a period of fifteen years.
The present action was commenced by Mrs. Gaines nearly
seventeen years ago. It was a bill in equity praying for a
discovery, for an accounting for rents and profits, and for
general relief. After much tribulation she has reached the
point of an accounting, which the defendant has brought
before us on appeal. We think there is no prescription of
the rents and profits, but that the allowance in this respect
was properly made.
Upon the whole case we are of the opinion that the decree or order upon the master's report must be affirmed,
and the
EXCEPTIONS THERETO DISALLOWED.

MEAD V. THOMPSON.
1. If a petition to the Circuit Court to re-examine a decree of the District
Court in Bankruptcy, pray the court to "'review" and reverse that decree and "to grant such further order and relief as may seem just," the
jurisdiction invoked must be regarded as the supervisory jurisdiction
which is allowed to Circuit Courts acting as courts of equity by the
second section of the Bankrupt Act.
2. From the action of the Circuit Court in the exercise of such jurisdiction
no appeal lies to this court.

THis was a motion of Mr. A. J. Parker,for John Thompson, a banrupt, to dismiss two appeals by his creditors from
a decree.of the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
New York, affirming a decree of discharge granted to him
by the District Court.
The case was thus:
The "Act to establish a uniform sjstem of Bankruptcy
throughout the United States," approved March 2d, 1867,
which gives to the District Courts exclusive original jurisdiction in matters of bankruptcy, enacts by its"SECTION 2. That the several Circuit Courts . ..within and

