CITY OF CHARLESTON V. BRANCH.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

garded as amending or modifying the charter of the company. They merely authorize the extension of certain bonds
made by the company (which the State had guaranteed), by
the issue of new bonds of like character, and the continuation of the mortgage for securing the payment of said bonds.
But whatever may be thought on this point, the third section of the act of 1843 clearly withdraws from the operation
of the act of 1841 (by which power to amend and repeal is
reserved) the entire charter of the company except as to
future grants, renewals, and modifications. Such future
grants only were to be subject to alteration and repeal. This
seems to us conclusive of the point raised, and no further
argument is necessary.
It is our opinion, therefore, that the part of the line now
under consideration is exempt from taxation; and that so
much of the decree as relates thereto is correct.
DECREE REVERSED, with directions to enter a decree making the injunction perpetual as to all that part of the line
and railroad of said South Carolina Railroad Company,
which extends from Branchville to Columbia and Camden,
and as to all property and stock of said company, properly
apportionable and applicable to the said portion of line and
railroad, and dismissing the bill as to all the residue of the
railroad property and stock of said company, and that such
further proceedings be had as may be necessary to perfect
and carry out said decree.

NOTE.

AT the same time with the preceding case was argued and
adjudged another appeal, from the same court, the case, namely,
of the
CITY OF CHARLESTON

v.

BRANCH,

in which case Branch had filed a bill against the councils of the
said city and against the same South Carolina Railroad Company, to prevent the former from collecting and the latter from

Dec. 1872.]

PRouT v. Rolm.
Syllabus.

paying a tax, levied by the city on the station-house of the railroad, and the property appurtenant to it in the said city. The
principles involved were the same as in the last case, and the
court below granted the injunction, thus holding the property
free from taxation. The city appealed.
After argument by the same counsel as in the former case, the
opinion of the court was delivered by
Mr. Justice BRADLEY:
The principles laid down in the preceding case must be applied to this. All parts of the road and property formerly belonging to the South Carolina Caual and Railroad Company,
and all appendages and appurtenances thereof, are liable to
taxation; whilst all property acquired by the South Carolina
Railroad Company directly under its own charter, And for purposes connected with its original road, is exempt from taxation.
Primid facie the railroad terminus and depot in Charleston, and
the property accessory thereto, belong to the South Carolina
Canal and Railroad Company portion of the joint property.
But if it can be fairly shown that any of the company's property in Charleston, claimed to be taxable, was acquired by the
South Carolina Railroad Company for the accommodation of
the business belonging to its original roads, or for the joint accommodation of the entire system of roads under its control,
such property will, pro tanto, and in fair proportion, be exempt
from taxation.
DECREE REVERSED,

and the record remitted to the Circuit

Court with directions to proceed
IN

CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

PROUT V. ROBY.
1. No particular phraseology is necessary to create a separate estate for a
feme covert. In whatever language expressed, if there is a clear intent
of the parties to create the estate, it is created.
2. A lease of land for a term of years on a ground-rent, fixed, to P. "in
trust for J. M. (a married woman), her heirs and assigns," with a covenant on the part of the lessor that on payment of a principal sum
named, he will, at any time, convey the land in fee to " the said J. M.,

