Dec. 1872.]

PARTRIDGE v. THE INSURANCE COMPANY.

573

Syllabus.

regular apparatus of coupons--securities specially framed
and contrived for distant and diffusive circulation ? When
the legislature deemed it desirable for the parish to issue
such paper to enable it to raise money, the power was expressly given, with proper safeguards and limitations. This
very fact indicates the legislative understanding that no
general and indefinite power of the kind had any existence.
In our opinion the police jury had no authority to issue
the bonds and coupons in question; and therefore the judgment must be
REVERSED.

PARTRIDGE V. THE INSURANcE COMPANY.
1. An agent of an insurance company who had been engaged in a State different from that where it was situated, in soliciting business for it, and
getting fixed commissions on all premiums which actually came into
his hands-his right to all which was not questioned in the suit-being
a little put out at other agents being sent into the same State, inquired
of the company by letter what his "status" was, "if the State agency
is open to the trial of candidates?" To this the company replied in
writing: "Your status is simply this-you are working up a business
for yourself, and are paid the highest commissions which we pay."
Held, the agent being afterwards discharged from the company's service, that he could not prove by witnesses that the phrase in the company's letter had a technical meaning, and that there was a usage between insurance companies and their agents in the place where the
agency was that all agents should have the right to solicit and cause
policies to be issued according to the published rules of the company,
and to collect all premiums on renewal thereof during the time the
policy was in force, and that if the agent was discharged without sufficient cause, and against his will, he was entitled to be paid immediately the present value of his commissions, calculated by the actuarial
rule used to value policies. The ground of the holding was that the
language of the letter was neither ambiguous nor technical, and that
to suffer such evidence to go in would have established by parol a new
term to a written contract.
2. Where, in proceedings in State courts, the laws of a State allow a set-off
pleaded to be interposed and tried in the same suit with the claim
against which it is pleaded, the same thing may be done when the suit
is brought or transferred into the Federal courts from them.

.574

PARTRIDGE V. THE INSURANOE COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Missouri;
the case apparently having been thus:
In January, 1867, one Winslow being agent for the State
of Missouri of the Phcenix Mufual Life Insurance Company
of Hartford, Connecticut, in the business of soliciting persons to insure and keep insured in that company, Partridge
made an arrangement with him to go into partnership with
him in the agency; and Winslow having written to the company accordingly, the company in reply tell him that there
was a Mr. Jones-" now the company's agent for Minnesota, and a man second to none in the West for energy and
sound judgment"-who was very sanguine that he could
make arrangements with him, Winslow, for a systematic
and thorough "working" of the two States, which would
prove mutually beneficial. And that "without 'meaning to

be understood as saying one word against Mr. Partridge

-on the contrary, not seeing why matters cannot be arranged so as to have him also as one of the workers for the
company-the company would advise Winslow to hold on
and wait a little before making any permanent arrangement."
Jones coming to St. Louis soon after this, he, Winslow,
and Partridge entered into an arrangement by which 'Winslow retired, leaving Jones and Partridge partners in the
State agency. Jones in a short time went to Hartford, and
was sent by the company on business in Iowa, &c., leaving
Partridge alone in Missouri. Partridge went on as he had
been going on from his first arrangement with Winslow, in
soliciting people who had not previously been insured to in-

sure themselves in the company and in getting renewals of
such policies as had been made previous to his coming in
and had now run out.
On all first insurances he received 20 per cent. of the
premium, and on all renewals 7- per cent. About his right
to these, or to his having actually received them, there was
no dispute.
In September, 1867, the company having written to Partridge about persons who had applied for an agency in Mis-

Dec. 1872.]

PARTRIDGE v. THE INSURANCE COMPANY.

575

Statement of the case.

souri, he writes to the company, responding civilly to some
inquiries, but says"I am free to confess a little surprise at your remarks, coupling the persons you speak of with the general agency of the
State of Missouri. I supposed it was settled that Mr. Jones and
myself were to occupy the position of State agents. And just
here permit me to inquire what my status is, if the State agency is
open to the trial of candidates."
To this the company, by a letter dated September 7th,
1867, reply:
"Concerning your status in Missouri, it is simply this: You
are there working up a business for yourself, and are paid the
highest commissions which we pay, and in any arrangements
which we may make for the State, will not overlook your interests, but we bad no idea of giving you the exclusive control
of a State which it will require a most experienced agent to
take charge of and work up."
"1After I received this letter of the 7th of September,"
said Partridge, in speaking of it, "I understood it, and was
satisfied with it, and continued on as agent, soliciting policies, collecting premiums and renewals, and reporting as
required by the rules of the company."
In December, 1867, the company sent out a Mr. Dye to
St. Louis, telling Partridge that it is with a view to his procuring the company a greater amount of business out of the
State; that Dye's efforts would not conflict with his, and that
he, Partridge, "can proceed in his own way on his own account."

Difficulties, however, soon occurred in consequence of
Dye's corning out, and on the 15th of February, 1868, a
little more than a year after his agency began, Partridge
was discharged by the company, he having at this time a
sum of $1772 in his hands collected for premiums. He now
brought suit in one of the State courts of Missouri against
the company. The company removed the case into the
Federal court, under the act of Congress of 1866, and that
of 1867 amendatory thereof. These enact that after a suit

576

PARTRIDGE V. THE INSURANCE COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

removed from a State court has been entered in the Federal
court, it shall proceed in the same manner as if it had been
brought there by original process, and the pleadings have
"the same force and effect, in every respect, and for every
purpose, as the original pleadings would have bad by the
laws and practice of such State if the cause had remained in
the State court."
On the trial the plaintiff admitted that he had received 20
per cent. commissions on all first premiums, and 7-1 per cent.
commissions on all renewal premiums that had been actually collected by him, and that there was in his hands at the
time of his discharge $1772 in money, the property of the
company, if they were not liable to him for the value of
future commissions to accrue on the policies.
It was then announced by him that the real point of dispute in the cause was this, viz.: that, under the facts and
circumstances of his employment and service, the letters
and correspondence had with him by the company, and particularly by the terms of the aforesaid letter of September
7th, 1867, and by force and virtue of a general usage existing in St. Louis at that time in regard to the business of life
insurance companies and their agents, he was entitled to retain the agency, and, in case of his removal against his will,
and without sufficient cause, was entitled to be paid a commutation equal to the present value of his commissions,
computed by the itetuarial rule for computing the present
value of policies.
The defendants maintained that they were not bound by
any usage except that of their own company; that the plaintiff was their agent only at the will of the company, and
might be discharged at any time without cause, and was
not entitled to any payment or commutation on policies solicited during his agency, except his commission actually
accruing during his agency, which, as he admitted, he had
received.
They pleaded further their set-off; to their pleading which
no objection was made by the plaintiff.
The plaintiff then propounded to a witness the following

Dec. 1872.] PARTRIDGE V. THE INSURANCE COMPANY.

577

Statement of the case.

question, the witness having first qualified himself as an expert in insurance matters, terms, and language:
"Is there in the phrase contained in the letter of defendant
of September 7th, 1867, to wit'( IConcerning your status in Missouri, it is simply this: You are there
working up a business for yourself, and are paid the highest commissions
which we pay'

"any peculiar or technical meaning as used by men engaged
in life insurance, and as applied to the business of life insurance,
different from the ordinary meaning of these terms ?"

In answer to which question the plaintiff offered to prove
by this witness, and by many others experienced in life insurance, that the said phrase did have a peculiar meaning
in that regard, well understood by men in the business- of
life insurance, and not well understood by those not familiar
with the business; that its meaning as understood in that
business was that the agent should have the right to solicit
and cause policies to be issued according to the published
rules and rates of the company, and should have the right
during the life and force of such policies to collect all renewal premiums thereon, and have commissions on such
renewals, and that if he was discharged by the company
without sufficient cause he was entitled to be paid immediately, the present value of his commissions, to be computed
by the actuarial, rule used by such companies to value
policies.
The question offered to be put was objected to by the defendant, and the objection was sustained by the court, on
the ground that the language referred to was plain and intelligible, and required no explanation, and that such evidence as was offered would vary the contract between the
parties. To this ruling the plaintiff excepted.
The jury found a verdict for the company, $1772 on the
counter claim, and judgment was entered accordingly. The
plaintiff now brought the case here.
voL. xv.

87

578

PARTRIDGE v. THE INSURANCE COMPANY.

[Sup. Cr.

Opinion of the court.

Messrs. T. W. .B.Grew and . . -Hardin,for the plaintIffin
error:
1. The question was what an agent's "working up" the
business of life insurance means? Now, on their face, have
those words in connection with that business, a full, plain,
unquestionable meaning, known to all who hear them? We
offered to prove by persons in the business that they had
not such a meaning, buf contrariwise had a technical and
peculiar meaning, understood only by persons in the business, and we offered moreover to show exactly what that
meaning was. Yet, thus to show the true meaning of the
contract, the court held would vary its true meaning, and
that though we offered to prove it on its face ambiguous,
.itwas on that same face without the possibility of two
meanings.
2. The court erred in entering judgment for the $1772.
Even if by the laws of the State and practice of its courts
such a thing had been allowable (which we do not concede),
when the company elected to remove the cause to the Federal court it abandoned all rights under the State laws and
practice, and was bound to conform to the rules of practice
in the Federal courts. These are common-law rules, and
set-off does not prevail.
Mr. 1. P. Chipman, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The question did not arise whether the custom which the
plaintiff offered to prove could have been proved as the
measure of his compensation, in the absence of any express
contract, because the plaintiff had introduced in evidence a
letter from the defendant in reference to this compensation,
under which he said he had acted in taking the policies for
which he now claimed the additional commission. There
was no question as to the amount, or percentage, or pre,mium, which was to be paid under this letter. The plaintiff stated that he had retained a certain percentage, which
,was that allowed by the company. The testimony was not

Dec. 1872.]

PARTRIDGE v. THE INSURANOE COMPANY.

679

Opinion of the court.

offered to show what was the highest commission paid by
the company.
It appears to us, as it did to the Circuit Court, that the
testimony offered would have established a new and distinct
term to the contract. It would have established a contract
very different from the written one introduced by plaintiff.
The language of the letter was neither ambiguous nor technical. It required and needed no expert, no usage to discover its meaning. To have admitted the usage offered in
evidence in this case would have been to make a contract
for the parties differing materially from the written one
under which they had both acted for some time.
The tendency to establish local and limited usages and
customs in the contracts of parties, who had no reference to
them when the transactions took place, has gone quite as far
as sound policy can justify. It places in the hands of corporations, such as banks, insurance companies, and others, by
compelling individuals to comply with rules established for
the interests alone of the former, a power of establishing
those rules as usage or custom with the force of law. When
this is confined to establishing an implied contract, and the
knowledge of the usage is brought home to the other party,
the evil is not so great. But when it is sought to extend
the doctrine beyond this, and incorporate the custom into
an express contract whose terms are reduced to writing and
are expressed in language neither technical nor ambiguous,
and therefore needing no such aid in its construction, it
amounts to establishing the principle that a custom may add
to or vary or contradict the well-expressed intention of the
parties made in writing. No such extension of the doctrine
is consistent either with authority or with the principles
which govern the law of contracts.
A question is raised in this court not raised in the Circuit
Court as to the right of the defendant to recover, by way of
set-off or cross-action against the plaintiff, a sum of money
in his hands as agent of the plaintiff, which was admitted

to be due, if plaintiff's claim was not established. The
amount was admitted by plaintiff, and no objection was

580

LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. TERRY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

made to pleading it as a set-off. Therefore, none can be
made here. But if the point were open to inquiry, it is settled by the case of West v. Aurora Gity,* that defendants in
the Circuit Courts of the United States can avail themselves
of the laws which prevail in the State concerning the right
of set-off generally. It would be a most pernicious doctrine
to allow a citizen of a distant State to institute in these courts
a suit against a citizen of the State where the court is held
and escape the liability which the laws of the State have
attached to all plaintiffs of allowing just and legal set-offs
and counter claims to be interposed and tried in the same
suit and in the same form.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY V. TERRY.
In the case of a policy of life assurance, where there is a condition in the
instrument that if the assured shall "die by his own hand," the policy
shall be void, the rules to be applied in case of the death of the party by
such means, are these, that is to say:
If the assured, being in the possession of his ordinary reasoning faculties,
from anger, pride, jealousy, or a desire to escape from the ills of life,
intentionally takes his own life, the proviso attaches, and there can be
no recovery.
If the death is caused by the voluntary act of the assured, he knowing and
intending that his death shall be the result of his act, but when his reasoning faculties are so*far impaired that he is not able to understand the
moral character, the general nature, consequences, and effedt of the act
he is about to commit, or when he is impelled thereto by an insane impulse, which he has not the power to resist, such death is not within the
contemplation of the parties to the contract, and the insurer is liable.

to the Circuit Court for the District of Kansas.
Mary Terry brought an action in the court below against
the Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York, to recover
the sum of $2000, claimed by her as due upon a policy of inERROR

* 6 Wallace, 139.

