Dec. 1872.]

TARVER V. KEACH.
Statement of the ease.

ceived exceed the actual cost of the property, the excess is to
be'treated, according to their views, as gains of the owner
for the year in which the sale takes place. We are satisfied
that no such result was intended by the statute.
JUDGISENT AFFIRMED.

Dissenting: The CHIEF JUSTICE, and Justices CLIFFORD and BRADLEY.
NoTE.-In view of the divided state of the court in giving judgment in
the above case, it may not be uninteresting to the reader to know that from
a letter, entitled to credit, in the possession of the Reporter, it appears that
the point decided in the case, had been ruled in the same way in the Third
Circuit, by the late Mr. Justice GRIER, in the case of Bennet v. Baker, Collector, tried on the 7th of April, 1865; the late honored Justice having been,
says the letter, "very clear and emphatic in his opinion."]

TARVE

V. ]KEAOH.

'When a decision holding a contract void is made by the highest court of a
State upon the general principles by which courts determine that a
transaction is good or bad on principles of public policy, the decision is
one which this court is not authorized to review.

' motion to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court
of the State of Texas.
The suit below was upon a note payable in common currency circulating in the State of Texas at its maturity, that
is, on the 27th day of November, 1863. This common currency was Confederate notes, and the note in question was
given for the purchase of land.
The Supreme Court of the State held that the transaction
was a gambling one, and dismissed the suit on that ground.
The case being then brought here under an assumption that
it came within the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, quoted
svpra, p. 3, the present motion was made.

CHENEY V. VAN ARSDALE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
In Delrnas v. The Insurance Company,* decided at last term,
we held that'when "a decision holding a contract void is
made by the highest court of a State upon the general principles by which courts determine that a transaction is good
or bad on principles of public policy, the decision is one we
are not authorized to review." We are entirely satisfied
with that judgment and with the grounds assigned for it,
and do not think it necessary to restate them. It follows
that the writ of error to the Supreme Court of Texas must
be
,DISMISSED.

CHENEY V. VAN ARSDALE.
Under the act of Congress of July 13th, 1866, iron castings, cast for thimbleskeins and pipe-boxes, between the 1st of September, 1866, and the 1st of
Mharch, 1867, were subject to an internal revenue tax.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Wisconsin, in which court a certain Van Arsdale brought
suit against Cheney, collector of internal revenue, to recover
duties paid the said collector on certain iron castings, cast
for thimble-skeins and pipe-boxes; matters used in the construction of the running-gear of vehicles for the road. The
case was thus:
An act of June 30th, 1864,t to provide internal revenue
to support the government, to pay interest on the public
debt, and for other purposes, amended by an act of March
3d, 1865,1 laid duties on nearly every sort of manufacture,
including pig iron, railroad iron, all iron advanced beyond
blooms, slabs, or loops, on iron castings used for bridges or
other permanent structures, on stoves and hollow-ware, on
steel in ingots, bars, sheet, or wire, &c., &c.
An act of July 13th, 1866, entitled " An act to reduce in* 14 Wallace, 661.

t

13 Stat. at Large, 223.

$ 1b. 469.

