HOLYOK

COMPANY V. LYMAN.

[Sup. Gt.

Statement of the case.

HoLYosE COMPANY V. LYMAN.
1. By the settled law of Massachusetts, the rights of fishery in such rivers as
the Connecticut, even above the point where it is navigable for boats
or rafts, are public rights, and, unless there be some express provision
to the contrary, are subject to such reasonable regulations as the State
may make for their protection; including the right to require of persons who own or build dams, that they construct such fishways as will
enable migratory fish to pass from the lower to the higher level of the
water occasioned by such dams.
2. The provision of the Revised Statutes of Massachusetts, chapter 44, section 23, and General Statutes, chapter 68, section 41, declaring that acts
of incorporation shall be subject to amendment, alteration, or repeal, at
the pleasure of the legislature; reserves to the legislature the authority
to make any alteration or amendment of a charter granted subject to it,
which will not defeat or substantially impair the object of the grant or
any rights vested under it, and which the legislature may deem necessary to secure either that object or other public or private rights.
3. After a manufacturing corporation, chartered with authority to construct and maintain a dam across a river, paying damages to the owners
of fishing rights above, and whose charter does not expressly exempt it
from maintaining the dam without a fishway, and is subject under the
provision above quoted to amendment; alteration, and repeal at the
pleasure of the legislature, has paid. such damages and constructed the
dam without a fishway, so as to destroy the fishing rights above and to
impair similar rights below (for the injury to which last no compensation has ever been made or provided), that corporation, or any other
which purchases its dam under the authority of a subsequent statute,
may be constitutionally required by the legislature to construct a fishway in the dam to the satisfaction of commissioners appointed by the
legislature for the purpose.

ERROR to the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts;
the case being this :
The "General Laws"* of the State just named, provide
that every act of incorporation passed since the 11th of
March, 1831,
"Shall at all times be subject to ameidment, alteration, or
repeal at the pleasure of the legislature."

This general law being on the statute-book the legislature
of the State in 1848 passed an act to incorporate the Hadley
* Chapter 68,

41; levisecl Statutes, chapter 44,

23.

Dec. 1872.]

HoLYoKE COMPANY v. LYMAN.

501

Statement of the case.

Falls Company, for the purpose of constructing and maintaining a dam across the Connecticut River, and of creating
a water-power to be used by the corporation. The capital
stock was fixed at $5,000,000, and it could hold $500,000
worth of real estate. The corporation was authorized and
empowered "to construct and maintain a dan. across the
river" at a point named, sufficient to raise the water to a
height not exceeding one specified. The act in its fourth
section read thus:
"The said corporation shall pay such damages to the owners
of the present fishing rights existing above the dam which the
said company is herein empowered to construct, as may be
awarded by the county commissioners of the counties in which
said rights exist."
And a mode was provided by which either the company
"or any owners of the said fishing rights" might at any
time proceed to determine the damages done to them.
Nothing was said about damages done to fishing rights
below the dam, nor about making or maintaining, or not
No power was
making and maintaining any "fishway."
given to condemn the land of others for the site of the dam
or for any other purpose.
The Hadley Falls Company built at great expense a dam,
but without any fishway in it. Before this dam was built
shad were accustomed to pass up the river beyond the dam,
and were of value to the private owners of riparian fishing
rights for sale as food, and a source of income to such proprietors both above and below the dam. The dam, however,
by preventing the passage of the fish up the river, destroyed
the fishing rights above. And compensation to a large
amount was made to the owners of fisheries above the dan
for the injuries done to their said rights.
After the dam was built, and owing to it, the number of
shad in the river below decreased in a small but appreciable
degree; the dam preventing them from passing to their
former spawning-grounds above; and to some extent causing
them not to return to the river after their annual passage to

HOLYOKE COmPANY V. LYMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the sea. Nfo owners of fishing rights below the dam had,
however, ever claimed damages on this account.
On the 31st of January, 1859, the Hadley Company having failed, the same legislature passed an act incorporating
the iolyoke Water-power Company, "for the purpose of
upholding and maintaining the dam across the Connecticut
River, heretofore constructed by the Hadley Falls Company,"
and gave to the new corporation full power "to purchase,
take, hold, receive, sell, lease, and dispose of all and any part
of the estate, with all the water-power, water-courses, waterprivileges, dams, rights, easements, and appurtenances thereto
belonging, or therewith connected, which have at any time
heretofore belonged to the Hadley Falls Company."
The part of the Connecticut River where this dam was
constructed runs through the State of Massachusetts, and is
not navigable.
In this state of things the legislature passed in 1866 and
subsequently, certain statutes, which authorized the commissioners of fisheries of the State to examine the several
darns on the rivers of Massachusetts, and after notice to the
owners thereof; to determine and define the mode and plan
upon which suitable and sufficient fishways should be constructed. The statute regulated the plans, methods, &c.,
and provided that if any proprietor of any dam should refuse or neglect to agree with the commissioners to build the
fishways for thirty days after a plan was duly furnished to
him, the commissioners might build the same at his expense.
Under and in pursuance of this legislation, the Holyoke
Company was required to build a fishway in their dam.
The fishway required was one that would cost about $30,000;
and, as appeared, would not diminish the water-power of
the company, except when they desired to add to it by what
are known as "flash boards." The company refused to
comply with the requirement, contending that the acts of
incorporation to the two companies constituted contracts,
that by the payment of damages to the owners of fishing
rights above the dam the Holyoke Company had the right to
maintain "the dam," theretofore constructed by the Hadley

Dec. 1872.]

HOLYo E COMPANY V. LYMAN.
Argument for the company.

Company, and that the acts of 1866, &c., were laws impairing the obligations of contracts, and so in violation of the
Federal Constitution. The court below, on a proceeding
authorized by the statute to make-them do so, adjudged
otherwise, and its judgment was now here for review.
Mr. . Chamberlin, for the plaintiff in error:
1. Where an absolute right to do an act is given, a contract is made that the State will do no act to impair that absolute right. Thus if an absolute grant of land is made, the
State cannot thereafter annex a condition restricting its use;
or if power is given to erect a bridge of a certain character,
the State cannot cause the owner to make an alteration in
it. The same rule will apply to a right given without any
reservation to make a dam.
In The People v. Plalt,*the State of New York had granted
lands on both sides of the Saranac River, without any reservation of the river, or any restriction on the use of it expressed in the grant. By a statute subsequently passed,
owners of all dams were required to make fishways, and it
was held that such a requirement was unconstitutional as to
the defendants, because the unrestricted use of the land and
river was given, and it could not be afterwards restricted.
In Commonwealth v. .New Bedford Bridge,t a charter was
granted to erect a bridge, with draws of a certain width,
and it was held that a statute ordering draws of an increased
width to be built was void. The court say:
"NVor can the legislature, without the assent of the defendants, in any way impair the original terms of the charter by
annexing new conditions or imposing additionalburdens, onerous in
their nature or inconsistent with a reasonable construction of
the compact."
In West Biver Bridge Company v. D!x,j this court gives the
same construction of the clause of the Constitution about
contracts on which we rely, and say:
"The language and meaning of the inhibition were designed
* 17 Johnson, 213.

t 2 Gray, 339.

$6 Howard, 583.

HOLYOKE COMPANY V. LYMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the company.
to embrace proceedings attempting the interpolation of some
new term or condition foreign to the original agreement, and
therefore inconsistent with and violative thereof."
Now in our case, we find an unreserved and unconditional right to erect and maintain a dam across the Connecticut River. Does not a statute that we shall erect a
fishway at any cost which the State sees fit to require, interfere with our "perfect use and enjQyment of the thing
granted ?"
It is evident, also, that in granting these charters the
legislature had this principle in mind; for it made a provision which was intended to reach the very matter of fishways. It provided that damages should be paid to certain
persons supposed to be affected.
Will it be said that although there is no express reservation at all in the grant, yet that in Massachusetts, in all
charters authorizing the erection of dams, there is an implied
reservation, of a right to require the grantees to make any
fishways in those dams which the legislature may think desirable? The position is not tenable; for the courts of that
State have laid down no such general principle. They
have only declared that owners of lands or privileges on
streams, if they erect dams on them, do so subject to the
usual rule that they must so manage them as not to interfere with the right of persons above or below, either to have
the water flow, or to have fish pass.* But it follows not
that when no reservation of power to cause fishways to be

built has been made in the original contract, the State has
power to "interpolate such term or condition foreign to the
original agreement."
2. Even if in the State of Massachusetts there were an
implied condition annexed to grants of power to build dams,
the State, in the case at bar, has, by providing in our charter for this very right of fish passage, made another con* Stoughton v. Baker, 4 Massachusetts, 522; Commonwealth v. Chapin,
5 Pickering, 199; Vinton v. Welsh, 9 Id. 87; Commonwealth v. Essex Co.,
13 Gray, 239.

Dec. 1872.]

HOLYOKE COMPANY v. LYMAN.
Argument for the company.

tract, which, upon our accepting it and paying damages, as
we have done, exempts us from any further requirement.
This right to have fish pass up and down rivers is a public
right solely. No owner of land above or below a dam can
maintain any action against the builder of a dam which injures his fishery, nor proceed against the dam as a nuisance,
nor is the owner liable to indictment.* If, however, a provision for damages is inserted in a charter, it is clear that
this additional consideration is paid fbr the relinquishment by
the State of the right to thereafter demand fishways, or payment of other or further damages than those required; and a
contract to that effect arises by necessary implication, as clearly
as if it was expressed in terms. For how unjust it would be,
where only an implied condition of building a fishway existed, to put in an express condition that all damages should
be paid, and then force the plaintiff, by building fishways,
to give back to the owners what he had already paid them
for the loss of. Our view does not leave the State without
remedy. It may in the exercise of its right of eminent domain take back this right, by paying for it, as in all other
similar cases.
3. Then will it be said that there is a general statute of
Massachusetts, existing when this charter was made, which
reserves the right to alter, modify, or repeal any charter
theretofore granted, and that the State has the power under
this statute to take back any right it has given even for a
valuable consideration? If this construction can be maintained all that a State has to do, in order to avoid the provision of the Constitution against the passage of laws impairing the obligation of contracts, is to pass a law saying
in substance: "In all contracts I may hereafter make I reserve the right to break them if I see fit." The constitutional provision cannot be evaded in such a manner. But
no such construction can be given to this statute.t The distinction is this: The legislature may, under certain circum* Commonwealth v. Essex Co., 13 Gray, 239.

- Commonwealth v. Essex Co., 13 Gray, 239; and see Durfee v. Old
Colony .Railroad, 5 Allen, 230; Sage v. Dillard, 15 B. Afonroe, 340.

IHOLYOKE COMPANt V. LYMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

stances, alter the charter, but they cannot do anything to affect
or destroy any rights of property acquiredunder the charter; and
if under such reservation they attempt to violate any contract they have made, they are met by a higher power than
their own, which forbids it.
Mr. C. B. Train, Attorney-General of Massachusetts, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Rivers, though not navigable even for boats or rafts, and
even smaller streams of water, may be and often are regarded as public rights, subject to legislative control, as the
means for creating power for operating mills and machinery,
or as the source for furnishing a valuable supply of fish,
suitable for food and sustenance. Such water-power is
everywhere regarded as a public right, and fisheries of the
kind, even in waters not navigable, are also so far public
rights that the legislature of the State may ordain and establish regulations to prevent obstructions to the passage of
the fish, and to promote the usual and uninterrupted enjoyment of the right by the riparian owners. Proprietors of
the kind, if they own both banks of the water-course and
the whole soil over which the water of the stream flows,
may erect dams extending from bank to bank to create
power to operate mills and machinery, subject to certain
limitations and conditions, and may also claim the exclusive
right of fishery within their territorial limits, subject to such
regulations as the legislature may, from time to time, ordain
and establish. Persons owning the whole of the soil constituting the bed and banks of the stream are entitled to the
whole use and profits of the water opposite their land,
whether the water is used as power to operate mills and
machinery or as a fishery, subject to the implied condition
that they shall so use their own right as not to injure the
concomitant right of another riparian owner, and to such
regulations as the legislature of the State shall prescribe.
Where such a proprietor owns the land on one side only of
the stream, his right to the land and to the use of the water,

Dec. 1872.]

HOLYOKE COMPANY V. LYMAN.
Opinion of the court.

whether used as power to operate mills and machinery or
merely as a fishery, extends only to the middle thread of
the stream, as at common law, and is subject to the same
conditions and regulations as when the ownership includes
the whole soil over which the water of the stream flows.
Authority to erect dams across such streams for mill purposes results from the ownership of the bed and the banks
of the stream, or the right to construct the same may be
acquired by legislative grant, in cases where the legislature
is of the opinion that the benefit to the public will be of
sufficient importance to render it expedient for them to exercise the right of eminent domain and to authorize such an
interference with private rights for that purpose. Lands
belonging to individuals have often been condemned for
such purposes, in the exercise of the right of eminent domain, in cases where, from the nature of the country, millsites sufficient in number could not otherwise be obtained,
and that right is, even more frequently, exercised to enable
mill-owners to flow.the water back beyond their own limits,
in order to create sufficient power or head and fall to operate
their mills. Concomitant with the authority to erect such
dams for such purposes over the beds of water-courses, as
resulting from the title to the banks and bed of the stream,
is also the exclusive right of fishery, which also has its
source in the same ownership of the soil, and the better
opinion is that it is not divested or extinguished by any
legislative act condemning the land to the use of another for
mill purposes, unless the words of the grant conferring the
authority to construct the dam plainly indicate that such
was the intention of the legislature. Water rights of the
kind, whether the streams are used for mill purposes or
merely as fisheries, are justly entitled to public protection,
as they are in many cases of great value to the community
where they exist, but they are the source of many conflicting interests which the State legislature as well as the
courts have found it difficult to adjust, as appears from the
countless efforts which have been made in that behalf without complete success.

508

HOLYOKE COMPANY V. LYMAN.

[Sup.

Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

Certain persons, their associates and successors, on the
twenty-eighth of April, 1848, were incorporated by the
name of the Hadley Falls Company, for the purpose of constructing a dam across the Connecticut River, and one or
more locks and canals, in connection with the said dam, to
create a water-power to be used for manufacturing and mechanical purposes, and also for the purpose of navigation,
with all the powers and privileges and subject to all the duties, liabilities, and restrictions set forth in the thirty-eighth
and forty-fourth chapters of the revised statutes of the State.*
Power and authority are given to said corporation to construct
and maintain a darn across said river at South Hadley, at any
point between the present dam of the proprietors of the locks
and canals and the lower locks of the said proprietors, of a
height sufficient to raise the water to a point not exceeding
the present level of the water above the dam of the said proprietors; and the farther provision is that the corporation
shall pay such damages to the owners of the present fish
rights above the dam to be erected as shall be awarded by
the county commissioner. Pursuant to the act of incorporation the stockholders accepted the charter, constructed
the dam, paid certain damages to the owners of fish rights
above the dam as constructed, and expended, as the respondents allege, more than two millions of dollars, including
the cost of the dam and the damages paid to parties adversely interested, in constructing their improvements, and
failed in business. New parties acquired the title to the
dam and the other improvements, and on the thirty-first of
January, 1859, the respondents in this case, as such new
proprietors, their associates and successors, were incorporated by the name of the Holyoke Water-power Company,
and they were empowered to uphold and maintain the dam
and other improvements constructed by the prior company,
and to erect and maintain a water-power to be used for the
same purposes as those described in the prior charter, with
the same powers and privileges and subject to the same lia* 8 Special Laws, 949; Revised Statutes, 328-366.

Dec. 1872.]

HOLYOKE COMPANY V. LYMAN.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

bilities and restrictions.* Special power was conferred upon
the governor, by and with the advice and consent of the
council, by the act of the fifteenth of May, 1866, to appoint
commissioners of fisheries in the said river and one other
river, to hold their offices for five years unless sooner removed, and it was made their duty by the same act forthwith to examine the several dams on said rivers in said State,
and after notice to the owners of the dams, to determine
and define the mode and plan by which fishways shall be
constructed, suitable and sufficient to secure the free passage of salmon and shad up said rivers during their accustomed seasons. Said commissioners are also authorized to
agree with the proprietors of such dams to construct at their
own expense said fishways according to the plans adopted,
if the proprietors consent so to do, and if they fulfil the
agreement and the fact is duly certified to the secretary of
state, the provision is that the same, for the period of five
years, shall be taken and deemed as in lieu of the fishways
which such a proprietor is now required by law to keep
and maintain for that purpose. Unless the proprietor of
such a dam shall agree with the commissioners within thirty
days from the time he is so furnished with the plan to build
such fishway in the manner prescribed, the commissioners
are authorized to construct the same in behalf of the State,
and in that event the provision is that the expense shall be
a charge against the owner of such dam, and the same may
be recovered of the proprietor in an action of contract in
the name of the State, or the commissioners may enforce
the construction of such a fishway, by a bill in equity, to
compel a specific performance.t Due notice having been
given by the complainants, as such commissioners, to the
respondents as the owners of said dam, of their intention to
examine the dam pursuant to the provisions of the aforesaid
acts of the legislature, they proceeded to perform that duty
and determined and defined the mode and plan in which
* Private Acts, 1859, 225.

t Sessions Acts 1866, 231; Id. 1867, 741; Id. 1869, 677-741.

foLYOKE COMPAN

v. LYMAN.

Esup. Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

the fishway should be constructed therein, suitable and sufficient to secure the free passage of salmon and shad over the
dam and up the river during their accustomed seasons.
They also furnished the respondents with the plan and
specifications of such fishway, and filed a copy of the same
in the office of the secretary of state, and requested the respondents to construct such a fishway or to agree with them
as such commissioners to comply with that requirement, but
it appears that the respondents refused and neglected so to
do, insisting that the State had no power or right to require
them to build such a fishway. Entirely different views were
entertained by the complainants, and they instituted the
present suit to compel the corporation respondents to comply with that requirement, and the State court entered a
decree for the complainants.* Dissatisfied with that decree
the respondents sued out the present writ of error and removed the cause into this court.
Ample power was vested in the first company to hold
real estate, not exceeding five hundred thousand dollars in
value, but their act of incorporation did not give the company any authority to condemn the real estate of another to
any extent or for any purpose. They were required to "pay
such damages to the owners of present fish rights existing
above the dam" as should be awarded by the county cornmissioners of the counties in which said rights existed, and
they might at any time apply to said commissioners to proceed, ascertain, and determine the damages to said fish rights,
subject, however, to an appeal to ajury from such assessment,
as in cases of assessment of damages f6r land taken for highways. Damages for injuries to fish rights above the dam
were to be ascertained and assessed, but no authority was
conferred to condemn the land of another for the site of the
dam or for any other purpose, nor was any provision made
to ascertain and assess the damages to fish rights below the
dam, nor does either charter contain a provision exempting
* Commissioners on Inland Fisheries v. Holyoke Water-power Co., 104
Massachusetts, 451; Weston v. Sampson, 8 Cushing, 347.

Dec. 1872.]

HOLYoKE COMPANY v. LYMAN.

511

Opinion of the court.

the builders and owners of the dam from the obligation to
construct suitable and sufficient fishways for the free passage of fish up the river during their accustomed seasons.
ione of these propositions are controverted, but the respondents insist that the acts of the legislature under which
they have been required to make the fishways in question,
impair the obligation of the contract contained in the charter
incorporating their grantors, and that those acts are inoperative and void as contravening the article of the Constitution
which prohibits the States from passing any law impairing
the obligation of contracts.
Such a charter, when accepted by the corporators, is
undoubtedly a contract that the powers, privileges, and
franchises granted shall" not be restrained, controlled, or
destroyed without their consent, unless a power for that
purpose is reserved to the legislature in the act of incorporation or in some prior general law, in operation at the
time the act of incorporation was passed.* Private charters
of the kind are held to be contracts, because they are based
for their consideration on the liabilities and duties which
the corporators assume by accepting the terms therein specified, and the general rule is that the grant of the franchise
on that account can no more be resumed by the legislature
or its benefits diminished or impaired, without the assent of
the corporators, than any other grant of property or legal
estate, unless the right to do so is reserved in the act of incorporation or by some immemorial usage or general law
of the State, which was in operation at the time the charter
was granted.t Charters of private corporations duly accepted, it must be admitted, are executed contracts, but the
different provisions, unless they are clear, unambiguous, and
free of doubt, are subject to construction, and their true intent and meaning must be ascertained by the same rules of
interpretation as other legislative grants. Repeated de* Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheaton, 709-712; Wales v. Stetson, 2 Massachusetts, 146.
t Pennsylvania College Cases, 13 Wallace, 218.

HOLYOKE COMPANY V. LYMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

cisions of this court have established the rule, that whenever
privileges are granted to a corporation, and the grant comes
under revision in the courts, such privileges are to be strictly
construed against the corporation and in favor of the public,
and that nothing passes but what is granted in clear and
explicit terms.* Whatever is not unequivocally granted in
such acts is taken to have been withheld, as all acts of incorporation and acts extending the privileges of corporate
bodies are to be taken most strongly against the corporations.t
Evidently the right of fishery, as well as the right to use
the water of a stream for mill purposes, is the subject of
private ownership, and when held by a good title, the one
as much as the other is a vested right, and both alike are
entitled to public protection, and'are subject, in a certain
sense, to legislative regulation and control. Difficulties, in
every ease, attend the proper adjustment of such rights, as
the complete enjoyment of the one may interfere with the
corresponding enjoyment of the other, but the presumption
is, in construing any regulation upon the subject, that the
framers of the regulation did not intend to allow either
party to disregard the rule that he should so use his own
property as not to injure the property of the owner of the
other right.
Ownership of the banks and bed of the stream; as before
remarked, gives to the proprietor the exclusive right of fishery, opposite his land, as well as the right to use the water
to create power to operate mills, but neither the one nor the
other right nor both combined confer any right to erect obstructions in the river to prevent the free passage of the fish
up and down the river at their accustomed seasons, as such
obstructions would impair and ultimately destroy all such
rights owned by other proprietors both above and below the
obstruction on the same stream. Authoritative support to
* Rice v. Railroad Co., 1 Black, 380; Charles River Bridge v. Warren
Bridge, 11 Peters, 544.
t Sedgwick on Statutes and Constitutional Law, 339; Lees v. Canal Conpany, 11 East, 652.

Dec.

1872.]

HOLYOKE COMPANY v. LYMAN.
Opinion of the court.

these views is found in the judicial decisions and legislative
enactments of the State throughout her history, commencing
even before the Revolution, and continued in an unbroken
series to the present time.*
Undoubtedly each proprietor of the land adjoining such a
river or stream has in that State a several or exclusive right
of fishery in the river immediately before his land, to the
middle of the river, and may prevent all others from participating in it, and will have a right of action against any who
shall usurp the exercise of it without his consent, but the
Provincial Statute of 8 Anne, ch. 3 (A.D. 1709),t prohibited
all persons, "without approbation or allowance," from placing in or across rivers or streams any weir, hedge, or other
incumbrance to obstruct the free passage of fish in the
proper seasons of the year. Persons who erect or build a
darn across any river or stream where the salmon, shad, alewives, or other fish usually pass up into the natural ponds
to cast their spawn, were required by the Provincial Statute
of 15 George II, ch. 6 (A.D. 1741), to make a sufficient passageway for the fish to pass up such river or stream, and the
owners of dams, bo constructed that such fish could not conveniently pass up the river or stream, were required to make
such a passageway and keep it open for a certain period in
each year, as therein prescribed.1 Laws of the kind, requiring the owners of dams across the rivers and streams of
the State, to build fishways and keep them in repair, have
been passed, in numerous instances, since the State constitution was adopted, many of which are still in full force.
Such laws usually require the owners of the dam to build
the fishway at their own expense, and subject their doings
in that behalf to the approval of some supervisory board
or committee.ยง 3Reference was made at the argument to
some thirty-five or forty statutes of the kind, passed at different periods, commencing the year the constitution of the
Commonwealth v. Chapin, 5 Pickering, 204.
1 Provincial Laws, 162.
Ib. 297; Ib. 17 Geo. II (A.D. 1743),813; lb. 19 Geo. II (A.D.1745), 321.
2 Laws of :Massachusetts, Appendix, 1020-1026.
VOL. xv.

83

HOLYOKE COMPANY V. LYMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

State was adopted (1780) and coming down to the present
time, covering a period of more than ninety years.*
Statutes also encouraging mills by authorizing their owners or occupants to overflow the lands of other persons, by
paying such damages as may be assessed in the mode prescribed, are also of very ancient origin, and have received
the sanction of the courts of the State throughout the whole
period of her history.t
Public rights, in all jurisdictions, are subject to legislative
control, and it is settled law in Massachusetts, and has been
for a century and a half, including her colonial history, that
the right of fishery in such rivers as the Connecticut and
Merrimac, even above the point where they are navigable
for boats or rafts, and the right to erect and maintain dams
to create water-power for mill purposes, are public rights,
and that the owners of such rights are bound by such teasonable regulations as the State may make and ordain for
their protection and enjoyment.
All persons, say the Supreme Court of that State, in the
case of Sloughion v. Baker,, who may build a dam for mill
purposes, on a stream annually frequented by fish, do it
under an implied obligation to keep open sufficient sluices
and fishways for the passage of fish at the proper seasons,
and that the grant of the right to erect a dam, if made by
the legislature, is to be construed to be under the same implied condition to keep open the fishways, unless such implication is excluded by an express provision exempting the
grantees from such an obligation. By the statement of facts
in that case it appears that the defendants' dam was an ancient dam; that they deraigned their title from the original
Vinton v. Welsh, 9 Pickering, 90; Angell on "Waters (6th ed.), 72;
Washburn on Easements (2d ed.), 601; Peables v. Hannaford, 18 Maine,
106; Parker v. Mill Dam Co., 20 Id. 858.
t 1 Provincial Statutes, 12 Anne, ch. 1 (A.D.1709), 160; 1b. 12 Anne, ch. 8
(A.D. 1714), 181; Ancient Charter, 888-404; 2 Laws of Massachusetts, 729;
Revised Statutes (1886), C76; Angell on Waters (6th ed.), 664; Washburn
on Easements, 832; Murdock v. Stickney, 8 Cushing, 119.
4 Maszachusetts, 528.

Dec. 1872.]

HoLYOKE Co-mPANY v. LYMAN.
Opinion of the court.

proprietor, who acquired his right thereto in 1633 by a grant
from the town within whose limits the mill-site was then
situated; that the grant included the mill privilege and a
weir adjoining the mill, and the exclusive right of fishery;
that the grant was subsequently confirmed by the legislature,
and that no fishway was ever made through the dam until
the year 1789, when one was constructed at the expense of
third parties, pursuant to a resolutipn passed by the legislature of the State; that on the fifteenth of March, 1805, the
legislature appointed a committee to examine the dams ol
that river and to order such alterations to be made in the
fishways as in their opinion would be sufficient for the convenient passage of the fish at said dam. Three-fourths of
the expenses were to be borne by the owners of the dams
and one-fourth by the towns interested in the fisheries.
Suitable fishways were accordingly constructed, and the
towns having paid the whole expense instituted a suit to
recover one-fourth of the expense of the owners of the dam.
Able counsel appeared on both sides, and the opinion of the
court was delivered by Chief Justice Parsons, all of the other
justices concurring. Based on these facts it was contended
for the defendants that the original grant was a bar to the
claim, but the court, conceding that the grant as confirmed
amounted to a franchise of a several fishery, nevertheless
held that the franchise could not be construed to include
the right of excluding all fish from passing above the weir,
the court giving as a reason for the conclusion that the
value of a fishery in such a stream depends upon the shoals
of fish that enter the river and pass to the ponds above to
cast their spawn, adding that if none were allowed to pass,
the public would losetheir supply, and that the fishery would
become of little or no value. Evidence was introduced tending to show that the franchise of the exclusive fishery was
lost by non-user, but the court held that the said franchise,
if it was not lost, would be no objection to the right of the
public to have a convenient passageway for the fish to ascend the river to the ponds. They also held that the original proprietor took a fee in the mill-privilege, and that he

HOLYOKE COMPANY V. LYMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

had the right to erect the dam to raise water sufficient to
operate his mill, but that the right to build a dam for the
use of a mill was subject to the following limitations: (1.)
That the proprietor must make compensation to the owners
of the lands above the dam for damages occasioned by overflowing their lands. (2.) That be must so construct the dam
that the fish will not be interrupted in their passage up the
river to cast their spawn adding that every owner of a water
mill or dam holds it on the condition that a sufficient and
reasonable passageway shall be allowed for the fish.*
Substantially the same questions were presented to the
Supreme Court of the State in the case of Vinton v. Wesh,t
in which the opinion of the court was delivered by Chief
Justice Parker, and the decision was in the same way and
to the same effect. He decided that the owners of dams
across such rivers, as well as the owners of such fisheries,
hold their property subject to such regulations as the legislature from time to time shall prescribe for the preservation
of the fish, basing his conclusion chiefly upon the fact that
the colonial and provincial governments, as well as the government of the State under the State constitution had exercised the right of prescribing such regulations from the first
settlement of the country to the date of the decision in that
case.1
Litigations upon the subject ceased for a time, but the
same questions thirty years later were again presented to
the Supreme Court of the State in the case of Comrnioinwealth
v. Essex ompany,ยง in which the opinion of the court was
delivered by Chief Justice Shaw, as the organ of the whole
court. Special reference is made in that opinion to the
prior decisions of the court upon that subject, and all the
leading cases here referred to are approved and the propositions decided are reaffirmed, the court announcing the folBurnham v. Webster, 5 Massachusetts, 266; Nickerson v. Brackett, 10
Id. 212; Commonwealth v. McCurdy, 5 Id. 324; Cottrill v. Mlyrick, 12
Maine, 229.
t 9 Pickering, 92.
Commonwealth v. Chapin, 5 Pickering, 204.
13 Gray, 248.

Dec.

1872.]

HOLYOKE COMPANY v. LYMAN.

517

Opinion of the court.

lowing conclusions: That from the earliest times the right
of the public to the passage of fish in rivers and the private
rights of riparian proprietors, incident to and dependent on
the public right, have been subject to the regulation of the
legislature; that the mode adopted by the legislature, whether by public or private acts, to secure and preserve such
rights, has been by requiring, in the erection of dams, such
sluices and fishways as would enable these migratory fish,
according to their known habits and instincts, to pass from
the lower to the higher level of the water occasioned by
such dam, so that, although their passage might be somewhat impeded, it would not be thereby essentially obstructed. It appears in that case that the company was duly
incorporated with power to construct a dam across the Mferrimae River at Lawrence, subject to the condition, among
other things, that they should construct suitable fishways in
their dam for the passage of migratory fish; that they applied to the county commissioners, requesting them, after

due notice, to prescribe the mode in which they should construct such fishways in their dam; that such notice was
given and a hearing had, and that the commissioners did
prescribe the mode in which the company should comply
with that requirement, and that the company did construct
such fishways in their said dam according to the mode and
plan so prescribed; that the fishways, however, as constructed, proved to be unsuitable and insufficient to provide
as convenient passageway for the fish.* Circumstances occurring subsequently made it necessary for the company to

ask for leave t( increase their capital stock, and the legislature, in granting their application, also provided that the
company should be liable for all damages occasioned to the
owners of fish rights above the dam by the stopping or impeding the passage of the fish up and down the river by the
said dam, and that such damages should be assessed by the
county commissioners of the county in which such fish rights
existed, saving to the respective parties the right to apply
* 8 Special Laws, 470.

HOLYOKE COMPANY V. LYMAN.

[Sup. ( t.

Opinion of the court.

for a jury to make such assessment in the manner provided
for the recovery of damages from laying out highways.*
Having accepted the amendatory act, the company availed
themselves of that provision and caused the damages to the
fish rights existing above the dam to be assessed, and they
paid the several assessments to the owners of the same,
amounting to the sum of twenty-six thousand dollars, "as
damages for hindering or impeding the passage of fish by
their said dam, with the aforesaid fishways therein, as previously constructed." Such fishways did not admit of the
usual and unobstructed passage of the fish, as required by
the law of the State and the seventh section of their act of
incorporation. Complaints subsequently arose and the company was indicted for such neglect and the case came to
trial, and the jury, under- the rulings and instructions of the
court, found the defendants guilty, and they excepted to the
rulings and instructions of the court and the case was heard
before the full court. Unquestionably the case was fully
considered, and the court in the first place reaffirmed all of
their previous decisions upon the subject, which hold that
persons who build a dam for mill purposes on a stream frequented by migratory fish, do it under an implied obligation
to keep open sufficient sluices and fishways for the passage
of the fish in their accustomed seasons, and that every grant
to erect such a dam is to be construed as under the same
implied condition, unless such implication is excluded by an
express provision to that effect. Still the court held that
the legislature had the power to regulate the public right,
and in view of the fact that the amended charter substituted
a new proceeding for the recovery of damages by the owners
of the fish rights, and that the same, as assumed by the
court, had been executed, the court also held that the
amended charter had in it all the elements of a contract
executed by one party and binding on the other, and that it
was not competent for the legislature, even under the power
reserved in a prior general law, to amend, alter, or repeal
* 8 Special Laws,990.

Dec. 1872.]

HOLYOKE COMPANY

V.

LYMAN.

519

Opinion of the court.

any such charter to require the proprietors of the dam, without any change of circumstances, to construct the flshways,
which by the terms of the amended charter they had been
exempted from any obligation to construct, basing their
opinion upon the ground that the right acquired under that
provision had become vested by a legitimate exercise of the
power granted.*
Vested rights, it is conceded, cannot be destroyed or impaired under such a reserved power, but it is clear that the
power may be exercised, and to almost any extent, to carry
into effect the original purposes of the grant and to protect
the rights of the public and of the corporators, or to promote
the due administration of the afFairs of the corporation.t
Had it appeared in that case that the amended charter
contemplated the assessment of damages for fish rights
owned below the dam as well as those owned above the
dam, the opinion would certainly be more satisfactory, as in
that event the theory assumed by the court that all the Parties damaged in their fisheries had been indemnified by the
owners of the structure would be correct.[ Fish rights below a dam, constructed without passageways for the fish,
are liable to be injured by such a structure as well as those
owned above the dam, as the migratory fish, if they cannot
ascend to the head waters of the stream at their accustomed
seasons will soon cease to frequent the stream at all, or in
greatly diminished numbers.
Suppose the rule, however, to be correct, still it is quite
clear that it does not control the case before the court for
the reasons given by the same court in rendering the decree
brought here for re-examination by the present writ of error.
Passageways for the fish had been constructed in that case
under the act passed incorporating the company, but they
proved to be unsuitable and insufficient, and the court in
sustaining the views of the defendants rested their decision
upon the ground that the amended charter discharged them
* Sessions Acts 1831, 613.

t Miller v. The State, supra, p. 478.
$ Moulton v. Libbey, 37 Maine, 484.

HOLYOKE COMPANY V. LYMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

from the obligation to reconstruct such fishways, as the
amended charter required them to make compensation for
the injuries to the fish rights in the place of the prior obligation arising from the rules of the common law of the
State and the terms of their original charter, the court holding that the government could not, without any change of circumstances, require the defendants to do the very acts which,
by the terms of the amended charter, they had been exempted from doing, but the court declined to decide whether,
if the fishways provided should prove to be wholly unfit and
inadequate to their purpose the legislature could not by
further legislation require the company to fulfil the original
obligation. Sufficient appears to warrant the conclusion
that no evidence was introduced in that case to show that
the fish rights below the dam suffered any injury whatever,
nor does it appear that the attention of the court was drawn
to the fact that the river across which the dam was built
runs through more than one State.* Different rules perhaps may be applied in ascertaining the power of a State
legislature to authorize permanent obstructions to the free
passage of fish in a river flowing through two or more States,
like the Connecticut or Merrimac, from the rules which
should be applied in a case where the river across which the
dam is constructed is wholly within the State which authorizes the structure, but it is not necessary to consider that
questionjl in this case, as it was not raised in the State court
nor was it presented here by either party.
Fishways have never been constructed by the respondents
in their dam, and they contend that they are not obliged to
make any such provision for the passage of the fish, as their
charter does not create any such obligation; but the answer
which the complainants make to that suggestion is decisive,
that the charter does not contain any provision exempting
them from that implied obligation, which arises in every
such case by the common law of that State, unless the charter contains some provision which expressly negatives that
* Moor v. Veazie, 32 Maine, 353; Veazie v. Moor, 14 Howard, 571.

Dec. 1872.]

HOLYOKE COMPANY v. LYMAN.

521

Opinion of the court.

implication. Even suppose that is so, still they contend
that the fourth section of the charter of their grantors should

be construed as negativing any such implied condition, but
the court is entirely of a different opinion, as that section
makes no provision for any conpensation to the owners of
the fish rights below the dam, and the record shows that such
fish rights, as well as those above the dam, are injured by
the obstruction to the free passage of the fish in their accustomed seasons to the head waters of the river. Authority
to construct and maintain a dam without a fishway, it is
conceded, is not granted in terms in the charter, and it may
be added that the charter does not contain any words to
warrant any such implication. On'the contrary, the terms
and provisions of the charter are consistent with the theory
that the legislature contemplated the construction of a dam
with a convenient passageway for fish, so as not to impair
unnecessarily the rights of the riparian owners either above
or below the dam, and that the legislature, if the company
failed to fulfil that obligation, may "compel them to do so
by more specific legislation." Damages, it is true,. were to
be paid to "the owners of present fish rights existing above
the dam," but the court here, in respect to that matter,
concurs with the State court that the meaning of the sentence is satisfied by regarding it as providing for a partial
interruption and injury of those rights and not as contemplating their utter destruction; that the legislature which
granted the charter may -well have supposed that a dam
across the river at that place, with the best fishway that
could be constructed, would, to some extent, obstruct the
free passage of the fish, and may have intended by that provision to require the owners of the dam to make compensation for such injuries.
Viewed in any reasonable light it is quite clear that the
charters of the respondents do not contain any stipulation
or contract exempting them from the implied condition annexed to such a grant, not qualified by such a contract, that
the corporation in erecting such a dam shall construct suitable and convenient fishways for the free passage of the fish

HOLYOKE COMPANY V. LYMAN.

[Sup. or.

Opinion of the court.

to the headwaters of the river in their accustomed seasons;
and that the charter, in view of the fact that it contains no
such exemption, is subject to the power reserved to the
legislature by the general law, in operation when the charters were granted, that all acts of incorporation shall at all
times hereafter be liable to be amended, altered, or repealed
at the pleasure of the legislature. Such charters being subject to the implied condition to construct suitable fishways
for the free passage of the fish, it follows that the corporations are not exempt from that burden, and that the legislature under the reserved power to amend, alter, or repeal the
charter, may pass laws to enforce that duty, as such a law
does not impair any contract created by the charter or infringe any right vested in the corporation.* Charters subsequently granted must be understood as standing just as
they would if that reservation of the power to amend, alter,
or repeal the same had been incorporated into each charter.t
Power to legislate, founded upon such a reservation, is certainly not without limit, but it may safely be affirmed that
it reserves to the legislature the authority to make any alteration or amendment in a charter granted, subject to it, that
will not defeat or substantially impair the object of the grant,
or any rights which have vested under it, which the legislature may deem necessary to secure either the object of the
grant or any other public right not expressly granted away
by the charter.
Such a charter may doubtless be granted to build a dam
across a river whose whole course is within the State granting the franchise, with a provision exempting the corporation from all obligation to construct such fishway foi the
free passage of the fish, as the enterprise of erecting a dam
to create power to operate mills is so far public in its nature
that it is competent for the legislature to exercise the power
of eminent domain to accomplish the purpose, if suitable
* Revised Statutes, 366; Pennsylvania College Cases, 13 Wallace, 213.

t

Miller v. The State, supra,p. 478.
1 Commissioners on Inland :Fisheries v. Holyoke 'Water-power Co., 104
Masiachusetts, 451.

Dec. 1872.]

HOLYOKE COMPANY V. LYMAN.
Opinion of the court.

provision is made to compensate the owners of the property
or rights condemned under that power, but it may be more
doubtful whether the legislature of a State can make a contract with such a corporation authorizing them to construct
a dam across a river flowing through two or more States,
which shall permanently exempt the grantees from all such
obligation and destroy forever the rights of fishery in the
river throughout its whole course from its source to its confluence with tide waters.
Concede, however, that the power to make such a contract exists, and that it is as boundless as the theory of the
respondents assumes it to be, still the court here is of the
opinion that the decree of the State court is correct and that
it should be affirmed, as the charters under which the dam
in this case was erected and is maintained do not contain
any such exemption from the implied obligation to construct
fishways for the free passage of the fish, nor any provision
which prohibits the legislature from imposing that obligation under the power reserved to amend, alter, or repeal the
charter.
Properly construed neither of the charters affords any support whatever to the theory of the respondents, as they do
not contain any semblance of a grant to take and subvert
the fish rights below the dam, nor is there anything in the
provision requiring compensation to be made to the owners
of the fish rights above the dam, which is not perfectly consistent with the theory that it was incorporated into the charter merely to compensate the owners of such fish rights for
injuries which they would suffer from the obstruction, even
if the customary fishways were constructed as required by
immemorial usage and the express enactment of the legislature.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

