THE LUCILLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

grounds for his action, which would relieve the case of its
apparent hardship, but whqther he had or not, the collector
is protected. This officer had the right to suppose the taxes
were due, and that all proper steps had been taken to ascertain this fact. If he could not rightfully act on this supposition, it is difficult to see how he could be protected in
collecting taxes, when the authority of the assessor to levy
them was given by law, and the precept for their collection
was regular on its face. It follows, from these views, that
the Circuit Court was right in refusing the instruction as
prayed for, and that, on the ground that the collector was
not a trespasser, the judgment must be
AFFIRMED.

THE

LUCILLE.

1. A schooner approaching a steamer coming towards her on a parallel line,
with the difference of half a point in the course of the two, tending to a
convergence, does right when she keeps on her course; and the steamer
is bound to keep out of her way, and to allow her a free and unobstructed passage. Whatever is necessary for this it is the steamer's
duty to do, and to avoid whatever obstructs or endangers the sailing
vessel in her course.
2. Fault on the part of the sailing vessel at the moment preceding a collision (assuming fault to have existed) does not absolve a steamer,
which has suffered herself and a sailing vessel to get in such dangerous
proximity as to cause inevitable confusion, and collision as a consequence.
8. These doctrines-doctrines declared in The Carroll (8 Wallace, 302), and
The Fannie (11 Id. 238)-redeclared and applied
4. A decree of a District Court where interest was not in terms given,
affirmed in this court, April 28th, 1872, with interest at the rate allowed
in the district where given, from its date, Mlarch 12th, 1869; the appeals being considered not well founded.
APPEAL from the decree of the Circuit Court for the District of Maryland, in a case of collision; the facts being
thus:
A little after midnight of December 20th, 1868, the moon
not shining, but the night not being a dark one, the schooner

Dec. 1872.]

THE LUCILLE.
Statement of the case.

Champion, sailing up Chesapeake Bay for Baltimore and
keeping about five miles from th western shore of the bay,
was seen at the distance of two miles on the southeast by the
steamer Lucille going down the bay and out to sea. The
wind was a very light breeze from the southeast; and the
course of the schooner north-by-west, her sails well set on
the port side. The course of the steamer was south-by-easthalf-east, and her rate about seven or eight miles an hour.
In a little while, there being no allegation of any natural
cause for a catastrophe, nor allegation of want of proper
lights, or that they were not seen, the steamer came stem
on, upon the schooner, the steamer's port bow striking the
schooner's starboard bow; the sails of the schooner still upon
the port side, jibing over and injuring the steamer somewhat,
but the schooner herself being "ripped right open, fore and
aft," and going very soon to the bottom with her cargo and
three of her crew; the captain climbing up on the steamer
and escaping with his life.
Hereupon the owners of the schooner promptly, January
2d, 1869, libelled the steamer in the District Court for Maryland; alleging that the schooner had kept on her course in
order that the steamer might pass to her starboard; that the
steamer saw her in abundant time to get out of her way;
that the steamer made no attempt in time to change her
course; that when the schooner saw that there was danger
of a collision it was too late for her to do anything effective
to prevent it, and that the catastrophe was chargeable to the
negligence and mismanagement of the steamer alone.
The answer of the steamer alleged that going on the
courses that the vessels were going, "they would have
passed each other at a considerable distance apart, but that
without any danger prompting, and from pure negligence
and want of care, the schooner, when she was nearly opposite the steamer, changed her course to the westward and
came directly on the said steamer."
The steamer sought to support this view of the case by
the testimony of one of her men, who swore that "when the
schooner struck, she was heading across the bay, her head

THE LUCILLE.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument for the steamer.

toward the southwest;" and by the testimony of her captain, who swore that after the catastrophe, and after the
master of the schooner had got on board of the Lucille, he
said, in conversation, that "he had put his helm hard up,"
i. e., had put it to the windward.*
The schooner, on the other hand, denied that she had
changed her course, except in the moment of imminent
peril and to escape certain destruction; and relied on the
testimony of witnesses for the steamer who testified that
they had noted the change, though they spoke of it as a
change then accomplished-" when the steamer was within
thirty yards of her"-" two minutes before the collision ;"
and relied also on the testimony of seamen from their own
vessel that "the schooner could not have changed her course
so far round as west, as her sails would have jibed and gone
over to starboard," which it was' testified positively they
never did till the collision took place.
The schooner, which had been recently purchased by the
libellants, was not a new vessel, but she had been lately put
into good order by them, and with her cargo, oysters, was
shown to have been worth $2800; and on the 12th of
March, 1869, the District Court condemned the steamer in
that sum. On the 12th of April following, her owners appealed to the Circuit Court, and on the 5th of January, 1871,
the decree of the District Court was affirmed; the decree in
neither court, however, providing in terms that it should
bear interest. On the 14th of January, 1871, they appealed
to this court, and the case was argued on the 10th of April,
1873.
Mr. W. S. Waters, for the appellants, owners of the steamer:
The master of the schooner, after coming on the steamer,
admitted that he had "put his helm up." This put the
vessel on a west or southwest course; and that the vessel
was actually going on this course is proved by a witness
from the steamer, who swears "that when the schooner
* The effect of this, of course, as the wind was from the southeast, would
have been to bring the schooner in contact with the steamer.

Dec. 1872.]

THE LUOILLE.
Opinion of the court.

struck us she was heading across the bay, her head towards
the southwest." The schooner, therefore, instead of keeping on her course, as she ought to have done, changed her
course; and by so doing produced the catastrophe.
Messrs. W. S. Bryan and T. A. Seth, contra:
The case is a plain one, we apprehend, for the schooner.
We have had two decrees the same way on facts. We submit the case to this court, asking it to give us such interest
.by way of additional damages as may compensate us for the
delay we have sustained by the numerous and, as we conceive, unjustified appeals of the other side.
Mr. Justice HUNT now, April 28th, 1873, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The principles of law applicable to this case are well settled. They are not *disputed by either party. In the case
of The Carroll*it is thus laid down: "Nautical rules require
that where a steamship and sailing vessel are approaching
each other from opposite directions, or on intersecting lines,
the steamship, from the moment the sailing vessel is seen,
shall watch with the highest diligence her course and movements, so as to be able to adopt such timely means of precaution as will necessarily prevent the two boats from coming in contact. Fault on the part of the sailing vessel at
the moment preceding a collision does not absolve a steamer
which has suffered herself and a sailing vessel to get in such
dangerous proximity as to cause inevitable alarm and confusion, and collision as a consequence. The steamer, as
having committed a far greater fault in allowing such proximity to be brought about, is chargeable with all the damages resulting from a collision."

The rule laid down in the case of The Fannie,t is still
more applicable to the case before us. It was held that a
schooner meeting a steamer approaching her on a parallel
line, with the difference of half a point in the course of the
two, ought to have kept on her course; that a steamer ap*8 Wallace, 302.

t 11 Id. 238.

THE

LUCILLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

proaching a sailing vessel is bound to keep out of her way,
and to allow her a free and 'unobstructed passage. Whatever is necessary for this it is her duty to do, and to avoid
whatever obstructs or endangers the sailing vessel in her
course. If, therefore, the sailing vessel does not change her
course so as to embarrass the steamer, and render it difficult
for her to avoid a collision, the steamer alone is answerable
for the damage of a collision, if there is one.
The schooner was sailing up the bay, on a course of northby-west, with a very light breeze from the southeast. The.
steamer was sailing down the bay, with a course south-byeast-balf-east, at about seven or eight miles an hour. When
the steamer's men first saw the schooner the vessels were
about two miles apart. The vessels, it will be observed,
were on courses nearly parallel. The half-point of differ*ence tended to a convergence.
Upon this state of facts the duty of the sailing vessel was
to continue upon her course, leaving it to the steamer to
avoid the collision. It was the plain duty of the steamer to
.accept this responsibility, and to assume that such would be
the action of the schooner. The schooner was considerably
to the eastward of the steamer, and it would seem that by
simply bearing a half-point to the west, by which the convergence would be destroyed and perfectly parallel lines
would result, that the steamer could have accomplished the
safety of the passage. If there was any reason why this
could not be done, which does not appear, a bearing to the
-east, by which the convergence would have been increased,
would have carried the steamer in safety across the bows of
the schooner. Neither course was adopted, but pursuing
the middle course, so often the path of safety, but in this
case most injudicious, of remaining on the course of southby-east-half-east, the vessels came together.
The steamer seeks to avoid this difficulty by the allegation that the schooner changed her course, putting up her
'helm, that is, putting it to starboard, and thus throwing the
schooner across the bows of the steamer. This view is
.sought to be sustained by the evidence that the captain

Dec. 1872.]

THE LUCILLE.
Opinion of the court.

stated that he had put up his helm, and that the schooner
was struck on her starboard bow by the port bow of the
steamer. It is argued that this situation could have been
produced in no other way.
We cannot believe that the schooner, bound northerly to
Baltimore, with a breeze from the southeast, would have
been sailing on a southwesterly course. This was quite out
of her direction, and cannot be admitted, and yet it is the
effect of the theory we are considering. Again, if such had
been the course of the schooner it would have thrown her
sails to the starboard, whereas it is proved that her sails
were on the port side, and so remained until the actual collision, when they shifted to the starboard, doing some injury
to the steamer. If the schooner put up her helm, it was in
the moment of anxiety, and to avoid the danger of collision,
which was then imminent. It is quite probable that seeing
the steamer coming upon her, she put up her helm and
sheered to the west, as the best means of escape. The
steamer, at about the same moment, must have put her
helm aport, and thus the port bow of the steamer and the
starboard bow of the schooner were brought together. This
is the natural explanation of the position, and is consistent
with the evidence on the subject.
We are satisfied that no change was made in the course
of the steamer until she was almost upon the schooner, as
some of the witnesses express it, when she was within two
minutes of the collision, as others say, when within thirty
yards of the schooner, and that the collision was the result
of her negligence.
There is no reason to suppose that the damages are excessive. The vessel had been purchased recently, and had been
repaired after the purchase. The value of the vessel and of
the cargo were sufficiently established, and the decree was
within the amount proven.

The decree should be AFFIRMED WITH INTEREST from its
date, March 12th, 1869, at the rate of interest allowed by
the laws of Maryland.

