Dec. 1872.]

HANNEWINKLE V. GEORGETOWN.
Statement of the case.

thority to sell, plainly the plaintiffs had acquired no title.
And if the sale was a fraud upon the creditors of Buell &
Co., the goods were liable to an attachment at the suit of
those creditors. It was an error, therefore, to exclude the
evidence.
The attachment should also have been received in connection with the proof of the unauthorized and fraudulent sale.
It is no sufficient objection to it that it did not itself prove
all the facts necessary to constitute a complete defence. It
is said the special plea averring the attachment was bad.
If so, it should have been met by a demurrer. But we think
the plea contained all the averments essential to a justification, and had the facts set forth in it been established, a
recovery by the plaintiffs below would have been impossible.
There are other errors apparent in the record, but as they
are not properly assigned we pass them without notice.
JUDGMENT REV4RSED, AND A VENIRE DE NOVO DIRECTED.

"ANNEWINKLE

V. GEORGETOWN.

1. A bill to restrain the collection of a tax cannot be maintained on the sole
ground of the illegality of the tax. There must be an allegation of
fraud; that it creates a cloud upon the title; that there is apprehension
of multiplicity of suits, or the allegation of some cause presenting a
case of equity jurisdiction.
2. There exists no such cloud upon the title as justifies the interference of a
court of equity, where the proceedings are void upon their face. Dows
v. The City of Chicago (11 Wallace, 109), affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
Hannewinkle filed his bill against the corporation of the
city f Georgetown and its collector of taxes, to enjoin them
from selling certain real estate for a tax claimed by the corporation under a certain act of Congress, which made part
of the city cldarter. The bill alleged that the corporation
attempted to condemn to public use, and open and improve
Stoddard Street in that city; that the, complainant owned

"HANNEWINKLE V.

GEEoRGETOWN.

[Sup. Cr.

Opinion ofathe court.

certain premises described on that street; that a part of the
premises were condemned to public use, and his damages
assessed at $3139; that the same jury which thus assessed
his damages, assessed him also for benefits to the residue of
his property arising from the same improvements in the sum
of $3425, and attempted to make the assessment a lien and
charge on the said residue, by and for which the same could
be sold. This the bill alleged was without authority of
law and contrary to the act of Congress under which the
city professed to act. The bill prayed that the defendants
might be restrained from selling the property. An answer
was put-in. The cause was brought to a hearing upon an
agreed state of facts, and the bill dismissed with costs. From
this decree of dismissal the defendant now appealed to this
court.
Mr. Sam uel Tyler, for the appellant; Mr. W. A. Cook, contra.
Mr. Justice HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The action in this case camot be sustained. It has been
the settled law of the country for a great many years, that
an injunction bill to restrain the collection of a tax, on the
sole ground of the illegality of the tax, cannot be maintained. There must be an allegation of fraud; that it
creates a cloud upon the title; that there is apprehension of
multiplicity of suits, or some cause presenting a case of
equity jurisdiction. This was decided as early as the days
of Chancellor Kent, in 3looers v. Smedley,* and has been so
held from that time onward. The remedy was held to be
at law by writ of certiorari or by action of trespass.
It has long been held, also, that there exists no cloud upon
the title which justifies the interference of a court of equity,
where the proceedings are void upon their face, that is, the
same record which mast be introduced to establish the title
claimed, will show that there is no title.t
* 6 Johnson's Chancery, 28.

t Heywood v. City of Buffalo, 14 New York, 534; Susquehanna Bank v.
Supervisors Broome County, 25 New York, .312.

Dec. 1872.]

RIGGIN V. MAGWIRE.
Statement of the case.

The whole subject has been recently examined in this
court in fDows v. The City of Chicago.* The head note of
the case is in these words: "A suit in equity will not lie to
restrain the collection of a tax on the sole-ground that the
tax is illegal. There must exist in addition, special circumstances bringing the case under some recognized head of
equity jurisdiction, such as that the enforcement of the tax
would lead to a multiplicity of suits or produce irreparable
injury, or where the property is real estate, throw a cloud
upon the title of the complainant." The sole ground of the
present bill is the illegality of the tax.
We are all of the opinion that the bill states no cause of
action, and that it was properly dismissed.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

RIGGIN

V.

MAGWIRE.

1. The fifth section of the Bankrupt Act of 1841 enacts that-"1All creditors whose debts are not due and payable until a future day, all
annuitants, holders of bottomry and respondentia bonds, holders of policies of
insurance, sureties, iudorsers, bail, or other persons having uncertain or contingent demands against such bankrupt, shall be permitted to come in and prove
such debts and claims under the act, and shall have a right when these debts or
claims become absolute, to have the same allowed them; and such annuitants
and holders of debts payable in future may have the present value thereof
ascertained under the direction of such court, and allowed them accordingly, as
debts in prmni."

Under this section, so long as it remains wholly uncertain whether a contract or engagement will ever give rise to an actual duty or liability;
and there is no means of removing the uncertainty by calculation, such
contract or engagement is not provable under the act.
2. A claim for a breach of covenant that the grantor has an indefeasible estate
in fee in land sold-the claim arising from the right of his wife, yet
living, to be endowed of the estate-is of this character during the life
of the husband.

to the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri.
Magwire sued Rggin in the Circuit Court of St. Louis
County, Missouri, to recover damages for a breach of coveERROR

* 11 Wallace, 109.

