Dec. 1872.]

PRouT v. Rolm.
Syllabus.

paying a tax, levied by the city on the station-house of the railroad, and the property appurtenant to it in the said city. The
principles involved were the same as in the last case, and the
court below granted the injunction, thus holding the property
free from taxation. The city appealed.
After argument by the same counsel as in the former case, the
opinion of the court was delivered by
Mr. Justice BRADLEY:
The principles laid down in the preceding case must be applied to this. All parts of the road and property formerly belonging to the South Carolina Caual and Railroad Company,
and all appendages and appurtenances thereof, are liable to
taxation; whilst all property acquired by the South Carolina
Railroad Company directly under its own charter, And for purposes connected with its original road, is exempt from taxation.
Primid facie the railroad terminus and depot in Charleston, and
the property accessory thereto, belong to the South Carolina
Canal and Railroad Company portion of the joint property.
But if it can be fairly shown that any of the company's property in Charleston, claimed to be taxable, was acquired by the
South Carolina Railroad Company for the accommodation of
the business belonging to its original roads, or for the joint accommodation of the entire system of roads under its control,
such property will, pro tanto, and in fair proportion, be exempt
from taxation.
DECREE REVERSED,

and the record remitted to the Circuit

Court with directions to proceed
IN

CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

PROUT V. ROBY.
1. No particular phraseology is necessary to create a separate estate for a
feme covert. In whatever language expressed, if there is a clear intent
of the parties to create the estate, it is created.
2. A lease of land for a term of years on a ground-rent, fixed, to P. "in
trust for J. M. (a married woman), her heirs and assigns," with a covenant on the part of the lessor that on payment of a principal sum
named, he will, at any time, convey the land in fee to " the said J. M.,

472

PROUT v. Roar.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
her heirs and assigns," cuts off all the rights of the husband in the fee.
The covenant to convey passes to the heir of the woman.
3. In such a case, where the woman dies intestate, leaving no personal representative, and the lessor during the continuance of the lease, without
any proper re-entry or right, takes possession and receives the rents of
the land, the heir of the woman on a bill filed by her heir for an account
and a payment of the ground-rents out of the other rents and an application of the surplus to the payment of the principal on payment of
which a conveyance in fee was to be had, and for a conveyance accordingly, may proceed against the lessor or his heir alone. A representative of the woman as a defendant is, in such a case, no necessary party.
4. Where on a bill by one asserting himself to be the heir-at-law of another,
the answer denies the heirship, and on an issue directed, the heirship is
found, and the court decrees for the complainant accordingly, no objection being made to anything that occurred at the trial and no application to set aside the verdict, this court will not, in the absence of the
evidence kiven before the jury, go behind the decree of the court.
5. At the common law, where a right of re-entry is claimed on the ground
of forfeiture for the non-payment of rent, there must be proof of a demand of the precise sum due, at a convenient time before sunset upon
the day when the rent is due, upon the land, at the most notorious place
of it, though there be no person on the land to pay.
APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia; in which court John Roby, asserting himself to be
grapdson and heir-at-law of a certain Jane Mallion, filed,
A.D. 1865, a bill against Robert Prout (the now appellant),
in order to have an account taken of rents received by him,
the said Robert, from a lot on Capitol Hill, Washington,
D. C., leased A.D. 1820, on a small ground-rent, by William
Prout, ancestor of him, the said Robert, to one Porter " in
trust for the said Jane Mallion, her heirs and assigns," with
a right on the part of her and them to have, at any time, a
conveyance in fee simpl6 on payment of the principal of the
rent; and oil which lot (the said Jane dying A.D. 1852 intestate and leaving no personal representative) the said Robert
Prout, without any such demand on the premises, of arrears
of rent, as gave him a right of re-entry, had assumed to reenter as for a common-law forfeiture; and the bill praying,
moreover, in the event of certain findings, a conveyance in
fee simple to him, the said John Roby, complainant.

Mr. Bradley, for the appellant; 3Mr. Totten, contra.

Dec. 1872.]

PROUT v. ROBy.
Statement of the case in the opinion.

Mr. Justice SWAYNE stated the facts and delivered the
opinion of the court.
On the 14th.of April, A.D. 1820, William Prout, the ancestor of the appellant, leased to Jonathan Porter, as trustee
for Jane Mallion, the premises described in the bill. The
lease was for the term of ninety-nine years, and was renewable for successive terms of that duration forever. Reht
amounting to $25.80 was to be paid at the end of each succeeding year, while the lease should subsist.

It was stipu-

lated that if the rent should at any time be due and unpaid
for the period of sixty days, and there should not be sufficient
property upon the premises wherefrom to make the amount
due by levy, the lessor, his heirs or assigns, might re-enter
and hold the premises as if the lease had not been executed.
It was further stipulated that if Porter, as such trustee, or
Jane Mallion, her heirs or assigns, should at any time thereafter pay to the lessor, his heirs or assigns, the sum of $430
over and above the rents then due, the lessor, his heirs or
assigns, should thereupon execute to Jane Mallion, her heirs
or assigns, a deed of release for the leasehold premises.
There was a further provision that Jane Mallion might dispose of her interest in the premises by will, and that the
will should pass the title which she held, subject to the conditions and requirements of the lease, in favor of the lessor,
his heirs and assigns. The bill alleges that Jane Mallion
left but one child, Mary Ann Roby, her only heir-at-law,
who was the original complainant in this litigation. Porter
died many years before this bill was filed. It does not appear that he left any heir, or that there has ever been any
legal representative. Prout, the lessor, also died many years
ago. The appellant holds title to the leasehold premises by
descent and partition. Upon the death of Jane Mallion,
Vandora Mallion, her husband, who survived her, assumed
the possession and control of the property and received the
accruing rents down to his death, which occurred in February, 1853. He devised all his property, real, personal, and
mixed, to the Reverend Edward Knight, now also deceased.
Knight claimed and possessed the leasehold estate under

PROUT V. RoBY.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.-

the will, and received the rents until a subsequent period,
when he abandoned the possession thus acquired. At a
later period the appellant entered into possession and has
since received the rents and appropriated them to his own
use. The bill prays for an account, that the appellant be
credited with the stipulated rent and the stipulated purchasemoney, and if the rents and profits which he has received
exceed the amount of these items that he be decreed to pay
the surplus and convey the premises; and if the rents and
profits received fall short of his credits, that then upon l5ayment of the amount of the difference, he be decreed to convey. The defendant answered, and testimony was taken by
both parties. The complainant died pendente lie, and her
son and only heir-at-law, John T. Roby, was made complainant in her place by a bill of revivor. The defendant denied
thatMary Ann Roby was the child of Jane Mallion. The
court below ordered this question to be submitted to a jury
in the proper court of law, and that both parties should be
at liberty to -read upon the trial all the depositions taken in
the case pertinent to the issue. The jury found for the complainant and the verdict was certified back to the Equity
court. It does not appear that any motion was made by the
appellant in either court for a new trial, nor does it appear
whether any evidence in addition to that specified in the
order of the court was or was not given to the jury. The
Equity court decreed for the complainant, and the defendant
thereupon removed the case to this court by appeal.
No particular phraseology is necessary to create the provision for a feme covert technically designated in the law as
her separate estate. As in all other cases of instruments to
be construed, the controlling test is the intent of the parties.
That, in whatever language it may be clothed, constitutes
the contract. HIere the meaning is so clear that no room is
left for doubt. The intervention of the trustee and the
power of disposition by will, could have had no purpose but
to give to the cestui que trust the same power over the lease
as if she had been a fene sole, and to place it beyond the

Dec. 1872.]

PROUT v. ROBY.
Opinion of the court.

reach and control of her husband both during her life and
after her death. These facts are irreconcilable with any
other view of the subject. No interest in the lease could
vest in the husband without some act on her part in his
favor. No such act was done. His assumption of control
over the premises after her death was simply usurpation,
and no right or title passed under his will to his devisee.
What he did and what Knight did may therefore be laid out
of view, as of no legal consequence in the case. It is not
shbwn that there is, or ever was, any personal representative of Jane Mallion. The maxim applies that what does
not appear is to be presumed not to exist.
It is insisted by the counsel for the complainant that the
proofs are insufficient to establish the heirship of Mary Ann
Roby. It was competent for the court which tried the
issue, and for the court which ordered it to be tried, to set
aside the verdict and award a new trial, or the latter court
might at the hearing have disregarded the verdict if it were
proper to do so, and it is within the power of this court to
do the same thing.* But it does not appear that the appellant objected to anything that occurred during the progress
of the trial, nor that he took any action in either court touching the verdict after it was found, nor does it appear what
evidence oral or otherwise was before the jury. The court
having decreed according to the finding, we think the appellant should be held concluded, and that under the circumstances we ought not to go behind it in our examination
of the case. The testimony in the record fails to satisfy us
that the verdict ought to be disregarded. The objection
comes from the party called upon to convey, under the covenant of one with whom he is in privity of blood and estate.
If Mary Ann Roby were not the heir-at-law, the true heirs,
whenever they appear, not being parties, will not be affected
by this litigation.
The re-entry of the appellant cannot avail him. If there,
had been a personal representative of Jane Mallion after
* 2 Daniel's Chancery Practice, Metcalf's edition, 1147, notes 8 and 10.

PROUT V. ROBY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

her death, the title to the leasehold term being personalty,
would have passed to and vested in him. There being no
such representative, it fell into abeyance, and has since so
continued. The covenant to convey, passed by descent to
the heir-at-law as if it had been contained in a separate instrument. If there had been a personal representative with
sufficient assets, the heir could have called upon him to pay
the purchase-money.* In that event, the personal representative would have been a necessary party. But the heir
asks no such relief. He proposes to make payment aliunde.
Hence there is no necessity for the presence of an administrator. If the covenant had been to convey, upon the payment of the purchase-money during the life of the lease,
putting an end to the lease would have destroyed the covenant. But the covenant is to convey whenever the purchasemoney should be paid. In such cases the conveyance may
be demanded at any time, and the existence or non-existence
of the lease when the demand is made is immaterial to the
rights of the parties.t But if the covenant were different
in this particular from what it is, and belonged to the class
first mentioned, the result would be the same. The re-entry
was without effect. Connor v. -Bradley and wifet was a case
arising in the city of Washington, under a lease of the same
lessor, and identical as regards the right of re-entry with the
one here under consideration. It was there said that the
statute of 4 George II, ch. 28, was in force in the county of
Washington. Upon examination, that statute is found to
contain nothing applicable to this case. This leaves the
rights of the parties to be determined by the common law.
In that case this court said: "It is a settled rule at the common law, that where a right of re-entry is claimed on the
ground of forfeiture for the non-payment of rent, there must
be proof of a demand of the precise sum due, at a convenient
time before sunset upon the day when the rent is due, upon
* Chitty on Descents, 10, 13, 250; Platt on Covenants, 514; Fry on
Special Performance, 103; Seton v. Slade, 7 Vesey, Jr., 279, note; Daniels
v. Davison, 16 Id. 253, note.
t 1 Shepherd's Touchstone, 169.
: 1 Howard, 217.

Dec. 1872.]

PROUT V. ROBY.
Opinion of the court.

the land, at the most notorious place of it, though there be
no person on the land to pay." The legal propositions thus
stated, are fully sustained by the authorities.*
In this case it is not shown that any demand was ever
made upon the premises. It is in proof that an officer went
there twice to distrain for rent in arrear, and that he did not
find sufficient property to satisfy the costs, but when this
occurred, and what amount of rent was then claimed to be
in arrear, is not disclosed.' This testimony is wholly immateriaL Tf the requirements of the law had been complied
with, or if the appellant had enforced the forfeiture by a recovery in ejeetment, upon tender of the amount due with
interest and costs at the proper time, relief would have been
given; in the former case in equity by injunction, and in
the latter by motion and stay of execution.t Where it is
necessary to take al account between the parties, no tender
need be made before bringing the bill.t This subject was
fully examined in Sheets v. Selden.ยง
. The appellant is entitled to be paid the rent in arrear, and
the amount of his expenditures for taxes, both with interest,
and the purchase-money, before he can be required to convey. All this we understand to be carefully provided for in
the decree of the court below. The directions for taking
the account are clear and explicit. The appellant is entitled
to nothing more.

D)ECREE AFlF!IRMIED.

Coke Lit. 201; B. 1 Saunders, 287, n. 16; Doe ex dem. Wheeldon v.
Paul, 3 Carrington & Payne, 613; Smith v. Whitbeck, 13 Ohio State, 471;
Taylor's Landlord and Tenant, 493, note 6.
t 2 Story's Equity, H 1315, 1316; Wadman v. Calcraft, 10 Vesey, Jr.,
68; Hill v. Barclay, 18 Id. 63.
1 O'Mahony v. Dickson, 2 Schoales & Lefroy, 400; O'Connor v. Spaight,
1 Id. 305.
7 Wallace, 420.

