Dec.

1872.]

MORGAN'S ASSIGNEES V. SHINN.
Statement of the case.

for only four hundred and seventeen square inches. This is
precisely the view on which the decree below is based, and
we think it is correct. But as the difficulty between the
parties originated from the mistake made by the appellee
himself in the construction of his fbrebay and works, he
ought not to recover any costs from the appellants, either in
this court or the court below.
The result is that the decree must be
AFFIRMED, BUT WITHOUT COSTS IN EITHER COURT.

Mr. Justice STRONG, with whom concurred Mr. Justice
DAVIS, dissenting:
I dissent from the judgment given in this case. In my
opinion, it practically makes a new contract for the parties;
a contract to which they never -agreed. It holds that what,
at most, was an expectation of results amounts to a binding
obligation that they shall follow. To this I cannot agree.

MORGAN'S ASSIGNEES V. SHINN.
1. A bill of sale of a vessel, absolute in its terms, may be shown by parol
evidence to be only a mortgage.
2. The facts thatthe bill of sale was recorded; that the vessel was re-enrolled
in the name of the transferee; that a policy of insurance was taken out
in his name as owner, and that no note or bond was taken by him, will
not overcome po-itive evidence that the bill was taken as a mere security for a loan.
3. A mortgagee of an interest in a vessel, not in his possession, is under no
obligation to contribute for repairs which he did not order. The ship's
agents are not his agents, and they act under no authority from him.
And it makes no difference though the vessel be registered in his name.

AIPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia; the case being thus:
The assignees of Morgan, Rhinehart & Co. filed a bill in
the court below against one Shinn, to enforce contribution
to the repayment of advances made by their assignors for

MORGAN'S ASSIGNEES V.

SHINN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the repairs and expenses of a steamer called the Fairfax;
the bill averring that Shinn was owner of one-fourth part
of the vessel, and Shinu by his answer denying this averment
of his ownership, and asserting a mere interest as mortgagee. The question of fact, and one preliminary to any
other question, therefore, was, whether Shinn was in fact
such a part owner? The evidence on the two sides of the
case seemed thus:
1st. Evidence to support the allegation of ownership.
In September, 1855, Morgan, along with three other persons, named Comstock, Savage, and Kelly (Kelly being a resident of Philadelphia), became joint owners of the vessel by
purchase from the government, and she was re-enrolled in
their names as joint owners, on or about the 10th of October
of that year, and made one of a line running between New
York and Washington, called the "Atlantic Steamship Company." The shares of Morgan and of Comstock were held
for the benefit of Morgan, Rhinehart & Co., a firm composed of Morgan, Comstock, and one hinehart. The firm
was also the ship's husband, and as such they made advances
for repairs and expenses.
On the 2d of October, 1865, Kelly made a bill of sale of
one-fburth of the vessel to Shinn; and the bill, at the instance of Shinn, was forthwith recorded. On the 23d of
October, the vessel was re-enrolled, Morgan now swearing
that Shinn was owner of one-fourth of her. And on the
15th of February, 1866, Comstock having insured the vessel
in his own name "for the benefit of all concerned," and the
vessel having been destroyed by fire, Shinn, along with
Morgan and Savage, signing themselves the three "owners
of one-fourth each of the steamer Fairfax," ratified his act.
Of-course, if unexplained, these fiicts would have been
sufficient to prove the allegation of ownership. But there
was2d. Evitdence to disprove the allegation.
It was asserted in the answer that the bill of sale, though
absolute in its terms, was in fact a mortgage given to secure

Dec.

1872.]

MORGAN'S ASSITNES V. SHINN.
Statement of the case.

Shinn for a sum of money agreed to be lent by him to Kelly.
Such was the positive testimony of Shinn himself. The
scrivener, also, who prepared the instrument, testified that
on or about the day of date of the bill of sale, both parties
to it called at his office; that they stated Kelly wished to
purchase an interest in a steamer, and that Shinn was willing to advance the necessary movey.

Some conversation

then occurred respecting the security which should be taken
by Shinn, and it was suggested by one of the parties that a
regular bill of sale should be given to him by Kelly. The
bill was accordingly prepared, together with a power of
attorney from Kelly to Shinn, empowering him to receive
all money due or that might become due to Kelly in the District of Columbia, and to attend to all matters in which
Kelly might have an interest or concern. The amount of
the consideration was left blank in the bill, for it was not
then known how much might be required to be advanced.
Shinn took no note from Kelly for the money advanced;
though when the amount needed was ascertained, having
paid it to Morgan, who was acting in the matter for Kelly,
Shinn took Morgan's receipt as for money paid to Kelly.
But, admitting that Shinn might in fact have been but a
mortgagee, there remained another question of fact. Did
Morgan, Rhiuehart & Co., when they advanced money for the
vessel, know that Kelly was really the owner, and that Shinn
was not? And if they did not so know, then had Shinn in
any manner held himself out as owner, or authorized the
advances, or had they been made on his credit?
Bearing on these points Morgan, one of the firm, testified
that when Shinn paid the money he said "it was money advanced by him for Kelly to pay Kelly's share of the ship."
Certain letters of Mforgan and of Comstock to Kelly were
produced, written in November, 1865, and in the spring of
1866, in which they both wrote to Kelly as owners with
them of the vessel. One from Comstock to Kelly, dated
November 7th, 1865, says:
"The steamer Fairfax is doing wonders, taking everything
into consideration. She is called the flag-ship of the line. We

MORGAN'S ASSIGNEES V. SHINN.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of the creditor.

are now making preparations to organize the company, and we
intend putting the Fairfax in at $50,000. Will this meet your
approval?"

One by -Morgan to him, March 24th, 1866, after the vessel
had been burned, says:
"I must again appeal to you to remit me all the money you
can command. I need it badly. We have had to pay all of the
accounts against the Fairfax as well as the other boats, and
have had but very small return.",
After the steamer was burned, Comstock said she was insured for $15,000, and that none of them, and especially Kelly,
would lose anything by the disaster. He also asked Shinn
to sign a paper for Kelly respecting the ship, and to act for
him by virtue of his- power of attorney; and what perhaps
seemed even more important, Morgan afterwards made an
affidavit stating in effect that Kelly was the owner of onefourth of the vessel.
The court below dismissed the bill, and from this decree
the appeal was taken.
Messrs. J. .M. Carlisle and . D. M1cPhzerson; for the appellant:
The court erred in dismissing the bill, whether the defendant, Shinn, was part owner or merely mortgagee.
I. The defendant was owner and not mortgagee.
1. He took an absolute bill of sale.
2. He caused it to be recorded.
3. He joined as part owner in ratifying the act of another
part owner who had insured the vessel.
4. In the transaction between him and Kelly no note was
given-no agreement made for interest.
IL If the defendant was mortgagee1. He was a mortgagee in possession; for having derived
his interest from a part owner, the possession of the other
part owners was his possession.*
* 3 Kent, 132, part 5,

46.

Dec. 1872.]

MORGAN's ASSIGNEES V. SHINN.
Opinion of the court.

2. As mortgagee in possession he was liable. "The
weight of our American decisions," says Kent,* "has been
in favor of the position that a mortgagee of a ship out of
possession is not liable for repairs or necessaries procured on
the order of the master, and not on the particular credit of
the moriqagee who was not in the receipt of the freight; though
the rule is otherwise when the mortgagee is in possession, and the
vessel employed in his service."
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
We think the averment of the answer that the bill of
sale was intended by the parties to be only a security, is
sufficiently proved. The testimony of Shinn himself is positive. It is confirmed by that of the scrivener, and the testimony of both is entirely uncontradicted. The fact that a
power of attorney was given at the same time with the bill
is also significant. 'Why empower Shinn to collect money
which might become due to him in the District of Columbia, and to attend to his interests, if Kelly then parted with
all his ownership in the vessel? There is no evidence that
he had any other interests in the District, and he was a resident of Philadelphia. It is true the bill of sale was recorded
at the instance of Shinn ; but that was necessary, whether it
was a security or an absolute transfer. It is true also that
the vessel was re-enrolled on the 23d of October, 1865
(Morgan having sworn that Shinn was then the owner of
one-quarter), but the new enrolment did not negative the
fact that Shiun was only a mortgagee. So also, Shinn joined
with Savage and Morgan in ratifying the act of Comstock
in taking out a policy of insurance on the vessel, but that
was not inconsistent with his present assertion that he held
the property as a security for a debt. He took no note for
the money advanced by him for Kelly.
ie could not have
taken one when the bill was made, for it was then not
known how much he might be required to advance. But
* 3 Kent, 134, part 5,
Merritt, 3 Barbour, 207.

45, and numerous cases there cited; Flanders v.

110

M1O1GAN'S

ASSIGNEES V. SHINN.

[Sup.

at.

Opinion of the court.

when the money was advanced, he did take a receipt in
Kelly's name. If in truth a debt was created, the fact that
a bond or note was not taken does not make the bill of sale
any the less a mortgage, though the absence of a bond or a
note is to be considered in inquiring whether a debt was intended.* Nothing in all this, we think, overcomes the positive evidence that the arrangement was a loan rather than a
purchase, and that the bill of sale was intended only as a
hypothecation to secure the loan.
It is not questioiled that an instrument absolute in its
terms may be shown by parol evidence to be only a mortgage.t It is true that if trust and confidence have been reposed in it by third parties, with the honest belief that it
was indefeasible, and such parties have been misled by its
form, they have a right to insist that, as to them, it shall be
what upon its face it purports to be. But there is not even
an allegation in this ease that Morgan, Rhinehart & Co. were
misled. Much less is there any proof that Shinn held himself out to them as owner, or that lie authorized the advances, or that they were made on his credit. On the contrary, the evidence, so far as it goes, tends strongly to show
that the firm knew the real nature of the transaction, and
that they believed Kelly remained an owner notwithstanding the bill of sale. There can, indeed, be no pretence that
Morgan, Rhinehart & Co., did not know from the beginning
that the bill of sale was a mere security for money advanced
by Shinn.
If then Shinn was only a mortgagee of an undivided interest in the vessel, as we think he was, he is under no obligation to contribute for repairs which he did not order. A
moirtgagee out of possession is not liable for repairs.1 The
benefit of repairs enures primarily to the mortgagor. A
mortgagee out of possession does not appoint the master, or
the ship's agents. They do not act under authority from
" Iloyer v. Savington, 1 Peere Williams, 268; Russell v. Southard, 12
Howard, 139.
t Babcock v. Wyman, 19 Howard, 289.
$ 1 Parsons on Shipping and Admiralty, 129, and cases-collected in note 1.

Dec. 1872.]

UNITED STATES V.

SINGER.

Syllabus.

him, and he is not entitled to the-freight earned. Nor does
it make any difference though the vessel be registered in
his name.-,
It certainly cannot be maintained that Shinn was in possession, or that he ever authorized the expenditure that was
made. And as this is a bill, not by third parties who furnished the supplies, but in right of some joint owners, the
ship's husband, against a mortgagee.of another joint owner,
authority from the mortgagee to contract for the supplies is
indispensable to any liability on his part.
DECREE AFrIRMED.

UNITED STATES V.

SINGER.

1. The 20th section of the act of Congress of July 20th, 1868, is as follows:
"That on the receipt of the distiller's first return in each month, the assessor
shall inquire and determine whether said distiller has accounted in his returns
for the preceding month for all the spirits produced by him; and to determine
the quantity of spirits thus to be accounted for, the whole quantity of materials
used for the production of spirits shall be ascertained ; and forty-five gallons of
mash or beer brewed or fermented from grain shall represent not less than one
bushel of grain, and seven gallons of mash or beer brewed or fermented from
molasses shall represent not less than one gallon of molasses. In case the return
of the distiller shall have been less than the quantity thus ascertained, the distiller or other person liable shall be assessed for such deficiency at the rate of 50
cents for every proof gallon, together with the special tax of St for every cask
of forty proof gallons, and the collector shall proceed to collect the same as in
cases of other assessments for deficiencies; but in no case shall the quantity of
spirits returned by the distiller, together with the quantity so assessed, be for a
less quantity of spirits than eighty per centum of the producing capacity of the
distillery, as estimated under the provisions of this act."
H ld, that the meaning of this section is, that in nd case shall the distillar
be assessed for a less amount of spirits than 80 per cent. of the producing
capacity of his distillery, and if the spirits actually produced by him exceed this 80 per cent. he shall also be assessed upon the excess.
2. The law is constitutional. The tax imposed upon the distiller is-in the
nature of an excise, and the only limitation upon the power of Congress
in the imposition of taxes of this character is that they shall be " uniform throughout the United States." The tax here is uniform in its
*Howard

v. Odell, 1 Allen, 85; Myers v. Willis, 17 0. B. 77; 18 Id. 886.

