:Dec. 1872.]

MOSES v.

Tim MAYOR.

Statement of the case.

was improvidently made. It was moved for without authority, or, if with authority, under a total misapprehension of
fact and in disregard of the stipulation entered into by the
attorneys in the cause. Its effect was to destroythe previous
motion for a new trial, contrary to the express terms of the
agreement. It had hardly been made when the counsel who
had inadvertently moved for it, moved for its revocation,
and the motion was granted. We do not doubt the power
or the propriety of that action. The whole record was still
in the possession of the Court of Claims; and the stipulation, showing that the motion for an allowance of the appeal could not properly be disposed of before the motion
for new trial had been heard and determined, was a part of
that record.
We shall, therefore, award a mandamus, requiring the
Court of Claims to hear, entertain, and decide the motion
for new trial, and also the motion to correct the records of
that court, as set forth in the motion to this court, made in
behalf of the petitioners.
AWARD ACCORDINGLY.

MOSES v. Tui- MAYOR.
The rule redeclared, that a decree of the highest court of a State which,
merely dissolving an injunction granted in an inferior court, leaves the
whole case to be disposed of on its merits, .is not a "final decree," and,
therefore, does not come within the 25th section of the Judiciary Act
of 1789 or the 2d section of the act of 1867, giving revisory powers to
this court over final decrees or judgments rendered in certain cases in
such highest court.

ON motion of Mr. -P. Philhyps, to dismiss for want of jurisdiction; the case being thus:
Moses and another had filed their bill in a State court of
Alabama, asserting that a law of that State authorized them,
on payment of a certain sum, to establish a lottery; that
they had paid the sum and established a lottery accordingly.
They now complained that they had been several times ar-

MosEs v. THE

MAYOR.

[Sup. Or.

Argument in favor of dismissal.

rested by the mayor's police, charged with gambling, and
had been thus obstructed in the pursuit of their business.
The bill then prayed an injunction to restrain the mayor,
&c., from interfering in their "carrying on the scheme of
the roulette table and ball, or in the use of the scheme of
the revolving oblong box and balls on the principle of the
game called keno," &c., &c. The chancellor granted the
injunction as prayed for. The answer of the mayor denied
among other things that the complainants had fulfilled the
conditions of the -act under which they claimed the right of
lottery, and asserted that under pretext of its authority they
were carrying on a corrupting system of gambling, which it
was admitted the mayor was determined to put down. It.
insisted that after a default of payment as required by the
act, while it was still due and before it was paid, the legislature repealed the said act under which the complainants
claimed this right to carry on the lottery or "system of
gambling" described in the bill; and further, that the mode
used in conducting this business was unauthorized by the act.
Upon the coming in of the answer a motion was made to
dissolve the preliminary injunction, but this was denied.
An appeal was taken from this order refusing to dissolve to
the Supreme Court of the State, and the order of the chancery court was reversed and the said injunction dissolved.
From this decree Moses and the other took an appeal to this
court, under the assumption that the case came within the
first paragraph of the. 25th section of the Judiciary Act of
1789 (quoted supra, p: 3), or the similar section of the act of
1867 ;* for that the complainants having paid the sum required by the act authorizing the lottery had "a contract"
with the State, and that the subsequent act of the State repealing the former one impaired the obligation of that contract.
Mr. .Phillips, in support of the motion:
1. There is no Federal question.
2. If there be, there is no final judgment.
* See the two acts concolumned, 12 Wallace, 689.

Dec. 1872.]

MOSES v. THE MAYOR.
Argument in favor of the jurisdiction.

As to the first ground. The pretensions of the complainants are under a State act, and their complaint is that certain
trespassers were interfering with their rights under it. The
defence is that the rights insisted on were not warranted by
the true construction of that act, that its conditions had not
been complied with, and that while the default existed the
legislature had repealed it.
The decision of the chancellor extends only to a refusal
to dissolve the preliminary injunction. lie decides no question of Federal jurisdiction.
On this refusal to dissolve, the case is taken to the Supreme Court, where that refusal is overruled and the injunction dissolved. There is here no Federal question decided.
Independent of this is the second ground, that there is no
final judgment. The dissolution of the injunction still left
the bill pending to be disposed of on its merits.
The judgment of the court is particularly invoked on the
first ground for dismissal, as it would tend to bring this litigation to a speedier end.
Messrs. . A. .Elmore, S. . -Rice, and J. T. lforgan, contra:
In MJlanaway v. The State,* the Supreme Court of Alabama
held that the provisions of this law, when complied with by
Moses and his partner, conferred on them the rights of a
contract.
If this is so, the contract is protected by the Constitution
of the United States, and this court cannot be ousted of its
appellate jurisdiction by a decision of tht highest court of
the State that there was no contract, which was what was decided when the decree of the court of chancery giving an
injunction was reversed. Such a rule would exclude this
court from all appellate power in all cases of contract, if the
State courts should differ with it on the fact as to whether
a contract existed, and would place it in the power of the
State courts to shelter their decisions against review, and
enable them, by the selection of the grounds of decision, to
* 44 Alabama, 375.

890

DAVENPORT CITY

v. Dows.

[Su3

at.

Statement of the case.

deny to a person a constitutional right, and also to admeasure and restrict the appellate power of this court. In
such cases the appellate power of the Supreme Court rests,
in a measure, on the nature of the question in the case,
arising on the pleadings and proofs, and the State court
cannot shut the question out of the case, and exclude it from
the cognizance of the Supreme Court of the United States
by ignoring it, or pretermitting all notice of it, or even by
denying its existence.
The CHIEF JTUSTICE:
The motion to dismiss is rested upon two grounds: First,
that none of the questions specified in the Judiciary Act of
1867 were raised in the Supreme Court of Alabama; second,
that there was no final judgment.
As we are clearly of opinion that we have no jurisdiction
of the case for the second reason it is unnecessary to copsider the first. Obviously, there was no final decree. The
only decree rendered in the Supreme Court was that the injunction of the court below be dissolved. That decree was
in no sense final. It left the whole case to be disposed of
upon its merits. This has been frequently decided.
WRIT DISMISSED.

DAVENPORT CITY

v. Dows.

The ordinances of municipal corporations laying taxes cannot be regarded
as the revenue laws of the State from which they derive their power of
laying taxes, within the meaning of the act of June 80th, 1870, which
makes it the duty of the court to give to causes, where the execution of
the revenue 1a=8 of any State are enjoined or suspended by judicial order,

preference, or priority over all other civil causes; and gives to the State
or the party claiming under the laws of the State, the execution of
whose revenue laws is enjoined or suspended, the right to have such
cause heard at any time after docketing in preference to any other civil
cause between private parties.

ON motion to advance on the docket an appeal from the

