524

THE NITRO-GLYCERINE CASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

THE IITRO-GLYCERINE CASE.
[PARROT V. WELLS, FARGO & Co.]
1. In 1866 the defendants, who were expressmen engaged in carrying packages between New York and California, by way of the Isthmus of
Panama, received at New York a box containing nitro-glycerine to be
carried to California. There was nothing in the appearance of the box
tending to excite any suspicion of the character of its contents. It was
received and carried in the usual course of business, no information
being asked or given as to its contents. On arriving at San Francisco,
California,' its contents were leaking and resembled sweet oil. The box
was then taken for examination, as was the custom with the defendants
when any box carried by them appeared to be damaged, to the premises
occupied by them, which were ]eased from the plaintiff. Whilst a servant of the defendants, by their direction, was attempting to operi the
box the nitro-glycerine exploded, injuring the premises occupied by them
and other premises leased by the plaintiff to, and occupied by, other
parties. The defendants had no knowledge of, and no reason to suspect,
the dangerous character of the contents. They repaired the injuries to
the premises occupied by them: Held, that they were not liable for the
damage caused by the accident to the premises occupied by other parties,
2. Comm'on carriers are not chargeable, in cases free from suspicion, with
notice of the contents of packages carried by them; nor are they authorized, in such cases, to require information as to the contents of the
packages offered as a condition of carrying them.
3. Where there is nothing to excite the suspicion of a common carrier as to
the contents of a package carried by him, it is not negligence on his
part to introduce the package, when appearing to be damaged, into his
place of business for examination, and to handle it in the same manner
as other packages of similar outward appearance are usually introduced
for examination and handled.
4. The measure of care against accidents, which one must take to avoid responsibility, is that which a person of ordinary prudence and caution
would use if his own interests were to be affected and the whole risk
were his own.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court for the District of California.

Parrot brought an action in the court below against certain defendants who composed the well-known firm of Wells,
Fargo & Co., express carriers, to recover damages for injuries to certain large buildings owned by him in the city of
San Francisco, caused in April, 1866, by the explosion of

Dec.1872.]

THEI1,ITRO-GLYCERINE

CASE.

Statement of the case.

nitro-glycerine whilst in charge of the said defendants. The
action was originally begun in the State court of California,
and was thence removed, oil motion of the defendants, to
the Circuit Court of the United States, where it was tried
by the court without the intervention of a jury, by stipulation of the parties, under the recent act of Congress.
The complaint contained four counts. The first, was for
technical waste by the landlord againit his tenant from year
to year, based on a statute of California. The waste was
charged to have resulted from negligently introducing an
explosive substance, &c., and treble damages were claimed.
The other counts were for injuries to premises demised to
the defendants, and to the reversionary interest of the plaintiff in premises demised to other tenants, caused by the defendants, by themselves and their servants carelessly, negligently, and improvidently introducing upon the premises
occupied by them, a box containing the explosive substance,
and so carelessly, negligently, and unskilfully examining,
handling, moving, and striking the box as to produce the
explosion of the substance, causing the injuries complained
of.
The answer joined issue on all the material allegations of
the complaint; also set up a lease under which defendants
occupied, and a right to carry on the business of expressmen
in the demised premises; and also averred a repair of the
demised premises, befor-e suit brought, to the satisfaction of
the plaintiff and with his approbation.
The facts of the case as found by the court were substantially these:
The plaintiff, being owner of the buildings injured, let, in
November, 1855, a portion of them-the basement and first
floors with the vaults and banking fixtures therein, together
with a brick warehouse in the rear-to the defendants for a
term of two years from the first of January, 1856. The lease
contained' covenants that the lessees would not receive in
the demised premises, either for their own account or on
storage, or allow any person to place therein "gunpowder,
alcohol, or any other articles dangerous from their combus-

THE NIT O-GLYCERINE CASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

tibility;" that they would, during the term of the lease,
"occupy the premises solely for the business of their calling," which was that of bankers and expressmen, and at the
expiration of their term would "quit and surrender the said
demised premises with all the fixtures therein contained in
as good condition is the reasonable use and wear thereof
would permit, damages by the elements excepted." The
rent stipulated was $12,000 a year, payable in monthly instalments of $1000 each month in advance. The lease was
on two occasions subsequently renewed on the same terms,
once for two years from January, 1858, and again for two
years from January, 1860. After the expiration of the latter
term the preinises were held over from year to year with
the assent of the plaintiff, though without any special agreement on his part, and were thus held on the 16th of April,
1866, when the injuries complained of were caused, the defendants paying rent in accordance with the terms of the
original lease. The remaining portions of the buildiigs-being
mostly rorlionsabove the part occupied by Wells, Fargo J- Co.were at the time let to other tenants.
The premises occupied by the defendants were used by
them for their business, as stipulated in the lease. They
wdre engaged in the business of public express carriers in
the States and Territories of the Pacific coast, and between
New York and San Francisco by way of the Isthmus of
Panama, using on the latter route the steamships of the Pacific Mail Steamship Company, running between New York
and Aspinwall on the Atlantic side, and Panama and San
Francisco on the Pacific side, to convey their express matter,
and transporting the same across the isthmus by the Panama
railroad. In 1866 the steamers left New York on the 1st,
11th, and 21st days of each month, and it was a regulation
of the company that no express freight should be received
at the wharf in New York on those days. On the afternoou
of March 11th, 1866, and after the steamer sailing that day
had left for Aspinwall, a man brought to the wharf from
which the steamer.had taken her departure, a case to be
carried to California, and asked an employ6 of the defend-

Dec. 1872.]

THiE

NITRO-GLYCERINE

CASE.

527

Statement of the case.

ants to receive it for that purpose. The employ6 informed
him that it was too late to receive freight on that day, but
that he could leave the case at his own risk and come the
next day and get a receipt. He thereupon placed the case
on the dock opposite the freight office of the company.
The employ6 noticed at the time that the case had not been
marked or strapped, as required by the regulations of the
company, and called the man's attention to the omission;
whereupon he requested the employ6 to mark and strap the
case at his expense. The case was accordingly strapped as
required, and was marked with the proper address of the
person for whom it was intended in California. Two days
afterwards the man returned and obtained a receipt from
the proper clerk of the company. The case remained on
the dock where deposited till the next steamer left New
York, when it was taken with other freight. At the time
the case was presented it was clean and appeared to be in
perfect condition. There was nothing in its appearance calculated to awaken any suspicion as to its contents. It required strapping and marking, and when this was done it
was in proper condition for shipment. The case was an
ordinary wooden box about two and a half feet square, and
weighed three hundred and twenty-nine pounds. Nothing
was said upon its delivery, or upon taking the receipt afterwards, or at any other time, about the contents of the case
to the defendants, or to any of their employes, nor were any
questions subsequently asked by any one respecting the contents. The case was shipped for California with a large
quantity of other express freight, amounting to several thousand cases, on the steamer that left New York on the 21st
of March, 1866. It was carried to Aspinwall, thence transported over the Panama railroad, reshipped on a steamer at
Panama, and arrived in San Francisco on the 13th or 14th
of April. On the afternoon of the 14th it was taken from
the steamer and placed upon the wharf, when it was discovered that the contents were leaking. These contents had
the appearance of sweet oil. Another box of similar size
had been stained by the contents leaking and appeared to

THE

NITRO-GLYCERINE

CASE.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

be damaged. On the 16th of April, in accordance with the
regular and ordinary course of the defendants' -business,
when express freight is found to be damaged, the two boxes
were taken to the defendants' building, the premises in
question, for examination. The agent of the steamship
company was requested to send a representative to be present at the examination so that it might be determined, if
possible, by inspection, where the. responsibility rested between the two companies for the injury to the case. A
representative of the company accordingly attended, and in
his presence, and in the presence of an agent of the defendants, and of other persons, an employ' of the defendants, by their direction,"with a mallet and chisel, proceeded
to open the case, and while thus engaged the substance contained in it exploded, instantly killing all the parties present,
and causing the destruction of a large amount of property,
and the injuries to the buildings occupied by the defendants,
for which the present action was brought. Upon subsequent
examination it was ascertained that the substance contained
in the case was nitro-glycerine or glonoin oil. The other box
contained silverware.
Nitro-glycerine, according to the account given of it in the
record, in its pure condition, is a nearly colorless substance,
but when impure it has the color and consistency of sweet
oil. It is a liquid which, under some conditions, explodes
with great violence, its explosion being produced by percussion and concussion, and by a high degree of pressure, but
not by contact with fire. If a flame be applied it will burn
slowly without exploding, and if the flame be withdrawn it
will cease to burn. It will also explode upon being subjected
,to a heat of 360 degrees Fahrenheit, and in explosion combustion takes place. When kept in closed vessels it gradually
decomposes, and in decomposing disengages gases, the pressure alone of which may cause an explosion. In this case
the nitro-glycerinein some of the cans in the case had become
partially decomposed, generating gases and producing pressure within the cans and a tendency to explode. In this
condition of decomposition the percussion or concussion

Dec. 1872.]

THE NITRO-GLYCERINE

CASE.

Statement of the case.

caused by opening the box with the mallet and chisel, operating in connection with the internal pressure, produced the
explosion.
The discovery of this substance was first announced at
Paris, in 1847, but, prior to 1864, experiments with it were
confined almost entirely to the laboratory of the chemist.
It was manufactured only in small quantities for scientific
purposes. In that year a gentleman in Europe by the name
of Noble suggested that it might be used for blasting purposes, and in the following year he made experiments with
it, demonstrating its extraordinary power, and succeeded in
introducing it to a limited extent into some of the European
quarries and mines. An account of its properties was also
published duriiig that year in England and in a scientific
periodical in New York. In 1866, a few weeks before the
explosion which has given rise to this case, a shipment of
the article from Noble arrived in San Francisco. Efforts
were making by the consignees to draw public attention to
it for blasting purposes, when the explosion at the office of
the defendants took place. A second shipment from the
from Hamburg
same person to the same consignees, madethe
8th of April,
on
"European,"$exploded
steamer
the
by
1866, at Aspinwall, destroying the steamer and other property. This was eight days before the explosion at the defendant's express office, and the news had not then reached
San Francisco. Iotwithstanding the efforts of Noble to
bring his nitro-glycerine into notice in 1865, and the two
shipments mentioned made by him early in 1866, at the
time the case in question was shipped at New York and received at San Francisco, nitro-glycerine was not generally
known to the public as an article of commerce. The explosions at Aspinwall and San Francisco, and subsequent
ones occurring at Sidney and in England, attracted the attention of scientific men to the subject, and led to more
careful investigation and experiment and to general knowledge of its properties.
The court found that neither the defendants, nor any of
VOL. xv.

34

THE NITRO-GLYCERINE CASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the employes of the defendants, or of the Pacific Mail Steamship Company, who had anything to do with the package in
question, nor the managing agent of the defendants on the
Pacific coast, nor any of those killed by the explosion, knew
the contents of the case in question, or had any means of
such knowledge, or had any reason to suspect its dangerous
character, and that they did not know anything about nitroglycerine or glonoin oil, or that it was dangerous; that the
case had the appearance of other cases usually received in the
ordinary course of the defendants' business, and was received
and handled by their employes in the same way that other
cases of similar appearance were usually received and handled, and in the mode that men of prudence engaged in the
same business would have handled cases having a similar
appearance in the ordinary course of business, when ignorant of their contents, and with similar means of knowledge
as that possessed by the defendants and their employ6s in
this instance; and that there was no negligence on the part
of the defendants in receiving the case, or in their failure to
ascertain the dangerous character of the contents; and in
view of the condition of their knowledge, of the want of
means of knowledge, and the absence of any reasonable
ground of suspicion, there was no negligence in the handling of the case at thbe time of the explosion.
The defendants either repaired or paid for the repairs (to
the amouLt of about $6000) of the pr6mises occupied by
themselves, except a portion of certain repairs made by the
plaintiff, which were necessarily made in connection with
repairs made to those portions of the premises occupied by
the other tenants of the plaintiff, and which the defendants
omitted to pay for by mistake.
For the amount thus omitted to be paid, and interest, the
court gave judgment for the plaintiff, but held that the defendants were not liable for any damage caused by the explosion to other portions of the buildings of the plaintiff,
leased to and occupied *by other tenants.
'To review this judgment the plaintiff sued out a writ of
erro.r from this court.

Dec. 1872.]

THE NITRO-GLYCERINE CASE.

Argument for the landlord.

.lessrs. B. AIl. Corwine and B. B. Curtis(with whom was 3ir.
Quinton. Corwine), for the plaintiff in error:
The question is, are Wells, Fargo & Co. liable for injuries
to those parts of the building not rented by them? We
assert that they are.
L They are liable under the covenants of the lease. They
were tenants holding over, under the covenants of a written
lease, and were bound to keep all those covenants as much
as if the original lease were still running.
One of those covenants was that they would "not receive
in the demised premises, either for their own account or on
storage, or allow any person to place therein, gunpowder,
alcohol, or any other articles dangerous from their combustibility."
So, too, there is the other covenant: "at the expiration of
the said terma to quit and surrender the said demised premises, with all fixtures thereon contained, in as good a condition
as the reasonable use and wear thereof will permit, damages
by the elements excepted." How is a room, or how are certain apartments in, part of, and inseparable from an immense
and splendid structure rendered in as good a condition as
they were, when the whole immense and splendid structure
having been blown to pieces, the room is rebuilt, a separate
thing, with all the rest of the edifice piled up in ruins around
it? Where the demised premises are so connected withso part of a whole edifice-that they can never be restored
in as good a condition as they were, unless the whole be so
restored, a covenant to restore the demised premises in as
good a condition as they were taken, is a covenant to restore
the whole; certainly so where the whole has been destroyed
by the plaintiff's act.
If. But, waiving this ground of covenant, we assert that
the defendants were still liable for all the injuries to the
premises, which they have produced. They were bound to
know the nature of the property which they were introducing into the demised premises. Every person who undertakes a business in which the public is concerned is bound
to conduct it with care, and if for want of that care injury

THE ITITRO-GLYOERINE

CASE.

[Sup. C3t.

Argument for the landlord.

occur, to repair the inj'Ury. Can any one doubt that if this
explosion had occurred on the vessel in which the box had
been, that Wells & Fargo would have been liable for all
injury done ? They had accepted this unknown thing from
a stranger, and they themselves shipped it; for they were,
in truth, the shippers. So here they put it into the demised
premises; no way differing in this respect from the ship, for
they were their own consignees. Public carriers, shipping
thousands of boxes upon steamers where many people are
constantly at sea, without the least means either of preventing accidents which the dangerous contents of the boxes
may produce, or of alleviating the injuries produced by such
accidents, and where nothing but a knowledge on their part
of what they do can protect travellers from catastrophes by
explosion, ignition, and poison, are bound to know what
they do. They put what they please on the ship. No one
supervises them; and they remain on land. Xo promise to
the public-no contract with any one-could place upon them
a higher moral obligation to inform themselves than that
which their business imposes upon them; for they are daily
shipping articles, which may include articles like this, of a
frightful power, easily brought into action, and where, if
their power is brought into action at all, the consequences
are awful indeed. Certainly men exercising such an employment, as do these sort of shippers, are bound to observe and exercise the usual and necessary precautionary
and prudential steps which govern the conduct of every one.
Where the rights of others are so vitally concerned mere
ignorance of the effect of their acts will not excuse them.
What is known to others, even although not of universal
notoriety, they should be presumed to be conversant with.
If they might know the character of property intrusted to
them and neglect to inform themselves, they must suffer
the consequences of neglect. In the reckless disregard of
human life commo,. by land and water in our country, and
where so many lives and so much valuable property are
involved and liable to destruction by the introduction, on
vessels and into storehouses, of dangerous compounds, public

Dec. 1872.]

' THE

NITRO-GLYCERINE CASE.

Argument for the landlord.

policy demands the establishment and enforcement of these
rules.
If, however, the defendants are not to be held to the most
rigid rules of accountability for this frightful catastrophe,
still their liability is absolute, because they were sufficiently
put upon inquiry.
1st. The box was delivered at the dock of defendants, in
New York, at an unseasonable hour and day, and this fact
was remarked upon by the agent of defendants, who likewise called attention to the unsafe condition or fastenings
of the box. Assuming that the person who delivered it was
ignorant of the company's rules qr regulations, the courts
will presume that defendants' agent was versed and practiced in them, and that he was conscious of their violation
when he received and receipted for this box. There was no
explanation offered as to why the box was brought there at
that improper time, nor was any question asked.
2d. The name of the party who delivered the box was not
given, and, so far as the bill of exceptions or the finding of
the court discloses, it was not asked for.
3d. Neither was the box strapped, marked, or weighed.
But, even if the man who received it was inexperienced and
so ignorant that he did not understand the rules, the box
remained with the company two days before the person who
delivered it called for his regular receipt. Thus there was
ample time for the facts to be reported to the officers by the
party who acted for the company in the receipt of it, in
order that he might be instructed as to his course when the
person who delivered it called again. But the shipping
clerk, in the face of these suspicious circumstances, gave
the company's regular receipt for the box to the party when
he called, some days after leaving it. Had these facts been
reported to the officers, it is not at all impossible that the
nature of the contents of this box would have been carefully
inquired into. Each of these omissions was a violation of
the rules of the company. Certainly they were, taken together, suspicious, because unusual circumstances, which
should have put the defendants upon inquiry. That they

THE

NITRO-GLYCERINE CASE.

[Sul). Ct.

Opinion of the court.

did not inquire is only a fact which shows neglect on their
part.
Mr. S. M. Wilson (who argued the case thoroughly on the precedents, -Englishand American), contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the facts of the case, delivered fhe opinion of the court, as follows:
It appears from the record that the court finds, that neither
the defendants, nor any of their employ6s, nor any of the
employ6s of the Pacific Mail Steamship Company, who bad
anything to do with the case of nitro-glycerine, knew the contents of the case, or had any means of such knowledge, or
had any reason to suspect its dangerous character, and that
they did not know anything about nitro-glycerine, or that it
was dangerous. And it also appears that the court finds,
that there was no n.egligence on the part of the defendants
in receiving the case, or in their failure to ascertain the dangerous character of the contents; and in view of the condition of their knowledge, of' the want of means of knowledge,
and the absence of any reasonable ground of suspicion, that
there was no negligence in the handling of the case at the
time of the explosion.
The question presented to us is, whether upon this state
of fl cts the plaintiff is entitled to recover for the injuries
caused by the explosion to his buildings, outside of that portion occupied by the defendants under their lease. For the
injuries to that portion the defendants admit their liability,
as for waste committed, under The statute. Immediately after
the accident they repaired that portion with the sanction of
the plaintiff, and placed the premises in a condition as good
as they were previously. It appears, however, that a part
of the expenses incurred were by mistake paid by the plaintiff in settling for repairs on other buildings. For the part
thus paid the court gave judgment'for the plaintiff under
the first count, and the defendants take no exception to its
action in this respect.
To fasten a further liability on the defendants, and hold

Dec. 1872.]

THE N{ITRO-GLYCERINE CASE.
Opinion of the court.

them for injuries to that portion of the buildings not covered
by their lease, it was contended in the court below, and it is
urged here, that, as matter of law, they were chargeable
with notice of the character and properties of the merchandise in their possession, and of the proper mode of handling
and dealing with it, and were consequently guilty of negligence in receiving, introducing, and handling the box containing the nitro-glycerine.
If express carriers are thus chargeable with notice of the
contents of packages carried by them, they must have the
right to refuse to receive packages offered for carriage without knowledge of their contents. It would, in that case, be
unreasonable to require them to accept, as conclusive in
every instance, the information given by the owner. They
must be at liberty, whenever in doubt, to require, for their
satisfaction, an inspection even of the contents as a condition
of carrying the packages. This doctrine would be attended
in practice with great inconvenience, and would seldom lead
to any good. Fortunately the law is not -so unreasonable.
It does not exact any such knowledge on the part of the
carrier, nor permit him, in cases free from suspicion, to require information as to the contents of the packages offered
as a condition of carrying them. This was ruled directly
by the Common Pleas in England in the case of Crouch v.
The London and Rorthweslern, Railway.* The proposition
that a carrier is, in all cases, entitled to know the nature of
the goods contained in the packages offered to him for carriage, is there stated to be unsupported by any authority,
and one that would not stand the test of reasoning.
In Brass v. Braitland,tit was held by the Queen's Bench
that it was the duty of the shipper, when he offered goods
which were of a dangerous nature to be carried, to give notice of their character to the owner of the ship, the Chief
Justice, in delivering the opinion of the court, observing
that "it would be strange to suppose that the master or
mate, having no reason to suspect that goods offered to him
* 14 Common Bench, 291.

t 6 Ellis & Blackburn, 485.

TnE

NITRO-GLYCERINE CASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

for a general shipment may not be safely stowed away in
the hold, must ask every shipper the contents of every
package."
The case cited from the Common Pleas recognizes the
right of the carrier to refuse to receive packages offered
without being made acquainted with their contents, when
there is good ground for believing that they contain anything 6f a dangerous character. It is only when such ground
exists, arising from the appearance of the package or other
circumstances tending to excite his suspicions, that the carrier is authorized, in the absence of any special legislation
on the subject, to require a knowledge of the contents of
the packages offered as a condition of receiving them for
carriage.
It not, then, being his duty to know the contents of any
package offered to him for carriage, when there are no attendant circumstances awakening his suspicions as to their
character, there can be no presumption of law that he had
such knowledge in any particular case of that kind, and he
cannot accordingly be charged as matter of law with notice
of the properties and character of packages thus received.
The first proposition of the plaintiff, therefore, falls, and the
second, which depends upon the first, goes with it.
The defendants, being innocently ignorant of the contents
of the case, received in the regular course of their business,
were not guilty of negligence in introducing it into their
place of business and handling it in the same manner as
other packages of similar outward appearance were usually
handled. "Negligence" has been defined to be "the omission to do something which a reasonable man, guided by
those considerations which ordinarily regulate the conduct
of human affairs, would do, or doing something which a
prudent and reasonable man would not do."* It must be
determined in all cases by reference to the situation and
knowledge of the parties and all the attendant circumstances. What would be extreme care under one condition
* Blyth v. Birmington Water Works, 11 Exchequer, 784.

Dec. 1872.]

THE NITRO-GLYCERINE CASE.

537

court.
Opinion of the

of knowledge, and one state of circumstances, would be
gross negligence with different knowledge and in changed
circumstances. The law is reasonable in its judgments in
this respect. It does not charge culpable negligence upon
any one who fakes the usual precautions against accident,
which careful and prudent men are accustomed to take
under similar circumstances.*
The case of Pierce v. Winsor,t decided by Mr. Justice Cliffo'd, in the Circuit Court of the District of Massachusetts,
furnishes a pertinent illustration of this doctrine. There a
general ship was put up for freight. Among other freight
offered and taken was mastic, an article new in commerce,
and which was so affected by the voyage .that it injured
other parts of the cargo in contact with it, and caused increased expenditure in discharging the vessel. The court
held the shipper and not the chatterer liable, and observed
that "the storage of the mastic was made in the usual way,
and it is not disputed it would have been proper, if the
article had been what it was supposed to be, when it was
received and laden on board. Want of greater care in that
behalf is not a fault, because the master had no means of
knowledge that the article required any extra care or attention beyond what is usual in respect to other goods."
This action is not brought upon the covenants of the lease;
it is in trespass for injuries to the buildings of the plaintiff,
and the gist of the action is the negligence of the defendants:
unless that be established, they are not liable. The mere
fact that injury has been caused is not sufficient to hold
them. No one is responsible for injuries resulting from unavoidable accident, whilst engaged in a lawful business. A
party charging negligence as a ground of action must prove
it. He must show that the defendant, by his act or by his
omission, has violated some duty incumbent upon him,
which has caused the injury complained of
The cases between passengers and carriers for injuries
stand upon a different footing. The contract of the carrier
* Sherman and Redfleld,

6.

t 2 Clifford, 18.

THE NITRO-GLYCERINE CASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

being to carry safely, the proof of the injury usually establishes a primafacie case, which the carrier must overcome.
His contract is shown, prim facie at least, to have been violated by the injury. Outside of these cases, in which a positive obligation is cast upon the carrier to perform safely a
special service, the presumption is that the party has exercised such care as men of ordinary prudence and caution
would exercise under similar circumstances, and if he has
*
not, the plaintiff must prove it.
Here no such proof was made, and the case stands as one
of unavoidable accident, for the consequences of which the
defendants are not responsible. The consequences of all
such accidents .must be borne by the sufferer as his misfortune.
This principle is recognized and affirmed in a great variety of cases-in cases where fire originating in one man's
building has extended to and destroyed the property of
others; in cases where injuries have been caused by fire ignited by sparks from steamboats or locomotives, or caused
by horses running away, or by blasting rocks, and in numerous other cases which will readily occur to every one.
The rule deducible from them is, that the measure of care
against accident, which one must take to avoid responsibility, is that which a person of ordinary prudence and caution would use if his own interests were to be affected, and
the whole risk were his own.*
And the principle is not changed whether the injury complained of follows directly or remotely from the act or conduct of the party. The direct or remote consequences of
the act or conduct may determine the form of the action,
whether it shall be case or trespass, where the forms of the
common law are in use, but cannot alter the principle upon
which liability is enforced or avoided. In Brown v. Kendall,t
which was before the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, the
action was in trespass for an assault and battery. The deHoffman v. Tuolumne County Water Co., 10 California, 413; Wolf v.
St. Louis Indep. Water Co., lb. 541; Todd i. Cochell, 17 Id. 97.
t 6 Cushing, 295.

Dec. 1872.]

DEITScH V. WIGGINS.
Syllabus.

fendant was trying to part two dogs, fighting, and in raising
his stick for that purpose accidentally struck the plaintiff in
his eye, injuring it severely. The court, Mr. Chief Justice
Shaw delivering the opinion, held that the defendant was
doing a lawful and proper act, which he might do by the
use of proper and safe means; and that if in so doing, and
while using due care and taking all proper precautions necessary to the exigency of the case to avoid hurt to others,
tl~e injury to the plaintiff occurred, the defendant was not
liable therefor, and that the burden of proof was on the
plaintiff to establish a want of due care on the part of
the defendant. In Harvey v. Dunlap,* which was before
the Supreme Court of New York, the action was trespass
for throwing a stone ht the plaintiff's daughter, by which
her eye was put out. It did not appear that the injury was
inflicted by design or carelessness, but on the contrary
that it was accidental, and it was held that the plaintiff
could not recover. "No case or principle can be found,"
said Mr. Justice Nelson, in denying a new trial, "or, if
found, can be maintained, subjecting an individual to liability for an act done without fault on his part;" and in this
conclusion we all agree.
JUDGMIENT AFFIRMED.

DEITS0H V. WIGGINS.
1. The court calls the attention of the bar to the necessity of a strict compliance with the 21st Rule in the assignment of errors; a compliance
which it declared is necessary to the disposition of the business which
now "presses" upon the court. It accordingly passes without any
notice at all a number of errors meant to be assigned by the plaintiff in
error, but which were not assigned in the way prescribed by the said
rule.
2. In an action of trespass de bonis asportatis,where the issue involves the
question as to where the ownership of the property was, evidence tending
directly to show that an alleged sale, which the plaintiff relied on as the
* Lalor's Reports, 193.

