Dec. 1872.]

DEXTER V.

HALL.

Statement of the case.

The CHIEF JUSTICE:
Huntington and Nichols had no interest in the controversy,
and did not appeal to the Supreme Court. The only party
to the decree of that court was the railroad company, and it
is the decree of that court which the writ of -error seeks to
review. It was, therefore, properly brought in the name of
the railroad company alone. The motion to dismiss must be
DENIED.

DEXTER V. HALL.
1. The power of attorney of a lunatic, or of one won compos mentis, is void.
2. When evidence has been given tending to show the insanity of a grantor,
and other evidence tending to show his sanity, a medical expert cannot
be asked his opinion respecting that person's sanity or insanity, forming
his opinion from the facts and symptoms detailed in the evidence.
3 Such a witne.s may be asked his opinion upon a case hypothetically stated,
or upon a case where the facts are certain and found ; but he will not be
allowed to determine from the evidence what the facts are, and to give
his opinion upon them.
4. Under the California statutes of limitations, a plaintiff in ejectment who
has established a legal title in himself, is presumed to have had actual
possession of the land within five years next prior to the commencement
of his suit, unless an actual adverse possession by another is affirmatively
proved.

ERROnR to the Circuit Court for the District of California,
in which court Mary Hall and her four children brought
ejectment against Henry Dexter; both parties claiming
under John Hall, who died intestate; the plaintiffs as his
widow and children; the defendant as his grantee. The
case was thus:
On the 30th of December, 1848, T. W. Leavenworth, then
alcalde of San Francisco, granted to Hall, a lieutenant of our
navy who happened to be in service off San Francisco, a piece
of land, part of the pueblo lands situate within the corporate
limits of the city as defined in 1851, east of Larkin and north
of Johnson Street. The deed was duly recorded before April

DEXTER v. HALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

3d, 1850, in a proper book deposited in the office of the recorder of the county of San Francisco.
Hlall afterwards was sent to a lunatic asylum near Philadelphia. While there he executed, on the 27th of December,
1852, a power of attorney to one Harris, his brother-in-law,
to sell this land. The power was acknowledged in the usual
form before one Broadhead, a commissioner for California,
resident in Philadelphia, who went to the asylum, saw Hall,
read the power of attorney to him, asked him if he understood it, which he said he did, and that he desired the land
sQld for the benefit of his wife and children. Under this
power the land was conveyed to persons, who afterwards
conveyed to Dexter, the defendant.
Subsequently to the grant made by the Alcalde Leavenworth to Hall, the claim of San Francisco to her pueblo lands
was submitted to the United States Board of Land Commissioners, and on the 3d of October, 1854, confirmed. An appeal was taken to the District Court, and thence transferred
to the Circuit Court, where, on the 18th of May, 1865, the
claim of the city to the lands, including the lot now in controversy, was confirmed. And this decree of the Circuit
Court was affirmed by this court, the mandate having been
sent down and filed February 4th, 1867. On the 20th of
June, 1855, a city ordinance, known as the Van Ness ordinance, was passed, by which the city relinquished and granted
all her right and claim to the lands within her corporate
limits, as defined by the charter of 1851, to the parties in
actual possession thereof, by themselves or tenants, on or
before January 1st, 1855, provided such possession was kept
up until the introduction of the ordinance into the common
councils, or, if interrupted by an intruder, had been, or might
be recovered by legal process. The ordinance also declared
that all persons who held title to lands within said charter
limits, lying east of Larkin Street, and northeast of Johnson
Street, by virtue of any grant by any ayuntamiento, town
council, or alcalde of the pueblo after the 7th of July, 1846,
and before the incorporation of the city, which grant, or a
material portion of which, was recorded in a proper book of

:Dec. 1872.]

DEXTE'R

v. HALL5.

Statement of the case.

records, deposited in the office of the recorder of the county
of San Francisco on or before April 8d, 1850, should, for all
purposes contemplated by the ordinance, be decreed to be
the possessors of the land granted, although it might be in
the actual occupancy of persons holding the same adverse to
the grantees. As the lot granted to Hall was within this
description, the ordinance assured to him whatever right and
title the city then had, and confirmed, so far as the city could
confirm it, the alcalde's grant.
Subsequently, on the 11th of March, 1858, the legislature
of the State passed an act ratifying and confirming what the
city councils had done by the Van iNess ordinance, and on
the 1st of July, 1864, Congress enacted that all the right and
title of the United States to the lands within the corporate
limits of the city of San Francisco, as defined in the act incorporating the city, passed by the legislature of California
April 15th, 1851, were thereby relinquished and granted to
the 'city for the uses and purposes specified in the ordinance
thereof, ratified by an, act of the legislature of the State, approved on the 11th of March, 1858, excepting, however, from
the relinquishment certain parcels not included in the grant
to Hall.
Halil died in 1860 in the asylum, leaving his widow already
mentioned, and four children; all minors at that time, the
eldest being twenty years old, the next seventeen, the next
fifteen, and the youngest nine.
In 1866 Mrs. Hall and these children (the youngest not
yet being of age, and suing by a guardian), brought the
ejectment mentioned as this suit.
At the time of the suit there were certain acts of California in force, as follows:
1st. An act of April 22d, 1850,* "defining the time for
commencing civil actions." The 9th section of this act
read thus:
"In every action for the recovery of real property or the
possession thereof, the person establishing a legal title to the
* Statutes of California, A.D. 1850, p. 343.

DEXTER V. HTALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
premises shall be presumed to have been possessed thereof
within the time prescribed by law, and the occupation of such
premises by any other person shall be deemed to have been
under and in subordination to the legal title, unless it appear
that such premises have been held and possessed adversely to
such legal title, for five years before the commencement of such
action."
2d. An act of March 5th, 1864,* "to limit the time for
the commencement of civil actions in certain cases." This
act read as follows:
"In any action which shall be commenced, more than one
year after this act takes effect, for the recovery of real property
situated in the city arid county of San Francisco, or for the recovery of the possession thereof, none of the provisions of the
act entitled, &c., passed March 11th, 1858 [the act already
referred to,t as of that date.-REP.], and none of the provisions
of either of the orders or ordinances therein recited or referred
to, shall be deemed to give, confirm, or otherwise aid the i'ight
or title set up or claimed by any party, unless such party, his
ancestor, predecessor, or grantor shall have had actual possession of the land in dispute within five years next before the
commencement of such action, the time already elapsed when
this act takes effect to be included in the computation."
In this act there was no provision saving the rights of
minors or persons otherwise under disabilities. However,
an act passed April 4th, 1864,1 supplementary to the original act, did make an exception in favor of such persons,
including persons "within the age of majority," and enacted
that "the time during which such inability shall have continued shall not be deemed any portion of the period of
limitation, established in the said act, to which this is supplementary."
Intermediate between these acts was a third one, that of
April 11th, 1855,§ to amend an act entitled "An act defin* Statutes of California, A.D. 1863-4, p. 149.
f Supra, p. 11.
: Statutes of California, A.D. 1863-4, p. 435.
Id., A.D. 1855, p. 109.

Dec.1872.]

DEXTER V. HIALL.

Statement of the case.

ing the time for commencing civil actions," passed April
22d, 1850. This intermediate act provided that
"No action for the recovery of real property, or for the recovery of the possession thereof, shall be maintained unless it
appear that the plaintiff, his ancestor, or grantor, was seized or
possessed of the premises in question, within five years before
the commencement of such action; provided, however, that an
action may be maintained by a party claiming such real estate,
or the possession thereof, under title derived from the Spanish
or Mexican governments, or the authorities thereof, if such
action be commenced within five years after final confirmation
of such title by the United States or its legally constituted authorities."
The plaintiffs having shown Hall's paper title, including
the Van Ness ordinance, and the statutes of California, and
of the United States in aid thereof, having shown also the
death of Hall, and their own heirship under the laws of California, rested.
The defendant then requested the court to charge the jury
that upon these facts he was entitled to a verdict upon the
following grounds:
"That the plaintiffs relied on the grant from Leavenworth,
alcalde, upon the Van Ness ordinance, and the laws of California, and of the Jnited States in aid thereof. That having commenced their action more than one year after the act of California, approved March 5th, 1864, and entitled ' An act to limit the
time for the commencement of civil actions in certain eases,'
took effect, they must show an actual possession of the premises in themselves or their ancestors, within five years next before the commencement of this action, which they had failed
to do."
The court, however, refused so to charge, and the case,
under exception to the refusal, proceeded.
In this further progress of it, certain depositions of persons resident at Philadelphia (in an asylum near which city
it will be remembered that Hall had been confined), were
read; some tending to show that on the 27th December,
1857 (the date of execution of the power of attorney under

DEXTER V. HALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.,

which the land had been sold to the defendants or his
grantors), Hall was sane, and others tending to show that he
was insane. All these depositions being read the defendants
called Dr. Elliot, a physician of San Francisco, who bad
been long in practice, and was still in practice, and asked
him this question (he having read carefully all the testimony
in the case relating to Hall's sanity and insanity):
"From the facts stated in these depositions and the symptoms stated, what, in your opinion, was the state of Hall's mind
December 27th, 1852, as to sanity or insanity ?"
The plaintiffs objected to the witness expressing any opinion founded on the testimony adduced on both sides, and the
court sustained the objection; permitting the witness, however, to give his opinion upon the testimony adduced by the
The witness then stated, under the defendant's
plaintiffi.
to
the ruling, that in his opinion as a medical man
exception
of large experience, from the facts and symptoms detailed
by the plaintiffs' witnesses, Hall was capable of doing business, and of executing a power of attorney before, at, and
after December 27th, 1852, and that such a case of insanity
as his appeared to have been, rarely occurred without lucid
intervals.
The defendant in rebuttal offered to prove 'that he had
purchased the premises in good faith, for a full consideration, and without notice of the alleged insanity of Hall.
But the court rejected the testimony.
The great questions in the case were:
1st. Of fact. Whether Hall was sane or insane, when he
executed the power of attorney.
2d. Of law. If he was insane, whether the instrument
was void or voidable only.
On this last point the court below, having stated that the
presumption of law, generally speaking, was in favor of
sanity, and that whoever set up insanity was bound to prove
it,. said:
"If,at the time Hall executed the power in question, he was
insane, and his insanity was general, the instrument was a nullity,

Dec. 1872.]

DEXTER

v.

"HALL.,

Argument in support of the deed.

and no title could be transferredunder it. In that case the plaintiffs
are entitled to a verdict. It matters not, ifsuch were the case, what
consideration may have been paid to the attorney, or with what good
faith the partiesmay have purchased. The instrument, in such case,
is no more to be regarded as the act of Hall than if he was dead at
the time of its execution."
The' jury found for the plaintiffs; thus finding tOat Hall
was insane.
The case was now here on error, the charge, as just mentioned, as to the effect of insanity, if found, on the power of
attorney, being the great question in the case; assignments
of error being also made in regard to the question which the
court allowed to be put to Dr. Elliot, the medical expert, and
to other matters of evidence, and to the refusal of the court
to direct the jury when the plaintiffs first rested, that the
verdict should be for the defendants.
The case, on the great point of it-the effect of an insanity,
which, after the verdict of the jury, was to be regarded, of
course, as admitted-was interestingly argued, and with a
close examination of the authorities.
Mr. Roscoe Conkling, for the plaintiff in error,and Mr. _P. G.
Galpin, contra.
r the plaintiff in error, reference was made to certain
expressions in Beverly's Case, reported by Lord Coke,* but
more especially to what is stated by Sir W. Blackstone in
his Commentaries,t thus:
"Idiots and persons of non-sane memory. . . are not totally
disabled either to convey or purchase, but sub modo only; for
their conveyances and purchases are voidable, but not actually
void "
Thus the law, as laid down by the great teacher of elementary law, both in England and here, for more than a
hundred years, showed (it was said), that, assuming Hall to
have been insane when he executed the power, the power
* 4 Reports, 123, b.

-f Vol. 2. p. 291.

DEXTER V. HALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the deed.

may have been voidable, but was not void. Suppose (it was
argued) that instead of a power, the instrument had been a
contract for the sale of the land, acknowledged by Hall and
wife, and that the contract had been assigned through Page
to Dexter for value; the same objection would lie against it
as against the power of attorney. But, the consideration
being adequate, and the transaction being free friom fraud
and without notice, a court of equity would enforce it
against both. This is the law as it is to be gathered from
Jackson v. Gumaer,* and Ingrahain v. Baldwin,t with other
cases, in New York; from Somers v. Pamphrey,j Crouse v.
Holman,§ in Indiana; Chew v. Ban/k of Balimore,I in laryland, and from decisions elsewhere in the United States. F
Then, there are certain facts which should be remembered.
1. There was no proof that Hall and Dexter or Hall and
Page ever met, or that Page or Dexter knew of or suspected
the insanity of Hall, nor is there any evidence of unfairness,
fraud, or inadequacy of price. In that case the transaction
stands.*"
2. The attorney of Hall was his brother-in-law. No motive is shown for any fraud or deception by him or by those
who acted in obtaining the power. They were his relatives
and friends.
3. So far as appeared, Hall had not been placed under a
committee, nor had he been pronounced insane by judicial
decision, and if that had not been done, his contracts are
valid, no undue advantage having been taken of him in obtaining them.tt
4. No complaint was made that the consideration was in* 2 Cowen, 5.52.
t 12 Barbour, 9; S. 0., 9 New York, 45.
: 24 Indiana, 231.
19 Id. 30.
1114 Maryland, 299.
Williston v. Williston, 41 Barbour, 635; Kerr v. Purdy, 50 Id. 25;
Cuff v. Dorland, 50 Id. 438; Freeman v. Freeman, .51 Id. 303; Bruce v.
Tilson, 25 New York, 194; Lobdell v. Lobdell, 36 Id. 327; Story v. Conger,
36 Id. 673.
-* Yauger v. Skinner, 1 McCarter, 389.
t Sims v. McLure, 8 Richardson's Equity, 286; Hovey v. Chase, 52 Maine,
804; Parker v. Davis, 8 Jones's Law (N. C.), 460.

Dec. 1872.]

DEXTER V.

HALL.

Argument against the deed.

adequate, or that it was not fully paid by the purchaser.
And there was no allegation of fraud in obtaining the
power, or in executing the grant.
[The other points of the case were also argued, but being
comparatively unimportant, the argument, in the reporter's
limited space, is not presented.]
Forthe defendant in error.-Some confusion exists, perhaps,
at this day in the American decisions as to the effect of a
deed of a bargain and sale made by a person non compos
mentis. So far as it does exist, it has arisen from a passage
in Blackstone's Commentaries, quoted on the other side;
one of the very few errors to be found in that excellent
book; but an error, certainly, nevertheless. The statement
of the law made by Sir W. Blackstone, in the passage
quoted, cannot be reconciled with what is affirmed in
Thornpson v. Leach, a solemn adjudication, made before his
time, but of binding authority in it; reported alike by Salkeld, Carthew, and Comberback.* That precedent was followed, before Blackstone's time, by Yates v. Boen, reported
by Sir John Strange,t a reporter of high character; and the
statement of the great English commentator was not a true
presentation of the law even in his day. His error has been
pointed out in our own time, by Sir Edward Sugden, in his
most accurate and masterly work on Powers;J and though
some American judges, as we have said, have bden confused
(as was not unnatural in view of the great and generally
just respect paid to anything in the Commentaries of Blackstone), we find that when the point was raised in the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania,§ Chief Justice GIBsoN, one of the
vigorous judicial minds of America, took the distinction
at once between a feoffment and a deed of bargain and sale;
holding the latter absolutely void. He said:
"The authorities show distinctly that the feoffment and
livery of a lunatic or madman are not void, but voidable.
* 3 Salkeld, 300; Carthew, 435; Comberback, 469.

t Vol. 2, 1104.
1 Vol. 1, 179.
P Estate of Sarah De Silver, 5 Rawle, 111.
VOL. XV.

2

DEXTER v. HALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the deed.

So far the argument made for the defendant in error seems unassailable. The defect in it is that it fails to prove the deed of
bargain and sale, by which he holds, to be equivalent in all respects to a feoffment. .

. At common law the feoffment of a

madman, as shown by the argument, is only voidable.
deed is absolutely void."

But his

But though Sir William misconceived the law as to the
ability of a person who made a deed while in a state of
lunacy, himself to set it aside, upon the recovery of his reason, he did not at all misconceive it, so far as related to the
person's heirs or other persons interested after his death.
For after stating that the old law had been that the lunatic,
on recovery of his reason, might set up his former lunacy to
avoid his acts, but that this, as respected the lunatic's ability
himself to avoid his acts, had been apparently changed by
later views (though not, as he intimates, upon very sensible
reasons), he adds:
"And clearly the next heir or other person interested may,
after the death of the idiot or non compos, take advantage of his
incapacity and avoid the grant."
Our case is exactly this one, where Sir William says that
the lunatic's grant may be avoided.
Agai.-If Blackstone's statement of the law were true,
there is a distinction to be drawn between a deed and a
power of attorney. The latter will be void when the former
is not. Thus the deeds of infants are not void, but voidable.
If the infant do not dissent within a reasonable time after
coming of age the deed cannot be avoided. A warrant of
attorney has, however, always been held absolutely void.*
The reason is stated in the first volume of the American
Leading Cases.t
As to the authorities cited on the other side, while we
contend that the deed of a lunatic is absolutely void, we also
admit that the privilege of asserting that it is void, is, like
Thompson v.Leach, 3 Modern, 202; Zouch v.Parsons, 3 Burrow,1804;
Pyle v. Cravens, 4 Littell, 17; Lawrence v. INcArter, 10 Ohio, 37.
t Page 254.

Dec. 1872.]

DEXTER

v.

HALL.

Argument against the deed.

infancy, a personal privilege, and can only be enjoyed by
the lunatic and those who claim under him. This distinction alone is sufficient to have decided the cases of Jackson
v. Gurnaer and of Ingraham v. Baldwin.
Chew v. Bank of Baltimore was a case of a bill filed in
equity to set aside the power of attorney of a lunatic, and to
declare certain sales of bank stock made under it fraudulent
and void, and this case certainly shows that if we had
brought an action in equity we might have succeeded.*
Here, as there, it is not shown that the heirs ever received
any portion of the money arising from the sale.
Somers v. -Pamphrey,in Indiana, is decided on the case of
Crouse v. Rolman, in the same State, and the latter evidently
stands on the mistake of Blackstone, corrected by Sogden,
as before shown.
The remaining cases cited are cases where a court of
equity has decreed the specific performance of contracts notwithstanding great lapse of time. We do not dispute the
law contained in them.
It is argued that prior to the issuing of a commission de
lunatico, the acts of a lunatic are binding upon him, though
it seems to be conceded that after that they are not. But
the commission has no effect to render the madman more
mad than he was before. It is his insanity that renders the
act void. The commission may be priinu facie evidence of
madness, sufficient to put one dealing with a lunatic upon
his guard, and it might well be held that a commission
issued was notice to all the world, and thereafter every act
of a lunatic was void. But confinement within the walls of
a madhouse, and chains, and uncontrollable frenzy, are notices equally clear and equally conclusive to every one doing
business with such a lunatic, and shall he be bound by his
acts because he has not the sanity required to procure the
issuing of the commission?
If a man has no reason, there can be no "assent of two
or more minds," which is essential to every contract. The
* See the remarks on pp. 318 and 319.

DEXTER v. HALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

act performed by a person having no reason is absolutely
void. It may not be apparent that the act was void until
the lunacy is proved, but when it is proved to have existed
when the act was done, then the act was void ab initio.
This observation, it may be added, if true, disposes of the
suggestion, made below as here, that we should have proceeded in equity.
[The other assignments of error were then discussed in
behalf of the defendant in error.]
Mr. Justice*STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The prominent question in this case is, whether a power
of attorney executed by a lunatic is void, or whether it is
only voidable. The Circuit Court instructed the jury that
a lunatic, or insane person, being of unsound mind, was incapable of executing a contract, deed, power of attorney, or
other instrument requiring volition and understanding, and
that a power of attorney executed by an insane person, or
one of unsound mind, was absolutely void. To this instruction the defendant below excepted, and he has now assigned
it for error.
Looking at the subject in the light of reason, it is difficult
to perceive how one incapable of understanding, and of acting in the ordinary affairs of life, can make an instrument
the efficacy of which consists in the fact that.it expresses his
intention, or, more properly, his mental conclusions. The
fundamental idea of a contract is that it requires the assent
of two minds. But a lunatic, or a person non compos mentis,
has nothing which the law recognizes as a mind, and it
would seem, therefore, upon principle, that he cannot make
a contract which may have any efficacy as such. He is not
amenable to the criminal laws, because he is incapable of
discriminating between that which is right and that which
is wrong. The government does not hold him responsible
for acts injurious to itself. Why, then, should one who has
obtained from him that which purports to be a contract be
permitted to hold him bound by its provisions, even until he

Dec. 1872.]

DEXTER V. H ALL.
Opinion of the court.

may choose to avoid it? If this may be, efficacy is given to
a form to which there has been no mental assent. A contract is made without any agreement of minds. And as it
plainly requires the possession and exercise of reason quite
as much to avoid a contract as to make it, the contract of a
person without mind has the same effect as it would have
had he been in full possession of ordinary understanding.
While he continues insane he cannot avoid it; and if, therefore, it is operative until avoided, the law affords a lunatic
no protection against himself. Yet a lunatic, equally with
an infant, is confessedly under the protection of courts of
law as well as courts of equity. The contracts of the latter,
it is true, are generally held to be only voidable (his power
of attorney being an exception). Unlike a lunatic, he is not
destitute of reason. He has mind, but it is immature, insufficient to justify his assuming a binding obligation. And he
may deny or avoid his contract at any time, either during
his minority or after he comes of age. This is for him a sufficient protection. But as a lunatic cannot avoid a contract,
for want of mental capacity, he has no protection if his contract is only voidable.
It must be admitted, however, that there are decisions
which have treated deeds and conveyances of idiots and
lunatics as merely voidable, and not void. In Beverly's
Case,* which was a bill for relief against a bond made by
Snow, a lunatic, it was resolved that every deed, feoffment,
or grant, which any man non cornpos mentis makes, is avoidable, and yet shall not be avoided byhimself, because it is a
maxim of law that no man of full age shall be, in any plea
to be pleaded by him, received by the law to stultify himself
and disable his own person. A second reason given for the
rule was, "because when he recovers his memory he cannot
know what he did when he was non compos mentis." Neither
of these reasons are now accepted, and the maxim no longer
exists. There were other things ruled in Beverly's case,
among which were these: that the disability of a lunatic is
* 4 Reports, 123, b.

DEXTER V. HALL.

[Sup. CL

Opinion of the court.

personal, extending only to the party himself, except that it
extends to privies in tenure, as lord by escheat, and privies
in estate, as tenant in tail; but that privies in blood, as heirs,
or privies in representation, as executprs or administrators,
might show the disability of the ancestor, or testator, or intestate. It was also resolved that acts done in a court of
record were not avoidable even in equity. Lord Coke, in
commenting on the case, remarked that "as to others there
is a great difference between an estate made in person and by
attorney; for if an idiot, or non compos rnent q, makes a feoffment in fee in person, and dies, his heir within age, he shall
not be in ward, or if he dies without heir the land shall not
escheat; . . . but if the feoffment is made by letter of attorney, although the feoffor shall never avoid it, yet after
his death, as to all others, in judgment of law, the estate is
void, and therefore in such case, if his heir is within age, he
shall be in ward; or, if he dies without heir, the land shall
escheat." Such also is the rule as stated in Fitz Herbert's
AMalura Brevium.* This is plainly a recognition of the principle that the letter of attorney of an idiot or lunatic is void,
though he may not be permitted himself to assert its nullity.
His heir, and all others, may. The doctrine is also asserted
that as against the heirs of a lunatic his deed is invalid, and
this, we think, has been steadily maintained in England.
In Thompson v. Leach, reported in Oarthew,t and in Comberbacht a clear distinction was taken between the feoffment of a lunatic tdking effect by livery of seizin, and his
deed of bargain and sale, his surrender, or grant. The
former was held to be voidable only because of the solemnity
of the livery, while the latter were held to be void. The
case was ejectment brought by a lunatic's heirs, and the
controlling question was whether his deed was only voidable,
or whether it was absolutely void. The grantor had a life'
estate upon which were dependent contingent remainders,
and he made a deed of surrender. If his deed was at any
time effective before the contingency happened, it merged
* 202, c.

't Page 435.

$Page 469.

Dec. 1872.]

DEXTER V. H4ALL,.
Opinion of the court.

the tenancy for life, and destroyed the contingent remainders, and thongh the deed might afterwards be avoided by
any means in law, yet the contingent remainders, being
once extinct, could not be revived by any matter ex post facto.
It was necessary, therefore, to determine whether the deed
was a nullity or whether it was good until avoided. The
court resolved that the deed was void, ab ini/io, because of
the grantor's lunacy. It was said that "there is a difference
between a feoffment and livery made propriis nmanibus of an
infant, and the bare execution of a deed by sealing and delivery thereof, as in cases of grants, surrenders, releases, &c.,
-which have their strength only by execlting them, and in
which the formality of livery of seizin is not so much regarded in the law, and, therefore, the feoffment is not void,
but voidable; but surrenders, grants, &c., of an idiot are void
ab imitio." The case is a leading one, and it is in some respects more fully reported in Salkeld.* There it appears not
only that the distinction mentioned is recognized, but that
Holt, C.J., declared the deed of a person non compos mentis
to be void; that if lie grants a rent, and the grantee distrains for arrears, he may bring trespass; that his letter of
attorney, or his bond, are void, because, as he stated, the
law had appointed no act to be done for avoiding them.
Thomn pson v. Leach has never been disturbed, and, so far as
we know, has never been doubted. It was followed by the
case of Yates v. Boen, in Strange,t which was an action of
debt upon articles. The defendant pleaded "non estfactum,"
and offered to give lunacy in evidence. Upon the authority
of Thonmpson v. Leach, and Sinith v. Carr, decided in 1728,
the evidence was received.
The doctrine of Thompson v. Leach was asserted also in Ball
v. Mannin,. decided in the House of Lords in 1829. In that
case the sole question presented was, by agreement of counsel,
whether the deed of a person non compos mentis was invalid
at law. In the inferior court the judge had charged the jury
* Vol. 3, page 300; see also 2 Ventris, 198.
f Vol. 2, p. 1104.

1 1 Dow & Clark, 380.

DEXTER V. HALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.
.

that "to constitute such unsoundness of mind as should
avoid a deed at law, the person executing such deed must be
incapable of understanding and acting in the ordinary affairs
of life," and refused to charge that the unsoundness of mind
must amount to idiocy. The ruling was sustained by the
Court of King's Bench in Ireland, and, on writ of error, by
the Exchequer Chamber. The case was then removed to
the House of Lords, and the judgment was affirmed. It is,
therefore, the settled law of England, and it has been since
the decision in Thompson v. Leach, that while the feoffiment
of an idiot, or lunatic, is only voidable, his deed, and especially his power of attorney, are wholly void. And now by
act of Parliament, 7th and 8th Vict., ch. 76, § 7, his conveyance by feoffment, or other assurance, is placed on the same
footing with his release or grant.
Sir William Blackstone, it is true, appears to have overlooked the distinction made in Thorpson v. Leach; and in
his Commentaries,* while admitting that the law was otherwise prior to the reign of Henry VI, asserted the doctrine
that the conveyances of idiots and persons of non sane
memory, as well as of infants and persons under duress, are
voidable, but not actually void. But Sir Edward Sugdent
notices this statement with disapproval. His remarks are
as follows: "When Beverly's case was decided it was holden
that deeds executed by lunatics were voidable only, but not
actually void, and therefore they could only be set aside by
special pleading, and by the rule of law the party could not
stultify himself. And Mr. Justice Blackstone, following the
old rule, has laid down that deeds of lunatics are avoidable
only, and not actually void. But in TIwmpson v. Leach the
distinction was solemnly established that a feoffment with
livery of seizin of a lunatic, because of the solemnity of the
livery, was voidable only; but that a bargain and sale, or
surrender, &c., was actually void. This, therefore, was the
ground of the decision in Yates v. Boen. When the Chief
*

Book 2, page 291.

t I Sugden on Powers, 179; see also Shelford on Lunatics, 257-8-9.

Dec. 1872.]

DEXTER V. HALL.

Opinion of the court.

Justice remembered that an innocent conveyance, or a deed,
by a lunatic, was merely void, he instantly said, that non est
factum might be pleaded to it and the special matter be
given in evidence."
In this country there has been inconsistency of decision.
Some courts have followed Mr. Justice Blackstone, and Beverly's Case, without noticing the distinction made in Leach
v. Thonmpson, Yates v. Boen, and other English cases. Such
are the decisions cited from New York, beginning with Jacson v. Guwaer,* and those relied upon made in other States.
Nowhere, however, is it held that the power of attorney of
a lunatic, or any deed of his which delegates authority but
conveys no interest, is not wholly void. And in Pennsylvania, in the -Estateof Sarah De Silver,t it was directly ruled
that a lunatic's deed of bargain and sale is absolutely null
and void, and the distinction between his feoffment and his
deed was recognized. So .also in Rogers v. Walker,j which
was an ejectment by a lunatic, it was held that a purchaser
from her had no equity to be reimbursed his purchase-money,
or the cost of improvements, and Chief Justice Gibson said:
"Since the time of Thoinjson v. Leach,§ it has been held that
a lunatic's conveyance executed by sealing and delivery only
is absolutely void as to third parties, and why not void as to
the grantor? It was said to be so for the very unphilosophical reason, that the law does not allow him to stultify himself,-an early absurdity of the common law, which was
exploded with us by Bensell v. Clhanellor."j
The doctrine that a lunatic's power of attorney is void finds
confirmation in the analogy there is between the situation
and acts of infants and lunatics. Both such classes of persons are regarded as under the protection of the law. But,
as already remarked, a lunatic needs more protection than a
minor. The latter is presumed to lack sufficient discretion.
Reason is wanting in degree. With a lunatic it is wanting
altogether. Yet it is universally held, as laid down by Lord
Mansfield, in Zouch v. Parsons, that deeds of an infant
* 2 Cowen, 552.
Carthew, 435.

t 5 Rawle, 111.
ii 5 Wharton, 371.

1: 6 Pennsylvania State,, 371.
3 Burrow, 1805.

DEXTER V. HALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

which do not take effect by delivery of his hand (in which
class he places a letter of attorney), are void. We are not
aware that any different rule exists in England or in this
country. It has repeatedly been determined that a power
of attorney made by an infant is void.* So it has been decided in Ohio,t in Kentucky,J in Massachusetts,§ and in
New York.j In fact we know no case of authority in
which the letter of attorney of either an infant or a lunatic
has been held merely voidable.
It must, therefore, be concluded that the Circuit Court
was not in error in instructing the jury that a power of
attorney executed by an insane person, or one of unsound
mind, is absolutely void.
This disposes of the only serious question in the case.
There are other assignments of error, but they may be dismissed with brief notice. The only one which has any
plausibility, and which needs particular notice, is that which
complains of the refusal of the court to permit a medical
witness to give his opinion respecting the sanity of John
Hall at the time when he signed the power of attorney,
basing his opinion upon the facts and symptoms stated in
the depositions read at the trial. The witness was, however,
allowed to give his opinion upon the testimony adduced by
the plaintiftf. The record does not show fully what were
the facts stated in the depositions, nor whether they were
established by uncontradicted evidence. It may be, therefore, that, by the form in which the question was put, the
witness was required not merely to give his opinion upon
facts, but to ascertain and determine what the facts were.
This of course was inadmissible. The rule is, as laid down
in Greenleaf's Evidence, "If the facts are doubtful and remain to be found by the jury, it has been held improper to
ask an expert who has heard the evidence what is his opinion
* Saunderson v. Marr, 1 Henry Blackstone, 75; 2 Lilly, Abridgment, 69;
1 American Leading Cases, 248-9.
t Lawrence v. MIcArter, 10 Ohio, 37.
1 Pyle v.Cravens, 4 Littell, 17.
Whitney v. Dutch, 14 Massachusetts, 462.
"
U Fonda v. Van Horne, 15 Wendell, 636. f
440.

Dec. 1872.]

DEYTER v. ]I[ALL.

Opinion of the court.

upon the case on trial; though he may be asked his opinion
upon a similar case hypothetically stated."* The question
asked was: "From the facts stated in these depositions, and
the symptoms stated, what, in your opinion, was the state of
John Hall's mind on December 27th, 1852, as to sanity or
insanity?" It was to this the plaintiffs objected. But the
witness gave his opinion, founded on all the testimony adduced by the plaintiffs tending to show insanity, and that
opinion was that Hall was capable of doing business and
of executing a power of attorney. He could have said no
more had he been allowed to consider the evidence given
by the defendants as well as that given by the plaintiffs.
The aefendants, therefore, received no possible injury from
the ruling of the court. Hence this assignment cannot be
sustained.
There remains one other exception to be considered, for
the proper understanding of which reference must be made
to The plaintiffs' title.t
That the grants and confirmations relied on by the plaintiffs were effectual to vest in Hall the title to the land in
dispute admits of no question, and it is not denied by the
plaintiff in error. He claimed under Hall. But when this
title had been given in evidence by the plaintiffs below, with
proof that they were the children and heirs of Hall, and when
they had rested in chief, the defendants asked the court to
direct a verdict in their favor for the reason, among others,
that under the State statute of March 5th, 1864, it was incumbent upon the plaintiffs, inasmuch as their action had
not been commenced within a year after its passage, to show
an actual possession in themselves or their ancestors within
five years next before the commencement of the action,
which they had failed to do. The court refused the direction, and correctly. At the time when the request was made
it did not appear that the actual.possession of the land had
* Sills v. Brown, 9 Carrington & Payne, 601.

t See the statement of the title, supra, pp. 10, 11. The learned judge recapitulated it in nearly the same words as there given.

DEXTER v. HALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

not been enjoyed by the plaintiffs within five years next before the action was brought, and, therefore, they were presumed to have had such possession, in the absence of evidence
of an adverse possession, and no such evidence has been given.
The 9th section of the act of April 22d, 1850, which defined
the time for commencing civil actions, expressly declares that
in every action for the recovery of real property such a presumption shall be made in favor of one establishing a legal
title. In addition to this three of the plaintiffs were minors
when the title descended to them, and continued minors until
within less than five years before the suit was brought, and
one was a minor until 1872. The period of their disability
was, therefore, not to be included in the statutory period of
limitation.
It is probable that when the request to direct a verdict for
the defendants was made, the supplementary act of April
4th, 1864, was overlooked. Certainly it has not been argued
here that the plaintiffs below were affected by the act of
March 5th of that year. But it is claimed the plaintiffs
were barred by the statute of limitations of 1855. That,
however, is not before us. The Circuit Court was asked to
give no instruction in regard to it, and none was given.
Besides, so far as the record exhibits, there was no evidence
of continued adverse possession during the five years next
preceding the commencement of the suit.
There is nothing more in the case that requires particular
notice; nothing which would justify our awarding a new
trial.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

