HOLDANE

V. SUMNER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Mr. Justice DAVIS: I concur in* the judgment in this
case on the ground that Brown waived his rights when he
appealed to the confiscation proceedings, and by petition
prayed the court to have the money realized from those proceedings paid over to him; which petition was granted by
the court.
Mr. Justice FIELD dissented from both the judgment
and the opinion.

HOLDANE V. SUMNER.
When a corporation of Louisiana which had leased premises on which it had
goods liable to the landlord's lien, was owing rent (for the payment of
which by the" law of the State the landlord had a right by a judicial
proceeding to seize the goods, and for the space of fifteen days, if they
were removed, to follow and seize them) undertook, in supposed pursuance of the laws of Louisiana which authorize 11any person" to make
a cessio bonorum, to make such cession, and the judge having jurisdiction of the matter of cessions generally accepted the cession for the benefit of creditors, and directed that all judicial proceedings against the
property be "stayed," after which-things proceeding in regular course
-the syndic took possession of and sold the goods, Held, on a contest between the landlord and judgment creditors for the proceeds of
them in the syndic's hands, that although it was finally decided in the
Supreme Court of the State that a corporation was not entitled by the
laws of Louisiana to make a cessio bonorum, and although, accordingly,
the order staying all judicial proceedings was vacated and annulled, yet
that the landlord had not lost his lien by omitting to follow and seize
the goods in the syndic's hands, within the fifteen days after the syndic
removed them; and that although the decision in the first instance, of
the judge staying all judicial proceedings against the property of the
corporation might have been void, as it was finally adjudged to be, yet
as the subject generally belonged to him; as the parties were before
him, and as he had to decide, in the first instance, the question of his
own jurisdiction, his acts were binding till reversed or set aside; and
that, as he was acting judicially in what he did, the landlord was not
bound, in the face of an express inhibition of judicial proceeding against
the goods, to attempt to seize them and thus meet the court with the
issue of the strong hand.
APPEAL

from the Circuit Court for the District of Loui-

siana.

This was a bill in equity filed by Sumner and others, as

Dec. 1872.]

HOLDANE V.

SUMNER.

Statement of the case.

lessors, against Holdane & Co., one Jeffries, and the Bank of
America, to enforce a lien for rent upon certain moneys deposited in the bank, the proceeds of goods which were formerly oi the leased premises, and thereby subject to the
lessors' privilege. The bank was but a stakeholder. The
real defendants were the other parties named, judgment
creditors who had garnisheed the moneys for the payment
of their judgments. The controversy arose as far back as
1859. The leased premises were known as the Belleville
Iron Works, situated near the Mississippi River opposite
New Orleans. The tenants were an incorporated company
known as the Belleville Iron Works Company. The term.
of the lease was ten years, commencing the 1st of January,
1856, the rent being a percentage on the amount of work
done by the lessees, not to be less than $7500 per annum.
At the close of the year 1858 the company was insolvent,
and sought to obtain the benefit of the insolvent laws of
Louisiana by making a cessio bonorum. The existing law on
this subject, which was passed in 1855, declared that any
person may make a cession of his property to his creditors,
provided the surrender be made bondfide, without fraud, and
agreeably to the formalities prescribed therefor. It then
directed that any debtor wishing to make a surrender of his
estate to his creditors must present his petition for that purpose to any judge having jurisdiction. This petition is to
contain a statement of the debtor's affairs, with a schedule
of his property, debits, and credits, and be sworn to. The
sixth section of the act directs as follows:
"That whenever the judge shall be convinced that the debtor
who wants to surrender his property has complied with all the
formalities prescribed, he shall indorse on the schedule that the
cession of all the property of the ihsolvent is accepted for the
benefit of his creditors, and shall order a meeting of the creditors, to be called in the manner and within the time prescribed
for respites; he shall also appoint an attorney to represent the
creditors absent or residing out of the State, if there be any
mentioned in the schedule."
The seventh section enacts:

HOLDANE V.

SUMNER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

"That when issuing the order for the meeting of the credit-

ors, the judge shall order that all the proceedings, as well against
the person as the property of the debtor, be stayed."
The act then provides for the appointment of a syndic to
take possession of the property, and to administer and sell
the same, and contains other provisions regulating the entire proceedings.
In pursuance of this law the Belleville Iron Works Company, on the 29th of December, 1858, presented their petition in due form to the judge of the Fourth District Court
of New Orleans (the proper judge for the purpose), who took
cognizance of the case, and by al order of the same date accepted the cession for the benefit of the creditors, appointed
a time and place for their meeting, and further directed that
in the meantime "all judicial proceedings against the property
of said company be stayed." After this the cause proceeded
in the regular course. A syndic was duly appointed and
qualified, and took charge of the property of the company;
and having obtained an order of sale, the whole property
was sold under his direction by the sheriff, and netted over
$50,000. Out of this money he paid the rent of the works
up to April 1st, 1859, the arrears and interest then amounting to over $14,000. He then made and filed in the court
a tableau of distribution, by which he arranged the claims
against the estate in the order of priority and privilege, and
placed the entire rent to accrue on the lease after the 1st of
April, 1859, being for six years and nine months, amongst the
privileged claims; which, with a few other privileged claims,
largely exceeded the proceeds of the property remaining in
his hands. This tableau was filed May 23d, 1859. It met with
strenuous opposition from the ordinary creditors, and a long
litigation ensued. Suits were commenced by the defendants
and others; and Iloldane & Co. recovered judgments in
the Circuit Court of the United States on May 11tb, 1859,
amounting in the aggregate to over $4000. The other defendant, Jeffries, sued in the Fourth District Court of New
Orleans, and the suit was cumulated with the insolvency
proceedings. These proceedings being finally carried by

Dec. 187-6.]

HOLDANE V. SUMNER.
Statement of the case.

appeal to the Supreme Court of Louisiana, were wholly set
aside, on the ground that the insolvency law was intended
for natural persons only, and that a corporation, like the
Belleville Iron Works Company could not make a cessio
bonorum under it. After this decision of the Supreme Court,
the cause was remanded to the Fourth District Court of
New Orleans, and that court, on the 23d of MIarch, 1860,
made the following decree:
"It is ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the order of the
court, entered on the 29th December, 1858, in the case of The
Belleville Iron Works Company v. Its Creditors,staying all judicial
proceedings against the property of said company, be vacated
and annulled; and it is further ordered, that the plaintiff do
have and recover of the defendant, The Belleville Iron Works
Company, the sum of 83262.86," &c.
The Supreme Court subsequently held, when the case
came up on another appeal,* that the effect of this judgment
was to annul the order of 29th December, 1858, in all its
parts, and to allow the creditors to proceed as if there had
been no surrender, and that the money in the hands of the
syndic remained the property of the company and could be
seized on execution, and did not become the property of its
creditors, by virtue of the cessio bonorum.
The defendants having been thus left at libert.y to prosecute
their judgments to effect, issued executions, and as before
said, garnisheed the balance of money in the hands of the
syndic, amounting at this time to about $11,000, which he
had deposited in bank.
The complainants then, February 23d, 1867, flied this bill
to have the said moneys applied to the payment of their
rent.
The defendants insisted that the complainants had lost
their privilege by not proceeding against the goods themselves, before they were removed from the leased premises,
or within fifteen days afterwards; within which time, under
the provision of the code, the lessor might seize them if
* Jeffries v. Belleville Iron Works Co., 18 Louisiana Annual, 688.

HOLDANE V.

SUMNER.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

there-had been no change of property, and the chattels were
still capable of being identified.
The plea of prescription of three years.
The court below, in which the bill was filed, decided that
the money belonged to the complainants, lessors of the iron
works, and from that decree Holdane & Co., with Jeffries,
the opposing creditors, appealed to this court.
Mr. T. . Durant,for the appellants:
1. The opinions and decrees of the Supreme Court of Louisiana decide that the Belleville Iron Works Company could
not make a cessio bonorum, and that all the proceedings in
the Fourth District Court of New Orleans were void from
beginning to end. With these decisions we have a judgment in our favor on all the points involved in the case, and
fatal in all respects to the hopes of the privileged creditors.
There can be no question of landlord's privilege. Farnet
et al. v. Their Creditors,and Del Campo, Opponent,* shows that
if there be no cessio, and the goods are removed, the landlord loses his lien unless he seize them within fifteen days
afterwards.
2. The landlord did nothing from 1858 till the filing of
this bill, nearly ten years. A prescription runs.
Mr. Conway Robinson, contra:
1. The landlord was prevented from seizing by a judicial
order staying proceedings. This saves his rights; such is
the established rule in Louisiana,t and the rule accords with
the principles of equity maintained in this court and elsewhere.j The case of Farnet et al. v. Their Creditors, and Del
Campo, Opponent, cited on the other side, shows that if there
be a cessio the landlord's lien is not lost.
2. The landlord having been guilty of no laches, no prescription runs. The war suspended all statutes of limitation.
* 8 Louisiana Annual, 372.
t Paulding v. Ketty, 9 Martin, Old Series, 187; Robinson v. MECay, 8
Id., New Series, 106; Dennistoun v. 3Ealard, 2 Louisiana Annual, 14.
t Oliver v. Piatt, 3 Howard, 401; Overseers v. Bank, 2 Grattan, 548.

Dec.1872.]

HOLDANE V. SUMNER.
Opinion of the court.

M'r. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
By the Civil Code of Louisiana, the lessor has for the payment of his rent, and other obligations of the lease, a right of
pledge on the movable effects of the lessee which are found
on the property leased; and in the exercise of this right, the
lessor may seize the objects which are subject to it, before
the lessee takes them away, or within fifteen days after they
are taken away, if they continue to be the property of the
lessee, and can be identified.* This seizure is effected by
means of a writ of provisional seizure, which is issued to the
sheriff 'upon 'the lessor filing a petition in the local court
showing the amount of rent due, or the amount accruing on
the lease, whether due or not, and swearing that he has
good reason to believe that the property will be removed.t
But when the goods are in custodia legis, as where they are
seized by a sheriff under an execution, or are placed in the
hands of a syndic under a cessio bonorurn, the lessor cannot exercise this power of seizure, and does not lose his
privilege by not exercising it, but said privilege attaches to
the proceeds of the property in the officer's hands. This is
the immediate result of the laws directing the proceedings
in such cases, and has been expressly decided by the Supreme Court of Louisiana. Sherifi, on execution, are directed to sell subject to the privileges or special mortgages
on the property sold.t The syndic, under the insolvent law
of 1855, is directed to sell the property absolutely, and to
distribute it according to the priorities.ยง The curator of a
decedent's estate is required to sell the property and distribute it in the same manner. In Robinson v. 3cCay, Carator,j the curator removed the goods from the leased premises, and then, in opposition to the lessor's privilege, set up
that he had not asserted his claim by seizure of the goods.
The court said: "The representatives of an estate can do
nothing which will destroy or impair a claim existing on the
deceased's person or property at the moment of his decease.
* Civil Code, Articles 2675, 2679.

t Code of Practice, Article 287.

Code of Practice, Articles 679, 683, 706, &c.
118 Martin, N. S. 106.
Note to Civil Code, Article 2169.

606

HOLDANE V. SUMNER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

In this instance the removal by the curator cannot have the
effect of destroying the privilege, because the lessor could
not exercise his privilege on the thing subject to it.. The
law makes it the duty of the former to take the property
into his possession, sell it, and after the sale to settle the
order of privileges contradictorily with the other creditors.
The proceeds in the band of the curator represented the
thing. The want of power in the lessor to seize prevented
the prescription from running against him."
It seems that the sheriff may also sell the goods absolutely
upon condition of paying the lessor his rent. If the latter
apprehends any danger of the goods being sold and removed
without hls rent being paid, he may get a rule on the sheriff
to pay the rent, or get out an injunction. In Robinson v.
Staples,* the court directed the sheriff not only to pay the
lessor the rent that was then due but to reserve sufficient to
pay that which was yet to accrue. The exception was taken
in that case that the lessor had not exercised his right of
provisional seizure. But the court said: "It is not well
argued by the plaintiff's counsel that the lessors cannot have
their privilege in this case because they did not make a provisional seizure under the statute. The proceeding was unnecossary, the property being already in eustodid legis under
the fieri facias. Another creditor threatened to absorb by
his proceedings the lessor's security, and if they were not
permitted to protect their privilege prospectively, the security would have been lost." It appears from this case, as
indeed the words of the Code import, that the lessor's privilege extends to his unaccrued rent as well as to that which
is due; but the purpose of quoting it here is to show that
when goods are in custodid legis the lessor's privilege attaches
to'the proceeds without any act of seizure on his part.
But it has been held that if the goods are not in custodiO
legis, or in course of legal administration, the lessor will
lose his privilege, unless he enforces his remedy. Thus, in
Fanet et al. v. Their 0-editors, and Del Canapo, Opponentt the
* 5 Louisiana Annual, 712.

t 8 Id. 872.

Dec. 1872.1

HOLD INE

V.

SITMNER.

Opinion of the court.

lessees becoming insolvent, an amicable meeting of their
creditors was had, at which liquidators were appointed, who
were to take charge of the property and act as trustees of
all the creditors until the will of the foreign creditors could
be ascertained. The property was thereupon removed from
the leased premises and put on storage in another building.
About a month afterwards one of the lessees made a regular
cessio bonornm, and the lessor insisted on being placed on the
tableau as a privileged creditor. The court held that as no
formal assignment was made at the first meeting, it was impossible to give to an amicable arrangement of that sort the
effect of a cessio bonorum, "by which," said the court, "the
rights of creditors are fixed at the date of the surrender.
If formal assignment had been made and possession bad
been given, it might have created an equity in favor of Del
Campo [the lessor] against the creditors who took part in
the assignment, but certainly against none others;" and the
lessor's claim was overruled because he had suffered the
fifteen days to go by without exercising his right of seizure.
Both parties cited this case; the complainants to show
that if there be a regular assignment or cessio bonorum in
form, the lessor's privilege is preserved without his making
a seizure; the defendants, to show that if the assignment is
not regularly made, the lessor must avail himself of the
remedy which the law gives him. In this case a regular
cessio bonorum in form was made; but the Supreme Court
set it aside as unauthorized by the law. The question is,
whether this unauthorized cessio excused the lessors from
following up their remedy, or not. From the authorities
which have been cited from the Louisiana reports, it would
seem to result that the lessor is only excused from making
a seizure in order to preserve his privilege, when he cannot
lawfully make it in consequence of the goods being in custodid legis; in other words, when he is prevented from making it by the act of the law. If, in the present case, the
proceedings taken by the Belleville Iron Works Company
were absolutely void, the lessors were not precluded from
seizing the property; if only voidable, they were precluded.

608

HOLDANE V. SUMNER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

After the decision of the Supreme Court of Louisiana in
the case, the cause was remanded to the Fourth District Court
of New Orleans, and that court, on the 23d of March, 1860,
ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the order of the court,
entered on the 29th December, 1858, staying all judicial
proceedings against the property of the company, be "vacated and annulled;" and that the plaintiff (Jeffries) recover
of the company the sum of $3262, &c. The Supreme Court
subsequently held, when the case came up on another appeal,
that the effect of this judgment was to annul the order of
29th December, 1858, in all its parts, and to allow the creditors to proceed as if there bad been no surrender, and that
the money in the hands of the syndic remained the property
of the company and could be seized on execution, and did
not become the property of its creditors, by virtue of the

cessio bonorum.
This vacation of the original order, and setting aside the
proceedings had under it, does not, of itself, afford an answer
to the question whether the proceedings were absolutely
void or only voidable. Proceedings are often set aside for
mere irregularities. The judge who accepted the cession
had jurisdiction of the subject-matter, and the parties were
before him. The order accepting the cession contained an
inhibition that all judicial proceedings against the property
of the company should be stayed. The defect in the proceedings was, that the corporation was not such a person as
was entitled to the benefit of the law. Could such an order
be disregarded so long as it was not vacated or reversed?
Was it not the duty of the lessors to respect it? How could
they safely issue a writ of provisional seizure when there
was an express inhibition of all judicial proceedings against
the property in a proceeding to which they were parties?
The order of the judge accepting the cession, and inhibiting judicial proceedings, was a judicial act. In making it
he had to decide on the question of his own jurisdiction
over the subject-matter and the parties; and although his
decision may have been wrong, acts done in pursuance of it
were binding until they were reversed or set aside. All

Dec. 1872.]

HOLDANE V.

SUMNER.

609

Opinion of the court..

parties acted on this principle. The defendants complied
with all orders directed to them in the case. When their
actions were cumulated with the insolvent proceedings, they
acquiesced in the' order of the court, and fbllowed up their
rights ii regular procedure by contestation and appeal; and
only proceeded to enforce their judgments when they had
ol)tained a decision of the Supreme Court in their favor,
and a decree of the District Court of New Orleans in pursuance thereof, vacating the original order. Under these
circumstances it hardly lies in the mouths of the defendants
to say that the lessors ought to have disobeyed the order of
the judge, and disregarded all the subsequent proceedings
before they were reversed; and that they should have met
the court with the issue of the strong hand.
But without relying on this equitable aspect of the case
arising from the respect due to the solemn acts of a judicial
tribunal, and the conduct of all the parties concerned, there
seems to be no sound technical reason for regarding the act
of the judge in making the order of December 29th, 1858,
as absolutely void. He had jurisdiction, both of the subjectmatter and of the parties; but the principal party, the applying debtor, was incapacitated to sue for the relief afforded
by the law. Being a corporation, though a "person" ' in
the legal sense of the term, it was not embraced within the
intent and meaning of the insolvent law. Is this anything
more than the common case of a party instituting a suit in
court who turns out to have no legal standing in the court?
And yet no one would assert that this predicament renders
the entire proceedings absolutely void, and the court and all
its officers trespassers. If a married woman brings an action in her own name, without joining her husband, the
proceeding is not void, although the defe6t may be pleaded
in bar, or set up as a defence on the trial.
Without pursuing the subject further, it suffices to say
that, in our judgment, the lessors, under the circumstances
of this case, were properly excused from making a seizure
of the property of the Belleville Iron Works Company as a
means of retaining their privilege for the rent accruing on
VOL. XV.
39

GUNN

v.

BARR Y.

[Sup.

Ct.

Syllabus.

the lease, and that said privilege attached to the proceeds of
said property in the hands of the syndic.
The plea of prescription cannot be sustained in this case,
iuasmuch as the bill was filed in Februai'y, 1867; and we
have lately held, in the case of Adger v. Alston,* that all
statutes of prescription and limitation were suspended, at
least in the Federal courts, during the period of the late
civil war, which was not solenily determined in Louisiana
until the President's proclamation of April 2d, 1866.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

GUNN V. BARRY.
An exemption law of Georgia, passed several years ago, exempted from
execution in favor of each head of a family, "fifty acres of land, and
five additional ones for each of his children under the age of 16 years,
the land to include the dwelling-house and improvements if the same
do not exceed $200," and exempted many other things, chiefly household furniture, wearing apparel, books, family portraits, &c.; the value
of which was not limited, and which might vary with different debtors
and their families. With that law in force A. obtained a judgment for
$531 against 13., who had 272 acres of land, worth $1300, and had no
other property but land worth $100, from which the judgment could be
satisfied. In this state of things Georgia having passed an "ordinance of
secession," withdrew her senators and representatives from the Congress
of the United States, and went into the rebellion. The rebellion being
suppressed, but Georgia not being allowed by Congress yet to send senators and representatives to its sessions, Congress passed what was known
as the Reconstruction Act. This act reciting that "no legal State government or adequate protection for life or property now existed in the
rebel State of Georgia," authorized the said State to make a constitution, which being submitted to Congress and approved by it, the State
was to be entitled to representation. The people of the State did accordingly make a new constitution and submit it to Congress. This new
constitution provided that "each head of a family should be entitled to
a homestead of realty to the value of $2000 in specie, and personal property to the value of $1000 in specie, to be valued at the time they are
set apart;" and ordained further that"No court or ministerial officer in the State shall ever have jurisdiction or
* Supra, p. 555.

