Dec. 1872.]

MEAD V. THozPSON.
Statement of the case.

In the case hefore him he decreed an account upon these
principles, for a period of fifteen years.
The present action was commenced by Mrs. Gaines nearly
seventeen years ago. It was a bill in equity praying for a
discovery, for an accounting for rents and profits, and for
general relief. After much tribulation she has reached the
point of an accounting, which the defendant has brought
before us on appeal. We think there is no prescription of
the rents and profits, but that the allowance in this respect
was properly made.
Upon the whole case we are of the opinion that the decree or order upon the master's report must be affirmed,
and the
EXCEPTIONS THERETO DISALLOWED.

MEAD V. THOMPSON.
1. If a petition to the Circuit Court to re-examine a decree of the District
Court in Bankruptcy, pray the court to "'review" and reverse that decree and "to grant such further order and relief as may seem just," the
jurisdiction invoked must be regarded as the supervisory jurisdiction
which is allowed to Circuit Courts acting as courts of equity by the
second section of the Bankrupt Act.
2. From the action of the Circuit Court in the exercise of such jurisdiction
no appeal lies to this court.

THis was a motion of Mr. A. J. Parker,for John Thompson, a banrupt, to dismiss two appeals by his creditors from
a decree.of the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
New York, affirming a decree of discharge granted to him
by the District Court.
The case was thus:
The "Act to establish a uniform sjstem of Bankruptcy
throughout the United States," approved March 2d, 1867,
which gives to the District Courts exclusive original jurisdiction in matters of bankruptcy, enacts by its"SECTION 2. That the several Circuit Courts . ..within and

MEAD

v. THOmPSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

for the districts where the proceedings in bankruptcy shall be
pending, shall have a general superintendenceand jurisdiction in
all cases and questions, arisingunder the act; and may . . . upon
bill, petition, or other process of any party aggrieved hear and
determine the case as a court of equity."
By the 8th section it is enacted:
"That appeals may be taken from the District Courts to the
Circuit Courts in all cases in equity, and writs of error may be
allowed to said Circuit Courts in cases at law, under the jurisdiction created by this act, when the debt or damages claimed
amount to more than $500; and any supposed creditor may appeal whose claim is wholly or in part rejected, or an assignee
who is dissatisfied with the allowance of a claim."
And by the 9th section:
"That in cases arising under this act no appeal or writ of
error shall be allowed in any case- from the Circuit Courts to
the Supreme Court of the United States, unless the matter in
dispute exceeds $2000."
This act being in force, John Thompson applied to the
District Court for the Southern District of New York to be
discharged from his debts as a bankrupt. One E. F. Mead,
and also the Merchants' Exchange National Bank, opposed
his discharge. The District Court, however, granted it.
This was on the 14th June, 1869. On the 24th, following,
Mead gave notice to the bankrupt that he thereby "appealed" to the Circuit Court from the decree of the District
Court granting the discharge. And on the 3d of July he
entered into the usual bond (which on the same'day was
filed and served by a copy), reciting that whereas he had
"appealed to the Circuit Court, &c., to reverse the decision
rendered . . . by the judge of the District Court, &c., and

the order entered thereupon in said court granting a discharge," and binding himself to "prosecute said appeal" to
effect, &c. On the 24th he filed his petition'to the Circuit
Court, setting forth Thompson's application for a discharge,
his (Mead's) opposition, setting forth also the "specification

Dec. 1872.]

MEAD

v. THoxPsoN.

Statement of the case.

of his objections to said discharge "-a paper that had been
put before the register in bankruptcy, and alleging fraudulent conveyances by Thompson of various items of property
to his sons, &c.,-representing that his (Mead's) debt, proved
before the register, was more than $500, and praying the
Circuit judge "to review the said decision and reverse the
same . . . and decree that the said bankrupt is not entitled
to his discharge . . . and for such further order and relief in
the premises as to the court may seem just."
Similar proceedings, it was assumed, took place on the
part of the Merchants' Exchange National Bank; though
no petition-appeared in the transcript of the record.
The petitions were beard together in the Circuit Court
when, April 13th, 1871, this order was there made:
"The petitions of E. F. Mead, by E. N. Taft, Esquire, his
solicitor, and the Merchants' Exchange National Bank, by -.
A. Seixas, Esquire, their solicitor, creditors of the said John
Thompson, bankrupt,for a reviezo of the order granted by the
United States District Court for the Southern District of New
York, on the 14th day of June, 1869, declaring said bankrupt
forever discharged from all his debts, provable under the act of
Congress entitled 'An act to establish a uniform system of
Bankruptcy throughout the United States,' approved March 2d,
1867, having been brought to a hearing before this court, after
hearing E. N. Taft and G. A. Seixas, in behalf of said creditors,
respectively, and E. More, of counsel for said bankrupt, it is ordered and adjudged that the said order, entered in the said District Court, declaring the said John Thompson, bankrupt, discharged from all his debts as aforesaid, be, and the same hereby
is, in all things affirmed.
"L.

B. WOODRUFF,
"Circuit Judge."

From this affirmation of the decree of discharge, Mead
and the bank appealed to this court, and their appeals it
was that Mr. Parker moved to dismiss.
.

srs. E. More and A. J. Parker,in support of the motion;

Mr. R. D. Benedict, contra.

638

MEAD V. TioMPsoN.

[Sup. CL

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
In Morgan v. Thornhill,* and in -Hallv. Allen,t it was held
that no appeal lies to this court from a decree of a Circuit
Court, made in the exercise of the supervisory jurisdicion
conferred upon it by the second section of the Bankrupt
Act of March 2d, 1867. If, then, the decree from which
these appeals have been taken was made in the exercise of
that jurisdiction, they are unauthorized, and they must be
dismissed. And that they were thus made is very plainly
exhibited in the record. The order of the District Court
discharging the bankrupt, was made on the 14th day of
June, 1869, and on the 24th of that month, Mead, one of
the present appellants, filed in the office of the clerk of that
court, a notice that he did thereby appeal from the order of
the Circuit Court. This was followed by a bond for costs,
which was filed and served by copy on the 3d of July, and
on the same day a petition for.review of the order of the
District judge was verified and served. The prayer of the
petition was that the Circuit judge would review the decision of the District judge and reverse the same, and grant
such further order or relief as might seem just.
Whatever may have been intended, on the 24th day of
June, when the notice of an appeal was given, it is plain
that the appellant sought relief afterwards only by his petition of review under the first clause of the second section
of the act.
And the same remark may be made respecting the Merchants' Exchange National Bank, of New York, the other
appellants to this court. Indeed, the record exhibits no
notice given by them of an intention to appeal from the
order of the District Court, nor even any petition for a review. It is intimated, however, in the proceedings of the
Circuit Court, that such a petition was presented, and it
may be assumed to have been a fact.
The present appellants then came before the Circuit
Court, not as appellants from the order of discharge made
:* 11 "Wallace, 65.

t12 Id. 452.

Dec. 1872.]

COMMERCIAL BANK V. ROCHESTER.
Statement of the case.

by the District judge, but as applicants for the general
superintending power of the Circuit Court over all questions arising under the Bankrupt Act; merely as petitioners
for that revision which we have held to be final. And only
that revisory jurisdiction was exercised. This is evident
from the decision of the Circuit Court, made April 13th,
1871, from which these appeals have been taken.*
Whether, if appeals had been taken from the District
Court and prosecuted in the Circuit Court, and if the Circuit Court had heard and decided them, an appeal would
lie to this court, need not now be determined, for we have
no such case before us. The present, being appeals from a
decision made by the Circuit Court in the exercise of its
supervisory jurisdiction, cannot be entertained.
APPEALS DISMISSED.

COMMERCIAL BANK V. ROCHESTER.
Where the court perceives from the pleadings themselves that a case may
have been decided on the form of remedy which the practice in the
State courts required the plaintiff to adopt, or on the technical insufficiency of the pleading-and especially where it perceives this more
plainly from reported decisions in the State courts-jurisdiction of the
case will not be entertained under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act,
though the court can also perceive that the case might have been decided on grounds which would have brought it within that section, and
which, therefore, would have given to the court jurisdiction.

to the Supreme Court of the State of New York.
The Commercial Bank of Rochester brought suit in one of
the State courts of New York against the city of Rochester,
to recover a tax which the said city had levied and collected
on $100,000 of the capital of the bank, which was invested
in the bonds of the United States. The petition set out the
bank's ownership of these bonds; the incorporation of the
ERROR

* Quoted supra, p. 637.-REP.

