PENNYWIT V. EATON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

PENNY WIT v. EATON.
[ON MOTION.]
The court refused to dismiss, for want of jurisdiction, a case brought here as
within the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, when they could see a
Federal question raised under it, though raised somewhat obscurely; and
though they had "a very clear conviction" that the decision of the State
court was correct, so clear indeed that as it finally turned out (see infra,
next case) they affirmed it with 10 per cent. damages, because any writ
of error could have been prosecuted only for delay.

ON motion to dismiss, for want of jurisdiction, a writ of
error to the Supreme Court of Arkansas.
Eaton sued Pennywit in the Pulaski County Court of Arkansas upon the record of ajudgment rendered by the Fourth
District. Court of New Orleans, that court, when the judgment was rendered, having been held by a judge appointed by a
military governor of Louisiana. On the trial in the Pulaski
County Court, the court was requested by the defendant to
hold, that if it appeared from the evidence that the judge
who presided in the court at New Orleans and rendered the
judgment, held his office by appointment of a military governor of the State of Louisiana, and under no other authority, the judgment was void. But the Pulaski County
Court did not so hold, but held to the contrary; and the
Supreme Court of Arkansas affirmed its judgment. The
case was now brought here under an assumption that it
came within the third clause of the 25th section of the Judiciary Act (quoted supra, p. 3), which gives a right to bring
here for review any suit "where is drawn in question the
validity of any clause of the Constitution.. . or commission
held under the United Statds, and the decision is against
the title, right, privilege, or exemption specially set up or
claimed by either party under such clause." The title, right,
privilege, or exemption here meant to be set up was one by

Dec. 1872.]

PENNYWIT V, EATON.
Opinion of the court. "

the defendant, and was supposed to arise under two clauses*
of the Constitution, which ordain as follows:
"The judicial power of the United States shall be vested in
one Supreme Court, and in such inferior courts as the Congress
shall from time to time ordain.
"The President of the United States... shall nominate, and by
and with the advice and consent of the Senate shall appoint
judges of the Supreme Court, and all otf.r officers of the United
States, whose appointments are not herein otherwise provided
for, which shall be established by law."
M1r. TV. Al. Bose, in support of the motion; lr. A. H. Garland, contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE:
The Pulaski County Court was requested to hold, that if
it appeared from the evidence that the judge who presided
in the court at New Orleans and rendered the judgment
there, held his office' by appointment from a military governor of the State of Louisiana, and under no other authority, the judgment was void. This raised, though somewhat obscurely, the question whether the court so held had
any jurisdiction under the Constitution of the United States,
and the question was decided against the privilege claimed
under the Constitution by the defendants.
We cannot, therefore, dismiss the case for want of jurisdiction, although we may have a very clear conviction that
the decision of the State court was correct.
MOTION DENIED.

[See the next case.]

* Article 3,

1, and Article 2,

2.

PENNYWIT V. EATON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argulnent for the plaintiffs in error.

PENNYWIT V. EATON.
[02T MERITS.]
Judgment affirmed with 10 per cent. damages in a case brought here in disregard of the law as already settled by precedents of the court.
ERPOR

to the Supreme Court of Arkansas; the case being

this:
On the 3d day of January, 1862, during the late rebellion,
the Fourth District Court of New Orleans (then held by a
judge appointed by a military'governor of Louisiana) issued a
writ of attachment against the steamer "Thirty-fifth Parallel," of which one Pennywit and certain other persons were
owners;. each owning a part. These owners had given a
promissory note at Nvew Orleans, on the 8th day of October,
1861, for $6795.71, to Eaton & Betterton. Bond with sureties was given, and the attachment was released. Judgment
was subsequently rendered against the defendants personally
for the amount 6f the note with interest. Suit was instituted
upon this judgment against Pennywit, in a court of Pulaski County, in Arkansas. The defence was that at the
time of the original suit, Pennywit was not a citizen of
Louisiana, and had not been served with process, but that
he was a citizen of Arkansas, then domiciled there, and had
ever since remained such. The judgment of the Pulaski
County Court was for the defendant, and on appeal taken
by the plaintifl, the judgment was reversed in the Supreme
Court of the State. In the meantime Pennywit died, and
the suit was revived against his executors, and judgment
was rendered against them in pursuance of the mandate of
the Supreme Court. This latter judgment was affirmed in
the Supreme Court, and the case was brought by writ of
error to this court.
Mr. A. E1. Garland,for the plaintiffs in error:
1. The case originated upon what purported to be ajudg.
ment, rendered in a New Orleans court, by attachinga steamboat. The suit in that court was not an attachment against

Dec. 1872.]

PENNYWIT V. EATON.
Argument for the plaintiffs in error

the interest or property of Pennywit in the steamboat, but
was a proceeding in rem and directly against the boat itself.
No such proceeding could be valid except when the process
issued from an admiralty court of the United States.
The
court could not by its process thus seize upon the boat.
2. The judge who presided in the court that pretended to
render judgment was appointed by the military authority
then holding the territory of Louisiana, and his commission
was issued by that authority. Neither the military commander nor the military governor of Louisiana had any
such power, and the appointment in this case was a nullity.
If, as this court has decided, in Texas v. White,t th6 seceding States were still States of the Union, then it is as true,
no military appointments of judges for Louisiana, one of
those seceding States, can be upheld. If it be held, however, that Louisiana, being then in war against the General
Government, and the forces of the latter having had possession of her territory, a government there by those forces
was a necessity, that may be admitted, so far as the necessities of military occupation were concerned, and no further.T
When this court said, in The Grapeshot,ยง that a court organized by the President of the United States in Louisiana,
durinig the occupation by the Federal troops, was a lawful
court, it did not state or intimate that any military conmander or governor there could organize a court and appoint
judges. How does the President himself get the authority?
Obviously as commander-in-chief of the army, under the
Constitution of the United States. When it is given to him
as such, it is given to no one else. It is not shown that Mr.
Lincoln, the then President, attempted to delegate his authority to his subordinates in Louisiana; and if he had it
would not help the matter. A delegated authority cannot
be delegated.
.31:. IV M. Rose, contra.
The Moses Taylor, 4 Wallace, 411; The Eine v. Trevor, Ib. 555; The
Belfast, 7 Id. 624.
t 7 Wallace, 700.
$ Handlin v. Wickliffe, 12 Id. 173.
9 Id. 129.

EX PAIRTE R'OBERTS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
Two questions are presented, both of which have been
adjudicated. The first relates to the proceeding of the court
of Louisiana, by which the original judgment was rendered.
It is claimed that this was a proceeding in admiralty. It
was, in fact, a proceeding against the persons of the defendants, instituted by attachment. Such a suit, we have held,
is not a proceeding in admiralty.*
The second question relates to the validity of the appointment of the judge who presided in the court of the Fourth
District of New Orleans. His commission came from the
military governor, who was appointed by the President during the late war. We have already decided that such appointments were within the power of such a goveruor.t
There can have been no good ground for the writ of error
under the former adjudications of this court, and there is no
attempt to question these adjudications. We are obliged,
therefore, to regard this writ of error as prosecuted for
delay.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Arkansas must be
AFFIRMED, WITH[ TEN PER CENT. DAMAGES.

Ex

PARTE 10BERTS.

The allowance of an appeal to this court by the Court of Claims, does not
absolutely and of itself remove the cause from the jurisdiction of the
latter court, so that no order revoking such allowance can be made.

ON petition of M. 0. Roberts for a writ of mandamus to
the Court of Claims to require that court to hear, entertain,
" The Genesee Chief v.Fitzhugh, 12 Howard, 443; Jackson v. Steamboat
Magnolia, 20 Id. 296; Taylor v. Carryl, Ib. 583; The Hine v. Trevor, 4
Wallace, 555; The Belfast, 7 Id. 624; Leon v. Galceran, 11 Id. 185.
j Handlin v. Wickliffe, 12 Id. 173; Leitensdorfer v. Webb, 20 Howard,
177; The Grapeshot, 9 Wallace, 133.

