UNITED STATES V. KELLY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The attempt to impeach Albren's character rests on the
testimony of four witnesses. Two of these were parties to
judicial proceedings alleging against them similar acts of
fraud on the revenue, and Albren had been, or was expected to be, a witness against them. On the other hand,
several witnesses are called who testify to his general good
character for truth and veracity. In this respect we do not
think he has been successfully impeached.
As to the statement introduced in evidence, as taken down
in the office of the claimants' attorney, purporting to be made
by Albren, though not signed or sworn to, it seems to us that
his own account of it is probably correct, namely, that it was
an attempt to commit him before the trial to a statement
which would exonerate Captain Downey, and that the offered
bribe failed, probably because neither party would trust the
other by signing the paper or paying down the money first.
We think that a case is made out against the vessel, and
that the decree of the Circuit Court must be REVERSED, and
a judgment rendered in favor of the United States in that
court.
DECREE ACCORDINGLY.

UNITED STATES V. KELLY.
A soldier, who had deserted, but was restored to duty by order of his department commander, without trial, on condition that he make good
the time lost (about two months), and who complied with the condition,
and was honorably discharged at the expiration of his term of service,
held entitled to bounty money, notwithstanding his desertion.

THIS was an appeal by the United States from a judgment
of the Court of Claims, in favor of one Kelly, lately a soldier
in the army of the United States, for an unpaid balance of
bounty money.
The claim was denied by the pay department, on the
ground that the bounty had been forfeited by desertion.

Dec. 1872.]

UNITED STATES V. KELLY.

Argument for the soldier.

The case as found by the court was, that the petitioner had
deserted, but was restored to duty by order of his department commander, without trial, on condition that he make
good the time lost, about two months; that he complied
with the condition, and was honorably discharged at the
expiration of his term of service.
Upon this case, Mr. NW. P. Chipinan, for the soldier, and in
supl)ort of the ruling below, made a very full examination of
the acts of Congress, and on an exhibit of their provisions,
argued that there was nothing in any of them prohibiting
the payment of bounty money to a soldier who had deserted, irrespectively of the circumstances of his desertion;
that desertion, being sometimes a mere technical desertion,
and without cowardice or disaffection to the service, did not
per se so taint the status of the soldier, as to render him necessarily and without any judicial proceedings absolutely disqualified to receive bounty; nor was it under every circumstance such an act that his contract with the government
was wholly and ipso facto dissolved, and that he could never
return, and by performance of service properly thereafterwhich service should be accepted-set up a condonation of
his offence. The counsel argued that any other view would
lead to the worst consequences in an army of a million of
troops, called out as our troops were during the rebellion;
troops comprising officers and men of inexperienced years;
both officers and soldiers unacquainted with the laws of
war; the soldiers especially unacquainted with the rigors
of discipline, unused to the restraints which capricious or
incompetent superior officers could enforce; not schooled
nor proof against the evil influences of depraved associates,
and liable, under some physical suffering or discouragemerit, or inadvertence, to commit an offence the gravity of
which was not comprehended, and th6 penalty for which had
not been understood or appreciated. The counsel fortified
his views as to the effect of desertion in such a case as the
one before the court by references to the third edition, published in 1868, of the Digest of the present Judge Advocate

SMOOT'S

[Sup. Ct.

CASE.

Syllabus.

General of the United States, the lion. Joseph Holt, Esq.,*
whom he characterized as "the most eminent and able writer
on military law that this country had ever produced."
Mr. C. 1. _ill, Assistant Attorney-General, contra, submitted tle case on the record.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
We do not think that, under the circumstances of the
present case, the bounty was forfeited.

The able lawyer

who fills at present the post of Judge Advocate General, in
a case similar to the present, held that "the honorable discharge of the deserter wa a formal final judgment passed
by the government upon the entire military record of the
soldier, and an authoritative declaration by it that he had
left the service in a status of honor; that as such, it dispensed altogether with the supposed necessity that the soldier must obtain bounty by removal, by order, of the charge
of desertion from the rolls, and amounted of itself to the
removal of any charge or impediment in the way of his receiving bounty." With this opinion we entirely concur.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.-

SIOOT'S CASE.
1. The court calls attention to the efforts frequently made by contractors
and by their counsel to construe contracts made with the government
by appeals to its power, its magnanimity, and generosity.
2. Such appeals, it declares, can properly be presented to Congress alone;
for the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims is of contracts express or implied.
3. In the construction and enforcement of these contracts, the Court of
Claims is bound to apply the ordinary principles which govern such
contracts between individuals.
* Digest of the Opinions of the Judge Advocate General of the Army;
published by the War Department, Bureau of Military Justice; p. 146,
paragraph 7, title "Discharge."

