Dec. 1872.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. GLAD.No.

401

Statement of the case.

garded as a sale by Johnson. Yet the only authority they
had to sell at all, resulted either from express power given
to them by the owner, or from the relation to him in which
they then stood. They might have sold their lien, or the
debt secured by it; and had they done so, the sale would
have involved no trading with the enemy. But they undertook to sell Johnson's property, describing it as such in the
instrument of sale, and describing themselves as Johnson's
agents. Very clearly, in effect, the parties to the transaction
were the appellant and a public enemy. For this reason
the judgment is
0

AFiRmED.

RAILROAD COMPANY v. GLADMON.
1. While in a suit by an adult against a street railway company for injuries
done to him while he was crossing the track of the company, it is true
that the absence of reasonable care and caution on his part will prevent
a recovery, it-is not correct to say that it is incumbent upon him to prove
such care and caution. The want of it, or, as it is termed, "contributory negligence," is a defence to be proved by the other side.
2. The rule of law in regard to the negligence of an adult, and the rule in
regard to that of an infant of tender years, is quite different. By the
adult there must be given that care and attention for his own protection
that is ordinarily exercised by persons of intelligence and discretion.
Of an infant of tender years less discretion is required, and the degree
depends upon his age and knowledge. The caution required is according to the maturity and capacity of the child, a matter to be determined
in each case by the circumstances of that case.
3. A prayer for instructions which assumes as existing, matters of which no
proof is found in the record, and which are simply inferred to be facts
by counsel making the prayer, ought not to be granted.
4. In this case the respective obligations of street railway companies on the
one hand, and of persons (including children) crossing the tracks on
which the rail-cars run on the other, are stated in the charge of the
court below, and declared by this court in'a general approval of it.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia;
the case being this:
One of the drivers of the Washington and Georgetown
Railway Company-a company chartered by Congress to
VOL. XV.

26

402

RAILROAD COMPANY V. GLADMON.

[SUp. Ct.

Statement of the case.

run cars through streets of the cities of Washington and
Georgetown,-was, on a morning of April, 1868, driving a
car through a populous portion of the latter place. Some
person was standing beside him on the front platform of the
car. Instead of looking at his horses and before him, he
turned his face round and began to talk to this person; thus
turning himself so as to look at a right angle to the course
in which he was driving. Just as he turned his head, Oliver
Gladmon, a child seven years old, attempted to run across
the track, in front of the horses. Before he got across he
turned to come back again. In some way which was not
more particularly explained, before he got back he was severely injured by the horses or car. Hereupon his father,
as next friend of the child, sued the company. The record
showed no testimony but that of one witness, who mentioned the chief facts above stated, and testified "that if. the
driver had not been looking at his companion he could have
checked the horses in time to have prevented the accident."
At the close of this testimony, tending to show the negligence of the driver, the counsel of the railroad company
asked the court to give the following instructions:
1. If the jury find from the evidence that the plaintiff's injuries resulted from his attempting to cross a street in front of
an approaching car, driven by an agent of defendant's, the burden of proof is on the plaintiff to show affirmatively not only
the want of ordinary care and caution on the part of the driver,
but the exercise of due care and caution on his own part; and
if the jury find from the evidence that the negligence or want
of due care or caution of the plaintiff caused the accident, or
even contributed to it, or that it could have been avoided by
the exercise of due care on his part, then the plaintiff is not
entitled to recover whether the driver of the car was guilty of
negligence or not, but the jury must find for defendant.
2. If the jury find that the plaintiff negligently or rashly attemted to cross the street in front of the car, but his injuries
resulted from his having accidentally slipped and fallen on or
near the track when endeavoring to turn back when it was too
late to stop the car, it is to be regarded as an inevitable acci.

Dec. 1872.]

RAILROAD COMPANY v. GLADMoN.
Statement of the case.

dent, for the consequences of which the defendant is not responsible.
3. If the plaintiff's injuries resulted from his attempting to
cross the street so suddenly that the driver could not stop the
car in time to avoid a collision with him, he is not entitled to
recover.
4. That the driver of the car had a right to suppose that the
plaintiff, when duly warned, would desist from the attempt to
cross the street immediately in front of the car, and if such due
warning was given, and it not being heeded, it was then too
late to avert the accident, though the driver made every effort
to do so, the plaintiff is not entitled to recover.
The court (CARTER, 0. J.) refused to give these instructions, and charged as follows:
[The care of the defendant is to be tested by the'exercise of
adult judgment in treating undeveloped judgment in childhood.
The defendant, in his duty under the law, is to be held to the
exercise of adult judgment and caution when brought to bear
upon the security of childhood and undeveloped judgment, and
as a convertible proposition the child is to be held to the measure of childhood judgment; and I will give you some of the
reasons for this determination:]
This corporation, under the operation of its charter, the authority of the law of its existence, is permitted to occupy the
common thoroughfares of this city. It is created to move in
those thoroughfares with the machinery that it has adopted as
a carrier.
[It is not contemplated by law, under the authority of their
creation, that they occupy the thoroughfares of Washington
and Georgetown, to the exclusion of an occupation, the right
of the citizens of the cities to do so-an easement that belongs
to all men, women, and children of all grades of intelligence
and circumspection, from the lowest grade of description to the
highest. The rule that I have laid down covers the whole compass of description-from childhood to manhood, from infant
judgment to ripe judgment-and was determined by the court
for the reason that the occupation of these streets is the common
property of all in common and the regulation of the intercourse
each with the other must have reference to and be qualified by
that common right.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. GLADMON.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

I do not wish to be understood in advancing this rule, as
saying that this corporation are compelled to work this road
through the thoroughfares of the streets of the District, as amid
a population of blind or deaf men. They are not obliged to furnish eyes that others may see, or ears that others may hear.
The responsibility of the highway is not theirs alone. Every
person who enters upon it, enters upon it under the obligation
to exercise a certain judgment in the preservation of his or her
own life.
[The degree of that accountability varies with the age and
capacity of the individual, until you get to a point where the
occupant of the highway is utterly disqualified from protecting
him or herself for the want of discretion.]
At that point the liability to exercise discretion for him is to
be found in another quarter than with the stranger. At that
point the liability of the guardian attaches and not the liability
of the defendant.
There is another suggestion in explanation of this text of the
law, as the court has given it, which it may not be improper to
give at this time.
While the railroad, in working its cars through this city, is
charged with caution, and strict caution, as far as their movement may affect adversely the rights of others, they'are chargeable with no higher caution than can be exercised with the machinery which the law permits them to employ in performing
the service of a common carrier in the District. This remark
is made with reference to the character of a car, and the difficulty in bringing it to an instant pause. The car, to be of any
service to the public, must be in motion, must move at intervals
at least; and when in motion, its momentum requires time to
bring it to a pause. There is nothing in the obligation of a circumspection resting upon this company that compels them to
do what cannot be done. They have a right to the measure of
time necessary to bring their car to a state of rest. There is
no other rule by which these different interests of different citizens, and under different circumstances, can be regulated in the
enjoyment of a common easement. They have the right to pass
across, and the right to pass over the streets of the cities; and
in estimating the proof for the plaintiff and the defendant in
this case, it is your duty to look upon the relations of each to
the other, and the rights of one citizen with another in a corn-

Dec. 1872.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. GLADMON.

405

Statement of the case.
enjoyment and a common right, and answer, yourselves,
the question, Have these relative rights been offended in this
case, as made manifest by the proof? If they have, trace the
violation to the offender, and hold him accountable in the consequence of his violating the right.
[I am requested to say to you that if the defendant in this
case was in the wrong, if the car of the defendant was moving
with greater speed than good precaution and judgment would
dictate, yet if you find from the testimony that the plaintiff, by
his own act and in his own fault, superinduced the injury of
which he now complains, that he may not recover.
That is the law, gentlemen. But in estimating that you will
go back again to the foundation principle laid down in the government of the law of this case, and estimate the fault, the indiscretion, by the measure of the years of the plaintiff. You
have got to adopt one of two rules here, and I have concluded
it to be my duty to adopt tfje rule I have laid down; either to
judge this child's conduct under the measure of his years, and
the measure of his discretion, or pronounce that no action lies
in behalf of a child, or demand of the child a measure of judgment that nature has not given to him, which would be a greater
outrage upon good logic than to pronounce he had no remedy.
Now, if you find from the facts that this child interposed
himself in the way of this car at a time when it could not be
arrested, and under circumstances where he could not be seen
under watchful, reasonably watchful, strictly watchful care on
the part of the driver, where the car could not be brought to a
pause early enough to save his body from injury, the defendant
is not liable. If you find, on the contrary, that this child came
upon the theatre of observation there at a time when the driver,
attending to his duty, may have observed him, and observed
him as an infant, with power to arrest his car to save him, you
will hold this corporation responsible for the injury done to him;
and it appears to me that the whole case lies pretty much there,
mn

too.]
However, I do not wish to comment on the facts.
your province. Take the case and dispose of it.

That is

The defendant excepted to the parts of the charge above
in [ ]. The jury found for the plaintiff $9000 and costs,
and judgment being entered. accordingly the case was

406

RAILROAD COMPANY V. GLADWION.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

brought here on exception to the refusal to charge ag requested, and to the charge as given.
XIessrs. J.P. Bradley and J. P. -Bradley,Jr.,for the plainIiff f error; Milessrs. B. T. Merrick and W. F. Mattingly,
contra.
Mr. Justice HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
Sufficient proof was given to establish the negligence of
the driver of the car, and no point is raised on that branch
of the case.
The alleged errors arise from refusals to give certain instructions upon the effect of the conduct of the child, and
of the charge as actually made on that subject. The first
prayer for instructions is stated in the recorA in the words
following:
"If the jury find from the evidence that the plaintiff's injuries resulted from his attempting to cross a street in front
of an approaching car, driven by an agent of defendants, the
burden of proof is on the plaintiff to show affirmatively, not
only the want of ordinary care and caution on the part of
the driver, but the exercise of due care and caution on his
own part; and if the jury find from the evidence that the
negligence or want of due care or caution of the plaintiff
caused the accident, or even contributed to it, or that it
could have been avoided by the exercise of due care on his
own part, then the plaintiff is not entitled to recover, whether
the driver of the car was guilty of negligence or not, but the
jury must find for defendant."
As applied to adult parties,the first branch of this proposition is not correct. While it is true that the absence of
reasonable care and caution, on the part of one seeking to
recover for an injury so received, will prevent a recovery, it
is not correct to say that it is incumbent upon him to prove
such care and caution.- The want of such care or contributory negligence, as it is termed, is a defence to be proved
by the other side.
The plaintiff may establish the negligence of the defend-

Dec. 1872.]

R AILIOAD CoMPrAINY

v. GLADMON.

Opinion of the court.

ant, his own injury in consequence thereof, and his case is
made out. If there are circumstances which convict him of
concurring negligence, the defendant must prove them, and
thus defeat the action. Irrespective of statute law on the
subject, the burden of proof on that point does not rest upon
the plaintiff.* In the case of Oldfield v. The New York and
,.arlemRailroad Company,t Denio, J., says:
"I am of opinion that it is not a rule of law of universal
application that the plaintiff must pi'ove affirmatively that.
his own conduct, on the occasion of the injury, was cautious
and prudent. The onus probandi,in this as in most other
cases, depends upon the position of the affair as it stands
upon the undisputed facts. Thus, if a carriage be driven
furiously through a crowded thoroughfare, and a person is
run over, he.would not be obliged to prove that he was
cautious and attentive, and he might recover, though there
were no witnesses of his actual conduct. The natural instinct of self-preservation would stand in the place of positive evidence, and the dangerous tendency of the defendant's
conduct would create so strong a probability that the injury
happened through his fault that no other evidence would be
required. . . . The culpability of the defendant must b6
affirmatively proved before the case can go to the jury, but
the absence of any fault on the part of the plaintiff may b.e
inferred from circumstances; and the disposition of men to
take care of themselves and keep out of difficulty may properly be taken into consideration."
The later cases in the New York Court of Appeals I think
will show that the trials have almost uniformly proceeded
upon the theory that the plaintiff is not bound to prove
affirmatively that he was himself free from negligence, and
this theory has been accepted as the true one. Generally,
as here, the proof which shows the defendant's negligence,
shows also the negligence or the caution of the plaintiff.
* Oldfleld v. New York and Harlem :Railroad Co., 3 E. D. Smith, 103;
affirmed 14 New York, 310; Johnson v. Hudson River Railroad Co., 20 New
York, 65; Button v. Same, 18 Id. 248; Wilds v. Same, 24 New York, 430.
t 3 E. D. Smith, 103.

RAILROAD COMPANY

v.

GLADMON.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

The question of the burden of proof is, therefore, not usually
presented with prominence. In some of the States it has
been held that the plaintiff was bound to make affirmative
proof of his freedom from negligence. In many cases it is
so held by virtue of local statutes.*
There is, however, another and very satisfactory reason
for the refusal to comply with the prayer. The rule of law
in regard to the negligence of an adult, and the rule in
regard to that of an infant of tender years is quite different.
By the adult there must be given that care and attention
for his own protection that is ordiharily exercised by persons of intelligence and discretion. If he fails to give it, his
injury is the result of his own folly, and cannot be visited
upon another. Of an infant of tender years less discretion
is required, and the degree depends upon. his age and
knowledge. Of a child of three years of age less caution
would be required than of one of seven, and of a child of
seven less than of one of twelve or fifteen. The caution required is according to the maturity and capacity of the child,
and this is to be determined in each case by the circumstances of that case.t
The rule laid-down in the request under consideration entirely ignores this difference. Assuming that it would have
been a sound rule if the plaintiff had been an adult, it is
evident that the jury would not have been justified in applying it in this case. That "due care and caution" required
of plaintiffs generally, was not required of the pl tintiff here.
If it had been given as requested, the instruction would have
been quite certain to mislead the jury to the prejudice of the
plaintiff. It was properly refused.
The instruction asked for in the second prayer, and which
the judge refused to give, was as follows:
* Sherman & Redfield on Negligence, a 43 and 44, and note where the
cases are collected.
t Sherman & Redfield on Negligence, ? 49; Mangam v. Brooklyn City
Railroad, 38 New York, 455; O'Mara v. Hudson River Railroad Co., 38
New York, 445; Smith v. O'Connor, 48 Pennsylvania State, 218; Peansylvania Railroad v. McTighe, 16 Id. 316.

Dec.

1872.]

RAILROAD COMPANY v. GLADMON.
Opinion of the court.

"2. If the jury find that the plaintiff negli gently or rashly
attempted to cross the street in front of the car, but his injuries resulted from his having accidentally slipped and fallen
on or near the track when endeavoring to turn back when it
was too late to stop the car, it is to be regarded as an inevitable accident, for the consequences of which the defendant
is not responsible."
The suggestions already made are applicable to this request. The circumstance that the plaintiff was an infant of
tender years, and that a different rule was required in that
case from the rule in the case of an adult, was excluded from
the proposition. A charge in accordance with the prayer
could not, therefore, have been properly made. The prayer
also assumed as existing, facts of which no proof is found in
the record. I do not find any evidence of the fact here
assumed, that when the plaintiff slipped or fell, it was too
late to stop the car. The evidence on that subject comes
from the witness who testified in substance that if the driver
had been attending to his duty he could have checked his
horses in time. This witness -gave the only evidence on the
point. It is not allowable to assume as existing, facts not
proved, and to ask a direction to the jury upon such assumption. This practice would tend to embarrass and mislead
the jury.
The third and fourth prayers are of the same general
character and do not require more particular consideration.
Exception is also taken to certain portions of the charge.
The general scope and tendency of the charge is correct.
The rule in regard to the liability of the defendant under
the circumstances submitted to the jury is correctly given.
The language is less simple, perhaps, than might have been
desired, and detached sentences might be open to criticism,
but upon the whole it is right, and the jury could not have
failed to understand it correctly.
Some discussion was had upon the argument on the point
of the degree of care and attention to be required of those
having the charge and custody of an infant of tender years.

TIFFANY V. LUCAS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

This presents an interesting question, which, when it is properly before us, will receive the careful attention of the court.
In the present case it does not appear to have been presented
to the court below, and there is nothing in the evidence to
justify this court in now considering it. Upon the case, as
it comes before us, the judgment.must be
AFFIRMED.

TIFFANY V. LUCAS.
1. A sale by a person in fact insolvent and made within six months of a
bankruptcy subsequently decreed, is not necessarily and without regard
to its character, void under the 35th section of the Bankrupt Act.
2. If it was made in good faith, for the honest purpose of discharging debt,
and in the confident expectation that by so doing the person could continue his business, it will be upheld. On the contrary, if he made it to
evade the provisions of the Bankrupt Act, and to withdraw his property
from its control, and the vendee either knew or had reasonable cause to
believe that the vendor's intention was of this character, it will be
avoided.
3. Thus two things must concur to avoid the sale: the fraudulent design of
the bankrupt and the knowledge of it on the part of the vendee, or reasonable cause to believe it existed.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Missouri; the case being thus:
Lucas purchased in April, 1869, from Darby (then in debt)
a piece of real estate in St. Louis: the deed being made on
the 24th of that month. At a meeting of Darby's creditors,
held on the 17th of June following, he was told by them
that he must file his petition to be adjudged a bankrupt, or
that he would be forced into bankruptcy. On that day he
discontinued business, and on the 1st of July presented his
petitioh praying to be adjudged'a bankrupt, and on the 12th
following was adjudged a bankrupt accordingly; one Tiffany being appointed his assignee. Tiffany soon afterwards
filed a bill in the District Court for the District of Missouri,

