Dec. 1872.]

RAILROADS V. RICHIIMOND.
Statement of the case.

copy to each of the counsel in all cases pending and not yet
argued. In the case before us, thi rule has been totally
disregarded on ilie part of the appellant.
We shall, therefore, in this case
DISMISS TIE APPEAL.

RAILROADS V. BICHMOND.

A case will fall within the 25th section of the Judiciary Act where the
record shows that on a suit on a contract the defendants set tip that the
contract had been rendered void and of no force and effect by provisions
of the Constitution of the United St.ites and1 of certain acts of Congress,
and shows also that the decision of the highest court of the State was
against the right, title, privilege, or exemption thus specially set up.

MOTION to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court

of Iowa, which had been sued out on the assumption that
the case came within the third clause of the 25th section of
the Judiciary Act. That act thus enacts:
"That a final judgment or decree in any suit, in the highest
court of law or equity of a State in wviich a decision in the suit
could be had,
"(1st.) Where is drawn in question the validity of a treaty or
statute of, or an authority exercised under, the United States,
and the decision is AGAINST their validity;
"(2d.) Or where is drawn in question the validity of a statute
of or an authority exercised under any State, on the ground of
their being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or laws of
the United States, and the decision is IN FAVOR of such their
validity;
"(3d.) Or where is drawn in question the construction of any
clause of the Constitution, or of a treaty, or statute of, or commission held under the United States, and the decision is AGAINST
the title, right, privilege, or exemption, specially set up or claimed
by either party, under such clause of the said Constitution, treaty,
statute, or commission,"May be re-examined and reversed or affirmed in the Supreme
Court of the United States upon a writ of error."

4

RAILROADS V. RICHMOND.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The case was thus:
This statute being ii,force, the Sioux City and Dubuque
Railroad, beginning on the Missouri, the western boundary
of Iowa, runs eastwardly across the State till it reaches Dubuque on the Mississippi, its eastern boundary. On this road
quantities of grain are carried from the West to Chicago and
other eastern towns. Arriving at Dubuque, the grain, bound
eastward, or as it was called "throu g h grailu," was formerly
taken from the railcars, put on a ferry-boat, carried thus
across the Mississippi to Dunlieth (a town in Illinois directly
opposite Dubuque), and there put upon cars of the Illinois
Central Railroad and sent forward, east. Dubuque was thus
a point for transshipment. In this state of things the Sioux
City and Dubuque Railroad made a contract with Richmond
and another, owners of an elevator at Dubuque, beside the
road and near the river, that they, the owners of this elevator,
should have the handling of all the " through grain ;" and
that the railroad company would pay them a certain price
per bushel for receiving and discharging it, and would pay
also for storage of it when exceeding ten days.
With this contract in force Congress in 1866 passed two
acts, one of June 15th,* entitled " .A n act to facilitate commercial, postal, and military communications among the
several States," which enacted:
"That every railroad company in the United States, &c., be,
and is hereby, authorized to carry upon and over its road, boats,
bridges, and ferries, all passengers, troops, government supplies,
freight, and property on their way from any State to another
State, and to receive compensation therefbr, and to connect with
roads of other States so as to form continuous lines for the transportation of the same to the place of destination."
The other, an act of July 25th,t entitled "An act to authorize the construction of certain bridges, and establish
them as post roads." This act provided for the construction
of certain bridges across the Mississippi River, including
one at Dubuque, and declared that they shall be
* 14 Stat. at Large, 66.

l1b. 244.

Dec. 1872.]

RAILROADS V. RICHMOND.
Statement of the case.

"For the more perfect connection of any railroads that are
or shall be constructed to the said river at or opposite said
points, and that, when constructed, all trains of all roads terminating at said river, at or opposite said point, shall be allowed
to cross said bridge," &e.
In pursuance of this second act a bridge was built over
the river; and in virtue of the first one the two roads were
connected by the Dubuque bridge, so as to form a continuous line of roads, and put under one management and control, that of the Illinois Central Railroad, which agreed to
assume the contract about the elevator.
Neither road having, however, any further occasion to
transfer at Dubuque anything passing over the road, the
elevator was no longer used. The grain passed continuously
on. Thereupon, Richmond, and the other owners of the
elevator, brought suit against the companies, alleging that
they, the companies, were
"Daily receiving through grain as aforesaid, and passing the
same through Dubuque, without permitting the plaintiffs to
have the handling of the same at their elevator as aforesaid, and
without paying the plaintiffs therefor."
The petition asked for damages, and prayed for an injunction to restrain the companies from delivering grain otherwise than through their elevator.
The defendants denied every allegation in the petition,
and averred that the plaintiffs had been paid in full for all
of the grain which they were entitled to handle under and
by virtue of the said contract. They did not, however, plead
specially the Constitution of the United States, nor the acts
of Congress hereinbefore named, as a defence to the demaud.
The case was heard in the Supreme Court of Iowa, where
a final decree was rendered, giving the plaintifi in the case
$73,186 damages, and concluding thus:
"And it is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed that the
claim of the said defendants, that the Constitution of the United
States, and certain acts of the Congress of the United States,

IAILROADS

V. RIeIIMOND.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against dismissal.

one entitled, &c., approved July 25th, 1866, and another entitled, &c., and approved June 15th, 1866, renders void and of no

force and effect the covenants sued on in this action by the said
plaintiffs in the contract and supplemental contract, which are
the subjects of this action, be and the same is hereby denied,
and it is adjudged that the said Constitution and the said acts
of Congress do not in any manner affect the validity or force
and effect of either or any of said covenants, or of either of
said contracts."
From this decree it was that the present writ was taken,
under the assumption, as already stated, that the case came
within the third clause of the 25th section of the Judiciary
Act.
The motion to dismiss was made on the ground that "the
record did not show a state of facts that made any act of
Congress apply to the case."
.Mr. Plait Smith, in support of the notion:
Although the acts authorize the connection of the tracks
so as to form continuous lines of transportation to the place
of destination; and though the tracks are connected and the
lines formed, the acts do not say that the grain once loaded
and on the line shall in no case change cars or break bulk
short of the ultimate destination.
The contract provides that the owners of the elevator
shall have the handling of all through grain, and shall
have one cent per bushel for the service. The Supreme
Court of Iowa says that they will not compel the railroad
company to perform this contract specifically, but that they
will give damages in lieu if the grain goes on the continuous
line without breaking bulk, and the plaintiff get judgment
for the breach of contract. These acts do not in terms nor
can they in spirit be stretched to reach the contracts.
ir. T" . Wilson, contra:
The final decree rendered by the Supreme Court of Iowa
shows:
1. That a question was presented to that court, consid-

Dec. 1872.]

RAILIROADS
2
V. RICIHIOND.
Opinion of the court.

ered, and decided, involving the commercial power of Congress, and the construction of two acts of that department
of the government, and the exemption set up by the defendants from liability to discharge the covenants, contained in
the contracts sued on, because of the exercise of the said
power in the passage of the acts named.
2. That the said court did construe the provisions of the
Constitution conferring the said power, and did construe the
said acts of Congress, and thereupon did adjudge "that said
Constitution and said acts of Congress do not in any manner
affect the validity or force and effect of either or any of said
covenants, or either of said contracts."
3. That the several contracts, and the several covenants
therein contained, were considered in their relations to the
Constitution, and said several acts of Congress, and severally held to be valid and of force and effect, because of the
construction given to the Constitution and acts by the said
court; thereby denying the right of the defendants to carry
grain passing from one State to another State without delivering the same to the plaintiffs, and denying the exemption claimed from the covenant of said contract to deliver
said grain, and pay one cent a bushel therefor.

Certainly a Federal question is thus presented .under the
third clause of the 25th section.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendants in error move to dismiss the writ of error
on the ground that the "record does not show a state of facts,
that makes any act of Congress apply to the case." The
record does show, however, that the present plaintiffs in error
claimed in the State court, that contracts made with the defendants in error had been rendered void and of no force
and effect by provisions of the Constitution of the United
States, and of certain acts of C.ongress, approved June 15th,
1866, and July 25th, 1866, and also that the decision of the
Supreme Court of Iowa, denied this claim. The motion to
dismiss must, therefore, be
DENIED.

