Dec. 1872.]

CITY OF RICHMOND V. S31ITH.

429

Syllabus.

where they have been issued as process to enforce judgments.
The fourteenth section clothes all the courts of the United
States with power to issue certain specific writs, and all
other writs which may be necessary for the exercise of their
respective jurisdictions. Of course Circuit Courts may issue
writs of mandamus when necessary to the exercise of their
jurisdiction, but they have no authority to issue it as an
original writ in any case. The absence of the power in the
Circuit Courts to issue writs of mandamus, except as ancillary to a jurisdiction already acquired, is so well explained
in Bath County v. Amny,* that it is unnecessary to pursue the
subject further.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and the case remanded with direc-

tions to
DismISS THE SUIT FOR WANT OF JURISDICTION.

Mr. Justice BRADLEY:
I concur in the judgment of the court, on the ground that
the case was not on its merits a proper one for a mandamus.
I think it unnecessary to pass upon the question whether
the bankrupt court may or may not in any case issue a
mandamus to an officer of a State.

CITY OF RIcHMOND V. SMITH.
The council of the city of Richmond, towards the close of the rebellion, and
in anticipation of the entry into the city of the forces of the United
States, which were then beleaguering it, passed a resolution that the
stock of liquors in the city should be destroyed by committees to be appointed to do this, who should give receipts to the holders; the council
pledging the faith of the city to the holders for the value. The stock
of S was destroyed accordingly. Almost immediately afterwards, the
Confederate government, against the protest and remonstrance of the

city council, set fire to certain tobacco warehouses and other buildings
* 13 Wallace, 247.

430

CITY OF RICHMON D V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.
near the premiseg where S bad his liquors, whereby the premises of S.
and his liquors were destroyed. S. sued the city, counting specially on
the resolutions, the destruction of his liquor, and stating that he bad no
receipts. The city demurred. The court overruled the demurrer.
The defendant then pleaded specially the fact of the firing of the
tobacco warehouse, &c., near to S 's premises, and that at the instant of
destruction the premises were about to take fire from the tobacco warehouses, and did in a short time thereafter actually take fire; that the
city had no means to extinguish that fire, and that the liquors were
consumed; and would have been consumed by the fire if the committee
had not destroyed them, and that so they were of no value to the plaintiff. The plaintiff demuried. The court sustained the demurrer.
The parties now went to trial, when they agreed to waive a jury and
to submit all questions of fact to the court, "with authority to draw all
inferences and conclusions that a jury is authorized to draw from the
evidence, and with liberty to either party to except to the judgment in
the same manner and to the same extent that he might except to the
verdict of a jury, and to object to the same for the same reasons and
with the right to appeal from the same." The court found for the
plaintiff generally.
Hield (the highest State court of Virginia having in a similar case held the
city liable):
1st. That the declaration was good; in other words, that the action
lay against the city.
2d. That the special plea was bad; in other words, that the fact that
the plaintiff would have lost his liquors in any event, was no defence.
3d. That the defendant could not under the agreement raise any questions as to the effect of evidence, &c., in this court, with a view of making this court find as true the facts set forth in the special plea; which
plea, as above mentioned, if true, was declared to be no defence.
ERROR

to the Circuit Court for Virginia; the case being

thus:
On the 2d of April, 1865-the rebellion then in throes,
and the city of Richmond lying open to the entrT of the
government troops that had beleaguered it-its council, in
order to prevent drunkenness, and some of the horrors incident to the occupation of a town by an invading army,
passed certain resolutions, hereinafter set forth, for the destruction of all liquor in the city; and pledging the faith of
the city to the owner for payment of its value. A stock of
liquor owned by one Smith was thus destroyed, and on the
suppression of the rebellion and the return of peace, Smith
sued the city accordingly.

Dec. 1872.]

CITY OF RICHMoND V.

SMITH.

Statement of the case.

The declaration contained two counts; one special and the
other general. The special count alleged that,
"Whereas, on the 2d of April, 1865, in the then condition of
the government and army of what were then called the Confbderate States of America, and in contemplation of the said
army giving way to the army of the United States of America,
there was held in the said city a meeting of the council of the
said city for what was then considered a work of necessity, and
at the said meeting the council of said city adopted certain resolutions as follows:
"11. Resolved, That it is the imperative duty of this council, in case of the
evacuation of this city by the government and army, to provide, as far as it
can, for the immediate destruction of the stock of liquor in the city.

"2. Resolved, That.a committee of twenty-five citizens in each ward be
appointed by the president, to act on behalf of the city, and proceed at once
to accomplish this object, that said committee destroy, on the premises, all
the liquor they can find, giving receiptsfor th'e same fo the holders.
"3. Resolved, That the faith of the city be, and is hereby, pledged for the
payment of the value of all liquor so destroyed to the holders of said receipts.

"And the plaintiff avers that, during the evening of the same
2d day of April, 1865, and the morning of the next day., there
did occur such evacuation of the said city by the government

and army, as was contemplated by the first of said resolutions;
and that a committee was appointed, according to the second of
said resolutions; and that, on the 3d day of April, 1865, said

committee did, in pursuance of said second resolution, destroy
on the premises a large quantity of liquor found by them, and
in most of the cases did give receipts for the same to the holders; and among the liquor so destroyed, and for which no receipts
were so given, was a large quantity of whisky, brandy, rum, and
alcohol, to wit-particulars given-the total value of all which
liquors amounts to the shim of 82832, whereof the plaintiff
was before, and at the time of such destruction, lawfully possessed as of his own property, by means whereof the faith of
the said city was, and is, pledged fbr the value of all the said
liquor of the plaintiff so destroyed, to the plaintiff, which value
amounts to a large sum of money, to wit, to the sum of $2832,

of all which the defendant heretofore, to wit, on the 3d day of
April, 1865, had due notice; by reason whereof the defendant
became liable to pay to the plaintiff the said value, amounting,

CITY OF RICIHMOND V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
as aforesaid, to a large sum of money, to wit, the sum last specified; and, being so liable, the said defendant, in consideration
thereof, afterwards, to wit, on the day and in the year last mentioned, undertook and promised to pay him the same when the
said defendant should be thereto afterwards requested."
To this special count the defendant demurred, but the
court overruled the demurrer; the city excepting. A defendant, by the practice of Virginia, not losing the benefit
of his demurrer by pleading over, the city then pleaded
specially,
"That, at the time of the destruction of the liquor of the
plaintiff, and long prior thereto, it had been determined by the
Confederate government to set fire to the tobacco warehouses and
other buildings in said city, upon the evacuation of the city,
agatnst the protest and remonstrance of the said council, and that
on. of the said warehouses was situated near the premises of
the said plaintiff; that, in pursuance of the said determination
the Confederate government did on the day aforesaid, set fire
to the said warehouses and other buildings, whereby the premises
of the plaintiff and all the property on them were destroyed by
fire; and that said city had no means by which it could arrest
and extinguish the fire; and that at the instant when the said
committee were destroying the said liquor, the house of the
plaintiff, in which the liquor was stored, was about to take fire,
and did in a short time thereafter actually take fire and was
consumed, and that the said liquors would have been consumed
therein, as the said plaintiff was wholly unable to remove the
same; and the defendant avers that the liquor of the plaintiff so
destroyed by the committee as aforesaid would, if the same had
not been so destroyed by the committee, have been consumed
by the said fire; and that by reason thereof the liquor was of
no value to the plaintiff, and by its destruction as aforesaid the
said plaintiff has sustained no loss."
The plaintiff demurred generally. The demurrer was
sustained.
The parties went to trial; agreeing to waive a trial by
jury, and to submit all questions of law and fict to the decision of the court, "with authority to draw all the inferences and conclusions that a jury is authorized to draw'from

Dec. 1872.]

CITY OF RICHMOND V. SMITH.

433

Statement of the case.

the evidence, and with liberty to either party to except to
the judgment of the court in the same manner and to the
same extent that he might except to the verdict of ajury, and
to object to the same for the same reasons, and with the -rightto
appealfrom the same."
On the hearing the plaintiff gave evidence to show the
destruction and value of his liquor; and in showing this,
they showed that he got no receipts from the committee;
that they had no time to give them, and here rested.
The record now proceeded in these words:
"And this being all the evidence he offered here closed his
case.
"And then the defendant offered no evidence except evidence
to prove the facts alleged and set forth in said special plea, but
the court refused to receive said evidence and excluded the
same; to which opinion of the court refusing to receive said
evidence and excluding the same, the defendant excepted, and
tendered this his bill of exceptions, and prayed that the same
might be signed, sealed, and reserved to him, which is done accordingly.
"HUGH L. BOND,
[SEAL.]

"Judge of the Circuit Court of the United States
for the 4th Circuit and District of E. Virginia."

The court found the facts generally for the plaintiff, and
gave judgment accordingly for $2832, with interest from the
3d of April, 1865.
To this judgment the defendant excepted, and the case
was now here on error.
In this court the case was submitted on printed briefs, the
only error assigned in that of the plaintiff in error being
that"The Circuit Court erred in overruling the demurrer to the
special count in the plaintiff's declaration."
It is proper to mention that in the case of Jones & Co. v.
City of Richmond,* on a suit against the city arising on the
18 Grattan, 517.
VOL. XV.

28

CITY OF RIOHMOND v. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

same resolutions, the Court of Appeals of Virginia had decided that the city was liable to the holders of receipts given
under the resolutions of the city council.
Mr. L. B. Page, for the city, plaintiff in error:
There was error in overruling the demurrer to the special
count in the declaration.
The liability of the city, if any there be, for the destruction of the plaintiff's liquors, can only be upheld upon the
ground that the city made a valid contract to pay for their
value. The destruction of this property was not a taking
of private property for public uses, for which compensation
is required to be made. The resolves of the city council
were made and executed for the public weal, at a time of
imminent peril. The rights of private property, sacred as
they are, must yield to the higher demands of the public
safety. 'In such cases salus populi, suprernaest lex. The pr6ceedings upon which the plaintiff below rested his claim,
are like those where an individual or a municipality raze
houses to prevent the spread of an existing conflagratiou;
and it is well settled that this may be done without responsibility to the owner for the damages he sustains.
In MJouse's Case, Lord Coke says:
"For the commonwealth, a man shall suffer damage, as for
the saving of a city or town, a house shall be plucked down if
the next be on fire. This every man may do, without being
liable to an action."
There was, therefore, no consideration for the undertaking of the city to pay the value of the liquors destroyed.
The judge who delivered the opinion derives the power of
the city to make the order and pledge, from the general welfare clause in the charter. Similar provisions are to be
found in the charter of nearly every municipality in the
land, and yet it is believed no case call be found where the
exercise of such powers has been maintained, unless there
,was express authority therefor, either in the charter or some
* 12 Reports, 63, 1b. 13.

Dec. 1872.]

CITY

OF RIOHMOND V. SMITH.

435

Opinion of the court.

general statute. It is manifest that the language of this
general provision must be construed with reference to the
other powers granted the city, otherwise the specific grant
of powers would have been useless, and it is further manifest that the power to be exercised under these general
words, must be exercised by fixed by-laws, rules, or ordinances, and not by some isolated and instantaneous act.
The decision is questioned by Dillon in his able treatise
on Municipal Corporations,* and it is there intimated that
the order for the destruction of liquors was not within the
scope of the corporate powers of the city.
But if the decision in Jones . Co. v. The City of Riclhmond,
as to the validity of this contract, be binding in thisforum
because it may be regarded as a local question, then it is insisted that the defendant in error has not brought himself
within the terms of the resolutions of the council so as to
entitle him to maintain this suit. He holds no receipt from
the commissioners authorized to destroy the property, and
the faith of the city is pledged only to those who hold such
receipts.
ir. W. F. Mattingly, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Prior to the surrender of the city of Richmond to the Federal forces, and in contemplation of that event, which took
place on the same day, the city council adopted the following resolutions: (1.) That it is the imperative duty of this
council, in case of the evacuation of this city by the government and army, to provide as far as it can for the immediate
destruction of the stock of liquor in the city. (2.) That a
-committee of twenty-five citizens in each ward be appointed
by the president to act in behalf of the city and proceed at
once to accomplish this object; that said committee destroy
on the premises all the liquor they can find, giving receipts
for the same to the holders. (3.) That the tith of the city
* Page 366, note 1.

CITY OF RICHMOND V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

be, and is hereby, pledgedfor the payment of the value of
all liquors so destroyed to the holders of said receipts.
Such evacuation of the said city by the government and
army as that contemplated by the first resolution did occur
during the evening of that day 'and the morning of the next
day, and it appears that the committee contemplated by the
second resolution was appointed, and that they, on the following day, in pursuance of said second resolution, destroyed
on the premises of the plaintiff the liquors mentioned in the
declaration, of the value specified in the bill of particulars
filed in the case and annexed to the declaration.
Payment having been refused the plaintiff brought an
action, of assumpsit against the corporation defendants to
recover the value of the liquors destroyed, as promised in
the third resolution. Service was made, and the defendants
having entered their appearance demurred to the special
count, but the court overruled the demurrer aiyd the parties
having waived a jury submitted the cause under the pleadings to the decision of the court.

Two pleas were pleaded by the defendants, as follows:
(i.) That they never undertook and promised as alleged in
the declaration. (2.) That prior to the destruction of the
liquors as alleged, the Confederate government determined,
in case the city should be evacuated as supposed, to set fire
to the warehouses and other buildings in the city, and that
they did on that day set fire to such warehouses and buildings, including the premises of the plaintiff, and that the
same were destroyed by fire; that the building in which the
liquors were stored took fire shortly after the liquors were
destroyed, and was consumed, and that the liquors, if they
had not been destroyed, would have been consumed.
Issue was joined upon the first plea and the plaintiff demurred to the second, and the court sustained the demurrer
and held the plea to be insufficient. Evidence was introduced by the plaintiff and the court rendered judgment in
his favor for the sum of two thousand eight, hundred and
thirty-two dollars, and the defendants excepted and removed
the cause into this court.

Dec. 1872.]

CITY OF RICHMIOND V. SMITH.

437

Opinion of the court.

Before proceeding to examine the questions which have
been discussed at the bar, it becomes necessary to refer to
certain other portions of the record, and more particularly
to the agreement.signed by the counsel waiving a trial by
jury and submitting all questions of law and fact arising on
the trial of the cause to the decision of the court. By that
agreement it is also-stipulated that the court may "draw all
the inferences and conclusions that a jury is authorized to
draw from the evidence, and with liberty to either party to
except to the judgment of the court in the same manner and
to the same extent that he might except to the verdict of a
jury, and to object to the same for the same reasons."
Parties have a right to waive a trial by jury and ubmit
the issues of fact to the determination of the Circuit Court,
but they cannot by any such agreement make it the duty of
this court to draw inferences and conclusions of fact from
the evidence, nor to examine such inferences and conclusions
of fact as may be drawn from the evidence by the Circuit
Court.*
Pursuant to that agreement the court made a general
finding as follows: "The court finds the facts for the plaintiff," and rendered judgment that the plaintiff recover of the
defendants the sum of two thousand eight hundred and
thirty-two dollars, with interest. Exceptions were taken at
the time to the opinions of the court given against the defendants, but there is no exception to any ruling of the court
in admitting or rejecting evidence, and no prayers for instructions of any kind were presented to the court..
Issues of fact in civil causes pending in the Circuit Courts
may, if the parties so agree, be tried and determined by the
court without the intervention of a jury, but such a submission necessarily implies that the facts shall be found by the
court, and the act provides that the finding may be either
general or special, and that it shall have the same effect as
' Shankhrnd v. Washington, 5 Peters, 397; Suydam v. Williamson, 20

Howard, 434.

CITY OF RICHMOND V. SBIITH.

ESup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the verdict of a jury. Consequently where the finding is
general nothing is open to review but the rulings or, perhaps,
the instructions of the court as presented in a bill of exceeptions, which is sufficient to show that nothing is open to reexamination in this case except the ruling of the court in
sustaining the demurrer of the plaintiff to the second plea
of the defendants.*
Much discussion of that question is certainly not required,
as the theory of the plea is that if the defendants had not
destroyed the liquors they would have been destroyed by
fire, which is alleging what cannot be known, as the liquors
might have been rescued from the conflagration by the energy of the citizens or of the police. Impending dangers
give no immunity to one man to destroy the property of
another. As well may a man in good health claim the right
to take the life of his neighbor who is sick, and offer as a
defence for his crime that the sick man would have died of
his disease if he, the defendant, had withheld the mortal
blow.
Suppose, howeter, the exceptions to the judgment are
sufficient to raise the questions which the defendants desire
to present for decision, still the court would feel constrained
to affirm the judgment upon the ground that the Supreme
Court of the State have decided in an analogous case that
the corporate authorities of the city had authority under the
charter of the city tb make the order for the destruction of
the liquors and to give the pledge for payment, and that the
defendants are responsible for the value of the liquors destroyed under that order. State courts certainly have a
right to expound the statutes of the State, and having done
so, those statutes, with the interpretation given to them by
the highest court of the State, become the rules of decision
in the Federal courts.t
* Miller v. Life Insurance Co., 12 Wallace, 295; 13 Stat. at Large, 601;
Bond v. Brown, 12 Howard, 251; Saulet v.Shepherd, 4 Wallace, 502.
t Jones v. Richmond, 18 Grattan, 517; Leffingwell v. Warren, 2 Black,

Dec. 1872.]

HANAUER V.

WOODRUFF.

Statement of the case.

Viewed in any reasonable light, the court is of the opinion
that there is no error in the record.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice BRADLEY, dissenting:
I dissent from the judgment of the court in this case. A
resolution adopted by the common council of an insurgent
city just before its occupation by our armies, for the purpose
of keeping any class of property out of its hands by destroying the.same, is a sheer act of war, and no contract or stipulation for indemnity to persons whose property was thus
destroyed had any validity after the collapse of the Confederacy. The owners of tobacco, cotton, or machinery destroyed on similar occasions are just as much entitled to set
up stipulations for indemnity. The wounded soldier has
just as good a right to claim damages from the Confederate
soldier who wounded him.

HANAUER V. WOODRUFF.
1. Bonds issued by authority of the convention of Arkansas, which attempted to carry that State out of the Union, for the purpose of supporting the war levied by the insurrectionary bodies then controlling
that State against the Federal government, do not constitute a valid
consideration for a promissor note, although bonds of that character
were used as a circulating medium in Arkansas and about Memphis in
the common and ordinary business transactions of the people.
2. The case of Th'loringtonv. Smith (8 Wallace, 1) approved, but distinguished
from the present case.

ON certificate of division in opinion between the judges
of the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas;
the case being thus:
Hanauer sued Woodruff in the court below upon a promissory note executed by the latter, at Memphis, Tennessee,
on the 22d of December, 1861, for $3099, payable twelve

