PELHAM V. WAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

It is, therefore, ordered that the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Errors of Connecticut be, and the same is hereby,
REVERSED, and the cause fiemanded to that court for further
proceedings
IN CONFORMITY WITH
THIS OPINION.

The CHIEF JUSTICE dissenting: I think it my duty
to express my dissent from the judgment just announced,
for the reasons stated in the opinion of the court in Hepburn
v. Griswold,* and in the dissenting opinions in Knox v. Lee,
and Parker v. Davis.
My brothers CLIFFORD and FIELD concur in this
dissent.

PELHAM V. WAY.
When, under the act of July 17th, 1862, "to suppress insurrection, to punish
treason and rebellion, to seize and confiscate the property of rebels,
and for other purposes," the libel and monition have been framed in
such a way, and the marshal has served his process in such a way, that
notwithstanding the completion of the proceeding and a sale in form,
intended to divest the rebel of his property, the property has not, after
,all, been divested in law, and the rebel's rights remain uninjured, he
cannot in an action against the marshal for a false return recover more
than nominal damages.

ER-oR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the

District of Indiana.
An act of Congress, approved July 17th, 1862, and entitled "An act to suppress insurrection, to punish treason
and rebellion, to seize and confiscate the property of rebels,
and for other purposes," among other things, provided,
"that if any person within any State or Territory of the
United States other tlidn those named as aforesaid after the
passage of this act, being engaged in armed rebellion against
the government of the United States, or aiding or abetting
such rebellion, shall not, within sixty days after public warn* 8 Wallace, 603.

Dec. 1872.]

PELHAM V. WAY.
Statement of the case.

ing and proclamation duly given and made by the President
of the United States, cease to aid, countenance, and abet
such rebellion, and return to his allegiance to the United
States, all the estate, property, money, stocks, and credits of
such person, shall be liable to seizure as aforesaid, and it
shall be the duty of the President to seize and use them as
aforesaid, or the proceeds thereof;" and further, "that to
secure the condemnation and sale of any such property,
proceedings in ren shall be instituted in the name of the
United States," in the District Court; and that the proceeding shall conform as nearly as may be to proceedings in
admiralty and revenue cases; "and if said property, whether
real or personal, shall be found to have belonged to a person
engaged in rebellion, or who has given aid or comfort
thereto, the same shall be condemned as enemies' property."
The President of the United States, by proclamation duly
made on the 25th day of July, A.D. 1862, issued public
warning to all persons contemplated by the said provision,
and the sixty days therein specified expired on the 23d day
of September, A.D. 1862.
This act had twice at least been the subject of construction
in this court. It came up once in Pelharn v. Rose,* where
this court took a distinction between the evidence of a
credit and the credit itself; and held that when the debtor
hhd given to his creditor a promissory note, and that note
was in existence, and the thing proceeded against, it was necessary to the legal service of any monition that the marshal
should seize and take it into his possession and control.
The corollary was, that when the note, at the commencement of and during the pendence of proceedings to confiscate was beyond the jurisdiction of the marshal, there was
no due service and no confiscation.
The same statute came up for consideration at a later date
in Miller v. United Slates.t
In that case a libel had been filed under the act to confiscate railroad stocks belonging to a rebel, and the notice, in* 9 'Wallace, 103.

t11 Id. 296.

PE.LHAM V. WAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

stead of being served on the owner, was served on the officers of the railroad company.
The court held that the service was good. It said:
"The act of Congress made it the duty of the President to
cause the seizure of all the estate, property, money, stocks, credits,
and effects of the persons described, and in order to secure the
condemnation and sale of such property after its seizure, directed
judicial proceedings in rem to be instituted. It contemplated
that every kind of property mentioned could be seized effectually
in some mode. It had in view not only tangible property, but
that which is in action. It named stocks and credits; but it gave
no directions respecting the mode of seizure. It is, therefore, a
fair conclusion that the mode was intended to be such as is
adapted to the nature of the property directed to be seized, and
in use in courts of revenue and admiralty. The modes of seizure
must vary. Lands cannot be seized as movable chattels may.
Actual manucaption cannot be taken of stocks and credits. But
it does not follow from this that they are incapable of being
seized, within the meaning of the act of Congress. Seizure may
be either actual or cofistructive. .

.

. Garnishment almost every-

where exists. What is that but substantial attachment. It arrests the property in the hands of the garnishee, interferes with
the owner's or creditor's control over it, subjects it to the judgment of the court, and therefore has the effect of a seizure. In
all cases where the garnishee is a debtor, or where the garnishment is of stocks, it is effected by serving notice upon the debtor
or corporation. A corporation holds its stock as a quasi trustee
for its stockholders. The service of an attachment, though it
is but a notice, binds the debt or the stock in the hands of the
garnishee from the time of the service, and thenceforward it is
potentially in 'grernio legis.' The statute declares that proceedings to confiscate shall conform, as nearly as may be, to proceedings in admiralty or revenue cases. Now, it is legitimate in
certain proceedings in courts of admiralty, to attach credits and
effects of such an intangible nature that they cannot be taken
into actual possession by the marshal, and the mode of attachment is by notice, dependent upon statutory enactment."
I The court accordingly held that the confiscation and sale
had made a valid transfer of the stock.

Dec.1872.]

PELHAMI V.

WAY.

Statement of the case.

Under this already mentioned act of Congress, of July
17th, 1862, the United States, in 1863, filed a libel of information in the District Court for the District of Indiana,
"against thefollowing describedcredits and effects of Henry Pelham, . .. that is to say, one promissory ?ote dated March 1st,
1862, for the sum of $7000, and due four years after date, executed by Lewis Pelham to Henry Pelham." Lewis Pelham
was still in Indiana, and within the jurisdiction of the marshal; but Henry Pelham was in Kentucky, outside of the
marshal's jurisdiction, and had the note with hint there. The
libel, after reciting the act of July 17th, 1862, and making
other proper recitals, alleged that" by force of the said statute,
and the public warning of the President of the United States,
the said estate, credits, and effects of him, the said Henry Pelham, so described as aforesaid, became and were forfeited to
the United States, and that the same were liable to be condemned as enemies' property."
The writ of monition stated that a libel had been filed by
the district attorney against "one promissory note," and
commanded the marshal "to attach the' note, and to detain
the same in your custody until the further order of the court
concerning the same," and "to give due notice to all persons
claiming the same," &c.
The marshal made returh, on the back of the writ, as
follows:
"May 2, 1863.

"In obedience to the within warrant, I have arrested the
property within-mentioned, and have cited all persons having or
pretending to have any right, title, or interest therein, as by
the said warrant I am commanded to do.
"D. G. RosE,
"1Marshal."

A summons was at the same time issued against Lewis
Pelham, the maker of the note, which was served on him
by the marshal, and he appeared and answered, admitting
the facts alleged in the libel.
The fact of a publication of notice to all other parties in
interest was proven, and a decree of condemnation was

PELHAM V. 'WAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

made, and a writ of venditioni exponas issued to the marshal,
who returned that he had offered for sale the promissory
note, and sold it to Lewis Pelham for $3000.
Hereupon, the rebellion being suppressed, Henry Pelham
sued the sureties of the marshal (lie being dead), in the District Court for the District of Kentucky, for damages alleged
to have accrued by the marshal's false return in the case.
The declaration alleged a false return "to a writ of monition in a libel by the United States against the following described credits and effects of Henry Pelham,... that is to say,
one promissory note for $7000, executed by Lewis Pelham
to the said Henry." It was an admitted fact in the case
that the note was, from the issuing of the monition in the
proceedings for confiscation, till, and at the time of the return to the monition by the marshal that he had arrested
the same, outside of the jurisdiction of the said District
Court, and not within the territorial limits of the State of
Indiana; but, on the contrary, was, during.all that time in
the possession of the said plaintiff in the State of Kentucky,
where he resided.
The plaintiff requested the court to instruct the jury as
follows:
"If the jury find, from the evidence, that the allegations of
the declaration are true, they will find for the plaintiff, and
assess his damages in the amount of the note, with interest
thereon from maturity."
The court refused to give this instruction, and, on the
contrary, charged that under the conceded facts in the case,
the plaintiff was entitled to no more than nominal damages.
A verdict was rendered accordingly, and the refusal to
charge as requested, and the charge as given, were now
assigned for error.
Messrs. Coburn, Dye, and Harris,for the appellants; Mr.I.
.B. Niles, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
That the errors assigned are unfounded is very plain, if

Dec. 1872.]

PELHAI V. WAY.
Opinion of the court.

the record of confiscation in the District Court is not a bar to
the recovery by the plaintiff of the debt formerly due to him
from Lewis Pelham, and which was evidenced by the note
dated March 1, 1862. The decree in that case is doubtless
conclusive of all matters then adjudicated upon, and, as it
was a proceeding in rem, the subject is to be ascertained
from the record, from the information, the monition, and
from the marshal's return. If they show that the "credit,"
or the debt due from Lewis Pelham to the plaintiff, was
attached, and if the decree was upon the title to that credit,
the plaintiff has been divested of his interest therein, and
divested in consequence of the marshal's false return. On
the other hand, if the information, the monition to the marshal, his return, the decree of the court, and the marshal's
sale, all relate to another subject, not to the "debt" or
"credit," then the plaintiff has not been divested of the
credit, and he has sustained no appreciable injury in consequence of the fidsity of the marshal's return. Undoubtedly
a debt or a credit was capable of seizure under the confiscation acts, and of subsequent condemnation and sale. This
we ruled in Miller v. The United States,* and we then showed
how property in action could be seized and brought within
the jurisdiction of the court. But the question here is
whether the debt was seized, or whether the subject of the
seizure, and the consequent libel, was only an evidence of
the debt, a thing capable of actual nmanipulation and delivery. That it was the lattetr an inspection of the record, and
the decision of this court in Pelhan v. Rose,t sufficiently
establish. The libel was against a promissory note, particularly describing it, and it was that, not the debt of which it
was evidence, that was claimed to have been forfeited. The
monition was against the promissory note, and nothing else.
The marshal was commanded to attach the note and detain
the same in his custody. It made no allusion to any right
in action. The marshal's return was that he had arrested
the property (described in the monition). The decree of
* 11 Wallace, 268.

t 9 Id. 103.

REYBOLD V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

the court was that the note should be exposed to sale, and
the sale was of the property mentioned in the libel and in
the decree. Plainly, a debt is distinguishable from any instrument of evidence of the debt. This was the view taken
of the case in Pelham v. Rose. The language of this court
then was as follows: "In. the case at bar a visible thing,
capable of physical possession, is the subject of the libel.
It is the promissory note of Pelham which constitutes the
res against which the proceeding is instituted, and not a
'credit,' or debt, which the note is supposed by the defendant's counsel to represent." For this reason it was held
that to effect its seizure it was necessary for the marshal to
take the note into his actual custody and control. That
case determined that the arrest returned by' the marshal
was not a seizure of the debt, and consequently the debt
was not confiscated. It follows that the plaintiff has shown
no injury sustained by him which entitles him to more than
nominal damages.
JUDGMENT AFFIR!MED.

REYBOLD V. UNITED STATES.
The government chartered a vessel during the war of the rebellion; the
owners agreeing to keep her "tight, stanch, strong, well-manned," &c.,
and to bear the marine risks; the war risks tobe borne by the government.
The vessel was to proceed, "with thefirst good oppowtunity, to such ports
and places as ordered and directed by the quartermaster of the government." On the 20th January, 1865, the vessel being then in the Potomac
at Washington, and the navigation considerably obstructed by ice, the
quartermaster consulted her captain about her condition and capacity,
and was informed that she was sheathed with iron, and was of capacity
to take a certain number of men and horses, which the government
wanted to transport. The quartermaster then ordered the captain to receive the men and horses, and to proceed on the next morning down the
river to City Point. The captain made no objection to the order, because, as he testified, "lie considered it imperative as a military order,
and as such obeyed it; though if he had considered that he could have
used his judgment he would not have left the wharf, as he did not con-

