284

STATE TAX

ON

RAILWAY GROSS RECEIPTS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

STATE TAX ON RAILWAY GROSS RECEIPTS.
[READ

G RAILROAD COMPANY v. tPENNSYLVANIA.]

1. A statute of a State imposing a tax upon the gross receipts of railroad
companies is not repugnant to the Constitution of the United States,
though the gross receipts are made up in part from freights received for
transportation of merchandise from the State to another State, or into
the State from another.
2. Such a tax is not a regulation of interstate commerce.
3. Nor is it a tax on imports or exports.
4. Nor is it a tax upon interstate transportation.
5. A distinction made between a tax upon freights carried between States,
because of their carriage, and a tax upon the fruits of such transportation after they have become intermingled with the other property of the
carrier.
ERROR to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania; the case
being thus:
By an act of the legislature of Pennsylvania, passed on
the 23d day of February, 1866, entitled "An act to amend
the revenue laws of the Commonwealth," a tax was imposed
upon the gross receipts of certain companies. The second
section was as follows:

"In addition to the taxes now provided by law, every railroad, canal, and transportation company incorporated under
the laws of this Commonwealth, and not liable to the tax upon
income under existing laws, shall pay to the Commonwealth a
tax of three-fourths of one per centum upon the gross receipts
of said company; the said tax shall be paid semi-annually upon
the first days of July and January, commencing on the first day
of July, 1866; and for the purpose of ascertaining the amount
of the same, itshall be the duty of the treasurer, or other proper
oflicer of said company, to transmit to the auditor-general a
statement, under oath or affirmation, of the amount of gross

receipts of the said company during the preceding six months;
and if such company shall refuse, or fail, for a period of thirty
days after such tax becomes due, to make said return, or to pay
the same, the amount thereof, with an addition often per centum

Dec. 1872.]

STATE TAX oN RAILWAY

GRoss

RECEIPTS.

285

Statement of the ease.

thereto, shall be collected for the use of the Commonwealth, as
other taxes are recoverable by law from said companies."
Under this statute the accounting officers of Pennsylvania
stated an account between the Commonwealth and the Reading Railroad Company, for tax on the gross receipts of the
company, for the half year ending December 81st, 1867. The
company, as stated in a preceding case,* was a corporation
created by the State of Pennsylvania. Its road was between
Philadelphia and the coal regions of Pennsylvania, and one
large source of the company's profit was the transportation
on the road of coal from the coal regions to a place near
Philadelphia, called Port Richmond, or to the Schuylkill
Canal, from both which places most of it went to States
other than Pennsylvania.
The account, as stated by the accounting officers of the
Commonwealth, was based on returns made by the company,
which discriminated between receipts from freight transported to points within, and receipts from freight exported
to points without, the State of Pennsylvania. The latter
were returned under protest against their liability to taxation, and the tax assessed against these receipts made the
subject of the present controversy. The company, in refusing to pay, alleged that the act of February 23d, 1866-so
far as it taxed that portion of the gross receipts which were
derived from transportation from the State to another State,
or into the State from another,-was unconstitutional and
void, because, among other reasons, it was in conflict with
the fourth paragraph of the eighth section of the first article
of the Constitution of the United States, which ordains that" Congress shall have power to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several States."
And with the second paragraph of the tenth section of
the same article, which ordains that"No State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any
imposts or duties on imports or exports, except what may be
absolutely necessary for executing its inspection laws."
* See supra, 234.

286

STATE TAX ON RAILWAY GROSS RECEIPTS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania adjudged that the
act was not in conflict with either of the clauses of the Constitution relied on; and to this, its judgment, the present
writ of error was taken.
.Blessrs. James . Gowen and 1. A. Lamberton, for the
plaintiff in error:
We assume that the position taken by us in the case of
The State .FreightTax*-the position, namely, that a State tax
upon freight generally is unconstitutional, as applied to the
transportation of merchandise from one State to anotherwill be sustained by the judgment of this court. Setting
out, then, as with a postulate, that such a tax is ,unconstitutional, we say:
1st. There is no difference, in principle, between a freight tax
regulated by reference to the articles transported and such a tax
levied in the shape of a percentage of the money receivedfor transportation.
Is it not unreasonable to say that a tax of two cents per
ton on the transportation of coal is unconstitutional, and yet
that a tax of one per cent. on every two dollars (or two
cents) paid for the transportation of coal is constitutional ?
If State taxation of interstate commerce is forbidden, a tax
on the transportation of a ton of freight, from one State to
another must be equally illegal, whether the sum to be paid
is specially mentioned or is left to be ascertained by a simple
arithmetical calculation. The great object of the constitutional provision giving Congress the power to regulate commerce between the States was to prevent the States from
embarrassing the intercourse which was intended should
freely exist between these bodies, designed to be united for
many purposes into one nation, with equal rights and privileges conferred upon all. If any one could tax the commodities carried it could exclude their passage through the
State or across its lines. Is not a tax imposed on the amount
* Supra, 237-245.

The case had just been argued.

Dec. 1872.]

STATE TAX oN RAILWAY GROSS RECEIPTS.

287

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

of freight received by a transportation company the same in*
efict as one charged against the article carried? If the
State can charge three-fburths of one per cent. on the money
paid for freight, it can charge fifty per cent. on all money
received, and although it can undoubtedly tax its own citizens who are represented in its legislative bodies to any extent that the law-makers may see proper, it cannot thus
increase the price of transportation to the people of other
States.
2d. A tax upon the gross receipts of a transportationcompany
is necessarily a tax upon transportation.
In the Bank of Commerce v. The Commissioners of Taxes,*
it was held that Federal securities held by a bank in New
York, as part of the bank's capital, could not be constitutionally taxed under a law of that State which took the actual
value of the entire capital stock as the basis of taxation,
although it was strongly urged that the Federal securities
-were not specifically and eo nomine taxed; that no discrimination was made between them and other property; and
that, in fact, the tax was upon the aggregate value of the
property of the bank, irrespective of the character of the
component parts of that property. This court, however,
unanimously refused to admit that the law of New York
did not tax Federal loans, because the tax was imposed indiscriminately upon all the property of the bank.
So a tax upon the gross receipts of a company is, necessarily, a tax upon its receipts from transportation, or any
other source; but, when the company is a transportation
company, and the tax is chargeable upon the gross receipts
of transportation companies only, it is plain that the tax was
practically intended to be a tax on gross receipts from transportation, and on nothing else. The gross receipts of a
transportation company must, in nearly every case, be receipts from transportation alone.
The Bank Tax Caset was but an affirmance of the principle on which the case we refer to was ruled. It was there
* 2 Black, 620.

-t 2 Wallace, 200.

288

STATE TAX ON RAILWAY GRoss liECEIPTS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the defendant in error.

held that a tax on a valuation equal to the amount of the capital
stock of a bank, paid in, or secured to be paid in, was really and
substantially a tax upon that portion of the capital stock
which consisted of the loans of the United States, notwithstanding it was strenuously urged that the tax was the same,
in substance, as a tax of a specific sum upon the franchises
and privileges of the bank, irrespective of the character of
its investments, or, to use the language of Denio, C.J., in

Utica v. Churchill,* a tax "like that annexed to the franchise
as a royalty for the grant," and notwithstanding the form of
the tax appears to have been specially devised to obviate the
objections sustained in the case of The *Bank of Commerce v.

The Commissioners.
Messrs. F. Carroll Brewster and Lewis Waln Smith, contra:
Even if we conceded, which we do not, the unconstitutionality of the tax on freight generally-the matter just now
argued in the preceding case-the unconstitutionality of the
tax on gross receipts generally by no means follows.

First. The tax of three-fourths of one per cent. on all gross
receipts of a.transportationcormpany is not a tax on property, but
on the franchises of the corporation.
This question came before this court in the case of the

Society for Savings v. Coite,t and in ProridettInstitution v. Massachusetts.t The identity between the taxes there and the
one here, so far as the effect on the corporations was concerned, will be noticed at once. The tax being, therefore,
on the franchises of the corporation, and not on the property, it is clearly not included iu the prohibited regulation
of commerce, even according to the pretensions of the plaintiffs in error.

Second. Even if the tax on gross receipts be considered as a tax
on property, it is still constitutional, or within the power of the
State so to tax it.
In Woodruff v. Parham,§ "the State levied a tax on the
" 33 New York, 240.

t 6 Wallace, 594.

$ Ib. 611.

8 Wallace, 123.

Dec. 1872.]

STATE TAX oN RAILWAY

Gnoss RECEIPTS.

289

Argument for the defendant in error.

gross sales of an auctioneer. He set up that these sales,
which were of goods in unbroken packages from other States,
were exempt. The court decided they were taxable. To
the same effect is
ainson v. Lott.* These cases establish
this, as far as adjudication can establish anything, that the
States have a right to tax the gross receipts of a citizen
transacting business, be the receipts derived from what
source soever, and that such a tax is not unconstitutional,
provided that the tax does not institute any discrimination
against non-residents.
If constitutional, it is not necessary for us to explain why
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania has seen fit to levy, in
regard to some corporations in her borders, a tax on gross
receipts rather than on something else for which she might
have taxed them, yet, as showing the propriety of this sort
of tax, sometimes, we may, perhaps, take the freedom to say
a word further to the court on this subject.
The greater portion of the revenues of Pennsylvania are derived from the taxes levied on corporations. There are various
forms of these taxes. In some cases they are levied on the
capital stock; in most, perhaps, on net earnings, or income.
The Commonwealth adapts the form of the tax'to the particular kind of corporation, so that its collection can be facilitated. Experience has shown her that it is better to charge
a mining company l large percentage, as three per cent. on
net earnings, and to charge a railroad company a small one,
as three-fourths of one per cent., on gross receipts. The
reason why the gross receipts are selected as a basis of taxation of a railroad company, was doubtless because the State
found that a large number of railroads were expending their
receipts in improvements, and charging these as expenses.
The cost of every improvement was deducted from the "net
earnings," and while thus enriching themselves the railroad
companies were avoiding taxation. The State,, therefore,
takes a low percentage on the gross receipts of railroads;
and taxes them, whether they are expended in improve* 8 Wallace, 148.
VOL.

xv.

19

290'

STATE TAX ON RAILWAY GROSS RECEIPTS.

[SUp. Ct.

Reply.

ments or declared as a dividend. Such a course is both just
to the corporation, and politic on the part of the State.
•Beply: There is nothing in The Society for Savings v. Coite,
to indicate -that the court meant to question the authority of
the cases which we have cited from 2d Black and 2d Wallace. It was held in The Society for Savings v. Coite, that a
statute of a State requiring savings societies authorized to
receive deposits, but without authority to issue bills, and
having no capital stock or stockho ds,
e to pay annually into the
State treasury a sum equal to three-fourths of one per cent.
on the total amount of their deposits on"a given day, imposes
a franchise tax, not a tax on property.
The court, while admitting that the tax would have been
unconstitutional, as to deposits invested in Federal securities-if it could be considered a tax on the property represented by such securities-held, that it was not a tax on the
property, but on the franchises or privileges of the defendant
corporation. The facts of the corporation having no capital
stock (its charter authorizing it to improve deposits for the
benefit of its depositors), of its investments really belonging
to its depositors, and of the tax being assessed not upon the
actual value of the deposits, were all considered as showing
that the tax was not imposed on the property, but on the
functions, franchises, or corporate privileges of the defendant.
The succeeding case of The Provident Institution v. MZlassachusetts, is to the same effect.
Neither tends to prove that a tax on the gross receipts of
a transportation company is not a tax upon transportation,
nor that a tax upon interstate transportation is not a tax
upon, and a regulation of, interstate commerce.
That the tax upon the gross receipts of railroad, canal,
and transportation companies, imposed by the Pennsylvania
statute, was intended to be a tax upon their franchises,
can hardly be asserted in face of the fact that most other
incorporated companies in the State are taxed, confessedly,
upon their net earnings or income. The value of a franchise

Dec. 1872.]

STATE TAX

ON RAILWAY

GROSS

RECEIPTS.

291

Reply.

depends upon the profit derived from it; and the gross receipts of a railroad or canal company are not the measure
of the profit made. But, in truth, the question is not, whether a tax which is alleged to operate as a regulation of c6mmerce between the States or with foreign nations, is or is
not a tax upon persons, property, trades or occupations, but
whether it does really operate as a regulation of such commerce; since it is practically impossible for any State to
collect a tax except from persons or property within her territory. It was contended that the tax upon importers in
Brown v. Maryland,* was not a tax upon imports, but upon
a business or occupation carried on in Maryland; that the
tax on bills of lading in Almy v. Galifornia,t was a stamp
tax, and not a duty on exports; and it might have been, and
probably was, urged in Hays v. The Pacific Mail Steamship
Company,j that the State of California had an undoubted
right to tax ships as well as all other property within her
territory. In Orandallv. .Vevada,§ the tax chargeable against
the carriers of passengers leaving the State was defended as
a tax upon the business of carriers within the State.
When the court decided, in The Savings Society v. Coite,
and in The Provident Institution v, Massachsetls, that the
taxes there in question were charged upon the business of
the corpo-ration, and not upon their property, the unexpressed premise of the argument no doubt was, that such
taxes did not practically interfere with the power of the
Uiiited States to borrow money; just as in Nathan v. Lodsianajj a State tax on exchange and money brokers was held
not to interfere with the power of Congress to regulate commerce. "Under the law," said McLean, J., in the lastmentioned case, "every person is free to buy or sell bills of
exchange as may be necessary in his business transactions,
but he is required to pay the tax if he engages in the business of a money or exchange broker." But can it be said
that the power of Congress to regulate commerce between
the States, and its actual regulation of it by leaving it free
12 Wheaton, 419.
6 Wallace, 36.

-24 Howard, 169.
jJ 8 Howard, 73.

1 17 Id. 596.

292

STATE TAX ON RAILWAY

GROSS

RECEIPTS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and unrestricted, are not interfered with by a State regulation which exacts a certain sum for every passenger and
every bale of goods that cross her boundary? or can it be
reasonably said that every person is free to pass or repass,
or to send his goods, without being taxed, provided he does
not use the railroads or canals of the State?
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The question is whether the act of the legislature of Pennsylvania passed February 23d, 1866, under which a tax was
levied upon the Philadelphia and Reading Railroad Company of three-quarters of one per cent. upon the gross receipts of the company, during the six months ending December 31st, 1867, is in conflict with the third clause of the
eighth section, article first, of the Constitution of the United
States, which confers upon Congress power to "1regulate
commerce with foreign nations, and among the several
States, and with the Indian tribes;" or whether it is in conflict with the second clause of the tenth section of the same
article, which prohibits the States, "without the consent of
Congress, fom laying any imposts or duties on imports or
exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for executing their inspection laws." It was claimed in the State
courts that the act is unconstitutional so far as it taxes thLt
portion of the gross receipts of companies which are derived from transportation from the State to another State,
or into the State from another, and the Supreme Court bf
tht State having decided adversely to the claim, the case has
been brought here for review.
We have recently decided in another case between the
parties to the present suit, that freight transported from
State to State is not subject to State taxation, because thus
transported. Such a burden we regard as an invasion of
the domain of Federal power, a regulation of interstate
commerce, which Congress only can make. If then a tax
upon the gross receipts of a railroad, or a canal company,
derived in part from the carriage of goods from one State
to another is to be regarded as a tax upon interstate trans-

Dec. 1872.]

STATE TAX ON RAILWAY GROSS RECEIPTS.

293

Opinion of the court.

portation, the question before us is already decided. The
answer which must be given to it depends upon the prior
question, whether a tax upon gross receipts of a transportation company is a tax upon commerce, so far as that commerce consists in moving goods or passengers across State
lines. No doubt every tax upon personal property, or upon
occupations, business, or franchises, affects more or less the
subjects, and the operations of commerce. Yet it is not
everything that affects commerce that amounts to a regulation of it, within the meaning of the Constitution. We think
it may safely be asserted that the States have authority to
tax the estate, real and personal, of all their corporations,
including carrying companies, precisely as they may tax
similar property when belonging to natural persons, and to
the same extent. We think also that such taxation may be
laid upon a valuation, or may be an excise, and that in exacting an excise tax from their corporations, the States are
not obliged to impose a fixed sum upon the franchises or
upon the value of them, but they may demand a graduated
contribution, proportioned either to the value of the privileges granted, or to the extent of their exercise, or to the
results of such exercise. No mode of effecting this, and no
forms of expression which have not a meaning beyond this
can be regarded as violating the Constitution.

A power to

tax to this extent may be essential to the healthy existence
of the State governments, and the Federal Constitution
ofigbt not to be so construed as to impair, much less destroy, anything that is necessary to their efficient existence.
But, on the other hand, the rightful powers of the National
government must be defended against nvasion from any
quarter, and if it be, as we have seen, that a tax on goods
and commodities transported into a State, or out of it, or a
tax upon the owner of such goods for the right thus to
transport them, is a regulation of interstate commerce, such
as is exclusively within the province of Congress, it is, as
we have shown in the former case, inhibited by the Constitution.
Is, then, the tax, imposed by the act of February 23d,

294

STATE TAX ON RAILWAY GROSS RECEIPTS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

1866, a tax upon freight transported into, or out of, the
State, or upon the owner of freight, for the right of thus
transporting it? Certainly it is not directly. Very manifestly it is a tax upon the railroad company, measured in
amount by the extent of its business, or the degree to which
its franchise is exercised. That its ultimate effect may be
to increase the cost of transportation must be admitted. So
it must be admitted that a tax upon any article of personal
property, that may become a subject of commerce, or upon
any instrument of commerce, affects commerce itself. If
the tax be upon the instrument, such as a stage-coach, a
railroad car, or a canal, or steamboat, its tendency is to increase the cost of transportation. Still it is not a tax upon
transportation, or upon commerce, and it has never been
seriously doubted that such a tax may be laid. A tax upon
landlords as such affects rents, and generally increases them,
but it would be a misnomer to call it a tax upon tenants. A
tax upon the occupation of a physician or an attorney, measured by the income of his profession, or upon a banker,
graduated according to the amount of his discounts or deposits, will hardly be claimed to be a tax on his patients,
clients, or customers, though the burden ultimately falls
upon .them. It is not their money which is taken by the
governmuent. The law exacts nothing from them. But
when, as in the other case between these parties, a company
is made an instrument by the laws to collect the tax from
transporters, when the statute plainly contemplates that the
contribution is to come from them, it may properly be said
they are the persons charged. Such is not this case. The
tax is laid upon the gross receipts of the company; laid upon
a fund which has become the property of the company,
mingled with its other property, and possibly expended in
improvements or put out at interest. The statute does not
look beyond the corporation to those who may have contributied to its treasury. The tax is not levied, and, indeed
such a tax cannot be, until the expiration of each half-year,
and until the money received for freights, and from other
sources of income, has actually come into the company's

Dec. 1872.]

STATE TAX ON RAILWAY GROSS RECEIPTS.

295

Opinion of the court.

hands. Then it has lost its distinctive character as freight
earned, by having become incorporated into the general
mass of the company's property. While it must be conceded that a tax upon interstate transportation is invalid,
there seems to be no stronger reason for denying the power
of a State to tax the fruits of such transportation after they
have become intermingled with the general property of the
carrier, than there is for denying her power to tax goods
which have been imported, after their original packages
have been broken, and after they have been mixed with the
mass of personal property in the country. That such a tax
is not unwarranted is plain. Thus, in Brown v. Maryland,*
where it was ruled that a State tax cannot be levied, by the
requisition of a license, upon importers of foreign goods by
the bale or package, or upon other persons selling the same
by bale or package, Chief Justice Marshall, considering the
dividing line between the prohibition upon the States against
taxing imports and their general power to tax persons and
property within their limits, said that "when the importer
has so acted upon the thing imported that it has become incorporated and mixed up with the mass of property in the
country, it has, perhaps, lost its distinctive character as an
import, and has become subject to the taxing power of the
State." This distinction in the liabilities of property in its
different stages has ever since been recognized.t It is most
important to the States that it should be. And yet if the
States may tax at pleasure imported goods, so soon as the
importer has broken the original packages, and made the
first sale, it is obvious the tax will obstruct importation quite
as much as would an equal impost upon the unbroken packages before they have gone into the markets. And this is
so, though no discrimination be made.
There certainly is a line which separates that power of
the Federal government to regulate commerce among the
12 Wheaton, 419-441.
f- Waring v. The Mayor, 8 Wallace, 122; Pervear v. The Commonwealth,
5 Id. 479.
*

296

STATE TAX

ox RAILWAY GRoss RECEIPTS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

States, which is exclusive, from the authority of the States
to tax persons' property, business, or occupations, within
their limits. This line is sometimes difficult to define with
distinctness. It is so in the present case; but we think it
may safely be laid down that the gross receipts of railroad
or canal companies, after they have reached the treasury of
the carriers, though they may have been derived in part
from transportation of freight between States, have become
subject to legitimate taxation. It is not denied that net
earnings of such corporations are taxable by State authority
without any inquiry after their sources, and it is difficult to
state any well-founded distinction between the lawfulness
of a tax upon them and that of a tax upon gross receipts, or
between the effects they work upon commerce, except perhaps in degree. They may both come from charges made
for transporting freight or passengers between the States,
or out of exactions from the freight itself. Net earnings
are a part of the gross receipts.
There is another view of this case to which brief reference
may be made. It is not to be questioned that the States
may tax the franchises of companies created by them, and
that the tax may be proportioned either to the value of a
franchise granted, or to the extent of its exercise; nor is it
deniable that gross receipts may be a measure of proximate
value, or, if not, at least of the extent of enjoyment. If
the tax be, in fact, laid upon the companies, adopting such a
measure imposes no greater burden upon any freight or
business from which the receipts come than would an equal
tax laid upon a direct valuation of the franchise. In both
cases, the necessity of higher charges to meet the exaction
is the same.
Influenced by these considerations, we hold that the act
of the legislature of the State imposing a tax upon the
plainti.fIs in error equal to three-quarters of one per cent.
of their gross receipts is not invalid because in conflict with
the power of Congress to regulate commerce among the
States. And under the decision made in Wood'ruff v. Par-

Dec. 1872.]

STATE TAX ON RAILWAY

GROSS RECEIPTS.

297

Opinion of M1iller, Field, and Hunt, JJ., dissenting.

hamr:: it is not invalid because it lays an impost or duty on
imports or exports.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice MILLER (with whom concurred Justices
FIELD and HUNT), dissenting.
The principles announced in the case of the tax on the ton
of freight, and the argument by which those principles are
supported, meet my full approval. They lie at the foundation of our present Federal Constitution. The burdens
which States, possessed of safe and commodious harbors,
imposed by way of taxes called imposts upon the transit of
merchandise through those ports to their destination for
consumption in other States, were the cause as much as any
one class of grievances of the formation of that Constitution; and the reluctance of the little State of Rhode Island
to give up the tax which she thus levied on the c6mmerce
of her sister States through the harbor of Newport, then
the largest importing place in the Union, was the reason
that she refused for nearly two years to ratify that instrument.
The clauses of the Constitution which forbid thdStates to
levy duties on imports, and which gave to Congress the
right to regulate commerce, were designed to remedy that
evil, and have always been supposed to be sufficient for that
purpose, The one is the complement of the other, and
something more. The first forbids the States to levy the
tax on goods imported friom abroad. The second places the
entire control of commerce, with the exception of such as
may be begun and completed within a single State, under
the control of Congress. That commerce which is carried
on with foreigners, or with the Indian tribes, or between
citizens of different States, is under the jurisdiction of the
General Government.
The opinion which affirms the tax of so much per ton on
* 8 Wallace, 123.

298

STATr TAX ON RAILWAY GROSS RECEIPTS.

[Sup. CL

Opinion of Miller, Field, and Hunt, JJ., dissenting.

freight carried from one State to another to be a tax upon
transportation, and therefore a regulation of the commerce
among the several States forbidden by the Constitution,
receives the approbation of all the members of this court
except two. And it is there declared that any tax upon the
freight so transported, or upon the carrier on account of
such transportation, is within the prohibition.
Is the tax in the preset case also within the evil intended
to be remedied by the commerce clause of the Constitution?
It seems to me that to hold that the tax on freight is within
it, and that on gross receipts arising from such transportation is not, is "to keep the word of promise to the ear and
break it to the hope." If the State of Pennsylvania, availing herself of her central position across the great line of
necessary commercial intercourse between the east and the
west, and of the fact that all the ways of land and water
carriage must go through her territory, is determined to
support her government and pay off her debt by a tax on
this commerce, it is of small moment that we say she cannot
tax the goods so transported, but may tax every dollar paid
for such transportation. Her tax by the ton being declared
void, she has only to effect her purpose by increasing correspondingly her tax on gross receipts. In either event the
tax is one for the privilege of transportation within her
borders; in either case the tax is one on transportation.
That the tax on gross receipts comes not only ultimately,
and in some remote way, but directly out of the. freight
transported, it is hardly worth while to argue. The railroad
company makes precisely the same calculation in making
its business profitable in relation to the cost and expenses
of transportation, and the price to be demanded for it, in
regard to this tax, that it does in reference to the tax on the
ton of freight, and it imposes this additional burden for the
benefit of the State in fixing the price of transportation.
The tax does not depend on the profits of the companies.
It is the same whether the profits or the losses preponderate
in a given year. A road may do a large carrying trade at a
loss, but the State says, nevertheless, "for every dollar that

Dec. 1872.]

STATE TAX ON RAILWAY GROSS RECEIPTS.

299

Opinion of Miller, Field, and Hunt, JJ., dissenting.

you receive for transportation I claim one cent or half a
cent."
It is conceded that railroads may be taxed as other corporations are taxed on their capital stock, on their property,
real and personal, and in any other way that does not impose necessarily a burden on transportation between one
State and another. But a railroad or canal company differs
from corporations for banking, insurance, or manufacturing
purposes in this, that while their business is only remotely,
or incidentally, connected with commerce, the business of
roads and canals, namely, transportationof persons and property,
is itself commerce. So much of said commerce as is exclusively within the State is subject to its regulations by taxation or otherwise, but that which carries goods from or to
another State is exempted by the Constitution from its control.
I lay down the broad proposition that by no device or evasion,
by no form of statutory words, can a State compel citizens of other
States to pay to it a tax, contribution, or toll, for the privilege of
having their goods transported thro? gh that State by the ordinary
channels of commerce. And that this was the purpose of the
framers of our Constitution I have no doubt; and I have
just as little doubt that the full recognition of this principle
is essential to the harmonious future of this country now, as
it was then. The internal commerce of that day was of small
importance, and the foreign was considered as of great consequence. But both were placed beyond the power of the
States to control. The interstate commerce to-day far exceeds in value that which is foreign, and it is of immense
importance that it should not be shackled by restrictions
imposed by any State in order to place on others the burden
of supporting its own government, as was done in the days
of the helpless Confederation.
I think the tax on gross receipts is a violation of the Federal Constitution, and therefore void.

