Dec. 1872.]'

BROWN V. KENNEDY.

Syllabus.

the assured, being in the possession of his ordinary reasoning faculties, from anger, pride, jealousy, or a desire to
escape from the ills of life, intentionally takes his own life,
the proviso attaches, and there can be no recovery. If the
death is caused by the voluntary act of the assured, he knowing and intending that his death shall be the result of his
act, but when his reasoning faculties are so far impaired
that he is not able to understand the moral character, the
general nature, consequences, and effect of the act he is
about to commit, or when he is impelled thereto by an insane impulse, which he has not the power to resist, such
death is not within the contemplation of the parties to the
contract, and the insurer is liable.
In the present instance the contract of insurance was made
between Mrs. Terry and the company; the insured not being
in form a party to the contract. Such contracts are frequently made by the insured himself, the policy stating that
it is for the benefit of the wife, and that in the event of
death the money is to be paid to her. We see no difference
in the cases. In each it is the case of a contract, and is to
be so rendered as to give effect to the intention of the parties. Nor do we see any difference for this purpose in the
meaning of the expressions, commit suicide, take his own
life, or die by his own hands. With either expression, it is
not claimed that accidental self-destruction, death in endeavoring to escape from the flames, or the like, is within
The proviso.
JUDGMENT

AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice STRONG dissented.

BROWN V. KENNEDY.

I. Under the act of July 17th, 1862, "to seize and confiscate the property
of rebels," &e., which authorizes the confiscation of all 9the estate,
property, money, stobks, and credits" of rebels,-if the information be

filed against a bond and mortgage, praying process against them and
against "the estate, property, claim, credits, and rights thereto and
therein" belonging to the mortgagee, and the warrant, in directing the

BROWN V. KENNEDY.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.
marshal to attach and retain in his possession, use these same words;
and the marshal return that he has attached '1the bond, mortgage, and
credit," and has cited the mortgagee; and the decree, reciting the return, order that the said "bond, mortgage, and credit" be condemned
and forfeited-the forfeiture is good, and the record of the proceeding
of forfeiture is a bar to a bill of foreclosure on the mortgage.
2. This is so, though in point of fact the bond and mortgage were never
in the district of the United States where the proceedings in forfeiture
took place.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kansas; the case being thus:
An act of Congress of July 17th, 1862, "to seize and confiscate the property of rebels," provided, that if any persons
in the then rebel States being engaged in armed rebellion
against the government of the United States, or aiding or
abetting such rebellion, shall not, within a time specified,
cease to aid, countenance, and abet such rebellion, and return to his allegiance to the United States, "all the estate,
property, money, stocks, and credits of such persons, shall
be liable to seizure as aforesaid," and it was made the duty
of the President to seize and use them as aforesaid, or the
proceeds thereof. The statute further enacted, "that to
secure the condemnation and sale of any such property, proceedings in ren shall be instituted in the name of the United
States," in the District Court; and that the proceedings shall

conform as nearly as may be to proceedings in admiralty
and revenue cases; "and if said property, whether real or
personal, shall be found to have belonged to a person engaged in rebellion, or who has given aid or comfort thereto,
the same shall be condemned as enemies' property."
This act had now three times been before this court for
construdtion. It came up once in Pelham v. Rose,* where
the court took a distinction between a promissory note, the
evidence of a credit and the credit itself; and held that when
the debtor had given to his creditor a promissory note, and
that note was in existence, and was the thing proceeded against,
it was necessary to the legal service of any monition that
* 9 Wallace, 103.

Dec. 1872.]

BRowN V. KENNEDY.
Statement of the case.

the marshal should seize and take it into his possession and
control. The corollary was, that when the note, at the commencement of and during the pendence of proceedings to
confiscate, was beyond the jurisdiction of the marshal, there
was no due service and no confiscation.
The statute came up for consideration at a later date in
Mliller v. United Slates.*
In that case a libel had been filed under the act to confiscate railroad stocks belonging to a rebel, and the notice, instead of being served on the owner, was served on the officers of the railroad company.
The court held that the service was good. It said that
"the act of Congress made it the duty of the President to
cause the seizure of all the estate, property, money, stocks,
credits, and effects of the persons described, and in order to
secure the condemnation and sale of such property after its
seizure, directed judicial proceedings in rein to be instituted.
It contemplated that every kind of property mentioned
could be seized effectually in some mode. It had in view
not only tangible property, but that which is in action. It
named stocks and credits; but it gave no directions respecting the mode of seizure. It was, therefore," the court said,
"a fair conclusion that the mode was intended to be such as
was adapted to the nature of the property directed to be
seized, and in use in courts of revenue and admiralty. And
it was legitimate," the court added, "in certain proceedings
in courts of admiralty, to attach credits and effects of such
an intangible nature that they cannot be taken into actual
possession by the marshal, and the mode of attachment was
by notice, dependent upon statutory enactment."
The court accordingly held that the confiscation and sale
had made a valid transfer of the stock.
The act came up a third time, in Pelham v. Way, reported
in an earlier part of this volume,t where the court said "that
undoubtedly a debt or credit was capable of seizure under
the confiscation acts, and of subsequent condemnation and
- Supra, 196.

* 11 Wallace, 296.

VOL. XV.

88

See the case.

BROWN V. KENNEDY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

sale;" though the court there held that the proceeding not
having been against the debt or credit, but only against the
material evidence of it, and that material evidence having
been out of the marshal's jurisdiction, and not having been
seized, no confiscation of anything had taken place.
The statute thus above explained being in force, an information was filed by the district attorney in the District
Court of the United States for the District of Kansas against
a bond, dated May 28, 1860, executed by Lawrence Kennedy
to Edward S. Brown, and secured by mortgage made and
acknowledged by said Lawrence and Eliza his wife, on the
same day, and on it recorded. The information prayed that
process might issue against the bond and mortgage, and
against "the estate, property, claim, credits, and rights thereto
and therein belonging to said .EdwardS. Brown, to enforce the
forfeiture thereof." Following this information a warrant
was issued on the 28th of March, 1863, to the marshal of
the district, commanding him to "attach said bond and
mortgage, and the estate, property, claim, credits, and rights
thereto and therein belonging to the said Edward S. Brown," and
to retain the same in his custody to await the further order
of the court, giving notice to all persons claiming the same
to appear on the 20th of April, 1863, and show cause, if any
they had, why the property should not be condemned as forfeited. To this warrant the marshal made return that he had
attached the "bond, mortgage, and credit," and had cited
Lawrence Kennedy and Eliza Kennedy (the obligors and
mortgagors), and all other persons having, or pretending to
have, any right, title, or interest therein, as he was commanded. Then followed the decree of the court, entered
May 5th, 1863, which, after reciting the marshal's return
that he had attached the bofid and mortgage, credits, and
property, and given due notice, after reciting also that proclamation had been made, and that default had been entered,
ordered that "the said bond, mortgage, and credit" be condemned and declared forfeited to the United States. The
decree also ordered Kennedy, one of the obligors and mort-

Dec. 1872.]

BROWN V.

KENNEDY.

Argument for the mortgagee.

gagors, to pay the debt into the court for the use of the
United States, and in pursuance of the decree payment was
made to the officers of the court.
In 1868 Brown obtained a pardon from the President,
and on his application, previously made, the District. Court
ordered that all the money that had been collected under
the confiscation decree by the officers of the court should be
paid to him, after deducting therefrom some unpaid legal
costs. And subsequently he caused to be filed in the confiscation proceedings a petition praying for judgment in his
favor against those officers for the money. In point of fact,
however, Brown received nothing on account of the order.
In this state of things Brown filed a bill in the court below,
the Circuit Court for the District of Kansas, against Lawrence
Kennedy and wife for the foreclosure of the mortgage. The
principal defence was that the mortgage and the debt secured
by it had been confiscated under the act of Congress; the
defendant asserting also that by coming in to get the money
produced by the confiscation, the complainant was estopped
from proceeding by way of foreclosure. This defence was the
less pressed, as the complainant expressly disclaimed wanting
more than one satisfaction. As matter of fact, it was admitted by a statement of facts agreed on, that Brown, the
complainant., was, and always had been, a resident of Virginia, and from June, 1860, till September, 1865, had continuously, at his home, in that State, the bond and mortgage,
and that neither of the instruments was, during any part of
that term, in the District of Kansas.
The court below dismissed the bill; and from its action
herein, this appeal came.
MlTr. E. S. Brown, for the appellant:
The court held in Pelham v. Rose, and Pelham v. Way, that
the note, being capable of manual caption, must be taken
into the actual custody of the marshal to constitute a valid
seizure, and without this the court cannot adjudicate the
condemnation thereof. In the appeal now before the court,
it is part of the case as agreed on and admitted, that there

BROWN

V. KENNEDY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the mortgagee.

was no seizure of the bond and mortgage by the marshal for
the District of Kansas; but that at the time of the said pretended confiscation proceedings, the bond and mortgage
were without the District of Kansas, and within the exclusive possession and control of Brown, at his home in Virginia, so that the court acquired no jurisdiction thereof.
The whole argument, then, of the other side, must rest on
the use of the word credit in the proceedings.
But this word in the marshal's return can mean nothing
but the bond and the mortgage. He describes the bond and
mortgage, and nothing else; and when he says "the following described bond, mortgage, and credit," to wit, he means
the bond and mortgage, and nothing else. He uses the
word (credit) as a synonym with them. On this return,
specially hinges the jurisdiction of the court. No matter
what had been done before, if the official act of the marshal
did not bring the res within the territorial jurisdiction of the
court, no jurisdiction was acquired over the subject.
Further indeed. If the marshal had adopted the language
of the information and the warrant, and after the words,
"the bond and mortgage" he had added "and the estate,
property, claim, credits, and rights thereto and therein belonging to the said Edward S. Brown," that return would have
comprehended no other res than Brown's bond and mortgage. To pretend that the owner's right to the res may be
seized in one territorial jurisdiction, while the res is in another, is far beyond what was ever maintained in any court.
Can it be maintained that the owner's right to his horse may
be seized in Kansas, while the horse is in his quiet possession in Virginia? or, that the captain's right to his ship may
be seized in Kansas, while the captain is in command, and
the ship securely sailing in mid-ocean? The forfeiture of
the horse, or ship, or bond and mortgage, is nothing but the
forfeiture of the owner's "estate, property, claim, credits,
and rights thereto and therein."
Miller v. United States does not interfere with the position
taken above, nor the views expressed thereon. It is distinguished therefrom in Pelham v. Way.

Dec. 1872.]

BROWN V. KENNEDY.
Opinion of the court.

Messrs. -E. Stillings and T. P. Fenlon, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The bill was for the foreclosure of a mortgage, and the
principal defence set up is that the mortgage and the debt
secured by it had been confiscated under the act of Congress
of July 17th, 1862. If it had been, the complainant was
not entitled to a decree of foreclosure, and his bill was properly dismissed.
We are unable to perceive why the record of the proceeding in the District Court of the United States for the District
of Kansas, on which the defendant chiefly relied, does not
show an effective confiscation of the debt, and its forfeiture
to the United States, as well as satisfaction thereof by the
mortgagors. Doubtless it is true that the court had no
authority to decree confiscation of anything which had not
by seizure of the marshal been brought within its jurisdiction. Seizure is essential to confer jurisdiction. But the
marshal's return that he had attached the bond, mortgage,
and credit, conclusively establish that a seizure was made,
and that the subjects of the seizure were within the jurisdiction of the court. In this collateral proceeding the complainant is not at liberty to traverse the marshal's return.
Ain attempt was made to traverse it, in part at least, as
appears from the agreed statement of facts. It is recited
therein that from June, 1860, to September, 1865, continuously, Edward S. Brown had in his possession at his home
in the State of Virginia the bond and mortgage, and that
during this whole period they were not in the District of
Kansas. From this we are expected to infer that the marshal could not have seized them. We can, however, make
no such inference against the marshal's return, without disregard of the established rule that such a return is conclusive of the facts stated by it.
The next position taken by the appellant is that, at most,
only the bond and mortgage were confiscated, leaving the
debt, of which the bond and mortgage were mere evidences,
still due. In support of this we are referred to Pelham v.

BRowx V. KENNEDY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Rose,* and Pelham v. Way, more recently decide.t If this
were so, it would not be easy to see how the appellant could
make use of the mortgage to collect the debt, when his title
to the mortgage no longer exists-when it has been adjudged forfeited to the United States. But Pelham v. Rose
and Pelham v. May furnish no support to the position that
the debt due from the mortgagors was not confiscated as
well as the instruments which the parties had adopted as the
evidences of the debt. In those cases the information was
against a promissory note, and nothing else. So was the
warrant or monition. The marshal returned that he had
arrested the property mentioned in the warrant, and the
court decreed condemnation of" the note." The nature of
the proceeding is clearly shown in the opinion of Mr. Justice Field in Pelham v. Rose, where he said: "1In the, case at
bar, a visible thing, capable of physical possession, is the
subject of the libel. It is the promissory note of Pelham
which constitutes the res against which the proceeding is instituted, and not a credit or debt, which the note is supposed
by the defendant's counsel to represent. . . . The object of
the present libel is to reach the note itself. This appears
at every stage of the proceedings; in the information; in
the monition to the marshal; in his return; in the decree
of the court, and in the sale made." It was for this reason
it was ruled in Pelham v. Way that the debt was not confiscated.
But the present case, as is apparent from the record, is
very different. Not only were the bond and mortgage given
to Brown informed against, ordered to be attached, seized,
and condemned, but so, also, was the credit. We have seen
that the marshal was commanded to attach the bond and
mortgage and the estate,property, claim, credits, and rights thereto
and therein belonging to the said -EdwardS. Brown. What is
the credit in a bond and mortgage, if it is not the debt
secured or evidenced by them? What are rights in a
mortgage, as well as to it, if they are not the rights of the
*9 "Wallace,103.

tSupra, 196.

Dec. 1872.]

BROWN V.

]KENNEDY.

Opinion of the court.

mortgagee to claim and receive the money secured by the
mortgage? The ownership of the written instrument is a
distinct thing from ownership of the right or credit of which
the instrument is the evidence. The word "credit" does
not describe ownership of a mortgage, nor do the words
The warrant was therefore directed
"rights therein."
against the debt, as well as against the written evidence of
it. The marshal returned that he had attached the bond,
mortgage, And credit, and the decree condemned expressly
the bond, mortgage, and credit. That the debt was attachable in confiscation proceedings was held by this court in
Miller v. The United Slates,* and it was ruled that attachment
or seizure could be made without manual caption of the
visible evidences of the credit. To the doctrines laid down
in that case we adhere; and, as the marshal's' return conclusively establishes that the credit was seized, and was
therefbre within the jurisdiction of the court, we must hold
that the decree of condemnation was warranted, and that
the debt was effectively confiscated.
It is, perhaps, not necessary to say more. Yet it may be
added that the appellant seems to have acquiesced in the
decree of condemnation, and in the subsequent payment of
the debt by the mortgagors to the officers of the court. The
agreed statement of facts exhibits that in 1868, after he had
obtained a pardon, on his application the District Court ordered that all the money that bad been collected under the
confiscation decree by the officers of the court should be
paid to him, after deducting therefrom some unpaid legal
costs. And subsequently he caused to be filed in the confiscation proceedings a petition praying for judgment in his
favor against those officers for the money. Whether, after
this, he could assert that the proceedings by which the money
was collected were a nullity we will not determine. It is
enough that, in our opinion, the debt due originally to him
from the mortgagors was confiscated before his bill was filed.
DECREE AFFIRMED.
*

11 Wallace, 268.

HOLDANE

V. SUMNER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Mr. Justice DAVIS: I concur in* the judgment in this
case on the ground that Brown waived his rights when he
appealed to the confiscation proceedings, and by petition
prayed the court to have the money realized from those proceedings paid over to him; which petition was granted by
the court.
Mr. Justice FIELD dissented from both the judgment
and the opinion.

HOLDANE V. SUMNER.
When a corporation of Louisiana which had leased premises on which it had
goods liable to the landlord's lien, was owing rent (for the payment of
which by the" law of the State the landlord had a right by a judicial
proceeding to seize the goods, and for the space of fifteen days, if they
were removed, to follow and seize them) undertook, in supposed pursuance of the laws of Louisiana which authorize 11any person" to make
a cessio bonorum, to make such cession, and the judge having jurisdiction of the matter of cessions generally accepted the cession for the benefit of creditors, and directed that all judicial proceedings against the
property be "stayed," after which-things proceeding in regular course
-the syndic took possession of and sold the goods, Held, on a contest between the landlord and judgment creditors for the proceeds of
them in the syndic's hands, that although it was finally decided in the
Supreme Court of the State that a corporation was not entitled by the
laws of Louisiana to make a cessio bonorum, and although, accordingly,
the order staying all judicial proceedings was vacated and annulled, yet
that the landlord had not lost his lien by omitting to follow and seize
the goods in the syndic's hands, within the fifteen days after the syndic
removed them; and that although the decision in the first instance, of
the judge staying all judicial proceedings against the property of the
corporation might have been void, as it was finally adjudged to be, yet
as the subject generally belonged to him; as the parties were before
him, and as he had to decide, in the first instance, the question of his
own jurisdiction, his acts were binding till reversed or set aside; and
that, as he was acting judicially in what he did, the landlord was not
bound, in the face of an express inhibition of judicial proceeding against
the goods, to attempt to seize them and thus meet the court with the
issue of the strong hand.
APPEAL

from the Circuit Court for the District of Loui-

siana.

This was a bill in equity filed by Sumner and others, as

