Dec. 1872.]

UNITED STATES V.

SINGER.

Syllabus.

him, and he is not entitled to the-freight earned. Nor does
it make any difference though the vessel be registered in
his name.-,
It certainly cannot be maintained that Shinn was in possession, or that he ever authorized the expenditure that was
made. And as this is a bill, not by third parties who furnished the supplies, but in right of some joint owners, the
ship's husband, against a mortgagee.of another joint owner,
authority from the mortgagee to contract for the supplies is
indispensable to any liability on his part.
DECREE AFrIRMED.

UNITED STATES V.

SINGER.

1. The 20th section of the act of Congress of July 20th, 1868, is as follows:
"That on the receipt of the distiller's first return in each month, the assessor
shall inquire and determine whether said distiller has accounted in his returns
for the preceding month for all the spirits produced by him; and to determine
the quantity of spirits thus to be accounted for, the whole quantity of materials
used for the production of spirits shall be ascertained ; and forty-five gallons of
mash or beer brewed or fermented from grain shall represent not less than one
bushel of grain, and seven gallons of mash or beer brewed or fermented from
molasses shall represent not less than one gallon of molasses. In case the return
of the distiller shall have been less than the quantity thus ascertained, the distiller or other person liable shall be assessed for such deficiency at the rate of 50
cents for every proof gallon, together with the special tax of St for every cask
of forty proof gallons, and the collector shall proceed to collect the same as in
cases of other assessments for deficiencies; but in no case shall the quantity of
spirits returned by the distiller, together with the quantity so assessed, be for a
less quantity of spirits than eighty per centum of the producing capacity of the
distillery, as estimated under the provisions of this act."
H ld, that the meaning of this section is, that in nd case shall the distillar
be assessed for a less amount of spirits than 80 per cent. of the producing
capacity of his distillery, and if the spirits actually produced by him exceed this 80 per cent. he shall also be assessed upon the excess.
2. The law is constitutional. The tax imposed upon the distiller is-in the
nature of an excise, and the only limitation upon the power of Congress
in the imposition of taxes of this character is that they shall be " uniform throughout the United States." The tax here is uniform in its
*Howard

v. Odell, 1 Allen, 85; Myers v. Willis, 17 0. B. 77; 18 Id. 886.

'UNITED STATES V. SINGER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
operation; that is, it is assessed equally upon all manufacturers of
spirits wherever they are. The law establishes one rule for all distillers.
3. The 15th section of the act of Congress of July 20th, 1868, required every
distiller to provide a warehouse for the storage of spirits manufactured
by him, and declared that such warehouse, when approved by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, on report of the collector, should be a
bonded warehouse of the United States, and should be under the direction and control of the collector of the district, and in charge of the internal revenue storekeeper assigned thereto by the commissioner. The
52d section of the same act enacted that the compensation of these storekeepers should be determined by the commissioner and be paid by the
United States. The distillers in this case provided the warehouse directed, and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue assigned a storekeeper to take charge of it at a compensation of $5 a day, and he remained in charge of the warehouse from the 4th to the 25th of March,
1869, inclusive,, for which service he was entitled to $110, and was paid
that amount by the United States. Subsequently to this, and on the
29th of 'March, 1869, Congress passed a certain joint resolution to which
was annexed a proviso that, after the passage of that act, the proprietors
of all internal revenue bonded warehouses should "reimburse to the
United States the expenses and salary of all storekeepers or other officers in
charge of such warehouses," and that the same should be paid into the
treasury and accounted for hke other public moneys; Held, that the
official bond of the distillers and their sureties, in this case executed in
January, 1869, does not bind them to make reimbursement of this
money expended by the United States before the joint resolution was
passed: 1st, because the joint resolution only contemplates the reimbursement of expenses and salary paid after its passage; and, 2d, because the reimbursement to the United States of moneys paid by them
to their own officers or agents, in pursuance of a law in existence when
the bond was executed, is not a duty so connected with, or naturally
belonging to, the business of a distiller as to be within the reasonable
contemplation of the parties to the bond at the time of its execution.
4. The official bond of parties covers not merely duties imposed by existing
law, but duties belonging to and naturally connected with their office
or business imposed by subsequent law, but the new duties must have
some relation to or connection with such office or business, and not be
disconnected from' and foreign to both.
5. This case distinguished from that of United States v. Powell (14 Wallace,
493), in this, that there the moneys were expended by the United States,
and one of the bonds in suit was executed, after the passage of the joint
resolution.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Illinois; the case being this:
The 20th section of the act of July 20th, 1868, entitled

Dec. 1872.]

UNITED STATES V. SINGER.
Statement of the case.

"An act imposing taxes on distilled spirits and tobacco, and
for other purposes,"* enacts:
"That on the receipt of the distiller's first return in each
month, the assessor shall inquire and determine whether said
distiller has accounted in his returns for the preceding month
for all the spirits produced by him; and to determine the qiantity of spirits thus to be accounted for, the whole quantity of
materials used for the production of spirits shall be ascertained;
and forty-five gallons of mash or beer brewed or fermented from
grain shall represent not less than one bushel of grain, and
seven gallons of mash or beer brewed or fermented from molasses shall represent not less than one gallon of molasses. In
case the return of the distiller shall have been less than the
quantity thus ascertained, the distiller or other person liable
shall be assessed for such deficiency at the rate of fifty cents for
every proof gallon, together with the spccial tax of four dollars
for every cask of forty proof gallons, and the collector shall
proceed to collect the same as in cases of other assessments for
deficiencies; but in no case shall the quantity of spirits returned
by the distiller, together with the quantity so assessed, be for a
less quantity of spirits than eighty per centum of the producing
capacity of the distillery as estimated under the provisions of
this act."
The 15th section of the same act required every distiller
to provide a warehouse for the storage of-spirits manufactured by him, and declared that such warehouse, when approved by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, on report of the collector, should bb a bonded warehouse of the
United States, and should be under the direction and control of the collector of the district, and in charge of the internal revenue storekeeper assigned thereto by the commissioner. The 52d section of the same act enacted that the
compensation of these storekeepers should be determined
by the commissioner and be paid by the Uiled Slates. On
the 29th of March, 1869, Congress passed a joint resol ution,t
supplying omissions in the enrolment of certain appropriation acts, to which was annexed a proviso that, after the
* 15 Stat. at Large, 133, 134.
VOL. XV.

f" 16 lb. 52.
8

UNITED STATES V.

SINGER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

passage of the resolution, the proprietors of all internal revenue bonded warehouses should "reimburse to the United
States the expenses and salary of all storekeepers or other
officers in charge of such warehouses," and that the same
should be paid into the treasury and accounted for like
other public moneys.
In this state of the statutory law the United States brought
suit against Singer and Bickerdike as principals, and certain other persons as sureties, on a distiller's bond which all
the, said parties had signed, and whereby they covenanted
that the principals should "in all respects, faithfully comply with the provisions of the law in relation to the duties
and business of distillers, and pay all penalties incurred or
fines imposed upon them for violation of any of the said
provisions."
The government assigned as a breach that the said Singer
and Bickerdike, 'during the month of Notember, 1868,
manufactured spirits at their distillery, and -made return for
that month to the assessor of the first collection district of
the State of Illinois, of spirits so manufactured, and the
quantity of spirits so returned was less than 80 per cent. of
the pr'oducing capacity of said distillery, as estimated under
the provisions of the internal revenue law, and, that thereupon, the said assessor, to wit, on the 10th day of February,
A.D. 1869, proceeded, to make an assessment against the
said Singer and Bickerdike, for the deficiency in said return,
which assessment, amounting to $26,089.60, the said Singer
and Bickerdike had refused to pay."
Plea, ibhat the said Singer and Bickerdike, "before the
commencement of this suit, fully paid and satisfied all assessments lawfully made against them for spiritsproduced at their
said distillery since the date of the said bond."
The plaintiffs demurred, and thus raised the first point in
the case.
By a second count the plaintiffs assigned as another breach
of the bond that "one C. W. Davis, an internal revenue
storekeeper, appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury of
the United States, and assigned by the Commissioner of In-

Dec. 1872.]

UNITED STATES V.

SINGER.

Argument for the distiller.

ternal Revenue to the distillery warehouse of which said
Singer and Bickerdike were proprietors, established by law,
in connection with the said distillery, at a salary of $5 per
day, had charge, as such storekeeper, of the said warehouse
from the 4th to the 25th days, inclusive, of March, A.D.
1869, and became thereby entitled to the sum of $110 for the
said services; which said last-named sum had been paid by
the United States to the said Davis for his said services, and
that it thereupon became the duty of Singer and Bickerdike,
as such distillers and proprietois, to reimburse to the United
States said sum; yet that though often requested, they had
never paid it or any part of it."
To this count also the defendants demurred.
Judgment was given by the-Circuit Court of the United
States for the defendailts, and this writ of error was brought,
the United States assigning as error:
1st. That by the already-quoted 20th section of the act of
July 20th, 1868, the defendants, Singer and Bickerdike, were
liable to be taxed for a quantity of spirits equal to 80 per
cent. of the producing capacity of their distillery, whether
the amount actually manufactured equalled that quantity or
not.
2d. That by the resolution of March 29th, 1869, the defendants were bound to repay to the United States what the
latter had paid to Davis as storekeeper.
llessrs. Edward .Roby, and -H. S. Monroe, in suplort of the
rulitngs below:
I. The demurrer admits that Singer and Bickerdike have
paid the tax upon every gallon of spirits manufactured by
them, and the question thus is, whether under the law they
can be compelled to pay a tax upon what they have not manufactured, upon what in fact never had an exi~tence. Now
1. Congress cannot have intended, in this enactment, to
enable the government to collect a tax upon property not
existing within its jurisdiction, or to compel the citizen to
pay a tax upon what he has not produced, and on what perhaps he could not produce. The object was'to enable the

116

UNITED STATES V. SINGER.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the distiller.

officers of the government to assess and collect a tax upon
what should be actually produced, and upon that alone. And
a careful inspection of the first nineteen and the last eightynine sections of this law will show that this was the real and
only object.
2. If the construction above given to this section is not
the true one, then it is void. 1st. Because Congress cannot
levy a tax on nothing. 2d. Because the tax it seeks to levy
is not and cannot be uniform. 3d. Because a deficiency is
not a tax, but is a penalty, and cannot be enforced by an
action upon the distiller's bond; and, 4th. Because the legislature attempted the exercise of a judicial power in excess
of legislative authority.
1st. Congress cannot levy a tax upon nothing. It is admitted that this tax of $26,089.60 was levied upon nothing;
for confessedly the spirits, upon which the assessor sought
to impose it, never had an existence. Now a tax cannot
exist without a subject. It cannot be imposed except upon
person or property. Congress can no more tax nothing than
it can create the subject of taxation out of nothing. This
is not a tax upon the person. It is not a tax upon property,
and it does not come within any legal definition of duty, impost, or excise.
2d. The Constitution requires that taxes shall be uniform.
If the consti'uction set up by the government is the true
one, this is not and cannot be uniform. The tax on spirits
is (say) 60 cents per gallon and $4 per barrel. Had the distiller in this case produced the full amount of 20 per cent.
more than the estimated capacity of his distillery, his tax
would have been 50 cents a gallon and $4 per barrel. He
made say only 50 per cent. of the estimated capacity, and
the tax he had to pay is $1 on every gallon and $8 on every
barrel of what he actually manufactures. This result inevitably follows, if the imposition is considered as a tax.
3d. This imposition upon a deficiency is a penalty and
not a tax within the meaning of the law. Congress, in
effect says to the distiller, "You have a distillery here, with
which, by proper care and skill, you ought to make say 2000

Dec. 1872.]

UNITED STATES V.

SINGER.

Argument for the distiller.

gallons of spirits per day. You can certainly make 1600 gallons. If you do not make but 1000 gallons, you shall be
punished for your want of skill, and shall pay $300 on account of this 600 gallons you ought to have made, and $4
per barrel besides." Is it not the same as though Congress
had in terms imposed a penalty upon the distillar who should
not succeed in making 80 per cent. of what his distillery
was, in the opinion of the officers of the government, capable of producing? If it is a penalty, it cannot be enforced
against the distiller in this action. It can only be enforced,
if at all, by infbrmation or some proper proceeding for its
collection.
But can it, as a penalty or a tax, be sustained? Can
Congress impose a penalty upon the citizen because he has
not the same skill and knowledge that others have? Can
it, by legislation, punish the citizen because he is unable to
conduct his business with the same success that others do?
If so, it has the power to destroy every interest of business
in the nation, because it is safe to say that while one m-n
may make large amounts yearly in carrying on his business,
nine in the same business may make but little more than a
living.
4th. If the section is to receive the construction set up by
the government the legislature will exercise judicial power;
for the assessor will have power to decide upon the rights
of distillers without an opportunity on their part to be
heard. The property of the citizen is forfeited and transferred without trial and judgment in the courts.
IL The second question arises upon the demurrer to the
second count of the declaration, and is whether the defendants are liable under the bond sued on for the payment of
the storekeeper's wages, aniounting to $110.
We do not propose to discuss the question as to whether
Singer and Bickerdike, in sonie other form of action, might
not be liable for this sum, though it seems to us they would
not. Our position, which is sufficient for this case, is that
these sureties cannot by any possibility be held liable for it;
that they cannot by an ex post fiacto resolution of Congress,

UNITED STATES V. SINGER.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

operating upon the condition of this bond executed before
the date of this resolution, be held liable under it.
Mr. G. I. Williams, Attorney- General,and H/r. C. H. Hill,
Assistant Attorney-General, for the United States, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
Two questions are presented by the counsel of the government for our consideration in this case. One relates to
the construction which should be given to the twentieth section of the act of July 20th, 1868, imposing taxes on distilled
spirits; and the other relates to the liability of the defendants on the bond in suit to reimburse the United States the
amount paid by them to the storekeeper placed. in charge of
the warehouse of the distillers.
Upon the construction which should be given to the twentieth section of the act of July, 1868, there appears to have
been some conflict of opinion among different Circuit judges.
The real or supposed hardship in particular cases of imposing a tax upon an amount of spirits equal to eighty per cent.
of the producing capacity of the distillery, where a less
quantity has been in fact manufactured by the distiller, has
undoubtedly had much to do in inducing a construction
leading to a different result. But the hardship of the operation of particular provisions of a statute has properly no
place for consideration where the language is unambiguous
and the legislative intent is clear. And reading the section
in question by itself there does not appear to us to be any
ambiguity in its language, or any doubt as to its meaning.
Its meaning is that in no case shall the distiller be assessed
for a less amount of spirits than eighty per cent. of the producing capacity of his distillery, and if the spirits actually
produced by him exceed this eighty per cent., he shall also
be assessed upon the excess.
The other sections of the act, instead of conflicting, agree
with this construction. There are running through the act
two classes of provisions, one of which looks to the ascertainment of the quantity of spirits distilled, and the other to

Dec. 1872.]

]
STATES V. SINGER.
e NITED
Opinion of the court.

the ascertainment of the producing capacity of the distillery.
Thus the first section has reference to the spirits actually
produced, and provides for the tax thereon. The fifteenth
section compels every distiller to provide a warehouse, to be
situated on and constitute part of his distillery premises, to
be used only for the storage of distilled spirits of his own
manufacture. The nineteenth section requires the distiller
to make daily entries in books, kept for that purpose, of the
grain and other materials used in the manufacture of spirits,
and to render a sworn account three times each month of
the number of gallons produced by him and placed in his
warehouse. And the twentieth section makes it the duty of
the assessor to inquire into and determine whether the distiller has accounted in his returns for all the spirits produced
by him. These provisions are intended to secure the ascertainment of the quantity actually manufactured by the distiller. On the other hand, the ninth section provides "that
every distiller, or person intending to engage in the business
of distilling, shall previous to the approval of his bond cause
to be made, under the direction of the assessor of the district, an accurate plan and description, in triplicate, of the
distillery and distilling apparatus, distinctly showing the
location of every still, boiler, doubler, worm-tub, and receiving cistern, the course and construction of all fixed pipes
used, or to be used in the distillery, and of every branch
thereof, and of every cock or joint thereof, and of every
valve therein, together with every place, vessel, tub, or
utensil, from and to which any such pipe shall lead, or with
which it communicates;" and also showing "the number
and location, and cubic contents of every still, mash tub,
and fermenting tub, together with the cubic contents of
every receiving cistern, and the color of each fixed pipe."
One copy of the plan and description is required to be kept
displayed in some conspicuous place in the distillery, one is
to be kept by the assessor, and one to be transmilted to the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue. Their accuracy is to be
verified by the assessor, the draughtsman, and distiller, and
no alteration in the distillery can afterwards be made with-

UNITED STATES V.

SINGER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

out the consent of the assessor, and any alteration made
must be shown on the original, or by a supplemental plan
and description, which is to be preserved in the same manner as the original. The tenth section requires a survey to
be made by the assessor, with the aid of a skilful and competent person to be designated by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, of every distillery used, and its true producing capacity estimated and determined, and reports of
the same to be made in triplicate, one to be furnished to
the distiller, one to be retained by the assessor, and one to
be transmitted to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue.
These several provisions are intended to secure information
as to the producing capacity of the distillery; and then we
have the concluding clause of the section under consideration, that in no case shall the quantity returned by the distiller, with the quantity assessed as deficit, be less than
eighty per cent. of such capacity.
The system thus adopted was designed to prevent the
secret production of spirits and consequent evasion of the
government tax. And it seems well suited to accomplish
this purpose; it at least reduces the limits within which
fraud can be practiced to twenty per cent. of the capacity
of the distillery. In view of the enormous frauds previously
practiced upon the government in rendering accounts, this
system cannot be justly charged with unnecessary harshness.
Every one is advised in advance of the amount he will be
required to pay if he enters into the business of distilling
spirits, and every distiller must know the producing capacity
of his distillery. If he fail under these circumstances to produce the amount for which by the law be will in any event
be taxed if he undertake to distil at all, he is not entitled
to much consideration.
It is suggested that as the distiller is required to make a
return of the spirits actually manufactured by him under
oath, the provision for a return of an amount equal to eighty
per cent. of the producing capacity of the distillery cannot
be complied with where a less amount has been produced.
But we do not perceive any difficulty in this respect, or any

Dec. 1872.]

D.NITED STATES V. SINGER.
Opinion of the court.

difficulty in giving effect to both provisions. The distiller
should, as required, return under oath the true amount produced by him, and where this is less than the eighty per cent.
he should add the difference, so as to obtain the amount for
which the assessment is to be made. He can state in his
return both the actual product of his distillery and the deficiency between that and the assessable amount.
The law is not in our judgment subject to any constitutional objection. The tax imposed upon the distiller is in
the nature of an excise, and the only limitation upon the
power of Congress in the imposition of taxes of this character is that they shall be "uniform throughout the United
States." The tax here is uniform in its operation; that is,
it is assessed equally upon all manufacturers of spirits wherever they are. The law does not establish one rule for one
distiller and a different rule for another, but the same rule
for all alike.
It follows from these views that the court below erred in
overruling the demurrer of the plaintiffs to the third amended
plea of the defendants, which raised the question we have
considered as to the proper construction of the twentieth
section of the act of July, 1868.
Upon the second question presented, which relates to the
liability of the defendants on the bond in suit to reimburse
the United States the amount paid by them to the storekeeper placed in charge of the warehouse of the distillers,
our judgment is with the defendants. The bond in suit was
executed in January, 1869. The fifteenth section of the act
of Congress of July 20th, 1868, then in force, required every
distiller to provide a warehouse for the storage of spirits
manufactured by him, and declared that such warehouse,
when approved by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue,
on report of the collector, should be a bonded warehouse
of the United States, and should be under the direction and
control of the collector of the district, and in charge of the
internal revenue storekeeper assigned thereto by the commissioner. The fifty-second section of the same act enacted

UNITED STATES V.

SINGER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

that the compensation of these storekeepers should be determined by the commissioner and be paid by the United
States. The distillers in this case provided the warehouse
directed, and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue assigned a storekeeper to take charge of it at a compensation
of five dollars a day, and be remained in charge of the warehouse from the 4th to the 25th of March, 1869, inclusive, for
which service he was entitled to one hundred and ten dollars, and was paid that amount by the United States. Subsequently to this, and on the 29th of March, 1869, Congress
passed a joint resolution supplying omissions in the enrolment of certain appropriation acts, to which was annexed a
proviso that, after the passage of the resolution, the proprietors of all internal revenue bonded warehouses should "1reimburse to the United States the expenses and salary of all
storekeepers or other officers in charge of such warehouses,"
and that the same should be paid into the treasury and
accounted for like other public moneys. The question is
whether the official bond of the distillers and their sureties
in this case binds them to make reimbursement of this
money expended by the United States before the joint resolution was passed. We are clear that this question must be
answered in the negative and on two grounds: 1st, because
the joint resolution only contemplates, in our judgment, the
reimbursement of expenses and salary paid after its passage;
and, 2d, because if that be not the true construction of the
resolution, the reimbursement to the United States of
,moneys paid by them to their own officers or agents, in
pursuance of a law in existence when the bond was executed, is not a duty so connected with, or naturally belonging to, the business of a distiller as to be within the reasonable contemplation of the parties to the bond at the time of
its execution. The official bond of parties undoubtedly
covers not*merely duties imposed by existing law, but duties
belonging to, and naturally connected with their office or
business imposed by subsequent law. But the new duties
should have some relation to or connection with such office
or business, and not be disconnected from and foreign to

Dec. 1872.]

HEDRICK

v. IHUGHES.

Syllabus.

both.

It would be extending the liabilities of obligors on

such bonds beyond principle and precedent to hold them
responsible for the reimbursement of moneys paid by government to its own officers or agents, because, subsequent
to their payment, government declares that such reimbursement shall be made.
This case is distinguished from that of UMited States v.
Powell, decided at the last term.: There the moneys were
expended by the United States, and one of the bonds in
suit was executed, after the passage of the joint resolution.
It follows from these views that the ruling of the court
below in sustaining the demurrer of the defendants to the
second count of the declaration was correct.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, and the cause REMANDED PoR. FURTHER PROCEEDINGS, with leave to the defendants to plead

anew to the first count of the declaration.
NOTE.-At the same time, and in a similar way with the preceding case,
was adjudged the case of United States v. Van Buskirk, in which the same
points arose as in United States v. Singer.

HEDRICK V. HUGHES.
1. The act of Congress of March 6th, 1820, admitting Missouri into the
Union, and the act of March 8d, 1823, respecting grants of land to that
State, without further grant or patent, vested in the State the 16th section of each township for school purposes; but where this section had
been sold or disposed of by the government, it required the selection of
other lands in lieu thereof by the register and receiver of the proper
land district, and such selection when made and entered in the register's
books, vested the title of such substituted lands in the State.
2. In such case, where the register's book, or the leaf supposed to contain
the entry, is lost or destroyed, the fact of such selection may be proved
by other evidence,-as, that the lands claimed to have been so selected
had been treated and sold as school lands by the proper State authorities
* 14 'Wallace, 493.

