Dec. 1872,.]

GOULD V. IREES.
Statement of the case.

of a fabricated letter purporting to be from the complainant,
he induced the district attorney to believe that the bond and
mortgage of the defendants had been paid and satisfied, and
that the collaterals belonged to the complainant, and as his
property their confiscation was decreed. Having thus led
the public prosecutor to treat his own property as belonging
to another, and to be confiscated as such, he must. suffer the
consequences of his own folly and crime. He cannot charge
the loss of the collaterals thus caused to the complainant.
It follows from the views we have expressed that the judgment and decree of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and
that court be directed to enter a judgment in favor of the
complainant for the amount due on the bond in suit; such
amount to be made up by adding to the principal the interest
due to the date of the judgment, at the rate stipulated, deducting the period intervening between the 27th of April,
1861, and the 2d of April, 1866; and also a decree directing
a sale of the mortgaged premises and the application of the
proceeds to the payment of the amount found due, ifsuch
amount be not paid within such reasonable period as may
be prescribed by the court. And it is
SO ORDERED.

GOULD V. REES.
1. Where three elements are claimed in a patent, in combination, the use
of two of the elements only does not infringe the patent.
2. The introduction of a newly-discovered element or ingredient, or one not
theretofore known to be an equivalent, would not constitute an infringement.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Western District of
Pennsylvania.
Rees sued Gould in aniaction atlaw for an alleged infringement of a patent for improvement in steam engines, dated
January 24th, 1860.
The claims of the patent were as follows:

"Having thus described the nature, construction, and opera-

188

GoULD V. RrES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

tion of my improvement, what I claim as my invention and
desire t6 secure by letters-patent of the United States is:
"First. The flanges i on the reversing crank or arm b, and the
projection t on the cam-rod e, when used for the purpose of
guiding the hooks 1 and 2 into their proper position on the
wrists 3 and 4 of the reversing crank or arm b, as herein described and set forth.
"Second. The use of the link m, or its equivalent, when used in
connection with the cam-rodsf and g, reversing crank or arm b,
and the crank or arm 1, as herein described and for the purpose
set forth.
"Third. The use of the connecting rods o and g, or their equivalents, when used in combination with the link m, cam-rod e,
and levers p and r, as herein described and for the purpose set
forth."
Numerous exceptions were taken by the defendant to certain rulings of the court, and also to certain instructions to
the jury, but this court passed mainly upon the principle involved in the second and third specifications of error, which
were in these words:
"2d. The court below erred in instructing the jury in reply to
the fourth point of law presented by the counsel of the defendants below, which point was in the following words:
"1'That when a combination of mechanical devices is claimed, it is not
infringed by the use of a combination differing substantially in any of its
parts, and that the omission of one essential feature or element of the combination as claimed avoids the patent.'

"The charge of the court below to said fourth point being as
follows:
,1' If the jury believe that the mechanical devices used by Rees, although
differing in mechanical form or construction, are equivalent to those patented and used in the combination patented to produce the same result, it is
an infringement of the patent. . And this, although there is an omission of
one of the features of the conbination. It is the ordinary device resorted to
by those who design to infringe, and who have been unsuccessful in their
experiments to produce a desired result. The law secures to the patentee
the right to the use of his machine, provided it consists of a new combination, although composed of parts well known and in common use.' "

"3d. The court erred in instructing the jury in reply to the

Dec. 1872.]

GOULD

v.

IREES.

Opinion of the court.

sixth point of law presented to him by the defendants' counsel,
which point was in the following words:
"11That the first claim of the plaintiffIs patent, in the following words, to
wit: 11I claim the flanges i, on the reversingcrank or arm b, and the projeclion t, on the cam-rod e,when used for the purpose of guiding the hooks 1 and
2 into their properposition on the wrists 3 and 4 of the reversingcrank or arm
b, as described and set fort,," is for a combination of the arhn b, having
flanges i, with the cam-rod e having a projection t, and is not infringed by
the use of either of the elements of the combination without the other, nor
by the use of the arm b if without the flanges i; or of the cam-rod e without
the projection .'

"The charge of the court to said sixth point being as follows:
" ' The use of the combination is an infringement, and the omission of
one of the elements and the substitution of another mechanical device to perform the same function will not avoid the infringement. All the elements
of the machine may be old, and the invention consists in a new combination
of those elements whereby a new and useful result is obtained. Most of the
modern inventions are of this latter kind, and many of them are of great
utility and value.' "

Verdict having gone under these rulings for the plaintiff,
the defendant brought the case here.
Mr. G. -H.Christy, for the plaintiff in error. No counsel appeared on the other side.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Patentable inventions may consist entirely in a new combination of old ingredients whereby a new and useful result
is obtained, and in such cases the description of the invention is sufficient if the ingredients are named, the mode of
operation given, and the new and useful result is pointed
out, so that those skilled in the art, and the public may
know the nature and extent of the claim and what the parts
are which co-operate to produce the described new and useful result.
Damages are claimed by the plaintiff for the alleged infringement of certain letters-patent, and he instituted for
that purpose an action of ttespass on the case against the
defendant to recover compensation for the alleged injury.

190

GOULD V. REES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Letters-patent were granted to the plaintiff on the twentyfourth of January, 1860, for a new and useful improvement
iii steam engines, described in the specification as "a new
and useful mode of operating and handling" such machines,
which consists, as the patent states, in so arranging and constructing the cranks or arms of the lifters and cam-rods of
puppet-valve engines that they may be operated and handled
with ease and speed, by means of levers and connecting

rods, the whole being arranged and constructed in the manner described in the specification.
Very minute description of the various parts of the mechanism of the invention is given in the specification, and in
order to enable others skilled in the art to make and use the
invention, the patentee proceeds, with iuch detail, to describe its construction and operation, but in the view taken
of the case by the court it will not be necessary to enter into
those details in the present investigation of the controversy
between these parties.
Process was issued, and being served, the defendant appeared and pleaded as follows: (1.) That he was not guilty.
(2.) That the plaintiff was not the original and first inventor
of the improvement described in the letters-patent, and tendered an issue to the country, which was joined by the
plaintiff.
Besides the two pleas pleaded, he also gave notice in
writing that he would give evidence under the general issue
to prove that the alleged invention was well known and
generally used in steamboats navigating the Western waters
long anterior to the alleged date of the plaintiff's invention.
Subsequently the parties went to trial, and the jury,*under
the instructions given by the court, returned their verdict
for the plaintiff, and the defendant excepted to certain rulings and to the instructions of the court, and sued out a writ
of error and removed the cause into this court.
Enough has already been remarked to show what the
general nature, construction, and operation of the improvement is without entering more into the details of the description, as given in the specification, except to reproduce

Dec. 1872.]

GOULD V. REES.
Opinion of the court.

the claims of the patent as made by the patentee. They are
as follows: First. The flanges on the reversing crank or
arm, and the projection on the cam-rod, when used for the
purpose of guiding the hooks into their proper position on
the wrists of the reversing crank or arm, as described and
set forth in the descriptive portion of the specification.
Second. The use of the link, or its equivalent, when used
in connection with the cam-rods, reversing crank or arm,
and the other crank or arm, as therein described and for the
purpose therein set forth. Third. The use of the connecting rods, or their equivalents, when used in combination
with the described link, cam-rod, and levers, as therein described and set fbrth.
Argument to show that each of the claims is for a combination of ingredients is unnecessary, as the statement of
the respective claims is sufficient to establisfi the affirmative
of the proposition; rior is it necessary to add anything to
show that all of the ingredients of the respective claims are
old, as the specification does not contain a word to justify
the theory that the patentee ever pretended that he had invented anything except the several combinations described
in the three claims of his letters-patent.
Exceptions were taken by the defendant to certain rulings
of the court, as well as to several of the instructions given
by the court to the jury, and all or nearly all of those rulings and instructions are assigned for error in this court, but
in the view of the case taken by this court, it will not be
necessary to examine more than one of the exceptions, which
is the one calling in question the instruction defining the
rights of a patentee where the invention consists solely in a
combination of old ingredients, as the proposition of law
given to the jury in that instruction is clearly erroneous, and
of a character which entitles the defendant to a reversal of
the judgment and to a new trial.
Evidence was introduced on both sides, and the defendant
requested the presiding justice to instruct the jury that when
a combination of mechanical devices is claimed, the patent
is not infringed by the use of a combination differing sub-

GOULD V. R.EES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

stantially in any of its parts, and that the omission of one
essential feature or element of the combination as claimed
avoids the infringement, repeating that request in respect to
each of the three claims of the patent, and the bill of exceptions shows that the presiding justice refused to give the
instruction as to any one of the three claims, and that he
instructed the jury in respect to the second* claim that the
use of the combination is an infringement, and that the
omission of one of the elements and the substitution of another mechanical device to perform the same function will
not avoid the infringement, adding what undoubtedly is
correct, that the elements of the machine may be old and
the invention consist in a new combination of old elements
whereby a new and useful result is obtained.
Just exception cannot be taken to the last paragraph of
the instruction, but the preceding clause, which asserts that
the omission of one of the elements and the substitution of
another mechanical device to perform the same function
will not avoid the infringement, cannot be sustained, as the
principle as there stated, without any qualification, is not
correct, and when given, as the instruction was, without any
explanation, it was well calculated to mislead the jury.
Mere formal alterations of a combination in letters-patent
do not constitute any defence to the charge of infringement,
as the inventor of a combination is as much entitled to suppress every other combination of the same ingredients to
produce the same result, not substantially different from
what he has invented and caused to be patented, as the inventor of any other patented improvement. Such inventors
may claim equivalents as well as any other class of inventors, and they have the same right to suppress every other
subsequent improvement, not substantially different from
what they have invented and secured by letters-patent, but
they cannot suppress subsequent improvements which are
substantially different from their inventions, whether the
new improvement consists in a new combination of the same
* Qu. First claim.-REF.

GOULD V. REES.

Dec. 1872.]

Opinion of the court.

ingredients or of some newly-discovered ingredient, or even
or some old ingredient performing some new function, not
known at the date of the letters-patent, as a proper substitute for the ingredient withdrawn.*
Unquestionably the withdrawal of one ingredient in a
patented combination and the substitution of another which
was well known at the date of the patent as a proper substitute for the one withdrawn, is a mere formal alteration of
the combination; and if the ingredient substituted perfbrms substantially the same function as the one withdrawn,
it would be correct to instruct the jury that such a substitution of one ingredient for another would not avoid the
charge of infringement.
Grant all that, and still it is clear that the concession will
not support the charge of the court, as it is equally clear
that if the combination constituting the invention claimed
in the subsequent patent was new, or if the ingredient substituted for the one withdrawn was a newly discovered one,
or even an old one performing some new function, and was
not known at the date of the plaintiff's patent, as a proper
substitute for the ingredient withdrawn, it would avoid the
infringement, as a new combination or a newly-discovered
ingredient substituted for the one omitted, or even an old
one performing a new function not known at the date of the
plaintiff's patent as a proper substitute for the one withdrawn, would not be an equivalent for the ingredient omitted
within the meaning of the patent law; nor could it be successfully claimed as such by the plaintiff in order to support
the charge of infringement. Such an alteration is not a
mere formal alteration, as the difference between the two
improvements is such that the new combination would be
the proper subject of a patent and consequently would avoid
the charge of infringement in a case like the one supposed
by the court.
Unexplained, the theory assumed by the court warranted
the jury in finding for the plaintiff, though the defendant in
*

VOL. XV.

Seymour v. Osborne, 11 Wallace, 555.

13

GOULD V. REES.

[Sup. or.

Opinion of the court.

constructing his machine omitted one of the ingredients of
the plaintiff's combination and substituted another in its
place to perform the same function, whether the ingredient
substituted for the one omitted was or was not newly discovered, or was or was not well known at the date of the
plaintiff's patent as a proper substitute for the one omitted
from the combination constituting the plaintiff's invention.
Bondfide inventors of a combination are as much entitled
to equivalents as the inventors of other patentable improvements; by which is meant that a patentee in such a case
may substitute another ingredient for any one of the ingredients of his invention if the ingredient substituted performs the same function as the one omitted and was well
known at the date of his patent as a proper substitute for
the one omitted in the patented combination. Apply that
rule, and it is clear that an alteration in a patented combination which merely substitutes another old ingredient for one
of the ingredients in the patented combination is an infringement of the patent, if the substitute performs the same function and was well known at the date of the patent as a proper
substitute for the omitted ingredient, but the rule is otherwise if the ingredient substituted was a new one, or performs a substantially different function, or was not known
at the date of the plaintiff's patent as a proper substitute for
the one omitted from his patented combination.
Where the defendant in constructing his machine omits
entirely one of the ingredients of the plaintiff's combination
without substituting any other, he does not infringe, and if
he substitutes another in the place of the one omitted, which
is new or which performs a substantially different function,
or if it is old, but was not known at the date of the plaintiff's
invention as a proper substitute for the omitted ingredient,
then he does not infringe.*
Tested by these principles, as the instruction in question
* Carver v. Hyde, 16 Peters, 514; Vance v. Campbell, 1 Black, 427;
Roberts v. Harnden, 2 Clifford, 504; Mabie v. Haskell, lb. 511; Brooks v.
Fiske, 15 Howard, 219; Stimpson v. Railroad, 10 Id. 329; prouty v. Ruggles,
16 Peters, 341 ; Barrett v. Hall, 1 Mason, 477; Howe v. Abbott, 2 Story, 194.

Dec. 1872.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. JOHNSON.
Opinion of the court.

must be, it is plainly erroneous, as it warranted the jury in
finding for the plaintiff, whether the ingredient substituted
fof the one omitted was new or old, or whether the one substituted was or was not well known at the date of the plaintiff's patent as a proper substitute for the omitted ingredient.
JUDGMENT REVERSED AND A NEW VENIRE ORDERED.

RAILROAD

COMPANY

V.

JOHNSON.

The constitutionality of the acts of Congress of February 25th, 1862, and
of subsequent acts in addition thereto, making certain notes of the
United States a legal tender in payment of debts, reaffirmed.

IN error to the Supreme Court of Errors of Connecticut.
Johnson sued the Norwich and Worcester Railroad Company on certain coupons for interest attached to bonds,
made by the said company A. D. 1860. When the coupons
fell due, the amount was tendered in the legal-tender notes
of the United States, issued under the act of Congress of
February 25th, 1862, and the several acts in addition thereto,
and they were refused. The State court rendered judgment
that this tender was not good, and that the plaintiff should
receive the amount with interest in the gold and silver coin
of the United States. This writ of error was brought to
reverse that judgment.
Mr. J. Halsey, for the plaintiff in error. No opposing eounsel.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
In accordance with the principles settled by this court in
the cases of Knox v. Lee, and Parker v. -Davis,* which were
affirmed in _Dooley v. Srnilh,t the tender was a good and valid
one, and the judgment for coin is erroneous, and must be
reversed.
* 12 Wallace, 457.

t 18 Id. 604.

