CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

104
1821.

Indenberger

(CoMoN LAW.

PRoMIssoRY NOTES.)

7.

Beall
LINDENBERGER

et al. V BEALL.

After demand of the maker of a note, on the third day of grace. notice
to the endorser on the same day, is sufficient by the general law
merchant.
EWidence of a letter. contaimng notice, having been put into the postoffice, directed to the endorser, at his place of residence, is sufficient proof of the notice to be left to the jury, and it is unnecessary to give notice to the defendant to produce the lettee before such
evidence can be admitted.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of
Columbia.
Assumpsit against the defendant, (Beall,) as endorser of a promissory note, drawn by one Tunis.
Craven, dated at Baltimore, October 22d, 1811, in
favoir of the defendant, and by him endorsed to the
plaintiffs, for 191 dollars 17 cents, negotiable at the
bank of Washington, payable six months after date.
At the trial the note was given in evidence, and the
handwriting of the drawer and endorser admitted.
The plaintiffs farther proved, by a notary, that the
note was, by him, demanded of the drawer, on Saturday the 25th of April, 1812, being the day on
which it became payable, that is, the last day of
-grace. And not being paid, notice of the non-payment thereof was enclosed in a letter addressed to
the defendant, at the city of Washington, and put
into the post-office at Georgetown. The notary
testified, that he had no recollection of these facts.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

and only knew them from his notarial book, and.the

1821.

protest made out at the time, by which it appeared, Linaenber"Of-.

that a demand was then made of the drawer, and
the protest made, and notice sent; and from its being
his invariable practice to give notice either personally, or by letter, to the endorsers on the same day.
Nor did he then recollept that he addressed the'letter
to the defendant in Washington, but he presumed
from his book, and protest, and his uniform practice,
that if he did not know where the defendant lived,
(which was probably the case when he received the
note,) he inquired, and ascertained his residence,
and addressed it properly Upon which evidence
the defendant's counsel prayed the- Court to instruct
the jury, that the above proof of notice was insufficient to charge the defendant as endorser of said
note, and that the plaintiffs were not entitled to recover. Which opinion the Court-gave. The plaintiffs' counsel excepted to the opinion. A verdict and.
judgment thereon was rendered for the defendant
by the Court below, and the cause was brought by
writ of error to this Court.
Mr. Key, for the plaintiff, was stopped by the
Court.

Mr. Jones and Mr. Law, for the defendant, contended, that the notice was insufficient (I.) because it was on the third day of grace, and, (2.)
that there was no sufficient proof of notice having
been sent by mail, or' of the contents of the letter
sent, and that before secondary evidece would bo
VOL. VI.

14

ger
V.

Beaih

F-ar

TIP

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
isil.
c
Meciaamcs'
Bank of
Alexandria

V.

Withers.

let in to prove the contents, notice should have been
given to the defendant to produce it.

The COURT were unanimously of opinion, that
after demand of the maker on the third day of grace,
notice to the endorser on. the same day was sufficient, by the general law merchant , and that evidence of the letter containing notice having been
put into the post-office, directed to the defendant, at
his place of residence, was sufficient proof-of the
nnice to be left to the jury, and that it was unnecessary to give notice to the defendant to produce
the letter before such evidence could be admitted.
Judgment reversea.

(LoCAL LAw.

aRACTICE.)

THF MECHANICS' BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
V. WITHERS.

The Circuit Court for the District of Columbia has authority to adjourn to a distant day, and the adjourned session is considered as the
same'term.
Mhere the regular term began on the 3d Monday in April!n4 the
Court continued.to sit, de die m diem, until 1he 16th of May, when
it adjourned to the 4th Monday of June, held, that a defendant,
against whom an office judgm6ent had been entered on the 16th of
May, had a right, under the laws and practice of Virginia, to appear
at the adjourned spssion, and have the default set aside, on. gsvng
special bail, and pleading issnably.

