550

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

.121.
Kerr
a.

(CITANCERY.

watts.

KERR et

LOCAL LAw.)

al. v.

WATTS.

The ddlcion of this C6urt, in Masne v. Walls, 6 Crancli, 148. revised and confirmed.
Who are necessary parties in equity.
The rule applied in equity to the relief of bonz fde purchasers with-outnotice, ts not applicable to the case of purchasers of military
land warrants under the laws of Virginia.
Such purchasers are considered as affected with notice by the record
of the entry, and also of the survey; and subsequent purchasers
are considered as acquiring the interest of the person making the
entry; so that purchtsers under conflicting entries are considered
as purchasing under distinct rights, in which case the rule, as to
innocent purchasers, does not apply.
The principle, that only parties, or privies, or purchasers pendente
ie, are bound by a decree in equity, how -applied to this case.
The surveys actually made on the military land warrants of Virginia,
have not the force of judicial acts, or of acts done by the deputations of officers asgeneral agents of the continental officers.

APPEAL

from the Circuit Court of Ohio.

Ferdinando O'Neal was owner of a Virginia military warrant for 4,000 acres of land, dated the 17th
of Julyr, 1783, and employed Nathaniel Massie, a
deputy surveyor, to locate it, and to survey and return the plats.
John Watts purchased the right of O'Neal, and
on the 7th of January, 1801, paid Massie 50 pounds
in full satisfaction for locating and surveying the
warrant.
On the 3d of August, 1787, Massie made an entry
on part of O'Neal's warrant for 1,000 acres. On

551

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the same day an entry had been made for 1,000
acres for Robert Powell, which was purchased by

Massie.
On the 27th of January, 1795, Massie made an
entry in his own name for 2,366 acres, and the bill,
filed in the Court below by the respondent, Watts,
against the appellants, Kerr and others, charges,
that on the 26th of April, 1796, Massie fraudulently
made a survey for O'Neal, for 530 acres, purporting
to be made upon his said entry of 1,000 acres, but,
in fact, on different land, having fraudulently appropriated to himself the land covered by O'Neal's
entry, by surveys made on Powell's and his own
entries, having purchased Powell's warrant and entry
before the surveys were made.
The bill further states, that Massie had obtained
grants upon his survey.
Watts commenced a suit in Chancery against
Massie in the State Court of Kentucky, claiming a
conveyance of the legal title, and proceeded to a
final hearing upon the merits, in the Circuit Court
of Kentucky, to which it had been removed, which
last Court, in the November term, 1807, made an interlocutory decree, in favour of Watts, and directed
the proper surveyor to lay off the several entries in
the manner pointed out in that decree, and to report
to the Court in order to a final decree in the premises.
The cause was finally decided by a decree directing Massie to convey the 1,000 -acres to Watts according to certain metes and bounds reported, and to
deliver possession, &c., and upon performance of

ism1.
Kerr

v.

Watts.

552
1821.

'
V.
Watts.
Herr

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the decree by Massie, Watts was directed to transfer
to him 1,000 acres of O'Neals warrant.
Massie appealed to this Court, where the decree
of the Circuit Court was affirmed, at February term,
1810.'
Massie refused to convey or deliver possession
when demanded, and in the mean time part of the
property recovered had been laid out into lots of the
town of Chilicothe, and the bill charges the appellants, and others, who were made. defendants in the
present suit, with having in possession, respectively,
part of the complainant's property, and claiming to
hold the same by titles derived under Massie.
The record of the proceedings in Kentucky, and
in the Supreme Court, were referred to, and made
part of the bill in this case.
The entries before mentioned are as follows " No. 503. Captain Robert Powell enters 1,000
acres of land, &c. Beginning at the upper corner
on the Scioto of Major Thomas Massie's entry, No.
480, running up the river 520 poles, when reduced
to a straight line, thence from the beginning with
Massie's line, so far that a line parallel to the general course of the river shall include the quantity."
" No. 509 Captain Ferdinand O'Neal enters
1,000 acres, &c. Beginning at the upper corner on
the Scioto of Rgbert Powell's entry, 503, running up
the river 500 poles, when reduced to a straight line,
and from the beginining with Powell's line, so far
that a line parallel with the general course of the
river will include the quantity."
a 6 Cranch. 148.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

No. 2462 Nathaniel Massie enters 2,366 acres,
&c. on the bank of Scioto, corner to Robert Powell';
survey, No. 503, thence with his line south 43 east
293 poles, south 80 east to the upper back corner
of Thomas Massie's survey, No. 480, thence with
his line south 10 west, to Paint Creek, thence up the
creek to the corner of Thomas Lawes' survey,
thence with his line, and from the beginning up the
Scioto to the lower corner of Daniel Stull's survey,
thence with his line so far that a line south 10 west,
will include the quantity "
But these entries depended on one which preceded
them on the entry book, made by Thomas Massie,
as follows:
" No. 480 1787, August 3d. Thomas Massie
enters 1,.00 acres, &c. Beginning at the junction
of Paint Creek with the Scioto, running up the
Scioto 520 poles when reduced to a straight line,
thence off at right angles, with the general course
of the river so far that a line parallel thereto will include the quantity."
This Court, in the case referred to, decided, that
Thomas Massie's survey ought to commence at the
mouth of Paint Creek, and that the upper corner
on the river should be placed at the termination of a
right line at the distance of 520 poles, and the survey extended out at right angles with the general
course of a right line supposed from the beginning
to the upper corner and that, from the upper corner
of Thomas Massie's survey2 a point on'the river, at
the distance of 520 poles on a right line should be
11

V0r.. W.

70

1821.
Kerr

V.
wattb.

554
1821.
"Kerr
v.

Watt.

CASES IN THE SUPRFME COURT

ascertained for the upper corner of Powell's, and
that the real course of a right line from Thomas
Massie's corner to Powell's upper corner, should be
considered as a base from which Powell's survey
should be-extended by lines at right angles-therewith,
except -only so far as the lower line might interfere
with Thomas Massie's property.
The survey cf O'-Neal to depend upon the same
principles in relation to the survey of Powell.
The object of the present suit was to carry into
execution against the defendants, Who have acquired
Massi's tide, the decree against kmin Kentucky,
affirmed in this Court.
The Court below, by their decree, gave relief against
each, for the specific property claimed by the answer
of each, construing the. entries according to the principles-of the former decision, except in varying the
complainant's survey, by a decision that a piece of
land called an Island in the river, was part of the
main shore when the entries were made, and included-as a part of the bank.
The defendants all submitted to the decree, except
Kerr, Poolittle, Joseph Kirkpatrick, sen. Joseph
Kirkpatrick, jun., and the heirs of James Johnston,
who appealed to this Court.

rammy i6.

The Attorney- Generat and Mr. Scott, for the appellants, argued, (.) that the survey made for Powell ought to be established, because made under the
superintendance of officers to whom the State of
Virginia had deputed the sovereign and exclusive
authority to regulate -uch surveys, similar to the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

powers of commissioners to adjust pre-emption

mi.

rights : and that their determination was conclusive,
being an inseparable condition annexed to the grant
from the State.8 'The existence and power of these.
agents-has been recognised -by the Court.b (2.) The
appellant, Kerr, is an innocent purchaser without
notice, who holds the legal estate with superior
equity, and therefore. cannot be disturbed by the alleged equity of Watts. The cause having been set
down for hearing on the-bill and answers, his answer
is conclusive evidence as to every fact which it
states * and it does state that at the filing of the
bill he had the legal title; and that before either
party purchased, the entries had been surveyed, and
become matters of record.. A survey returned and
recorded is notice., He i not affected by -the supposed fraud of Massie in making Powes survey.
Massie was only one-of several mesne purchasers of
Powell's rights; and-if Powell,. the. originalholder,
was innocent, a subsequent purchaser under him has
a right to the shield of his innocence, even though
such purchaser had notice.e Nor is the appellant-a
lite pendente purchaser, because the former suit was
brought in Kentucky,.out of the jurisdiction where
the land lies/ The rule ip borrowed from the com-

K

a 2 Ventr 365. 3 Ch. Cas. 135.
6 Wallace v. Anderson, 5 Wheat. Rep. 291.
c Wheat. Dig. Dec. fit. Chancery, pl. 142. Leeds v. Mar. Ins.

Co. '2 Wheat. Rep. 380.
d 3 Bnneyj's Rep. 118.
e 2 At. 242. It )7e. 478, Sugd. Vend. 438.

f 2 P. Wins. 482.

V.
Watts.

66

CASES IN THE SUPREMER COURT

18a1.

%AVI
Kerr

v.

Watts.

mon law; and its analogies must, therefore, be pursued. A verdict and judgment at law, or a decree in
equity, .affecting the title to land, are local in their
nature. The Us pendens must be -on the question of
title directly, and not incidentally. The principle
is confined to ,those who attempt: to originate a title
pendente lite, and is -never extended to those who
had acquired a title previously, and who-ought, therefore, to have been made parties to the s pendens.
Its policy..is to preventv the parties from alienating,
and thug evadiig'thejustice of ihe Court. Even if
the appellant had no legal fitle, but had- only the better right to call for -it, he could not be affected in
emuty by .the pendency of the former suit.4 Nor is
lie bound as privy to the former decree. No person
can be bound-as such, who ought-to have been made
a party: as to all who ought to have been parties,
such a dectee is considered-as a fraud.b Those only
are privies, who- acquire this interest subsequent -to
the institution of the suit, by the decree in which
they- are sought to be affected. Besides, the-question here is substantially different from that which
arose in-the former case. There it was as to the responsibility-of an agent-to his principal, for an alleged
fraud. Here it is as to the dispossession of a bona
fide purchaser.
Mr. Doddrzdge and Mr. Hardin, contra, stated
that- they should not examine the correctness of the
-a 2 Vern. 599.
l I Bihney's Rep. 217. 2 Binney 40. 455. 3 Binney, 114.

OF THE UNITED'STATES.

decision in the former case, "hor the question whether the-appellants were bound by the decree against
Massie, under whom they claim ; since, whether.they
were bound by it as a res judicata or not, the Court
would not'change-the application of the former adjudication, unless the appellants showed themselves
to be purchasers for a valuable conside'ation without
notice, or unless the respondent had been guilty of
some -gross negligence. The defence of being a
purchaser without notice, can never be set up by or
against one claiming under a different original title.
It is admitted to be the general rule, that where
the cause is set down for a hearing on the bill and
answer, the answer of the defendant is conclusive.
but where the answer proceeds upon the ground of
making, the. defendant an innocent purchaser, and the
records, &c. made part of the bill, show that he cannot be such, there the law charging him with-notice
from the registry, forms an exception to the rule.
The title of the respondent is an imperfect legal title, and his claim being a matter of record, cannot
be treated as a latent equity, for negligence in prosecuting which he shall lose his property. In the system of land laws which has been established in this
country, land titles commence by a recQrd' and the
very first step confers an inchoate legal title.

557
1821.
Kerr

v.
Watts.

Mr. Justice JoHNsoN delivered the opinion of the xaw, iwL.

Court.
This cause has its origin in the case decided in
this Court between Watts and Masste, in the year
1810.

,558
IS2.
Kerr
Kerr

V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

That suit came up from -the Kentucky Distric,
and was-prosecuted there because Massie, the defendant, then resided in that State, and either was, or
was supposed to be, actually seised
of the land in

question.
Since that decision, it has been ascertained that
the present defendants are in possession of 'the land,
or the greater part of it, and Massie also having
changed his residence to Ohio, this smt has become
necessary, both to enforce the former decree against
him, and to obtain relief against the actual possessors
of the land.
In the course of discussion, the Court has been
deci.
Former
in thisca
sion
a called on to review its decision in Watts and Massw,
rvised
and it has patiently heard, and deliberately consi-

dered, the able and well-conducted argument on this
subject. But, after the maturest reflection, it adheres to the opinion aiat, whether the case be viewed
with reference to the time, intent, and meaning of the
calls, to analogy to decided cases, or convenience in
the voluntary adoption of a principle of the most ge-

neral application, that laid down in the -case of
Watts and Massw., for running the lines of the land
called for, cannot be deviated from. So far, therefore, as Massie himself, and his privies in estate,
are concerned, Watts is now entitled to the full benefit of that decision.
But there -are various other defendants, and sevety
tu, m
of dffence assumed in this case, which
necessary
&ar ral, grounds
ties.bow parap.pblcable to
are unaffected by the decision referred to.
tp',c e
It is contended, in the first place, that there is a
radical defect of parties. That the representatives

OF THE UNITED ST.&TES.

,fi9

of O'Neal and Scott,.through whom the complainant
1821.
Massie,
and
Thomas
claims,. and those of Powell
H err
V.
supposed- to be hostile to his interests, ought to have
Wata
parties.
been made
On this point there may be given one general
answer. No one-need be made a party complainant
in whom there exists no j, rest, and no one party
defendant from whom notaing is demanded. Watts
rests his case upon the averment that all the interests
once vested in O'Neal and the Scots, now centre in
himself; and, provided he can recover the land now
ia possession of those actually made defendants, he
is contented afterwards to meet the just ciaims of
any others who are not made defendants. No rights
will be affected by his recovery, but those of the actoal defendants, and those claiming through them.
As to the supposed interference of the lines ordered
to he surveyed, with those of Thomas Massie, or
Powell, the former is merely hypothetical by way of
reference, or imaginary ; and the latter is only asserted on the ground that Massie had, acquired all
the interest in Powell's survey that Powell ever had.
There was therefore nothing to demand of Powell,
as the case is exhibited by the record. It must be
subject to these modifications, that the obiter dictum
of the Court, in the case of Simms and Guthrze, is
to be understood.
ap.
'rinciple
to the re.
It is next contended, in: behalf of Kerr, and several plied
(eiftf
6:;A
purchasers
through
claim
they
other defendants, that
purchasers
who were bona fide purchasers without notice, for a without notice,
valuable consideration. And at first view it would to thi case.

seem, that the principles so often applied to the re-

560
1821.

1
Kerr
V.

Watts.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

lief of innocent purchasers, are applicable to the case
of these defendants, wherever the facts sustain the
defence. But it, will njit do at this day, to apply
this principle to the case of purchasers of military

land-warrants, derived under the laws of Virginia.
In all the Courts in which such cases have come
under review, the purchasers have been considered
as affected by the record notice of the entry, and
also of the survey, such as it legally ought to be
made, as incident to, or bound up in the entry It
is altogether a system suz generzs, and subsequent
purchasers are considered as acquiring the interest of
the entror, and not necessarily that of the State. So
that purchasers under conflicting entries are considered as purchasing under distinct rights, in which
case the principle here contended for does not apply,
since the ignorance of a purchaser of a defective title, cannot make that title good, as against an independent and better right. These principles may safely
be laid hold of, to support a doctrine which, however
severe occasionally in its operation, was perhaps indispensable to the protection of the interests acquired
under military land-warrants, when we take into
.consideration the facility with which such interests
might otherwise, in all cases, have been defeated by
early transfers.
It is further contended, that the defendants are
The former
decree, how far
conclustve int
the presentcase. not bound by the decree in the case of ratts and
Masse, because neither parties, nor privies, nor Pendente lite purchasers.
That those who come not into this Court, in any
one of those characters, are not subject to the direct

OF THE UNITED STATES.

and binding efficacy of an adjudication, is unquestionable. But it is not very material as to the prmcipal question in this case, whether the parties are to
be affected .by the former adjudication directly, or by
the declared adherence of this Court to the doctrines
established in that case. The consequence to the
parties on the merits of the case is the same.
But in one view it is material, and that is with regard to the proof of the exhibits, through which
Watts, the complainant, deduces his title through the
Scots from O'Neal. As Massie, in the former case,
(the record of which is made a proof of this,) acquiesced in this deduction of Watts' title, we are of opinion that it is, as to him and his privies in estate, a
point conceded. As to parties and privies, the principle cannot be contested, and as to pendente lite
purchasers, it is not necessary to determine the question, since the only defendants who have appealed
from the decision below, to wit, Kerr, the Kirkpatricks, Doolittle, and the Johnsons, claim under purchases made long anterior to this scrip, in Kentucky.
Those defendants certainly were entitled to a plenary defence, and where they have, by their answers,
put the complainant upon proof of his allegations, as
to his deduction of title, the question arises, Whether
it appears from the record that the deduction of title
was legally proved.
There can be no doubt that this question passed
sub silentio in the Court below, -but it does not appear from any thing on the record, that the point
was waived, and we are not at liberty to look beVOL. V1.

71

i81.

"Kerr
V.

Watts.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

W62
1si.

"

Kerr

V.

Watt.

yond the record for the evidence on which the deduction of title was sustained.

Although we entertain no doubt, that exhibits
may, on the trial, be proved by parol testimony, yet
a-note on the minutes, or on the exhibit, became indispensFible to transmit the fact to this Court, and
as the case furnishes no such memorandum, we must
consider the assignments through -which Watts derived his title from O'Neal,. as not having been established by evidence. Such was thh decision of
this Court in the case of Drummozd v. M Gruder.
But Kerr is the only one of these appellants who
has expressly put the complainant on. proof of his
title. The rest of the appellants having passed over
this subject without any notice in their answer, the
question is, whether they waived their right to call
for evidence to prove these exhibits. We are of
opinion they have not, and that the complainant is
always bound to prove his title, unless it be admitted
by the answer.
There are two principles of a more general nature,
of which all the appellants claim the benefit, and
which, as the cause must go back, will require consideration.
It is contended, that Nathaniel Massie was the
acknowledged agent of both O'Neal and Watts, and
that the complainant is precluded by his acts done in
that capacity. This argument is resorted to, as well
to fasien on Watts the survey made. in his behalf
above the town of Chilicothe, as a relinquishment
of all clhim to a location at the place now contended for in his behalf. But in neither of these vievh

M

OF THE UNITED STATES.

can this Court apply this principle in favour of the
defendants; for, it follows from the principles established for surveying O'Neal's entry, that the survey
made by Massie on O'Neal's entry, was illegal and.

ism2.
Kerr

V.

Watts.

void; and, certainly, ,when employed in locating the
entries made in favour of Powell and himself, Massie
was not acting as. the agent of O'Neal or Watts, but
as the agent of Powell, or, in fact, in his own behalf. The survey, on which this argument rests,
was at best but partial ; and .it is conclusive against
it to observe, that the powers of Massie, as agent of
Watts, were limited to the entry and mechanical acts
of the survey. The recording of that survey, and
all those solemn acts which give. it legal validity, it
does not appear that his powers extended to. Watts
n&ier recognised that survey,.or assumed the obligatory effects of it by any act of his own, and in fact,
in the event, (though not a material circumstance to
the result we -come to,) it has since been ascertained
that it was not only made off Watts's entry, but on
land appropriated by another.
under
But it has been contended, also, that all these sur of Surveys
ilitary
he
veys actually made on the military land warrants of land wnt
the f.
have not
Virginia, derive the authenticity and force of judicial fect
o. a, 'aesu.
acts, or of acts done by the general agents of the dfcata,
continental officers respectively, from the superin-

tending and controlling powers vested in the deputations of officers. as the law denominates them, appointed by themselves to superintend the appropriation of the military reserves set apart for their
use. It is to be presumed, it is contended, that every
survey made by their authorized surveyors, was

CASES- IN THE SUPREME -COURT

6
1821.

"
v.

Kerr

Watts.

made under their controj and direction. This Court
does not feel itself authorized-to raise any such presumption. The -powers actually exercised by those
commissioners, were limited to very few -objects.
The surveying of. entries at a very early period,. became a judicial subject. And the commissioners,
or rather. deputations of. officers, never assumed a
right to adjust the conflicting interests of individuals
upon the locating and surveying of such entries.
To appoint surveyors, to speruitend and direct the
drawing of lots for precedemce among the locators,
to direct the !ur.ve forofficers and soldiers not present or not represented,. and: to determine when the
good lands. bet veen the Cumberlandand Tennessee
should be .exb usted,, comprehended all ihe powers
with which they::were,-vestod. - As individual agents
capable of binding,their.. princlpals, they appear in
one case, and Wnly on6,-which was.when the officer
,orsoldier was alpent and. unrpresented And as to,
judicial powers, therb is no provision of the act that
vests them with a semblance of such. a power, unless
it be to judge of the. right of -priority as determihied
by lot. But here, also; they appear more properly
in the character of ministerial officers- discharging a
diity without the least latitude of judgment or discretion. Their powers in nothing resemble that of
the Courts of Commissioners established through the
back counties of Virginia. As to the subjects submitted to the boards so constituted, (of which military warrants were no part,) those boards were expressly vested with judicial power. But the powers
of the deputations of officers were purely ministerial.

6W

OF THE UNITED STATES.

-AndIfit be admitted, that they might have exercised
the power of defining the principles on whioh surveys
should have been made, yet it is certainly incumbent
on him who would avail himself of that power, to
show that it was exercised, and to bring himself within the rules prescribed by their authority.
Decree reversed as to these appellants, and sent
back. for further proceedings.

1821.
Le

V.
Ins. Co.

The Marine

(CHANCERY.)
LEEDS

et al. v. "THE MARINE INSURANCE
COMPANY.

Application of the law of set-off and lien in Equity, under peculiar
circumstances.

APPEAL from

the Circuit Court for the District of

Columbia.
This was a suit in -Equity, commenced in the
Court below by the respondents against the appellants, in which the mjunction obtained on the filing
of the bill was made perpetual. The facts are stated
in the opinion of the Court.
This cause was argued by Mr. Swann and Mr.
Jones for the-appellant, ,and by the Attorney- General
and Mr. Lee for the-respondents.

Marca 97t.

