OF THE UNITED STATFM

the same is hereby reversed and annulled. And it
is farther ordered, that the said cause be remanded
to the .said Supreme Court for the Eastern District
of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, with directions to enter judgment for the plaintiffs in the said

Court.

(CommoN LAvW.

COWSTaUCTION oF STATUTE.)

UNITED STATES V. WILKINS.

Where, in a, contract with the Secretary of War, for supplying tle
troops of the United States with provisions, specific prices are stipa-lated for rations issued at certain places mentioned in the contract;
and it is further provided, that "should any rations be required at
any places not specified in this contract, the price of the same shall
be hereafter agreed on betwixt the public and the contractor;" it
the parties cannot agree upon the price for the rations thus required. a reasonable compensation is to be allowed, and is to be proved
by competent evidence, and settled by a jury; and the contractor,
upon the trial, is at liberty to show, that the sum allowed by the
Secretary of War is not a reasonable compensation.
Under the 3d and 4tb sections of the act of the 3d of March, 1797,
c. 74. the defendant is. entitled, at the trial, to the full benefit of
any credit in his favour, whether ansing out of the particular transaction for which he was sued, or out of distinct and independent
transactions, which would constitute a legal or equitable set-off, in
whole or in part, of the debt sued for by the United States.

THIS was an action of debt brought in the District
Court of Kentucky against the defendant, a former

contractor for supplying the troops of the United

1821.
U. states

V.
Wilkins.

eASES IN I'HE SUPREME COURT
1821.
U. States

v.

"Wilans.

States with provisions. The defendant pleaded nil
debet. The attorney of the United States, to support the issue on the part of the United States, produced a certain account marked A. The counsel
for the defendant, to support the issue on his part,
produced the contract marked B. , also, a paper
marked C., and an account for contingent claims,
marked D. By the contract entered into between
the defendant and the Secretary of War, on the 3d of
July, 1801, it was, among other things, agreed, that
the. contractor should receive "for every complete
ration issued at the Chickasaw Bluffs, at Nashville,
at Bear Creek, on the Tennessee, or at any other
place on the road between Nashville and Bear Creek,
fourteen cents ;" and " for every complete ration
issued at any place in the Chickasaw or Chocktaw
country, on the road between Bear Creek and
Natchez, eighteen cents and one half cent ;" and
that, " should any rations be required at any places,
or within any other Districts not specified in this
contract, the price of the same shall be hereatter
agreed on betwvixt the public and the contractor."
It appeared from the evidence, that at the time the
contract was entered into, the road from Nashville
to Natchez crossed the Tennessee river at the mouth
of Bear Creek, which empties into the Tennessee
river on the southwest side. That after the date of
the contract, a new road from Nashville to Natchez,
passing, through the Chickasaw and Chocktaw
country, was cut out by the United States' troops,
whch crossed the Tennessee river about twelve or
fourteen miles above the mouth of Bear Creek, and

OF THE UNITED STATE$.

about ten miles further from Nashville. That during the continuance of the contract, a cantonment
was established on the southwest side of the Tennessee river, at the crossing point of the new road,
and in the Chickasaw country. That the rations on
which the two first deductions were made in the
paper marked C., were issued at this cantonment,
and on the new road as far as Bear Creek. That
supplying rations at the cantonment, and on the road
as aforesaid, was more expensive to the contractor
than it would have been at the mouth of Bear
Creek. That Fort Deposit is situated on the road
from Natchez to Nashville, on the northeast side of
the Bayou Piere, about half a mile above the Grindstone Ford. That when the contract was entered
into, the Bayou Piere was considered the Chocktaw
boundary , but at the treaty afterwards held at Fort
Adams, it was discovered, that an old boundary line
existed between -the Chocktaw Indians and the
French, twenty miles in advance from the Grindstone Ford, and this line was adopted in the treaty.
That at this post the rations were deposited, on which
the third deduction was made in the paper marked C.
On the trial of this cause, the following questions
occurred
1. Whether, under the contract marked B., the
defendant was entitled to the sums, or either of them,
disallowed in the papers C. and D., which had been
presented to the proper officers, and by them disallowedP
2. If the defendant be not entitled to the amount
VOL. VI

18

1821.
U. States

v.
wilkans.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.
U. States

.V.
Wilins.

claimed in the first, second and third items, or either
Sof
them In the paper marked C., on the ground, that
the place at which the rations were delivered is not
specially provided for in the contract, has he a -right
to show, that the sum allowed by the Secretary of
War for those rations is not a reasonable compensation P
3. Upon such proof, is the defendant entitled to a
reasonable compensation for those rations to be ascertained by the jury P
4. If the defendant be entitled to any of the above
sums, can he be permntted to claim a credit for them
in this suit
The opiniont of the Judges of the Circuit Court
being opposed apon these questions, they were ordered to he certified to this Court, according to the
act bf Congress.

Frbuary !h.

This cause was argued by the Attorney- General,
for the Uni'ed Stares, and by Mr. Jones and Mr. B.
Hardin,for the defendant.

Fe&=ay i4!h.

Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the
a He cited the case of the Commonwealth v
4 Dall. 303. in which it was held by the Supreme
Pennsylvania, under the statute of that State, that a
the Commonwealth, who was sued by it, could not

Matlack,
Court of
debtor to
indirectly

recover from the State a substaptive, independent claim, by way
of set-off, any more than he could directly recover a debt due
from-the State by bringing a suit against it. He, also, cited
the United States v. Giles, 9 Cranch, 212. 228. to the same

effect.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Court. This case comes up from the Circuit Court
of Kentucky, upon a division of opinion of the
Judges upon certain questions stated in the record.
It appears from the record, that the defendant, on
the 3d of July, 1801, entered into certain articles of
agreement with the Secretary at War, for supplying
the troops of the United States with provisions, at
certain places enumerated in the contract. Among
other things, the articles provide, that the contractor
should receive, "for every complete ration issued
at the Chickasaw Bluffs, at Nashville,.at Bear Creek,
on the Tennessee, or at any place on the road between Nashville and Bear Creek, fourteen cents;"
and, "for every complete ration issued at any place
in the Chickasaw or Chocktaw country, on the road
between Bear Creek and Natchez, etghteen cents and
one half cent ;" and that, "1should any rations be
reqired at any places or within any other Districts
not specified in this contract, the price of the same
shall be hereafter agreed on betwixt the public and
the contractor."
At the time the contract was entered into, the
road from Nashville to Natchez crossed the Tennessee river at the mouth of Bear Creek, which
empties into Tennessee river on the southwest side.
After the date of the contract, a new road from
Nashville to Natchez, passing through the Chickasaw and Chocktaw country, was cut by the United
States troops, which crossed the Tennessee river
about twelve or fourteen miles above the mouth of
Bear Creek, and about ten miles further from Nashville. During the continuance of the contract, a

1s21.
U. Starer

V.
Wilkm&

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

140
1821.

U. States

V.
WilkIns.

cantonment was established on the southwest side
of the river Tennessee, at the crossing point of the
new road, and in the Chickasaw county. At this
cantonment certain rations were issued by the de-

fendant, for which he claimed the contract price of
eighteen and a half cents a ration, as rations issued
in the Chckasaw country This claim was disallowed by the Treasury Department, and constitutes
the first and second items of an account presented to
the Treasury, and referred to in the first question as
the paper marked C. The remaining item of the
same account, which was disallowed by the Treasury, was for certain rations deposited at Fort Deposit, for which the defendant claimed, also, the
contract price of eighteen and a half cents a ration,
as rations issued in the Chocktaw country. At the
time the contract was made, Fort Deposit was considered within the Chocktaw boundary, but at the
treaty afterwards held at Fort Adams, it was discovered, that an old boundary line existed between the
French and the Chocktaws, which was the line
adopted by that treaty, and excluded Fort Deposit
from the Chocktaw country. There is another account annexed to the record marked D., consisting
of certain claims of the defendant against the United
States, which were presented to and disallowed by
the Treasury Department. Upon these claims it is
unnecessary to say more, than- that this Court entirely concurs in the opinion of the Treasury Department.
The first question, then, is, whether the defendant
constction of
the contrt
is entitled to any or all of the items disallowed by

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the Treasury Department in the account C. It is
s821.
contended on behalf of the United States, that the U.
-- states
two first items for rations issued and deposited at the
v.
Wilkis.
were
Creek,
Bear
cantonment on the new road on
within that part of the contract providing for rations
issued "at any place on the road between Nashville
and Bear Creek," for which the defendant was entitled to the contract price of fourteen cents only ;
and that this sum had been allowed therefor at the
Treasury. On the other hand, the defendants counsel pretends, as has been already stated, that this
cantonment was within the Chickasaw country, and
that the phrase, ," Bear Creek on the Tennessee,"
in the contract, means the mouth of Bear Creek, on
the Tennessee, so that the defendant is entitled to
the contract price of eighteen and a half cents.
We are, however, of opinion, on this point, that
the contract must necessarily be presumed to refer
.to the actual state of things at the time of its inception, inasmuch as there is nothing in it which shows
that the parties had in contemplation any prospective changes. The phrase, " Bear Creek, on the
Tennessee," seems to be an unusual description of
the junction of a creek with a river, but in its connection with the context, we are unable to give it
any other rational interpretation. And if this were
even doubtful, we are of opinion, that the road between Nashville and Bear Creek, spoken of in the
contract, is the road then in existence and use between those places, and cannot, in the absence of
all evidence of intention, be construed to mean a new
road not then laid out or made, nor shown to be in

142

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1821.

the contemplation of the parties.

The rations then

e
U. States

issued and deposited at the cantonment on the new

V.

road, were not provided for in the contract at a specific price , not at the price of fourteen cents, for

Wilkins.

they were not issued at any place on the old road
between Nashville and Bear Creek, described in the
contract, and not the price of eighteen and a half
cents, for it was not sufficient that the cantonment
should be in the Chickasaw and Chocktaw country,
but it must also be on the road between Bear Creek
and Natchez existing at the time of the contract.
The case, then, falls precisely within that clause of
the articles of agreement, that provides, that the
price of rations delivered at any other places not
specified, shall be thereafter agreed on betwixt the
public and the contractor, and this is the construction originally adopted by the Government itself.
The same reasons which lead us to this conclusion, constrain us to adopt the construction, that the
parties, in their contract, in referring to the Chickasaw and Chocktaw country, intended not a disputed, imaginary, or rightful boundary afterwards to
be settled , but the actual reputed boundary of that
country. If, then, Fort Deposit was within the reputed boundary at the time of the contract, the line
as afterwards settled by the treaty at Fort Adams,
though the true line, has nothing to do with the
case, and the rations deposited at Fort Deposit are
to be paid for at the contract price of eighteen and a
half cents a ration.
The second and third questions propounded by
the Circuit Court, may be shortly answered. If

143

OF THE UNITED STATES.

there be. no specific price agreed upQn in the contract for rations issued at any place, the contract
leaves the price to .be adjusted by the Government
both
and the contractor. It is-to be the joint act of

1821.
U. States

V.
wiikins.
Manner

i

the prie
whih
of
rations. issuparties,'and not the exclusive act of either. If they
not
IStcd atxlaces
apeid innh
cannot agree, then a reasonable compensation s to
to
contract, is

e sto
be allowed; and. that reasonable compensatin is to
be proved by competent evidence, and settled by a
jury, as in common cases, and the defendant upon
such a trial, is at liberty to show, that the sum allowed him by the Secretary of War is not a reasonable compensation.
DerendantenThe fourth question is, whether the defendant can tied
l u n d e r the
any
be permitted to claim a credit for the sums due him, statut,
against
credits to
under the contract, in this suit. The answer may the State.
e,or
materially depend upon the true construction of the wrcqeiteb
whteranrisng'
out of the same

out of disact of Congress of the third day of March, 1797, or
tinct transac-

c. 74. providing for the more effectual settlement of tions.
accounts between the United States and public receivers. The third sectionof that act provides, that
upon suits instituted against any person indebted to
the United States, judgment shall be rendered at the
return term, unless the defendant shall, in open
Court, make oath or affirmation, that he ss equitably
entitled to credits which had been previous to the
commencement of the suit submitted to the consideration of the accounting officers of the Treasury,
and rejected, &c. The fourth section then provides,
that in suits between the United States and individuals, no claim for a credit shall be admitted upon
trial, but such as shall appear to 'have been presented
to the accounting officers of the Treasury for their

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.

U.

V.

wiins,

examination, and by them disallowed in whole or in
part, unless it shall be proved to the satisfaction of

the Court, that the defendant is at the time of the
trial in possession of vouchers not before in his
power to procure. and that he was prevented from
exhibiting a claim for such credit at the Treasury
by absence from the tJnited States, or some unavoidable accident. The terms of these sections are
very broad and comprehensive. The third section
manifestly supposes, that not merely legal but equitable credits ought to be allowed to debtors of the
United States by the proper officers of the Treasury,
and the fourth section prohibits no claims for any
credits, which have been disallowed at the Treasury,
from being given in evidence by the defendant at the
trial. There being no limitation as to the nature
and origin of the claim for a credit which may be
set up in the suit, we think it a reasonable construction of the act, that it intended to allow the .defendant the full benefit at the trial of any credit, whether
arising out of the particular transaction for which
he was sued, or out of any distinct and independent
transaction, which would constitute a legal or equitable set-off, in whole or in part, of the debt sued for
by the United States. The object of the act seems
to be to liquidate and adjust all accounts between
the parties, and to require a judgment for such sum
only, as the defendant in equity and justice should
be proved to owe to the United States. If this be
the true construction of the act, which we do not
doubt, the defendant might well claim a credit in
this suit for the sums due him, even if they had

OF THE UNITED STATES.

grown out of distinct and independent transactions,
for he is legally, as well as equitably, entitled to
them. But even if this construction of the act were
case, as
doubtful, upon the facts of this particular
far as we can gather them, we should have probably come to the same result.
This suit seems to have been brought by the United States for the money price of certain provisions
received by the defendant under the articles of agreement. The real object of the suit is, therefore, to
procure an account and settlement of that claim. It
forms an item in the general account between the
parties, like every other advance made by- the Government to the defendant; and, independent of any.
statute provision, the defendant would have a right
to show, that he had accounted for the value of such
advance by delivering the equivalent provisions for
which it was originally made; In this view, also,
the fourth question might be answered in the affirmative.
The opinion of the Court will be certified accordingly to the Circuit Court of Kentucky:
1. That under the contract marked B., the defendant is not entitled to the sums disallowed in the
paper D., nor to the sums specifically charged in the
first and second items of the paper C., which were
disallowed by the Treasury officers, but is entitled
to the sum charged in the third item of the paper C.,
which was disallowed by the same officers, if Fort
Deposit was within the reputed boundary of the
dhocktaw country.
VOL. VI;

19

1821.
U. States

v.
Wilkxls.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

146
1821.
"
Young

V.
Bryan.

2. That the defendant is not entitled to the. first
and second items in the paper C., on the ground,
that the place at which the rations were delivered is
not specially provided for in the contract, but- that.
he has a right to show, that the sum allowed by the
Secretary of War for those rations, is not a, reasonable compensation.
3. That upon such proof the defendant is entitled
to a reasonable compensation for those rations, to -be
ascertained by the jury.
4. That the defendant ought to be permitted to
claim a credit for the above sums due him in this
suit.
Certificate accordingly.

(PRAcTICE.)

YOUNG V. BRYAN

et aL

The Circuit Court has junsdiction of a suit brought by the endorsee
of a promissory note, who is a citizen of one State, against the endorser, who is a citizen of a different State, whether a suit could be
brought in that Court by the endorsee, against the miker, or not.
No protest of a pronssory note, or inland bill of exchange, is necessary.

to the Circuit Court of Tennessee.
This was an action of assumpsit, brought in the
Court below, by the defendants in error, citizens of
Pennsylvania) against the plaintiff in error, a citizen
ERROR

