520
1821.
Unifted States

V.
Six Packages
of Goods.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

been-lodged by the 4ppeliants with the clerk of this
Court, within the first six days of the term, according-to the rule.
Mr. Wl eaton, for. the appellants, opposed the motion, upon the ground that no certificate was produced from the clerk of the Court below, stating that
-an,appeal had been taken, according to the rule,
The-COURT denied the motion, but stated that as
the object of the respondents was to have the proceeds of the property in litigation, which had been
sold by order of the Court below, invested in stocks,
such investment might be made by the Court below,
notwithstanding the pendency of the appeal ii this
Court.
Motion denied.a
a Vide new rule of Court of the present term.
XXXII.

.nte,

Rule

(INSTANCE COURT.)

The

UNITED STATES V. SIX PACKAGES OF

GOODS,

Toler, Claimant.
Under the 67th section of the Collection Act of tho 2d of Alarch, 1799,
c. 128., where gogds were entered by an agent of the owner on his
behalf, and the entry included onlv a part of the goods which the

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1821.
packages contained, and the owner subsequently made a further, or
post entry of the residue of the goods, and the packages being
opened several days afterwards and examined by the collector in the United 8tates
V.
presence of two merchants, and their contents found to agree with
Six Packages
the two entries taken together, but to difrer matenally from the
of Goods.
first entry he:d, that the collector was not precluded from making
a seizure of the goods after the second entry, for a variance between
the contents of the packages and the first entry, and that such seizure must be followed by confiscation. uoless it should appear that
such difference proceeded from accident and mistake, and not from
an intention to defraud the revenue.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Southern
District of New-York.
This was a libel of information filed in the Court
below against certain goods imported from London
in the ship Isabella, at the port of New-York, as forfeited under the 67th section of the collection act of
the 2d of March, 1799, c. 128.

The cause was argued by the Attorney- General, march 12 ,.
and Mr. Pinkney, for the United States, and by Mr.
D. B. Ogden and Mr. Wheaton, for the claimant.
Mr. Justice LivINGSTON delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This is a libel under the 67th section of the collection law, passed the 2d of March, 1799.
This section provides, that it shall be lawful for the
collector, naval officer, or other officers of the customs, after entry made of any goods, wares, or merchandize, on suspicion of fraud, to open and examine, in the presence of two or more reputable
merchants, any package or packages thereof, and if,
upon examination, they shall be found to- agree with
VOL. VI.

66

march 141h.

b22

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the entries, the officer making such seizure and exammation, shall cause the same to be repacked, and
delivered to the owner or claimant forthwith, and
V.
SixPackages
the expense of such examination shall be paid by the
of Goo.
said collector or other officer, and allowed in the settlement of their accounts : but if any of the packages
so examined, shall be found to differ in.their contents
from the entry, then the goods, -wares or merchandize contained 'in such package or packages, .shdil be
forfeited : Provided, that the sard forfeiture shall not
be incurred, if it shall be made appear to the satisfaction of the collector and naval officer of the district
.where the same shall happen, if there be a naval officer, and if there be no naval officer, to the satisfacetion of the Collector or of the Court in which a prosecution for the forfeiture shall be had, that such difference arose from -accident or mistake, and not from
an intention to defraud the revenue.
These goods being claimed by Hugh K. Toler, of
the City of New:York, merchant, were condemned
by the District Court of the United States, for the
Southern District of New-York, which sentence being reversed by the Circuit Court for that district, an
appeal from the last sentence has been taken to this
Court.
Beford'we examine the facts of the case, or whether they establish a frs ud, without which the prosecution under this secuoQn cannot be sustained, it will
be necessary to dispose of. a quesuon of law, which
has been, made by the counsel for the.claimant.
It is.conceded on all hands. that on the 3d of November, 1-8.10, the six packages which. azq. libelled
1821.

Uited States

OF THE UNITED STATES.

were entered at the custom-house by Thomas Ash,
on behalf of the claimant, and that the entry covered
only a part of the goods which the packages contamed. That two days after, Toler himself cornpleted the entry of the resid - of the goods which
were in these packages, and ,vhich had not been
previously entered by Ash. Several days after, the
packages were opeped and examined by the collector, in presence of two merchants, and their contents
were found not to differ, but to agree with the two
entries taken together; but to *differvery materially
from the first entry made -by Ash, upon -which the
collector made-a seizure of them. On these facts,
about.which there is no dispilte, it is-denied that the
collector had any right to seize, inasmuch.as, when
the inspection took place, there was no difference
between the goods found, ir The packages, and those
mentioned in the invoices. It is said, that the collector, if he suspected a fraud, ought to have made a
seizure before the second entry, in which case the
difference which would have existed between the
goods on which a -duty was secured, and those in the
packages, would have justified such an act, but that
by waiting until a second entry was made, the fraud,
if any committed), was purged. In support of this
position, it is said, that the collection law provides for
a post entry of this kind, and that the very oath
which is taken when an entry is made, imposes on
the party who m~ikes it, the duty, in case he shall afterwards discover any other goods in a package than
those first entered by him, of immediately informing
the collector, and making a further entry thereof.

f82i.
States
United S

v
SiaPackages
of Goods.

CASES IN THE SVPREME COURT

524
1821.

This provision) and the form of the oath, suppose

Uno States
United

more than that a deficient or defective entry may

V.

Six Packages

of Goods.

be made innocently, and under a mistake, without
any certain knowledge at the time of the contents
of the packages "enttre . For, if the party -making
an entry, knows at the time of' other goods, such
other goods cannot be entered afterwards, and the oath
usual on such occasions cannot be taken, without admitting that a perjury had been committed at the
time of the first entry. The Court is, therefore, of
opinion, that, although the seizure, was not madd until after the second entry, the collector had a right to
seize fbr any variance between the contents of the
packages, and the. first entry, afd that such seizure
will be valid, and must be followed by sentence of
condemnation, unless -it shall turn out that such difference pfoceeded from accident or mistake, and not
from an intention to defraud the revenue. Whether
the case of the claimant be entitled to this favourable
interpretation, the Court will now proceed to inquire.
A great deal of testimony,. which was not produced in the Circuit Court, and which might easily
have been, (as all the witnesses resided in the
City of New-York,) has been taken since the appeal, and it is on this testimony, as well -as on that
which- was there. taken, that the sentence of that
Court must now be reviewed.
It is in proof, and indeed'admitted by the claimant,
that a very imperfect-entry of the goods contained in
these packages was made or, Saturday, the third
day of November, 1810, by Thomas Ash, who had
been -employed by Toler to enter the same; and thnt

OF THE UNITE, D:STATES.

525

the residence of the goodsthere-in contained was not
1821.
entered by the claimant; until the fifth day of the Uie"te
same month. To escape from the consequences of Six.Packagea
V.
the first entries not being complete, and to repel the

imputdtion of its originating in fraud, the plaintiff
has endeavoured to prove-that the letter covering the
invoices of the goods contained in the second entry,
was not received by him when the first entry
was made. To establish this fact, his clerk,
Mr. Crane, has been examined- as a witness, and
admitting that he has told the truth, there would
be some reason to believe, that such were the fact ;
but there are many'circumstances which now appear
in this cause, which compel us to withhold from
Mr. Crane the credit whilch might otherwise.be due
to him, The usual course of business, as testified
to by several very respectable. merchants. stand opposed to his relation,.that invoices of orily -part of
the, goods contained, in those packages, -were-enclosed in a letter to. H. K. Toler & Co., and Tnvoices of
the other goods in- a lette.r to' J K. Jaffray, which
had been forwarded to that gentleman-at Albanxy
It appears from all the testimony, -that if a package,
consigned to one person, contain goods belonging to
different persons, it is customary, and some of the
witnesses say indispensable, to send to the consignee
of the-package, invoices of all the goods which it
contains) or to refer, in the main invoice of the consignee, to the invoice of the other goods, and that
the .withholding such invoices or information, would
be considered as stron evidence of an intention to
defraud the revenuc. Another circumstance which

of Goods.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

526
1821.
Sit

United States
v.
six
ofPaiksge,
Good.

detracts much from, the credit of this witness, is, that
is more than probable, that at the time of this consignment, .a copartnership subsisted between the
claimant and the Jaffrays of London. This appears

not only from an advertisement of a dissolution of
such -copartnership,-which has been published since
the decree of the Circmt Court, in one of the NewYork papers, but from -other testimony in the cause,
and from no contrary proof being furnished by Mi.
Toler. Now, if such partnership really existed,
which cannot well be disbelieved, it is most extraL..linary indeed, that all the invoices of the goods in
that package should not have been sent to the partner residing permanently in the city of New-Yor'k,
but that an'invoice:of part of them should be transmitted.to him, avid of another, and of.the most valuable part,-to a partner who might.or might not .have
reached this country when the Isabella arrived. If
merchants, who must be presumed to know bow to
manage their business, will act in a manner so contrary to.the ;general practice -ofcommerial men, they
must expect, and cannot complain, if suck.-deviation
from established usage create suspicions unfavoura.
ble to the integrity of the particular transaction. It
would have added something.tqthe value of the testitnony of Mr. Crane, if the.name of the-merchant at
Albany, -to wjhose care the letter for Mr;. Jaffray had
been.transmitted,:or if the.lettbr ,itself, with"the-postmaiksi had-been produced,. Therimportance of the
testimofiy of -M. Ash,.as;deliVered _efore'the'Circuit
Court, is much 'weakened by ihat of Judge Van

OF THE UNITED STATE8.

527

1821.
Ness, who has also been examined since the appeal,
for, instead of being simply told at the custom house, United States
V.
he must call again, Six.Packajes
when he asked for a permit, that
•
it appears he stated, on his examination in the Dis- of Goods.
trict Court, that when he applied for a permit on the
3d of November, he was told at the custom. house,
that "I they wished to examine the goods before they
.were delivered ;" and that although he did not see
Mr. Toler until. Monday, he communicated to his
clerk, Mr. Crane%. what had passed, who doubtless
gave the same- iformation to his principal, which
will account for the solicitude which -he discovered
so early on Monday morning to enter- the -goods
which had- been omitted in the entry of Mr. Ash.
There -are other, circumstances in this case, that are
not here noticed, which render -theexplanation. given
by Mr. Toler,,to say the least, extremely quostionable.
The Court cannot dismiss this cause without expressing its surprise, that more than ten years-have
elapsed since the filing of the libel in the District
Court. As all the: witnesses who-.have been examined since the appeal, reside in tho city in which
the cause was tried, they, might, and ought&, to have
been examined in that: Court,. and- it their testimony
had there been reduced to writing, and -used.in the
i;cuirt Court; a final decision- might have been had
many years age, and before the insolvencies which
it is suggested have happened, and have rendered the
ffirther .prosecution' of these proceedings.-of little or
no importance ta the parties,

6.8

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1821.

""o

Brashier

v.

The decree of the Circuit Court is revoked, and
the sentence of condemnation pronounced by the
District Court affirmed.

Gratz.

(CHANCERY.)

BRASHIER V. GRATZ

et al.

The general rule is, that time is not of the essence of a contract ol
sale; and a failure on the part of the .purchaser, or vendor, to perform his contract, on the stipulated day, does not, of itself, deprive
him of his right to a specific performance, when he is able to comply with his part of the engagement.
But circumstances may be so changed, that the.object of the party can
no longer be accomplished, and he cannot be placed in the same si.
tuation as if the contract had been performed in due time. In such
a case, a Court of Equity will leave the parties to their remedy at
law
Part performance will, vnder some circumstances, induce the Court
to relieve.
But where a considerable length of time has elapsed, where the party
demanding a specific performance has failed to perfdrm his part of
the contract, and the demand is made after 'a great change in the
title and the value of the land, and there is a. want of reciprocity in
the obligations of the respective partibs, a Court of Equity will not
interfere.

APPEAL

from the Circult Court of Kentucky.

This cause was argued by Mr. B. Hardino for the
appellant, and by Mr. Sergeant for the respondents.b
a He cited I Fonbl. Eq. 227 9 Pes. 415. 2 P Wns. 243, 4
Bro. Ch. Rep. 329. 469. 391. 1 Ves.jun. 221. 1 Alk. 12.
I Ves.
i Who cited Sugd. Vend. -246. 5 Ves. 720. Note.
jun. 450. 9 Cranch, 456. 8 Cranch, 471.

