OF THE UNITED STATES
1821.
(PRIZE.)

The Nueva
Anna, and

The NUEvA ANNA and LIEBRE. The Spanis
Consul, Claimant..

Liebre.

This Court does not recognise the existence of any lawful Court of
Prize at Galveztown, nor of any Mexican republic or state, with
power to authorize captures in war.

from the District Court of Louisiana.
These were the cases of the cargoes of two Spanish ships, captured and condemned by a pretended
Court of Admiralty at Galveztown, constituted by
Commodore Aury, under the alleged authority of
the Mexican republic. The goods were, after this
condemnation, brought into the port of New-Orleans, and there libelled by the original Spanish
owners in the District Court. That Court decreed
restitution to the original owners, and the captors appealed to this Court.
APPEAL

This cause was argued by Mr. Hopkwnson for
the respondents and libellants, no counsel appearing
for the appellant and captors.
The COURT stated, that it did not recognise the
existence of any Court of Admiralty sitting at Galveztown, with authority to adjudicate on captures,
nor had the Government of the United States hitherto acknowledged the existence of any Mexican republic or state at war with Spain ; so that the Court
could not consider as legal, any acts done under the
VOL. VI.

18

Fib.j

T27t4.

194
1821.

%as

The Col-

lector.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

flag and commission of such republic or state. But,
the record, in this case, stated the capture to have
been made under the flag of Buenos Ayres, it became .necessary to send back the case, in order to
ascertain under what authority it was m fact made.
Sentence reversed, and cause remanded for further proceedings.

The COLmL Oi

Wilmot,. Claimant.

In all prcceedin, a sp..rh on gn appeal, the property follow the
cause into the Circuit Court, and is subject to the dispositien of
that Court. But it does noto'low the cause into the Supreme
Court,-on an appeal to that Court.
After an appeal from the Distrirt-to, the Circuit Court, the former
Court cpn make no order respecting the property, whether itihas
been sold, and the proceeds paid into. Court, or whether it remains
speoifically, of its premeds remain, m the hands of the Marshal.
It is a great irregularity for the Marshal to keep the property or the
proceeds thereof in his own hands, or to distribute the same among
the parties edtitled, without a special order from the Court; but
such an irregularity may be cured by the assent and ratification
of all the parties interested, if there .be no mala Jdes.

the Circuit Court of Maryland.
The factsof this case-were as follow:
In the year 1-807, the schooner Collector and cargo were libelled in the District Court of the district
of Maryland, as forfeited under the act of Congress,
APPEAL from

