514

CASES iN THE:SUPREME COURT

1821.

came on.to be heard at the same time, and were arOn -consideration whereof, it is

ZV' gued .by ,counsel.

V.

that- the decree of the Circuit Court for the District of Pennsylvania in the
ORDERED ald DECREED,

premises, -be-, and the same is hereby rever~ed. And
this Court proceeding to pass such decree as the said
Circuit Court should have passed, it. is farther ORIDEREP and DECREED, that the complainant'sbill, as
to all the matters contained therein, be, and the same
is hereby dismissed', and that:a mandate issue -to the
said Circuit. Court, to dismss the same accordingly,
without costs.

(LOCAL I;AW.)

BoWi9 V. HPOiNDERSON e al.
The third section of the act of Congress, of March 30th, 103, .forthe

relief of insolvent debtors in the Distnct of Cniumbia, does not
create any express or implied exception to the operation of the
statute of limitations, by making the insolvent a trustee for his
-creditors, in -respect to his future property,. or by making any demand, included in the schedule of his debts, a debt of record.
The including of a demand in the schedule of the insolvent's debts, is
sufficient evidence to sustain an issue on a replication of a new promise to the plea of the statute of limitations, if the period of limifation has not elapsed after the date of the schedule.
APPEAL

Columbia.

from the Circuit Court of the District of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

.515

1821.
This suit was instituted by the appellant against
the respondents, on the Chancery side of the Circuit - Bowie
V.
Court of the District of-Columbia, for the county of
Henderson.
in
process
a
giving
law
local
the
Alexandria, under
Chancery in the nature of a foreign attachment.
The bill charged a debt due On bills of exchange,
from the defendant, Henderson, to the complainant ;
that the debtor was an absentee, that he had funds
in the hands of the defendant Auld , and prayed a
condemnation of those fundsi to answer. the complainant's demand. The defendant, Henderson,
pleaded the statute of limitations, non assumpszt 2nfra quznque annos. To. this plea the. complainant
filed the following replication And the said W.
Bowie saiuh, that he ought not to be precludeid from
having' and maintaining his bill aforesaid, by any

thing alleged by the defendbnt, Hendersurf, i"

-his

plea aforesaid, because he sath, that the said A.
Henderson, on the-8th of May, 1806,.in the county
of Alexandria, before N. F.,-one of the j'dges of the.
Distr'vt of Columbia, did take the benefit of the adt
for the relief of insolvent debtors within the'District
of Columbiab and did then and there give a schedule
of his estate, and a list of his.creditors., and in the
said list of his creditors so given in, he) the said Henderson, did state, that the said complainant was a
creditor of his to the.amount of $4,586 39 centswhich said list of creditors so given in, he, the said
Henderson, did state, was entered of record in the
clerk's office of the Court of the county of Alexandria, as by reference to the records of the said Court
will fully arid at large appear, and which said debt

516
1821.

- Bowie
V.
Henderson.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

so given in, is the debt for which the complainant
has instituted his suit aforesaid. And the said complain ant saith, that the moneys and effects which. the
said complainant seeks, in his bill aforesaid, to subject
to the payment of his debt aforesaid, were obtained
and acquired by the said defendant i Henderson., long
subsequent to his taking the oath of insol.vency aforesaid. And the said complainant shith, that as-soon
as he, the said complainanti obtained any knowledge
of the said .defendant, Henderson, havingobtained
the funds aforesaid,. and- within the period of six
months after he obtained a knowledge the-reof, he,
the said complainant, did institute his aforesaid bill
in Chancery, to subject the funds to the -payment of
his said debt, all which, &c. The defendant demutred to this replication, and the Court below, on
hearing, adjudged the demurrer good.
The question in this case turned upon the construction of the third section of the act of Congress,
for the relief of insolvent aebtors within the District
of Columbia, passed March 3d, 1803,.whih is in
these words.
" And be zt further enacted, That upon the petitioning debtor's executing a deed or deeds to the said
trustee, conveying all his property, .real, personal.
and mixed, and all his daims, rights, and credits.
agreeably to the oath or affirmation of the said debtor.
and on delivering all his said property which he
shall have in his possession, together with his books,
papers, and evidences of debts of every kind, to the
said trustee, and the said trustee's certifying the
same to the said judge in vriting, it shall be lawful

r7.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

for the said judge to make an order to the marshal,
jhilor, or keeper of the. prison, in which said debtor
is then confined, commanding that the said' debtor
shall be thenceforth discharged fr6m his imprisonment, and he shall be immediately discharged, and
the said order shall be a sufficient warrant therefor.
Provided, That no person who has'been guilty of a
breach of the laws, and who has been imprisoned for
or on account of the same, shall be discharged from
imprisonment And- prornded likeuwse,'That any
property which the debtor may afterwards acquire,
(except the necessary wearing apparel and bedding
for his family, and his tools, if a mechanic or manufactureri) shall be liable to the.payment of his debts,
any thing herein to the contrary notwithstanding.-)

Sall
]Bowie

V.
Henderson.

This cause was argued by.Mr. Swann and Mr. xarch i2 r.
Jones, for the appellant, and by Mr. Taylor, for the
respondents. The former insisted, that the above section of the insolvent act created an exception to the
general operation. of.the statute of limitations in favour of tlose demands on which the insolvent's person
was discharged under that section. They. argued
that the insolvent, after his discharge, was to he considered, in respect to his future propertyi-as atrustee for his creditors, and that the statute of limitations does not run against a trust. and, also, that
this debt was to -be considered as excepted out of
the statute of limitations, because it was made a
debt of record by being included in the list of creditors under the insolvent act.

CASES IN THE -SUPREME COURT

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opi-

182T.
.

dmon

of the Court, and after stating the case, pro-

Bowi ceeded as-follows:
It is perfectly clear that no such exception is conHenderson.

tained in. the statute of limitations, or. in the act of
Congress concernmg insolvent debtors If it is to be
created at all, it must be - by implication, It is contended in- the first place, that.-the insolvent debtor,
after his discharge, is to be considered in respect to
his futifie, property, as a trustee for his creditors ;
and.. the statute of limitation does hot -run against-a
trusL If he is a trustee, for his creditors, is be
a trustee for those- creditors only who were such
at the tume he obtained the benefit of the act?
or, is .he a- trustee for those who :.tflerwards become his creditors It- will not be pretended that
lie is exclusively a trustee for-the- former. and if lie
be a trustee for the benefit of all his creditors, then
this suit should have been brought for the'benefit of
all, andnot.for the benefit of a single creditor. The
proviso of the section respecting the liability of the
future property of the insolvent, has been supposed
to aid the argument that heis a trustee But we ate
all of a different opinion ;' the previous part of the

section having exempted his person from imprisonment, the object utthe proviso was to make all his
future effects liable, and.to retain all the remedies
against it, in the same manner.as if his person had
npt been "discharged.- The.act, therefore, did not intend to create any new liability, or any new trust.
It is farther' insisted, that this is to be considered
as an exception. out of the statute of limitations, be-

O)F THE UNITED STATES.

1519

1821.
cause it is a . eLt of record. But a debt of record)
in the sense of the common law, is a debt or contract
Spring
created of record , such as a statute staple) or sta- SouthV.Caro
tute merchant, and not one whose previous existence lina Ins.
is only admitted of record. The effect of recording Company.
this debt was merely an admission of its existence,
and not a change of its nature. It would have been
sufficient evidence, if five years had not elapsed after
recording, to have sustained an issue on a replication
of a new promise to the plea of the statute of limitations. But more than five years having elapsed, it
could -have no application in this case. It is the
opinion of the Court, that the demurrer to the replication is sustained, and that judgment ought to be
given for the defendant.
Decree affirmed.

(PRACTICE.)

SPRING et al. v. The SOUTH CAROLINA INS URANCE COMPANY.
In an' equity cause, the res in litigation may be sold by brder oftbe
Cicuit Court, and the proceeds invested in stocks, notwithstanding
the pendency of an appeal to this Cou

Mr. Hunt, for the respondents, moved to docket marc, 5II,.
and dismiss the appeal in this case, which was a suit
in Chancery, commenced in the Circuit Court of
South Carolina, no transcript of the record having

