CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

448
1821.

JUDGMENT.

This cause came on to be heard on

Gibbons
v.

transcript of the record of the Quarterly Session
Court for the Borough of Norfolk, in the Corn-

Ogden.

monwealth of Virginia, and was argued by counsel.

'the

On consideration whereof,

It

IS ADJtUDGED and oR-

that the judgment of the said Quarterly Session Court for the Borough of Norfolk, in this case,
be, and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.
DERED,

(P ACTIce.)

GIBBONS V. OGDEN.

A decree of the highest Court of Equity of a State, affirming the de,
cretal order of an inferior Court of Equity of the same State, refusing to dissolve an injunction granted on the filing of the bill, is not
a final d'cree within the 25th section of the judiciary act of 1789,

c. 20. from which an appeal lies to this Court,

from the Court for the Trial of Impeachments and the Correction of Errors of the State of
New-York.
This was a bill filed by the plaintiff .:below, (Ogden,) against the defendant below, (Gibbons,) in the
Court of Chancery of the State of New-York, for
an injunction to restrain the defendant from navigating certain steam boats on the waters of the State
of New-York, lying between Elizabethtown, in the
State of New-Jersey, and the City of New-York:
APPEAL

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the exclusive navigation of which with steam boats
had been granted, by the legislature of New-York,
to Livingston and Fulton, under whom .the plaintiff
below claimed as assignee. On this bill an injunction was granted by the Chancellor, and on the
coming in of the answer, which set up a right to navigate with steam boats between the City of NewYork and Elizabethtown, under a license to carry
on the coasting trade, granted under the laws of the
United States, the defendant below moved to dissolve
the injunction, which motion was denied by the
Chancellor. The defendant below appeafed to the
Court for the Trial of Impeachments and the Correction of Errors, the decretal order, refusing to
dissolve the injunction, was affirmed by that Court;
and from this last order the defendant below appealed to this Court, upon the ground, that the case involved a question arising under the constitution,
laws, and treaties of the United States.

W
1821.
Gibbons

V.

The cause was opened for the appellant, by Mr. Marc& stk.
D. B. Ogden, bat on inspecting the record, it not
appearing that any final decree in the catise, within
the terms of the 25th section of the judiciary act of
1789, c. 20. had been pronounced in the State
Court, the appeal was dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
DECREE.
This cause came on to be heard on
the transcript of the record of the Court for the Trial
of Impeachments and the Correction of Errors, of
VOL V1.

57

CASES IN THE SUPREM[E COURT

40
1821.

the State of New-York.

On inspection whereof, t

that the appeal, in,this cause, bei and.
from
the same is. hereby dismissed, it not appearing
steam Boat the record that there was a final decree in said Court
Company. for the Correction of Errors, &c. from which an ap-

Sullivan
The v.
Fulton

is. ORDERED,

peal was taken.a
a Aide 4 Johns. CW. Rep. 150. and 17 Johns. Rep. A88. where
-the learned reader will find the case reported as decided in the
State Courts.

(PAcTxcE.)

SULLIVAN

et at.

v.

THE

FULTON "STEAM BOAT

CoM-

PANY.

In order to maintain a suit m the Circuit Court, the junsdictionmmus
appear on the record, as if the suit~is between citizens ofdiftrent
States, the citizenship of the respective parties must be set firth.

the Circuit Court for the Southern
District of New-York.
This was a bill in equity, filed in the Court below,
in which Sullivan, one of the plaintiffs, was de
scribed as a citizen of Massachusetts, and others of
the plaintiffs, as citizens of Connecticut and Vermont, and the defendants were described as a corporate body incorporated by the legislature of the
APPEAL from

