4715

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the parties to this suit, can give the appellant any
claim on the respondent. At any rate, the plea
having denied all the allegations which were relied
on as grounds for removing the bar which it was antiipated would be interposed to the appellant's bill,
and all the matters stated in the plea, on which issue
was taken, having been fully proved, the Court is of
opinion, that the decree of the Circuit Court must
be affirmed, with costs.

i8ai.
Bartle

Y.
Coleman.

Decree affirmed.a
a Vide 1 Mtason's Rep. 515.

(LOCAL LAw.
BARTLE V

S. C.

PnACTICE.)
COLEMAN.

Under the act of Assembly of Virginia, the defendant may. enter special bail, and defend the suit at any time before the entering up of
judgment upon a writ of inquiry executed, and the appearance -of
the defendant, or the entry of special bail, before such judgment,
discharges the appearance bail.
If the defendant does not appear, or give special bail, the appearance
bail may defend the suit, and is liable to the same judgment as the
defendant would have been liable to; but the defendant cannot appear and consent to a reference, the report and judgment on which
is to bind the appearance bail as well as himself. Such a joint judg'ment is erroneous, and will be reversed as to both.

THIS

cause was argued by Mr. Swann, for the ma

476

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1821.
V.

Coleman.
M&0h.

plaintiff in errora and by Mr. Jones, and Mr. Taylor,
for the defendant m error.
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to a judgment rendered
by-the Circuit Court for the.District of Columbia
anud county of Alexandria, against Andrew Bartle
and Samuel Bartle, on a writ issued by George
Coleman against Andrew Bartle, on the service of
which, Samuel Bartle became bail for his appearance. The defendant in the Court below not having entered his appearance, a conditional judgment
was entered at the rules *held in the clerk's office,
against the defendant and his appearance bail. This
being an action on the case, the judgment at the
rules was for no specific sum, but for the damages
which the plaintiff in that suit has sustained, which
damages are to be inquired into, and ascertained by
a jury. After this writ of inquiry shall be executed,
and not till then, a final judgment for the damages
assessed by the jury is rendered by the Court. In
the mean time, the cause stands on the Court docket
for trial.
The act of Assembly respecting this subject is in
these words: "And every judgment entered in the
office against a defendant and bail, or against a dea. He cited Dunlop v. Laporte, I Hen. ,&
.Mun. 22. Gray v.
Hines, 4 Hen. 4. Mun. 437. Fisher v. Riddle, I Hen. 4- Alun.
329.
b They cited Holdup v. Otway, 2"W1'ms. ,aund. 106. and the
cases there cited. Gould v. Hammernley, 4 Taunt. 148.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

47

1821.
fendant and sheriff, shall be set aside, if the defend'
ant at the succeeding Court shall be allowed to apv.
pear without bail, put in good bail, being ruled so to
Coleman.
plead
shall
and
custody,
in
himself
surrender
or
do,
to -issue immediately." " If the defendant shall fail
to appear, or shall not give special bail, being ruled
thereto by the Court, the bail for appearance may defend'the suit, and shall be subject to the same judg.
ment and recovery as the defendant might or would
be subject to, if he had appeared and given special
bail."
The Courts of Virginia have never construed this
act strictly as to-time. Although the absolute right
given to the defendant to appear and set aside the
judgment rendered in the office, is limited to "the
succeeding Court," he has always been allowed to
appear, and set it -aside, at any time before it became
final. In all actions which sound in damages, the
judgment cannot become final, until the damages
shall be ascertained for which it is to be rendered,
In other respects, too, this law whidh authorizes a
judgment against the appearance, or common bail,
without the service of process on him, has been construed with great liberality The cases which have
been cited, show that the decisions in the Court of
Appeals of Virinia, have settled principles which
seem to decide this case. It has not only been determined that the defeudat may enter special hail, and
defend the suit ar any time before a final judgment,
but also that if he appears and pleads, without giving special bail, or appears and confesses judgment.
the appearance bail is discharged.

478

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

It is also well known to be the settled practice of
Virginia, if special bail be given, to discharge the apBartle
a. pearance bail, although the defendant should not appear, but the judgment should become final, either on
his default, or on the execution of a writ of inquiry.
It is then settled, that .the appearance of the defendant; or the entry of special bail, before final
judgment, discharges the appearance bail.
Let these principles be applied to the case before
the Court. While the writ of inquiry was depending, we find this entry on the record. " In the case
of George Coleman, plaintiff, and Andrew Bartle,
defendant; and. Andrew BaTtle, plaintiff, and George
Coleman, defendant, by consent of parties this case
is referred to Joseph Deane," &c.
Could this rule be made without consent P Or
could this consent be given without the appearance
of the party, by himself or his attorney P Both these
questions must be answered in the negative. What
party, then, did appear and give this consent PWas it
Andrew Bartle, the defendant in the cause, who is
named asthe party, or was it Samuel Bartle, his appearance bail, who is not named P In addition to the
omission of the name of Samuel Bartle, an omission
which could not have been made had he actually appeared, ind been a party to the rule, it is to be observed that -he had no power to consent to it. The
law allows him to defend the suit, but does not allow
him to refer it to arbitrators. We do not hazard
much in.saying, that no Court would or ought to permit such a rule as this to be made, without the consent of the detendant given in person, or by his at1821.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

torney. But were it even supposed to be in the
power of Samuel Bartle to refer the suit of Coleman against Andrew Bartle, he could not refer that
of Andrew Bartle against Coleman, and this suit
also is embraced in the same rule.
It is then apparent, that it is Andrew Bartle who
consented to this rule.
It has been contended, that the consent of Samuel
Bartle must also be implied. We do not think so.
It is reasonable to suppose that his name would have
appeared, had he been a party to the rule. But it
was not necessary that he should be a party to it.
Andrew Bartle was himself competent to make this
reference, and the appearance bail never comes into
Court, unless it be to defend the suit in consequence
of the non-appearance of the defendant. But, were
it even true that the consent of Samuel Bartle could
be inferred, it would, nevertheless, be also true, that
Andrew Bartle appeared, by the admission of the
plaintiff, and such appearance, according to the decisioas in Virginia, discharges his bail.
In the mode pursued by the clerk, in makig his entry,. the usual form of saying " this day
came the parties," &c. is not pursued. But this is
immaterial, because the parties perform an act in
Court, which could not be performed without appearng; they consent to a rule which implies appearance, and the form of the .entty cannot affect its substance. Were it otherwise, the appearance of the defendant is entered in the usual
form before final judgment. On the return of the

479
1821.
Bartle

V.
Coleman.

480

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

award, the following entry is made: "-And now
' Bartle 'here, &c. at this day, &c. came, as well the plamntiff aforesaid, by his said attorney, as the said defendV.
Coleman. ant, by Thomas Swan, his attorney. and the follow1821.

ing award was returned," &c. The award is then
recited, which shows, that the arbitrators proceeded
on notice to Andrew Bartle only, and the judgment
of the Court is immediately rendered for the amount
of the award against "9Andrew Bartle, the defendant,
and Samuel Bartle, the security for his appearance."
Yet the appearance of Andrew Bartle is formally
entered on the record previous to this judgment. If,
instead of entering the judgment in pursuance of the
award, it had been entered in pursuance of the confession of the defendant, this would have been the
very case cited from 1 Hen. 4 Munf. 329. And
what distinction can be taken between this case
and that ? The counsel for the defendant in error
says, that a judgment by confession is a different
judgment from that entered in the office, and, therefore, must be a substitute for it received by consent
of the plaintiff. And is not this also a different
judgment from that rendered in the office P And is
it not entered at the instance of the plaintiff ;
Were it necessary to pursue this argument further,
we should all be of opinion, that judgment could not
be rendered against the appearance bail on this
award, and without executing the writ of inquiry,
unless by his consent. But as we are of opinion,
that the appearance of the defendant has discharged
his bail, it is unnecessary to pursue the subject

OF THE UNITED STATES.

farther. The judgment against Samuel Bartle
is erroneous, and as it is joint, it must be reversed
against botb.
Judgment reversed.

(C3L4NCERY.)

PREVOST Y. GRATZ

et aL.

GRATZ et aL. v. PREVoST.
To eitablish the exjstence of a trust, the onus probandi lies on the
party who alleges it.
In general, length of time is no bar to a trust clearly established to
have once existed, and where fraud is imputed and proved, length
of time ought not to exclude relief.
But as length of time necessarily obscures all human evidence, and
deprives parties of the means of ascertaining the nature of the original transactions, it operates, by way of preAumption, in Favour of
innocence, and against imputation of fraud;
The lapse of forty years, and the death of all the original parties.
deelned sufficient to presume the~discharge and extinguishment of a
trust, proved once to have existed by strong circumstances; by
analogy to the rule of law, which after a lapse of time presumes-the
payment of a debt, surrender of a-deed, and extinguishment of a
trust, where circumstances require it.

APPEAL from the Citcuit Court of Pennsylvania.
This was a bill in Chancery, filed in the Court
below, by the plaintiff George W. Prevost, as adminisfrator de boniis non, with the will annexed, of
VOL. VI.

61

481
1821.
Prevost

V.

Gratz.

