CASES IN THE SUPREM-E COUVRT

,aai.

,Colns
Virgiia.

of the cause, or in the rights of the parties. It would
seem reasonable, therefore, that the suit should proceed, and not be dismissed or abated. -In
the absence of all authority which binds the Court to a
different course, we are disposed to adopt this doctrine, and shall promulgate a general rule on the
subject.
Rule accordingly.

(CONSTiTUTInAL LAw.)

COHENS V. VIRGINIA.
Thia Court has, constitutionally, appellate jurisdiction under the judi.cary act of 1789, c. 20. s. 25. from the -final judgment or decree of
the highest Court of law or equity of a State, having juiisdiction of
the ,ubject matter of the suit, where is drawn in question the validity of a treaty, or statute of, or an authority exercised under, the
United'States, and the decision is against their validity; or where is
drawn in question the validity of a statute of, .or an authority exercised under any State, on the ground of their beingrepugnant to the
constitution, treaties, or laws of the United States, and the decision
is. in fayour of such, their validity; or of the constitution, or of a
-treaty, or statute of, or commission held under the United States,
and the decision is against the title, right, privilege, or exemption,
specially set up or claimed, by either party. under such clause of
the constitution, treaty, statute, or commission.
Iris no ob
ntio
to the exercise of this appellate jurisdiction, that one
of the parties is a State, and the other a citizen of that State.

a Vide new order of Court of the present term. Ante, Rule
XXXII.

2W

OF THE U'NITED STATES.
The act of Congress of the4th of May, 1812, entitled, "an act further
to amend the charter of the city of Washington," which provides,
(a. 6.) that the Corporation of the city shall be empowered, for certamL purposes, and under certain restrictions, to authorize the drawCorporation to
ing of lotteries, does not extend to authorze the
force the sale of the tickets in such lottery, in States where such
sale maybe prohibited by the $tate laws.

1821.
%
Cohen&
V.

THIS was a writ of error to the quarterly Session
Court for the. borough of Norfolk, in the:State of
Virginia, under the 26th section of the judiciary act
of 1789, c. 20. it being the highest Court of law or
equity of that State having jurisdiction Uf the case.
Pleas at the Court House.f Norfolk borough;'before
the Mayor, Recorder, and Aldermen of the said
borough, on Saturday,the second day of Sepember,
one thousand eight hundred and twenty, and w
theforty-fifK year of the Commonwealth.
Be it remembered, that heretofore, to wit: At a
Quarterly Session Court, held the twenty-sixth .day
of June, one thousand eight. hundred and twenty,
the .grand jury, duly summoned and impaiaelled for
the said borough of Norfolk, and sworn and charged
according to law, made a presentment in these
words We present P. J. and M. J. Cohen, for 'Vending
and selling two halves and four quarter lottery tickets of the National Lottery, to be drawn at Washington, to William H. Jennings, at their office at the
corner of MaxwelPs wharf, contrary to the act thus
made and provided in that case,-since January, 1820.
On the Alformation of William H. Jennings.
VOL. VT.

34

t

266

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.

*
Cohens
V.

Virginia.

i'orma iou.

Whereupon the regular process of law was awarded against the said defendants, to answer the said
presentment, returnable to the next succeeding term,
which was duly returned by the Sergeant of the borough of Norfolk-" Executed."
And at another Quarterly Session Court, held- for
the said borough of Norfolk, the twenty-ninth day
of August, one thousand eight hundred and twenty,
came, as well the attorney prosecuting for the Commonwealth,.in this.Court, as the defendants, by.their
attorney, and on the motion of the said attorney,
leave is given by the Court to filie an informantion
against the defendants on the presentment aforesaid.,
which was accordingly filed, and is in these words:
Norfolk borQugh, to wit Be it remembered, that
James Nimmo, attorney for the Commonwealth of
Virginia, in the Court of the said borough of .Norfolk, cometh into Court, in his proper person, and
with leave of the Court, giveth the said Court to
understand and be informed, that by an act of the
,General Assembly of the said Cbmmonwealth of
Virginia, entitled, "An act to yeduce into one, the
several acts, and parts of aits,'to prevent unlawful
gaming," It is, among other things, enacted and de.
dared, that no person or persons shall buy, or spll,
within the said. Commonwealth, any lottery, or-part
or share of a lottery ticket, except in such lottery
o-lotteres as may be authorized by, the laws thereof:
and the said James Nimmo,. as attorney aforesaid,
further glveth the Court to -understand and be infQrmed, that P J. and M. J. Cohen, traders and
partners, late of the parish of Elizabeth River, and

OF THE UNITED STATES.

20

1s2.
borough of Norfolk aforesaid, being evil disposed
persons, and totally regardless of the laws and sta- Cohem
v.
tutes:of the said Commonwealth, since the first day
v4MM
thousand
one
Lord
our
of
year
the
of January, in
eight hundred and twenty, that is to say, on the first
'day of June, in that year, and within the said Commonwealth of Virginia, to wit, at the parish of Elizabeth River, in the said borough of Norfolk, and
within the jurisdiction of this Court, did then and
there unlawfully vend, sell, and deliver to a certain
William H. Jennings, two half lottery tickets, and
four quarter lottery tickets, of the National Lottery,.
to be drawn in the City of Washington, that being
a lottery not authorized by the :laws of this Commonwealth, to the evil example of all other persons,
in the like case offending, and against the form of
the act of the- General Assembly, in that case made
and provided.
JAMES NiMMo,for the Commonwealth.

And at tbs same Quarterly Session Court, continued by adjournment, and held for the.sazd borough of Norfolk, the second day of September,
eighteen hundred and twenty, came, -as well the attorney prosecuting for the Commonwealth, in this
Court, as the defendants, by their attorney, and the
said defendants, for plea, say, that they are not Not
guilty in manner and form, as in the information
against them is alleged, and of this they put them.elves upon the country. and the attorney for the
Commonwealth doth the same; whereupon a case

GaUt

CASES IN THE SUPREME' COURT
1si.
Cohens
V.

Virginia.

was agreed by them to be argued in lieu of aspecial
verdict, and iAin these words"
Commorwealth against Cohens-case agreed.

In this case, the following statement is admitted
and agreed by the parties in lieu of a special verdict:
that the defendants, on the first day of June, in the
year of our Lord eighteen hundred and twenty.,
within the borough of Norfolk, in the Commonwealth of Virginias sold to William H. Jennings a
lottery ticket, in the lottery called, and denominated,
the National Lottery, to be drawn in the City of
Washington, within the Iistrict of Columbia.
That the General Assembly of the State of Virgira enacted a statute, or act of Assembly, which
went into operation on the first day of January, in
the year of our Lord 1820, and which is still umrepealed, in the words following
Prohibitio of
No person, in order to raise money for himself or
Lotterics, &c.
another, shall, publicly or privately, put up a lottery
to be drawn or adventured for, or any prize or thing
to be raffled or played for" And whooever shall offend
herein, shall forfeit the whole sum of money proposed to be raised by such lottery, raffling or playing to be recovered by action of debt, in the name
of any one who shall sue for the same, or by indictment or information in the name of the commonwealth, in either case, for the use and benefit of the
literary fund. Nor shall any person or persons "iy,
or sell, within this Commonwealth, any lottery ticket, or part or share of a lottery ticket, except in such
lottery or lotteries as may be authorized by the laws
Case agreed.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

thereof , and any person or persons offending herein,
shall forfeit and pay, for every such offi aee, the sum
of one. hundred dollars, to be iecovered and appropriated in mauner last aforesaid.

269
1821.

on
V.
Virma.

That the Congress of the United States enacted P
statute on the third day of May, in the year of our
Lord 1802, entitled, An Act, &c. in the words and
.1gures following:
An Act to wcorporate'the inhabitantsof the City of
Washington, in the District of Columbia.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America, in Congress assembled, That the inhabitants of the City of

Washington
corporated.

Washington be constituted a body politic and corpo-

rate, by the name of a Mayor and Council of the City
of Washington, and by their corporate name, may
sue and be sued, implead and be inipleaded, grant,
receive, and do all other acts as natural persons, and
may purchase and hold real, personal and mixed property, or dispose of the same for the benefit of the
said city, and may have and use a city seal, which
may be altered at pleasure. The City of Washington shall be divided into three divisions or wards, as
now divided by the Levy Court for the county, for the
purposes of assessment, but the number may be increased hereafter, as in the wisdom-of the City Council shall seem most conducive to the general interest
and convenience.
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That the Counshall consist of twelve
cil of the City of Washington

City Counci-

-

270

CASES IN TIHE SUPREME COURT

members, residents of the city, and upwards of twento be divided into two chamb
ty-five years of age,
z
Cobiens
v.
bers, the first chamber to consist of seven memirginia. bers, and the second chamber of five members, the
1821.

second chamber to be chosen from the whole number of councillors, elected by their joint ballot. The
City Council to be elected annually by ballot, in a
general ticket, by the free white male inhabitants of
full age, who have resided twelve months in the city,
and paid taxes therein the year preceding the eleclions being held thejustices of the county of Washington, resident in the city, or any three of them, to
preside as judges of election, with such associates as
the council may from time to time appoint.
when
See. 3. And be it further enacted, That the first
Wectionq
held.
election of members of the City Council, shall be
held' on the first Monday in June next, and in every
year afterwards, at such place in .each ward as the
judges of the election may prescribe.
That the~ polls
dode oleooSec.
eatd
ducti-g it.
c;44. And
np be itt further enacted,
shall be kept'open from eight o'clock in the morning,
till seven o'clock in the evening, and no longer, for
the reception of ballots. On the closing of the poll,
the judges shall close and seal their ballot boxes, and
meet on the day following, in the presence of the
Marshal of the District, on the first election, and the
council afterwards, when the seals shall be broken,
and the votes counted within three days after such
election, they shall give notice to the persons having
the greatest number of legal votes, that they are duly
elected, and fihall wake their return to.the Mayor of
the city.

OF THE- UNITED -STATES.

Sec. 5. And be. it. further enacted, That .the 1821.
1layor of the city shall be appointed, annually by -the Cohons
•President of the United States.; he-must:be-a citizen
V.
of the United States, and a resident.of the city prior Maybrt! t e
~City;
whan apto his appointment.
Pited, &p.
See. 6.. And be.it further enacted, That .the .City civ co11,it,
City Hall, or
Council shall hold their sessions in the
until silich building. is ere cted, in such place as the
Mayor may p~rovide.for that purpose, on the second
Monday in June, jn each year, .but the' Mayor may
-convenie them oftener, if the public gpod require
their.deliberations; three fourths of the members of
each Council;- may be a quorum to-do business, but
a smaller number may adjourn from day to .day.
they may compel -the attendance of absent members
in such manner, .and under such penaltieS, as they
may, by ordinance,.provide they shall. appoint their
respective Pxesidents, .who shall preside during their
sessions, and. phall yote -ouall -questions where there
is an equal division., they shall settle their rules.of.
proceedings, appoint. their, own officers, .regulate
their respective fees, and remove ther at pleasure.
they shall judge oftJi e elections) returns, and qualifi-.
catioqs of.their ownmembers, and.may, with the concurrence .of three-fourths of the whole, expel any
member.for disorderly behaviour or malconduct in.
offices but not a second time for the same offence:
they shall keep a journal. of their .proceedings- and'
enter- the. yeas and nays on any question, resolve or
ordinance, at the request, of any member, and their
deliberations shall be public. The -Mayor shall appdintto all offices. under the Corporation. All ordi-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

?.72

nances or acts passed by the. City Council, shall be
to the Mayor for his approbation, and when apCohens
V.
proved by him, shall then be obligatory as such. But,
Virgma. if the said Mayor shall not approve of such ordinance or act, he shall return the same within five
days, with his reasons in writing therefor, and if
three-fourths of both branches Jf the City Council,
on reconsideration thereof, approve of the same, it
shall be in force in like manner as if he had approved
it, unless the City Council, by their adjournment,
prevent its return.
Powers
of
the
Sec. 7. And be it further enacted, That the CorCorporation
prescribed.
poration aforesaid shall have full power and authority
to pass all by-laws and ordinances to prevent and
remove nuisances , to prevent the introduction of
contagious diseases within the City, to establish
night watches or patroles, and erect lhmps , to regulate the stationing, anchorage, and mooring of vessels , to provide for licensing and regulating auctions, retailers of liquors, hackney carriages, waggons,
carts and drays, and pawn-brokers within the city,
to restrain or prohibit gambling, and to provide tor
licensing, regulating, or restraining theatrical or
other public amusements within the City, to regulate and establish markets, to erect and repair
bridges, to keep in repair all necessary streets, avenues, drains and sewers, and to pass regulations necessary for the preservation of the same, agreeably
to the plan of the said City ; to provide for the safe
keeping -of the standard of weights and measures
fxed by Congress, and for the regulation of all
weights and measures used. in the City ; to provide
1821.

Ssent

OF THE UNITED STATES.

273

1821.
for the licensing and regulating the sweepiing of
"jh'e
chimneys, and fixing the rates thereof to establish
V.
and regulate fire wards and fire companies, to reguthat are to be
late and establish the size of bricks
made and used in the City ; to sink wells, and erect
and repair pumps in the streets,, to impose and appropriate fines, penalties and forfeitures for breach
of their ordinances; 'to lay and collect taxes, to
enact by-laws for the prevention and extinguishment
of fires ; and to pass all ordinances necessary to
give effect and operation to all the powers vested in
the Cor-, oration of the City of Washington: Provided, That the by-laws, or ordinances of the said
Corporation, shall be in no wise obligatory upon the
persons of non-residents of the said City, unless in
cases of intentional violation of the by-laws or ordinances previously promulgated. All the fines, penalties and'forfeitures imposed' by the Corporation
of the City of Washington, if not exceeding.twenty
dollars, shall-be recovered before a single magistrate,
as small debts are by law recoverable ; and if such
flkes, penalties and forfeitures, exceed the sum of
twenty dollars, the same shall be recovered by actioli
of debt, in the District Court of Columbia, for the
County of Washington, in the name of the Corporation, and for the use of the City of Washington.
See. 8. And be it further enacted, That 'the per- Taxesmwecl.
imposed lcd.
son or persons appointed to collect any tax
in virtue of the powers granted by this Act, shall have
authority to collect the same, by distress and sale of
the goods and chattels of the person chargeable
therewith; no sale shall be made, unless ten days
VOL. VL

35

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

274

previous notice thereof be given, no law -shall be
Cohens Spassed by the City Council subjecting, vacant or un,
V. improved city lots, or parts of lots, to be sold for,
1821.

Virginia.

taxes.

See. 9. And be it further enacted, That the City
vide fopo.
poor, &c.
Council shall provide for the support of the poor, inRate of tax.

firm and diseased of the City.
Sec. 10. Provided always, and be it further enacted, That no tax shall be imposed by the City. Council on real property in the said City, at any higher
rate than three quarters of one per centum, on the
assessment valuation of such property.
Sec. 11. And be it further enacted, That this Act
shall be in force for two years from the passing
thereof, and from thence to the end of the next session of Congress thereafter, and no longer.
And another act, on the 2.3d day of February,
1804, entitled " An Act supplementary to an Act,
entitled, an Act to incorporate the inhabitants of the
City of Washington, in the District of Columbia."
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America, in Congress assembled,'That the Act, entitled, .an Act to-incorporate the inhabitants of the City of Washington,
in the District of Columbia, except so much of the
same as is consistent with the provisions of this Act,
be, and the same is hereby continued in. force, for
and during the term of fifteen years from the end of
the next session of Congress.
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That the Council of the City of Washington, from and after the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

275

period for which the members of the present Coun1s21.
cil have been elected, shall consist of two chambers, Cohens
'
each of which shall be composed of nine members,
v.
Virginia.
the
to
according
ballots,
distinct
by
chosen
to be
directio's of the Act to which this is a supplement,
a majority of each chamber shall constitute a quorum to do business. In case vacancies shall occur
in the Council, the chamber in which the same may
happen, shall supply the same by an election by ballot, from the three persons next highest on the list to
those elected at the preceding election, and a majority of the whole number of the chamber in which
such vacancy may happen, shall be necessary to
make an election.
See. 3. And be it further enacted, That the
Council shall have power to establish and regulate
the inspection of flour, tobacco, and salted provisions, the gauging of casks and liquors, the storage
of guMpowder, and all naval and military stares, not
the property of the United States, to regulate the
weight and quality of bread, to tax and license hawkers and peddlers, to restrain or prohibit tippling
houses, lotteries, and all kinds of gaming, to superintend the health of the City, to preserve the navigation of the Potomac and Anacostia-rvers adjoining the
City, to erect, repair, and regulate public wharves,
and to deepen docks and basins, to provide for the
establishment and superintendence of public schools,
to license and regulate, exclusively, hackney coaches,
ordinary keepers, retailers and ferries, to provide for
the appointment of inspectors, constables, and such
other officers as may be necessary to execute the

276

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

laws of the Corporation, and to give such compensation to the Mayor of the City as they may deem fit.
Cohens
Sec. 4. And be it further enacted, That the Levy
V.
Virgma. Court of the county of Washington shall not
hereafter possess the power of imposing any tax on the
inhabitants of the City of Washington."
That the Congress of the United States, on the
4th day of May, in the year of our Lord 1812,
enacted another statute, entitled, An Act further to
amend the Charter of the City of Washington.
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Reof
Corporatibn
the afy how
1821.

,W 5o9o presentatives of. the

United

States of America

in Congress assembled, That from and after
the first Monday in June next, the Corporation
of the Cil i of Washington shall be composed of
a Mayor, a Board of Aldermen, and a Board of
Common Council, to be elected by ballot, as hereafter directed, the Board of Aldermen shall consist of eight members, to be elected for two years,
two to be residents of, and chosen from, each ward,
by the qualified voters therein, and the Board of
Common Council shall consist of twelve members,
to be elected for one year, three to be residents of,
and chosen from, each ward, in manner aforesaid:
and each board shall meet at the Council Chamber
on the second Monday in June next, (for the despatch of business,) at ten o'clock in the morning,
and on the same day, and-at the same hour, annually, thereafter. A majority of each board shall be
necessary to form a quorum to do business, but a
less number may adjourn from day to day. The
B~a-d of Aldermen, immediately after they shall

OF THE UNITED STATES.

277

1821.
have assembled in consequence of the first election,
shall divide themselves by lot into two classes; the Cohens
v.
seats of the first class shall be vacated at the expiraVirgma.
class
second
the
of
seats
the
tion of one year, and
shall be vacated at the expiration of two years, so
that one half may be chosen every year. Each
board shall appoint its own President from among
its own members, who shall preside -during the sessions of the board, and shall have a casting vote on

all questions where there is an equal division; pro- Proyiso.

vided such equality shall not have been occasioned
by his previous vote.
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That no person shall be eligible to a seat in the Board of Aldermen or Board of Common Council, unless he shall
be more than twenty-five years of age, a free white
male citizen of the United States, and shall have
been a resident of the City of Washington one whole
year next preceding the day of the election ; and
shall, at the time of his election, be a resident of the
ward for vhich he shall be elected, and possessed of
a freehold estate in the said City of Washington, and
shall have been assessed two months preceding the
day of election. And every free white male citizen
of lawful age, who shall have resided in the City of
Washington for the space of one year next preceding the day of election, and shall be a resident of the
ward in which he shall offer to vote, and who shall
have been assessed on the books of the Corporation,
not less than two months prior to the day of election,
shall be qualified to vote for members to serve in the
said Board of Aldermen and Board of Common

tueet,

Andelectorg.

278
1521.
Cohiens

v.
Virginia.
Present Mavor
to be conttinued
in office, &c.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Council, and no other person whatever shall exercise

the right of suffrage at such election.
Sec. 3. And be it further enacted, That the present Mayor of the City of Washington shall be, and
continue such, until the second Monday i June
next on which day, and on the second Monday in
June annually thereafter, the Mayor of the said City
shall be elected by ballot of the Board of Aldermen
and Board of Common Council, in joint meeting,
and a majority of the votes of all the members of
both boards shall be necessary to a choice, and if
there should be an equality of votes between two
persons after the third ballot, the two houses-shall
determine by lot. He shall, before he enters upon
the duties of his office, take an oath or affirmation
in the presence of both boards, "9lawfully to execute
the duties of his office to the best of his skill and
judgment, without favour or partiality." He shall,

His duties, &c. ex officto, have, and exercise all the powers, autho-

rity, and jurisdiction of a Justice of the Peace, for
the County of Washington, wrthin the said county
He shall nominate, and with the consent of a majority of the members of the Board of Aldermen,
appoint to all offices under the Corporation, (except
the commissioners of elections,) and every such officer shall be removed from office on the concurrent
remonstrance of a majority of the two boards. He
shall see that the laws of the Corporation be duly
executed, and shall report the negligence or misconduct of any officer to the two boards. He shall appoint proper persons to fill up all vacancies duriqg
the recess of the Board of Aldermen, to hold suc]

OF THE UNITED STATES.

appointment until the end of the then ensuing session. He shall have power to convene the two
Boards, when, in his opinion, the good of the com-

munity may require it, and he shall lay before them,

279
1821.
Cohens

Virginia.

from time to time, in writing, such alterations in the
laws of the Corporation as he shall deem necessary
-and .proper, and shall receive for his services annually, a just and reasonable compensation, to be allowed and fixed by the two boards, which shall neither be increased or diminished during the period
for which he shall have been elected. Any person Qualifications
free of Alayor,.&.
shall be eligible to the office of Mayor, who is a
white male citizen of the United States, who-shall
have attained to the age of thirty years, and who
shall be a bonafide owner of a freehold estate in the
said City, and shall have been a resident in the said
City two years immediately preceding his election,
and no other person shall be eligible to the said office. In case of the refusal of any person to accept
the office of Mayor, upon his election thereto, or of
his death, resignation, inability or removal from the
City, the said two boards shall elpct another in his
place, to serve the remainder of the year.
See. 4. And be it further enacted, That the first modes
Timesof elecand
&c.
tions,
and
Aldermen,
of
the
Board
of
members
for
election
Board of Common Council, shall be held on the first
Monday in June next, and on the first Monday
in' June annually thereafter. The first election
to be held by three commissioners to be appointed in each ward by the Mayor of the City, and at
such place in each ward as he may direct; and all
subsequent elections shall be held by a like number

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

280
1821.
Coheus

V.
Virg6ina

of Commissioners, to be appointed m each ward by
the two boards, in joint meeting, which several appointments, except the first, shall be at least ten days
previous to the day of each election. And it shall
be the duty of the Mayor for the first election, and of
the commissioners for all subsequent elections, to
give at least five days public notice of the place in
each ward where such elections are to be held. The
said commissioners shall, before they receive any
ballot, severally take the following oath or affirmation, to be administered by the Mayor of the City, or
any Justice of the Peace for the county of Washington - "I, A. B..do solemnly swear or affirm, (as the
case may be) that I will truly and faithfully receive,
and return the votes of such persons as are by law
entitled to vote for members of the Board of Aldermen, and Board of Common Council, in ward No.-,
according to the best of my judgment and understanding, and that I will not, knowingly, receive or
return the vote of any person who is not legally entitled to the same, so help me God." The polls shall
be opened at ten o'clock in the morning, and be closed at seven o'clock in the evening, of the same day.
Immediately on closing the polls, the commissioners
of each ward, or a majority of them, shall count the
ballots, and make out under their hands and seals a
correct return of the two persons for the first election, and of.the one person for all subsequent elections, having the greatest number of legal votes, together with the number of votes given to each, as
members of the Board of Aldermen and of the
three persons having the greatest number of legal

OF THE UNITED STATES.

votes, together with the number of votes given to
each, as Members of the Board of Common Couneil. And the two persons at the first election, and
the one person at all subsequent elections, having
the greatest number of legal votes for the Board of
Aldermen , and the three persons having the greatest number of legal votes for the Board of Common
Council, shall be duly elected , and in all cases of an
equality of votes, the commissioners shall decide by
lot. The said returns shall be delivered to the Mayor
of the City, on the succeeding day, who shall cause
the same to be published in some news-paper printed
in the city of Washington. A duplicate return, together with a list of the persons who voted at such
election, shall also be made.by the said commissioners, to the Register of the City, on the day succeeding the election, who shall preserve and record the
same, and shall, within two days thereafter, notify
the several persons so returned, of *their election ;
and each board shall judge of the legality of the
elections, returns and qualifications of its own members, and shall supply vacancies in its own body, by
causing elections to be made to fill the same, in the
ward, and for the Board in which such vacancies
shall happen; giving at least five days notice previous
thereto; and each Board shall have full power to
pass all rules necessary and requisite to enable itself
to come to a just decision in cases of a contested
election of its own members" and the several members of each Board shall, before entering upon the
duties of their office, take the following oath or afVor. VI

36

1821.
Cohens

V.
Virgana.

282

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

firmation "I do swear, (or solemnly, sincerely, and
truly affirm and declare, as the case may be,) that I
Cohiens
to the
v.
will faithfully execute the office of
Virginia. best of my knowledge and ability," which oath or affirmation shall be administered by the Mayor, or
some Justice of the Peace, for the county of Washington.
Sec. 5. And be it further enacted, That in
addition to the powers heretofore granted to the
Corporation of the City of Washington, by an act,
entitled, " An Act to incorporate the inhabitants
of the City of Washington, in the District of
Columbia," and an act. entitled, "An Act, supplementary to an act, entitled, an act to incorporate the inhabitants of the City of Washington,
in the District of Columbia," the said Corporation
shall have power to lay taxes on particular wards,
parts, or sections of the City, for their particular local improvements.
That after providing for all objects of a general
,APr- n-t
pendLukres.
nature, the taxes raised on the assessible property in
each ward, shall be expended therein, and in no
other, in regulating, filling up and repairing of
streets and avenues, building of bridges, sinking of
wells, erecting pumps, and keeping them in repair,
in conveying water in pumps, and in the preservation of springs , in erecting and repairing wharves ,
in providing fire engines and other apparatus for the
extinction of fires, and for other local improvements
and purposes, in such manner as the said Board of
support of the Aldermen and Board of Common Council shall proroorto he a gevide, but the sums raised for the support of the poor.
m cha.
1821.

283

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1821.
aged and infirm, shall be a charge on each ward in
two
the
as
taxation,
or
population
to
its
proportion
v.
Boards shall decide. That whenever the propneVirginia.
fronting.
houses,
inhabited
the
of
tors of two thirds
on both sides of a street, ok part of a street, shall by
petition to the two branches, express the desire of improving the same, by laying the kirbstone of the foot
pavement, and lpaving the gutters or carrage way
thereof, or otherwise improving said street, agreeably
to its graduation, the said Corporation shall have
power to cause to be done at any expense, not exceeding two dollars and fifty cents per front foot, of
the lots. fronting on such improved street or part of a
street, and charge the same to the owners of the lots
fronting on said street, or part of a street, in due proportion , and also on a like petition to provide for
erecting lamps for lighting any street or part of a
street, and to defray the expense thereof by a tax on
the proprietors or inhabitants of such houses, in proportion to their rental or valuation, as the two Boards
shall decide.
Sec. 6. And be it further enacted, That the said Powersof the
'

Corporation shall have full power ant authority to
erect and establish hospitals or pest houses, work
houses, houses of correction, penitentiary, and other
public buildings for the use of the City, -and to lay
and collect taxes for the defraying the expenses thereof, to regulate party and other fences, and to determine by whom the same shall be made and kept-in
-repair , to lay open streets, avenues, lanes and alleys, and to regulate or prohibit all inclbsures thereof,
and to occupy and improve for public purposes, by

Corporation.

284

CASES IN- THE SUPREME COURT

1821.
Conens

v.

Virginia.

and with the consent of the President of the United
SStates, any part of the public and open spaces or
squares in said city, not interfering with any private rihts , to regulate the measurement of, and
weight, by which all articles brought into the city
for sale shall be disposed of, to provide for the appointment of appraisers, and measurers of builders'
work and materials, and also of wood, coal, grain
and lumber, to restrain and prohibit the nightly
and other disorderly meetings of slaves, free negroes
and mulattoes, and to punish such slaves by whipping, not exceeding forty stripes, or by imprisonment
not exceeding six calendar months, for any one offence, and to punish such free negroes and mulattoes for such offences, by fixed penalties, not exceeding twenty dollars for any one offence, and in case
of inability of any such free negro or mulatto to pay
and satisfy any such penalty and costs thereon, to
cause such free negro or mulatto to be confined to labour for such reasonable time, not exceeding six calendar months, for any one offence, as may .bedeemed equivalent to such penalty and costs, to cause all
vagrants, idle or disorderly persons, all persons of
evil life or ill fame, and all such as have no visible
meqns of support, or are likely to become chargeable to the City as paupers, or are found begging'or
drunk in or about the streets, or loitering in or about
tippling houses, or who can show no reasonable
cause of business or employment in the City, and all
suspicious persons, and all .who have no fixed place
of residence, or cannot give a good account of themselves, all eves-droppers and night walkers, all who

9-85

OF THE UNITED STATES.

are guilty of open profanity, or grossly indecent language or behaviour publicly in the streets, all public
prostitutes,. and such as lead a notoriously- lewd or
lascivious course of life, and all such as keep public

1821.
Ce
cohens

V.
Vi

a.

gaming tables, or gaming houses, to give security
for their good behaviour for a reasonable time, and to
indemnify the City against any charge for their support, and in case. of their refusal or inability to-give
such security,.o cause them to be confined to labour for a limited, time, not-exceeding one year at a
time, unless such. security should be sooner given.
But if they shall afterwards be found again offending, such security may be again required, and for
want thereof- the like proceedings may again be had,
from time to time, as often as may be necessary, to
prescribe the terms and conditions upon which free
negroes and mulattoes, and others who can- show no
visible means of support, may reside in the City , to
cause tme avenues, streets, lanes and alleys to be
kept clean, and to appoint officers for that purpose.
To authorize the drawing ot lotteries for effecting To autborze
any important improvement in the City; which the Lotteries, &
ordinary funds or revenue thereof will not accomplish. Provided, That the amount to be raised in Proviso.
each year, shall not exceed the sum of ten thousand
dollars- And provided also, that the object for which Pro,,o.
the money is intended to be raised, shall be first submitted to the President of the United States, and
shall be approved of by him. To take care, of, preserve and regulate the several burying grounds within the City , to provide for registering of births,
deaths and marriages, to cause abstracts or minutes

11-86
1821.
Cohens

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

of~all transfers of real property, both freehold and
Sleasehold, to be lodged in the Registry of the City-

V.
Virginia.

Rcmcdy
i case
of a refurn
of

,u,,

bona, &c.

at stated periods, to authorize night watches and

patroles, and the taking up and confining by them,

in the-night time, of all suspected persons, to punish
by law corporally any servant or slave- guilty of a
breach of any of their by-laws or ordinances, unless
the. owner or holder of such servant or slave, shall
pay the fine annexed to the offence , and to pass all
laws which shall be deemed necessary and proper for
carrying into-.execution the foregoing powers, and
all other powers vested in the Corporation, or any of
its officers, eitherby thi act, or any-former act;
-Sec. 7 And be it further enacted, That the Marshal of the District of Columbia shall receive, and
safely keep, within the jail for Washington county,
at the expense of the City, all persons committed
thereto under the sixth section of this act, until other
arrangements be made by the Corporation for the
confinement of offenders, within the provisions of the
said -section, and in all cases where suit shall be
brought before a Justice of the Peace, for the recovery of any fine or penalty arising or incurred -for a
breach of any-by-law or ordinance of the Corporalion, upon a return of " nufla bona" to any fiernfaczas issued against the property of the defendant or
defendants, it shall be the duty of the Clerk of the
Circuit Court for the County of Washington, when
required, to issue a writ of capzas ad satisfactendum
against every such defendant, returnable to the next
Circuit Court for the County of Washington there-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

after, and which shall b- proceeded on as in other
writs of the like kind.

287
i82f.
Cohens

v.
Sec. 8. And be it further enacted, That unimVirginia.
two
which
on
Washington,
proved lots in the City of
Unimprovea
years taxes remain due and unpaid, or so much lotsmaybesold
for the papnent
thereof as may be necessary to pay such taxes, may of taxes, &c.
be sold at public sale for such taxes due thereon-Provided, that public notice be given of the time and Prov.so.
place of sale, by advertising in some newspaper printed in the City of Washington, at least six months,
where the pioperty belongs to persons residing out of
the United States, three months where the property
belongs to persons residing in the United States,
but without the limits of the District of Columbia , and six weeks where the property belongs to
persons residing within the District of Columbia or
City of Washington, in which notice shall be stated
the number of the lot or lots, the number of the
square or squares, the name of the person or persons
to whom the same may have been assessed, and also
the amount of taxes due thereon And provided,
also, that the purchaser shall not be obliged to pay
at the time of such sale, more than the taxes due,
and the expenses of sale, and that, if within two
years from the day of such sale, the proprietor or
proprietors of such lot or lots, or his or their heirs,
representatives, or agents, shall repay to such purchaser the moneys paid fo" the taxes and expenses
as aforesaid, together with ten per centum per annum as interest thereon, or make a tender of the
same, he shall be reinstated in his original right and
tile, but if no such payment or tender be made

2,88

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

within two years next after the said sale, then the
purchaser shall pay the balance of the purchase moCohens
ney of such lot or lots into the City Treasury, where
V.
Virginia. it shall remain subject to the order of the original proprietor or proprietors, his or their heirs, or legal representatives, and the purchaser shall receive a title
in fee simple to the said lot or lots, under the hand
of the Mayor, and seal of the Corporation, which
shall be deemed good and valid in law and equity
See. 9. And be it furthei\enacted, That the said
Style of the
orporation.
Corporation shall, in future, be named and styled,
" The Mhyor, Aldermen, and Common Council of
the City of Washington ;" and that if there shall
have been a non-election or informality of a City
Council, on the first Monday in June last, it shall
not be taken, construed, or adjudged, in any manner,
to have operated as a dissolution of the said Corporation, or to affect any of its rights, privileges, or
laws passed previous to the second Monday in June
last, but the -same are hereby declared to exist in
full force.
Sec. 10. And be it further enacted, That the Corto
Corporation
wards to
cause
be locatedwith poration shall, from time to time, cause the several
1821.

'

a view to election,.

wards of the City to be so located, as to give, as
nearly as may be, an equal number of votes to each
ward, and it shall be the duty of the Register of the
City, or such officer as the Corporation may hereafter appoint, to furnish the commissioners of election
for each ward, on the first Monday in June, annually, previous to the opening of the polls, a list of the
persons having a right to vote, agreeably to the provisions of the second section of this act.

289

OF THE VNITED STATES.

Sec. 11. And be it further enacted, -Thatso much
of any former act as shall be repugnant to the provisions of this act, be, and the same is hereby repealed.

Which statutes are still in force and unrepealed.
That the lottery, denominated the National Lottery,
before mentioned, the ticket of which was sold by
the defendants- as aforesaid, was duly created by the
said Corporation of Washington, and. the drawing
thereof, and the sale of the said ticket, was duly authorized by the said Corporation, for the objects and
purposes, and in the mode directed by the said statute
of the Congress of the United States. If, upon this
case, the Court shall be of opinion, that the acts of
Congress before mentioned were valid. 4nd on the
true construction of these acts the lQttery ticket sold
by, the said defendants as aforesaid, might lawfully
be sold within the State of Virginia, notwithstanding the act or statute of the General Assembly of
Virginia prohibiting such sale, then judgment to be
entered for the defendints. But if the Court.should
be of opinion, that the statute or act of the General
Assembly of the State of Virginia, prohibiting such
sale, is valid, notwithstanding the said acts of Congress, then judgment to be entered, that the defendants are guilty, and that the Commonwealth recover
against them one hundred dollars and costs.

1821.
Cohens

v.

Virginia.
Part ofa former

act repeale.

TArLoR,for defendants.

And thereupon the matters of law arising upon the
said case agreed being argued, it seems to the Court
here, that the law is for the Commonwealth, and
VOL, VI.

37

Jent
the

Court.

of

290

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1821.

V.

Virginia.

for an
Motion
appeal.

that the defendants are guilty in manner and form,
as in the information against them is alleged, and
they do assess their fine to one hundred dollars besides the costs. Therefore, it is considered by the
Court, that the Commonwealth recover against the
said defendants, to the use of the President and Directors of the Literary Fund, one hundred dollars,
the fine by the Court aforesaid, in manner aforesaid
assessed, and the costs of this prosecution , and the
said defendants may be taken, &c.
From which judgment the defendants, by their
to the next Superior Court
counsel, prayed an appeal
'
of law of Norfolk county, which was refused by the
Court, inasmuch as cases of this sort are not subject
to revision b i any other Court of the Common-

Costs,

wealth.

Febmary181h.

Mr. Barbour, for the defendant in error, moved
to dismiss the writ of error in ihis case, and stated
three grounds upon which he should insist that the
Court had not jurisdiction- (1.) Because of the
subject matter of the controversy, without reference
to the parties. (2.) That considering the character
of one of the parties, if the Court could havejurisdiction at all, it must be orzgnal, and not appellate.
(3.) And, finally, that it can take neither original
nor appellate jurisdiction.
1. As to the first point" it is conceded by all, that
the Federal Government is one of limited powers.
This distinguishing trait equally characterises all its
departments, it is with the judicial department only,
that the present incjuiry is connected. It is in the

Commonwealth's costs, $1

50 cents.

OF THE UNITED STATE.

2d section of the 3d article of the constitution, that
we find an enumeration, of the objects to which the
judicial power of the Union extends. That part of it
which relates to the present discussion, .declares, that
"Ithe judicial power shall extend to all cases in law
and equity, arising under this constitution, the laws
of the United. tates, and treaties made, or which shall
&emade, under their authority." It is not.pretended,
that any treaty has any sort of relation to the present case: before, then, this Court can take junsdiction, it. must be shown- that this is a case arising
either under the constitution, or a law of the United
States. I shall endeavoulr to prove, that it does not
belong to either description. These two classes of
cases are"obviously put in contradistinction to each
other, and there will be-no difficulty in showing to
:the Court the difference in their character. The
constitution contains two different kinds of provisions; the one, (if I may use the expression,) self
executed, or capable of self execution; the other,
only executory, and requiring legislative enactment
to give them operation ; thus, the 21 section of the
4th article, which declares, that " the citizens of
each State shall be entitled to all privileges and.m.munities of citizens in the several States ;" the 10th
section of the 1st article, which prohibits any State
from making any thing but gold and silver coin, a
tender in payment of debts; from passing.any law
"impairing the obligation of contracts ;" and thq
prohibition to Congress, in the 9th section, and to
the States in the 10th section of the same article, to
pass Itany bill of attainder, or ex post facto law,"

1821.
Cohens

V.
Virginia.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

292
1821.
Cohieus

V.

Virgina.

are all examples of the self-executed provisions of
the constitution by which, I mean to say, that the
constitution, in these instances, is, per se, operative,
without the. aid of legislation. On the contrary, the
various provisions of-the 8th section of the same article, such, for example, "as the power to establish
an uniform system of naturalization, and uniform
laws on the subject of bankruptcy," are executory
only , that is, without an -act., of legislation, they
have no operative effect..
The cases, then, arising under -the constitution, al.
those which arise under its self-executed provisions ;
and those arising under the laws of -the United
Stat s, are those which occur under some law, passed in virtue of the executory provisions of the con-

stituton. If this idea be correct, then this is not a
case arising under the constitution:,, and it does not
correspond with the other part of the description,
that is, it does not arise under a law of the United
States. In the first place, this Court, in the case of
Hepburn v Elzy'a decided, that the District of Columbia was not a State, within the meaning of the
constitution, and that, therefore, a citizen of that
District could not sustain an action against a citizen
of Virginia, in the Circuit Court of that State. Now,
it would sound curiously, to call a law passed for a
District, not itself exalted to the dignity of a State, a
law of the United States. It would seem more
strange to call a law passed by the Corporation of
Washington, for the local purposes of Washington,
a ,2 Cranch, 445.

OFTHE UNITED STATES.

WS3

1821.
a law of the United States, and yet such is the character of the law under which this case arises , for Cohens
v.
the act of Congress did not itself create the lottery,
but authorized the Corporation of Washingtodi to Virgini.
do it.
As to this sub-legislation, legislative power is a
trust which cannot be transferred. Delegatus non
potest delegare. If .this can be exercised by substitution, other legislative powers can also. I would
then inquire, whether in execution of the power "to
lay and collect taxes" (Ito declare war," &c. Congress could authorize the State legislatures to do
these things. It is a misnomer, to call by the
name of a law of the United States, any act passed
for the District of Columbia, though enacted by Congress, without calling in the aid of a Corporation.
has been well observed by a former member of
.It
this Court, that every citizen in the United States,
sustains a two-fold political character, one in relation
to the Federal, the other in relation to the State
Governments. To put the proposition in other
words, it may be stated thus a two-fold system of
legislation pervades the United States; the one of
which I will call Federal,the other muncipal. The
first belongs by the constitution of the United States
to Congress, and consists of the powers of war, peace,
commerce, negociation, and those general powers,
which make up our external relations, together with
a few powers of an internal kind, which require uniformity in their operation the second belongs to
the States, and consists of whatever is not included
in the first, embracing particularly every thing con-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

294
1821.

n
Cohens"

v.

Virginia.

nected with the internal police and economy of thb
several States. If this system knew no exception m
its operation, the present question would never have
arisen, for no man would ever dream of calling a
law of Virginia or Maryland, a law of the United
States. But there are certain portions of territory
within the United States, of which the District of
Columbia is one, in which there is no State government to act * in relation to these, Congress, by the
constitution, exercises not only federal, but municipal legislation also and as the whole difficulty in this case has arisen out of this blending
together of two different kinds of legislative power;
so, that difficulty will be removed by a careful attention to the difference in the nature and- character
of these powers, and the extent of their operation
respectively. Whenever a question arises, whether
a law passed bytCongress is a law of the Unitgd
States, we have only to inquire whether it is constitutionally passed in execution of any of the federal
powers if it be, it is properly a law of the United
States, since the federal powers are co-extensive
with the limits of the United States, and this,
though the particular act, may be confined to certain
persons, places or things. Thus, a law establishing
federal Courts in-a particular State, is a law of the
United States, for though its immediate operation
is upon one State, yet it is in execution of a power
co-extensive with the United States , but-if a law,
though passed by Congress, be passed in execution
of a municipal power, as a law to pave the streets of
Washington, then it cannot, in any propriety of lan-

OF tHE UNITED STATES.

296

guage, be called a law of the United States. It is an
1821.
axiom in politics, that legislative power has no ope- Cohens
ration, beyond the territorial limits under its authoT.
rity. I do not now speak of the doctnne of the lex Vi.
loc ; of that comity, by which the different States of
the civilized world, receive the laws of others, as
governing in certain cases of contract, or questions of
a civil nature. I speak of the intrinsic energy of the
legislative power, its operation per se.
If this principle be true, is there any thing in this
case to impair its force P It is admitted on all hands,
that this law was passed in virtue of the power given by the constitution to exercise exclusive legislation, over such district, not exceeding ten miles
square, as should become the seat of the federal government. If we look into the history of the country,
the debates of the Conventions, or the declarations of
the Federalist,we shall alike arrive at the conclusion,
that this power was given in consequence of an incident which had occurred in PhiladelphiA, and the
necessity which thence seemed to result, of Congress deliberating uninterrupted and unawed. The
motive, then, for granting this power, would not lead
to an extension of it , still less will the terms ; for,
they are as restrictive as could by possibility be used.
The district shall not exceed ten miles square, and
as was argued in the Convention of Virginia, may
not exceed one mile' so far from the principle being
impaired then, it is greatly strengthened by the language of this provision. See to what consequences we
should be led by the doctrine, that because this lottery was authorzed by Congress, therefore. the tick-

M9
1821.
Cohens

v.
Virgnia.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

ets might be sold in any State, against its laws, with
nimpunity. The same charter authorizes the Corporation of Washington to grant licenses to auctioneers
and retailers of spirituous liquors now, upon the
doctrines contended for, what will hinder the Corporation from granting licenses to persops, to vend
goods and liquors in Virginia, by a Corporation license, contrary to the laws of Virginia P and thus,
greatly impair the revenue which the State raises
from these licenses, as it is said, that a saleable
quality is of the essence, and constitutes the only
value of a lottery ticket, and that therefore it is not
competent to anv State to abridge the value of that,
which was rightfully created by the Legislature of
the Union Would not the same reasoning justify
the holders of these Corporation licenses, equally to
trample upon the laws of the State, lest, for want
of a market, their merchandise and liquors might not
be sold, and thus the value of their license diminished. These are cases, in which the revenue of a
State would be impaired, as well as the laws for the
protection of its morals. Such is the law of Virginia, prohibiting 'the use of billiard tables. If Congress should authorise licenses to be issued, by the
Corporation of Washington, for using them, and if
this law have an. operation beyond the territorial
limits of the District, then has Virginia lost all power
of regulating the conduct of her own citizens.
The solution of the whole difficulty lies in this:
That though the laws of Congress, when passed in
execution of a federal- power, extend over the Union,
and being laws of the United States, are a part of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the supreme law of the land: yet, a law passed like
the one in question, in execution of the power ofmunicipal legislation, extends only so far, as the power
under which it was passed-that is, to the boundaries of the District, that, therefore, it is no law of
the United States, and consequently not a part of the
supreme law of the land. Nor is there any thing
novel in the idea of two powers residing in the same
body, at the same time, and over the same subject,
of a different kind. The idea is familiarly illustrated by cases of ordinary occurrence in the judiciary.
For the same trespass, an action, or indictment, may
be brought before the same Court, and a different
judgment pronounced, as -one or the other mode is
pursued. So the same Co.ort has frequently common
law and chancery jurisdiction, and pronounces a different judgment in relation to the same subject, as
they are exercising the one or the other jurisdiction.
Let us look further at the consequences of calling
the laws of the District, laws of the United States.
By the sixth article of the Constitution, laws of the
United States made in pursuance of the Constitution, are declared a part of the supreme law of the
land, and the judges in every State shall be bound
thereby, any thing in the laws of their State to the
contrary notwithstanding. If, then, laws of the
District he laws of the United States, within the
meaning of the constiution, it will follow, that they
may be carried to the extent of an interference with
every department of State legislation, and whenever .they shall so interfere, they are to be considered
38
VOL. VI.

1821.
Cohens

V.
Virgi a.

298

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1821.
C
Cohens

v.

Virgia.

of paramount authority Suppose the law of Virginia to declare a deed for land void against a purchaser for valuable consideration, without notice, unless
recorded upon the party's acknowledgment, or the
evidence of three witnesses. Suppose a law of
the District to dispense with record, or to be
satisfied with two witnesses. If one citizen should
convey to another citizen of the District, land lying
in Virginia, in conformity with the District law,
upon the principle now contended for, the party
must recover, in the teeth of the law of Virginia. It
will be admitted, that a law passed, like the one in
question, by one State, might be repelled by another it will, also, be admitted, that if Congress
had, (as some think they have a right to do, but in
which I do not concur,) established here a local legislature, which had passed the law in question, its
effects might have been repelled from the States by
penal sanctions.
But if it be said, that as the dominion over the
District flows from the same source with every other
power possessed by the government of the Union,
as it is executed by the same Congress, as it was
created for the common good, and for universal purposes, that it must be of equal obligation throughout
the Union in its effects, with any power known to
the constitution, from whence it is inferred, that the
law in question can encounter no geographical impediments, but that its march is through the Union.
The answer is, that the federal powers of Congress,
in their execution, encounter no geographical impediments, because no limits, short of the boundaries

299

OF THE UNITED"STATES.

of-the Union, are prescribed to them ; but the legis-does
lative power over- the District, in-its execution,
'
encounter geographical impedimenits, because the

limits of the District are distinctly prescribed, as the

bound of-its extent, and as aninsurmountable barrier
to its further march.
Itmay be said, too, that this case. bears no resemblance to that of, one State repellipg, by penal sanctions, the effects of the laws of another;-'because it
is said, one State is no party to the laws of another ;
Whereas here, the law is its-own law, as being represented in Congress, and thereby contributing to
its passage, and capable in part of effecting its repeal.
It will be seen at once, that this principle would
prove too much, and, therefore, that it cannot be -a
sound one; for if the States are to acquiesce in this
instance, because they are represented in Congress,
and have, therefore, an agency-in making and repealing laws, the same reasoning would justify Congress
in legislating beyond their delegated powers; for
example, prescribing a general course of descents.
It is obvious, that they might contribute as much to
the passage and repeal of this law, as any other, and
yet this ground will not be attempted to be sustained. If, then, they are not bound, because of their
representation in Congress, to acquiesce in the assumption of a power not granted, they are surely as
little bound, 'upon that ground, to permit a power,
confined- to .ten miles square, to extend its operation with the limits of the United States.
If, then, the law in question is not a law of -the
United States, in the sense of that expression in-th-

1821.
Cohenm

v.
viribi.

300

CASES IN THE SUPREME COU.KT

constitution, this is not a case arising under the law
of the United States, and, consequently, the jurisCohens
v.
diction of this Court fails as to the subject matter.
Virginia.
2. My second propostwn is, that if this Court
could entertain jurisdiction of thy case at all, it must
,be orngtnal,and not appellatejurisdiction. This has
reference to the character of one of the parties in the
present contest. The -constitution, of the United
States, after having carved out the whole mass of
jurisdiction which it gives to the federal judiciary,
and enumerated its several objects, proceeds in the
second clause of the second section of the third article to distribute that jurisdiction amongst the several
Courts. To the Supreme Court, it gives original
jurisdiction in two classes of cases, to wit, " in all
cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers
and consuls, and those in which a State shall be a
party ;" in all the other cases to which the judicial
power of the United States extends, it gives the Supreme Court appellate jurisdiction. This Court, in
the case of Marbury v. Madison,a thus expresses itself in relation to this clause of the constitution :
" If Congress remains at liberty to give this Court
appellate jurisdiction, where the constitution has declared their jurisdiction shall be original, and original jurisdiction, where the constitution has declared their jurisdiction shall be appellate, the distribution of jurisdiction made in the constitution, is form
without substance." Again, the Court says, "the
plain import of the words seems to be, that in one
1821.

a 1 Cranch, 174.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

301

181.
class of cases, its jurisdiction is original, not appellate ; in the other, it is appellate, not original ;" and Cohens
V.
accordingly, in that case, which was an application
Virgmia.
to
State,
of
Secretary
for a mandamus to the then
issue commissions to certain Justices of the Peace in
the District of Columbia, the Court, after distinctly
admitting that the parties had a right, yet refused to
grant the mandamus, upon the ground, that it would
be an exercise of original jurisdiction , that not being one of the cases, in which that kind of jurisdictjon was given them by the constitution, it was not
eompetent to Congress to give it.
It appears, then, from the constitution, that where
a State is a party, this Court has original jurisdiction it appears from the opinion of this Court just
quoted, that it excludes appellate jurisdiction. But a
State is a party to the present case , it is a judgment
for a penalty inflicted for the violation of a public
law, the prosecution -commenced by a presentment
of a grand jury, carried on by an information filed
by the attorney for the Commonwealth, and the
judgment rendered in the name of the Commonwealth, and the case has come before this Court by
a writ of error, which is surely appellate jurisdiction.
If, then, when a State is a party, this Court have
original jurisdiction, if the grant of original, exclude
appellate jurisdiction, if, as in this case, a State be
a party, and if the jurisdiction now claimed is clearly appellate, then it follows, as an inevitable conclusion, that in this case this Court cannot take jurisdiction in this way, if they could take it at all.

CASES IN THE SUPREME -COURT

302
1821.
'ture

Cohens

V.
Virgima.

3. My last proposition is, that consideriag the naof this case, and that a State is a party, the jadiciaJ power of the United States does not extend to

the case, and that, therefore, this Court cannot take

jurisdicton at all. This is a criminal case, both
upon-pinciple and authority. A -crime is defined to
be,an act committed or omitted in violation of some
public law commanding or forbidding -it. The offence in this case is one-of commission. A prosecution in the name of a State, by information, as this
has een shown to be, to inflict a punishment upon
this offence, is, therefore, a prosecution for a crimein other words,-a criminal case.. Upon authoRity, too,
penal action$ are called in the, books criminal actions. -But if it be a criminal case, it is conceded,
that the Courts of the United States cannot take
original jurisdiction over it-inasmuch as that right
fully belongs to the Courts .of the State whose laws
have been violated, and that jurisdiction having
once rigitfully attached, they have a right to proceed
tojigdg!nent.. but if they have no original junisdichave shown,- the discussion of the second
qI
piut, that they cannot, have-appellate jurisdiction,
and it consequently follows, that they, cannot have
jurisdiction at all.
I will now endeavo.ur to show- from general principles, in-conuection with the -fairconstrumon-of the
third article of the -.costitution, that without reference. to the-particular-rharacter of the case, whetier as crimina, or. civil, :the judicial. power. of the
1Jnivd States does i&tv vxtend to t,-on account of
the -character of one of the parties, m other words,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1921.
because one of the parties is a State. It is an axiom
in politics, that a sovereign and independent State is Cohens
v.
not liable. to the suit of any individual, nor amenable
viir.a.
All
consentv
own
its
to any judicial powei, without
the States of this Union were sovereign and independent, before they became parties to. the. federal
compact:. hence, I infer, that the judicial power of
the United States would not have extended to theStates, if it bad not been so extended to them, eo
nomme,upon the face of the constitution.. But if it
can reachjjiem only because it is expressly gven in
relation to them, then it can only reach them to the
extent to which it is given. By the original text of
the constitution, the -judicial power of the I1nion.
was extended to the following cases, in which States
were parties, to witr- to controversies between two
or.more- States, betwveena. -State -and titizens of aliState and -foreignStates ,
other-State andbetween. a:
utikens, and subjects. The case of a contest -between a State and one- of its own citizens, is not ineluded in this enumeration ; and, consequently,-if
the principle which I have advanced be a sound one,
theJudicial power of the United States does not extend -to,it; -but the uniform decision of this Court
has been, that if a party claim to be a citizen of another State, it must appear upon tne record. As
that does not appear upon the record in this case, I
am authorized to say, that the plaintiffs in error are
citizens of Virginia then it is the simple case of a
contest between a'State and one of its own citizens,
which does not fall-within -thepale of federal judicial'
power.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUR'

301821.

"

Cohens

v.

Virgina,

It is said, however, that the judicial power is declared by the Constitution, to extend to all cases in
law or equity, arising under this Constitution, the
laws of the United States, and treaties made, &c. ;
and that by reason of the expression "4all cases,"
where the question is once mentioned in the Constitution, the federal judicial power attaches upon the
case on account of the subject matter, without reference to the parties. Notwithstanding the latitude
of this expression, it will be seen upon inquiry, that
in the nature of things, there must be some limitation- imposed upon this provision, which the gentlemen seem to consider unlimited. In the first place
there are questions arising, or which might arise
under the Constitution, which the forms of the Constitution do not submit to judicial cognizance. Suppose, for example, a State were to grant a title of nobility, how could that be brought before a judicial
tribunal, so as to render any effectual judgment If it
were an office of profit, it might, perhaps, be said,
an information in the nature of a quo warranto would
lie, but I ask whether that would lie, in the case
which I have stated, or whether an effectual judgment could be rendered P It is a title, a name which
would still remain, after your judgment had uenounced it as unconstitutional. Where a. quo warranto
lies, in relation to an office, the judgment of ouster
is followed by practical and effectual consequences.
Again, suppose a State should keep troops or ships
of war, in time of peace, or should engage in war,
when neither actually invaded, nor in imminent danger. Here would be alarming violations of the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

505

constitution, assailing too directly the federal pow-

1821.

ers, it would be a most serious question arising

"Cohen$
V.

under the constitution, and yet clearly such a case
tribunal.
as this does not belong to the judicial
If it be said that the opposite counsel mean all
cases in their nature of a judicial character, still I
shall be able to show, that broad as this expression is,
it does not reach all these. It will be remembered
by the Court, that the words are, not all questions,
but all cases. Although, therefore, a queston may
arise, yet before there can be a case, there must be
parties over ywhom the Court can take jurisdiction;
and if there be no such parties, the Court cannot
act upon the subject, though the question may arise,
though it may be clearly of a judicial nature, and
though there may be the clearest violation of the
constitution. By the 11th article of the amendthe
ments to the constitution, it is declared, that ",
judicial power of the United States shall not be construed to extend to any suit in law or equity, commenced or prosecuted against one of the United
States, by citizens of another State, or by citizens or
subjects of any foreign State." Now, suppose that a
State should, without the consent of Congress, lay a
duty on tonnage, which should be paid by a citizen
of another State, suppose, too, that a State should
cause the lands of a British subject to be escheated,
contrary to the ninth article of the treaty of 1794,
upon the ground of alienage; or debts due to a British subject from individuals of the United States, or
money or shares belonging to him, in the public
funds or banks, to be confiscated, contrary to the
VOL. Vi

39

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.
Cohens

V.

Virgina

tenth article of the same treaty, and d'posiftlte proceeds in the public chest It will be agreed on all
hands, that the first is a palpable violation of the federal constitution, and the two others as palpable
violations -of the solemn stipulations of a.treaty ;
and that, therefore, the first presents a -question arising under the-constitution, and the others one arising under a treaty , yet, will any-nian contend that
the citizen of another State, in the first case, or the
subject of the foreign State, in the others, could briag
the offending State before the federal Court, for'the
purpose of redressing their -several-wrongs P It -will
not be pretended, and why not P for the reason
which I have given, that one of the parties in the
cases supposed being a State, and the amendment
referred to having declared, that a State should not
be amenable to the suit of a citizen of another State.
or the subject of a foreign State, although the questions have arisen, the cases have not, that is, the
-Court cannot take judicial cognizance of the questions, because it cannot bring one of the parties interested in litigating it before them. Let us now
suppose, that a State should collect a tonnage duty
from one of its own citizens, could that citrzen
bring his own State before a federal Court P The
words of the 11 th amendment apply to the case of a
citizen of another State, or the citizen or subject of
a foreign-State, but the reason is, that it was only to
them that the privilege of being parties in a controversy with a State, had been extended'in the text of
the constitution. It was only from them, therefore,
that it was necessary to take away that privilege,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

307

but, when from those to whom a privilege had been
18e.
given, that privilege had been taken away, they Cohens
'
surely then occupy the same ground, with those to
V.
Virgihla.
here
speak
.1
When
given.
been
never
whom it had
of the right of these persons under the constitution
of suing a State, I speak of the interpretation of this
Court, particularly in the case of CAzsIolm's exits, v.
Georgza, in which the Court decided, that a State
might be made a party defendant. It was that decasion which produced the 1Ith amendment. If I am
right in the idea, that since that amendment, no matter what the character of the question, this Court
could not take jurisdiction in favour of the citizen of
another State, or subject of a foreign State, against a
State as defendant, it is equally true, that without
the aid of that amendment, it never could take jurisdiction in favour of a citizen against his own State,
because that is.-not one of the cases, in which the federal judicial power extends to States, and .because
in. this case, as in the others, although a qiestwn.has.
arisen under the constitution, &c. a case has not arisen, inasmuch as you cannot bring one of the parties
before you. That the constitution never cofitemplated giving jurisdiction to the federal Courts in
cases between a State and its own citizens, will a .
pear manifestly, from the only reason assigned for
giving it in favour of the citizens of other States, or
foreign citizens.. That reason was an insufficient one,
even for the purpose for which it was assigned, it
being, that as against foreigners and the citizens, of
other States, State Courts might not be impartial
where their States were parties- but such as it is, it

308
1821.

""
Cohens
v.

Virginia.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

never could apply as between a State and its own citizens, whom they were under every moral and political obligation to protect, and towards whom, there-

fore, there could be no apprehension of a want of

impartiality
Upon a full view of this aspect of the subject, the
fair construction of the constitution will be found
to be this-that in carving out the general mass-of
jurisdiction, it had reference only to the natural and
habiwtual parties to controversies, who are either natural persons, or Corporations, short of political societies, not to States, that in relation to these, they
could not have been made parties at all, but by express prov-ion, and that, therefore, the extent to
which the, can be so made, is limited by the extent
of that provision. It will be conceded, that the United States cannot be sued and why P Because it is
incompatible with their sovereignty. The States, before the adoption of the federal constitution, were
also sovereign, and the same principle applies, unless it can be shown that they have surrendered this
attribute of sovereignty, which I have endeavotfred
to show they have not.
Upon my construction, there is consistency throughout the constitution. According to it, a State can
never, be subjected, at the suit of any individual, to
any judicial tribunal, without its own consent, for it
can never be made a party defendant in any case, or
by any party, except in the cases between it, and another State, or a foreign State. If it be a party plaintiff, I have already endeavoured to prove that this

OF THE VNITED ,STATES-.

Court could never .take appellate; ut only-original
jurisdiction, and that therefore;.as between a State
and any individual, that State never coula be placed
in the attitude of a defendant, This idea is further
sustained by reference to the'history of the country.
From that we learn, that the great and radical defect in the first confederacy was, that its powers operated upon political societies.,or States, not upon'individuals. The characteristic difference between
that and the present government is that the latter
operates upon the..citizens.. Take, for example, the
power of t~iatfon, which addresses itself directly to
the people of the United States iq\die shape of an individual demand-instead of a requisition upon the
States, for their respective quotas-.
It has been said, that if this doctrine prevail,"the
federal government will be prostrated at the feet of
the States, and that the various limitations and prohibitions imposed upon the States by- the-constitution, will be a dead letter, upon the face-of that instrument, for the want of'some power to enforce
them. Let it be remembered that. the several State
legislatures and judiciaries, are all-bound by the solemn obligation of an oath, to support the, federal
constitution, that to suppose a State-'legislature capable of wilfully legislating -in violation of that conStitution, if it is to suppose -that it is so lost to the
moral sense asto be guilty of perjury, a supposition
which, thank God the character of your people
forbids us to make, nor can-it be realized,. uhtil weshall have reached a maturity of corru.p'tion, from
which I trust we are separated by a long tract of fu-

80W
1821.
Cohens

.
Wpm.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

310
1821.

kto

.Cohens

v.

Virginia.

ture time. But if the legislatures could be supposed
be so blind to the sacred dictates of conscience
and of duty, as to pass such a law, we have another
safeguard in the character of the State judiciaries.
Before effect could be given to it, it must be supposed that the sanctity of the judicial ermine was also
polluted. To him, who can for a moment entertain
this unjust and injurious apprehension, I have nothing to say, but to ask him to look at the talents, the
virtues, and integrity, which adorn and illustrate
the benches of our State Courts, and I will add,
that according to the doctrine maintained by this
Court, in the case of Hunter v Martin,4 the
judgments of the State Courts, in questions
arising under the constitution, between individuals, would be subject to the appellate jurisdiction of this Court.' But if the States are under limitationsr by the constitution, so also is the federal government. If the State legislatures may be
supposed possibly capable of violating that instrument, and the State judiciaries disposed to sustain
a I Wheat. Rep. 305.

b Mr. Barbour observed, in reply, that he wished to be distinctly understood, as not yielding his assent to the doctrine of
Hunter v Martin. On the contrary, that he decidedly concur.
red with the Court of Appeals of Virginia, that the appellate.
jurisdiction of the Supreme Court was in relation to inferior
federal Courts, not State Courts. But, as that question had
been solemnly decided otherwise by this Court, with the argument of the Court of Appeals of Virgima before them, he
had forborne to discuss it, he had referred to itt however, because, whilst this Court acted upon the principle of that case,
there was a controlling power, on the part of the federal, over
the State iudiciaries, in practical operation.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

them in that violation, it may as well be supposed,
that the federal legislature may be thus disposed, and
the federal judiciary prepared to sustain. them.
deWhenever the States shall be determined to
stroy the federal government, they will not find it
necessary to act, and to act in violation of the constitution. They can quietly and effectually accomplish the purpose by not acting. Upon the State
legislatures it depends to appoint the Senators and
Presidential electors, or to provide for their election.
Let them merely not act in these particulars, the executive department, and part of the legislative, ceases
to exist, and the federal government thus perishes
by a sin of omission, not of commission. But I will
endeavour in another way to show, that whenever
the -States shall have reached that point, either of
corruption, or hostility, to the federal government,
which they must arrive at before any of the extreme
supposed violations of the constitution could occur,
the jurisdiction now claimed for this Court would
be utterly inadequate as a remedy. Let us suppose
one of the most glaring violations of the constitution
a bill of attainder or expostfhcto law, for example,
passed. by a State , and*that the State judiciary proceeds to conviction of the party prosecuted. Let us
suppose, that this Court, claiming an appellate jurisdiction, forbids the execution of the party , but the
State Court orders itsjudgment to be executed, and
it is executed, by putting to death the prisoner. His
life cannot be recalled that is beyond the reach of
human power, can you prosecute the judges or
the officer for murder P It will not be contended,

311
1821.
Cohen&

V.
Virginia.

CASES IN THE SUPREMTE COURT
1821.
Cen

Cohens

v.
Virginia.

Of what avail, then, the' jurisdiction contended for,
even for the purpose for which it is claimed P I answer, of none at all.

Mr. Smyth stated, that he should support the motion to dismiss the writ of error granted in this case,
for two causes- (1.) Because the constitution gives
no jurisdiction to the Court in the case. (2.) Because the judiciary act gives no jurisdiction to the
Court in this case.
1. It is a question und.ecided, whether the appellate jurisdiction of this Court, as declared by the constitution, does or does.not extend to this case. If it
was in all respects. similar to the case of Hunter v.
Mfartm; adjudged in this Court, I should contend,
that the constitutional qjiestion of jurisdiction should
not be fegarded as settled. In that case, the counsel
conceded the constitutional question, and no argument has-been offered to thisCourt in support of the
jurisdiction of the State judiciary One of the learned Judges' of this Court said, in that case, when
speaking of the claim of power in this Court to exercise appellate jurisdiction over the State tribunals,
"this is a momentous question, and one on which I
shall reserve myself uncommitted, for each particular ease as it shall occur." And the Court said, that
"in several cases,-which have been fbrmerly adjudged in this Court, the same point was argued by
counsel, and expressly overruled." But the case
now before the Court, is very different from that of
a I Wheat. Rep. 3015.

b Mr. Justice JoHNso1.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Martin v. Hunter. This is a writ of error to revise
a judgment given in a criminal prosecution, and m a
case wherein a State was a party.
The government of the United States being one of

enumerated powers, it is not a sufficient justification
of the authority claimed, to say that there is nothing
in the constitution that prohibits the federal judiciary
to take cognizance, by way of appeal, of cases decided in the State Courts. All the powers not granted
are retained by the States, judicial power is granted,
but it is federal judicial power that is granted,
and not State judicial power. This grant neither
impairs the authority of the State Courts in suits remaining within their jurisdiction, nor makes them
inferior Courts of the United States. The government of the United States operates directly upon the
people, and not at all upon the State governments,
or the several branches thereof. The State governments are not subject to this government. The people are subject to both governments. This government is in no respect federal in its operation, although
it is, in some respects, federal in its organization.
Power has, indeed, been vested, by the constitution,
in the State legislatures, to pass certain laws necessary to organize and continue the existence of the
general government, and this power Congress may
in part assume. They may prescribe the time, place,
and manner, of holding elections of representatives,
the time and manner of choosing Senators by the
State legislatures, and the time of choosing electors
of a President. This power is expressly given by
40
VoL. VI.

1821.
C

.

Vima

CASES. IN THE SUPREME COURT,

314
1821.

the constitution, it was.necessary Congress should.

e
Cohens

possess it, for self-preservation, and, even in these

v.

cases, they have np power to prescribe to the State
legislature a legislative act. This government can-

Virpnia.

not prescribe an executive act to the executive of
a State, a legislative act to the legislature of a State,
or (as I contend) a judicial act to the judiciary of a
State.
If the constitution dop not cbnfer on thejudiciary
of the United States the appellate jurisdiction claimed, it is not enough that the act of Congress may
purport to confer it. The framers of thejudiciary act
manifested a distrust of their auihority ; they seem
to have foreseen that the State Courts would -refuse
to give judgment according to the opinions of the
Supreme Court. The case decided in the State
Court was not a case in law arising.-under the laws
of the United -States. It was a prosecution under a
law of the State. Should a mandate issue in this
case, and, obedience -be refused, this Court will give
judgment on a prosecution for violating State laws.
If the case decided in the State Court be regarded as
a case in which a State was a party, the Supreme
Court has, by the constitution, original, and not appellate jurisdiction. The appellate jurisdiction of
the Supreme Court is only conferred in cases Qther
thaii those whereof the Supreme Court has original
jurisdiction, Who has original jurisdiction of those
other cases P The inferior federal Courts. Some
of those other cases are those of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, of which, certainly, it was not in-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

-

182s.
tended that the original jurisdiction should be in the
State Courts.
Cohens
.
If this writ of error -be considered to be a suit in
law, this Court has no jurisdiction for it is prosecuted against a State ; and, by the 11th amendment
to the constitution, no suit in- law can be prosecuted
by foreigners or citizens of another State against one
of the United States. The ajmendment prohibits
such suits commenced or prosecuted against a State.
This seems expressly to extend to this writ of error,
which, although not a suit in-law commenced against
a State, is a suit in law prosecuted against a State.
This amendment, denying to foreigners and citizens
of other States the right to prosecute a suit against a
State, and being silent as to citizens of the same
State, affords a proof that the federal Courts never
had jurisdiction of a suit between a citizen and the
State whereof he. is a citizen" for it cannot be presumed, that a right to prosecute a suit against a.
State would be taken from a foreigner or citizen of
another State, and left to citizens of the same State.
A release of all suits is a release of a writ of error a
and, consequently, a writ of error is "a suit in law,"
and cannot be prosecuted against a State.
The-appellate jurisdiction conferred by the constitution on the Supreme Court, is. merely authority to
revise the decisions of inferior Courts of the United
States. Where the Supreme Court have not drigrnal jurisdiction, they have, by the constitution, appellate jurisdiction as to law and fact Could ithae
a Latch. 110.

2 Bar Ab" 497.

1 Roll. .br 188.

15

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

i1.
Cohets
T.

Virgima.

been intended to confer a power to re-examine decisions in the State Courts, to try again the facts
tried in those Courts, and .this even in criminal prosecutions P Surely not;. Appellate jurisdiction signifies judicial power over the decisions of the inferior
tribunals of the same sovereignty. Congress have
power to 1constitute" such tribunals, and it is
made their duty to " ordain and establish" such.
The framers of the constitution intenled to create a
new judiciary, to exercise the judicial power of a
new government, unconnected with the judiciaries
of the several States. Congress isnot authorized to
make the Supreme Court, or any other Court of a
State, an inferior Court. They do not 1constitute"
such a Court; they do not " ordain and establish
it." The judges cannot be impeached before the
Senate of the United States , they receive no compensation for their services from the United States,
and, consequently, cannot be required to render any
services to the United, States. The inferior Courts,
spoken of in the constitution, are manifestly to be
held by federal judges. The judicial power to. be
exercised, is the judicial power of the United States;
the errors to be corrected are those of thAt judicial
-power, and there can be no inferior Courts exercising the judicial power of the United States, other
than those constituted, ordained, and established by
Congress.
The Supreme Court has appellate jurisdiction in
cases to which the judicial power of the United
States shall extend, but unless the original jurisdiction has extended to the case, the appellate juris-

OF THE UNITERD STATES.

diction daunever reach, it. The original jurisdiction

1821.

alone is qualihedtO lay hold of it. If it shall -be -"-Cahens

deemed-proper-to extend:the.judicial power to all the
be
cases enumierated, tfie,original jurisdiction must

thus extended. The, Court exercising appellate ju.risdiction, must not only have jurisdiction over such
must have jurisdica cause, and such paries, but it.
tion over the tribunal. before which the cause has
been depending. Judicial power, includes.power to
deelde, and. -power to enforce the decision. This
Cmrt has rather disclaimed power -to enforce its
,Mandate to the- Supreme Court of a State. If you
liavb hot power to compel State tribunals to obey
your decisions,. you have no 'appellate jurisdiction
Fn cases depending before them. Suppose it should
be found necessary to direct a new trial in -a cause
removed from a -State Court, and that the State
Court refuses to obey your mandate, where shall the
new trial be had. P If you have appellate jurisdiction
in a- case decided by a State Court, you must have
power to- make your decisions a part of the record
of the State Court. The Constitution provides that
full faith and credit shall be given in each Siate, to
thejudicial proceedings of every other State. A
plaintiff recovers in the Courts -of Virginia judgment for a sum of money , you reverse the judgment;
but, the State Court does not record your decision,
the plaintiff obtains a copy of the record of the judicial proceedings of .the State, and presents them as
evidence before the Court of another State ,. he
mfst recover, notwithstanding yourjudgment, whki

v.

VirginiA.

318

GASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1821.
Coe"

v.

has not been made a part of that record, to which
full faith and credit is to be given.
To give jurisdiction over the State
not sufficient that the constitution has Courts, it is
said that the
Supreme Court shall have appellate.jurisdiction,
for that will be understood to signify, jurisdiction
over inferior federal Courts. To confer the jurisdiction claimed,, the constitution should have said,
that the judicial power of the United States shall
have appellate jurisdiction over the judicial power
of the several States. If it had been intended to
give appellate jurisdiction over the State Courts, the
proper expressions would have been used. There is
not a word in the constitution that goes to set up
the federal judiciary above the state judiciary. The
statejudicary is not once -named. The subjects spoken of are the judicial power of the United States ,
the supreme and inferior Courts of the United States.
and the original and appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court. Appellate jurisdiction is not granted
to the judicial power of the United States. It is
.granted to the Supreme Court of the United States.
Federal judicial power is authorized to correct the
errors of federal judicial power. I contend, that in
no case can the federal Courts revise the decisions of
the State Courts, no such power is expressly given
by the constitution- and can it be believed that it
was meant that the greatest, the most consolidating
of all the powers of this Government, should pass by
ari unnecessary. implication The States have granted to the United States power to pronounce their
own-judgmentin-certain cases but they :have not

OF THE UNITED STATES.

319

1821.
granted the State Courts to the federal Government,
nor power to revise State decisions.
Cohens
v.
The power of the House of Lords to hear appeals
Virgma.
menbeen
has
Scotland,
in
Court
highest
the
from
tioned as A precedent for the exercise of such a
power as is claimed for this Court ; but the- cases
are by-no means similar. Scotland.is consolidated
with England under the same executive and legislature; and, therefore) ought to be subject, in the
last resort, to the same judicial tribunal. If the
States had no executive except the President, and
no legislature except Congress, the cases would have
some resemblance.
If you correct the errors of the Courts of Virginia,
you either make them Courts of the .United States,
or you make the Supreme Court of the United
States a part of the judiciary of Virginia. The
United States can only pronounce the judgment of
the United States. Virginia alone can pronounce
the judgment of'Virginia. Consequently, none but
a Virginia Court can correct the errors of a Virgir
nia Court.
There is nothing in the constitution that"indicates
a design to make the State judiciaries subordinate to
the judiciary of the United States. The argument
that Congress must establish a Supreme Court, and
might have omitted to establish inferior Courts,
thereby deptiving the Supreme Court of its appellate
jurisdiction, unless it should be exercised over the
State Courts, seems to be without foundation. The
judicial power of the -United States is vested in the
-Supreme Court, and inferior Courts the ju dges of

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

320
1821.

"

Cohens

V

Virginia.

the inferior Courts shall receive a compensatioii.
The possibility of Congress omitting to perform a
duty positively enjoined on them, cannot change the
constitution, or affect the jurisdiction of the State
Courts.
The federal judiciary and Statejudiciaries possess
concurrent power in certain cases ; but no authority
is conferred on the one to reverse the decisions of the
other. The State Courts retain a concurrent authority in cases wherein they had jurisdiction previous
to the adoption of the constitution, unless it is taken
away by the operation of that Instrument. I say a
concurrent authority, not a subordinate authority
The power of the judiciary of the United States is
either exclusive or concurrent, but not paramount
power. And where it is concurrent only, then,
whichsoever judiciary gets possession of the case,
should proceed to final judgment, from which there
should be no appeal. If it shall be established that
this Court has appellate jurisdiction over the State
Courts in all cases enumerated in the third article of
the constitution,. a complete consolidatzon of the
States, so far as respects judicial power, is produced,
and it is presumed that it was not the intention of
the people to consolidate the judicial systems of the
States, with that of the United States. It has been
said, that the Courts of the United States can revise
the proceedings of the executive and legislative authorities of the States, and, if they are found to be
contrary to the constitution, may declare them to be
of no legal validity, and that the exercise of the
same right over judicial tribunals, is not a higher or

OF THE UNITED STATES.

more dangerous act of sovereign power. This conclusion seems to be erroneous. When the federal
Courts declare an act of a State legislature unconstitutional, or an act of the State executive unlawful,)
they exercise no higher authority than the State
Courts exercise, who will not only declare an act of
the State legislature, but even an act of Congress,
unconstitutional and void. This only proves that
the federal and State judiciaries have equally authority to judge of the validity of the acts of the other
branches of both governments, and has no tendency
whatever -oestablish the claim set up by federal judicial power, offbpremaey over State judicial power.
This writ of error bnffgs up the judgment rendered in a State Court, in a criminal prosecution. Every
government must possess within itself, and independently, the power to punish offences against its
laws. It would degrade the State governments; and
devest them of every pretension to sovereignty, to
determine that they cannot punish offences without
their decisions being liable to a re-examination, both
as to law and fact, (if Congress please,) before the
Supreme Court of the United States. The claim set
up would make the States dependent for the execution of their criminal codes, upon the federal judicicary. The cases "in which a State shall be a parly"
of which the Supreme Court may take cognizanoe,
are civil controversies. This- seems obvious; because, to the Supreme Court is granted original jurisdiction of them. And it will not be contended
I Wheat. Rep. -344.
Vet. VT.

41

321
1821.
cohens

v.
irx1

,

322

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1821.
Cohens

Cohens

v.
Virginia.

thatthe Supreme Court shall-have original jurisdiction
of prosecutions carried on by a State, against those
who violate its laws. If" casesin law and equity, ansing under the laws of the United States," comprehend criminal prosecutions in the State Courts, then
every prosecution against a citizen of the State, in
which he may claim some exemption under an act
of Congress or a treaty, however unfounded the
claim, may be re-examined, both as to law and fact,
(if Congress please,) in the Supreme Court. And if
c controversies" include such prosecutions, then
every prosecution against an alien, or I citizen of
another State, may be so re-examined, whether he
claine'such exemption or not. Can this Court bring
up a capital case, wherein some exemption under a
federal law is claimed by a prisoner in a State
Court Would an appeal lie, (should Congress so
direct,) from ajury P It would not, even if the trial
was had in a federal Court, for the accused has a
rightto a trial by a jury in the State and district
wherein the crime shall be charged to have been
committed. In all cases within the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, that jurisdiction may
extend to the law and the fact. But such jurisdicdon, as to the fact, cannot extend to criminal cases ;
consequently, it was not intended that the appellate
jurisdiction should extend to criminal cases, and,
therefore, the Supreme Court have no appellate jurisdiction in criminal cases. Can, then, the Court
take jurisdiction in this case, which was a criminal
prosecution, founded on the presentment of a grand
jury P Surely they cannot. This case was not a qu.

-OF THE UNITED STATES.

tam action) which is regarded as a civil suit. It was,

323
1821.

both in form and substance, a criminal prosecution. Cohiens
v.
And it has been declared by a judge of this Court,,
Virginia.
vested
are
States
that "the Courts of .the United
with no power to scrutinize into the proceedings of
the State Courts, in criminal cases.1b
That.which is fixed by the constitution, Congress
have no power to change. The jurisdiction of the
State Courts"Is fixed by the constitution. It is not a
subject for -congressional legislation. The people
of Virginia, in adopting the constitution of the United States, had power to diminish the jurisdiction of
'the Statejudiciarjr but Congress have no power
over it ;'they can neither diminish nor extend it,.
they can neither take from the State tribunals one
cause, or give them one to decide. As they cannot
inrpose on the. State Courts any duties, so neither
can they take from them any powers. Congress
can neither add to or diminish the legislative power,
the executive power, or the judicial power of'a State,
as fixed by the constitution. Congress may pass all
laws necessary and proper to execute that power
which is vested by the constitution in the judiciary
of the United States , but this does not sanction a
violation of the authority of the State Courts. None
can enlarge or abridge the jurisdiction of the judielary of Virginia, except the people of Virginia, or
the legislature of that State. As was the jurisdiction of the State judiciary on the 4th day of March,
1789, so it stands at tis day, unless altered by the
a Cowp. 382.

b 1 Wheat. Rep. 377.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

M4
1821.
"
Cohens

V.

Virg'mw.

State. If on that day the States retainedjursdiction
of most of the. cases enumerated in the third arlicle
of the constitution, that.lurisdictioh must have been
left to them by- the constitution, and capinot be taken
from them by Congress. The power either of a
State legislature or a State judiciary,. cannot depend
on the use of, or neglect to. use, a power,.by Con'
gress. Such State power is fixed by the constitution, the same to day as to-morrow, however. Congress may legislate.
The judicial power of the United -States--is conferred by-the constitution, and Congress cannot add
to that power. Congress may distribute -the federal
judicial' power among the feddral Courts, so far as
the .distribufion has not been made by' the constitution. If the :constitution. does not confer on this
Court, or on the federal.judiciary, the power sought
to be exercised, it is in vain that the actof Congress purports to confer it. And where the constiution confers -original jurisdiction, (as in cases
where a State is a party,).. Congress cannot change
it into appellate jurisdiction. The extent of the ju.
dicial power of the United States being fixed by the
constitution, it canhot be made exclusive or concurrent, at the will of Congrees. They cannot decide
whether it is exclusive of the State Courts.or not;
for that ts a judiczal question, arinng under the constitution. If the judicial power of the United States
is exclusive, Congress cannot communicate a part of
it to the State Courts, giving to the federal Courts
appellate jurisdictioa over them. If by th6 constitution the State judiciary has concurrent jurisdiction,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

M

1821.
Congress cannot grant to the federal Courts an apconsuch
of
exercise
the
over
pellate jurisdiction
Cohens
v.
current power. The state judiciary cannot have
independent or subordinate power, at the will and Virgiia.
pleasure of Congress.
The State judiciary have concurrent jurisdiction,
by the constitution, over all the cases enumerated in
the third article of the constitution, except, 1. Prosecutions for violating federal laws, 2. Cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdicton,; and, 3. Cases
affecting ambassadors, other public ministers, and
consuls. No government can execute the crminal
laws. of another government. The States have parted with exterior sovereignty As they cannot make
treaties, perhaps they have not jurisdiction in the
case of ministers sent to the federal government, as
they cannot make war and peace, regulate commerce,
define and punish piracies and offences on the high
seas, and against the law of nations, or make rules
concerning captures on the water, perhaps they have
no admiralty jurisdiction. The jurisdiction of the
State Courts over civil causes, arising under the constitution, laws, and treaties, seems to me to be unquestionable. The State judges are sworn to support the constitution, which declares them bound by
the constitution, laws, and treaties. This was useless, unless they have jurisdiction of causes arising
under the constitution, laws, and treaties, winch are
equally supreme law to the State Courts as to the
federal Courts. The State judges are bound by
oath to obey the constutional acts of Copgress,
but they are not so bound to obey the decisions of

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

3926

the federal Courts - the constitution and laws of the
United States are supreme, but the several branches
Cohens
of the government of the United States have no
V.
Virginia. supremacy over the corresponding branches of the
State governments.
Thejurisdiction of the State Courts is admitted
by Congress, in the judiciary act kur, by an odious
provision therein, which does not seem to be impartial, the decision of the State Court, if given in favour of him who claims under federal law, is final
and conclusive. Thus, the State Courts have ackno~ledged jurisdiction , and if that jurisdiction is
constitutional, Congress cannot control it.
Congress cannot authorize the Supreme Court to
exercise appellate jurisdiction over the decisions of
the State Courts, unless they have legislative power
over those Courts. Can Congress give an appeal
from a federal District Court to a State Court of
appeal P I presume it will be admitted that they
Because they
cannot. And why can they not
have no pover over the State Court. And if they
cannot give an appeal to that Court, they cannot
give an appealfrom that Court.
The constitution provides, that the judicial power
of the United States shall " extend to" certain enumerated cases. These words signify plainly, that
the federal Courts shlil have jurisdiction in those
cases, but this does not imply exclusive jurisdiction,
except in those cases where the juriadiction of the
State Courts would be contrary to the necessary
effict of the provisions of the constitution. Civil
1821.

OF TlE UNITED STATES

suits, arising under the laws of the United States,
may be brought and finally determined in the Courts
of -foreign nations, and, consequently, may be
brought and finally determined in the State Courts.
The judiciary of every government must judge of
its own jurisdiction. The federal judiciary and the
State judiciary may each determine that it has, or
that it has not, jurisdiction of the case brought before it but neither can withdraw a case from the
jurisdiction of the other. The question, whether a
State Courthas jursdictionor not, ts a judiczal question, to be settled by the State judiczary, and not by
an act of Congress, nor by the judgment of the Supreme Court of the United States. Shall the States
be denied the power of judging of their own laws '
As their legislation is subject to no negative, so their
judgment is subject to no appeal. Sovereignty consists essentially in the power to legislate, judge of;
and execute laws. The States are as properly sovereign now as they were under the confederacy.
and we have their united declaration that they then,
individually, ietained their sovereignty, freedom, and
independence. The constitution recognizes the sovereignty of the States for it admits, that treason
may be committed against them. They would not
be entitled to the appellation of "1 States" if they
were not sovereign.
Although the State Courts should maintain a concurrent jurisdiction with the federal Courts, yet foreigners would have what before the adoption of the
constitution they had not, a choice of tribunals, before which to bring their actions, and the State

327
1821.
Coheas

V.

Virginia.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

328
1821.
Cohens

V.
Virginia.

judges are now bound by treaties as suprem law.
If an alien plaintiff sues in the State Courts, he
ought to be bound by their decision , and if an alien
is sued in a State Court, he ought to be bound by
the decision of the State in which he resides or sojourns, which protects him, to which he owes a
temporary Alagiance, and to whose laws 'he should
yield obedience. The people could not have intended to give to strangers a double chance to recover,
while citizens should be held bound by the first de"cision, that the citizen should be bound by the
judgment of the State alone, while the stranger
shoulJ not be bound but by the judgment of the
State, and also of the United States. A statute
contrary to reason, is void. An act of Congress
which should violate the principles of natural justice,
should also be deemed void. It is worthy of consideration, whether this clause in the judiciary act,
which grants an appeal to one party, and denies it
to the other, -is not void, as being partial and unjust.
If.. in any case brought before them, the State Courts
shall not have jurisdicton, the defendant may plead
to the jurisdiction, and the Supreme Court of the
State will finally decide the point. If this is not a
suffivient security for justice, as I apprehend it is,
an amendment to the constitution may provide another remedy. If the defendant submits to the jurisdiction of the State Court, and takes a chance .of
a fair trial, it is reasonable that he should be bound
by the result.
As I deny to this Court authority to remove, by
writ of error, a cause from a State Court, so I like-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
wise deny the authority of this Court to remove, before judgment, from a State Court, a suit brought
therein. It will be equally an invasion of the j urisdiction of the State Court, although less offensive in
form, than a removal after judgment has been rendered. Congress can r it!,er regulate the State
Courts, or touch them by regulatio.n.
Let the Supreme Court declare (for it is a judicial
question) what cases are within the exclusive jurisdiction of the federal Courts, by the constitution ;
and let Congress pass the necessary and proper laws
for carrying that power into effect. Although I do
not admit that the State Courts would be absolutely
bound by such a declaration, yet I have no doubt
that the State Courts would acquiesce. It is not for
jurisdiction over certain cases that the State Courts
contend. It is for sndependence in the exer:cise of
the jurisdiction that is left to them by the constitution.
2. Does the 25th section of the judiciary act comprehend this case, so that the Court may take j unsdiction thereof
In this case the construction of a statute of the
United States is said to have been drawn in question,
and the decision in the State Court was against the
exemption claimed by the defendant in that Court.
This Court has no jurisdiction, if it shall appear that
the defendant really had no exemption to set up in
the State Court, under a statute of the United States.
If the act of Congress has no application, no bearing
"Vor,. VT.

42

32 9
1821.
v.
Virgmia.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

330

Cohens

on the case. the Court has no jurisdiction., The
parties cannot, by makingr an act of Congress, which

v.

does not affect the cause, a part of the record, give

1821.
'

Virginia.

this Court ,ursdietion.

This Court have sair,

nat "the soveregnzty of a

State in the exercise of its legislation, is not to be
impaired, unless it be clear that it has transcended
its legitimate authority nor ought any power to be
sought, much less to be adjudged, in favour of the
United States, unless it be clearly within the reach
This Court have
of their constitutional charter.'
also said, that ", the sovereign powers vested in the
State governments by their respective constitutions,
remained unaltered and unimpaired, except so far as
they were granted to the government of the United
StatesIc The State legislatures retain the powers
not granted, and not repugnant to the exercise of the
powers granted to Congress, and it is not denied,
that the legislature of Virginia possessed, previous to
the passage of the act of Congress for incorporating
the city of Washington, authority to prohibit the
sale of lottery tickets in Virginia. That legislature
still possesses the power, unless the exercise thereof
obstructs some means adopted by Congress for executing their delegated powers.
Actions are lawful or criminal, as the laws of the
land determine. Whether an action done in Virginia is lawful or criminali depends on the laws of that
a 4 Wheat. Rep. 311. Wheat. Digest, s. 301.
363. 4 Wheat. Rep. 314.
b 5 Wheat. Rep. 48.
c I Wheat. Rep. 325.

2 Wheat. Rep.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

State, unless the action has been authorized or pro182i.
hibited by Congress in carrying into execution some Cohens
T.
power granted to them, or the power of some departVirguna.
go.
State
The
government.
the
of
ment or officer
vernments are charged with the police of the States.
They, considering certain acts as having a demoralizing tendencyhave prohibited them. Shall Congress authorize those very acts to be done within the
body of a State P
So entirely is the police of a State to be regulated
by its own laws, that if Congress taxed licenses to
sell lottery tickets, the payment of the tax would not
confer on him who paid it, any authority to sell
tickets contrary to the laws of a State. Congress
imposed a tax on licenses to sell spirituous liquors by
retail , but that did not prevent the State governments from regarding tippling houses as nuisances,
and punishing those retailers of spirits who were not
licensed tavern keepers. The license is grantable
by the State, when granted, the federal government may tax it , but they have no power to grant
it. The police belongs to the State government,
and the federal government cannot, by the power of
taxation, interfere with the police, so as to legalize
any act which a State prohibits.
It is said that a lottery ticket owes it value to its
saleable quality. It is true that the saleability of the
ticket by the managers is essential to make the lottery of value to the corporation But, those sales
may be made in Washington. And, if they cannot,
must the constitution yield to a lottery P The proprietor of property has not a right every where to

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
f821.
Coht-ns
T

Virginia.

dispose of it as he pleases. A man may own poison-,
but he must not sell it as a medicine. He may own
money , but he may not, in Virginia, part with it at
public gaming He may come to Washington and
purchase a lottery ticket, but if he takes it to Virginia he must not sell it there. A lottery ticket is a
chose 2n actson, and not assignable by the common
law The State laws determine whether bonds,
not. Spirituous
bills, notes, &c. are assignabl.
liquors are property , but they cannot be sold by retail, without the license of the State government.
The act of Congress under which this lottery has
been authorized, is not an act passed in the execution of any of those specific powers Which Congress
may .xercise over the States. The acts of Congress must be passed in pursuance of the constitution, or they are void. If they have .passed a statute authorizing an act to be done in a State which
they bad no power to authorize in a State, their statute is void. The acts of Congress, to be supreme
law in a State, must be passed in execution of some
of the powers delegated to Congress, or to some department or officer of the government. Congress
may pass all taws necessary and proper to carry a
given power into effect but they must have a given
power. Now, what is the given power for the execution of which the sale of lottery tickets in the
States is an appropriate means P It is sufficieut to
show thatthe act passed is a means of carrying into
execution some delegated power. The degree of its
necessity or propriety will not be questioned by this
Court; butit must obviously tend to the execution

OF THE UNITED STATES.

or sanction of some enumerated power. If it shall
appear on the face of the act, that it is not passed for
the.purpose of carrying into effect an enumerated
power, and that it is passed for some other purpose,
the act would not be constitutional.
As to the object being a national one for which
the money is raised by the lottery in, question tihe
nation has no particular interest in any thing in the
City of Washington, except the public property and
buildings belonging to the United States. The improvements to be made in the City by the proceeds
of this lottery, are not national buildings for the accommodation of the federal government; they are
Corporation buildings for the accommodation of the
City, the charge of whidh is to be borne out of the
.revenues of the City. But, it is not admitted, that
if the money was to be applied to building of the
capitol, that Congress would- have power, for that
purpose, to authorize the sale of lottery tickets in a
State, contrary to State laws.
The nation is interested in the prosperity of every
city within the- limits of the Union. All may be
made to contribute to the public treasury-the City
of Washington as well as others. If these improvements in the City of Washington are such as the
United States should pay for, let the money be advanced from the treasury, and raised by taxes or by
loans in a constitutional manner, and let the taxes
imposed on "the City of Washington, for the purpose
of making these. improvements, be declared unconstitutional. They doubtless are so if the people of
Washington. alone are taxed- for.purposes 'truly na-

333
1821.
Cohens

v.
Virginia.

3

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

4

1821.

%en
Cohens

V.
Virginia.

tional. This measure Wsnot adopted to aid the revenue of the U iited States.

It is adopted for the pur-

pose of aiding the revenue of the City of Washington , for effecting objects which the revenue of the
City should effect, but which the ordinary revenue is
unequal to. It is to raise an extraordinary revenue
for the City of Washington. Virginia, in which
State it has been attempted to raise a part of this
extraordinary revenue, has no more interest in the
penitentiaries and city halls of Washington than in
those of Baltimore.
Our opponents must maintain that this is an act
of Congress authorizing the sale of lottery tickets in
Virginia For if it is not, the question is at an end. I
call upon them to show a power granted to Congress,
which the sale of lottery tickets in a State is an appropriate means of executing. Suppose that Congress had passed an act expressly authorizing P &
M. Cohen to vend lottery tickets in Virginia, for the
purpose of raising a fund to diminish the taxes laid
by the Corporation of Washington on the inhabitants,
for their own benefit would such an act have been
constitutional P Which of the enumerated powers of
Congress would such an act have been an appropriate means of carrying into effect Suppose that
Congress had considered lotteries as pernicious gambling could they have prohibited the sale of lottery
tickets in the States P It will be admitted that they
could not. And if they cannot prohibit the sale of
tickets in a State, it is contended that they cannot
authorize such a sale. Let us suppose that Congress
have passed an act authorizing- the sale of lottery

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tickets in the States, for the purpose of raising
money to build a city hall in the City of Washington : Is such an act within the constitutional powers

of Congress P Is it a mode of laying and collecting

taxes P Or is it a mode of borrowing money P And -is
it for the purpose of paying the debts or providing
for the general welfare of the United States ;
Should iteven be said that this lottery is a tax, or a
mode of borrowing money, yet the tax is laid, or the
money borrowed, not by and for the United States.
but by the Corporation for the City of Washington.
Congress have two kinds or grades- of power
(1.) Power to legislate over the States in certain
enumerated cases. (2.) Power to legislate ov-.the
ten miles square, and the sites of forts and arsenals,
in all cases whatsoever. These powers, so very
dissimilar, should be kept separate and distinct. The
advocates of the Corporation confound them. They
pass the act of Congress by 'the power to legislate
over the ten miles square, unlimited as to objects, but
coifined within the lines of the District, and they extend its operations over the States, by the power to
legislate over them, limited as to objects, but co-extensive with the Union. The act incorporating the
City of Washington was certainly not passed to carry
into execution any power of Congress, other than
the power to legislate over the District of Columbia.
If the clause conferring power to legislate in all
cases over the ten miles square, had been omitted,
could Congress establish lotteries P Could an act establishing a lottery be ascribed to any of the specific

33.5
2s21.

iens

v.
Virginia.

336

CASES IN -THE SUPREME COURT

1821.

'

'
V.

powers, in the execution of whicl, Congress may
legislate over all the States?
If the act authorizing a lottery is justified by the
powers which extend to the States, there is
no occasion to rest it on the power to legislate in all cases
over Columbia. And if it is not justified by the
powers which extend to the States, it cannot be justified by that power which, being limited to the District, does not extend to the States. If the act of
Congress has effect in Virginia, it is a law over the
States, and must have been passed by a power to
legislate over the States. Now, a law over the
States cannot be passed by a power to legislate over
Columbia. But it is the power to legislate over
Columbia that has been exercised. Therefore, no
law has been passed over the States. Consequently, no law has been passed having effect in the States.
It is, then, by the power to legislate over the ten
miles square that the authority to sell lottery tickets
in the States must be defended.
The power to legislate over the ten miles squar,
is strictly confined to its limits, and does not authorize the passage of a law for the sale of lottery
tickets in the States.a When Congress legislate exclusively for Columbia, they are restrained .to objects
within the District An act of Congress, passed by
the authority to legislate-over the District, cannot be
the supreme law in a State, for if, by the power to
lbgislate, m all cases whatsoever, over the Distnct,
Congress may legislate over the StAtes, it will nea Firgmza Debates tn Convention, vol. 2. p. 21. 29.

337

OF THE UNITED STATES.

cessarily follow, that Congress may.legislate over
the States in all cases whatsoever.
The constitution gives to Congress pow r to exzrcise exclusive legislation over the ten miles square,

in all cases whatsoever. In the case of Loughborough v. Blake, the Court said, that "on the extent
of these terms, according to the common understanding of mankind, there can be no difference of opiljion.a

What is the opinion in which all mankind

Not an
will -unte as to the extent of those terms
opinion that the laws passed in legislating over the
District, "-halloperate in the States. The opinion in
which it is presumed that mankind generally will
unite, is, that all acts of Congress, not contrary to
reason or the restrictions of the constitution, passed
in legislating over the District, shall operate exclusively within its limits, but not at all beyond them.
The power given to Congress, ,s power to legislate exclusively in all cases over the District. What
are -the appropriate means of executing that power P
To frame a code of laws havnig effect within the
District only; to establish Courts having jurisdiction
within the District only, &c. But what are the
Power to repeal the penal laws
powers claimed
of a State, power- to pass laws " that 'Inow no loloality in the Union ;" laws "that can encounter no
geographical imp diments ;" laws "whose march is
through the Union." I admit, that all the powers
of Congress, except this of exclusive egislation in
all cases, extend throughout the Union, it- this, by
a 5 Wheat. Rep. 317.

Vor'. YT.

43

1821.
Cohens

V.

CASES rN THE SUPREiIE COURT

338
1891.

I
Colieus
V

the most express words, and from its nature, is local.
Yet in this case, by a power to legislate-for a District
ten miles square, Congress is made to -assume a
power to legislate over the whole Union, and because an act is authorized to be done in Columbia,
over which Congress may legislate in all cases whatsoever, it is, therefore, to be a legal act when done
in a State, the laws of such State notwithstanding.
The power given to Congress to legislate over the
District in all case§ whatsoever, is precisely of the
same extent as if this had been the only power conferred on them. Now, had it been the only power
conferred on Congress, could there have arisen any
doubt about its extent P When Congress legislate
for the District of Columbia, they are a local legislature. The authority to legislate over the District
in all cases whatsoever, is as strictly limited as is that
of the legislature of Delaware to legislate only over
Delaware. The acts of the local legislature have no
operation beyond the limits bf the place for which
they legislate.
If this clause confers on Congress any legislative
power over the States, it must be of the kind granted. But the power granted is exclusive, and no one
will contend, that an exclusive power to legislate
over the States is conferred on Congress. The
power given extends to all cases whatsoever, and no
one will contend, that Congress have power to legislate over the States in all cases whatsoever. The
grant is of an exclusive power in all cases over ten
miles square. The claim set up is a claim of Paramount power over the whole United States.

339

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Any single measure which Congress may adopt,
must be justified by some single grant of power, or
not at all. No combination of several powers can
authorize Congress to adopt a single measure which

they could not adopt either by one or another of
those powers, combined with the power to pass necessary and proper laws for carrying such single
power into effect.
There is no repugnancy between the acts of Virginia against selling lottery tickets within that State,
and the power granted to Congress to legislate over
the District of Columbia. There can be none, for
the line of the District completely separates them.
The act passed by Congress is confined to the District,
the act of the State legislature is confined to the State
How can there be any repugnancy P A power to legislate over Virginia cannot come into collision with
a power to legislate over the District, uiless those
to whom they are entrusted pass the limits of their
jurisdiction. It is not alleged, that the legislature of
Virginia have passed the limits of their jurisdiction.
If Congress have authorized a lottery to be drawn
within the city, the sale of tickets, and the drawing
of the lottery are thereby legalised within the city.
Congress have never said that lottery tickets may
be sold in the States. Those tickets may be sold in
any place where the local laws will admit. But
that they should be sold in Virginia, where such a
sale is unlawful, Congress have neither enacted, nor
had power to enact. It is said, that without a power
to sell the tickets. the power to draw the lottery is

182i.
Cohens

v.
Virg""

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

340
1821.
e
Cohiens

V.
Virginia.

ineffectual.

I answer, if a power to sell lottery

tickets necessarily follows a power to draw lotteries,

as the lotteries must be drawn in the city, so there
6he tickets must be sold. The authority to sell is.
the authority to draw , and as the principal authority (to draw) is confined to the city, so is the consequent authority, (to sell.) Can the Corporation
draw lotteries in the States P If not, where is their
authority to sell where they have -no authority todraw P If the seller of lottery tickets is the agent
of the Corporation, then they can clothe him with
no legal authority to be executed in a State, contrary
to the law of the State. The Corporation must sell
their tickets where they have authority, or where
they are permitted to sell. If the seller was a purr
chaser of tickets, and desires to sell again, the City
has no interest in that subsequent sale, and the
purchaser must sell where he is permitted to sell.
Why should the owners of these tickets have an exclusive .privilege in Virginia, to sell their tickets.
contrary to the laws of the land P
It has been, in effect, maintained, that Congress
may not only themselves legislate over the Union,
but that they may exercise this power by substitute.
Power to legislate over a State must be derived from
If the
the people, and cannot be transferred.
power to legislate over the City may be vested in the
representatives of the people thereof, yet, surely, a
power to legislate over the States cannot be transferred to the representatives of the people of the City
When Congress pass an act which shall have the

Of. THE-UNITED STATES.

effectof law in the States, it must be passed in pursuance -ofpower delegated to them by,the people of
the States. The constitution declares, that "all
a
legislative power herein -grantcd-shil be ',vested in.
Congress of the United States." This vested powercannot be transferred to a Corporation. It must be
exercised by Congress, and in the manner. prescribed
by the constitution., Legislative power- is not, in- its
nature, transferrable. The people do not consent to
obey any laws except those passed by their representatives-accordig. "othe.onstitution. They who
legislate- for the nation must represent -the nation.,
The, Corporation of Washington cannot receive power
to legislate over the people of the Uiiitey] 'tates:
To- incorporate the people of the City of Washington with power to make by-laws for the government
and police of the city,.is no transfer of power. i is
an authority to exercise ao inherent power. Thereis in every body of peopIe a ,aatural inherent right to'
legislate for themselves :.bu t small societi 6 s must
have permission or authority, from tie-great socities, of mhich they form -a part. Thus, -Congreas
authorized the people of Missouri to form a constitution, and govern themselves. Is this a ti'ansfer of
power P No, certainly- it is an authority to exercise the inherent power of the people in governing
themselves. Congress may authorize"the pdople bf
Washington, or the people of Arkanas,'&'-govern
thernselves: but itwas never heard, unfiY"this case
arose, that a local Cbrporation, authorized by Congress to legislate for themselves, could pass laws of

is2.
Cohen"

v.

S4.2

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

2821.

obligation. throughout the Union: laws paramount

Cobens

in the States to the laws of the States.
It seems to have been considered by the advocates of the Corporation, that what Congressau-

r.

Virginia.

thorizes to be done, that they do. This Snot so.
Congress authorized Missouri to form a constitution,
but Congress did not therefore form the constitution
of Missouri. The Corporation of-Washington were
left -free to act on -the subject of lotteries. They
were empowered to-authorize the drawing of lotteries,
and to pass the .laws necessary and proper forcearrying that power into effect. The law. establishing
the lottery in question , is the by-law of the Corporation. The by-laws of the City of London are not
acts of Parliament, or laws of the -realm, neither
have the by-laws of the City of Washington any
force beyond the limits of-the City.
Congress have not said--ta.t the lottery tickets
should be sold in the States. They have not even
said that there shall be a lottery. Congress empowered the Corporation to pass the law, and the Corporation passed it, the ordinance of the Corporation
establishing a lottery, is no more a part. of the act of
Congress, than the territorial laws now passing 'iu
Arkansas will be parts of the acts of Congress. It
is not an act of Congress under which these tickets
have been sold in Virginia, contrary to the laws of
that State it is a by-law of the Corporation of
Washington that gave existence. to this lottery An
act of Congress does not apply to the case, and
therefore this Court have no jurisdiction under the
judiciary act.

.343

OF THE UNITED STATES.

The powers of the Corporation of Washington
are confined within the limits of the City. Being a
Corporation for government, all within the corporate limits are subject to them, but no others.a
They cannot make a by-aw affecting even their own
members beyond the corporate limits, they have
no power to pass a law authorizing the sale of lottery tickets in Georgetown, much less have they the
power to authorize the sale of them in a State, contrary to its laws. This by-law either extends beyond the limits of the City, or it does not. If it does,
it-is void- and if it does not, it can have no effect in
Virginia. The by-laws of a Corporation are to be sub-ject to the laws of the land, even within their limits.
The laws of the States are the laws of the land, within
their limits, on subjects not committed to Congress.
To those laws all corporate laws are subject.' But
there cannot be that kind of collision between bylaws of the Corporation of Washington and State
laws, as between the by-laws of the Corporation of
the City of London, and the laws of England. As
the by-laws of London may come in collision with
the laws of England, but cannot come in collision
with the laws of Ireland and Scotland, in those
countries, so the by-laws of the Corporation of
a I Bac. .8br 544. 2 Comyn's Dig. 154. 3 Mod. 159. 1 Nels,

AIbr 415. T. Jones 144. 1 Xels. Abr 413. $ Yeates, (Penn.)
478.
b 1 Bac. Abr 544, 545. 551. Robart, 211. 5 Co. 63 and 8
Co. Rep. 1T6.

s21.
Cohens

V.

34,4

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT-

Cdhbns,

Washington may come in collision with the laws of
the United States in the ten miles square, but can

I.

never come in collision with the laws of a State,

1821.

Virginia.

they cannot have operation in a State.
The Court will maintun the powers of Congress
as granted by the people, and -for the purposes for
which they were granted by the people, and will, if
possible, to preserve harmony, prevent the clashing
of federal. and State powers. Let each operate
within their respective spheres, and let each be confined to their assigned limits. We are all bound to
support the consiuton. How will that be best effbeted P Not by claiming and exercising unacknowledged power. The strength thus obtained will
prove pernicious. The confidence of the people constitutes the real strength of this government. Nothing can so much endanger it as exciting the hostility of the State governments. With them it is to
determine how long this government shall endure. I
shall conclude by again reminding the Court of a declaration of their own, that, "no power ought to be
sought, much less adjudged, in favour of the United
States, unless it be clearly within the reach of their
constitutional charter."
for

Mr. D. B. Ogden, contra, (I.) stated, that he
should not argue the general question whether this
Court had an app6llate.jurisdiction, in any case, from
the State Courts, because it had been already solemnly adjudged by this Court, in the case of Aiartin v Hunter a
a I Wheat. Rep. 304.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

M4

i82i.
2. This is a case arising under the constitution
and laws of the Union, and therefore the jurisdic- "Cohens
v.
tion of the federal Courts extends to it by the express letter of the constitution , and the case of Virginii.
Martin v. Hunter has determined that this jurisdiction may be exercised by this Court in an appellate
form; But it is said, that the present case does not
arise under the constitution and laws of the United
States, because the legislative powers of Congress,
as respects the District of Columbia, are limited and
confined-to that District. But, if the law be thus limited in its operation, how is this to be discovered
but. by examining the constitution P and how is this
examination to be had but by taking jurisdiction of
the case? In the whole argument, constant reference was had, and necessarily had, to the-constitution, in order to decide the qase between the parties,
upon this question ofjurisdiction, and yet it is said -to
be a case not arising under the constitution. It is
also contended) that it is not an act of Congress, the
validity of which is drawn- in question in tho present
case, but an ordinance of the Corporation of the City
of Washington, and the maxim of delegatus non
potest delegare, is referred to, in order to show that
the Corporation cannot exercise the legislative power
of-Congress. Is it meant by this to assert that Congress cannot authorize the Corporation to make bylaws P Even the soundness of this position cannot be
determined without examining the constitution and
acts of Congress, and adjudging upon their interpretation. The whole District of Columbia, and all its
subordinate municpal Corporations, are the creatures
VoL. VI.

44

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1831.

v.
Viria.

of the constitution, and the acts of Congress, relative to it, must be determined by the constitutionand must be laws of the United States. Are not
the extent of the powers vested in Congress, and the
manner in which these powers are to be executed,
necessarily, questions arising under the constitution,
by which the powers are given P How can the question, whether this is a lottery authorized by an ordinance of the Corporation, and not by a law of the
United States, be decided, but by a reference to the
laws of the Union, and the constitution under which
they were enacted P The plaintiffs in error set up a
right to sell lottery tickets in the State of Virginia,
under the constitution and laws of the United
States, and the-State denies it. By whom is this
question to be decided P It is a privilege or exemption, within the very words of the judiciary act,
setup or claimed, by the party, under the constitution and laws of the Union. It is immaterial for the
present purpose whether the claim be well or ill
founded. The question is, whether the party setting
up the claim, is to be turned out of Court, without being heard upon the merits of his case. If
you have not jurisdiction, you cannot hear him
upon the merits. Upon this motion to quash the
writ of error, you can only inquire into the jurisdiction, and cannot look into the merits: but you
are asked to turn the party out of Court for defect
of jurisdiction, and without giving him an opportunity to show that by the laws and constitution
of the Union, he is entitled to the privilege and exemption which he chums. It is no answer to say that

OF THE UNITED STATES.

347

1821.
any individual may allege that he has such a privllege, in order to remove his case from the State Cohens
v.
Court to this, because no injury would ensue, as the
case would be sent back with damages and even if Virg'in.
there might be some inconveniences, from improperly bringing causes bere, they ought rather to be
submitted to, than to hazard the possible violation of
the consutuuonal rights of a citizen.
3. It is no objection to the exercise of the judicial
powers of this Court, that the defendant in error is
one of the States of the Union. Its authority extends, in terms, to ALL cases arising under the constitution, laws, and treaties of the United States , and
if there be any implied exceptions, it is incumbent on
the party setting up the exception to show it. In
order to except the States, it is said that they are
sovereign and independent societies, and therefore
not subject to the jurisdiction of any human tribunal. But we deny, that since the establishment of
the.national constitution, there is any such thing as
a sovereign State, independent of the Union. The
people of the United States are the sole sovereign
apthority of this country. By them, and for them,
the constitution was established. The people of
the United States in general, and that of Virginia in
particular, have taken away from the State governments certain authorities which they had before, so
that they are no longer sovereign and independet in
that sense which exempts them from all coercion by
judicial tribunals. Every State is limited in its
powers by the provisions of the constitution, and
whether a State passes those limits, is a question

A&Q
1821.
Cohenm

,n..
Virlza

CASES IN THE SUPREMIE COURT

which the people of the Union have not thought fit to
to the State legislatures or judiciaries, but
have -conferred it exclusively on this Court. The
Court would have thejuisdiction without the word
State being mentioned in the constitution. The term
"all cases," means all, without exception ; and the
States of the Union cannot be excepted, by implication,
because they have ceased to be absolutely sovereign
and independent. The constitution declares that
every citizen of one. State, shall have all the privLleges of the citizens of every other State. Suppose
Virginia were to declare the citizens of Maryland
aliens, and proceed to escheat their lands by inquest
of office- the party is without a remedy; unless he
can look for protection to this Court, which is the
guardian of constitutional rights. Because the State,
which is the wrong doer, is a party to the suit, is
that a reason why he should not have redress? By
the original text of the constitution, there is no limitation in respect to the character of the parties,
where the case arises under the constitution; laws,
and treaties of the Union. and the amendment to
the constitution resiecting the suability of States,
merely applies to the other class of cases, where it is
the character of the parties, and not the nature of
the controversy, which alone gives jurisdiction. The
original clause giving jurisdiction on account of the
character of the parties, as aliens, citizens of different States, &c. does not limit, but extends the judicial power of the Union. The amendment applies
to that alone. It leaves a suit between a State and
a citizen, arising, under the constitution, laws, &c.

Strust

OF THE UNITED STATES.

M

1821.
where it found it; and the States are still liable to
be sued by a citizen, where the jurisdiction arises in cohens
v.
this manner, and not merely out of the character of
Virginia.
the parties. The jurisdiction in the present case
arises out of the subject matter of the controversy,
and not out of the character of the parties, and;
consequently, is not affected by the amendment.
But it.is said, that admitting the Court has juris;diction where a State is a party, still that jurisdiction
mustbe.onginal, and not appellate; because the consututioh .declares, that in cases in which a State shall
be party, the Supreme Court shall have origmajurisdiction, and in all other cases, appellate jurisdiction. The answer is, that-this provision was merely intended to prevent States from being sued in
the inferior Courts of the Union, that the Supreme Court is to have appellate jurisdiction-in all
cases arising under the constitution, laws, and treaties of the United States that where, m such a
case, a State sues in its own Courts, it must be understood as renouncing its privilege or exemption,
and to submit itself to the appellate power of this
Court, since, if the jurisdiction in this class of cases
be concurrent, it cannot be exercised originally in
the Supreme Court, wherever the State chooses to
commence the suit in its own Courts. Nor is there
any. hardship in this construction. The State cannot be sued in its own Courts, but if it commences
a suit there against a citizen, and a question arises
m that suit under the constitutid6n, laws,, and treaties
of the Union, there must be power in this Court to
revise the decision of the State Court, in order to

850
1821.
Cohens

v.
Vma.

CASES IN THE SUPREME"COURT

produce uniformity in the construction of the consti~ tution, &c. So,.if a consul sues in the Circuit Court,
this Court ha's appellate jurisdiction, although the
consul could not be sued in the Circuit Court. And
if the United States, who cannot be sued any where,
think proper to sue in the. District or Circuit Court,
they are amenable to the, appellate jurisdiction of
this Court. Even granting, therefore, that-a State
cannot be sued in any case; the State is not sued
here: she has sued a citizen, in her own tribunals,
who implores the protection of this high Court to
give him the benefit of the constitution and laws of
the Union. The jurisdiction does not act on the
State; it merely prevents the State from acting on a
citizen, and depriving him of his constitutional and
legal rights.
It is true, there are some cases where this Court
cannot takejurisdiction, though the constitution and
laws of the Union are violated by a State. But
wherever a case is fit for judicial' cognizance, or
wherever the State tribunals take cognizance of -it,
whether properly or not, the appellate power of this
Court mayIntervene, and protect the constitution and
laws of the Union from violation. Doubtless, a
State might grant titles of nobility, raise and support
armies and navies, and commit many other attacks
upon the constitution, which this Court could not
repel. But if these attacks were made by judicial
means, or if judicial means were used to compel
obedience to-these illegal measures, the authority of
this Couit could, and would) intervene. Nor can

OF THE UNITED STATES.

this argument apply to a case, which is entirely
judicial in its very origin, and, therefore, steers clear
of the supposed difficulty of vindicating the constiother
tution and laws of the Unmn from violatiqn in
cases which may be imagined.
Neither is this a criminal case. The offence in
question is -not made a misdemeanour by the law of
Virginia. That law merely imposes a penalty, which
may be recovered by action of debt, or information,
or indictment. The present prosecution is a mere
mode of recovering the penalty. But suppose it is a
criminal case. The constitution declares, that the
Court shall have jurisdiction In ALL cases arising
under it, or the laws and treaties of the Union , which
includes criminal as well as civil cases, unless, indeed, Congress has refused jurisdiction over the
former in the judiciary act, which we insist it' has
not.
Mr. Pinmney, on the same side, (1.) argued, that
there was no authority produced, or which could be
produced, for the position on the other side, that this
Court could not, constitutionally, exercise an appellate jurisdiction over the judgments or decrees of the
State Courts, in cases arising under the constitution,
laws, and treaties of the Union. The judiciary act
of 1789, c. 20. contains a cotemporaneous construction of the constitution in this respect, of great
weight, considering who were the authors of that
law; and which has been since confirmed by the rep.eated decisions of this Court, constantly exercising

1821.
V.
Virgina

$52
1821.
Cohens

V.

Virginia.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the jurisdiction in question.' This legislative and
judicial exposition has been acquiesced in, since no
attempt has ever been made to repeal the law upon
the ground of its repugnancy to the constitution:
Transiit sn rem judicatan. But even before the
constitution. was adopted, and whilst it was submitted to public discussion,.this interpretation was given
to it by its friends, who were anxious to avoid every
objection which could render it obnoxious to State
jealousy. But they well knew that this interpretation was unavoidable, and the authors of the celebrated Letters of Publius, or the Federalist, have
stated it in explicit terms.b
- a Clarke v. Harwood, 3 DalU. 342. Gordon v. Caldcleugh,
3 Cranch, 268. Smith v Maryland, 6 Craneh, 286. Matthews v.Zane, 4 Cranch, 382. Owings v. Norwood's Lessee,
5 Cranch,344. Martin v. Hunter, I Wheat. Rep. 304. Otis v.
Waiter, 2 Wheat. Rep. 18, Miller v. Nicholls, 4 Wheat. Rep.
M'lIntire v.
-311. Gelston v Hoyt, 3 Wheat. Rep. 246.
Rep. I.
2
WIeat.
v
Mayberry,
Slocum
Wood, 7 Cranwh, 505.
Pep.
316.
Whieal.
M'Culloch v. Maryland, 4
b."1Herp another question occurs--what relation would subsist between the national and the State Courts in These instances
of concurrent jurisdiction? I answer, that an appeal would
certainly lie from the latter to the Supreme Court of the United States. The constitution in direct terms gives an appellate
jurisdiction to the Supreme Court 14 all the enumerated cases
it is not to have an origiqal
of federal cognizance, in whb
one, without a single expression to confine its operation to
the inferior federal.Courtq. The objects of appeal, not the
tribunals from which it is to be made,"are alone contemplated.
From this circumstance, and from the reason of the thing, it
ought to be construed to extend to the State tribunals. Either
this must be the case, or the local Courts must be excluded

OF THE UNITED STATC.3

353

But it is said, that the jurisdietion-of the Staite
1821.
Courts is concurrent with those of the Union, over Coh
V.
that class of cases arising under the constitution,
Virguila.
howThis,
States.
United
the
of
treaties
and
laws,
ever, is not of absolute necessity, but at the discretion of Congress, who may restrain and modify.this
concurrent jurisdiction, or render it exclusive in the
federal tribunals at their pleasure. The supremacy
of the national constitution and laws, is a fundamental principle of the federal government, and would
be entirely surrendered to State usurpation, if Confrom a concurrent jurisdiction in matters- of national concern,
else the judiciary authority of the Union may be eluded at the
pleasure of every plaintiff or prosecutor. Neither of these

consequences ought, without evident necessity, to be involved,
the latter would be entirely inadmissible, as it would' defeat
some of the most important and avowed purposes of the proposed government, and would essentially enibarrass its measures.

Nor do I perceive any foundation for such a supposition.
Agreeably to the remark already made, the nat6'hl and State
systems are to be regarded as ONE WHOLE. The Courts of the
latter will of course be natural auxiliaries to the execution of
the laws of the Union, and an appeal from them wiul as naturally
lie to that tribunal whith is destined to unite and assimilate the
principles of national justice and the rules of national decisions.
The eVident aim of the plan of"the cofiientioi's, that.all the
causes of the specified classes shall, for weighty public reasons,
receive their original or final determination tn the Courts of the
Union. To confine, therefore, the general expressions, giving
appellate jurisdiction to the Supreme Court, to appeals from
the subordinate federal Courts, instead of allowing their extension to the State Courts, would be to abridge the latitude of
the terms, in subversion of the intent, contrary to 'every sound
rule of interpretation." No. LXXXIII.
VOL VL.

45

854

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1821.
Cohens

v.

Virpnia.

gress. could not, at its option, invest the Courts .of
the Union with exclusive jurisdiction over this class
of cases, or give those Courts an appellate jurisdiction over them from the decisions of the State tribunals. Every other branch of federal authority might
as well be surrendered. To part with this, leaves
the Union a mere league or confederacy of States
entirely sovereign and independent. This particular
portion .of the judicial power of the Union is indispensably necessary to the existence of the Union.
It is an axiom of political science, that the judicilg
-power of every government must be commensurate
with its legislative authority : it must be adequate to
the protectior, enforcement, and assertion of all the
other powers )f the government. In some cases this
power must necessarily be directly exercised by the
federal tribunals, as in enforcing the penal laws of.the
Union. But in other cases, it is merely aprotecting
power, and cannot, from the very nature- of things,
be exercised in the first instance, by the Courts of
the Union. Such are suits between citizen and
citizen on contract. Here the State Courts must necessarily have original jurisdiction ; but if the party
defendant sets up a defence, founded (for example)
upon an act of the State legislature supposed to impair the obligation of contracts, and the decision of
the State Court is in. favour of the law thus set up,
the judicial authority of the Union must be exerted
over the cause, or that clause of the constitution
which prohibits any State from making a law impairing. the obligation of contracts is a dead letter.
There is nothihg in the constitution which prohibits

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1821.
the exercise of such a controlling authority. On the
contrary, it is expressly declared, that where the Coliens
V.
case arises under the constitution and laws of the
Union, the judicial power of the Union shall extend VirgiiLa.
to it. It is the case, then, and not the forum in
which it arises, that is to determine whether the judicial authority of the Union shall be exercised over
it. But there is a class of cases which must necessarily originate in the State tribunals, because it cannot be known at the time the suit is commenced,
Whether it will or will not involve any question arising under the constitution and laws of the Union.
Over this class of cases, then, the Courts of the
Union must have appellate jurisdiction. The appl..
late power of this Court is extended by the constitutibn to all cases within the judicial authority of the
Union, and not included within the orzgznaljurisdiction of this Court. Its appellate power, so far as
respects the constitution, depends, then, on two
questions only- is the case within the judicial power
of the Union and is it within the original cognizance of this Court? The first question being answered affirmatively, and the second negatively, the
appellate power under the constitution is complefely
established in any given ease.
But the power of removing this class of causes,
pendente &e, is also denied ; and it is said, that the
authority to remove, before judgment, a suit brought
in the State Court, into the federal Court, is repugnant to the constitution. In Vartin v. Hunter, the
argument 'was the other way, .and it was msisted,
that Congress ought to have given tO this Court the

S56

CAESI

182L
.

power of evo

T

-WO...RMECOURT

g this depription of causes from the

State tribunals, the m.ent.any question arose resFecting the constttifionxnd: lawe of the Union, in
order to avoid the offefiive e-ercise of an appellate
juiisdiction ever the State Coufts. Quacunque via
daia-it is immaterial, for the power of removal, if
it be not unconstitutional, is an appellate poweranid
analogbus to a writ of error. If it be- unconstitutional, the necessity for, the controlling power of a
writ of error, -i
only the iiore manifest. Take aw y
both, and the .cofistiftition.,lawsid: treaties. of Ad
Uilon lie atthe mercy ofilhi State jddicattfres.
Again. It is said, that the judges of thbe:. State
Courts take.an oath to support the constitution of
the nVion, and the laws. and -reaties 'of the 'Uiiioit
are their supreme law -and-it is inferreff,. that thii
constit.tion reposes imipycit onfidfce iWtem,.and
there..bught t6 be no revision of d.iii judgmniits.
But, it may-be,asked, if the constitution reposes this
implicit confidence in. the State ttibunals, why does
it -authorize -the establishment of federal Courts,
which,, upon. this supposition, would be wholly uw,
less P And whj are the members of the -State legis.
latures and. elecutives required to take the same
oath P They are bound to support the constitution
by the same solemn sanctions, and yet their acts
may confessedly be set. aside by .the national judicatures, as being repugnant to that constitution. The
actual constitution of this country is not a govern,
ment of confidence; it is a scheme of government
a I Wheat. Rep. 31D.

OF THE UNITE

STATES.

357

conceived in the spirit of jealousy, and render6d
1821.
:
-"
means
own
by
its
purposes,
adequate to all its own
Cohens #
and the judicial power of the Union is the principal
v.
Virgnm.
diswhich
is
it
This
it.
to
effect
means of giving
tinguishes it from the Confederation. Experience has
shown the necessity and wisdom of this provision.
If the State Courts may adjudicate conclusively for
the"Union, why may not the State legislatures legis-late for it, and .where is the utility of distinct and
appropriate powers, if it cannot maintain them from
violation P In Martin Y. .Huntera the Court- considered this argument fully, and thought it operated
the- other way. The care which the constitution
takes to make the State Courts respect it, and the
laws and treaties made 'under it, proves that it was
supposed that cases might come before theni by original suit, which would involve the rights and interests of~the Union, and lay a foundation for appeal or
revision. This was anticipated, and the constitution 6.ndeavours to make the first decision correct, by
the sanction of an oath. But it does not improvidently rely upon that alone. The judges of the inferior Courts of the Union take the same oath, and
lie under the same obligation , but they are not the
less subject to the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court.
But it is asked, can Congress grant an appeal
from the District or Circuit Court, to a State Court?
The question is answered in the negative, and it is
thence inferred that they cannot grant an appeal
a 1 Wheat. Rep. 349.

358

CASES "IN THE SUPREME COURT

from a State to a federal Court. This seems to imply that you can do nothing unless you can do its
V.
opposite. Such a proposition would repeal all the
Virg'a. physical and moral laws of the universe. *Aswell
1821.

,

might it be asked, can Congress grant an appeal
from the Supreme to the District Court, and because there is something absurd in the idea -of an
appeal from a superior to an inferior tribunal, it
would be inferred that the opposite appeal could not
be granted. But, until the relation of supreme and
subordinate is destroyed, the State laws and judicatures must be considered as subordinate to those of
the Union, in all cases within the scope of its
powers and jurisdiction. Such was once the doctrine asserted by Virginia herself, and to which it is
confidently believed she will revert in a moment of
calmer reflection. a Tlhe learned counsel here read the followIg resolutions of
the legislature of Virginia.
Extract from the Journal of the Senate of the Commonwealth of Virgutia, begun and held at the Capitol in the City of
Richmond, the 4th day of December, 1809.
Friday, January26, 1810. "Mr. Nelson reported from the
Committee to whom were committed the preamble and resolutions on the amendment proposed by the legislature of Pennsylvania, to the constitution of the United States, by the ap.
pointment of au impartial tribunal to decide disputes between
the State and federal judiciary, that the Committee had, according to order, taken the said preambles and resglutions
under their consideration, and directed him to report them
without any amendment. And on the question being put thereupon, the same were agreed to unanimously, by the House,.as
follows The Committee to whom was referred the commumcation of the Governor of Pennsylvania, covering certain reso-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

2. It is further contended on the other side, that
this Court has no jurisdiction of the present case,
because the writ of error presents no question adlutions of the Legislature of that State, proposing an amendment to the constitution of the United States, by the appointment of an impaftial tribunal to decide disputes between the
State 'and federal judiciary, have had the same under their consideration, and are or opinion that a tribunal is already provided
by the Constitution of the United States, to wit The Supreme
Court, more eminently qualified from their habits and duties,
from the mode of their selection, and from the tenure of their
offices, to decide the disputes -aforesaid, in an enlightened and
impartial manner, than any other tribunal which could be
created. The members of the Supreme- Court are selected
from those in the United States who are most celebrated for
virtue and legal learning, not' at the will of a single individual,
but by the concurrent wishes of the President and Senate of the
United States, they will, therefore, have no local prejudices and
partialities. The duties they have to perform lead them necessarily to the mosf enlarged and accurate acquaintance with the
jurisdiction of the federal, and several State Courts, together
The
with the admirable symmetry of our Government.
tenure of their offices enables them to pronounce the sound
and correct opinions they may have formed, without fear, faYour, or partiality. The amendment to the constitution proposed by Pennsylvania, seems to be founded upon the idea that
the fe~deral judiciary will, from a lust of power, enlarge their
jurisdiction, to the total annihilation of the jurisdiction of the
State Courts, that they will exercise their will instead of the
law and the constitution. This argument, if it proves apy thing,
would operate more strongly against the tribunal proposed to
be created, which promises so little, than against the Supreme
Court, which, for the reasons given before, have every thing
connected with their appointment, calculated to insure confidence. What security have we, were the proposed amendmiept adopted, that this tribunal would not substitute their will

359
1si.
Coliens

v.

Virginia.

860

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

siog under the constitution or laws of the United
Coh
States. And to show this, it is said that the record
Cohiens
11. speaks only of the validity of the act of Congress,
1821.

Virginia.
and their pleasure in place of the law The judiciary are the
weakest of the three departments of government, and least dan.
gerous t6 the political rights of the constitution. They hold
neither the purse nor the sword, and even to enforce their own
)udgments and decrees, must ultimately depend upon the executive arm. Should the federal judiciary, however, unmnmd.
ful of their weakness, unmindful of the duty which they-owe
to themselves and their c9untry, become corrupt, and transcend
the limits of their jurisdiction, would the proposed amendment
oppose even a probable barrier to such an improbable state of
things 9 The creation of a tribunal such as is proposed by
Pennsylvania, so far as we are enabled to form an idea of it,
from the description given in the resolutions of the legislature
of that State, would, in the opinion of your Committee, tend
rather to invite, than prevent a collision between the federal
and State Courts. It might also become, in process of time, a
serious and dangerous embarrassment to the operations of the
general Government.
Resolved, therefore, that the legislature of this State do disapprove-of the amendment to the constitution of thd United
States proposed by the legislature of Pennsylvania.
Resolved, also, that his excellency the Governor be, and is
hereby requested to transmit forthwith, a copy of the foregoing preamble and resolutions to each of the Senators and Representatives of this State, in Congress, and to the executives
of the several States in the Union, and request that the same
be laid before the legislatures thereof."
Extract from the Journal of the House of Delegates of th6
Commonwealth of Virginia
"7 ues7may, January 23, 1810. The House, according to
the order of the day, resolved itself into a committee of the
whole house on the state of the Commonwealth, and after
some time spent therein, Mr. Speaker resumed the char, and

OF THE UNITED STATES.

361

1821.
and nobody denies its validity, and therefore no
question arises under an act of Congress. But the Coheas
v.
words of the judiciary act are pursued by this writ
Viima.
cases.
other
in
been
of error, as they always have
It is the validity of the act of Congress, and the validity of the act of Virginia, as compared with it,
which are drawn into question. The Court below
decided against the first, and in favour of the last, to
the full extent of the case. The validity of the act
of Congress, means the effect attributed to it by the
defendant who sets it up as a defence against so much
of the act of the State as inflicts a penalty upon him
for doing what the act of Congress authorizes, The
defendant relies upon the act of Congress, as creating an exception in favour of his case, out of the act
of Virginia. He says it is valid, or available, or efficacious to create such an exception. That was the
question which the record shows was before the
Court below , and the Court decided that it was not
so valid, or available, or efficacious. Whether it is
so or not, is the question which the writ of error
presents for inquiry ; and it is such a question as the

Mr. Robert Stanard reported that the committee had, according to order, hid under consideration the preamble and resolutions of the select committee to whom were referred that part
of the Governor's communication which relates to the amendment proposed to the Constitution of the United States, by the
legislature of Pennsylvania, had gone through the same, and
directed him to report them to the House without amendment;
which he handed in at the clerk's table, and the question being
put on agreeing to the said preamble and resolutions, they
were agreed to by the House unanimously.
VOL. VI.

46

362

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1821.
'the

Cotiens

V.

appellate power of this Court can deal with. But
question on this motion to dismiss the writ of
error, is not whether the act of Congress is valid as
against the act of Virginia ; but whether
that question is presented by the record, so that this Court
can determine it, after it has concluded to entertain
the writ of error. It is the claim of a right, privilege, or exemption under the statute of the United
States, which.gtves the jurisdiction.a The decision
upon that claim, as it appears upon the record, is
the exercise of the jurisdiction. That the claim to
exemption appears upon the record, cannot be denied in this case more than any other. The claim
may even be an absurd one: but this Court cannot
be called upon, on a motion to dismiss the writ of
error, to condemn it as such. All argument upon
the sufficiency of the claim is prematuire, so long as
it is, sub judice, whether the -Court can examine its
sufficiency.
But it is said, that the question does not arise
under any statute of the United States, but under a
mere by-law of the City of Washington, and that
the case involves nothiig but that by-law and it is
said to be absurd to call a by-law of the City of
Washington a law of the United States. It is immaterial whether it be so or not. The by-law is the
execution of a power.given by a law of the United
States. The effect of the execution of that power,
involves the effect of the law, and although the
execution of the power is not a law of the United
a Wheat. Dig. Dec. tit. Const. Law, V (B.) 186.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

3W

States, yet that which gives the powe" is. The
1821.
question, therefore, is, not what is the mere effect
of the execution of the power in the abstract, or unv.
connected with the law which gives it, but what is Vir am.
the effect of the power by force of the law which
gives it and that question compels you to mount
up to the constitution itself.
The course of the inquiry will then be, (.) What
has the party done and what is the immediate
authority under which he did it P (2.) What is the
nature and extent of that authority what its
qualities under the law which gave it, and the constitution under which that law was passed P
If an officer of the United States does any act for
which a State Court calls him to account, and he
relies in his defence upon the authority, real or supposed, of a statute of Congress, his act is not a law
of the United States; but his defence is referred to
the effect and validity of a law of the United States,
and that is again referred to the constitution, which
is the paramount law. The last act done need not
be a law of the United States. It is sufficient, if it
is attempted to be justified, or its consequences maintamed, under a law of the United States, which it is
alleged gave to it a protecting power in the case before the Court.
It is, however, asserted, that the constitution gives
jurisdiction only in cases arising under it, or the
laws, or treaties of the United States , and that this
case does not arise under a law of the United States,
because the act of Congress now in question is not a
law of the United States. An act of the Congress,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

W4
182l.

in its capacity of local sovereign of the District 'of

'Columbia,

is said not to be a law of the United

r.

States. But whose law, then, is it P The United

Viirtgne.

States in Congress assembled, are the local sovereigns

Cohens

of the District, and' it is by them that this law is
passed. fs it less a law of the United States, because it does not operate directly upon the Union at
large-p A statute is not a law of tHe United States
on account of the subject on which it acts being
limited or unlimited. It is a law of the United
States, because it is passed by the legislative power
of the United States. The legislative authority over
the, District of Columbia, is that of the Union. Its
sphere is limited, but the power itself is even greater
than. the general federal power of the Union. It is
the power of the People and the States combmed;
exerted upon their peculiar domain. It is the same
Congress which passes both description of laws.
The question, whether the law operates beyond the
District, is the question upon the merits hereafter to
be discussed.
Again; it is said, that the by-law alone is in question, and not the act of Congress" because the bylaw is not passed by virtue of the act of Congress,
but by virtue of the inherent power of the people of
the District to govern themselves. The act of Congress only calls this inherent power into action: and
thb inherent power, when so called into action, is
the onuy power which this Court can deal with. The
fallacy of this argument consists in its confounding
inherent power with an inherent capacity to receive
Dower. The subordinate legislative power of the

S65

OF THE UNITED STATES.

territories and Districts, which belong to the Union
in full sovereignty, is not their power, but that of
their superior. But admit this abstract doctrine of

Ceohenx

inherent power - the question still recurs, what is the

VWMI.

constitutional-effect of th power being excited into
action-by the paramount power. The action of the
inherent power will still depend upon the power by
which it is set in motion, and what it can, or cannot do, under that impulse, is just the same questiou
with the other.
It is also objected, that a law 6inanating from the
local power, of Congress over- the D'strict-of Columbia, cannot bind the Jnion. But whether it cali or
not is the very question to be determined, when the
merits come to be discussed; which the writ of
error gives authority to decide, and which cannot
be decided without entertaining the -writ of error.
The argument on the other side, proceeds in a vitious
circle. It is asserted, that you must quash the writ
of error, because you have no jurisdiction over the
case or question. It is, then, said, that you must,
take jurisdiction of, and inquire into, the case and
the question, in order that you may dismiss the writ
of error. or, in other words, you have, and you
have not, jurisdiction over the case and'question,
and you ought to decide them in order to see that
you ought not to decide them. And here again the
supposed absurdity of the claim of protection, by the
defendant on the record, against the act of Virginia,
is urged to authorize a refusal to inquire upon the
writ of error, whether it is absurd or not.

1821.

V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
4821.

Cohens

v.

Virginia.

3. The next ground of objection to thejurisdiction
is, that the writ of error is itself a suit against a
State by a citizen of that or some other State. And
Bac. Abr. tzt. Error, (L.)'is cited as an authority to
show that a release of all suits is a release of a writ
of error. But, even admitting that it may sometimes
be technically called a suit, it is not such a suit as is
contemplated by the constitution. A writ of error,
where a party is to be restored to something, may be
released by a release of all suits or actions, because
in this respect it resembles an action. But this writ
of error is not a suit, because the party is not to be
restored to any thing. A reversal of the judgment
below -will leave things just as they were before the
judgment. But the State of Virginia is not compel.
led to come into this Court by the writ of error. A
citation, or scirefaczas ad audiendum errores, is only
notice to the State, leaving it at her option voluntarily to appear. It does not act compulsorily upon
the State. It acts upon the Court, which she has
used as the instrument to enforce her law. A case
is presented by the interference of the judiciary of
the State, for the interposition of the appellate
power of this Court. The object is to reverse the
judgment, and that done, there is an end of the exercise of-power. The United States are liable to the
same coercion. They may be called before this
Court in the same manner, and the judgments obtamed in their favour may be reversed. And is it
then derogatory to the sovereignty of a particular
State, that its judgments should be liable to be. controlled in the same manner, in cases within the ju-

OF THE .UNITED STATES.

dicial power of the Union P This control is exerted
upon the judiciary; upon the judgments of the judiciary. The State is incidentally affected, but
that has been already determined in this Court to
be immaterial.a Nor is this sort of control more exceptionable than that which is constantly exercised,
in suits between private parties, over the acts of the
State legislatures and executives., upon the same
ground of their repugnancy to the constitution and.
laws of the Union.
If it be asked whether you can give costs against.
the State, and enforce the. payment; the answer is,
that you cannot do so in any case upon a mere reversal of a judgment. And even if you could in a
case between private parties, is it-any objection to
the appellate jurisdiction of this Court, where the
United States are plaintiffs below, that you cannot
award and enforce the payment of costs against
them P It is not-jurisdiction over the State of Virginia that is claimed, but over a question arising
under the laws of that State,. and over the judgments of her Courts construing those laws. This
point is incidentally touched in Mart-in v Hunter, in
considering the question as to removal of suits, before judgment, and it is there said by the Court that
the remedy of removal of suits would be utterly inadequate to the purposes of the constitution, if it
could act only on the parties, and not upon the
,Sate Courts.'
a Wheat. Dig. Dec. tit. Const. Low, V. (C.) 211.
a 1 Wlwat. Rep. 350.

367
1821..
'
Cobens
v.
Virgima-

CASES IN THE. SUPREME COURT

i8l2
'

'
Cohors

V.

Virgim.

4. Lastly. It is insisted, for.the defendant in error,
that. this Court has no jurisdiction in the present
case, because a State is a party to the original controversy which the writ of error brings before the
Court That the .jurqsdiction, of this Court in all
cases, where a State.as.aparty,.is orngral,and therefore it cannot have app.ellate.jurisdictiou in this case.
The obvious answer .to .thi. argument is, that -the
jurisdiction now claimed does not arise under that
part of the constitution which gives original .. uris.
diction to the Supreme Court in cases in which a
State is a party, but the jurisdiction is asserted
under.that clause which gives the federal judiciary
Cognizance of all cases arising under the constitu.fin,laws, and treaties of the United States, w.1thout
.regard.to the character of the- parties. In this lattet
elas of cases the Supreme Court has appellate jurisdiction. In some of this description of cases, the
jurisdiction could not be originally exercised. The
penal laws of'a State cannot be originally enforced,
.or-enforced at all, by a judicature of the Union.
They cannot therefore form the subjects of, or create
subjects for, its original jurisdiction. The Courts
-of the United States can here exert only a controling or restraining power for the. protection of the
rights of the Union, and this can only be done by
ppea or writ of error. This view of the subject is
takexi.in Martin v. Hunter. The Court there says,
Suppose an indictment, for a crime in a State
Court, and the defendant should allege in his defence, that the crime was committed by an expost
facto act of the State:, must not .the State Court, im

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1821.
the exercise ofajurisdiction which has already rightfully attached, have a right to pronounce on the Cohens
V.
It would
sufficiency and validity of the defence
Virgina.
to
principles,
legal
any
be extremely difficult, upon
give a negative answer to these inquiries. Innumerable instances of the same sort might be stated in
illustration of the position, and unless the State
Courts could sustain junsdiction in such cases, this
clause of the sixth article would be without meaning
or effect, and public mischiefs of a most.enormous
magnitude would inevitably ensue. " " So the Court
afterwards say, in the context of the passage before
cited, speaking of the inadequacy, of the remedy of
removal of suits to accomplish the purposes -of the
constitution, in respect to criminal prosecutions.
the difficulty seems admitted to be insurmountable,"ib
&c. What difficulty ? The difficulty, of controlling
them by the Courts of the United States without the
aid of a writ of error, because those Courts could
take no original cognizance of this description of
cases, and they could not be removed before judgment. As, then, the federal Courts have no original
jurisdiction of cases arising merely under the constitution, laws, and treaties of the Union, it follows,
that the clause of the constitution which speaks of
cases in which a State shall be a party, does not
apply to it. and the appellate power, now in question, is to be sought for in that part of the same article which declares, that the judicial power of the
Union shall extend to all cases arising under the
b 1 Wheat. Rep. 350.

a 1 0/7wat. Rep. 341.
VOL. VI.

47

370
1821.
Cobens

v.
Virginia.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

constitution, laws, and treaties of the Union, coupled with the subsequent provision, which declares,
that in all cases to which that judicial power extends, this Court shall have appellate, where it has
not orqinal jurisdiction, with such exceptions, and
under such regulations as Congress may prescribe.
That it has appellate jurisdiction in all cases arising
under the constitution, laws, and treaties of the United States, is established by the authority of the case
of Martin v Hunter" and that this appellate power
is competent to control the State Courts, is also
proved, by that case.8 There is, therefore, no open
question but this, does the fact of a State being a
party prosecutor in the State Court, make this case
an excepti6a, and take it out of the general rule ?
Upon the plai , policy and purpose of the constitution
it does not. This jurisdiction has already been
shown to be different in its nature from the original
jurisdiction ,which was exercised over States before
the amendment of the constitution. But that other
jurisdiction will go far to show, that there is nothing
unnatural in giving appellate power over State
Courts in cases where a State is a party plainuff.
The constitution authorized direct coercion over
States or private citizens indifferently. The amendment has partly taken this away, but the spirit of
the constitution is still manifested by the former provision.. The same constitution also authorized appellate control over State Courts; and is it natural
that it should condemn the same control, merely bea I Weat. Rep. 304.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

cause a State has obtained the judgment to be revised P The constitution had no delicacy with regard to States on this matter. It considered them
as directly amenable where original jurisdiction can
be exerted. Why not empower its tribunals to affect
their interests in an appellate form, by acting, not on
the State, but on its Courts, as unquestionably it
does in all cases where individuals are parties below P
The appellate power is trifling, compared with the
original as it formerly stood and a constitution
which gave the last could have no scruples about the
first. The appellate control is respectful to the State
sovereignties compared with the original, and it
stands upon high considerations of self defence, upon
grounds of constitutional necessity not applicable to
the other. The suability of the States might have
been dispensed with, and the%constitution still be
safe. But the judicial control of the Union over
State encroachments and usurpations, was indispensable to the sovereignty of the constitution-to its
integrity-to its very existence. Take it away, and
the Union becomes again a loose and feeble confederacy-a government of false and foolish confedence-a delusion and a mockeryI Why is it in
cases, in which individuals are parties in a State
Court, that. the judgment may be revisal in this
Court P Because the judiciary of the Union ought
to possess ample power to preserve the consntution,
and laws, and treaties of the Union, from violation
by other judicatures. Its judicial powers should be
commensurate with its other powers, and rights, and
prerogatives. They might else be evaded and

1821.
Cohens

v.

Virguna.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

372

trampled under foot by judicatures. in which the
a motive
constitution does not confide. This high
Cohens
State
is
plaintiff
or
v.
is as strong, at least, where a
Viviua. prosecutor in its own Courts, as where it is not.
Indeed, it is far stronger, for all the motives to judicial leanings and partialities here operate in their
fullest force, though the State judges may not be
conscious of their influence. The sovereignty of
thie State law-State pride-State interests-are
here in paramount vigour as inducements to error
and judicial usurpation is countenanced by legislative
support and popular prejudice. Let the Court look
to the consequences of this distincuon. A State
passes a law repugnant to the national constitution.
It gives a remedy in the name of an individual-a
common informer. You may control this law, if the
State judiciary acts upon it. But the State may
avoid this (as it seems) by authorxzing the remedy
in its own name; and you thus lose your protectingjurisdiction over the subject, although you' might still
exercise it, as in the other case, in the inoffiensive
mode of confining your control to the State judiciary. The whole constitution of the Union might
-thus be overturned unless force should be resorted
to: and the object of the constitution was to avoid
force, by giving ordinary judicial power of correction..
It has been said that a-wsovereign State of the
Union is not amenable to judicature, unless made so
by express words---eo novizne. I deny this as respects appellate jurisdiction, which acts, not on the
State, but on its Courts. The words of the consti821.

OF THE UNITED STATES

$73

tution are sufficiently express, and all reason is on
1s2.
be
admittedi
"
'
since
it
is,
or
must
that side especially
that these Courts may be thus controlled, and the lev.
Virertz)
through
reached
be
State
tue
of
power
gislative
them, and controlled also* and especially too, when
the constitution has -notscrupled, in other cases, to
subject the States to direct control.
But it is contended, that there are cases arising
under the constitution and laws of the Union, which,
from their very nature, are not the subjects ofjudicial cQgnizance, and consequently are exceptions out
of the general grant of judicial power under the constitution, such as the prohibition to the States to
grant titles of nobility, &c." and that the present
case may be such an exception. But the very supposition admits, that if the case in question is suited
to the exertion of judicial power, it is not an exception. and the moment a State judiciary intervenes,
judicial jurisdiction can, and ought to be exerted. It
is unnecessary to inquire how the case must, in general, exist, in order to become the proper object of
judicial cognizance, for here it does exist in a proper shape for that purpoe,. A State Court has intervened, and the regular appellate power of this
Court may act. Nor does the proof of some exeep.
tions arising from necessity, establish other exceptions free from that necessity. Many unlawful.
things cannot be restrained by judicature* but does
it follow that where they can be restrained, they
shall not P
Again It is said that the States may destroy the
federal Government at their pleasure, merely by for-

8.74
1821.
Cohens

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

bearng tb elect Senators, and to provide for the election of a President and Representatives, and that the

v.
authority of the Union Is incompetent to coerce
Virna. them.. Such extreme arguments prove nothing to

the present purpose but suppose the States could
not be coerced in such a case to do their dutyj because no intervening Court or agent is necessary to
the accomplishment of such a desperate purpose,
does this -prove that you cannot defensively control
active violations of the constitution -or laws, when a
controllable judicature or agent intervenes to perpetrate these violatons P
It is also said, that this is a prosecution under a
penal statute, and that criminal cases peculiarly belong to the domestic forum. The answer is, that
so was the case of M'Culoch v. Maryland, a qui
tam action, under a penal law of- that State, giving
one -half of the penalty to the State, and the other
half to the informer ; yet this Court did not consider
the nature of the suit, or the circumstance of a State
being a party, as forming a valid objection to the
jurisdiction.' Nobody objects to a State enforcing
its own penal laws all that is claimed is, that
in executing them, it should not violate the laws
of the Union, which are paramount -Sic utere tuo
ut alienum non kcdas.
The other suppositions which have been stated of
bills of attainder and ex postfacto laws passed by the
*States, and attempted to be executed, but decided
by this Court to be unconstitutional, and yet the
a 4 Wheat. Rep. 316.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

State Courts persisting in carrying them into effect,
even in capital cases, are too wild and extravagant,
to illustrate any question which can ever practically
arise.

1821.
Cohens

arise.Virgima.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion mam
of the Court.
This is a writ of error to a judgment rendered in
the Court of Hustings for the borough of Norfolk,
on an information for selling lottery tickets, contrary
to an act of the Legislature of Virginia. In the
State Court, the defendant claimed the protection
of an act of Congress. A case was agreed between
the parties, which states the act of Assembly on
Which the prosecution was founded, and the act of
Congress on which the defendant relied, and concludes in these words. "If upon this case the Court
shall be of opinion that the acts of Congress before
mentioned were valid, and, on the true constructionl
of those acts, the lottery tickets sold by the defendants as aforesaid, might lawfully be sold within the
State of Virginia, notwithstanding the act or statute
of the general assembly of Virginia prohibiting such
sale, then judgment to be entered for the defendants: And if the Court should be of opinion that
the statute or act of the General Assembly of the
State of Virginia, prohibiting such sale, is valid,
notwithstanding the said acts of Congress, then
judgment to be entered that the defendants are
guilty, and that the Commonwealth, recove against
them one hundred dollars and costs."

V.

3d.

376

CASES. IN THE SUPREME COURT

Judgment was rendered against the defendants;
and the Court in which it was rendered being the
Cohens
highest Court of the State in which the cause was
V.
rina. cognizable, the record has been brought into this
1821.

Court by writ of error.0

The defendant in error moves to dismiss this writ,
for want of jurisdiction.
In support of this motion, three points have been
made, and argued with the ability which the importance of the question merits. These points
areIst; That a State is a defendant.
2d. That no writ of error lies from this Court to
a State Court.
3d. The third point has been presented in different forms by the gentlemen who have argued it.
The counsel who opened the cause said, that the
want of jurisdiction was shown by the subject matter of the case. The counsel who followed him
said, that-jurisdiction was not given by the judiciary
act. The Court has bestowed all its attention on
the arguments of both gentlemen, and supposes that
their tendency is to show that this Court has no jarisdiction of the case, or, in other words, has no
right to review the judgment of the State Court,
because neither the constitution nor any law of the
United States has been violated by that judgment.
The questions presented to the Court by the two
a-The plaintiff in error prayed an appeal from the judgment
of the Court of Hustings, but it was refused, on the. ground
that there was no higher State tribunal which could take cogmzance of the case.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

377

ismz.
first points made at the bar are of great magnitude,
and may be truly said vitally to affect the Union. Cohens
V.
They exclude the inquiry whether the constitution
and laws of the United States have been violated Virgia.
by the judgment which the plaintiffs in error seek to
review, and maintain that, admitting such violation, it is not in the power of the government to
apply a corrective. They maintain that the nation
does not possess a department capable of restraining
peaceably, and by authority of law, any attempts
which may be made, by a part, against the legitimate powers of the whole, and that the government
is reduced to the alternative of submitting to such
attempts, or of resisting them by force. They maintam that the constitution of the United States has
provided no tribunal for the final construction of -itself, or of the,laws or treaties of the nation; but that
this power may be exercised in the last resort by
the Courts of every State in the Union. That the
constitution, Jaws, and treaties, may receive as many
constructions as there are States , and that this is not
a mischief, or, if a mischief, is irremediable. These
abstract propositions are to be determined; for he
who demands decision without permitting inquiry,
affirms that the decision he asks does not depend on
inquiry.
If such be the constitution, it is the duty of the
Court to bow with respectful submission to its provisions. If such be not the constitution, it is equally
the duty of this Court to say so, and to perform that
task which the American people have assigned to
the judicial department.
VOL. VI.

48

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

378

1st. The first question to be considered is, whe,
ther the junsdicton of this Court is excluded by.the
character of the parties, one of them being a State,
and the other a citizen of that StateP

2Z .
Cohens'

v.
Virginia.

The urie.
tliOn

of

thth

The second section of the third artile of the COw.
stitution-defines the extent of the judicial power of
ry Act of 1789.
20.; is .not
Jurisdiction is given -to the
excluded
by the United States.
thedrcd-hm- Courts of the Union in two classes of cases.
In
Court, under
the 25th sectioxx
or the Judicia.

Stance

of the

the
one partier,be

oneaStat n
tie of

State.

atht

' tir jurisdiction depends on the eharacter
st,
of the-cause, whoever may be the -parties This
class comlrehends "all cases in law and equityansing" under-.this constitution, the-laws of the United
States, and treaties made, or which shall be made,
undertheir authority."- This clause extends the junsdiction of the Court to all the cases described,
without maiking in its terms any exception -whatever,
and without any regard.to .the condition of the party.
--If there be any exception, it is- to be implied against
the express words of the article.
In the- second class, -thejurisdiction depends- entirely on the character of the parties. In this are
comprehended "controversies between two or more
States, between a State and citizens of another
State," " and between a State and foreign States,
citizens or. subjects." If these be the parties, it is
entirely unimportant what may be the subject of
controversy. Be it what it may, these parties have a
constitutional right to come into the .Courts of the
Union.
The-counsel for the defeiilant in error have sta•-ted. that the cass' which aiise underthe eonstitution
must grow out of those provisions -which, ate capa-

OF THE UNITED. STATES.
1s21.
ble of seff-execution, examples of which are -to be
found in the 2d section of the 4th articleand in, the Cohens
V.
10th section of the 1st article.
A case which arises under a law of the -United Y rguu,
States must, we are likewise told, be a right given
by some act which becomes necessary to execute
the powers given in the. constitution, of which the

law of naturalization is mentioned as an example.
The use intended to be made-of this exposition of
the first part of the section, defining the extent of the
judicial power, is not clearly understood. .If the iiitention be merely to distinguish cases arising uilder
the constitution, from those ari~ing under a law, for
the sake of precision in theapplication of this argument, these propositions will not be controverted. .If
it be to maintain that a case ariswg.under the 'constitution, or a law, must be one in which a party
comes into Court to demand something conferred on
him by the copstitution or a law, we think the construction too narrow. A case in law, or equity consists of the right of the one party, as well as of the
other, and may truly be said to arise under the constitution or a law of the United States, whenever
its correct decision depends on the construction of
either. Congress seems to have intended to give
its own construction of this part of the constitution
in the 25th section of the judiciary act , and we perceive no reason to depart from that construction.
The jurisdiction of the Court,. then, being extended by the letter of the d&nstitution to all cases
arising under it,. or under the laws of the United
States, it follows-that those who would withdraw

3So
'Cobens

any case of this. description from that jurisdiction,
must sustain the exemption they claim on the spirit

V.

and true meaning of the constitution, which spirit

VIUVIn..

and true meaning must be so apparent as to overrule

1821.
'

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the words which its framers have employed.
The counsel for the defendant in error have undertaken to do this ; and have .-laid .down. the general
proposition, that a sovereign indepedent State-is not
suable, except by its own consent.
This general proposition will .not. be controverted.
But its consent is not requisite in each particular
case. It may he given in a. general law. And if a
State has surrendered any portion of its.sovereignty,
the quiestion whether a liability to suit be a part of
this portion, depends on the instrument by which the
surrender is made. If. upon h just construction of
that instrument, it shall appear that. the State has
submitted to be sued, then it has parted with this
soyereign right of judging in every case on the jus,
tice of its own pretensions, and has entrusted that
power to a tribunal in whose impartiality it confides.
The American States, as well as the American
people, have believed a close and firm Union to be
essential to their liberty and to their happiness.
They. have been taught by experience, that this
Union cannot exist without a government for the
whole; and they haye been taught by the same experience that this government would be a mere'shadow, that must disappoint all their hopes, unless invested with-It e portions of that sovereignty wbich
belongs to independent States. Under the influence
of-this opinion, and thus instucted by experience,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ti American people, in the conventions of their respective States, adopted the present constitution.
If it eould be doubted, whether from its nature, it

were not supreme in all cases where it is empowered
to act, that doubt Would be removed by the declaration,. that "this constitution, and the laws of the
United States, which shall be made in pursuance
thereof, and all. treaties made, or which shall be
made,.under the authority of the United States, shall
be the supreme law of the. land ; and the judges in
every State shall be bound thereby, any tbing in
the constitution or laws of any State to the contrary
notwithstanding;"
This is the authoritative language of the American
people, and, if gentlemen please, of the American
States. It marks, with lines too strong to be mistaken, the characteristic distinction between the government of the Union, and those of the States.
The general government, though limited as to its
objects, is supreme with respect to those objects.
This principle is a part of the -constitution., and if
there be any who deny its necessity, none can deny
its authority.
To this supreme government ample powers are
confided, and if it were possible to doubt the great
purposes for which they were so confided, the people of the United States have declared, that they are
given " in order to form a more perfect union,
establishjustice, ensure domestic tranquillity, provide
for tihe common defence, promote the general welfare, and secure the.blessings of libefty to themsdlves
and, their posterity."

1891.
Cohens

V.

Virgim

382

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

With the ample powers confided to this supreme
these interesting purposes, are conCohens Sgovernment,-for
v.
nected many express and important limitations on
Virgmm. the sovereignty of the States, which are made for
1821.

the same-purposes. The powers of the Union, on
the great subjects-of war, peace, and commerce, and
on many others, are in themselves limitations of the
sovereignty of the. States, but in addition to these,
the -sovereignty of the States is surrendered in many
instances where the surrender can only operate to the
enefit of the people, and where, perhaps, no other
power is conferred on Congress than a conservative
power to maintain the principles established in the
constitution. The maintenance of these principles
in.their-purity, is .certainly among the great duties
of the. government. One of the. instruments by
which this duty may be peaceably performed, is the
.judicial department. It is authoritl to decide all
cases of every desciiption, arising undetr the consttution or laws of the United States. TFom this
general.grant of junsdictibn, no exception is made
of those cases In. which 'a State may be & party.
Wheal we consider the situation of the geyerament
of the Union. and of a State, in relatior to eavlt
oiler, the nature of bur constitution , the subordina,
tion of the State governments to th'at constitution ;
the great purpose for whieh jurisdiction over all
qa.se§ arising under the constitution and laws of Tue
United Siates, is confided to the judicial departmeit;
•ar6 we at liberty, to insert -in this general gran, an
exception of th6sw cases in which-a State may be a

OF THE UNITED -STATES.

383

1821.
Will the spirit of the constitution justify this
will
not.
it
think
P
We
its
words
httempt to control
Cohens
v.
We think a case arising under the constitution or
Virginia.
the
in
cognizable
is
States,
laws of the Ubited
Courts of the Union, whoever may be the parties to
that case.
Had any aoubt existed with respect to the just
construction of this part of the section, that doubt
would have been removed by the enumeration of
those cases to which the jurisdiction of the federal
Courts is exteilded, in consequence of the character
of the parties. In that enumeration, we find "controversies between two or more States, between a
State and citizens of another State," " and between
a State and foreign'States, citizens, or stibjects."
One of the express objects, then, for which the
judicial department was established, is the decision
of controversies between States, and between a
State. and individuals. The mere circumstance, that
a State is a party, gives jurisdiction to the Court.
How, then, can it be contended, that the very same
instrument, in the very same section, should be so
construed, as that this same circumstance should
withdraw a case from thejurisdiction of the Court,
where the constitution- or laws of the United States
are supposed to have been violated P *The constitution gave to every person. having a claim upon a
State, a right to submit.his case to the Court of'the
nation. However unimportant his claim might be,
however little the community might be interested m
its decision, .the framers of .ourconstitution thought
it necessary for the purposes of justice, to provide a

partyP

384

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1821.
Cohens

V.

Virginm.

tribunal as superior to influence as possible, in which
Sthat

claim might be decided.

Can it be imagined,

that the same persons considered a case involving the
constitution of our country and the majesty of the
laws, questions in which every American citizen
must be deeply interested, as withdrawn from this
tribunal, because a State is a party P
While weighing arguments drawn from the nature
of government, and from the general spirit of an instrument, and urged for the purpose of narrowing the
construction which the words of that instrument
seem to require, it is proper to place in the opposite
scale those principles, drawn from the same sources,
which go to sustain the words in their full operation
and natural import. One of these, which has been
pressed with great force by the counsel for the plaintiffs in error, is, that the judicial power of every well
constituted government must be co-extensive with
the legislative, and must be capable of deciding every
judicial question which grows out of the constitution
and laws.
If any proposition may be considered as a politi.cal axiom, this, we think, may be so considered.
In reasoning upon it as an abstract question, there
would, probably, exist no contrariety of opinion respecting it. Every argument, proving the necessity
of the department, proves also the propriety of giving
this extent to it. We do not mean to say, that the
jurisdiction of the Courts of the Union should be
construed to be co-extensive with the legislative,
merely because it is fit that it should be so; but we
mean to say, that this fitness furnishes an argument

OF THE UNITED STATES.

in construing the constitution which ought never to

1821.

lie overlooked, and which is most especially entitled Cohens
V.
to consideration, when we are inquiring, whether
Virginia.
esto
purport
which
the words of the instrument
tablish this principle, shall be contracted for the purpose of destroying it.
The mischievous consequences of the construction
contended for on the part of Virginia, are also entitled to great consideration. It would prostrate, it
has been said, the government and its laws at the
feet of every State in the Union. And would not
this be its effect P What power of the government
could be executed by its own means, in any State
disposed to resist its execution by a course of legislation P The laws must be executed by individuals
acting within the several States. If these individuals
may be exposed to penalties, and if the Courts of
the Union cannot correct the judgments by which
these penalties may be enforced, the course of the
government may be, at any time, arrested by the
will of one of its members. Each member will possess a veto on the will of the whole.
The answer which has been given to this argument, does not deny its truth, but insists that confidence is reposed, and may be safely reposed, in the
State institutions , and that, if they shall ever become so insane or so wicked as to seek the destruction of the government, they may accomplish their
object by refusing to perform the functions assigned
to them.
We readily concur with the counsel for the deVOt VI.

49

CASES IN THE'STPREMlE COURT
1821.

-Coliens
VAirgima.

fendant, in the declaration, that the cases which have
been put of direct legislative resistance for the purpose of opposing the acknowjedged powers of the
go.vernm nt, are extreme .cases, and in the hope, that
they will iever occur; but we cannot help believing,
that a general conviction of the total mcapacity.of
the.government to protect itself and its laws-in.such
cases, would contribute in no inconsiderable degree
to their vcurrence.
Let it be admitted, that.the cases which have been
put are extreme and improbablej yet-there are gradations of opposition to th1e laws, far-short of those
cases, which might have a baneful influence.-on the
affirs of the nation. Differpnt States may entertain
different opinions on the true construction of the
constitutional powers of Congress. We know, that
at one time, ti e assumption of the -debts contracted
by-the severa' States, during the war qf our revolution, was deemed unconstitutional-by some-of them.
**&know, too, that at other times, certain taxes, Imposed by Congross, have been pronounced unconstitutional. Other laws have been questioned -partial1y, while they were supported bythe great majority
of the American people. We have-no assurance that
we shall be less divided than we have been. States
may legislate. in conformity to their opinions, and
may enforce those opinions by- penalties. It.would
be hazarding too much to assert, that the judicatures
of the States will be exempt from the prejudices by
which-the legislatures and peonile are influenced, and
will constitute perfectly impartial tribunals. In
many States the judges are dependent for office and

OF THE UNITED STArPES.

S81

1821.
for salary on the will of the legislature. The constitution of the United States furnishes no security ty Cohens
V.
against the universal adoption of this principle.
Vigibla.
constthat
which
When we observe the importance
tution attaches to the independence of judges, we are
the less inclined to suppose that it can have. intended to leave these conitifutin-'A questions to tribunals
where this independence may not exist, in all cases
where a State shall prosecute an individual who
claims the protection of an act of Congress. These
prosecutions may take place even without a legislative act. A person making a seizure under an act
of Congress, may be indicted as a trespasser, if force
has been employed, and of this a jury may judge.
How extensive may be the mischief if the first decisions in such cases should be final'
These collisions may take place in times of no
extraordinary commotion. But a constitutton is
framed for ages to come, aad is designed to approach
immortality as nearly as human institutions can approach it. Its course cannot always be tranquil. It
is exposed to storms and tempests, and its framers
must be unwise statesmen indeed, if they have not
provided it, as far as its nature will permit,- with the
means of self-preservation from the -perils it nmayibe
destined to encounter. No government ought to-be
so defective in its organization, as not to- confalin
within itself the means of securing the execution.of
ats own laws against other dangers than those
which occur every day. Courts of justice are the
means most.usually employed; and .it is reasonable
to expect that a government should 'repose on its

388
1821.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

own Courts, rather than on others. There is cernothing in the circumstances under which our
constitution was formed , nothing in the history of
the. times, which would justify the opinion that the

Stainly

Virrna,

confidence reposed in the States was so implicit as
to leave in them and their -tribunals the power of resisting or defeating, in the form of law, the legitimate
measures of the Union. The requisitions of Congress, -under the confederation, were as constitutionally obligatory as the laws enacted by the. present
Congress. That they were habitually disregarded,
is a fact of universal notoriety. With: the knowledge
of this fact, and under its full pressure, a conventiou
was assembled to change the system. Is i.t so improbable that they should confer on the judicial-department the power of construing the constitution
and laws-of the Union-n every case, in the last resort, and of preserving them from all violation from
every quarter, so far as j*udicial decisions can preserve them, that this improbability should essentially
affect the construction of the new system P We are
told, and we.:are truly told, that the great. change
which is to-give efficaey to the present system, is its
ability to act on individuals directly,,instead. of acting through the instrumentality -of State governments. But, ought not this ability, in reason and
sound policy, to be applied directly to the protection of individuals employed in the execution of the
laws, as well as to their coercion. Your laws reach
the individual without the aid of any other power,
why may they not protect him from punishment foi
performing his duty in executing them?

OF THE UNITED STATES.

.The counsel for Virginia endeavour to obviate the
force of these arguments by saying, that the dangers
they suggest, if not imaginary, are inevitable , that
against them,
the constitition can make no provision
and. that, therefore, in construing that- instrument,
they ought to be excluded from our consideration,
This.stato of things, they say, cannot arise.until
there shall -be a disposition so hostile to the present
political system as to produce a determination to
destroy it, and, when that deternination shah be
produced, its effects will not be restrained by- parchment. stipulations. The fate of the constitution will
not then depend on judicial decisions. But, should
no appeal be made to force, the States can put an
eid to the government "by refusing to act. They
have only not to elect Senators, and it expires without a:struggle.It is very truJ that, Whenever hogtility to the exitiig system shall become universal, it will be also
irresistible. The people made the constitution, and
the people can unmake it. It is the creature of 1heir
will, and lives only by their will. But this supreme
and irresistible power to make or to unmake, resides
only in, the whole body of the people, not in any
sub-divisiou of them. The attempt of any of the
parts to exercise it is usurpation, and ought to be repelled by those to whom the people have delegated
their power of repelling it.
The acknowledged inability of the government,
then. -to sustain itself against the public will, and,
by force or otherwise, to control the whole nation,
A no sound argunment in support of its constitutional

1821.

'
Cohen
Y
Virgifla.

CASES I N THE, SUPREME. COURT

inability to preserve itself against a section of the
nation acting in opposition to the general will.
Cohens
It is true, that if all the States, or a majority of
V.
Virgaa. them, refuse to elect Senators, the legislative powers
1821.

Cobens

of the Union will be suspended. But if any one
State shall refuse to elect them, the Senate will not,
on that account, be the less capable of performing all
its functions. The argument founded on this fact
would seem rather to prove the subordination of the
parts to the whole, than the complete independence
of any one of them. The framers of the constitution were, indeed, unable to make any provisions
which should protect that instrument against a general combination of the States, or of the .people,
for its destruction, and, conscious of this inability.
they have not made the attempt. But they were
able to provide against -the operation of measure.
adopted in any one State, whose tendency might bE
to arrest the execution of the laws, and this it wat
the part of truef wisdom -to attempt. We think the3
have attempted it.
It has been also urged, as an additional objectioi
to the jurisdiction of the Court, that cases between.
State and one of its own citizens, do not come with
in the general scope of the constitution; and wer,
obviously never intended to be 'made cogmzable it
the federal Courts. The State tribunals might b
suspected of partiality in cases between itself or it
citizens and aliens, or the citizens of another State
but not in proceedings by a State against its own ci
tizens. That jealousy which might exist in th
first case, could not exist in the last, and therefor
the judicial power is not extended to the last.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

This is very true, so far as jurisdiction depends on
1821.
the character of the parties, and the argument
Cohens
would have great force if urged to prove that this
v.
Court could not establish the demand of a citizen Virgima.
upon his State, but is not entitled to the same force
when urged to prove that this Court cannot inquire
whether the constitution or laws of the United
States protect a citizen from a prosecution instituted
against him by a State. If jurisdiction depended
entirely on the character of the parties, and was not
given where the parties have not an original'right to
come into Court, that part of the 2d section of the
3d article, which extends the judicial power to all
eases arising under the constitution and laws of the
United States, would be mere surplusage. It -is to
give jurisdiction where the character of the parties
would not give it, that this very important part of
the..clause was inserted. It may be true, that the
partiality of the State tribunals, in ordinary controversies between a State and its citizens, was not apprehended, and therefore the judicial power of the
Union. was not extended to such cases, but this was
not the sole. nor the greatest object for which this
department was created.
A more important, a
much more interesting object, was the preservation
of the constitution and. laws of the United States, so
far as they can be preserved by judicial authority,
and therefore the jurisdiction of the Courts of
the Union was expressly extended to all cases
arising under that constitution and those laws,
If the constilution or laws may be violated by pro-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

ceedings instituted by a State against its own citizens, and if that violation may be such as essentially
V.
to
affect the constitution and the laws, such as to
Vitma.
arrest the progress of government in its constitutional course, why should these cases be excepted
from that provision which expressly extends the judicial power of the Union to all cases arising under
the constitution and laws P
After bestowing on this subject the most attentive consideration, the Court can perceive no reason
founded on the character of the parties for introducing an exception which the constitution has not
made, and we think that the judicial power, as
originally given, extends to all cases arising under
the constitution or a law of the United States, whoever may be the parties.
•he rstills It has been also contended, that this jurisdiction,
1821.

Court in all cae B s,,,g U,,.
der the consfi-

if given, is original, and cannot be exercised i the
KZ-,
tatioN,
atid treaties of appellate form.
The words of the constitution are, "in all cases
the Uni6n,
Wbere a State
is a party, may affecting ambassadors, other public ministers, and
be exercised in
tbrmappellate consuls, and those in which a State shall bea-party,
the Supreme Court shall have original jurisdiction.
In all the other cases before mentioned, the Supreme
Court shall have appellate jurisdiction."
This distinction between original and appellate
jurisdiction, excludes, we are.told, in all cases, the
exercise of the one where the other is given.
The constitution gives the Supreme Court original
jurisdiction in certain enumerated cases, and gives it
appellate jurisdiction in all others. Among those in
which jurisdiction must be exercised in the appellate

OF THE UNITED STATES.

form, are cases arising under the constitution and
laws of the United States. These provisions of the
constitution are equally obligatory, and are to be
equally respected.

If a State be a party, the juris-

diction of this Court is original, if the case arise
under a constitution or a law, the junsdiction is appellate. But a case to which a State ts a party may
arise under the constitution or a law of the United
States. What rule is applicable to such a caseP
What, then, becomes the duty of the Court P Certainly, we think, so to construe the constitution as to
give effect to both provisions, as far as it is possible
to reconcile them, and not to permit their seeming
repugnancy to destroy each other. We must endeavour so to construe them as to preserve the true intent
and meaning of the instrument.
In one description of cases, the jurisdiction of the
Court is founded entirely on the character of the
parties, and the nature qf the controversy is not
contemplated by the constituton. The character of
the parties is every thing, the nature of the case nothing. In the other description of cases, the jurisdiction is founded entirely on the character of the
case, and the parties are not contemplated by the
constitution. In these, the nature of the case is every
thing, thocharacter of the parties nothing. When,
then, the constitution declares the jurisdiction, in
cases where a State shall be a party, to be original,
and in all cases arising under the constitution or a law,.
to be appellate.-the conclusion seems irresistible,
that its framers designed to include in the first class
VOL. VI.

so

393.
1821.
Coliens

V.

59"

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

.those cases in which jurisdiction is given, because a
SState.
isa -party, and to include in the second, those
Cohens
v.
in. which.jurisdicton.is'given, because.the case arises
V.irDm under the constitution, or a law.
This reasonable construction is rendered necessary
by other considerations.
That the constitution or a law of the Umted
$tates)-i involved in a.case, and makes a part of it,
may. appear in the progress of a.cause, in which the
Courts of the Union, hut for that circumstance,
would. have no jurisdiction, and which of consequence could -not originate in the Supreme Court.
Insucha case, the jurisdiction can.be exercised only
in its appellate form.. To deny its exercise in this
form is to deny its existence, and would be to construe a"clause,, dividing the power of the, Supreme
Coqrt, iin such manneras ina considprable degree to
defeat the power itself. All must percive, that this
construction- can be justified only where .it is absolutely -neqessary. We do not think the article under
consideration presents that-necessity.
It is observable, that in this distributive clause, no
negative words;are introdu-ed. This observation is
not made- for the purpose of contending, that the
legislature may. " apportion the judicial power between, the Supreme and inferibr Courts -according to
its-will." That.would be, as was said by this Court
int-he -case of Marbiry v. Madison, to sender.;the
dimibutive clause " mere surplusage,2 to make it
"f6rai :without substance." This cannotj therefore,
be the. true constructin of the article.
isel.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

But although the absence of negative words will
not authorize the legislature to disregard the distribution of the power previously granted, their absefice
will justify a sound cons, liction of the whole.article,

so as to give every part :ts intended effect. It is
admitted, that "1affirmative words are often, in their
operation, negative of other objects than.those affirmed ;" and that where "a negative or exclusive sense
must be given to them, or they have no operation at
411 they must receive that negative or exclusive
sewse. But where they have full operation without
it

,- where

it would destroy some of the most import-

ant objects for which the power was created; thep
we think, affirmative words ought not ,to be construed negatively.
-The constitution declares, that in cases where a
State is a party, the Supreme Court shall have odgmal jurisdiction , but does not say that its appellate
jurisdiction shall not be exercised ih cases where,
from their nature, appellate jurisdiction is give'a
whether a- State be or be' not a party. It may be
conceded, that where the case is of such a nature as
to admit of its originating-in the Supreme Court, it
ought to originate there ; but where, from its nature,
it cannot originate in that Court, these words ought
not to be so construed as to require it. There are
many cases in which it would e found extremely
difficult, and subversive. of the spirit of -the consutu.
tion, to maintain the-construction, that -appellate'ji.
rsdiction cannQt be exercised where one .of the parties might sue or be sued in thus Court.
The constitution defines the jurisdiction of the

M9
ie2r.
Cohens

v.

Virgini.

396

CASES- IN THE SUPREME. COURT

Ieti.

W.
V'w32a.

Supreme Court, but does.not define that of the inferior Courts. Can -it be-affirmedthat a State miglit
not. sue the citizen of another State . a Circuit
Court. ?

Should the Circuit Court decide for or

against its jurisdictin, should it dismiss the suit, or
give.judgment against .h Statei might not its decision be revised m the. Supreme Court P The argument is, that it could not, and the very clause. which
is urged to prove, that the Circuit Court could.give
no judgment in the case. is also urged to prove, that
its judgment is irreversible. A supervising Court,
whose. peculiar province it is to correct the-errors of
an inferior Court,..has no power to.correct a-judgment given without jurisdiction, because, in the same
case, that supervising Court has original jurisdiction. Had negative-words been employed, it would
lie difficult to -give them this construction if they
would admit of any other. But, without negative
words, this irrational construction can never be.maietamined.
So, too, in the same clause,.thejurisdietion of the
Court is declared to be original,. " in cases affecting
ambassadors, other public mimniters, and consuls."
There is, perhaps, no part of the article under consideration so much required Iy national policy as this ;
unless it be that -part which extends the judicial
power. '-to all cases arising under the constitution,
laws, and treaties of the United States." It has
been generally held, that. the State.Courts have a concurrent jurisdiction with the federal Courts, in cases
to which the judicial power is extended, unless the
jurisdiction of the federal Courts be rendered exela-

OF THE UNITED STATS_9

397

sive by the words of the third article. If the words,
1821.
"to all cases," give exclusive jurisdiction in eases Cohen;
V.
affecting foreign ministers, they may also give exVirgaD,,
Congress,
of
clusive jurisdiction, if such be the will
in cases arising under the constitution, laws, and
treates of the United States. Now, suppose an individual were to sue a foreign minister in a State
Court, and that Court were to maintain its jurisdiction, and render judgment against the minister, could
it be contended, that this Court would be incapable
of revising such judgment, because the constitution
had given it original jurisdiction in the case.? If
this could be maintained, then a clause inserted for
the purpose of excluding the jurisdiction of all other
Courts than this, in a particular-case, would have
the effect of excluding the jurisdietion of this Courtin that very case, if the suit were to be brought in
another Court, and that Court, were to assert jurisdiction. This tribunal, according to the argument
which has been urged, could neither revie the judgment of such other Court, nor suspend its proceedings- for a writ of prohibition, or any other similar
writ, is m the nature -of appellate process.
Foreign consuls frequently assert, in our Prize
Courts, the claims of their fellow subjects. These
suits are maintained by them as consuls. The appellate power of this Court has .been frequently exercised in such cases, and has never been questioned.
It-would be extremely mischievous to withhold its
exercise. Yet the consul is a party on the record.
The truth ii, that where the words confer only ,.ppellate jurisdiction, original jurisdiction is most

398
1821.
Cohens

V.
Virginia.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

clearly not given ; but where the words admit of
appellate junsdiction, the power to take cognzance
of the suit originally, does not necessarily negative
the power to d(ecide upon it on. an appeal, if it may
orgiuate in a difterent Court.
It is, we think, apparpnt, that to give this distrtbutive clause the interpretation contended for, to
give to its affirmative words a negative operaticn, in
every possible case, would, in some instances, defeat
the obvious intention of the article. Such an interpretation would not consist with those rules which,
from tinme immemorial, have guided Courts, in -their
construction of instruments brought under their consideration. It must,.therefore, bediscarded. Every
part of the article must -be taken into view, and -that
construction adopted which will consist with. its
words, and promote its general intention. The
Court may imply a negative- from affirmgtive words,
where the implication promotes, not-where it defeats
the intention..
If we apply this principle, the correctness of
which we believe will -not -be-controverted, to-the
distributive clause under. consideration, -the-result,
we think, would be this: the original jurisdiction of
the Supreme Court, in cases where a. State is a
party, refirs to. those cases in-:which, accor.i-to
the, grant of power made in -the precedig-latise,
jurisdiction might be exercised in -consequence -of
the character, of the -party, and an original suit
might be institutedin any of thb federial Courts'.not
to- those- iases in Which an o"iginalsuiti miht 'notbe

399

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Of the last descrip-

1a8

tion, is every case between a State and its citizens,

h

instituted in a federal Court.

and, perhaps, every case in which a State is enforcing
the Supreme
its penal laws. In such cases, therefore,
Court cannot take original jurisdiction. In every
other case, that is, in every case to which the judicial power extends, and in Which original jurisdiction is not expressly given, that judicial power shall
be exercised in the appellate, and only in the appellate form. The original jurisdiction of this Court
cannot be enlarged, but'its appellate jurisdiction may
be exercised in every.case cognizable under the thirdarticle of the constitution, in the federal Courts, in
which original jurisdiction cannot be exercised , and
the extent of this judicial power is to be measuredi
not by giving the affirmative words of the distributive -clause a negative operation in- every-possible
case, but'by giiing their true meaning to the words
which define its extent.
The counsel for the defendant in error urge, in
opposition to this rule of construction, some dicta of
the Court, in -the,case .of Marbury.v Madison.
JIt is a maxim not to be disregarded, that general
expressions, in every opinton, are to be taken in connection with the case in which those expressions are
used. If they go beyond the case, they may be respected, but ought not to cntrol. the judgment in a
subsequent suit- when the-very point is presented for
clie .n. The reason of this maxim is olivious. The
question actually before the Court is investigated
with care, andpconsidered.in its full extent. Other
principles which may serve to illustrate it, are con-

v.

.

rgiaa.

400

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

sidered in their relation to the case decided, but their
possible bearing on all other cases is seldom com%
pletely investigated.
V.
In the case of Marbury v. Madison, the single
Vlrgnla.
question before the Court, so far as that case can be
applied to this, was, whether the legislature could
give this Court original jurisdiction in a case in
whichthe constitution had clearly not given it, and
in which no doubt respecting the construction of the
article could possibly be raised. The Court decided.
and we think very properly, that the legislature
could not give original jurisdiction in such a case.
But, in the reasoning of the Court in support of this
decision, some expressions are used which go fat
beyond it. The counsel for Marbury had insisted
,on the unlimited discretion of the legislature in the
apportionment of the judicial power, and it is
against this argument that the reasoning of the Couri
is directed. They say that, if such bad been the
intention of the article, "it would certainly have
been.'useless to proceed farther than to define the
judicial power, and the tribunals in which it should
be vested." The Court says, that such a construction would render the clause, dividing the j urisdicnon
of the Court into original and appellate, totally useless, that "affirmative words are often, in their
operation, negative of other objects than those which
are affirmed, and, in this case, (in the case of Marburt!v. Aladison,) a negative or exclusive sense must
be given to them, or they have no operation at all."
1 Itcannot be presumed," adds the Court, "1that any
clause in the constitution is intended to be without
181.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

effect, and, therefore, such a construction is madmissible, unless the words require it." •
The whole reasoning of the Court proceeds upon
the idea that the affirmative words of the clause giving one sort of jurisdiction, must imply a negative
of any other sort of jurisdiction, because otherwise
the words would be totally inoperative, and this reasoning is advanced in a case to which it was strictly
applicable. If in that case original jurisdiction could
have been exercised, the clause under consideration
would have been entirely useless. Having such
cases only in its view, the Court lays down a principle which is generally correct, in terms much
broader than the decision, and not only much broader
than the reasoning with which that decision is supported, but in some instances contradictory to its
principle. The reasoning sustains the negative operation of the words in that case, because otherwise
the clause would have no meaning whatever, and
because such operation was necessary to give effect
to the intention of the article. The effort now made
is, to apply the conclusion to which the Court was
conducted by that reasoning in the particular case,
to one in which the words have their full operation
when understood affirmatively, and in which the negative, or exclusive sense, is to be so used as to dbfeat some of the great oblects of the article.
To this construction the Court cannot give its assent. The general expressions in the case of Marbury v. Madison must be understood with the limirations which are given to them in this opinion, limitaVop. VI.

51

1821.

Cohens

V.

Virgima.

402

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

tions which in no degree affect the decision in that
case, or the tenor of its reasoning.
v.
The counsel who closed the argument, put several
VirZima. cases for the purpose of illustration, which he supposed to arise under the constitution, and yet to be,
apparently, without the jurisdiction or .the Court.
Were a State .tolay a duty on exports, to collect
the money and place it in her treasury, -could the citizen who paid it, he asks, maintain a' suit in this
Court against such State, to recover *back the
money P
Perhaps not. Without, however, deciding such
supposed case, we may say, that it is entirely unlike
that under consideration.
The citizen who has paid his money to his State,
-under a law that is void, is in the same situation with
every other person who has paid money by mistake.
The law raises an assumpsit to return the money,
and it-is uponthat assumpsit that the action is to be
maintained. Torefuse to comply with this assumpsit maybe no more a violation of the constitution, than
to refuse to comply with any other, and as the federal Courts never had jurisdiction over contracts between a State and its citizens, they may have none
over this. But let us so vary the supposed case, as
to give it a real- resemblance to that under consideration. Suppose a citizen to. refuse to pay this export
duty, and a suit to be instituted for the purpose of
compelling him to pay it. He pleads the constitution of the United States in bar of the action, notwithstanding which the Court gives judgment
against him. This would be a case arising under
1821.

403

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the constitution, and would be the very case now
before the Court.

We are also asked, it a State should confiscate
property secured by a treaty, whether the individual
could maintain an action for that property
If the property confiscated be debts, our own experience informs us that the remedy of the creditor
against his debtor remains. If it be land, which is
secured by a treaty, and afterwards confiscated by a
'State, the argument does not assume that this title,
thus secured, could be extinguished by an act of confiscation. The'injured party, therefore, has his remedy against the occupant of the land for that
which the treaty secures to him, not against the
State for money which is not secured to him.
The case of a State which pays off its own debts
with paper money, no more resembles this than do
those to which we have already adverted. The
Courts have no jurisdiction over the contract.
They cannot. enforce it, nor judge of its violation.
Let it be that the act discharging the debt is a mere
nullitv and that it is still due. Yet the federal
Courts have no cognizance of the case. But suppose a State to institute proceedings against an individual, which depended on the validity of an act
emitting bills of credit suppose a-State to prosecute
one of its citizens for refusing paper money, who
should plead the constitution in bar of sih prosecution. If his plea should be overruled, and judgment rendered against him, his case would resemble
this; and, unless the juridicuon of this Court
might be exercised over it, the constitution would

1821.
-

Cohens

v.

Virgin .

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

4"
1821.
Cqhjens

-v.
VIxgia.

be .iolated, and the inimed paxty be unable to bring
case before. that tribunal to which the people o
the. United States have assigned all such cases.
ttis most true that this Court will pot -vke:juris;-

Shis

diction if it shouldnot. but it is .equally true, that it
must take jurisdiction if it should. The judiciary
cannot, as the legislature may, avoid a measure be.cause it approaches the confines, of the constitution.
We cannot pass it by because it is doubtful. With
whatever dobts; with whatever -difficulties, a case
maybe attended, we must decide it, if it be brought
before, us. We ,have no more right to .decline the
gierdise ofj url~diction whih is given, than to usurp
that ohich is not given. The one or the other
woulA be treason io. the onstitution. , Questions
may occur which we would gladly avoid, but -we
cannot av~id them. All -we .can do is, to exercise
our best judgment, and conscientiously to ,perforM
our duty. In doing this,-on-the present occasion, we
find this tribunal invested with appellate jurisdietoq
in all cases arising,under the cynstitution and laws
.of the Unite4 States. We find tio exception .to this
grant, and we cannot insert one.

To escape. the .operation of these comprehensive
words, the counsel for the defendant, has mentioned
instances in wh-ih the qonsntuton might be violated without giving jurisdiction to this Court.
Thesi words, therefore, however universal in their
expression, must, he contends, be limited and contr6lled in their construction by circumstances. One
of these instances is, the grant by a State of a patent
of nobility. The Court, le says, cannot annul this
grant.

OF TME UNITED STATES.

405

182.
This may be very true, but by no means j ustifies
the inference drawn from it. The article does not Cohews
V.
extend the judicial power to every violation of the
Virgma.
to
but
place,
take
possibly
may
which
constitution
",
a case in law or equity," in which a right, under
such law, is asserted in a Court ofjus.tice. If the
question cannot be brought into a Court, then there
is no case, in law or equity, and no jurisdiction is
given by the words of the article. But if, in any
controversy depending in a Court, the cause should
depend on the.validity of such a law, that would be
a case arising under the constitution, to which the
judicial power of the United States would extend.
The,same observation applies to the other instances
with which the counsel who opened the cause;has
illustrated this argument. Although they show that
there.may be violatmons of the constitution,- of which
the Courts can take no cognizance, they do .not
show that an interpretation -more restrictive than the
words themselves import ought to be given to this
article. They do -not show that there can be "a
case in law or equity,1 arising under the constitutmn,
to which the judicial power does not extend.
We think, then, that, as the constitution originally
stood, the appellate jurisdiction of this Court, in all
cases arising under the.'constitution, laws, or treaties
ofthe United States, was not arrested by the circumstance that a State was a party..
This leads, to a consideration of the .1 th amendment.
It is in these words- ,"The judicial power of the
United States shall not be construed to extend to any

CASES IX"THE SUPREME COURT

406
'

181.

suit in law -or equity commenced or prosecuted

0*eas

against one of the United States, by citizens of ano-

v.

ther State, or by citizens or subledts of any foreign

ViMnia.

State."

It is a part of our history, that, at the adoption of
the constitution, all the States were greatly indebted ; and the apprehension that these debts might
be prosecuted in the federal Courts, formed a very
serious objection to that instrument. Suits were instituted ; and the Court maintained its jurisdiction.
The alarm was general; and, to quiet the apprehensions that were so extensively entertained, this
amendment was proposed in Congress, and adopted
by the State legislatures. That its motive was not
to maintain the sovereignty of a State from the degradation supposed to attend a compulsory appearance before the tribunal of the nation, may be inferred from the terms of the amendment. It does not
comprehend controversies between two or more
States, or between a State and a foreign State. The
jurisdiction of the Court still extends to these cases"
and in -hese a State may still be sue(l We must ascribe the-amendment, then, to some other cause than
the dignity of a State. There is no difficulty in
finding this cause. Those who were inhibited from
commencing a suit against a State, or from prosecuting one which might be commenced before the
adoption of the amendment, were persons who might
probably be its creditors. There was not mnuch
reason to fear that foreign or sister States would be
creditors to any considerable amount) and there was
reason to retain the jurisdiction of the Court in those

OF THE UNITED STATES.

407

1821.
cases, because it might be essential to the preservation of peace. The amendment, therefore, extend- ,s,Cohens
ed to suits commenced or prosecuted by individuals,
v.
Virpnix.
States.
by
brought
those
but not to
The first impression made on the mind by this
amendment is, that it was intended for those cases,
and for those only, in which some demand against a
State is made by an individual in the Courts of the
Union. If we consider the causes to which it is to
be traced, we are conducted to the same conclusion.
A general interest might well be felt in leaving to a
State the full power of consulting its convenience in
the adjustment of its debts, or of other claims upon
it, but no interest could be felt in so changing the
relations between the whole and its parts, as to strip
the government of the means of protecting, by the
instrumentality of its Courts, the constitution and
laws from active violation.
The words of the amendment appear to the Court
to justify and require tins construction. The judicial power is not "to extend to any suit in law or
equity commenced or prosecuted against one of the
United States by citizens of another State, &c."
What is a suit We understand it to be the prosecution, or pursuit, of some claim, demand, or request. In law language, it is the prosecution of
some demand in a Court of justice. The remedy.
for every species of wrong is. says Judge. Blackstone, "the being put in possession of that right
whereof the party injured is deprived." 1,The instruments whereby this remedy is obtained, are a diversity of suits and actions, which are defined by the

408

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Mirror to be 'the lawful demand of one's right.'
Or, as Bracton and Fleta express it, in the words of
-7
Cohken3
r
Justinian, 'jus pro.,equendi 2n judcto quod alicut
rrgzna. debetur." Blackstone then proceeds to describe
every species of remedy by suit; and they are
all cases were the party suing claims to obtain
something to which he has a right.
To commence a suit, is to demand something by
the iisfltution of process in a Court of justice, and
to.prosecute the suit, is, according to the common
acceptation of language, to continue that demand.
By a suit 'commenced by an individual against a
State, we should understand process sued out by
that individual against the State,. for the purpose of
establishing some claim against it by the judgment of
a Court; and the prosecution of that suit is its contnuance. Whatever may be the stages of its progress, the actor is still the -same. Suits had been
commenced in the Supreme Court against some of
the States before this amendment., was- introdu'ced
into Congress, and others might be commenced before it should be adopted by the State legislatures,
and might be depebding at the timde of its adoption.
The object of the amendment was not only to prevent- the commencement of future suits, but to arrest
the-prosecution of those which might be commenced
when this artile. should form a part of the constitution.' It therefore embraces both objects ; and its
nieaning is, that thejudicial power shall not be construed to extendto any suit which may be commenced, or which, if already commenced, way be
181.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

prosecuted against a State by the citizen of anotier
State. If a suit, brought in one Curtq, and carried

s be a contiCChebas
by legal process to a supervisilig Court,

nuatfon of the same suit, then this suit, is not commenced nor prosecuted against a State. It is clearly
in its commencement the suit of a State against aft
individual, which suitis transferred to this Court,
not for the purpose of asserting any claim against
the State, but for the purpose of asserting a constitutional defence against a claim made by a State.
A Writ of error is defined to be, a commission by
which the judges of one Court are authorized to examine a record upon which a judgment was given in
another Court, and, on such examination, to affirm
or reverse the same according to law. If, says my
Lord Coke, by the writ of error, the plaintiff may
recover, or be restored to any thing, it may be released by the name of an action. In Bacon's Abrtdggnent, tt. Error, L. it is laid down, that " where
by a writ of error, the plaintiff shall recover,
or be restored to any personal thing, as debt, damage, or the like, a release of all actions personal is
a good plea, and when land is to be recovered or
restored in a writ of error, a release of actions real is
a good bar, but where by a writ of error the plaintiff shall' not be restored to any personal or real thing,
a release of alractions, real or personal, is no bar."
And for this we have the authority of Lord Coke,
both in his Commentary on Littleton and in his Reports. A writ of error, then, is in the nature of a
suit or action when it is to restore the party who obtains it to the possession, of any thing which. s withVOL. VI.

52

409
1821.

V.
Virginma

410

-CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

held from him, not when its operation is entirely defensive.
cohens
This rule will apply to writs of error from the
v.
Virgua. Courts of the United States, as well as to those writs
in England.
Under the judiciary act, the effectof a writ of error
is simply to bring the record into Court, and submit the judgment of the inferior tribuqal to re-examination. It does not in any manner act upon the
parties, it acts only on the record. It removes the
record into the supervising tribunal. Where, then, a
State obtains a judgment against an individual, and
the Court, rendering such judgment, overrules a defence set up under the constitution or laws of the
United States, the transfer of this record into the
Supreme Court, for the sole purpose of inquiring
whether the judgment violates the constitution or
laws of the United States, can, with no propriety,
we think, be denominated a suit commenced or prosecuted against the State whose judgment is so far
re-examined. Nothing is demanded from the State.
No claim against it of any description is asserted or
prosecuted. The party is not to be restored to the
possession of any thing. Essentially, it is-an appeal
on a single point; and the defendant who appeals
from a judgment rendered against him, is never said
to commence or prosecute a suit against the 'Plaintiff
who has obtained the judgment. The writ of error
is given rather than an appeal, because it is the more
usual mode of removing suits at common law; and
because, perhaps, it is more technically proper where
a single point of law, and not the whole case, is. to
1821.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

411.

1821be re-examined. But an appeal might be given, and
-Coben
of
a
purpose
might be so regulated as to effect every
v,.
writ of error. The mode of removal is form, and
or Virvnh
error
of
writ
by
be
it
Whether
not substance.
appeal, no claim is asserted, no demand is made by.
the original defendant, -he only asserts the constitutional right to have his defence examined by that
tribunal whose province -it is to construe.the constitution and laws of the Union.
The only part of ihe proceeding which is in any
manner personal, is the citation. And what is the
citation It is simply notice to the opposite party that
the, record is transferred into another Court, where
he may appear, or decline to. appear, as his juidgipent or inclination may determine. As the party
who has obtained a judgment is out of Court, and
may, therefore, not know that his cause is removed;
common justice requires that notice of the fact
should be given him. But this notice is not a suit,
nor has it the effect of process. If the party does not
choose to appear, he cannot be brought into Court,
nor is his failure to appear considered as a default.
Judgment cannot be given against him for his nonappearance, but the judgment is-to be re-examined,
and reversed orfaffirmed, in like manner as if the
party had appeared and argued his cause.
The point of view in whieh this writ of error,
with its citation, has been considered uniformly in
the Courts of the Union, has been well illustrated,
by a reference to the course of this Court. in stits
instltute&dby the United States. rhe universally
received opinion is, that no sut can be commenced

412
1821.
'
Coheas

v.
Viipma,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT'

or prosecuted against the United States i that the
judiciary act does not authorize such suits.

Yet

writs of error, accompamed with citatiojns, have umformly issued -for the removal of judgments in favourof the United States into. a su.peribr, Court, where
they have, like those in favour of an individual- been
re-examined, and affirmed or reversed. It has never
been suggested, that such writ of error was a suit
against the United States, ar;d,. therefore, not within
the jurisdiction of the appellate Court.
It is, then, the opinion of the Court, that the defendant who removes a judgment rendered against him
by a State Court into this Court, for the, purpose of
re-examining the question,.whether that judgment be
in violation of the constitution or laws of the United
States, does not commence or prosecute a suit
against the State, whatever .may be its opinion
where the effect of the writ may be to restore the
party to the possession of a thing which be demands.
But should we in this be mistaken, the error does
not aflect the case now before the Court. If this
writ of error be a suit in the sense of the I1th
amendment, it is not a suit commenced or prosecuted

" by.acitizen of another State, or by a citizen or
bubjerct of any foreign State." It is not then within the amendment, but is governed entirely, by the
constituion, as originally framed, and we have already seen, that in ils origin, the judicial power
was extended to all cases arising-under the constitution or laws of -the UnitedState, withbut respect
to parties.

OF THE UNITED STATEa.

2d. The second objection to the jurisdiction of
the Court is, that its appellate power cannot be exercised, in any case, over the, judgment of a State
Court.

1821.
Coheis

V.

Virginia.
Thejunsdic-

This objection is sustained chiefly by arguments lin o this
s-tec,
drawa.from the supposed total separation of the jU- 8esr
u60n,
laws t
tates
of
their
'd
and
the
nion,
that
of
State
from
of,
a
diciary
the Union,
the suit
entire independence of each other. The argument wher
originally
Is
considers the federal judiciary as completely foreign brought i. a
State be Court,
dmay
exer.;

by a writ
csederror
to that of a State, and as being no more connecte Pof
from
th Cor4r tp
with it in any respect whatever, than the Court of a Poch
State
foreAgn State. If this hypothesis be just, the argu- Cour.
ment founded on it is equally so, but if the hypothesis be not supported by the constitution, the argument fails with it.
This hypothesis is not founded on any words in
the constitution, which might seem to countenance
it, but on the .unreasonableness of giving a contrary
eonstruction to words which seem to require it, and
on the incompatibility of the application of the appellate jurisdiction to the judgments of State Courts,
with that constitutional relation which subsists bev
tween the government of the Union and the goverrments of those States which compose it.
Let this unreasonableness, this total incompatibility, be examined.
That the United States form, for many, and for
most important purposes, a single nation, has not yet
been denied. In war, we are one people.. In making peace, we are one people. In-all commercial
regulations, we are one and the same people. In

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

414
1821.
Cohens

v.

Virgina.

many other respects, the American people are one,
and the government which is alone capable of controling and managing their interests in all these respects, is the gbvernment of the Union. It is their
government, and in that character they have no
other. America has chosen to be, in many respects,
and to many purposes, a nation, and for all these purposes, her government is complete; to all these objects, it is competent. The people have declared, that
in the exercise of all powers given for these objects,
it is supreme. It can, then, in effecting these objects,
legitimately control all individuals or governments
within the American territory. The constitution
and laws of a State, so far as they are repugnant to
the constitution and laws of. the United States, are
absolutely void. These States are constituent parts
of the United States. They are members of.one
great empire-for some purposes sovereign, for
some purposes subordinate.
In a government so constituted, is it unreasonable
that the judicial power should be competent to give
efficacy to the constitutional laws of the legislature ;
That department can decide on the validity of the
constitution or law of a State, if it be repugnant-to
the constitution or to a law of the United States. Is
it unreasonable that it should also be empowered to
decide on the judgment of a State tribunal enforcing
such unconstitutional law P Is it so very unreasonable as to furnish a justification for controling the
words of the constitution R
We think itis not. We think that in a government

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1821.
acknowledgedly supreme, with respect to objects of
vital interest to the nation, there is nothing inconsist- Colienar
v.
ent with sound reason, nothing incompatible with ihe
Virginia,
departments
its
all
making
nature of government, in
supreme, so far as respects those objects, and so far
as is necessary fo their attainment. The exercise of
the appellate power over those judgments of the
State tribunals which may contravene the constitution or laws of the United States, is, we believe, essential to the attainment of those objects.
The propriety of entrusting the construction of the
constitution, and laws made in pursuance thereof, to
the judiciary of the Union, has not, we believe, as
yet, been drawn into question. It seems to be a
corollary from this political axiom, that the federal
Courts should either possess exclusive jurisdiction in
such cases, or a power to revise the judgment rendered in them, by the State tribunals. If the federal
and State Courts have concurrent jurisdiction in all
cases arising under the constitution, laws, and treaties of the United States, and if a case of this description brought in a State Court cannot be removed before judgment, nor revised after judgment,
then the construction of the constitution, laws, and
treaties of the United States, is not confided particularly to their judicial department, but is confided
equally to that department and to the State Courts,
however they may be constituted. "Thirteen independent Courts," says a very celebrated statesman,
(and we have now more than twenty such Courts,)
"of final jurisdiction over the same causes, arising
upon the same laws, is a hydra in government, from

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

416
1821.

which nothing but contradiction and confusion can

CohensSproceed."

V.

Virgiwa.

Dismissing the unpleasant suggestion, that any
motives which may not be fairly avowed, or which
ought not to exist, can ever influence a. State or its
Courts, the necessity of uniformity, as well as correctness in expounding the constitution and laws of
the United States, would itself suggest the propnety of vesting in some single tribunal the power
of deciding, in the last resort, all cases in which
they are involved.
We are not restrained, then, by the political relations between the general and State governments,
from construing the words ofthe constitutionj defining the judicial power, in their true sense. We
are not bound to construe them- more restrictively
than they naturally import.
They give to the Supreme Court appellate jurisdiction in all cases arising under the constitution,
laws, and treaties of the United States. The words
are broad enough to comprehend all cases of this
description, in whatever Court they may be decided.
In expounding them, we may be permitted to take
into view those considerations to which Courts have
always allowed great weight in the exposition of
laws.
The framers of the constitution would naturally
examine the state of things existing at the time, and
their work sufficiemly attests that they did so. All
acknowledge that they were convened for the purpose of strengthening the confederation by enlarging
the powers of the government, and by giving efficacy

OP THE UNITED STATES.

to those which it before possessed, but could not exercise. They inform us themselves, in the instruinent they presented to the American public, that
one of its objects was to form a more perfect union.
Under such circumstances, we certainly should not
expect to find, in that instrument, a diminution of
the powers of the actual government.
Previous to the adoption of the confederation,
Congress established Courts which received appeals
in prize causes decided in the Courts of the respective States. This power of the government, to establish ,tribunals for these appeals, was thought consistent with, and was founded on,.its political relations with the States. These Courts did exercise
appellate jurisdiction over those cases decided in the
State Courts, to which the judicial power of the
federal government extended.
The confederation gave to Congress the power
" of establishing Courts for receiving and determining finally appeals in all cases of captures."
This power was uniformly construed to authorize
those Courts to receive appeals from the sentences
of State Courts, and to affirm or reverse them.
State tribunals are not mentioned, *butthis clause in
the confederation necessarily comprises them, Yet
the relation between the general and State governments was much weaker, much more lax, under the
confederation than under the present constitution ;
and the States being much -more completely sovereign, their institutions were much more independent.
The Convention which framed the constitution, on
VOL VI.

53

417
1821.
Cohiens

V.
Virginia.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

418
1821.
Cohens

V.

turning their attention to the judicial power, found
it limited to a few objects, but exercised, with respect to some of those objects, in its appellate form,

Virania. over the judgments of the State Courts. They extend it, among other objects, to all cases arising under the constitution, laws, and treaties of the United
States, and in a. subsequent clause declare, that in
such cases, the Supreme Court shall exercise appellate jurisdiction. Nothing seems to be given which
would justify the withdrawal of a judgment rendered in a State Court, on the constitution, laws, or
treaties of the United States, from this appellate jurisdiction.
Great weight has always been attached, and very
rightly attached, to contemporaneous exposition.
No question, it is believed, has arisen to which this
principle applies more unequivocally than to that
now under consideration.
The opinion of the Federalist has always been
considered -as of great authority. It is a complete
commentary on our constitution; and is appealed to
by all parties in the questions to which that instrument has given birth. Its intrinsic merit entitles it
to this high rank, and the part two of its authors
performed in framing the constitution, put it very
much in their power to explain the views with which
it was framed. These essays having been published
while the constitution was before the nation for
adoption or rejection, and having been written in answer to objections founded entirely on the extent of
its powers, and on its diminution of State sovereignty, are entitled to the more consideration where they

OF THE UNITED STATES.

frankly avow that the power objected to is given,
and defend it.
In discussing the extent of the judicial power, the
Federalist says, " Here another question occurs:
what relation would subsist between the national and
State Courts in these instances of concurrent jurisdiction P I answer, that an appeal would certainly
lie from the latter, to the Supreme Court of the
Uuited States. The constitution in direct terms
gives an appellate jurisdiction to the Supreme Court
in all the enumerated cases of federal cognizance in.
which it is not to have an original one, without a
single expression to confine its operation to the inferior federal Courts. The objects of appeal, not
the tribunals from which it is to be made, are alone
contemplated. From this circumstance, and from
the reason of the thing, it ought to be construed to
extend to the State tribunals. Either this must be
the case, or the local Courts must be excluded from
a concurrent jurisdiction in matters of national concern, else the judicial authority of the Union may
be eluded at the pleasure of every plaintiff or prosecutor. Neither of these consequences ought, without evident necessity, to be involved, the latter
would be entirely inadmissible, as it would defeat
some of the most important and avowed purpo.es of
the proposed government, and would essentially embarrass its measures. Nor do I perceive any foundation for such a supposition. Agreeably to the remark
already made, the national and State systems are to
be regarded as ONE WHOLE. The Courts of the latter will of course be natural auxiliaries to the execu-

419
1821.
Cohens

V.
Vimnia.

420
1821.
'

Cohena

'Vi v.

rgmia.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

tion -ofthe laws of the Union, and an appeal. from
them will as naturally lie to that tribunal which is

destined to unite and assimilate the principle& of natural justice, and the rules of national decision. The
evident aim of the plan of the national convention isj
that all the causes of the specified classes shall, for
weighty public reasons, receive their original or
final determination in the Courts of the Union. To
confine, therefore, the general expressions which.
give appellate j.urisdiction to the Supreme Court, to
appeals from.the subordinate federal Courts, ifistead'
of allowing their extension to the State Courtsi
would be to abridge the ldtitude of the terms, in
subversion of the intent, contrary to every sound
rule of interpre ation."
A contemp-raneous exposition of the consttttion, certainly of not less authority -than that which
has been just cited, is the judiciary act itself. We
know that in the Congress Wh~ch passed- that act
were many eminent members of the Convention
winch formed the constitution. Not a single'indi.vidual, so far as is known, supposed .that part of tho
act which gives the Supreme Court appellate jurisdiction over the judgments of the State Courts in
the cases therein specified, to, be unauthorized- by the
constitution.
While on this part of the argument, it may be
also material to observe that the uniform decisions of
this Court -on. the point now under consideration,
have been assented to, with a single exception, by the
Courts of every State in the Uion whose judg
meats have been revised. It has been the unwel-

OF THE UNITED.STATES.
1s2.
come duty of this tribunal to revers- the judgmentS
c'
of many 'State Courts in cases in which the strongv.
est State feelings were engaged. Judges, whose
Virgibla.
to
bench,
any
grace
would
character
and
talents
whom a disposition to submit to jurisdiction that is
usurped, or to surrender their legitimate powers,
will certainly not be imputed, have yielded without
hesitation to the authority by which their- judgmentswere reversed, while they, perhaps, disapproved the judgment of reversal.
This concurrence of statesmen, of legislators, and.
of judges, in the same construction of the constitution, may justly inspire some confidence in that construction.
In opposition to it, the counsel who made this
point has presented in a great variety of forms, the
idea already noticed, that the federal and State
Courts must, of necessity, and from the nature of
the constitution, be in all things totally distinct and
independent of each other. If this Court can correct
the errors of the Courts of Virginia, he says it makes
them Courts of the United States, or becomes itself
a part of the judiciary of Virginia.
But, it has been already shown that neither of
these consequences necessarily follows The American people may certainly give to a national tribunal a supervising power over those judgments of the
State Courts, which may conflict with the, constitution, laws, or treaties, of the Umted States, without
converting them into federal Courts, or converting
the national into a State tribunal. The one Court-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

4W
1921.
cohens

v.

Virginia.

stil. derivesits authority from the State, the other
still derives its authority from the nation.
If it shall be established, he says, that this Court

has appellate jurisdiction over the State Courts in

all cases enumerated in the 3d article of the constitution, a complete consolidation of the States, so far
as respects judicial power is produced.
But, certainly, the mind of the gentleman who urged this argument is too accurate not to perceive that
he has carried it too far, that the premises by no
means justify the conclusion. "1A complete consolidation.of the States, so far as respects the judicial power," would authorize the legislature to confer on the federal Courts appellate jurisdiction from
theState Courts in all cases whatsoever. The distinction between such a power, and that of giving
appellate jurisdiction in a few specified cases in the
decision of which the nation takes an interest, is too
obviois not to be perceived by all.
This opinion has been ;already drawn out to too
great a length to-admit of entering into a particular
consideration of the various forms in which the
counsel who made this point has, with much ingenuity, presented his argument to the Court. The
argumentin all its forms is essentially the same. It
is founded, not on the words of the constitution, but
on its spirit, a spirit extracted, not from the words of
the instrument, but from his view of the nature of
our Unioni, and of the great fundamental principles
on which the fabric stands..
To this argument, in all its forms, the same answer may be given. Let the nature and objects of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

our Union be considered; let the great fundamental
1$2i.
principles, yn which the fabric stands, be examined,
C
and we think the result must, be, that there is nov.
thing so extravagantly absurd in giving to the Court Virniia.
of the. nation the power of revising the decisionz, of
local tribunals on questions which affect the nation,
as to require that words which import this power
should be restricted by a forced construction. The
question then must depend on the words themselves.
and on their construction we. shall be the more readily excuged for not adding to the observations already made, because the subject was fully discussed
and exhausted in the case of Martin v Hunter.
3d. We come now to the third objection, which juasdicioh
The i
t
ohe
though differently stated.by the counsel, is substan- the"'sdcton
of
Court, =mjudiathat
the
der
t
tially the same. One gentleman has said
ary ct of 1789,
20,. 25.
judiciary act does not give jurisdition in the case.

The cause was argued in the State Court, on a
case agreed by the parties, which states the prosecution under a law for selling lottery tickets, which is
set.forth, and further states the act of Congress by
which the City of Washington was authorizea to establish the lottery It then states that the lottery
was regularly established by virtue of the act, and
concludes with referring to the Court the questions,
whether the act of Congress be valid P whether, on
its just construction, it constitutes a bar to the prosecution P and, whether the act of Assembly, on
which the prosecution is founded, be not itself invalid P These questions were decided against the
operation of the act of Congress, and in favour of
the operation of the act of the State.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COV7RT

,424
1821.
Cohens

v.

Virginia.

If the 26th section of the judiciary act be inspected,
it will at once be perceived that it comprehends expressly the case under consideration.
But it is not upon the letter of the act that the gentleman who stated this point in this form, founds his
argumefit. Both gentlemen concur substantially in
their views of this part of the case. They deny
that the act of Congress, on which the plaintiff in
error relies, is a law of the United States, or, if a
law of the United States, is within the second clause
of the sixth article.
In the enumeration of the powers of Congress,
which is made i the 8th section of the -first article,
we find that of exercising exclusive legislation over
such District as shall become the seat of government.
This power, like all others which are specified, is
conferred on Congress as the legislature of the
Union for, strip them of that character, and they
would not possess it. In no other character can it
be exercised. In legislating for the District, they necessarily preserve the character of the legislature of
the Union, for, it is in that character alone that the
constitution confers on them this power of exclusive
legislation. This proposition need not be enforced.
The 2d clause of the 6th article declares, that
L"This constitution, and the laws of the United
States, which shallbe made in pursuance thereof,
shall be the supreme law of the land."
The clause which gives exclusive jurisdiction is,
unquestionably, a part of the constitution, and, as
such, binds all the United States. Those who contend that acts of Congress) made in pursuance of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

this power, do not, like acts made in pursuance of
other powers,, bind the n'ation, ought tot13 showbme
safe and clear rule which shall support this construction, and prove that an act of Congress, clothed in
all the forms which attend other legislative-acts, and
passed in virtue of a power conferred on, and exercised by Congress, as the legislature of -the Union,
is not a law of the United States, and does not bind
them.
One ofrthe gentlemen sought to illustrate his proposition that Congress, when legislating for the District, assumed a: distinct- character, and was reduced
to a mere local legislature, whose laws could possess no obligation out of the ten miles square, by a
reference to the complex character of this Court. It
is, they say, a Court of common law and a Court of
equity Its character, when sitting as a Court of
common law, is as distinct from its character when,
sitting as a Court of equity, as if the powers belonging to those departments were vested in different
tribunals. Though united in the same tribunal,
they are never confounded with each other.
Without inquiring how far the union of different
characters in one Court, may be applicable, in principle, to the union in Congress of the power of exclusive legislation in some places, and of limited legislation in others, it may be observed, that the
forms of proceedings in a Court of law are so totally
unlike the forms of proceedings in a Court of equity,
that a mere inspection of the record gives decisive
information of the character in which the Court sits,
and consequently of the extent of its powers. But
VOL. V.

54

425
1821.

Cohens

v.
Virginia.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
Is21.
'0Y~'

Cohens
T.

Vrurga.

if the forms of proceeding were precisely the same,
and the Court the same, the disfinction would disappear.

Since Congress legislates in the same forms,

and in the same character, in virtue of powers of
equal obligation, conferred in the same instrument,
when exercising its exclusive powers of legistlon,
as well as when exercising those which are limited,
we must inquire whether there be any thing in the
nature of this exclusive legislation, which necessarily
confines the operation of the laws made in virtue of
this power to the place with a view to which they
are made.
Connected with the power to legislate within this
District, is a similar power in f6rts, arsenals, dock
yards, &c. Congress has a right to punish murder
in a fort, or other place within its exclusive jurisdiction ;. but no general right to punish murder committed within any of the States. In the act for the
punishment of crimes agairst the United States,
murder committed within a .fort, or any other place
or district of country, under the sole and exclusive
jurisdiction 'of the United States, is punished with
death. Thus Congress legislates in the same act,
under its exclusive and its limited powers.
The act proceeds to direct, that the body of the
criminal, after execution, may be delivered to a surgeon for dissection, and punishes any person who
shall rescue such body during its conveyance from
the place of execution to the surgeon to whom it is
to be delivered.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

427

1821.
Let these actual provisions of the law, or any
%
subject,
the
on
made
be
can
which
provisions
other
cohens
v.
be considered with a view to the character in which
Congress acts when exercising its powers of exclu- Virit
sive legislation.
If Congress is to be considered merely as q local
legislature, invested, as to this object, with powers
limited to the fort, or other place, in which the murder may be committed,.if its general powers cannot
come in aid of these local powers, how can the offence be tried in any other Court than that of ie
place in which it nas been committed P How can
the offender be conveyed to, or tried in, any other
place P How can he be executed elsewhere? How
can his body be conveyed through a country under
the jurisdiction of another sovereign, and the individual punished, who, within that jurisdiction, shall
rescue the body.
Were any one State of the Union to pass a law
for trying a criminal in a Court not created by itself,
in a place not within its jurisdiction, and direct the
sentence to be executed without its territory, we
should all perceive and acknowledge its ihcompetency to such a course of legislation. If Congress
be not equally incompetent, it is because that body
unites the powers of local legislation with those
which are to operate through the Union, and may
use the last in aid of the first, or because the power
of exercising exclusive legislation draws after it, as
an incident, the power of making that legislation effectual, and the incidental power may be exercised

CASES IN TH4 SUPREME COURT
1821.
CohensV
CohemJ

v.

Virgiia.

throughout the Union, because the pfincipal power
is given to that body as the legislature- of the Union.
So, in the same act, a person who, having knowledge of the con- -nission of murder, or other felony,
on the high seas, or within any fort, arsenal, dock
yard, magazine, or other place, or district of country
within the sole and exclusive jurisdiction of the
United States, shall conceal the same, &c. he shall
he adjudged guilty of misprision of felony, and shall
be adjudged-to. be imprisoned, &c.
It is clear, that Congress cannot punish felonies
generally , and, of consequence, cannot punish misprision of felony It is 6qually clear, that a State
l6gislature,-the State of Maryland for example, cannot punish those who, in another State, conceal a
felony committed in Maryland. How, -then, is it
that Congress, legislating exclusively for a fort, punishes those who, out of that fort, conceal a felony
committed within it '
The solution, and the only solution of the difficulty, isi.that the power vested in Congress, as-the legislature of the United States, to legislate exclusively
within any place ceded by- a State, carries with it,
as an incident, the right tomake that power effectual. If a -felon escape out of the State in which the
act has been committed, the government cannot pursue him into another State, and apprehend-him there,
but must demand -him from the executive power of
that other State. If Congress were to be considered
merely as the- local legislature for the fort or other
place in'which the offence might, be committed, then
this pnnbiple would apply to them as to other local

OF THE UNITED STATES

legislatures, and the felon who should escape out of
the fort, or other place, in which the felony may
have been committed, could not be apprehended by
the marshal, but must be demanded from the executive.of the State. But we know that the principle
does not apply,. and the reason. is, that Congress is
not a local legislature, but exercises this particular
power, like all its Qther powers, in its high character,
as the legislature of the Union. The American
people thought it'a necessary power, and they conferred it for their own benefit. Being so conferred,
it carries with it all those incidental powers -which
are necessary to its complete and effectual execution.
Whether any particular law be designed to operate
without the District or not,-depends on the words of
that law. If it be designed so to operate, then the
question, whether the power so exeretsed be ncidental to the power of exclusive legislation, and be
warranted by the constitution, requires a consAeration of that instrunient. In such cases theconstitution and the law must be compared and construed.
This is the exercise of jurisdiction. It is the only
exercise of itwhich is allowed in such a case. For
the act of Congress directs, that "1no other error
shall be assigned or regarded as a ground of reversal, in any such case as -aforesaid, than such as appears on the face of the record, and immediately respects the before mentioned questions of validity or
constrtiction of the said constitution, treaties," &c.
The whole merits of this case, then, consist in the
construction of the constitution and the act of Con-

42-9
1821.
Cohens

v.
Virgi .

430

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1821.
'

Cohens

V.

Virnia.

gress.

The jurisdiction of the Court, if acknow-

ledged, goes no farther. This we are required to
do without the exercise ofjurisdiction.
The counsel for the State of Virginia have, in support of this motion, urged many arguments of great
weight against the application of the act of Congress to such a case as this; but those arguments go
to the construction of the constitution, or of the law,
or of both, and seem, therefore, rather calculated to
sustain their cause upon its merits, than to prove a
failure of junsdiction in the Court.
After having bestowed upon this question the most
ddliberate, consideration of which we are capable, .the
Court is unanimously of opimon, that the objections
to its j urisdiction are not sautained, and thatthe.motion ought to be 6veiruled.
Motion- den'ied.

arch 2.

The cause was this day argued on the merits.
Mr. 'D. B. -Ogden, for the plaintiffs in error, stated, that the question of conflict between the act of
Congres&, and the- State law, which arose upon the
record, depended upon the 8th section of the first
article of the constitution, giving to Congress the
exclusive power of legislation, in all cases whatsoever,
over the District which had become the seat of the
government of the United States, by cession from
the States to whom it formerly belonged. Under
this power, Congress has authorized the establishment of a lottery at the seat of government. Can

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1821.
the State of Virginia prevent the sale of tickets in
that lottery within her territory, consistently with Cohens
v.
This question must depend upon
the constitution
Virginia.
Congress,
of
power
the nature of the constitutional
and of the law by which it is exercised. It was
said by the counsel for the defendant in error, on the
former argument, that the power is municipal, to be
exercised over the District only, and, of course, confined in its operation to the limits of the District.
But, in order to determine whether this is the true
interpretation of the clause in question, we must
more minutely examine what is the nature of the
authority granted. The clause was not intended to
give to Congress an unlimited power to legislate in
all cases, without reference to other provisions of the
constitution. Otherwise Congress might pass bills
of attainder and ex post facto laws, and exercise a
despotic authority over the District of Columbia.
and its citizens would thus be deprived of their rights
entirely. Nor was it intended to authorize the exercise by Congress of its general powers as a national legislature, within the District. Nor to exempt the District from the operatton of those general powers. But the clause was inserted fqr the
purpose of securing the independence of the national
legislature, and government, Irom. State control.
The object in view was, therefore, strictly a riat~uual
object. The District was created only for national
purposes, and every law passed for its government is
peculiarly -a national law The.-words, " exclusive

CASES IN THE SUPRE-ME COURT

182h
Cohens

V.

Virginia.

legislation inall cases whatsoever," were meant to
exclude all State legislative power, and to vest in
Congress,. in. additron to its general powers over the
whole Union, all possible powers of legislation over
the District. The law in question, is the expression
of the, national will on a national object. It is, then,
an act of the general legislativ.epower of the Union,
and its operation must 'be co-extensive with the limits-of the Union, unless it is limited to the District
of. Columbia in express terms, or from the nature of
the power itself being incapable of .acting without
the District That' the whole Union has an interest
"n the City of.Washington, as the national capital, is
shown by the cotemporaneous exposition of-tbe constitution by its framers, and by the subsequent acts
otthe national legislature,, providing for-its improve"mentand embellishment. It is admitted, that some
'of.the provisions of the- law now in. question., are
local in their very nature, and, therefore, confined
to the City, or thp District, in -their operation. But
the power of. the- Corporation.to establish- lotteries,
with the consent of the President, is not of this nattre. Lottery tickets are an article of commerce,
vendible in every part -of the Union, as well as in the
District of:Columbm. A State law which forbids a
citizen to sell or buy a ticket in a lottery, legally
established by the national legislature, for national
purposes' infringes the constitutional rights of the
citizen, and tends to impede 'and defeat the. exercise
of this national power. He cannot be .punished by
a State, for selling or buying that which Congress

OF THE UNITED STATES.

has, in the exercise of a great national power, authorized -to .be bought or sold. The authority of
establishing this lottery, so far from being confined
to the City, could not be conveniently or effectually
exercised without extending the saleable quality of
the tickets throughout the Union. As a source of
revenue, it would b6 inadequate to the objects for
which it was established, without this extension. It
is not one of the ordinary sources of revenue"for the
mere municipal wants of the City. It is a national
grant for national purposes, to be used in each particular instance, with the approbation of the Prestdent. It is, then, a national law,. enacted for a national purpose, and -has no other limits in its operation than the limits of the legislative power itself.
If'Congress had intended to confine its operation
within the District of Columbia, they would have
If,.then, Congress have a
expressed that intentiom
right to raise a reveiue, for any national purpose, by
establishing a lottery, they had a right to establish
this lottery, and no State law can defeat this, any
more than the exercise of any other national power.
But even supposing that it is not a tax or duty, such
as Congress have the express power of establishing;
yet if it be necessary and, proper, in the judgment of
the Court, to carry into effect any power expressly
granted,.such as that.of establishing and governing
the City, it may be exercised throughout the Union.
Congress have the same power to -establish lotteries
for this purpose, as the State legislatures, and every
other legislature, have. The only difference is, that
VoL. VI

55

43
ismr.
'0"*'

V.
Virg"a.

434

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

with Congress it is the exetcise of a national power,
Sand must, therefore, be co-extensive in its operation
Cohens
v.
with the Union, although the money to be raised by
Virgina. it cannot be applied to. the use of any other City in
1821.

the Union than-thatwhich'is the national capital, and
in which, cbnsuquently, all the- States, and all the
people, have a common interest.
Mr. Webster, contra, insisted,-that Congress had
not the power, .under the constitution,-of establishing
a lottery in the District.of Columbia, for municipal
purposes) and of forcing the sale -of the tickets
throughout the Union, in contravention of the State
litws ; and, that even if.they had the power, the law
now in question did -not purport to authorize the
Corporation of the City of Washington thus to forte
the sale of the tickets. It is clear .that Congressi as
a legislative body, exercise two species of legislative
power - the one, limited as to its objects2 but extending.all over the Union: -the other, an absolute, exclusive legislative power ov&r-the District of Columbia. The preliminary inquiry in the case now be.
fore the Court, is, by virtue of which of these authorities was the law in question passed 9 When this is
ascertained, we shall be able to determine its extent
and application. In this country, we-are trying the
novel experiment of .a divided sovereignty, between
the national government and the States. The precise line of division between these is not always distinctly marked. Government is a moral not a mathematical science, and the powers e1 such a-government especially, cannot be defined with mathe-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

435

matical accuracy and precision. There is a compe1821.
tition of opposite analogies. We arrive at a just Cohens
conclusion by reasoning from these analogies, and
v.
by a general regard to the objects and purposes of Virginia.
this scheme of government. With a view to the present question, it may, perhaps, be safely admitted,
that there are certain acts of legislation passed by
Congress. with a local reference to this District,
which proceed from the general powers with which
Congress are invested. They are local in their immediate operation and effect, but they are passed in
virtue of general legislative powers. Such are the
acts appropriating moneys for constructing the navy
yard and the capitol. Some other acts are of a
mixed nature. There are others clearly local, and
passed in virtue of the local, exclusive jurisdiction.
And of this latter class is the act now under consideration. It is for the establishment -f a local City
government, which arises from the exclusive power
of legislation; and the clause authorizing the establishment of'lotteries, is comijined with other clauses
of a mere mun cipal character Noscitur a sociis.
Every act of legislation must be limited by its subject matter, and there is nothing to show that this
power is to be exercised more extensively than the
other powers of the Corporation , nothing to show
that this municipal power is to be carried beyond
the City. It may be exercised within the City
alone, and Congress has not said, and.the Court cannot intend, that it is to be exercised in other parts of
the Ufiion. Congress could not give such a charter
to any other city in the Union, and if every federal

4M
1821.
Cohend

v,
Virgima.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

power granted in the constiltiion were destroyed,
this power would remain. It exists independently,
and thelegislative powers. of the States can nevet
conflict with it, because it can never operate within
the States. Being a case of mere local legislation,
it is not a casus fr.deris within that clause of the
constitution which declares that the laws of the
United States shall be the supreme law of.the-lad,
There can be no question of supremacy and .,subordination where there is.no connection or conflict.
The cQnstitutionmaies this provision, because othei
legislative powers were -to operate throughiout the
Union; the Congress and the States were to legislate over the same subjects, and over the same -territory, -and ther :fore there might be conflict. It..wa,
because the two codes were to prevail in the same
places, and over the same- persons. But the provision cannot exteid .to laws enacted'by 'Congress fbi
the mere local .municipal government of the City.
because the reason on which, it is 'founded does not
extend W a case where all legislation is necessarily
exclusive. There was no more reason in' this instance to provide for a conflict of the two. authon.
ties, than in the case.of the laws of a foreign State,
which, except in the familiar example of quest-ions
relative to the lex loce -contractus,cannot- come in
collision with our own laws, because they cannot
operate extra-territorially. So here, from the .vpry
nature of things, there can arise no conflict between
the local laws of the -District of Columbia, and those
of the States, because each code is confined to its
owh territory. Any spund interpretation of the law

OF THE-UNITED STATES.

437

iem.
in question, must liunit it to the City of Washingtoir.
It does not even. extend to the other municipal •Cor- -Coheas
V.
poranons within tbe.District of Columbia, becauge
Vfikma.
government
the
it. contains provisions expressly for
of-Washington alonei and, does not profess to extend any of them beyond the limits of -that City. A
law cannot exceed the authority of the -lawgiver,
and that does not extend beyond the District, and is
limited in its actual exercise to the City. There is
no authority showing that a grant. of power of this
kind to a municipal Corporation,:extends beyond the
local limits of the City.
The Attorney- General,for the plaintiffsin error, in
reply, contended. that Congress, in passing the law
under consideration, acted in thename of the whole
nation, and for a great national object. Congress
did not, as contended in the argument on the j urisdiction of the Court, succeed, by the cession, merely
to the legislative powers of Maryland and Virginia,
over this. District., They are not the trustees of
those States only, they are the trustees of the whole
Union. The cession was to the Congress and government of the United States. The -urisdiction
over the territory belongs to the entire. people of the
United States. It Is not the power of Maryland and
Virginia which Congress represents, but the 'power of
all the States, and the terriiory .ceded is to be looked
at, not with reference to its origin, not as still forming
ideally a part of Maryland and Virginia, but is to.be
regarded as if incorporated into every State in the
Union. The question is not, then. to be olved by ask-

438
1821.

"oo
Cohens
v1.

Virginia.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

ing what those States could do with respect to this territory, but what each State of the Union could do
with regard to its own territory because, to borrow
an expression from the municipal law, each State of
the Union is seized jointly with all the rest, per me
etper tout, of the whole jurisdiction over this territory. The acts of the Congress in legislating for
the District of Columbia are the acts of all the people of all the States. It is therefore a fallacy in argument to represent Congress as succeeding merely
to the same degree of power which Maryland and
-Virginia formerly had over this territory. Could
those States have taxed the other States, or borrowed money on their credit, for the improvement
of'this territory, as Congress have done:' Although
the jurisdiction of the States who formerly:held the
sovereignty and domain of this territory has been
supplanted by Congress, the substituted jurisdiction
is far more extensive than that Which they held. It
is a jurisdiction, which in the inhstances mentioned,
and many others which might be enumerated, is capable of affecting all the States. It cannot be demied that the character of the jurisdiction which
Congress has over the District, is widely different
from that which it has over the States, for, over
them, Congress has not exclusive jurisdiction. Its
powers over the States are those only which are specifically given, and those which are necessary to
carry them into effect whilst over the Districtit has
all the powers which it has over the States, and in
addition to these, a power of legislation exclusive of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

-all the States. But althouih the jurisdiction over
the District is of a diflbrent and more extensive character, yet it is not so circumscribed that it may not

incidentally affect the States, although exerted for a
local purpose, as it is called. Such is sometimes the
delusive effect:of single words and .phrases, that the
position, that in legislatig for the District of Colombia, Congress is a local legislature, Ibr local purposes, and therefore cannot affect the States by its
laws,'has almost become an aphorism with indolent
or prejildiced inquirers. But in what sense can that
be called a local govefnment which proceeds fibm
the whole body of the iation P And how can that be
termed a local object, Which is closdly and inseparably connected with the geneial interest of the whole
.people of the Union P As well might it be -asserted
that Congress acted as a local legislature, when it
established offides for the sale of lands in the wdstern
States, or fortifications at particular 'points on the
sea-coast. It will not be'pretended that the first establishmerit of the seat of government in thi's District, was an act done by Congress :m'its character
of a local legislature, and for local -purposes. How
then can the subsequent acts for the improvement.
and embellishment of the City be so regarded P The
act of May'6th, 1796, authorized the commissioners
for erecting the public butildings to borrow money
for that purpose. Would it have been competent"for

the legislatures of the States to have impede d,thni
loan by punishin their citizens for "subscribing to
this stock P And could the States prohibit the sale
of the City-lots within their territory, and thus ar-

439
1821.
Cobens

v.
Virginma.

440

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1821.

hn

v.
Virginia.

rest the improvement of the City P And if they could
not, is it not because what Congress in the legitimate exercise of its powers has made it lawful to
sell, the States cannot make it unlawful to buy P
Let us test by these considerations the question before the Court and let us distinguish between Congress legislating for the municipal government of
the City, and Congress, in its national eharacter
providing the means of adding necessary public improvements to the national capital. Congress has
itself made this distinction. When a regulation for
the mere internal police of the City is to be made, it
is done by the Corporation, or some other inferior
agent, without the interference of the President of
the-United States. But, when an alteration of -the
plan of the City, or. a public improvement affecting
the whole of the City in a national point of view, is
to be made, it is uniformly subj'ected to the control
of the President. So here the specific purpose in
view, and for which the lottery was authorized by
the President, was, the establishment of a City Hall.
a necessary consequence of the establishment of the
City, which last was also a necessary consequence
of the establishment of the seat of government.

Mardi

CIi.

The opinion of the Court was delivered by Mr
Chief Justice MARSHALL.
Trhis case was stated in the opinion given on the
motion f6r dismissing the writ of error for want of
jurisdiction in the Court. It now comes on to be
decided on the question whether the Borough Court
of Norfolk. in overruling the defence set iin tinder

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the act of Congress, has misconstrued that act. It 2s2.
is in these words.
Cohiens
" The said Corporation shall have full power to
v.
Virgwia.
any
effectig
for
authorize the drawing of lotteries
Important improvement in th Pity, which the ordinary funds or revenue th.ereof il not accomplish:
Provided, that the sum to. be raised in each year
shall not exceed the amount of 10,000 dollars: And
provided, also, that the object for which the money
is intended to be raised shall be -first submitted to
the President of the United States, and shall be approved of by him."
Two questions arise on this act.
1st. Does it purport to authorize the Corporation
to force the sale of these lottery tickets in States
where such sales may be prohibited by law P If it
does,

2d. Is the law constitutionalP
If the first question be answered in the affirmative,
it will become necessary to consider the second. If
it should be answered in the negative, it will be unnecessary, and consequently improper, to pursue any
inquiries, which would then be merely speculative,
respecting the power of Congress in the case.
In inquiring into the extent of the power granted coT"e-ofem.
poweralg the
to the Corporation of Washington, we wiust first ex- corporation of
the City of
Washingtontheto
amine the words of the grant. We find in them no authorize
da5, or l.
expression which looks beyond the limits of the City. teries.
oes not
ad
p,
natheir
in
The powers granted are all of them local
ed. to autlor
ture, and all of them such as would, in the common irete Cbo
course of things, if not necessarily, be exercised the sale of the
Vo.

V[.

56

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.
Cohens

v.

Virginia.
tickets

within the city. The subject on which Congress
was employed when framing this act was a local
subject, it was not the establishment of a lottery,
but the formation of a separate body for the ma-

such
whre

in

nagernent of the ii. ernal affairs of the City, for its
,brinternal government, for its police. Congress must
state laws.
have considered itself as delegating to this corporate
St.es

,h

body powers for these objects, and for these objects
solely. In delegating these powers, therefore, it
seems reasonable to suppose that the mind of the legislature was directed to the City alone, to the action of the being they were creating within the City,
and not to any extra-territorial operations. In describing the pnwers of such a being, no words of limitation need be used. They are limited by the
subject. But, if it be intended to give its acts a
binding efficacy beyond the natural limits of its
power, and within the jurisdiction of a distinct
power, we should expect to find, in the language of
the incorporating act, some words indicating such
intention.
Without such words, we cannot suppose that Congress designed to give to the acts of the Corporation any other effect, beyond its limits, than attends
every act having the sa'nction of local law, when any
thilg depends uon it which is to be transacted elseWhere.
If this would be the reasonable construction of
corporate powers generally it is more especially
proper in a case where an attempt is made so to exercise those powers as to control and limit the penal
laws of a State. This is an operation which was not,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

W3:

we think, in the, contemplation of the legislature,
1821.
while incorporating the City of A ashington.
Cohere
v.
To interfere with the penal laws of a State, where
Virginia.
they are not levelled against the legitimate powers of
the Union, but have for their sole object the internal
government of the country, is a very serious measure, which Congress cannot be supposed to adopt
lightly, or inconsiderately. The motives for it must
be serious and weighty. It would be taken deliberately, and the intention would be clearly and unequivocally expressed.
An act, such as that, under consideration, ought
not, we think, to be so construed as to imply this intention, unless its provisions were such as to render
the construction inevitable.
We do not think it essential to the corporate
power in question, that it should be exercised out of
the City Could. the lottery be drawn in any State
of the Union Does the corporate power to authorize.the drawing of a lottery imply a power to authorize its being drawn without the jurisdiction of a
Corporation, in a place where it may be prohibited
by law P rhis, we think, would scarcely be asserted.
And. what clear legal distinction can be taken between a power to draw a lottery in a place where it
is prohibited by law, and a power to establish an
office for the sale of tickets in a place where it is
prohibited by law P It may be urged, that the place
where the lottery is drawn is of no importance to the
Corporation, and therefore the act need not be so
construed as to give power over the Piace, but that
the right to sell tickets throughout the United

AAA.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.

Cohens

V.

Virga.

States is of importance, and thereforb ought to be
implied.
That the power to sell tickets in every part of
the United States might facilitate their sale, is not
to be denied; but it does not follow that Congress
designed, for the purpose of giving this increased
facility, to overrule the penal laws of the several
States. In the City of Washington, the great metropolis of the nation, visited by individuals, from
every part of the Union, tickets may be-freely sold
to all who are willing to purchase. Can it- be affirmed that this is so limited a market, that the incorporating act must be extended.beyond its words,
and made. to conflict with the internal police of the
States, unless it be construed to give a more extensive marketP
It has been said, that the States cannot make it
unlawful to buy that 'which Congress has made it
lawful to sell.
This proposition is not denied , and, therefore,
the validity of a law punishing a citizen of Virginia
for purchasing a ticket in the City of Washington,
might well be drawn into question. Such a law
would be a direct attempt to counteract and defeat a
measure authorized by the United States. But a
law to punish the sale. of lottery tickets in Virginia,
is of a different character. Before we can impeach
its validity, we must inquire whether Congress intended to empower this Corporation to do any act
within a State which the laws of that State might
prohibit.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

445

1821.
In addition to the very important circumstance,
that the act contains no words indicating such inten- Cohens
v.
tion and that this extensive construction is not esVirgima.
the
power,
corporate
the
of
execution
the
to
sential
Court cannot resist the conviction, that the intention
ascribed to this act, had it existed, would have been
executed by very different means from those which
have been employed.
Had Congress intended to establish a lottery for
those improvements in the City which are deemed
national, the lottery itself would have become the
subject of legislative consideration. It would be
organized by law. and agents for its execution would
be appointed by the President, or in such other manner as the law might direct. If such agents were
to act out of the District, there would be, probably,
ome provision made for such a state of things, and
in-making such provisions Congress would examine
its power to make them. The whole subject would
be under the control of the government, or of persons appointed by the government.
But in this case no lottery is established by law,
no control is exercied by the government over any
which may be established. The lottery emanates
from-a corporate power. The Corporation may authorize, or not authorize it, and may select the purposes to which the proceeds are to be applied. This
Corporation i$ a being intended for local obects
only. All its capacites are limited to the City.
This, as well as every other law it is capable of
inaking, is a by-law, and, from its nature, is only
to-extensive with the City. It is not probable that

446

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT-

such an agent would be employed in the execution
of a lottery established by Congress, but when it
Cobens
V.
acts, not as the agent for carrying into effect a lottery
v'i-grma. established by Congress, but in its own corporate
181.

'

capacity, from its own corporate powers, it is reasonable to suppose that its acts were intended to partake of the nature of that capacity and of those
powers, and, like alr its other acts, be merely local
in its nature.
The proceeds of these lotteries are to come in aid
of the revenues of the City. These revenues are
raised by laws whose operation is entirely local, and
for objects which are also:local , for no person will
suppose, that the President's house, the Capitol, the
Navy Yard, or other public'- institution, was to be
benefitted by these lotteries, or was to form a charge
on the City revenue. Coming in aid of'the City revenue., they are of the same character with it.; the
mere creature of a corporate power.
The circumstances, that the lottery cannot -be
drawn without the permission of the President, and
that this resource is to be used only for important
improvements, have been relied on as giving to this
corporate power a more extensive operation -than is
given to those with which it is associated. We do
not think so.
The President has no agency in the lottery. It
does not originate with him, nor is the improvement
to which its profits are to be applied to be selected
by him. Congress has not enlarged the corporate
power by restricting its exercise to cases of Which
the President might approve.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

447

1821.
We very readily admit, that the act establishing
the seat of government, and the act appointing com- Cohens
V.
missioners to superintend the public buildings, are
laws of universal obligation. We admit, too, that Virgia.
the laws of any State to defeat the loan authorized
by Congress, would have been void, as would have
been any attempt to arrest the progress of the canal,
or of any other measure which Congress may adopt.
These, and all other laws relative to theDistrict,
have the authority which may be .claimed by other
acts of the national legislature, but their extent is
to be determined by those rules of construction
which are applicable to all laws. The act incorporating the City of Washington is, unquestionably, of
universal obligation , but the extent of the corporate
powers conferred by that act, is to be determined by
those considerations which -belong to the case.
Whether we consider the general character of a
law incorporating -a City, the objects for which such
law is usually made, or the words in which this
particular power is conferred, we arrive at the same
result. The Corporation was merely empowered to
authorize the drawing of lotteries, and the mind of
Congress was not directed to any provision for the
sale of the tickets beyond the limits of the Corporation. That subject does not seem to have been taken
into view. It is the unanimous opinion of the
Court, that the law cannot be construed to embrace it.
Judgment affirmed.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

448
1821.

JUDGMENT.

This cause came on to be heard on

Gibbons
v.

transcript of the record of the Quarterly Session
Court for the Borough of Norfolk, in the Corn-

Ogden.

monwealth of Virginia, and was argued by counsel.

'the

On consideration whereof,

It

IS ADJtUDGED and oR-

that the judgment of the said Quarterly Session Court for the Borough of Norfolk, in this case,
be, and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.
DERED,

(P ACTIce.)

GIBBONS V. OGDEN.

A decree of the highest Court of Equity of a State, affirming the de,
cretal order of an inferior Court of Equity of the same State, refusing to dissolve an injunction granted on the filing of the bill, is not
a final d'cree within the 25th section of the judiciary act of 1789,

c. 20. from which an appeal lies to this Court,

from the Court for the Trial of Impeachments and the Correction of Errors of the State of
New-York.
This was a bill filed by the plaintiff .:below, (Ogden,) against the defendant below, (Gibbons,) in the
Court of Chancery of the State of New-York, for
an injunction to restrain the defendant from navigating certain steam boats on the waters of the State
of New-York, lying between Elizabethtown, in the
State of New-Jersey, and the City of New-York:
APPEAL

