OF THE UNITED STATES.

farther. The judgment against Samuel Bartle
is erroneous, and as it is joint, it must be reversed
against botb.
Judgment reversed.

(C3L4NCERY.)

PREVOST Y. GRATZ

et aL.

GRATZ et aL. v. PREVoST.
To eitablish the exjstence of a trust, the onus probandi lies on the
party who alleges it.
In general, length of time is no bar to a trust clearly established to
have once existed, and where fraud is imputed and proved, length
of time ought not to exclude relief.
But as length of time necessarily obscures all human evidence, and
deprives parties of the means of ascertaining the nature of the original transactions, it operates, by way of preAumption, in Favour of
innocence, and against imputation of fraud;
The lapse of forty years, and the death of all the original parties.
deelned sufficient to presume the~discharge and extinguishment of a
trust, proved once to have existed by strong circumstances; by
analogy to the rule of law, which after a lapse of time presumes-the
payment of a debt, surrender of a-deed, and extinguishment of a
trust, where circumstances require it.

APPEAL from the Citcuit Court of Pennsylvania.
This was a bill in Chancery, filed in the Court
below, by the plaintiff George W. Prevost, as adminisfrator de boniis non, with the will annexed, of
VOL. VI.

61

481
1821.
Prevost

V.

Gratz.

482

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1821.
Prevost,
P

v.

Gratz.

George Croghan, deceased, against the defendants
Simon Gratz, Joseph Gratz, and Jacob Gratz, adnimstrators of the estate of Michael Gratz, deceased,
for a discovery and account of all the estate of G.
Croghan, which had come to their hands,, or possession, either personally or. as -the representatives of
M. Gratz, who was one of the executors of G.
Croahan, who died in August, 1782, havingappointed
M. Gratz, B. Gratz, T. Smallman, J. Tunis, and W.
Powell, executors of his last. will and testament.
All the executors, except W. Powell, died before the
commencement of the suit. B. Gratz died in 1800,
and M. Gratz in. 1811. W. Powell was removed
from his office as executor inthe, manner prescribed
by the laws of Pennsylvania, after the death of .
Gratz, and he plaintiff was thereupon appointed
administrator de borns non, with the will annexed.
The bill charged M. Gratz and B. Gratz, (the representatives of B. Gratz not being made parties,)
with sundry breaches of trust in respect to property
conveyed to them in the lifetime.of the testator, and
with other breaches of trust in relation to the assets
of the testator after his decease; and also charged
the defendants with neglect of duty in relation to the
property and papers of G. Croghan, which had come
to their hands since the decease of M. Gratz.
The first ground of complaint, on the part
of the plaintiff, rM'lated to a tract of land lying
on Tenederah river, in the State of New-York,
which was conveyed by G. Croghan to M. Gratz,
as containing 9,050 acres, by deed, dated the 2d of
March, 1770, for the consideration expressed in the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

deed of £1,800.

The deed was upon its face abso-

lute, and contained the covenants of general war-

ranty, and for the title of the grantor, which are
usual in absolute deeds. At the tume of the execution of the deed, G. Croghan was in, the State of
New-York, and M. Gratz was at Philadelphia.
The land, thus conveyed, was, in the year 1795, and
after the death of G. Croghan, sold, by M. Gratz,
to one Lawrence, in New-York, for a large sum of
money. The plaintiff alleged, that this conveyance
made by G. Croghan to M. Gratz, though in form
absolute, was in reality a conveyance upon a secret
trust, to be sold for the benefit of the grantor ; and
he claimed to be allowed the value of the lands at
the time the present suit was brought, upon the
ground of a fraudulent or improper breach of trust
by the grantee, or at all events to the full amount of
the profits made upon the sale in 1795, with interest
up. to the time of the decree. This trust was denied
by the defendants, in their answer, so far as respects
their own knowledge and belief; and if it did ever
exist, they insisted, that the land was afterwards
purchased by M. Gratz, with the consent of G.
Croghan, for the sum of £850 15s. bd. New-York
currency. It appeared from the evidence, that G.
Croghan, and B. and M. Gratz, were intimately acquainted with each other, and a variety of accouits
were settled between them, -from the year 1769, to
a short period before the death of G. Croghan: that
he was involved in pecuniary embarrasments, and
extensively engaged in land speculations and some
portions of his property were conveyed to one or

483
is21.
1-'
Prevost

v.

Gram

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

484
1821.

""
Prevost
V.

rat'.

both the Messrs. Gratz upon express and open trusts.
It also appeared, that in an account which.was settled at Pittsburg, in May, 1775, between B. and M.
Gratz, and G. Croghan, there was the following
item of credit S.August, 1774. By cash received
of Howard, for 9,000 acres of
land-on Tenederab, sold him for
£850 15s. New-York currency,
is here,

.

.

.

.

£797 12 6

hinterest on-£797 1.2s. 6d. from August. 1774, to May, 1775, is eight
months, at 6 per cent.

-

-

31 18 1

£829 10 7
lUpon the back of another account between B. &
M. Gratz and G. Croglian, which was rendered to
the latter in December, 17 79, there was a memorandum in the hand-writing of G.. Croghan, in which he
-enumerates the debts thei due by" him to B. & M.
Gratz, amounting to £1,220 1s. 2d. and'-thenadds
the following, words. "1paid-of the above £1144
York currency, besides the deed for the land. on the
Tenederah river 9,000 acres patented -" which memorandum appeared to have been made after the
conveyance of the land to M. Gratz. It also appeared. that the vilue of the land, as fixed in the account of May, 1775, was its full value, which was
proved by public sales of adjoining lands at the same
period when Howard was asserted to have purchased the land. A counterpart of the account 6f 1775

OF THE UNITED'-STATES.

was also in the possession of M. Gratz, in which the
word Howard was. .crossed out with. a pen, but so
that it was -still perfectly legible,.and the name of
written
.Mic ael Gratz, in his. own hand-writing,
over it. M. Gratz continued in possession of the
Tenedergh land, paid great attention to it, and incurred-great expenses in making improvements on it,
after the year 1786: The mother of the plaintiff
was the .heir of G. Croghan, and it was proved that
his father had unreserved and frequent access to the
papers of G. Croghan, and resided several years in
Philadelphia, with the vie-w of ilivestigating the situation of the estate, and finally abandoned all -hopes
of deriving any benefit from it. The account of
May, 1775, from which-the allbged trust was sought
to be proved, was delivered over to him by the representatives of M. Gratz, among the other papers
of G. Croghan.
The second principal ground of the plaintiff's
complaut respected a judgment obtained by the representatives of one W M'Ilvaine, against G. Croghan, which was purchased by B. Gratz, during the
life-time of G. Croghan, and was by him assigned to
S. Gratz, one of the defendants, who, under one or more
executions issued on that judgme.;t, became the purchaser of certain lands belonging to G. Croghan. It
appeared, that on the 30th ofMarch, 1769, G. Croghan
gave)is bond to W M'Ilvaine, for the sum of f£A00,
which debt by the will of M'Illvaine, became on his
death vested in his widow, who afterwards intermarFlied with J. Clark. A judgment was obtained upon
the bond against G. Croghan, in the name of W.

485
1821.
Prevost

V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

486
1821.
'
Prevost

r.

Gratz.

Humphreys, executor of M'lvaine, in the Court of
Common Pleas in Westmoreland County, Pennsylvania, at the October term, 1774, upon which a
fi.fa. issued, returnable to the April term of the same
Court, in 1775. On the 8th of March preceding
the return day of thefi.fa. Bernard Grat z purchased thisjudgment from Clark, and received an assignment of it, for which he gave his own bond for
£300, and interest. About this time G. Croghan
was considerably embarrassed, and several suits
were depending against him. Bernard Gratz, having failed to pay his bond, was sued by Clark, and
in 1794 a judgment was recovered against him for
£89 6s. 10d. the balance then clue upon the bond,
which sum was afterwards paid by M. Gratz. The
judgment of Humphreys against G. Croghan was
kept alive from time to time, until 1786, and in that
year, on thedeath of Humphreys, J. Bloomfield was
appointed administrator de bonts non with the will
annexed of Humphreys, and revived the judgment$
and it was kept in full force until it was finally levied on certain lands of G. Croghan. In the year
1800, B. Gratz assigned this judgment to his nephew, S. Gratz, one of the defendants, partly in consideration of natural affection, and partly in consideration of the above sum of £89 6s. 10d. paid towards the discharge of the bond of B. Gratz, by his
(Simon's) father, M. Gratz. S. Gratz, having thus
become the beneficial owner of the judgment, proceeded'to issue execution thereon, at different times,
between September, 1801, and November, 1804,
caused the same to be levied on sundry tracts of land

OF VIM

=TED STATES.

of G. Croghan, m Westmoreland and Huntington
counties, of five of which le, being the highest bidder at the sale, became tbe.purchaser; The tracts
thus sold, "contained upwards of ,000 acres, and
were sold for- little more than 1,000 dollars. The
title to some part. of this land is still io controversy.
Shortly after the assignment of the judgment to B.
Gratz, on the 16th of May, .1775, G. Croghan, by
two deeds of that late, conveyed to B. Gratz, for a
valuable consideration therein expressed, about
45,000. acres of land, A declaration of trust was executed. by B. Gratz on the- 2d of*June,'!770i .by
which he ackqowledged that these conveyances were
in trust to enable him to sell the .same, and with the
proceeds to discharge certain enUmerated debts of G.
CUoghan3 and among them the debt due on the M'Ilvaine bond, and to account for the residue to G.
Croghan.
The bill"charged, that'the assignment of this judgment was procured by 3. and M. Gratz, or both of
them, after the death of G. Croghan, and that nothing was-dueupbn thejudgment, or if any thing was
due, it was.paid upon the assignment out of'moneys
belonging -to the ,estate of G. Croghan.. But the
evidence disproved Ibese charges, and showed, that
the assignment was made-to-B. (iratz in the lifetime
of G. Croghan, and that the juedgniet never was
paid or satisfied -by 0, Croghan,or out of his estat&.
The defendants, in their'aziswer, deiied, to their
best knowledge and.belief, all-the material charges
of the bill; and upon replication, the cause was heard
in the Court below- upo.n the bill, answer, evidence.

487
i82.
v.
Grat.

488

CASES IN TH9 SUPREME. COURT

1821.
Prevost

v.

Grat.

Feriu~ith.

and exhibits, and a decree was pronounced dis'
missing the bill as to all the charges, except that respecting the lands lying on Tenedprah river, and
as to this, a decree was pronounced in favour of the
plaintiff for all the profits made upon a sale of those
lands by M. Gratz. From this decree, both parties
appealed to this Court.
Mr. Webster and Mr. D. B. Ogden, for the plain
tiff,,argued, (I.) That not only ought M. Gratw'to
be considered as a trustee of the Tenederah lands,
but a decree ought to have been given for the value
of the-lands at the date of the decree, instead of the
amount for. which the lands were sold by. him.
They insisted, that the orrginal existence of the trust
was fully proved by the evidence, and.being thus
clearly established, the burtheil of.proof was on the
defendants to show how, and by what means, it had
been discharged. M. Gratz being a trustee to sell,
he couldnot buy.' This is the uiiiversal, inflexible
rule of a -Couit of equity; and- even if the trust is
to pay a debt due to the trustee himself, still he is a
trustee for the surplus, subject to the. same prohibition : and in this casenever having sold the land in
execution of the trust,. he must now be regarded as
still holding it; and ought to be accouiltable for its
value at the present time, and not at the time of the
pretended sale. If he now- held the land, the Court
would compel him to account for its present value,
a 10 .'es. 423. 1 M'es. sen. 9. 2 Bro. Ch- Rep. 400. * Jomn,
CA7.Rep. 252. 5 res. 7Q4. 4 Vis. 497. 6 P'es. 631.

.OF THE UNITED-STATES.

Qr to, reconvey it I but he does hold it in equity, and
no act of his ought to prejudice the cestuz que trust.
The lapse of time is nothing, unless it appear that
he knew the purchase by the trustee, and must,
therefore, be presumed -to have acquiesced." But
here no such knowledge is proved, and, therefore, no
such acquiescence can be presumed. (2..) They
insisted, that S. Gratz had no -right to purchase the
lands sold at .the sheriff's sale under the M'llvaine
judgment, but under the circumstances of the case
ought to be considered as holding them in trust foc
the plaintiff. This being a proceeding- withgut anry
notice to, -the party interested, cannot be sustained.
The notice given by the sczre facwas was only-to B.
Gratz, the executor of G. Croghan: that is, the
owner of the. judgment revived it by notice to himself. It is a settled principle, that an executor cannot purchase the property of his testator ;' and the
purchaser of an equity takes it .sulbject to all claims.
Besides, this is a judgment which the law would presume to be satisfied from length of time, which it
attempted to be .executed by the judgment creditor
who has in his own hands th funds with which it
was to be satisfied, and thus attempts to convert a
legal right into an instrument of injustice, which
forms a strong ground for equitable relief.'
Mr. Pinfiney and Mr. Sergeant, contra, contended,
(1.) That the present plaintiff had no right, alone,
to call the defendants -to account for the alleged trust
a 12 Ves.
VOL. V1.

b , Johns. C7 . Rep. 252.
62

c 3 Ves.qgn. 170.

4A9
182L
Prevost

V.
Grat.

490
1821.

CASE

r

Prevost

V.
Caatz,

IN THE SUPREME COURT

as to the Tenederah lands, nor jointly 'with other
parties -as the administrator de bons non, with the
will annexed, of G. Croghan. Equitable estates descend as well as legal estates. Mrs. Prevost, the
heir of Craghan,. died, while the supposed trust existed, leaving several children, besides the plaintiff,
who-ought also to have been made parties, if he is
to be considered as suing as a parcener. Tife sale
,of the- trust -estate indeed extinguishes the right of
the heirs to the -land, but it entitles them to the money for-which it was sold, which now represents and
itands inthe-place of the land. Nor- has Croghan's
will any effect upon the matter. The will empowers a majority of his executors, (of whom B. Gratz
dqring his life was always to be one,) to sell such of
his lands as they should think fit, for the payment of
his debts. It does not devise to the executors to be
sold, but gives them a naked authority to sell and
convey. Even admitting that the Tenederah lands
fell within the authority, the executors could only
have sold the equitable estate of Croghan, which on
his death des~ended to his heir. But this supposes
that very equitable estate, for the existence of which
wecontend. But the executors did not sell thatequitable estate. M. Gratz, though one of those executors,
did not sell under the will. He sold, not the equitable interest merely, but the whole estate, and threw
the equitable claimants under Croghan, upon the
surplus of the proceeds which he could not appropriate. To sell under the will, he must have had
the sanction of the other executors, which he had
not, and the plaintiff as administrator de bons non,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

could not have authorized it, because he did not become administrator until M. Gratz had rendered a
sale by his orders or consent impossible. The will,
therefore, did not reach the case, and cannot
now, in any degree, control it. Nor does the interest which creditors may have in. the proceeds,
make it personal estate in Croghan, or subject it to
the control of his administrator de bons -non.
(2.) The counsel argued that there was no sufficient proof of the existence of any such trust, as
that alleged respecting the Tenederah lands, but
that M. Gratz became the absolute owner of the
lands, with the knowledge and consent of Croghan.
Fraud is never to be presumed, especially after such
a lapse of time, and even if the trust ever existed,
equity will rather presume it to be satisfied, than
indulge a presumption of fraud, where the parties
are dead, and the evidence respecting the transaction
is lost.a Even if there was here a trust to sell, it
was a trust to sell for a fixed price, created by a
person of full age, and full knowledge of the circumstances, for'"he benefit only of the trustee and himself. The reason of the rule, that a trustee cannot
purchase, is, that the trustee might be tempted from
his duty, and buy at an inadequate- price. Where
the power is general, or, where other persons are interested in the execution of the trust, it may be conceived to be a salutary rule, though sometimes operating severely. But where the trustee is a creditor,
a 12 Fes. 261. 374. 2 Ves. 581. 3 P

Wins: 266. 2 .01k. 67.

3 Atk. 105. 3 Bro. Ch. Rep. 640. 2 ,cto. 4-. Lqfr 41. 71.

491
1821.

r
G
ratz.

CASES'IN THE .UPREMk COURT

iel.
"

Prevost

v.
Grot.

where the price is fixed, and no one else is interested,
it would b difficult to assign any .good reason why
the trustee might -not be the purchaser. (3.) As to
the M'Ilvaine judgment)they principally relied upon
the same grounds which are stated in the bpinion of
the Court below, quoted infra m a,note to the opimon of this Cburt in the present case.

Xfwck

lath,

Mr. Justice SToRy delivered the opinion of the
Court, and after stating the proceedings in the Court
below, proceeded as follows"
The first point upon which the cause was argued,
respects. the tract of land on the Tenederah River.
It appears from the evidence that this tract of land,
containing 9,050 acres, was conveyed by Col. Croghan to Michael Gratz, by a deed bearing date on
the 2d of March, 1770, for the congiderauon expressed
in the deed ofX 1,800.. The deed is upon its face absolute, and contains the covenants of general warranty,
and for the title of the grantor, wiuch are usual in absolute deeds, but are unnecessary in deeds of trust.
At the time of the execution of the deed, Col. Croghan was in the State of New-York, and Michael
Gratz was at Philadelphia. The land was, after the
death of Col. Croghan, and tR the year 1795, sold
by Michael Gratz, to a Mr. Lawrence, in NewYork, for a large sum of money. The plaintiff contends that this conveyance made by Col. Croghan
to Michael Gratz, though in form absolute, was id
reality a conveyance upon a secret trus, to be sold
for the benefit of the grantor, and in this view of
the case, he contends farther, that he is entitled to be

OP THE UNITED STATES.

allowed the full value of the lands at-the tine that
the present suit was brought, uponthe ground of a
fraudulent or improper breach of trust by the grabtee,
or at all events, to- the full amount of the profits
made upon the sale in 1796, with interest up to the
time of the Decree.

4"3
is21.
Prevoit

v.
Crate.

proof ofexistthe
The attention of the Court will, therefore, be di- original

the
en of
Teeted, in the first place, to the consideration of the trust
m tki
question, whether this was a conveyance in tiust,
and if so,, of what nature that-trust was; and, in thb
iext place, whether thattrust was ever lawfiully distharged or extinguished. If there -be still a subsisting trust, there can Lbino doubt that the ,plaintiff- is
entitled to some relief.
Itappears-from the- evidence that Col. Croghan,
and Bernard and Michael Gratz, were intimately
acquainted with each other, and a variety of accounts was settled -between them, from the year
1769, to 'a short period beibre. the death .of Col.
Croghan. During alltthis period, Col. Croghan appears to have had the most unbounded confidence in
them, and particularly by his will, made in June
1782, a short time before his decease, he named
them among his executors, and gave to Michael
Gratz, in consideration qf services rendered to,.him,
five thousand acres of land, and to his daughter Rachel Gratz, one thousand acres of land on Charter
Creek, with an election to take the same number of
acres in lieu thereof, in any other'lands belonging to
the testator. The situation of the parties, therefore,
was one in which secret trusts might, probably, exist, from the pecuniary embarrassments in which

494

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1i.
Prevost

v.

Gratz.

Col. Croghan appears to have been involved, as well
as from his extensive land speculations. And, in
point of fact, some portions of his property were conveyed to one or both of the Messrs. Gratz, upon express and open trusts.
Still, however, the burthen of proof to establish
the trust in controversy; lies on the plaintiff. The
circumstances on which he relies are, in our judgment, exceedingly strong in his favour, and sufficient to repel any presumption against the trust
drawn from the absolute terms of the deed. In an
account which was settled at Pittsburg, in May,
1775, between Bernard-and Michael Gratz, and Col.
Croghan, is the following item of credit.
"August, 1774. By cash received
of Howard, for 9,000 acres of
land at Tenederah, sold him for
£850 16s. New-York currency,
is here,
.
.
.
.
£797 12 6
Interest on £797 12s. 6d. from August, 1774, to May, 17.75, is eight
31 18 1
months, at 6 per cent. £829 10 7
There is no question of the identity of the land
here stated to be sold to Howard, with the tract
conveyed to Michael Gratz by the deed, in 1770. If
the conveyance to Michael Gratz had been originally
made for a valuable consideration then paid, it seems
utterly impossible to account for the allowance of this
credit upon any sale at a subsequent period. It seems

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tQus, therefore, that the only rational explanation of
Ols transaction is, that the conveyance to.Michael
Gratz, though absolute in form, was, in reality, a
trust for the benefit of Col. Croghan, What the
exact nature of this trust was, it is, perhaps, not very
easy now to ascertain with perfect certainty. It
might have been a trustto sell the lands for the benefit of Col. Croghan, and to apply the proceeds in
part payment of the ,debts due from him to Bernard
pnd Michael Gratz, or, it might have been a sale of
the lands directly to Michael Gratz, in part payment
of the same debt, at a price thereafter to *be agreed
upon, and fixed by the parties, and,, in the mean
time, there would arise a resulting trust, in favour of
Col. Croghan, by operation of law.
Time, which buries in obscurity all human transactions, has achieved its accustomed effects -upon
this. The antiquity of the transaction-the death
of all the original parties, and the unavoidable difficulties as to evidence, attending all cases where
there are secret trusts and implicit confidences between the parties, render it, -perhaps, impossible to
assert, with perfect satisfaction, which of the two
conclusions above suggested, presents the real state
of the case. Taking the time of the credit only, it
would certainly seem to indicate that the trust was,
unfequivocally, a trust to pell the land. But there
are some other circumstances which afford considerable support to the other conclusion. Upon the back
of an account between B. & M." Gratz, and Col.
Croghan, which appears- to have been rendered to
the latter, in December, 1769, there is a memoran-

495
1821.
Prevost

V.
Gratz.

496

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

dum in the hand-writing of Col. Croghan, in wuch
0
1he enumerated the debts then due by him to B. &
Prevost.
V.
M Gratz, amounting to £1,220 1s. 2d. and then adds
or"J~ the following words" "paid of .the above £144
York
currency, besides the -deed for the land, on the Tenederah River,.9,000 acres patented." This- memorandum must have been made after the conveyance
of the land to M. Gratz, jand demonstrates that the
parties intended it to. be a part payment of the debt
Oue-to B.& NM. Gratz, and not a.trust for any other
purpose. The circumstance too, that the woyd
"paid",is, used, strongly points to a real sale to-M.
Gratz,, rather than. a conveyance .for sale.-to any third
person And if the sale was to be to M. Gratz, at
a price thereafter.to be -fixed between the partiu the
transactin could not be inconsistent with the terms
of the credit, in the-account of 1775., It will be re;
collected that M. Gratz resided at-Philadelphia,, and
the conveyance, was executed by Col. Croghan at
Albaiiy.. There is-no.evidence that the consideration
stated in the deed of £L1,80, or-any other. consideraton, was ever agreedupon between the parties, and
the circumstance that no sum is expressed in the
ibmorandum of Col. Croghan, shows, that at the
period when it was made, no fixMd price for the -land
hAd-been. ascertained; between the. parties. If,.theq,
it xemazjed to be fixed by the.parties, whenever that
-value was agreed upon, and' settled in accoundt, the
resulting.trust ireCot. Croghanwould be completely
extinguished. It is quite possible) and certainly con,
sistent with the circumstances in proof, that,]3B. &
M. Gratz might iot have been acquainted with the
1821.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

497

teal value of the land, or might be unwilling to take
1821.
it at any- other value than what, upon a sale, they Prevost
"v-'
might find could be realized. From the situation. of
v.
Col. Croghan, hi knowledge of the lands, and Gratz.
his extensive engagements in land speculations, ignorancie of its value- can scarcely be imputed. to 'him.
If, therefore, M. Gratz afterwards sold it to Howard,
and Col. Croghan *as satisfied: withthe price, there
is nothing unnatural in stating the creditin the manner in'which it stands in the account in 1775. It
would agree with such facts, and would by no means
repel .the:presumption,. that the land was not originally intended tobe sold to M. Gratz. It would eel'
deuce no more than 'that the -parties were villing
that the sale so made, should be considered the standard-of the value; and that M. Gratz should, upon
his original, purchase, be 'harged with ihe" sanie
price for whih lie sold: Upon this iew of the case,'
the resulting trust would be extinguished' by the consent of-the-parties, and no -whnt of good faith could
be fairly imputed to eitheir.
But it is said that theit is no proof that any such
purchase was ever made by Howard , and the trust
being once established, the burthen' of proof is shifted
upon .the other party, to show its extinguishment;
and if this be not lhown, the trust travels along with
the prop&t-ry and its proceeds down to the present
tinfe.
what cams
It is certainly true, that length of time is no bar to In
wil bar
a trust clearly established', and in a case where fraud time
a trust.
is imputed and proved, length of time ought not,
VOL. VL

63

498

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

upon principles of eternal-justice,.to be :admittet:t
thAt
Prevost ~ repel relief. On the contrary, it would-seem
V. the.Iength of time, during which.the. fraud. has. been
successfully concealed andpractised,.-is rather an agGrafz.
1821.

gravation of the offence, and -calls.mote loudly upq..i
a-Court of equrtyto graint. ample and decisive- relief,
But length of time .necessarily, obscures all'-human
evidence; and as it thus removes from the parties all
the -immediate"means to verify..the nature of the original transactions,*it operates by way of presump.tio4,
in favour of innocence, and, agaiiisr imputtion of
fraud.,It would- be unreasonable, after a great
the njilength,-of time, to require exact proof of 111
nute circumstances.of any transaction, or to expect a
satisfactory explanation of every .qifficulty,. real or
apparent,. with which it may be incumbered. The
most that can fairly. be expected in such cases, if,ihe
parties are living, from the frailty..of memory, "and
human infrmity, is,, that the material facts can be
given with certainty to a common intent, and, if the
parties are dead, and the cases rest in confidence, and
in parol agreements, the most that we can hope is to
arrive at probable conjectures, and to substitute-general presumptions .of law, for exact knoiledge.
Fraud, or breach of,trust, ought not lightly to be imputed to the living, for, the legal presumption. -is
the other way, and as to the dead, who are not
here to answer for themselves, it would be the
height of injustice and cruelty to disturb their ashes,
and violate the sanctity of the grave, .unless the evidence of fraud be clear, beyond a reasonable doubt,
Now, disguise the prpesent case as much as we may,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

and soften the harshness of the imputation as much
as we please, it cannot escape our attention, that if
the plaintifts case be made out, there was a meditated breach of trust, and a deliberate fraud practised
by. M. Gratz, or Bernard Gratz, with the assent of
M. Gratz, upon Col. Croghan. If the sale to Howard was merely fictitious, it was an imposition upon
Col. Croghan, designed to injure his interest, and
violate his confidence. If the fraud were clearly
made out, there would certainly be an end to all inquiry as to the motives which could lead to so dishonourable a deed between such intimate friends.,
But the fraud is not clearly made -out, it is inferred
from circumstances in themselves equivocal, .and
from the absence of proofs, which it'is supposed
must exist, if the sale were real, and could now be
produced.
In the view which the Court is disposed to take
of this casei it must consider that Howard was a
real, and not a fictitious person. It is then asked,
why are not the facts proved who Howard was,
where he lived, and the execution of the deed to
him. It is to be recollected that this proof is called
for, about forty years after the original transaction,
when all the parties, and all who were -intimately acquainted with the facts, are dead. It is called for,
too, from persons, some of whom were unborn, and
some very young at the period to which they refer.
They cannot be supposed to know, and they absolutely deny, all knowledge of the facts. What reason is there to suppose that Col. Croghan did not
know who Howard was P He had a deep interest in

499
1821.
Prevost

v.
Gratz.

CASES IN 'THE "SUPREME COURT

Soo

1s1.
W
Prevost

v.

rft"

the value of.the property, and-could naQt be. presumed
to be indifferent to such inquiries, as every consider,
ate man would .be likely to make, in such a case;
And after this lapse of time it is fair to presume
i
that he did know the purchaser, and was satisfied
with the purchase. But it is. said that no deed-.is
produced. Now, it does not.necessarily follow, that
if a sale was made to Howard, that the contract was
consummated by. an actual .conveyance of -the land;
If M. Gratz was the.bonafide owner of the land,. he
might-sell it to. Howard by an efecutor.y contractand take a bond or other security for the purchase
money, and from a failure to comply with the eontract, M. Gra z might afterwards have refused to
give a deed tc Howard. And in this'case, if in the
intermediate time the -settlement was made with
Col. Croghan, the credit must have been allowed in
that. account as it-stands, and having been. once allowed, M-..Gratz could not, .on a recision-of-the-sale,
have been entitled to countermand that credit. He
would have been -bound to take the-land at the sum
which he had elected to allow for it, and for
Which he' had sold it. On the other hand, supposing
a deed actually to-have passed to Howard, the latter
may have become dissatisfied with his bargain, or
have failed to pay the. consideration- money, and have
yielded'it back-to Gratz, and dissolved .the purchase.
But this circumstance could, not have varied. the situation of-Gratz in respect to the- settlement with Col,
Croghan. All that was important, or useful, or necessary, as between'themi upon.the supposition that
the trust -was merely a resulting trust, until the price

OF THE UNITED STATES.

was fixed, was, that the price should have been satisfactorily ascertained and agreed to between them. In
this view of the transaction, there could be no
could his
ground to impute fraud to M. Qratz, nor
conduct involve a violation of trust. In the absence
of all contrary evidence, is it not just, is it not reasonable,., to presume such to have been the reality of the
case P That there is no evidence to the contrary,
may be safely affirmed.
In addition to this, it may be asked, whether M.
Gratz had any adequate motive for practising a -deception in this case. Men do not usually act under
circumstances such as are imputed to M. -Gratz, unless from some strong inducement of interest. It
cannot be presumed that any man of fair character,
such as M. Gratz is proved to have been, could perpetrate a fraud or deception without some motive
that should overbalance all the ordinary influence of
prudence and honour. If there be any thing beyond
all doubt established in this case, it is, that the value
of the land, as fixed in the account of 1776, was its
full value. It is proved by public sales of adjoining
tracts, at the very period when Howard is asserted to
have purchased the land , and so far from there being any chance of an immediate rise in value, the
state of the country, on the very eve of the revolutionary war, forbade the indulgence of every such
hope, and must have dissolved every dream of speculation. As far, then, as we can investigate motives, by referring to the general principles of human
action, there does not seem to have been any motivd
for disguise or concealment on .the part of Michael

i82.
v.
Graft.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

W2
1821.
Prevost

v.

Gratz.

Gratz towards Col. Croghan. The reasonable conelusion, fherefore, would certainly be, that no such
disguise or concealment was practised.
There is one circumstance also which has been
thought to have thrown some cloud over this part of
the case, that upon the opinion already indicated, would
admit of a favourable exposition. It is this. In the
possession of M. -Gratz, a counterpart of the account
of 1775 is found, in which the word Howard is crossed out with a pen, but so that it is perfectly legible,
and the name of Michael Gratz, is, in his -own 'handwriting, written over it. The writing seems to be of
great antiquity, and supposing that there was a real
sale to Howard, which was afterwards abandoned, it
is not unnatural that M. Gratz should, after the
event, have communicated the fact to Col. Croghan
and with his consent, altered the. account, so as to
conform to. it. Or, the interlineation might have
been made in the account, after the failure of the
contract with Howard, in- order to show against
which of the firm of B. & M. Gratz this sum ought
to be charged, in the adjustment of their partnership
concerns. It adds some force to these considerations,
that Col. Croghan continued, during the residue of
his life, to entertain the same friendship and confidence in M. Gratz, and this, at least, demonstrated
his belief that the Tenederah lands had not been unjustly sacrificed by him.
If we look to the subsequent conduct of M. Gratz,
in relation to the Tenederah lands, his great expenses in making improvements on it, after-the year
1786, and his diligent attention to it, it leads to the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Conclusion that he always considered himself as the
zeal bonafide owner. His possession of it must have
been known to the parents.of the plaintiff, whose
mother. was the heir of Col. Croghan, and it is proved, that. his father had the most unreserved and frequent access to,the papers of Col. Croghan, and
that he actually resided several years ii Philadel1)hza, with the express view of examining the estate,
and finally abandoned all hopes of deriving any benefit from the fragments that were eft of it. The
very account now produced by the plaintiff, by
which this trust is bro.ught to light, ..was delivered
over to him by the representatives of M. Gratz,
pnqgng the other papers -of Col. Croghan, and yet,
ifthere had been any thing false or foul in the transution,, it seems almost incredible that M. Gratz, into
whose possession it came as'early as 1782, should
have suffered it to remain as a monument of his own
indiscretion, and an evidence of his want of good
faith.
If, *on the other hand, the trust is to be considered
as a trust to sell, and apply the proceeds to the payment of the debt due to B. & M. Gratz, most of the
considerations already stated will apply with equal
force. If the sale was real, and Howard did not
comply with-the terms of sale, Col. Croghan having
knowledge of the fact, might have been wellsatisfied
to let M. Gratz hold the land, at the price,thus fixed
by the sale. To him, it must have been wholly immaterial who was the purchaser, if the full value
was obtained, and that it was obtained, in Col. Croghan's own judgment, seems undeniable. The only

1821.
Prevost

V.
Gratz.

CASES IN THE SUPREMNF COURT-

60

question is, whether such knowlege can be.inferred.
after such a length of time, under all the circumPrevost Sand
V.
stances of thiis case, we are clearly of opinion that it
Gratz.
ought to be inferred. Col. Croghan had it in his
power to make inquiries on the subject, if he did,
and was satisfied, his acquiescence was conclusive;
if he did not, he considered that the. sale, as between himself and Gratz, was consummated when
the price was fixed, and was willing that the trust
should be deemed extinguished forever. If, after
Ff'ect of lengththlpeof
,- the lapse offorty years, and the death of all the onof time
a legal i.and
sing
eitabl
sumption ofprethe gmal parties, we were to come to a. different concluextinguishinent sion, it would be pressing doubtful circumstances
of a trust, paym.etofadebt,
with uncommon rigour against unblemished charac&C.
ters, where the confidence reposed was so intimate,
that the whole evidence could not be presumed to be
before us. We should indulge in opinions which
might be erroneous, and might, in an attempt to redeem the plaintiff from a conjectural fraud, inflict
upon others the most gross injustice. We think,
therefore, that the true and safe course is to abide
by the.rule of law, which, after a lapse of time, will
presume payment of a debt, surrender of a deed,
and extinguishment of a trust, where circumstances
may reasonably justify it. The doctrine in Hillary
v Waller, (12 Vez. 261. 266.) on this subject, meets
our entire approbation. It is there said, that general
presumptions are raised by the law, upon subjects
of which there is no record or written instrument,
not because there are the means of belief or disbelief, but because mankind, judging of matters of
antiquity from the infirmity and necessity of their
1821.

OF THE UNITED STATES,

505

situation must, for the pregervation of their property

1821.

and rights, have recourse to some general principle,

Prevos.

to take the place of individual and specific belief
which can hold only as to matters within our own
time, upon which a cone s n can be formed from
particular and individual knowledge. In our judgment; the trust in the Tenederah lands, such as it

V.
ratz.

was, must be now presumed to have been extinguished by the parties, in the life-tme of Col. Croghan. There is no ground, then, for relieving the
plaintiff, as to this part of his claim.
The remaining point in this case respects the M'11- The
bond Mi1vaine
and Jedg.
vaine bond and judgment. On the 80th of March, men.
1769, Col. Croghan gave his bond to Win. M'1lvaine, for the sum of £400, which debt, by the will
of M'Ilvarne, became, on his death, vested in his
widow, who afterwards intermarried with John
Clark. A judgment was obtained upon this bond
against Col. Croghan, in the name of Win. Humphreys. executor of M'llvaine, in the Court of Common Pleas, in Westmoreland County, in Peniisylvama, at the October term, 1774', upon which afi. fa.
issued, returnable to the April term of the same
Court, in 1775. On the 8th of March preceding
the return day of thefi.fa. Bernard Gratz purchased
this judgment from Clark, and received an assignment of it, for which he gave his own bond for £300
and interest. About this period, Col. Croghan appears to have been considerably embarrassed in his
pecuniary affairs, and several suits were depending
against him. Bernard Gratz having failed to pay
his bond, was sued by Clark, and in. 1794, ajudgVOL. V1.

64

506

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

ment was recovered against him for £89 6s. IOd. the
1821.
then due upon the bond, which sum was at'balance
"
'Prevost
G
ter.wards paid by M. Gratz. The judgment of HumGratz. phreys against Col. Croghan, was kept alive from
time to time, until 1786, and in that year, on the
death of Humphreys.. .seph Bloomfield was appointed administrator de bonts non, with the will annexed, of Humphreys, and revived the judgment.,
and it was kept in full force until it was finally levied on certain lands of-Col. Croghan, as hereafter
stated. Some time inthe year 180.0, Bernard Gratz
assigned this judgment to his nephew Simon Gratz,
one of .the defendants, partly in consideration of-natural affection, and partly -in consideration of the
above .sum of £89-6s. 10d. paid towards 1he .discharge of the bond of Bernard Gratz, by his (Simon s) father. Michael-Gratz. Simon Gratz having
thus become the beneficial ovgner of the judgment,
proceeded to issue executions on the same, and at
different-times between September, 1801, and November, 1804, caused the same executions to be levied on sundry tracts of land of Col. Croghan, in
Westmoreland and Huntington counties, of five of
which lie, being the highest bidder at the sale, became the purchaser. The tracts so sold, contained
upwards of 2,000 acres, and were sold for little more
than 1,000 dollars. The title to some part of the
land- so sold, appears to be yet in controversy.
Shortly after the assignment .of the M'Ilvaine
,judgment to Bernard Gratz, on the 16th of Mayj
1775, Col. Croghan, (probably having knowledge
of the assignment, though the fact does not appear,)

OF THE UNITED STATES.

by two deeds of that date, conveyed to B. Gratz,
for a valuable consideration expressed therein, about
46,000 acres of land.

A declaration of trust was

executed by Bernard Gratz, on the2d of June, 1775,
by which he acknowledged, that tese conveyances
were in trust to enable Bernard Gratz to sell the
same, and with the proceeds to discharge certain
enumerated debts of Col. Croghan, and among them,
the debt due on the M'llvaine bond, and to account
for the residue with Col. Croghan.
The subject of the M'llvaine judgment was very
minutely considered in the Court below,. by the
learned judge who decided the cause, and the principal grounds on which the plaintiff relied for a decree were so fully answered there, that a complete
review, of them does not seem to be necessary in this
Court.a It is observable, that the bill charges that
a The following is that part of the opinion of 'Mr. Justice
In the Court below, here alluded to
( Upon these facts, it is contended by the complainant's
counsel, that B. Gratz ought to be considered by this Court, as
having purchased the above judgment with the trust funds, and,
consequently, for the benefit of G. Croghan, and that even if
it was purchased with his own money, still, being a trustee for
Croghan, the purchase should be considered as having been
made for his benefit, entitling B. Gratz to claim no more than
the sum which he actually paid, and to retain the same out of
G. Croghan's estate, the whole of whikch is charged with'the
payment of his debts. That Simon Gratz, being an asignee of
this judgment, with notice of the trust, and without a.valuable
cpnsideration paid for the same, can stand in no better situation
than the assignor did, and ought. therefore, to be.treated as a
trustee for the.estate .of G. Croghan, of the lands which he
WASHINGTON

1821.
Prevost

11.

Gratz.

CASES IN -HE SUPREME COURT

508
1821.

the assignment of this judgment was secretly pro-

Prerost

cured by Bernard or Michael Gratz, or both of-ihew i

V

after the death of Col. Croghan, and that nothing

Gratz.
purchased under the executions issued on that judgmeht. and
be entitled to claim merely the sum actually paid by B. Grata,
with interest.
It is to be observed, in the first place, that there is p~ot the
slightest evidence on -which to ground a presumption, that thiS
judgment was purchased with trust funds. B. Gratz gave his
own bond for the 300 pounds, at which time he and M; Gratz
were considerably the creditors of G. Croghan-" and it further
appears by the exhibits in the cause, that the accounts between
these parties, were regularly settled from time to time, leaving
at each settlement a balance agaihst G. Croghan.
Neither did any funds arise from the trust property, no part
of the same having at any time been sold by the trustee.
As to the argument predicated upon the admission, .that the
purchase was made upon the credit and with the funds of B.
Gratz, I hold it to be altogether untenable. B. Gratz became
the purchaser some months befre the date of the.conveyances
to him, of the 45,000 acres of land, and I am yet to learn upon
what principle of equity it is,. that a creditor, who after he -s
so, becomes a trustee for his debtor, does by that act impair
or affect rights which he had antecedently acquired against
lum. I admit the .oundness of the doctrine laid down by the
complainant's counsel) that if a trustee, executor, or agent, buy
in debts due by his cestut qua trust, testator, or principal, for
less than their nominal amount, the benefit gaimed thereby belongs not to him, but to the person for whom he acted. A
Court of equity will not permit a person, acting as a trustee,
to create in himself an interest opposite to that of his cestut qua
trust or principal. But this doctrine is inapplicable to the case
of a fair- bona fide creditor,, who became so, prior to the assumption of his fiduciary character. In such a case he is entitled to claim the tull amount of what was due from his cestu
qua (rut, &c. and the latter has no' right to inquire how much

OF THE UNITED STATES.

was due upon the judgment; or if any thing was
due, it was paid upon the assignment out of moneys
belonging to the estate of Col. Croghan. The bill
the former paid- for it, so, too, the trustee, &c. may pursue
all legal remedies for enforcing payment of the debt, which
would have been open to him if he bad not become a trustee.
It is said, however, that the declaration of trust of the 2d of
July, 1775, contains a promise to discharge this very debt out
of the trust property, as soon as the same could be disposed of.
But it was not diiposed of, and there are the strongest reasons
for believing that it was altogether unsaleable.
Independent of the doubts which clouded the title, it would
seem sufficient to observe, that B. Gratz had the. strongest
temptations to sell, and even to sacrifice this property, if it had
been possible to dispose of it upon any terms.
It is further contended, that the power of attorney given by
G. Croghan, to B. & M. Gratz, dated the 10th of July, 1772,
constituted them trustees of all his lands, with unliiited power
to sell them, and to pay off his debts. It is in this part of the
case, that I experience the difficulty of deciding satisfactorily *to
myself, in consequence of the antiquity of these transactions,
and the death of all those who might have explained them.
What became of this power of attorney, and why it was never
acted upon, are questions which no evidence in the cause enables me to resolve. There are, however, strong reasons for
presuming, that the powers vested in these agents, were found
unproductive of any useful yesults, and, that the instrument
which bestowed them was afterwards delivered back to G.
Croghan, or remaining with the Gratzs, was considered by all
the parties as a blank paper. This conjecture is strongly countenanced by the fact, that, this paper, as well As the deeds, of
May, 177t, was found amongst the papers of G. Croghan, after
his death. These very deeds furnish themselves the most persuasive evidence in support of this presumption. For, if the
generalpower to sell the whole-ofG . Cro*ghan's lands, continued
in force up to the vear 1775, there could. have been no necessity for giving to one of those agents, an authority to sell a part

609

1821.
Peo
Prevost

V.
Gratz.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

510
18M1.
'*"-'
Prevost

v

asserts no other ground for relief on this subject.
The proof in the cause -completely establishes the
material charges in the bill to be false. The assign-

Gratz.
of them. The fact, that no part of those lands was sold by the
agents, or by Croghan himself, without a compl int having been
uttered by the latter, that appears, is nearly conclusive to
prove that they were unsaleable.
Another point insisted upon by the complainant's counsel
under this head is, that G. Croghan was not in reality a debtor
to M'Ilvaine, iniasmuch as there was found amongst Croghan's
papers, a bond of M'Ilvaine to him, dated the 5th of March,
1769, with condition that M'Ilvaine should by a certain day reconvey to Croghan, certain lands lying in Virginia, which Croghan had conveyed to M'Ilvaine, in trust for the payment of a
particular debt, or in case it shotild not be in his power to make
such cwnveyance, then.to pay to Croghan. the sum of 4001. It
was contended, that this bond being found uncancelled amongst
the papers of the obligee, proves that neither of the conditions
had been performed.
The short, but conclusive answer to this argument is. that the
condition of this bond was to be performed in the year 1770,
and that if it was broken by the failure of MIlvaine to make
the re-conveyance, M'Ilvaine became in thatyeara debtor to G.
Croghan, in the sum of 4001. the equivalent, yet Crogban suffered judgment to pass against him, and execution to issue in
the year 1775, after which he lived about seven years, without
having brought a suit on the bond, or asserted, in any manner
whatever, a right to the money. lf,.after a lapse of so many
years, and under these strong. circumstances, the Court is not
bound to presume against the existence of this debt, I know of
no instance in which such -a presumption ought to be made.
If in truth the debt was really due, the charge of.neglect is
fairly imputable to Croghan, but not to his executors. Upon
the whole I am of opinion, .upou.this point, that the complain.
ant is entitled to no relief." I Peters,jun. R&p. 372.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ment was made to .Bernard-Gratz, in the lifetime- of
Col. Croghan, the judgment never was paid or satisfied by Col. Croghan, or out of his estate, and no
in
fraud is pretended in the bill to have taken place
the levy of the judgment on Col. Croghan's lands,
independently of the legal inference-to be deduced
from the facts charged in the bill. If Bernard Gratz
was not, at the time, in the situation of a trustee of
Col; Croghan, there is no pretence to say, that he
might not rightfully and lawfully purchase the judgment. And there are very strong reasons to believe,
that it \was purchased with the knowledge, and for
the relief of Col. Croghan. It-.was somewhat insisted upon in the Court below, that by a power of
attorney of the 10th of July, 1772, Col. Croghan
constituted Bernard and Michael Gratz trustees of
all his lands, with unlimited power to sell them and
pay off his debts. But.this ground has not been-insisted upon h.r~e, and, indeed, fir the best reasons.
There is the strongest presumptive evidence, that
this power was never acted upon, or was revoked,
and held a nullity before the time of the assignment
in question.
The ground that has been principally relied upon
here, is, that Bernard Gratz having taken the two
trust deeds in 1775, already referred to, in trust
for the payment of this very debt out of the proceeds of the sale of the lands conveyed by those
deeds, could not proceed to satisfy the judgment out
of any other lands, without notice to Col. Croghan,

or his representatives. But there is -not the least
evidence in the cause to show, that any of the lands

5t1
1821.

re'
V.
Grtz•

2 ASES

512
IR2.
v.

Graft.

IN THE SUPREME COURT

conveyed by either of these deeds ever turned out
Sproductive. And there are the strongest presumpto be on all
tions in the case, and it seems, indeed,
sides conceded, that either the title to these lands
wholly failed, or became altogether unsaleable.
There is no reason to suppose that these facts lay
more peculiarly in the knowledge of one party than
the other , and if the trust became utterly frustrated
and inert, there could not be any necessity of giving
a formal notice, that Bernard Gratz must look to
other property, and particularly to the property in
Westmoreland county, upon which alone, it is understood by- the laws of Pennsylvania, the lien of
the judgment attached.
There is no proof that any assets ever came to the
hands of Bernard Gratz or Michael Gratz, out of
which this judgment was, or could be satisfied. Bernard Gratz was alone interested in it, and it was
kept alive from time to time, until the levies in question were made. It will be recollected also, that even
if.Michael Gratz were disposed to connive, after the
death of his brother, in the levies of his son Simon,
William Powell, who was another executor, had no
such motive. And, it is not.shown that, by any law
or usage in Pennsylvania, any notice is required to
be given to any other persons than the personal representatives of the deceased, of the execution of any
such judgment on lands, so that laches could be
fairly imputed to the executors for neglect to give
notice to the heirs of Col. Croghan of the sale. rhe
very length of time during which this judgment remained unsatisfied, is evidence of the desperate state

OF THE UNITED STATES.

of Col. Croghan's affairs; and the record abounds with
corroborations of the great embarrassments attending all his concerns, and of apparent insolvency at

the time of his decease. No evidence has been submitted to us to establish that the levieson the lands,

613
1821.
Prevost

v.

Gratz.

under the judgment, were fraudulently conducted by
the sheriff, or that they did not sell for the full value of the title, such as it was, which Cbl. Croghan
had in them. It appears that the title, as to some
part of them, is still in controversy And Simon
Gratz, thejudgment creditor, had as much right, if
the sale was bonafideconducted, to become the purchaser, if he was the highest bidder, as any other person.
asto
"Decree,
Upon the whole, the majority of the Court entirely 'lie
proce ds of
derab.
the Tene
concurs, in the opinion of the Circuit Court upon• lands,
revernet];
this part of the case. But, as to the decree respecting the proceeds of the Tenederah lands, we are all
of opinion that it ought to be reversed.
If the Court had felt any doubts as to the merits,
it would have been proper to have given serious consideration to the very able argument made at the
bar, respecting the defect of proper partieg to the
bill. But, as upon the merits, the Court is decidedly against the plaintiff, it seemed useless to send
back the cause upon this objection, if it should be
found tenable, when, after all, the case furnished no
substantial ground for relief in equity.a
DECREE.

Vor,. VI.

TIhese causes, being cross appeals,
a Vide 1 Peters, yun. Rep. 364. S. C
6h

514

CASES iN THE:SUPREME COURT

1821.

came on.to be heard at the same time, and were arOn -consideration whereof, it is

ZV' gued .by ,counsel.

V.

that- the decree of the Circuit Court for the District of Pennsylvania in the
ORDERED ald DECREED,

premises, -be-, and the same is hereby rever~ed. And
this Court proceeding to pass such decree as the said
Circuit Court should have passed, it. is farther ORIDEREP and DECREED, that the complainant'sbill, as
to all the matters contained therein, be, and the same
is hereby dismissed', and that:a mandate issue -to the
said Circuit. Court, to dismss the same accordingly,
without costs.

(LOCAL I;AW.)

BoWi9 V. HPOiNDERSON e al.
The third section of the act of Congress, of March 30th, 103, .forthe

relief of insolvent debtors in the Distnct of Cniumbia, does not
create any express or implied exception to the operation of the
statute of limitations, by making the insolvent a trustee for his
-creditors, in -respect to his future property,. or by making any demand, included in the schedule of his debts, a debt of record.
The including of a demand in the schedule of the insolvent's debts, is
sufficient evidence to sustain an issue on a replication of a new promise to the plea of the statute of limitations, if the period of limifation has not elapsed after the date of the schedule.
APPEAL

Columbia.

from the Circuit Court of the District of

