OF THE UNITED STATES.

us

cided in favour of the defendant.- It would be a
great mschief for the same title to be in perpetual
litigation from the conflict of opinion between the
Courts of the State and the federal Courts ; and we,
therefore, acquiesce in the opinion of the Court of
Appeals, upon the ground, that the point is one of
local law, has been fully considered in that Court,
and is a construction which cannot be pronounced
unreasonable, or founded in clear mistake.

zs i.
Oi
Otis

V.

Water.

Judgment affirmed.
a Preston's Heirs v. Bowmar, 2 Bibb. Rep. 493.

-JiSTRUCTION OF STATUTE,)

OTIS V. WALTER.
Under die Embargo Act ofthe 25th April, 1808, c. 170. Clxv.) ifa ves
zel, not actually arriving at her port of original destination, excites
an honest suspicion in the mind of the Collector, that her demand of
a permit to land the cargo was merely colourable, this is not i termination of t ie voyage so as to preclude the right of detentibn.
Under what circumstances the Collector has a right to land the cargo
of the vessel thus detained.

Tins cause was argued. by the Attorney- General Mfarh 121h.

for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Webster and
Mr. Wheaton for the defendant in error.'
a They cited Otis v Bacon, 7 Cranch, 596. Crowell v.
M'Faddon, 8 Cranch, 98. Slocumr v. Mayberry, .2

Rep. 11.

Meat.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

584
1821.
Otis

V.

Walter.
March 16th.

Mr. Justice LIVINGSTON delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This is an action of trover brought by the defendant in error, against the plaintiff and others, in.the
Court of Common Pleas, held at Boston, within and
for the county of Suffolk, to recover the value of
.eighty-six barrels.-of flour, and sundry other articles, in which judgment was recovered against the
plaintiff in error, from which judgment-there was an
appeal to the Supreme judicial Court, which is the
highest Court of law in the commonwealth of Massachusetts, in which judgment was rendered- against
the plaintiffs in error, for the sum of $2,488 75 cents,
and costs of suit, and in favour of the other defendants. On the judgment, the defendant below, William Otis, has prosecuted a writ of error to this
Court, under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act
of the United States, and we are now to decide
whether there was- any error in the direction given
by the judge before whom this action was tried, and
which appears on the bill of exceptions attached to
the recorA in this cause.
The property in question had been seized by William Otis, as Deputy Collector of the customs for
the port and district of Barnstable, in the commonwealth of Massachusetts, under the 11th section of
an act in addition to the act, entitled, "An act laying an embargo on all ships and vessels in the ports
and harbours of the United States ;" and the several
acts supplementary thereto, -and for other purposes,
passed the 5th April, 1808. On the bill of exceptions, the following facts appear. On the part of the

OF THE .UNITED STATES.

plaintiff, Lynde Walter, it was proved, that the
goods mentioned in the declaration were his property, that they were put on board of the sloop
Ten Sisters, at Ipswich, in Massachusetts, bound
for the port of Yarmouth , that it was agreed or understood between Walter and Hallett, who was
master of the sloop; that the latter was to carry said
goods to Barnstable, or to a place called Bass river,
in Yarmouth, with orders to sell the same, provided
be could obtain a certain price fixed by Walter, otherwise to deliver them to Freeman Baker, of Yarmouth, that said sloop, on the 19th November,
1808, cleared out at Ipswich, to proceed to the.portof Yarmouth, as expressed in the clearance obtained
from the Collector at that place, that said sloop proceeded round Cape Cod to Hyannis, in the town and
district of Barnstable, and the master applied to William Otis, a deputy Collector for that port aud district,
for a permit to land the cargo, which he refused to give,
but ordered him not to discharge any thing from the
sloop, until he should have a permit so to do. That
in a day or two afterwards, Otis came on board the
sloop with four men, and seized sloop and cargo, and
putting a pilot and crew on board, he sent her to
Falmouth,- in the district of Barnstahle, where Otis
had the cargo discharged and stored, in, and under a
dwelling-house in Falmouth tie master forbidding
Otis to. meddle with the sloop or cargo. The master
also exhibited to Otis his manifest, and swore to the
correctness of the same.
On the part of'Otis, it was proved, that he was deputy Collector for Barnstable-that on the 29th NoVOL. VT.

595
1821.

"Otis
v.
Walter.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.

v.

Walter.

vember, 1808,.he duly reported to the President of
the United States, the detention of this sloop and
her cargo, under and by virtue of the act abovemention-d, which detention was confirmed and approved
by the President, Qn the 8th of December, 1808.
That the sloop, when seized, lay at anchor about half
a mile from the shore or beach, which- is-in the towa
and port of Barnstable, near the centre thereof, six
miles distant, from Bass river, on which Freeman Bakers house and store are situated, and. about five
miles from the harbour of Yarmouth. That Freeman-Baker's landing is situate above a quarter, of a
mile from the mouth of Bass river, .on said river, in
the town of Yarmouth, about six miles and an half
by water, from where the sloop was seized, -and lies
to the eastward of Point Gammon. Hyannis, where
the vessel-was seized, is westward of Point Gammon, land in -the town of-Barnstable. That the
sloop, when seized, had not arrived at the harbour of
Yarmouth, but was lying in the port or harbour of
Barnstable,. about -three miles from 'the harbour of
Yarmouth, which lies east north east from the port
of Barnstable, and the sloop on her way from Ipswich to the place where she was seized, passed the
piace for which she was cleared, because the weather
would not permit the master to get her either into
the-harbours of Bass river, or Gage wharf, and because he lived near Hyannis, and -wished to see his
family, 4nd to lay his vessel in a safe place, and to
land certain articles of bedding, &c. from the vessel,
as it was his intention to strip the vessel when she
arrived at 'Yarmouth. After the- master arrived in

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Hyannis Bay, it was his intention to land his cargo
at Gage wharf, which is in the town of Yarmouth,
about three rods distant from the line of Barnstable
and about six miles and an half from the place where
the sloop was anchored when seized. Between Yarmouth harbour or Bass river harbour, and Hyannis,
or Barnstable harbour, where the vessel was seized,
is a long point of land, called Point Gammon, extending several miles into the sea, and the distance
by the nearest course of the ship-channel, or deep
water, from Bass river to Hyannis, is ten miles, and
in going from Ipswich to Hyannis, the sloop passed
Bass river harbour, or Yarmouth harbour and Point
Gammon. The cargo, when stored by the Collector,
was some of it in bad and perishable condition, and
was put in better order by coopering, &c. before being stored.
On ,this evidence, the jury were charged that under the clearance, the captain had a right to go to
any part of Yarmouth with his vessel, notwithstanding it might have been the intention of him and the
owner, that.she should. go'to Bass river.in that town.
that if she had been carried beyond Bass river by
force of the winds, and contrary to the master's intenuon, and cane to anchor in Hyannis Bay, with,in the limits of the town of Barnstable, for that
cause,- still, if the jury believed that, -in consequence
of this state of things, the captain had concluded to
give up his intention of going to Bass river, and in
lieu thereof, to carry his vessel to Gage's wharf,
which is within the town of Yarmouth, on the same
side of Point Gammon as Barnstable, and to all subl'

3821.

v.

Walter.

588
1821,

k&

v.
Walter'

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

stantial purposes, the same harbour, and fot this
purpose, was waiting only for. a proper oppcetunity to
take the vessel into that wharf, they mightjustly and
fairly determine that the voyage was terminated at
the time Otis took possession of the vessel.,
Whether this part of the charge- were correct, will
depend on the true construction of the I Ith section
of the act of Congress, under, which .this seizure.was
made, and which has already been referred to,. Its
language is, " that the Collectors of the -customs
be, and they are hereby respectively authorized-to
detain any vessel.ostensibly botind with. a cargo to
some other -port.of the .United*States,-,whenever, in
their opinicn, the intention-is to violate, or evade any
of the-provisions of the acts ILying. an embargo, uptil
the .dbC'sfbn ofthe.?resident of.the United- States be
had thereupon."
Of. *e ostensible destinati6n of the Ten Sisters,
at.thetinie of.-her leavingIpswibh, there can be i05
doubt. This, fromthe manifest and clearance, was
Yarmouth ,or Bass. river.. What better evidenqe,
then,. .copild, Otis- havu of this -fact, than that which
he acquired from .an" iiispeetioa of these papers. If,
then, such was her os.nsible destination. at the time
of her sailing from .Ipswich, and .he had. not arrived
at'Yarmouth.or Bast river at the time of seizure, it
would. seem, that he would Iiaye a right, under the
provisions of this- section, t6 detain the Ten Sisters,
if in his opinion an initefition-existed of violating the
embargo laws. It is -not pretended,. that this was
.not his real -opinion, or that, for an honest exercise
6f such an opinion, heought to be punished. There

OF THE UNITED STATES.

589

1822.
is a confidence placed in the discretion of a Collector,
but
abused,
be
may
which
in cases of this kind,
Otis
V.
which ought-to protect him from loss when there is
Walter.
that
case,
this
in
not
is
there
as
believe,
no reason to
the dotention proceeded 'from sinister motives, and
not 'from a conscientioUts desire of discharging his
duty. To subject a Collector, or any public officer,
to such an imputation, when acting under a discretion thus reposed in him, the circumstances ought to
be.such is almost to preclude the possibility of his
having acted but from some -unworthy or dishonourable motive. The Court is much mistaken, if the
facts in this case are such as to lead to this conclusion. The only question, then, is, whether the circumstances were. such at the: time of seizure,. as to
confer .on thb Cdllector, or his deputy, the right of
acting under the influence of an opihion, that such
illegal Intention existed. But it is supposed, that
the- Ten Sisters, had substantlally terminated het
voyage, or that being:driven beyond Point Gammon
iuto Hyannis Bay, she might lawfully terminate her
voyage, and land her cargo at Barnstable. lf'a perwit had been obtained to land her cargo at Barnstable, this argument would be!entitled to much consideration, but when the master of a vessel, bound
by her papers to one port, applies for a permit to
land her cargo at another place, he cannot, in that
way, deprive the Collect6r of considering the vessel
as still n ztonere, to her original port of destination,.
and if he suspects such application to be a mere pretence to conceal some illicit object, he has as good a
fight to make the seizure as if a permit had not been.

690

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1821
Otis

V.

Waiter.

applied for. In the case of Otis v. Bacon, 7 Cranch,
596. a permit to land the cargo had been granted
before any seizure took place, which was considered by the Court as evidence of the termination of
the voyage., and that she could not, thereafter, be
considered as actually or ostensibly bound to any
other port. Nor can the exhibition of the manifest,
or-swearing to its contents, be considered. as equivalent to a.permit to land the goods. It might, on the
contrary, furnish evidence, as it did here, of an ostensible destination from one port df the Ulnited
States to another, where she had.not yet arrived, and
in which case the Collector had authority to act nor
was h'e bound to believe, merely from that circumstance, or from the then situation of the vessel, i hat
such destination was abandoned. On a former trial
of this cause, no clearance was produced,. and the
only tqsrmony on this subject came out on the examination of the master, who declared, that the vessel was bound to Yarmouth or Barnstable. Upon
the whole, this Court is of opinion-, that the learned
judge who tried the cause committed an error in
telling the jury that they might fairly and justly determine the voyage was terminated at the time of
seizure, if they believed the captain had given up
his intention of. going to Bass river, and had determined to land his cargo at Gage's wharf, which,
though within the boundary of Yarmouth, is in fact
in the harbour of Barnstable, and that he was waitmg only for a proper opportunity to take the vessel
mto that wharf. Now, this was placing the termination of ihe voyage, not on the fact of its having

OF THE UNITED STATES.

actually ended, but on an intention of the master, of
Which it was impossible the Collector could know
any thing with certainty. who was to judge of his
right and duty to make the seizure only from the
papers of the vessel, and the situation in which 'she
was found, which is admitted to have been short of
her destined port. But if a secret intention of the
master be permitted to be set up as a ground of decision, and' this, -too, contrary to the written evidence
in the.cause, on'which alone a public officer can act
with safety, he would* always be exposed to risks
which might deter him from acting altogether. The
jury, therefore,,should have been left to decide -from
the.other evidence in the cause, independent of any
secret, or even declared, intention in the mind of the
master, whether the ostensible. voyage was terminated. or not; and it seems difficult to conceive how
their decision.could have been otherwise than favourable to Otis. In this part of the charge, therefore,
the Court is of-opinion, -there is error.
Another part of the Court's instruction to the jury
is also.complained of, it is, that in which the. Chief
Justice remarks, that the Collector had no authprity,
without the consent of the master, or person having
the cart of the cargo, to unlade it from the vessel
and store it. It is not known what influence this
opinion had on the jury, but in the unqualified terms
in which the Collector's right to unlade the cargo is
denied, this Court does not concur. We have already decided, that with the consent of the master,
or agent of the owner, the cargo may be landed, but
it was not intended to say, that in no other case

1s21.
Otis

V.
Walter.

6.9

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1821,

Otis

V.
Waiter.

eould such landing and storing be justifiable. If it
that the Collector, during the detention of the
vessel, shall, bonafide, think it will tend to the security and preservation of the property to unlade it, and
will do it at his own expense, it is not perceived why
he may not do so, but at the peril of such an act being regarded, per se, as a conversion of the property.
At any rate, this consequence ought not to follow,
unless it shall appear that the property was lost or
injured in consequence of such landing. That not
appearing to have been the case here, it is not necessary to say what effect such a circumstance could
have had in this suit. All that it is intended to say
here, is, that a landing. for the purposes, and under
the circumstances which appear on this record, is
not of necessity, or in itself, a conversion.

Sappear

Judgment reversed, and a ventre faczas de nova
awarded.a
a Vide ante, vol. II. p. 18.

