6.8

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1821.

""o

Brashier

v.

The decree of the Circuit Court is revoked, and
the sentence of condemnation pronounced by the
District Court affirmed.

Gratz.

(CHANCERY.)

BRASHIER V. GRATZ

et al.

The general rule is, that time is not of the essence of a contract ol
sale; and a failure on the part of the .purchaser, or vendor, to perform his contract, on the stipulated day, does not, of itself, deprive
him of his right to a specific performance, when he is able to comply with his part of the engagement.
But circumstances may be so changed, that the.object of the party can
no longer be accomplished, and he cannot be placed in the same si.
tuation as if the contract had been performed in due time. In such
a case, a Court of Equity will leave the parties to their remedy at
law
Part performance will, vnder some circumstances, induce the Court
to relieve.
But where a considerable length of time has elapsed, where the party
demanding a specific performance has failed to perfdrm his part of
the contract, and the demand is made after 'a great change in the
title and the value of the land, and there is a. want of reciprocity in
the obligations of the respective partibs, a Court of Equity will not
interfere.

APPEAL

from the Circult Court of Kentucky.

This cause was argued by Mr. B. Hardino for the
appellant, and by Mr. Sergeant for the respondents.b
a He cited I Fonbl. Eq. 227 9 Pes. 415. 2 P Wns. 243, 4
Bro. Ch. Rep. 329. 469. 391. 1 Ves.jun. 221. 1 Alk. 12.
I Ves.
i Who cited Sugd. Vend. -246. 5 Ves. 720. Note.
jun. 450. 9 Cranch, 456. 8 Cranch, 471.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opimon of the Court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit
Court for the District of Kentucky, dismissing a bill
brought by the appellant against the, heirs of Michael Gratz for the specific performance of a contract.
Michael Gratz, who resided in Philadelphia, had
purchased from John Craig, of Kentucky, a tract of
land containing, by the survey, one thousand acres,
for which no patent had then issued. Subsequent to
this purchase, the patent issued in the name of Craig,
who sold a part of the land to Keyser, and a suit had
been brought in the federal Court of Kentucky by
Gratz, against Craig and Keyser, to compel a conveyance of the land. Michael Gratz had, in the
mean time, sold eight hundred and twenty-four
acres, part of this tract, to Robert Barr.
While the suit against Craig and Keyser was depending, .Walter Brashier, the plaintiff, who resides
in Kentucky, came to Philadelphia on business, and
on the 2d day of March, in the year 1807, purchased
the residue of the land from Gratz. Brashier had
married the daughter of Robert Barr.
The residue of the land was estimated by the parties at 302 acres, for which Brashier agreed to give
the sum of $6795 in his negotiable notes, payable in
six, twelve, and eighteen months. From this sum
was, however, deducted $250, "allowed to the said
Walter Brashier, towards the costs and expenses of
prosecuting the suits now depending, for the recovery of the lands hereby contracted for, which is acVOL. V1

67

529
1821.
Brashier

v.

Gratz.
Mar 14h.

6W
3821.
%all
Drasluer
V.
Gratz.

CASES IN. THE SUPREME COURT

cepted by the said Walter, as a. full satisfaction -for
costs, trouble and expense which he may be at, in
prosecuting the said suits, and. which he- hereby
agrees and undertakes to manage at his own costs
and expense. And it is hereby agreed that a correct
and accurate survey shall be made, at the expense of
the said Michael, of all the said- residue of the abovementioned tract of land, lying within the limits of the
original survey thereof, not sold to the said Robert
Barr ; and if, upon saich survey, it shall be found,
that the said residue doth not contain the quantity of
302 acres, then, for every one deficient, the said Michael Gratz, his heirs,. executors, or administrators,
shall pay or allow to the said Walter Brashier, his executors, administrators or assigns, the sum of twenty-two dollars and a half, and if any part of the said
residue shall be lost, in all, or any of the said suits
now depending, or that may be instituted hereafter,
for any part of the said residue, the said Michael
Gratz, his *heirs, executors or administrators, shall
only be liable to refund to him, the said Walter Brashier, his executors, administrators or assigns, the
sum of 11 dollars 25 cents, for each and every acre
so lost. It being hereby declared, that the said Walter Brashier has purchased the title of the said Michael Gratz, at his own risk and hazard, and so that
he shall have no recourse against the said Michael
Gratz, for want of, or for any defect in the title to
the said residue, or any part thereof, save only the
price of II dollars 25 cents per acre, for every acre
which shall be lost as aforesaid. And the said M.
G. for himself, his heirs, executors, and administra-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tors, doth covenant ind agree, that heor they shall and
will, at anytime after payment of the notes aforesaid,

when thereunto required, by a good and sufficient
deed, conveyance, or assurance in the law, convey
and assure unto the use of hun, the said Walter Brashier, his heirs and assigns forever, all his, the said
Michael Gratz's estate, right, title and interest, of and
in all the said residue of the above mentioned tract of
land.
Mr. Brashier executed his notes in conformity
with this contract, and returned to Kentucky, where
be requested his brother-in-law, Thomas T. Barr, to
attend to the prosecution of the suts then depending.
Mr. Barr resided near the place where the Court was
held, and Mr. B rashier at the distance of sixty or
seventy miles. Mr. Barr immediately employed
Mr. Bledsoe, a lawyer of eminence, to assist Mr.
Hughes, who had been engaged by Mr. Gratz, and
some time afterwards spoke to Mr. Wickliffe, but did
not pay -him a fee. No progress, however, seems to
have been made in these suits and the plaintiff failed
to pay the fees of' the officers of ihe Court, which
were demanded and received from Michael Gratz,
in the year 1811, and afterwards from his representatives.
The notes for the purchase money were protested
for non-payment, ad have not been paid.
In 1811, Mr. Brashier came to Philadelphia, when
Gratz offered to'convey-the land on his paying his
notes. Mr. Brashier being unable to pay them,
Gratz offered to rescind the contract, which Brashier declining to 'do, the question was referred

is21,
""
Brushier

V.
Grata

5.$2

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1521.

to arbitrators, who were of opinion2 that the contract
was still binding. About this time, Brashier, .who

v.

had been for some time much embarrassed, appears to
have become notoriously insolvent. In the autumn
of 1811, Gratz departed this life, and iti July, 1812,
his heirs again offered to convey, on payment of the
notes which Brashier had given for the purchase
money. Payment not being made, the heirs of
Gratz took the management -of the suits again into
their own hands, which were-prosecuted with-vigour,
and in .1813, were finally determined by a decree ih
their favour. About this time -the land rose suddenly to about 80 or 100 dollars per acre. After the
decision of the cause, and after. this rise in-the value
of the land, Brashier, in November, 1813, entered
into an agreement w.ith Lewis Saunders, -by which
he was to convey to Saunders half the land purchased of Gratz, in consideration of Saunders paying, or tendering to the heirs of Gratz, the full
amount of the notes he had given for the purchase.
Saunders immediately ofiered his contract to the
heirs of Gratz, and requested them, -if they were
willing to take it, and to indemnify him, to acknowledge a tender -of the money, which the contract
bound him to tender. They avowed their opinion,
that. the contract of Michael Gratz with Brashier
was of no validity, but consented to take the contract
with Saunders, and acknowledged the tender.
When in possession of this acknowledgment, Brashier instituted his. suit in the Court of Kentucky
for a specific performance of the contract of the 2d
of March, 1807. The defendants removed this suit

-OF THE UNITED STATES.

5W

into the Circuit Court of the United States, where
1821.
they filed their answer) insisting,, that the Court
ought not to decree a specific performance, because
V.
the plaintiff had totally failed to perform his part of Griis
the contract until there was such a change of circumstances as material!y to, aiect the rights of the
parties. The Circuit Court dismissed the bill, and
from that decree the plaintiff has appealed- to this
Court.
The appellant insists, that in equity, time is not
of'the essence of the contract; that it is in part performed-; and that his failure to pay the purchasemoney until December, 1813,r when the tender was
made, is justified by the circumstances of tue case.
The rule, that time is not of the essence of a con-of heLimitatonsof
generl rule
tract, has *certamly been red*gnized in Courts of hM. not
the essence
equity: and there can be no doubt, that a failure on or the contract.
the part of a purdhaser ot vendor, to perform his
contract on the stipulated day, does not, of itself, deprive him of his right to demand a specific performance at a subsequent .ddy, when he shall be. able to
comply with his part of the engagement. It may be
in the power of the Court to direct compensation for
the breach of contract in point of time, and in such
case the object-of the parties is effectuated by carrying it into execution. But the rule is not uriversal.
Circumstances may be so hanged- that the object
of the party can be no longe accomplished, that he
Who is injured'by the failure of the other contracting
party, cannot be placed in the situation in which he
would have stood had the contract been performed.
Under such circumstances, it would be inqutous to

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

ISM2. decree a specific performance, and a Court of equity

V.

Gratz.

will leave the parties to their remedy at law..
It is true, that he who has been ready to perform,
may at any time file his bill in Chancery, requiring
the other party to perform his contract or to rescind
it - and the Court will rescind the contract if he who
has failed cannot, or will not, perform it. But this
is not always necessary, and would not be always an
adequate remedy.
If, then, a bill for a specific performance be brought
by a party who is himself in fault, the Court will
consider all the circumstances of the case, and decree
according to those circumstances.
A consideration always entitled to great weight,
Is, that the contract, though not fully executed, has
been in part performed. The plaintiff claims the
benefit of this principle, and alleges, that by prosecuting and managing, at his own expense, the suits
depending in Kentucky, he has perfornled that part
of the agreement.
If this allegation be supported by the fact, it will
undoubtedly have great influence in the decision of
the cause.
The evidence igi that the plaintiff, soon after his
return to Kentucky, employed a gentleman of tie
bar, in addition to the counsel previously engaged by
Mr. Gratz, and paid -him his fee. It is also in evidence, that finding the business did not advance, he
spoke to other counsel; but*his application was not
accompanied with a fee, and was not much regarded.
It appears that a survey was necessary, and that the
deposition of a Mr. William Morton was wdispensa-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ble to the successful termination of the cause. Yet
the survey was not made, .and the deposition of Mr.
Morton, though its importance had been communithe
cated to Brashier, was not taken. The fees to
officers of the Court were not paid, and Mr. Gratz
was required to pay them. From March, 1807,
when the contract was made, to the autumn of 18"11,
when Mr. Gratz died, the suit did not advance. The
clerk informs us, that during this time, no other step
was taken in -the cause than to move for leave to
amend the bIjll and to continue it. The embarrassment of Mr. Brashier's affairs, and his insolvency,
added to this experience of his neglect of the cause,
were but little calculated to inspire confidence in its
future progress, or in his-future attention to it. In
1812, the heirs of Mr. Gratz took the management
of the business into their own hands. The deposition of Mr.Morton was taken, the survey was made,
and, in 1813, a decree was obtained in. their favour.
We think this cannot be considered as such a performance of his undertaking, "to manage the suits
at his own expenpe," as to entitle him to call on the
vendor for an execution of the contract.
It has also been contended, that by the agreement
between the parties, Mr. Gratz was bound to survey
the land, and that this was a preliminary step to be
taken by him before he could justly require Mr. Brashier to pay his notes for the purchase money.
Although this could not, at law, be pleaded to
notes inporting an absolute promise to pay money,
it will readily be -'dmitted, that if the understanding
of the parties had been, that Mr. Gratz should make

585
u2i.
"a'
Braishier
V.
Gnu.

536

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1821.
Brashier

V.

Gratz.

the survey, and that it should precede the payment
of the notes, such understanding would account for
the non-payment of the notes, and would place the
demand for a specific performance of the contract on
very strong ground.
But the agreement does not indicate the expectation, that Mr. Gratz should make the survey, although the expense of it would be chargeable to him,
and as it might be of advantage to Mr. Brasluer,
and could be of none to Mr. Gratz, as Mr. Brashier
was a resident of Kentucky, and Mr. Gratz of Philadelphia, the expectation was not unreasonable, that
Mr. Brashier would cause it to be made. He might
be expected to move in this business, and to require
Mr. Gratz to attend to it. His not having done so,
is a proof that he did not suppose the survey to be
of any consequence, because he did not intend to
pay so much of the purchase money as the survey
would show he ought to pay.
But the articles of agreement, far from showing
that the survey was to precede the payment of the
notes, contain expressions indicating the intention,
that their payment was not to depend on the survey.
The parties stipulate, that for every acre which the
survey shall show the tract to contain less than 302
acres, Gratz " shall pay or allow" to Brashier the
sum of 22 dollars 50 cents. That is, shall Cpay)
him if the notes shall have been received, shall
Ccallow" to him if the deficiency shall appear before
payment of the notes.
Had Mr. Brashier been able and willing to pay
his notes as they became due, he had sufficient mo,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tives for surveying the land. He had reason to believe, that there would be a deficiency. On his return from Philadelphia, in 1807, Mr. Barr, who
lived upon the land, and was acquainted with its
boundaries, told him that there could not possibly
be the quantity he had purchased. He knew, too.
that the land had been actually surveyed in October,
1807, by a son of Mr. Gratz, and had reason to believe, that this survey must have disclosed a deficiency. His omission to make any inquiries of Mr.
Gratz, or to make a survey, or to demand one, show
that his conduct respecting his notes did not depend
on a survey.
We do not think, then, that Mr. Brashier is justified .in withholding the payment of the purchase
money by the fact that the quantity of land was not
ascertained , nor does the evidence support the opinion that this fact had any influence on his conduct.
The plaintiff also attempts to justify the non-payment of the purchase money by the inability of Mr.
Gratz to make him a title. But this excuse entirely
fails him. He knew perfectly the state of the title,
and the articles of agreement show that he knew it.
They expressly declare that " the said Walter Brashier has purchased the title of the said Michael
Gratz, at his own risk and hazard -1 and that if
any part of the land be lost, the said Michael "shall
only be liable tb refund to him the sum of II dollars
25 cents for each acre that may be lost." The contract states that suits were depending for 'he land.
whidh suits Brashier undertook to manage and all
the testimony in the cause shows that he knew those
Vor. V1.

68

537
1821.
Brashier

V.
Grat.

&U

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

suits were brought for te legal title.

With this full
and.strof.Gratz.,
the-title
purchases
he
'knowledge,
'
pulates that, after the payment of the purchase mo.v.
Graz.
ney, Gratz. shall convey,. not the land, or a good
and sure title to it but "all his. the said Michael
Gratz7 estate, right, title and interest, of and in .all
the said residue of the abovp mentioned tract,of
land."'
It is then an essential ingredient in this contracti
that .the purchase money shall be.paid- without wait.
ing for the termination.of the. cause. Brashier takes
the whole risk upon himself, except as to half the
price of every acre which-may be lost ; 'andlhe is -not
to retain even that portion of the purchase, but itis
to be "refunded" to him whenever the loss shall
take place. He had then-no. right to withhold the
payment. of the purchase money .until the suits
should be determined, and any attempt to do so was
a violation of the letter-and the spirit of his contract.
The state of the title furmshes no sort of apology for
this violation. Gratz was able to make the conveyance which he had contracted to make, and which
Brashier had contracted to receive, and his want of
the legal title Furnished no excuse for the non-payment of the purchase money.
The situation of the parties, and the circumstances in which the property was placed, deserve serious
consideration. The'contract was made while a suit
for the title was depending, and there is reason to.
suppose that this circumstance had some- influence
on the price of the article. We perceive that. if any
partof the land should be lost, one half the purchase
1821.

$39

OF THE UNITED STATES.

money should be lost by Brashxer. While the suits
were depending, and the purchase money unpaid,
Brashier became insolvent. Consequently, should
the land be recovered, it would be the property of
Brashier at the stipulated price should it be lost,
Brashier could not pay that portion of the price
which he was to pay in the event of loss. Under
such circumstances, had a suit In chancery been
brought to have the contract rescinded, unless he
would pay the purchase money, no Court could have
hesitated to decree according to the prayer of the
bill. No Court could allow one party to hold the
other bound, while the obligation was not reciprocal, or to hold himself prepared to avail himsdlf of
all favourable contingencies, without being affected
by those which were unfavourable.
Mr. Brashier, then, if he did not execute his part
of the contract with punctuality, ought to have executed it before a great change of circumstances took
place, before the doubts which hung over the title,
and under which he had purchased, were dissipated.
That he did not do so, and was unable to do so, that
in the event of an unfavourable termination of the
suits he would be totally unable to comply with his
contract, weakens very much the claim to a specific
performance, which he sets up after the removal of
the difficulties which attended the title.
Another circumstance which ought to have great
weight, is the change in the value of the land. It
was purchased at 22 dollars 50 cents per acre. Mr.
Brashier failed to comply, and was unable to comply with his. engagements. More than five years

is21.

v.
Gritz.

THE SUPREME COURT
"0CASES.IN"

after the last payment had be4iome due, the .land sudSdenly rises to.theprice of 80 dollars per acre. Then
he tenders the purchase money, and demandsa speV.
Gratz.
cifi. perf6rmanace. Had the land-fallen in value, he
could not have paid the purchase money. This total
want of reciprocity gives increased influence to the
ob.jections to a specific performante, which are furiuiWhed. by this. great alteration in the value of the arUcle.
Both parties have sought to avail themselves of
the transaction with. Mr. Saunders, by whom the
purchase money was tendered in Dec. 1813. The
defendants say that Brashier was still unable to comply with his contract, and that the tender was made
in consequence of an arrangement by which Saunders was to advance the whole purchase money, and
to receive half the land. But it was unimportant to
them, whose money was tendered, or how it was
obtained. Of this circumstance, therefore, they cannot avail themselves.
The plaintiff insists that the contract between the
defendants and Saunders was a fraud on him, because
he had a right to consider Saunders as his friend
and agent. But the tender of the purchase money
was the only service he was. to expect from Saunders, and this service has been performed. He is
precisely in the same situation as if the contract between Saunders and the defendants had never been
made.
It has been also contended, that the concealment
of the survey made by Joseph Gratz, in October,
1807, and the demand of the whole amount of his

1821.
Brashmr

OF .THE UNITED STATES.

notes,-after a knowledge of the deficiency in the
quantity of land, were fraudulent on the part -ofthe
defendants.
Mr. Brashier knew that the survey had been
made, and.had reason to-believe that it disclosed a
deficiency in. the quantity of land. He has sustained
no injury by tne omission to make a.full-communication to him. It is certainly true, that after the
knowledge of this deficiency, Mr. Gratz in his lifetime, and his heirs since -his decease, ought not to
have -demanded the fallamount of his notes. The
Court, therefore,, allows them no advantage from
their reppated offers to p:onvey,. on receiving the
whole amount of the notes, but considers the case
as if no such offers had ever been made.
This then, is a demand for a specific performance,
after a considerable lapse of time, made by -a person
Who has. failed totally to perform his part of the contract, and it is made after a great change, both in
the title, and in the value, of that which was the subject of the contract, and by a person who could not
have been compelled to execute his part of it, had
circumstances taken an unfavourable direction.
In such a case, we are of opinion, that a Court of
equity ought to leave the parties to their remedy at
law.
Decree affirmed.

641
1821.
Brashler

V.
Graiz.

