642

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1821.

United States
V.

Daniel

(PAcTxcE.)

The UNITED

STATES V. DANIEL.

A division of the judges of the Circuit Court, on a motion for a new
trial, in a civil or a criminal case, is not such a division of opinion
as is to be certified to this Court for its decision, under the 6th section of the judiciary act of 1802, c. 291. [xz.]

THis was an indictment in the Circuit -Court of
South Carolina against Lewis Daniel, charging him
with having knowledge of the actual commissibn of
the crime of wilful murder, committed on the high
sea, by John Furlong; and with unlawfully' wickedly, and maliciously, concealing the same, &c.
The indictment set forth, at-large, the indictment
and conviction of John Furlong, for wilful murder
on the high seas, and then charged Lewis Daniel
with -the knowledge and concealment of that murder, and with.not having disclosed the same, -in the
words of the act of Congress. The prisoner was
tried on the plea of not guilty. It was proved that
some of the persons present on board, when the
principal felony was committed, had in conversation
stated the fact of the murder to the defendant, who
advised them to escape, promised secrecy, offered
them the means of escape, and actually assisted one
of them in escaping ; but there was no evidence that
the defendant knew of any fact, which would have
constituted legal evidence on the trial of the principal felon. The judge charged the jury, that the
concealment, under the circumstances, was sufficient
to convict the defendant, am the jury found a ver-

OF THR "UNITED-STATES.

W4

dict of guilty. The defendant "then moved- n arrest
1s2.
of judgment, and for"" a, new trial, on the following United-eStates
grounds. That a person is not liable to be indicted
V.
Darnel.
of
act
the
of
section
5th
the
under
and convicted
April, 1790, c. 36. for the punishment of certain.
crimes against the United States, unless he has such
knowledge of the felony as will enable him to -testify
in Court, at the trial -of the principal felon, and, partrcularly thatj'n this case the evidence did not prove
the defendant guilty of misprision of murder, according to the terms of the said act. The motion was
also supported by an alleged misdirection of the
Court to the jury. The judges being divided in
opinion on this motion, it was drdered to be certified
to this Court.
Mr. Hunt, for the prisoner, (1.) argued, that to mra &h.
constitute the offence of misprision of felony, under.
the 5th section of the Crimes Act of 1790, c.36.
the accused must beproved to have had such a direct and positive knowledge of the actual commission of the felony, as would be legal evidence on the
trial of the principal felon. Here the offence is,
what in law is termed negative misprision.a All the
definitions of misprision imply such a personal knowledge of the fact as would be legal evldence.b But
here there was no such knowledge, and if the Court,
upon a review of the whole case, is satisfied that the
a 4 Bl.Com. c. 9.

3 Inst. 140.

b 4 Tac. Law Dict. 295. Staundf. P C. L. 1. c.19. Hawk.
P C. c.20. s. 4.

3 Inst. 36.

1 Hale's P C.375.

1 Chitty''Crm. Law', 2.

Terms de la Ley, 291.

54-$

CASES IN THE SUPREME 'COURT

defendant has not been found guilty of any legal ofthe judgment will be arrested.' In order to
United States
bring a case within the intention of a statute, its
V.
Daniel. language must include the case , it is not sufficient
1821.

Sfence,

that it is within the reason or mischief, or that the
crime is of equal atrocity, and of an analogous cha.
'acter. The prisoner could not have been a witness
against the principal felon. The law never credits
the bare assertion of any one, however high his rank
or pure his morals, but always requires the sanction
of an oath : and it also requires his personal attendancQ in Court, that he may be examined and crossexamined by the different parties. The few instances in which this rule has been departed from,
and in which hearsay evidence has been admitted,
will be found on examination to be such as from
their very nature are incapable of positive and direct
proof. (2.) This Court has decided, that.the refusal of the Circuit Court to grant a new trial, is not
matter for which a writ of error lies. But in those
ca es the judges of the Court below were unanimous in refusing the new trial, here a division of
opinions is certified, and this Court is bound to decide by the express worals of the judiciary act of
1802, c. 291.
The Attorney- General, contra, (1.) insisted that
there was no grouud for arresting the judgment, or
a I East's P C. 14.6.

1 Caitty's Crm. Law, 663.

St. Trz. 290.

h Wiltberger v United States, 5 Wheat. Rep. 96.

1 II'a*gr.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

W4

1821.
granting a new trial. The evidence brought the
Stats
1790,
C.
United
case completely within the Crimes Act of
V
36. The object of the act was the prompt detection
Daniel.
deThe
enumerated.
crimes
the
of
and punishment
gree of knowledge required.to bring a party within
the misprision described, is such as is sufficient to
justify an arrest, and well-founded suspicion is sufficient for that purpose.6 (2.) The motion in the
Court below, in arrest of judgment, combined with
a motion for a new trial, is novel and unprecedented.
But this combination cannot vary the legal character of these two motions, which is entirely distinct.
A motion in arrest of judgment must be confined to
objections which arise upon the face of the record
itself, and which make the proceedings apparently
erroneous: therefore, no defect in evidence, or improper proceedings at the trial, can be urged. as a
ground for arresting the judgment.' The exceptions
in arrest of judgment are to the indictment.c On the
other hand, a motion for a new trial is for causes
other than defects in the pleadings ; and the circumstance that the verdict was obtained because the
pleadings were defective, will not be permitted to
operate on this motion.d On inspection of the record in this case, it will be found that the only
grounds assigned in support of the joint motion- are
such as are entirely inapplicable to the motion for a
new trial. These grounds are the misdirection of

a Chitty's Crtm. Law, 10. 27. 4 Bl. Comm. 290.
b I Chithj's Crim. Law, 539.
cA-.B..Comm. 375.
a 1 EwiyJ, 535.
69
Von. VL

CASES IN TUE SUPREME COURT

5W6
1821.
United States

v..

Darnel.

the judge, and that the verdict was obtained on insufficient evidence. The Court willi th6refore,
throw out of view the motion to arrest thejudgment,
and consider this as a motion fir anew trial, on
which the judges of the Court below weredivided
in opinion. And if so, there is no question before
this Court" since it has repeatedly decided, that.the
granting or refusal of a new trial, is mere matter of
discretion in the Court below, and hence, the refusal of a new trial, even though the. grounds on
which the motion was founded are spread on the-record, is no sufficient cause-for a writ of error from
this Court.' In a civil case, if the Court below be
divided on such a motion, the motion falls. Nor is
it-otherwise ir a criminal case. This-Court has no
appellate cr inal jurisdiction. It is only by virtue
of the 6th section of the judiciary act of 1802, that
a -criminal case can ever be brought to this Court.
That section was not, however, made exclusively for
criminal cases.. The provision is general : and it is
only by reason of its generality that a question in a
criminal case can ever reach this Court. But being
general, it must have the same construction in all
cases. If, then, in a civil case, a division of the
judges on the mere discretionary question of a new
trial, would bring no question here, neither will it in
a criminal case.

Narch 15h.

Mr. Chief Justice
nion of the Court.
ct

MARSHALL

delivered the opi-

Wheat. Dig. Dec. tit. Practice XV. (A.)

547

OF THE UNITED'D STATES.

The indictment in this case is certainly sufficient to
sustain a judgment according to the verdict, and all
the other proceedings are regular. .There is therefore no cause for arresting the judgment.
The motion for a new trial has neyer, before been
brought to this Court on a division of opinion in- the
Circuit Court. It had been dejcided, that a writ of
error could- not be sustained to any opinion on such
motion, and the reasons for that decision seemed entitled to great weight, when urged.against determining such a motion in this Court, in a case, where
.the judges at the circuits were divided on it.
When we considered fhe motives which must have
operated with the legislature for, introducing this
clause into the judiciary act of 1802, we were. satislied that it could not be' intended to 'apply to motions
for a new trial.
Previous to the passage of that -act, the Circuit
Courts were -composed 'of. three judges, and the
judges of the Supreme-Court changed their Circuits.
If 'all the judges.were present,. no division of opinion could take plhce. If on!y one judge of the Supreme Court should attind, and a division should take
place, the cause was continued till' .the next term,
when a different judge would attend. ,Should the
same division continue, 'there would then be the opinion of two judges against one, and the law provided-,
that in such case that opinion should be the judgment of'the Court. But the act of 1802, made the
judges of the Supreme Court stationary, so that the
same judge constantly attends the same circuit.
This great improvement of the pre-existing system,

18,2.
U
SStates
United

V.
Daniel

M4

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

was attended with this difficulty, The Court'being
~ alway&composed of. the same two judges, any diviUnited States
sion of opinion would reipain, and the question
V
Daniel.
would continue- unsettled. To remedy this inconve7
1821.

nience,- the clause under consideTation was introduced. Its application to motions for a new trial
seems unnecessary. Such a motion is nota part of
the proceedings in the cause;. It is an. applicaion
to the discretion of the Court, founded on endence
which the Court has heard, and which may make
an impression not always to be communicated -by a
statement of that evidence. A division of opinion is
a rejection of -the motion, and the.verdict standS.
There is nothing then in the reason ofthe provision
which wbuld apply it -to this case.
Although .the words of the act direct generally,
"that whenever any question shall occur,, before a
Circuit Court, upon which the opinion. of the judges
shall be opposed, the point upon which the disagreement shall happen shall" be certified, &c. yet it is,
apparent that the question, must be one which arises
in a cause depending before the 'Court relative.to a
proceeding belonging to the cause. The first ptoviso
is, " That nothing herein contiined shall prey.ent
the cause from proceeding, if, in the opinion of the
Court, f rher proceedings can be had without prejudice to the merits."
It was also contenaed, that under the second proviso, Lewis- Daniel ought to. be discharged. That
proviso is in these words : "And provided also that
imprisonment.shall not be allowed, nor punishment
in any case be mflicted, where the judges of the said.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

M49

1821.
Court arc divided in opinion upon the question touchXoWI
ing the said imprisonment or punishment.",
United States
v.
A motion for a new trial is not " the" question
touching the said imprisonment or pumshiient.1 D)an.
That question must arise on the law, as applicable
to the case, and.!s not, it wduld seem, to be referred
to this Court. The proviso, if applicable to such a
case -as this, would .direct the Circuit Court not to
certify their division of opinion to this Cotrrt, but, in
consequence of that division, to enter a judgment for
the defendant. This Court can only decide the
question referred to it, and certify its opinion upon
that question to the Circuit Court, who will then determine whit judgment it is proper to render.
This cause came on to be heard
on the transcript of the record ; and on the points on
whch.the judges in the Circuit Court were divided
mi-pinion, and was argued by counsel On consideration wheredf, this.C6urt is of opinion, that there
is no error in 'the record' and proceedings of the Circuit Court, for which judgment ought to be arrested.
And this Court is farther of opinion, that a division
of the judges of the-Circuit Court, on a motion for a
new trial, is not one of those divisions of opinion
which is to be certified to this Court for its decision,
under the act, entitled, " an act to amend the judicial
system of the United States."
All which isORDERED to be certified to the United States Court for the sixth Circuit and District of
South Carolina.
CERTIrIcATE.

