OF THE UNITED STATES

119
18921.

Thatcher
(LOCAL LAw.)

v.

Po~elL
THATCHER

et a. V. POWELL et al. Lessee.

Theexecution by a public officer ofapower.to sell lands for the non,
payment of taxes, must be m strict pursuance of the law under
which it is made, or no title is conveyed.
It is essential to the validity of the sale of lands for taxes, under the
laws of Teiinessee, that it should appear on the recordof the Court,
by which the order of sale is made, that the Sheriff had returned
that there were no goods and chattels of the delinquent proprietor
out of which the taxes could be made.
The publications which are required by law to be made, subsequent
to the Sheriff's return, and previous to the order of sale, are indispensable preliminaries to a valid order of sale.
In summary proceedings, where a Court exercises an extraordinary
power under a special statute, which prescribes its course, that
course ought to be strictly pursued, and the facts which give jurisdiction, ought to appear on the face of the record. Otherwise,
the proceedings are not meruly voidable, but absolutely void, as
being coram non judie.
In construing local statutes respecting real property, this Court is
governed by the decisions of the State tribunals.

to the Circuit Court of West Tennessee.
This cause was argued at the last term, and at the
present term the opinion of the Court was delivered
ERROR

by Mr. Chief Justice

MARSHALL.

This was an action of ejectment instituted by the
defendants in error against the plaintiffi, to recover
640 acres of land in Montgomery county. Upon
the trial in the Court below, the lessors of the plaintiffs, in support of their title, read in evidence a grant

Febrzwr Wh.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.
4

Thatcher

v.

Powell.

from the State of North Carolina to Stokeley Donaldson, dated the 12th of January, 1797, also a

deed fbr the same land from the said Donaldson to
John Love, dated the 13th of January, 1797, and

registered in Montgomery county, on the 25th of
July, 1815, upon. a probate made in the County
Court of Grange county, at May term of the said
Court, 1814.
The defendants in that Court, to support their
title, read in evidence a transcript of a record from
the County Court of Montgomery county, at their
July session of 1801, as follows, viz.
" laydon Wells, who was appointed by the
Court of Jantfary term, 1801, to receive the list of
taxable property in Captain Boyd's company, reports to Court a list of taxable property in the
county of Montgomery, not listed for the year 1799,
nor taxes paid thereon, to wit among others,
' Stokeley Donaldson 2,560 acres on Yellow Creek
waters.'
" HAYDON WELLS,. T. P 11
" Ordered, that the clerk make out a certificate of
lands aud tenements reported by Haydon Wells,
Esq. for the year 1799, that are liable to the payment of taxes, agreeably to the 14th section of I an
act to ascertain what property in this State shall be
deemed taxable, and the mode of collecting, accounting for, and paying public taxes.' And now, to wit,
at January term, 1802, the following proceedings
were had thereon, to wit, on motion, it is ordered,
adjudged, and decreed, that the tracts of land-entered in the names of the following persons, be subject

OF THE UNITED STATES.

to the payment of taxes due thereon, agreeably to
report of Haydon Wells, Esq. receiver of taxable
property, as delinquent for the year 1799, agreeablyto law, and that execution issue accordingly:"
(among others,) Stokeley Donaldson, 11 dollars 90
cents. Upon which order or judgment, an execution, bearing date the fourth Monday in March, 1802,
was issued to the sheriff of Montgomery county,
commanding him, that of the lands of Stokeley
Donaldson, reported to be in arrears for taxes for the
year 1799, he cause to be made the sum -of 11 dollars 90 cents, as, also, the sum of 1 dollar 40 cents,
and charges, &c. Upon this execution the sheriff
made the following return
"C
Levied on 2133, and advertised agreeably to the
old, not sold, because the new act which requires
it to be advertised in the Gazette did not come forward till the day of sale.
" JOHN SAUNDERS, Sheriff M. C."
On the 1st of May, 1802, an alias execution issued, bearing date the fourth Monday in April, 1802, in
the words of the former, on which the sheriff made
the following return "The within land sold agreeably to law, on the 23d of July, 1802; at seven
mills per acre." They also read in evidence a deed
from John Cocke, Sheriff of Montgomery county,
to Samuel Vance, one of the defendants, dated the
14th of April, 1808, reciting, that whereas John
Saunders, late Sheriff of Montgomery county, did,
on the 23d of July, 1802, by virtue of an execution
or -order of sale, to him directed, from the Court of
VOL. VI.

16

1821.

Thatcber

v.
?owe.

CASES IN THE SUPREMP COUJRT

122
3821.
'

Th1atcher

v.

Powell

Montgomery county, expose to sale 2,560 acres of
land granted to Stokeley Donaldson, or so much

thereof as would be sufficient to satisfy the taxes
due thereon for the year 1799, agreeably to an act
of Assembly n such cases made and provided. And
wheieas Morgan Brown became the purchaser of
2,229 6-7 acres of the said land at seven mills per
acre, he being the highest and best bidder. the taxes
and costs due thereon beipg. 17 dollars 10 cents,
and the said Morgan Brown having authorized a
deed to be made therefor to Samuel Vance 'Now,
the said- John Cocke, in consideration of the said
sum being paid to the said John Saunders,. Sheriff,
&c. doth sell and convey the said 2,229. 6-7 acres of
land, &c. The said deed then described one tract
of 640 acres, the tract in question , also, two other
tracts of 640 acres each, also, one other part of a
survey of land of 309 acres granted to Stokeley
Donaldson.
The lessors of the plaintiffs then introduced grants
from the State of North Carolina to Stokeley Donaldson, all dated about the same time, for two different tracts of land of -640 acres each, a lpart of
which' are those described in the said Sheriff's deed,
all lying upon the waters of Yellow Creek, and proved that the same lay in one connection of surveys
adjoining each other, but those described in the
Sheriff's deed were of much the greatest value.
Upon this evidence the Court instructed the jury,
that it was for them to determine whether the said
lands in the said Sheriff's deed mertioned, were the
same lands which the former Sheriff Saunders had

OF THE UNITED STATES.

sold-or not. If not the same land, then the. said
Sheriff's deed was not good in law. And the Court
farther instructed the jury, that the said retord, or
any thing therein contained, was not sufficient in law
to authorize the sale of the lands made by the said
Sheriff Saunders, nor the deed aforesaid made to
the said Vance, by the said John Cocke, the said
successor of the said Saunders, and that the said
sale and deed did not in law vest any title to said.
lands in the said Samuel Vance.
To this ihstruction of the Court, the counsel for,
the defendants excepted. In consequence of thisinstruction, the jiury found a verdict for ;he plaintiffs,
and a judgment- was accordingly rendered in their
favour. The cause was then brought by writ of
error to this Court.
The oblections made on the record to the-tide
papers of the plaintiff, so far as respects their registration, have not been pressed in this Court, and do
not appear to be sustainable. The plaintiffs in error
rely principally on the deed made by John Cocke,
the sheriff of Montgomery county, on the 14th of
April, 1808, and insist that the instruction given by
the Circuit Court to the jury, on this point, is erroneous.
The validity of this deed depends on the act passed by the Legislature of the State of Tennessee, on
the 25th of October, 1797, respecting the collection
of taxes. The 3d section of that act direts -the
Court of each county, at its session, in the month of
January, in each year, to appoint a justice of the

123
1821.

-.

Powell.

1 4
1821.
Thatcher
e.

Powell.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

peace, for each captain's district in, the county, to

receive lists of the taxable property, for the then
present year."

The 5th section makes it the duty of the sheriff
to
discover, and report in writing, to the clerk of the
Court, such taxable property as may not have been
returned within the time limited by law.
The 6th section directs non-residents to return to
the Court an inventory of their taxable property.
The 9th section enacts, that ifany non-resident
"shall fail, by himslf, his agent, or attorney, to return his, her, or their taxable property, as by the act
directed, the property of such person, so failing, shall
be liable, and stand bound to pay a fine of fifty dollars, and a double tax, to be collected and paid, as by
this act directed, and thejastice shall report the said
property to t1~e -best of his knowledge and information as aforesaid."
The thirteenth section directs the sheriff, in the
event of the non-payment of taxes by a specified
time," to levy the same by distress and sale of the
goods and- chattels of every person so neglecting."
And the 14th section directs the sheriff, in case
there shall not be any goods and chattels on which
,distress may be made, t6 report the same to the
Court of the county, whose duty it is" foxthwith to
direct the clerk to make out a certificate of the
lands and tenements liable for payment of the said
taxes, together with the amount of taxes and
charges due thereon." This is to be published, and
if no person shall pay the taxes and other charges,
within thirty days, tle " Court shall enter up judg-

125

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ment for the amount of taxes due," &c. for which
execution shall issue, under which execution the
land may be sold and conveyed by the sheriff.
and
That no individual or public officer can sell,
convey a good title to, the land of another, unless
authorized so to do by express law, is one of those
self-evident propositions to which the mind assents,
without hesitation, and that the person invested
with such a power, must pursue with precision the
course piescribed by law, or his act is invalid, is a
principle Which has been repeatedly recognised in
this Court. The validity of the sale and deed made
by the sheriff of Montgomery county will then depend on the regularity of the order under which the
sale was made, and on the question whether that
order, if erroneous, will still support the sale which
has been made in pursuance of it.
Previous to an order for the sale of lands for the
non-payment of taxes, the sheriff is ordered to levy
them by distress and sale of the goods and chattels of
the delinquent, and if there be no such goods and
chattels, he is to report the same to the Court, as the
foundation of any proceeding against the lands. By
this act, nojurisdiction is given to the Court over the
lands of a person who has failed to pay his taxes,
until the sheriff shall -report that there are no goods
and' chattels out of which the taxes may be made.
This being an important fact on which the jurisdiction of the Court depends, it ought, we thwk, to
appear on record, either in the judgment itself, or in
the previous proceedings.
In this case no such report appears to have been

1821.
Thatcher

v.
Poweelh

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.
%lAtober

Thatcher

V.
Poeil

made. Could it even be contended that this report
might be presumed, the answer is, that the terms of
the order exclude such a presumption. It would appear, that the report of the magistrate, that the land
in question had not been listed, was made in July,
1801, and that the Court immediately made that
order which the law directs to be made on the sheriff's repoft, that there are no goods and-chattels; and
this order refers not to any report of the sheriff, not
to any deficiency of goods and chattels; -but to the
report of the justice of peace, that the lands have
not been listed.
This is not the only defect which appears in theseproceedings. Previous to an order for a sale of land,
aifd subsequentrto the report of the sheriff certain
publications are to be. made in the manner and form
prescribed by the act.- These publications are indispensable preliminaries to the order of sale. They
do not appear to have been made. The.judgment
against the land was given at January term, 1802,
on mot141, without its appearing by recital or other-wise, that the requisites- of the law, in this respect,
had been complied with, and. that the tax still remained unpaid.
We think this ought to have appeared in the record.
The argument is, that the judgment, for these
errors in the proceedings of the County Court, may
be voidable, but is not void , that until it be reversed,
it is capable of supporting those subsequent proceedings which were founded on it.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

We think otherwise. In summary proceedings,where a Court exercises an extraordinary power
under a special statute prescribing its course, we
think that course ought to be exactly observed, and
those facts especwilly which give jurisdiction, ought
to appear, in order fo show that its proceedings
are coram judice. Without this act of Assembly,
the order for sdle would have been totally void.
Thils act gives the power only on a report to be
made by.the Sheriff. 'This report gtves the Court
jurisdiction, and without it, the Court is as power.less as if the act had never passed.
In construing the acts of .the Legislature of a
State, the decisiQns of the'State tribunals have always governed this.Court. In Tennessee, the question arising in this cause, after considerable discussion, -seems to have been finally settled on principles which are thought entirely correct.. The case
of Franczs.-Lssee v Washburn & Russelly.reported
in 5 Hayjwood, is this very case, and was decided as
this case was decided.in, the Circuit Court. On the
authoritv of that case, and on principle, the Court
is of opinion, that there is no error in the judgment
of the Circuit Court.
Judgment affirmed.

127
1821.
Thatcher

V.
Powen.

