OF THE UNITED STATES.

593
1821.

(LoCAL

LAw.)

Goszler
V.

GOSZLER

V. THE

The CorpoCORPORATION OF GEORGETOWN.

ration of
Georgetown.

The power given to the Corporation of Georgetown, by the act of Maryland, of Novemoer, 1797,c. 56. to gradliate the streets of that
City, is a continuing power, and the Corporation may from time to
time alter the graduation so made.
The ordinance of May, 1799,-by which the Corporation of Georgetown
first exercised the power of'graduating the streets, is not in the nature of a compact, and may be altered by the Corporation.

THis cause was argued by Mr. Eey for the ap,

pellant, and by Mr. Jones for the respondent.
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the. Court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit
Court of the United States forthe county of Washington, in the District of Columbia, on the following
case •
In the year 1797, the Legislature of Maryland,
among certain additional powers given to the Corporation of Georgetown, enacted, that they "shall have
full power and authority to make such by-laws and
ordinances for the graduation and, levelling of the
streets, lanes and alleys within the jurisdiction of
the same town, as they may judge necessary for the
benefit thereof.'"-Act of Nov. 1797, c. 56. s. vi.
p. 35.
In pursuance of this authority, the Corporation
Vor,. VI.

75

Mac

161h.

M

1&th.

694

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

passed an ordinance in May, 1799, for the graduation of certain streets-the first section of which apGoszler
points commissioners, a i authorizes them "to make
V.
The Corporation of (he level and graduation of the streets ;" and the seOrgetowln. cond is in these words:
" And be it ordained, that the said level and
graduation, when signed by the said, commissioners
or a majority of them, and returned to the clerk of
ths Corporation, shall be forever thereafter considere4 as the true graduation of the streets so graduated, and be binding upon this Corporation, and
all other person&-whatever, and be forever thereafter
regarded in making improvements upon said streets."
The plaintiff in error owned lots upon one of
these streets, and mad-e improvements thereon,. accordingto the graduation made and returned to the
clerk of the Corporation, under the directions of this
ordinance. In September, 1816, the corporation
passed another ordinance, directing the level and graduaton of this street to be altered, and the comms.sioners appointed, being about to cut down tie
street by the plaintiff's house, were enjoined from
proceeding by a bill filed by the plaintiff against
them and the Corporation.
Upon the final hearing of this case, the Circuit
Court dismissed the bill, being of opinion that the
Corporation had the power asserted in their answer,
of altering the level and graduation of a street graduated under their former ordinance of'May, 1799.
The counsel for the appellant contends, that the
Circuit Court erred in dismissing his bill, because,
1st. The power to graduate streets as given by
1821.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the Legislature of Maryland, was not a continuing

$95
1821.

power, but was completely executed by the ordiV.
dance of May, 1799, and has never been renewed.
The Corpo2d. The ordinance of May, 1799, is in the na- ration of
Georgetwan.
ture of a compact, and is unalterable.
1. The language of the act certainly does not imply
that the power it confers is exhausted in its first exercise. The power is not "to graduate and level
the streets," or "to make a by-law for the graduation and levelling of the streets ;" but "to make such
by-laws and ordinances for the graduation and levelling of the streets, &c. within the jurisdiction of the
same town, as they may judge necessary for the benefit thereof."
The act seems to contemplate a continuance of
the power, and a repetition of the by-laws and ordinances, as the Corporation " may judge necessary
for the benefit of the town." It gives a power to legislate on the subject, and to pass more than one bylaw and ordinance respecting it. Unless, then, there
be in the nature of the operation something which
forbids its repetition, the words of the act import no
such prohibition.
There can be no doubt that the power of graduating and levelling the streets ought not to be capriciously exercised. Like all power, it is susceptible
of abuse. But it is trusted to the inhabitants themselves, who elect the corporate body, and who may
therefore be expected to-consult the interests of the
town.
Although thi§ power may be oppressively repeated,
the possession of it cannot be pronounced so impro-

596
1821.
Goszler

CASES IN 'THE SUPREME COURT

per or so dangerous, as to control, essentially, the
words which confer it. The graduation and levelZ operaling of the streets, is not, necessarily, a single

CorpoThe V.
ration of tion.

There may be circumstances to produce a ge-

Georgetown. neral desire to vary the graduation, to. bring the

streets more nearly on a level than was contemplated
in the first ordinance" and, if this may occur, we
cannot say that the legislature could not intend to
give this power of varying the graduatiop, when the
words they employ are adapted to the giving of it.
Two acts of Congress for amending the charter ol
Georgetown *have been relied on. That passed in
January, 1805, empowers the Corporation ,"
to open
and extend, and regulate streets withu the limits of
the said t.wn, pr ,vided they make to the person or
persons whb ma; be injured by.such opening, .extension, or"reglation, just and adequate compensation,
to be sustained by the. verdict.., of an impartiai jury,
summoned' &c. "who shall proceed in like manner,
as has beeft .aisu4 -in other cas~es, whvre private property has been-condemned for public use."
For the Corporatiqn, )t has been contended, that
the word "1regulate" implies some operation on the
streets themselvs, o.is entirely senseless, and if it
implies any such operation, it must comprehend
thpir graduatiqn.
The objection made by counsel to this. argument,
is, the improbability that the word "regulate," would
be substituted for" graduate," if it were used in the
same sense , and the words directing the duty of the
jury. They are to "1proceed in like manner, as-has
been asual in other cases, where private property-has

OF THE UNITED -STATES.

been condemned for public use." The word "regu182t.
late" then, it is said is shown
by
this
expression,
to
J
Goszler
be applicable only to those cases in which private
V.
The- Corpoproperty is condemned to public use, which is not raton of
Georgetown.
done in graduating a street.
This construction is supposed to be strengthened
by the act of 1809, which again empowers the Corporation " to lay out, open, extend, and regulate
streets, lanes and allies," but confines the use of the
jury for assessing damages to those-sustained " by
reason of opening or extending any street, lane or
alley."
The opinion that the original power continues
after-its first exercise, renders it unnecessary to decide on the extent which may and ought to be given
to the word 11regulate. "
2. The second point presents a question of some
difficulty. One object of the ordinance probably
was, td give as much validity to the graduation made
by the commissioners, as if it had been made under
the direct superintendance of the corporate body.
But u cannot be disguised, that a promise is held
forth to all who should build on the graduated
streets, that the graduation should be unalterable.
The Court, however, feels great difficulty In saying,
that this ordinance can operate as a perpetual restraint on the Corporation.
When a government enters into a contiract, there is
no doubt of its power to bind itself to any extent not
prohibited by its constitution. A Corporation can
make such contracts only as are allowed by- the acts
of incorporatiort. The power of this body to make

9CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

598
1821.

%

M-Clung

V.

Sii

.

a contract which should so operate as to. bind its legislative capacities forever thereafter, and disable it
from enacting a by-law, which the Legislature enables it to enact, may well be questioned.

We rather

think thidt the Corporation cannot abridge its own
legislative power.
Decree affirmed.

(CONSTITUTIONAL Liw.)
M'CLUNG V. SILLMAN.

A-StaNe Court cannot issue a mandamus to an officer of the Unitea
States.
arch 12t.

THIS cause was argued by Mr. Harper, for the

plaintiff rn error, and by Mr. Doddrldge, for the defendant.
rareh 11h.

Mr. Justice JOHNsoN delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case presents no ordinary group of legal
questions. They exhibit a striking specimen of the
involutions which ingenuity may cast about legal
rights, and an instance of the growing pretensions
of some of the State Courts over the exercise of the
powers of the general government.
The plaiutff in error, who was also the plamutiff

