OF THE UNITED STATES
1821.

(CONSTITUTIONAL LAW.

LOCAL LAW.)

MAYHEW V. THATCHER et al.
As by the laws of Louisiana, questions of fact in civil cases are triei
by the Court. unless either of the parties demands a jury; in an ction of debt on a judgment, the interest on the original judgment
'may be computed and make part of the judgment in Louisiana,
without a writ of inquiry and the intervention of a jury.
The record of a judgment in one State, is conclusive evidence in another. although it appears that the suit, in which it was rendered,
was commenced by an attachment of property, the defendant having afterwards appeared and taken defence.

ERROR

to the District Court of Louisiana.

This was an action of debt commenced by the defendants in error against the plaintiff in error in the
District Court of Louisiana, upon a judgment obtained in the Circuit Court of Ma.sachusetts. The
original suit, in which the judgment was obtained,
was commenced by a process of foreign attachment,
according to the local laws of Massachusetts; but
the defendant, Mayhew, subsequently appeared and
took defence. Tue cause was referred to arbitrators,
and judgment rendered upon their report against the
deibndant, Mayhew, for the sum of $4,788 57 debt,
and 284 33 cents costs. The defendants in error having declared upon this judgment against the
plaintiff in the District Court of Louisiana, the
plaintiff in error pleaded nil debet, to which plea
there was a general demurrer, and judgment being
rendered thereon for the defendants in error. for the
VOL.

Y .

13

Mayhew
V.
Thatcher.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.

Mae
V.

sum of 5,072 dollars and 90 cents debt, with interest
thereon, &c. and the cause was brought before this,
Court.

Thatcher.

P. 101

This cause was argued by Mr. C. f. Ingersollfor
the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Hopznson and Mr.
Mills for the defendants in error.'

FY.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the -opimon of the Court, that as by the local laws and practice of Louisiana, questions of fact in civil cases
were tried by the Court,.unless either of the parties
demanded a jury,, the interest upon the original
judgment in Massachusetts might be computed, and
make a part of the judgment in Louisiana, without
a writ of inquiry and the intervention of a jury.
And that although the original suit was-commence4
by an. attachment, yet that the defendant, Mayhew,
had personal notice of the suit, and afterwards appeared and took defence, so that even supposing
there was any objection to the proceeding by attachment, it was cured by the appearance of the defendant, and his litigating the suit.
Judgment affirmed.

&

a The latter cited Brown v Van Braam, 3 DalU. 344.
Renner.v. Marshall, I Wheat. Rep. 215. to show that where the
action i, brought for a sum certain, or which may be made certain by computation, judgment for the damages may be entered

up by the Court without a writ of inquiry.

