9CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

598
1821.

%

M-Clung

V.

Sii

.

a contract which should so operate as to. bind its legislative capacities forever thereafter, and disable it
from enacting a by-law, which the Legislature enables it to enact, may well be questioned.

We rather

think thidt the Corporation cannot abridge its own
legislative power.
Decree affirmed.

(CONSTITUTIONAL Liw.)
M'CLUNG V. SILLMAN.

A-StaNe Court cannot issue a mandamus to an officer of the Unitea
States.
arch 12t.

THIS cause was argued by Mr. Harper, for the

plaintiff rn error, and by Mr. Doddrldge, for the defendant.
rareh 11h.

Mr. Justice JOHNsoN delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case presents no ordinary group of legal
questions. They exhibit a striking specimen of the
involutions which ingenuity may cast about legal
rights, and an instance of the growing pretensions
of some of the State Courts over the exercise of the
powers of the general government.
The plaiutff in error, who was also the plamutiff

OF THE UNITED STATES.

M

1821.
below, supposes hupself entitled to a pre-emptive
interest in a. tract of land in the State of Ohio, and M'CluDC
V.
claims of the register of the land office of the United States, the legal acts and documents upon which siim.
such rights are initiated. That officer refuses, under
the idea, that the right is already legally vested in
another; and that he possesses, himself, no power
over the subject in controversy. A mandamus is
then moved for in the Circuit Court of the United
States, and that Ccurt decides, that -Congress has
vested it with no such controlling power over the
acts of the ministerial officers in the given case.
The same application is then preferred to the State
Court for the county in which the subject in controversy is situated. The State Court sustains its
own jurisdiction over the register of the land office,
but on a view of the merits of the claim, dismisses
the motion.
From both-these decisions appeals are wade to this
Court, in form of a writ of error.
In the ease of-M'intite v. Wooda decided in this
Court, in 1813, the mandamus contended for was
intended to perfect the same claim, and in point of
fact. the suit was between the same parties; The
influence of that decision on these cases, is resisted,
on the ground, that it did not appear in that case,
that the controversy was between parties who, under
the. descrptton of person, were entitled to maintain
suits in the Courts of the United States, whereas,
the averments in the present cases show. that the
parties litigant are citizens of different Statep, and.
a 7 Cranch, 504.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

600
1821.
'

M'Clung

B.

Siliman.

therefore, competent parties in the Circuit Court.
But we think it perfectly clear, from an examination
of the decison alluded to, that it was wholly unmfluenced by any considerations drawn from the want
of personal attributes of the parties. The case came
up on a division of opinion, and the single question
stated is, "whether that Court had power to'issue
a writ of mandamus to the register of a land office
in Ohio, commanding him to issue a final certificate
of purchase to the plaintiff for certain lands in .the
State ?"
Both the argument of counsel, and the opinion of
the Court, distinctly show, that the power to issue
the mandamus in that -case, was contended foras
incident to the judicial powers of the United States.
And the reply of the Court is, that though, argumenti gratia, it be admitted, that this controlling
pPwer over its ministerial officers, would follow
from vesting in its Courts the whole judicial power
of the United States, the argument fails here, since
the legislature has only made a partial delegation of
its judicial powers to the Circuit Courts ; that if the
inference be admitted as far as the judicial power
of the Court actually eitends, still, cases arising
under the laws of the United States, are not, per se,
among the cases comprised within the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court, under the provisions of the 1 th
secion , jurisdiction being in such cases reserved to
the Supreme Court, under the 26th section, by way
of appeal from the decisions of the State Courts.
There is, then, no jtust infer-nce to be drawn from
the decision in the case of M'fntire v. Mood, in fa-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

your of a case in which the Circuit Courts of the
United States are vested with jurisdiction under the
11th section. The idea is in opposition to the express words of the Court, in response to the question
stated, which are, " that the Circuit Court did not
possess the power to issue the mandamus moved
for."
It is now contended, that as the parties to thiscontroversy are competent to sue under the 11th
sectioil, being citizens of different States, that this
is a case within the provisions of the l4th section,
and the. Circuit Court was vested with power to
issue this writ, under the description of a "writ not
specially provided for by statute," but 11 necessary
for the "exercise of its jurisdiction." The case certainly does present one of those instances of equivo61 language, in which the proposition, though true
in the abstract, is in its application to the subject
glaringly .incorrect. It cannot be denied, that the
exercise of this power is necessary to the exercise of
jurisdiction in the Court below, but why is it necessary P Not because that Court possesses jurisdiction, but because it does not possess it. It must exercise this power, and compel the. emanation of the
legal document, or the execution of the legal act by
.the register of. the land office, or. tie party cannot
sue.
The 14th section of the act,un.der, consideration,
could only have been intended* to *vest the power
now contended for, in cases where the jurisdiction
already exists, and not where it is to be courted or
VOL. V.

76

i82i.

Y.

W02

"CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

acquired, by. means of.the writ proposed to be sued
Such was tbe.case brought up from Louisiana,
Soat.
MVl.ng in which the judge refused t6 proceed to judgment
sMiman. by which act, the plaintiff'must have lost his remedy
2s1.

below, and this Court have been deprived of its appellate control; oyer the question ofright.
The remaining questions bear a striking analogy
to that already disposed of.
The State Court having decided in- favour of its
own jurisdiction over. the register, the appellant, so
far, had nothing to complain of. It is only where -a
State Court decides aganst the claim set-up under
the laws of the United States, that appellate jurisdiction is given from the State decisions. But-in the
next step of his progress, he was not equally fortunate. The State Cburt rejected his application.on
-the merits of his olaim, and appear to have decided
that an entire section might be divided-into fractions,
by the river Muskingum, in a legal sense. Of this
he now complains, and contends that the decision is
contrary -to the laws of the United States.
From this state of facts, the following embarrassment arises. The United States officer, the defendant, can have no inducement to contest a jurisdiction that has given Judgment in his favour: and
the plaintiff in error must sustain its junsdiction, or
relinquish all claim to the relief sought for through
its agency. And thus this Court, with its eyes open
to the defect in the jurisdiction of -the Court below,
is called upon to take cognizance of the merits of the
question, both parties. being thus equally interested,
in sustaining the jurisdiction asserted by that Court.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

6M3

Let the course which this Court ought to pursue,
181.
N
be tested by consequences. The alternative is to M'CIung
V.
give judgment for or against the plaintiff. If it be
given for him, this Court must invoke that Court to Silliman.
issue the writ demanded, or pursuing the alternative
given by the 25th section, it must itself proceed
to execute the judgment which that Court ought to
have given. Or, in other words, to issue the writ of
mandamus, in a case to which it is obvious that neither the jurisdiction of that Court, nor this, extends.
No argument can resist such an obvious deductio
2n absurdum.
It is not the first time that this Court has encountered similar difficulties, in its advance to questions.
brought up from other tribunals. It has avoided
them by deciding that it'is not. bound to encounter
phantoms. The party who proposes to avail himself of a defective jurisdiction, has nothing to complain of, if he is left to take the consequences. His
antagonist might have had cause to complain-he can
have none. And, notwithstanding express evidence
of the contrary, this Court feels itself sanctioned, in
referring the decision of the State Court, in this case,
to the ground on which it ought to have been made,
instead of that on which it appears to have been
made. The question before an appellate Court is,
was the judgment correct, not the ground on which
the judgment profcsses to proceed.
Whether a State Court generally possesses a power
to issue. writs of mandamus, or what modifications of
its powers may be imposed on it, by the laws which
constitute it, it is correctly argued, that this Court

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

904
182L,
"
M'Ciu.g
's"

V,

cannot be called upon to decide. But when the exercise of that power is extended to officers commissmoed by the United States, it is immaterial under
.what law that authority be asserted, .the controlling
power of this Court may be asserted on the subject,
uinder-the description of an exemption claimed by
the officer over whom it is exercised.
It is not easy to conceive on what legal ground a
State tribunal can, in any instance, exercise the
power of issuing-a mandamus to the register of a
land office. The United States have not thought
proper to delegate that power to their own Courts.
But when in the cases of Marbury v. Madison, and
that of M'Intire v. Wood, this Court decided against
the exercise of that power, the idea never presented
itself to any one, that it was not within the scope of
the juidicial powers of the United States, although
not vested by law, in the Courts of the general Government. And no one will seriously contend, it is
presumed, that it is among the reserved powers of
the States, because not communicated by law to the
Courts of the United States
There is but one shadow ofra ground on which such a
power can be contended for, which is, the general rights
of legislation which the States possess over the soil
within their respective territories? It is not now necessary to consider that power, as to the soil reserved to the
Uuited States, in the States respectively. The question in this case is, as to .the power of the State
Courts, over the officers of the general Government,
employed in disposing of that land, under, the laws
passed for that purpose. And here it is obvious, that

OF THE UNITED STATES.

he is to be regarded either as an officer of that Government, or as its private agent.

In the one capa-

city or the other, his conduct can only be controlled
by tjie power that created him; since, whatever

doubts have from time to time been suggested, as to
the supremacy of the United States, in its legislative,
judicial, or executive powers, no one- has ever contested its supreme right to dispose of its own property in its own way And when we find it withholding from its own Courts, the exercise of this
controlling power over its ministerial officers, employed in the appropriation of its lands, the inference clearly is, that all violations of private right,
resulting from the acts of such -officers, should be the
subject of actions for damages, or to recover the specific property, (according to circumstances) in Courts
of competentjurisdiction. That is, that parties should
be referred to the ordinary mQde of obtaining justice,
insteAd of resorting to the extraordinary and unprecedented mode of trying such questions on a motion
for a mandamus.
JUDGMENT.

This cause came on to be heard, on

the transcript of the record of the Supreme Court of
the State of Ohio, for Muskingum county, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is
ADJUDGED and ORDERED, that the judgment of the
said Supreme Court of the State of Ohio, be, and
the same is hereby affirmed, with costs, it being the
opinion of this Court, that the said Supreme Court
of the State of Ohio, had no authority to issue a
mandamus in this case.

605
1821.
M'Cluaff

V.
silliman.

