OF THE UNITED STATES.
1821.

(CONSTITUTIONAL

LAw.)

FARMERS AND MECHANICS' BANK OF PENNSYLVANIA
V SMITH.

An act of a State Legislature which discharges a debtor from all lia-

bility for debts contracted previous to his discharge, on his surrendenng his property for the benefit of his creditors, is a liw.mpair-

Ing the obligation of contracts within the meaning of the constitution of the United States, so far as it attempts to discharge the
contract and it makes no difference in such a case. that the suit
was brought in a State Court of the State, of which both the
parties were citizens, where the contract was made, and the.

discharge obtained, and where they continued to reside until the
suit was brought.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of
Pennsylvania.
This was an action of assumpsit brought l y- the
plaintiffs in error, in the Supreme Court of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, against the defendant
in error, as endorser of a promissory note, made at
.Philadelphia by one Edward Shoemaker, on the
6th of June, 1811, for 2,600 dollars, payable in six
months after. date, and endorsed&by the defendant.to
the plamuffs at the same place, on the same day.
The declaration was in the usual form; and the defendant pleaded, that on the 8th day of September,
1812, he was a citizen of the said Commonwealth,
residing in the city and county of Philadelphia, and
having resided there for more than two years before
that time ; and that being such citizen and resident,
he, the defendant, in conformity to the act of the

Farmers and
ofecbanics?
Bank of
Penbsylvama
v.
6mit.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.

Legislature of the said Commonwealth, passed on

Fthe
Far
mel's and
Mechancs'
Daok of
Pennsylvania

relief of insolvent debtors residing in the city and
county of Philadelphia," did, on the said 8th day of

sith.

lath of March, 1812, entitled, " An act for the

September, 1812, at the city of Philadelphia afore-

said, present Ins petition to Charles Jared Ingersoll,
&c. the Commissioners appointed under and by virtue of said act, &c. in which petition, he, the said
petitioner, did state his belief, that he was insolvent,
and did pray that he mjglir be permitted to assign all
his estate and property for the benefit of his creditors,
and be discharged by virtue of said act. Whereupon
the said Commissioners did appoint Mathew Randall, &c to be curators, to whom the defendant did
thereupon forthwith assign all his estate, real and
personal, in conformity with the provisions of the
said act. Arid the said Commissioners did then and
there appoint the second day of OctQber, 1812, aforesaid, for the hearing the defendant and his creditors,
of which due notice was given according to the
provisions of the act aforesaid. Upon which day,
&c. the said petitioner did exhibit a true account and
list of all his creditors, and moneys due, and to become due, and owing to them respectively by him,
and, also, au inventory and account of his estate,
real and personal, and of all interest of him, the said
petitioner, either present or contingent, in any thing
of value, and of all books, vouchers, and securities
relating to the same. And thereupon the said.
Charles Jared Ingersoll, one of the said Commissioners, did administer to him, the said petitioner,
the oath required by the said law, which was duly

OF THE UNITED STATES.

taken by hun, the said petitioner, according to the 1821.
requisition of tho said law. And, afterwards. &c. Partners and
the said Commissioners did assign to Cnandler MmhaDW
Bank of"
Price, &c., who were duly nominated and appointed Pennaylvama
V.
assignees, all the estate, real and personal, of him
Smith.
the said petitioner, or which was of him the said
petitioner, at the time of the provisional assignment
so as aforesaid made to the curators aforesaid. And
the sAid Commissioners did app6int the: 15th day of
-October, then next, for a second examination of him
the said petitioner. Upon which second examination, it appearing to the satisfaction of the said Commissioners, that the said petitioner had not concealed
any part of his property, &c., and he, the said petitioner, having also, in all other things, conformed to
the provisions of the said act, the said Commissioners
did, then and there, give to him, the said petitioner, a
certificate, under their hands and seals, that he, the
said petitioner, had, in all things, conformed to, and
was discharged by, said act. The plea also averred,
that the cause of action arose in the city and county
of Philadelphia, from contracts made within the
same, and that the plaintiffs and defendants were, at
the time the said contracts were made, and at the
time the causes of action accrued, and at the time
the said act passed, citizens of the State of Pennsylvania, and still continued to be citizens thereof. To
this. plea there was a demurrer ; and judgment being
rendered thereon for the defendant, the cause was
brought by writ of error to this Court.

134
1821.
F'armers and
Mechanics'
Bank of

Pennsylvania
V.

Smith.
Frucn 12th.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

This cause was argued by Mr. Hophnson, for the
plaintiffs, and by Mr. Sergeant, for the-defendant.
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinon of the Court, that this case was not distin-

guishable from its former decisions on the same subject,4 except by the circumstances, that the defendant. in the present case, was a- citizen of the same
State with the plaintiffs, at the time the contract
was made in that State, and remained such at the
time the suit was commenced in its Courts. But
that these facts made no difference in the cases.
The constitution of the United States was made for
the whole people of the Union, and is equally binding upon all the Courts and all the citizens.
Judgment reversed.
This cause came on to be heard ort
JUDGMENT.
the transcript of the record of the Supreme Court
for the Eastern District of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, the Court is of opinion, that the
said Supreme Court for the Eastern District of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, erred in giving
judgment for the defendant, on the demurrer of the
plaintiffs to the plea of the said defendant. It is,
therefore, adjudged and ordered, that the judgment
of the said Supreme Court for the Eastern District
of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania be, and
a Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. Rep. 122.

M'Neill, td. 209.

M'MilIan

OF THE UNITED STATFM

the same is hereby reversed and annulled. And it
is farther ordered, that the said cause be remanded
to the .said Supreme Court for the Eastern District
of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, with directions to enter judgment for the plaintiffs in the said

Court.

(CommoN LAvW.

COWSTaUCTION oF STATUTE.)

UNITED STATES V. WILKINS.

Where, in a, contract with the Secretary of War, for supplying tle
troops of the United States with provisions, specific prices are stipa-lated for rations issued at certain places mentioned in the contract;
and it is further provided, that "should any rations be required at
any places not specified in this contract, the price of the same shall
be hereafter agreed on betwixt the public and the contractor;" it
the parties cannot agree upon the price for the rations thus required. a reasonable compensation is to be allowed, and is to be proved
by competent evidence, and settled by a jury; and the contractor,
upon the trial, is at liberty to show, that the sum allowed by the
Secretary of War is not a reasonable compensation.
Under the 3d and 4tb sections of the act of the 3d of March, 1797,
c. 74. the defendant is. entitled, at the trial, to the full benefit of
any credit in his favour, whether ansing out of the particular transaction for which he was sued, or out of distinct and independent
transactions, which would constitute a legal or equitable set-off, in
whole or in part, of the debt sued for by the United States.

THIS was an action of debt brought in the District
Court of Kentucky against the defendant, a former

contractor for supplying the troops of the United

1821.
U. states

V.
Wilkins.

