OF THE UNITED STATES.

such intention. In this act, there are no such words,
unless they are found in the reference to the Courts
of Maryland. But on inquiry, we find, that in
Maryland, an " adjourned session" is considered as
the same session with that at which the adjournment was made. Since, then, the term at which.
this conditional or office judgment was-to become
final,. was still continuing when it was set aside, and
the- defendant permitted to plead to the declaration,
there was no error in that proceeding.
Judgment -affirmed;

(CHAcEnRY.

CommoN L&w.)

HOPKINs v. LEE.
A judgment or decree of a Court of competent jurisdiction is conclusive wherever the same matter is again brought in controversy.
But the rule does not apply to points which come only collaterally
under consideration, or are only incidentally considered, or can
only be argumentatively inferred from the decree.
Inan action at law by the vendee, against the vendor, for a breach of
the contract, in not delivering the thing sold, the proper measure
of damages is not the price stipulated in the contract, but the value
at the time of the breach.
This rule applies to the sale of real, as well as personal property,
but, Qu re, Whether it is the proper measure of damages in the
case of an action for eviction

ERRORWtO

the Circuit Court for the District of

Columbia.
Tins was aii action of covenant, brought by the de-

1821.
Hoplans

V.
Lee.

MCOURT
CASES IN THE SUPREME
1821.
p
Hopkins

v.
Lee.

fendant in error, (Lee,) against the plaintiff in error,
(Hopkins,) to recover damages tor not conveying
certain tracts of military lands, which the plaintiff in
error had agreed to convey, upon .the defendant in
error relieving a certain incumbrance held by one
Rawleigh -Colston, upon an estate called Hill and
Date, and which Lee had previously granted and
sold to Hopkins, and for which the military -landsi#
question were to be received in part payment. Thb
dedlaraton set forth the covenant, and averred that
Lee had completely removed the ineumbrance, from
Hill and Dale. The defendant below -pleaded; 1.
That he bad notcompletely removed the incumbrance;
and, 2. That he (the defendant below)' had never been
required by Lee to convey the nilitary lands- to
him' and on' these pleas issues were joined. Upon
the trial, Lee, in order to prove the incumViance in
question was removed, offered in. evidbnce to the
jury a record of the proceeding in Chancery, on a
bill filed against him in the Circuif Court by Hopkins. The bill stated, that on the 23d of January,
1807, the date of the agreement on: which the present action' at law was brought, -Hopkmns purchased
of Lee, the estate of Bill and Dae, for which he
agreed to pay 18,000 dollars -viz. 10,000 dollars in
military lands, at settled prices% and to give his
bond for the resid'e, payable in April, 1809. That
Lee, in pursuance of this agreement, selected certain military lands in the bill mentioned. That at
the time of the purchase of Hill and Dale, it was
mortgaged to Colston for a large sum, which Lee had
promised to discharge, but had fgited so to do, in
consequence of which .:Lopzums had paid off the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

.mortgage himself. The bill then claimeA a large
sum of money from Lee for having-removed this incumbrance, and prayed that the defendant might be
decreed to pay it, or in default thereof, that the
claimant might be authorized by a d§cree of Chancery to sell'the military lands, which, he considered
as a pledge remaining in his hands, and out of the

proceeds thereof; to pay him.self. On the coming in
of Lee's answer, denying several of the allegations
of the bill, the cause was referred to a master, who
made a report, stating a balance of 427 dollars 77
cents, due from Hopkins to .Lee. This report. was
not excepted tb, and the Court, after referring.to-it,
proceeded to decree the payment of ihe balance,.
To this testimony the defendant'in the present action
objected, so far as respected the reading of the master's
report, and the decretal order thereon ; 'but the objecfion- was overruled by the Court beloy, and the evidence admitted. The counsel for the plaintiff in
'error then prayed the Court to instruct the jury, that
in the assessment of damages, they should take the
price of the military lands as agreed upon by the
parties in the articles of agreement upon which the
action, was brought, as the measure of damages for
the breach of covenant. But the Court refused to
give this -instruction, and directed -thejury to take
the price of the lands,'at the time they ought to have
been eonveyed, as the measure of damages. To
this instruction the plaintiffin error -excepted ,. and a
.verdict and, judgment thereon being rendered for
the plainuff below, the cause was' brought by writ of
-error to this Court.

1821.
Hopkins"

..
Lee.

11-2
1824.

I-Iok'
V.
Lee.

FerarQyJ7t.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Mr. Pinkney and Mr. Swan , for the plaintiff in
error, argued, (L) That the proceedings in Chancery
were not admissible evidence in the action at law.
A verdict and judgment are indeed conclusive evidence between the same parties, but the other proceedings in the cause, and all that which is merely
inducement to the verdict or judgment, are not evidence. So, a decree in Chancery is not conclusive
evidence of all the facts in the course of the cause.
Not that the decree is not conclusive. as a resjudicata but the decree here is no otherwise conclusive than as giving the party, in whose-favour it was
pronounced, a right to have it executed. It-is not
evidence at all, unless it be conclusive evidence:
but it cannot be conclusive evidence of the details of
the cause, and of the incidental questions which
arose in its progress. (2.) The proper measure of damages in the action at law, was the price agreed by
the parties. When a portipn of.the price of-land is
to.be paid for in other land, the pecuniary price, with
interest, is the rule at law, where specific performance is not called for. It is thus- subjected to- the
analogical rule in the Court-of Chancery, where the
contract is rescinded, instead of being specifically
performed.
Mr. Jones and- Mr. Lee, for the defendant in er ror, insisted, (I.) That the proceedings in Chancery
were not only admissible evidence in the- suit at law,
but vonclusive evidence. -It may be safely- admnitted that the decree is not evidence of such facts as
are only collaterally or incidentally drawn in ques-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tion, or can only be argumentatively infened from
the decree.

But where the decree professes to be

ati.
'
Hopkins

founded on a partidular fact,
which was the principal
'
question in issue, and was ascertained by the master's report, it must be conclusive in any other suit
between the same parties. (2.) As to the proper
measure of damages, it is the settled doctrine of this
Court, that in an action by the purchaser for. a breach
of the contract of sale, the rule .of damages'is the
price of the article at the time of the breach.6 It is
true, that the case of. Shepherd v. Hampton, was a
sale of goods; but it is not perceived that there.is
any difference in the application -of,the principle to
real or to personal property.

V.
Lge.

Mr. Justice LIVINGSTOx delivered the opinron of
the Court.
The first question which this Court has' to consider is, whether the proceedings in Chancery were
properly qdmitted in -evidence in the Court below,

Feb. 121h,

It is Uot denied, as a general rule, that a fact which Co n-iusee
has been directly tried, and decided bya Court.of of' te
.

competent jurisdiction, cannot be contested again
between the same parties, in the same or any other
Court. Hence a verdict and jadgment of a Court
of record, or a decree in Chancery, although-not
binding on strangers, puts an end to all further controversy concerning the.points thus decided between
the parties to such suit.. In this, there is and ought
to be, no difference between a verdict and judgment
a Shepherd v. Hampton, 3 Wheat. Rep. 200.

VOL. VI.

is

114

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1821.
Hopkins

V.
Le.

in a Court of cofamon law, and a decree of a Court
equity. They both stand on the same footing, and
may be offered in evidence under the same limitations,
and it would be difficult to assign a reason why

Sof

it should be otherwise. Thg rule has found its way
into every system of jurisprudence, not only from its
obvious fitness and propriety, but because without
it, an end could never be put to litigation. It is,
therefore not confined in England or in this country
to judgments of the same Court, or to the decisions
of Courts of concurrent jurisdiction, but extends to
matters litigated before competent tribunals in foreign
countries. It applies to sentences of Courts of Admiralty-to ecclesiastical tribunals-and, in short,
to every Court which has proper cognizance of the
subject matte , so far as they profess to decide the
particular m, tter in dispute. Under this rule, the
decree in this case was proper evidence, if it decided,
or professed to decide, the same question which was
made on the trial at law. For to points,which came
only collaterally under consideration, or were only
incidentally under cognizance, or could only be inferred by arguing from the decree, it is admitted that
the rule does not apply. On a reference to the proceedings at law, and in Chancery, in the case now
before us, the Court is satisfied that the questio4t
which arose on the trial of the action of covenant,
was precisely the same, if not exclusively so,, (although that was not necessary,) as the one which
had already been directly decided by the CoUrt of
Chancery. The bill, which was :filed by the present plaintiff in error, states, that on the 23d of Jana-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1821.
1107,
which is the date of the agreement on
which- the action at law is brought, Hopkins pur- Hop
v.
chased of Lee the estate of Hill and Dale, for which
Lee.
military
in
#10,000
is,
he wasto pay #18,000-that
lands at settled prices, and the remainder in bonds)
payable in April, 1809. That Lee, in pursuance of
this agreement, selected certain military lands in thebill mentioned. That at the time of the purchase of
Hill and Dale, it was mortgaged to Rawleigh Colston
for a large sum, which Lee had promised to discharge,
but that he had failed so to do, in consequence of
which, Hopkins had paid the mortgage himself.
The complainant then claims a large sum from Lee
for having removed this incumbrance, and prays that
the defendant may be decreed to pay it, or in default thereof, that the complainant may be authorisod, by a decree of the Court, to sell the military
lands, which he considered as a pledge in his hands,
and out of the proceeds to pay himself. Not a single demand is stated in the bill, except the one arising
out of the complainant's extinguishment of the incumbrance, which Lee.had taken upon himself to
remove.
Ox Lee's answer coming in, denying several of
the allegations of the bill, the cause is referred to a
master commissioner, who, after a long investigation,
in the presence of both parties, and the examination
of many witnesses, makes a report by which Hopkins is made a debtor of Lee in the sum of $427 77.
On inspection of this report, it will be seen that the
chief, if not the only controversy between -the .parties was, whether. Hill and Dale had been relieved

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.

"'I"
V.
Lee.

from its incumbrance to Colston, by funds furRished
by Lee to Hopkins for that purpose, and that unless
that fact had been found affirmatively, a repQrt cQil4

not have been made in Lee's favour. The Court, after referring to this report, and stating that it had not
been excepted to, proceeds to decree the paywent of
this balance by the complaiant to the defendant.
From this summary review of the proreedings 14
Chancery, the conclusion seems irnevitable,, that tho
chief, if not -sole matter in litigationfin that suit, was
whether Hill and Dalehad been freed of the incumbrance to Colston, by Lee or by Hopkins, and that
the report and subsequent decree proceeded on the
ground, atxd established the fact, that Lee had discharged it, which was also the only point put in issie by the first ple.a of the defendant in the actioi
of covenant. No xule of.evidence, therefore, is violated in saying that this decree was properly admitted by the Circuit Court. But if the.decree were
admissible, it is suppo.sed that the report of the master ought not to have been submitted- to the jury.
The Court entertains a different opinion. No reason has been assigned why a decision by a proper
and sworn officer of a Court of Chancery, in the presence and hearing of both parties, according to the
acknowledged practice and usage of the Court, on
the very matters in controversy, not excepted to by
either party, and confirmed by the Court, should not
be as satisfactory evidence of any fact found by it,
as the verdict of a jury, on which a judgment is afterwards rendered. The advantage which a verdict
may be supposed to possess over a report, from, its

OF THE UNITED STATES.

being the decision of twelve, instead.of the opinion
of a single man, is perhaps more than counternalan-

ced by the time which is allowed to a master for deliberation, and a more thorough investigation of the
matters in controversy. But a better and more satisfactory answer is, that it is the usual, known, and
approved practice of the Court to whose jurisdiction
the parties had submitted themselves. But if this
document be witheld from a jury, how are they or
the Court to arrive at the grounds of the decree, or
a knowledge of the points or matters which have
been decided in the cause P Without it, the decree
may be intelligible but the grounds on which it proceeds, or the facts which it means to decide, may be
liable to much uncertainty and conjecture. The report, therefore, as well as the decree, was proper
evidence, not only of the fact that such report and decree had been made, but of the matter which they
professed directly to decide. We are not now called
upon to say, whether, in those respects, they were
conclusive, as they do not appear to have been 6ffered with that view, but without meaning t odeny to
them such effect, we only say, which is all that the
present case requires, that they were competent and
proper, in the absence of other testimony, to establish
the fact of the removal of the incumbrance by the
defendant Lee, from the estate of Hill and Dale.
In the assessment of damages, the counsel for the
plaintiff in error, prayed the Court to instruct the jury, that they should take the price of the land, as
agreed upon by the parties in the articles of agreement upon which the suit was brought, for their go-

117
1821.
,,"v.

V.

Lee.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

118
1821.
'o-

*'

V.
Le.

Rule ofdaza-.

ges on a breach
of the Contmct
of sale b o
de.ver.
the

vernment. But the Court refused to give this instruction, and directed thejuryto take the price of the
lands, at the time they ought to have been conveyed,
as the measure of damages. To this instruction the

plaintiff in error excepted. The rule is settled in
this Court, that in an action by the vendee for a
t y vend

breach of contract on the part of the vendor, for not
delivering the article, the measure of damages is its
price at the time of the breach. The price being
settled by the contract, which is generally the case,
makes no difference, nor ought it to make any;
otherwise the vendor; if the article have risen in value, would always have it in his power to discharge
himself from his contract, and put the enhanced value in his own pocket. Nor can it make any difference in principle, whether the contract be for the sale
of real or personal property, if the lands, as is the
case here, have not been improved or built on. In both
cases, the vendee is entitled to have the thing agreed
for, at the contract price, and to sell it himself at
its increased value. If it be withheld, the vendor
ought to make good to him the difference. This is
not an action for eviction, nor is the Court now prescribing the proper rule of damages in such a case.a
Judgment affirmed.
a As to the damages recoverable upon an eviction of real
property, Vide Ante, Vol. I. p. 62.

Note c.

