OF THE UNITED STATES.

577
1821.

Clark
(LoCAL LAw.)

CLARxK

et al. v.

.
Graham.

GRAHAM.

A power. to convey lands, must possess the same requisites, and observe the same solemnities, as are necessary in a-deed directly conveying the lands.
A title to lands can only be acquired and lost according to the laws of
the State in which they are situate.
The laws of Ohio require all deeds of land to be executed in the presence of two witnesses,, and a deed executed in the presence of one
witness only is void.

A parol exchange of lands, or parol evidence, that aconveyance should
operate as an exchange, will not convey any estate or interest in
lands.

Mr. Justice TODD delivered the opinion of the
Court in this cause, which was subuiitted without
argument.
This is an action of ejectment brought in the Circuit Court for the District of Ohio. At the trial, the
plaintiff proved a title sufficient in law, yrrmafacze,
to maintain the action. The controversy turned altogether upon the title set up by the defendants.
That title was as follows: A letter of attorney,
purporting to be executed by John Graham, bearing
date the 23d of September, 1805, authorizing Nathaniel Massie to sell all his estate, &c. in all his
lands in Ohio. This power, was executed in the
presence of two witnesses in Richmond, in Virginia,
and was there acknowledged by Graham before a
notary public.
VOL. VI

73

Mars1V

678

CASES IN THE SUPAEME COURT

Nathaniel Massie, by. a deed dated the 7th day of
Y
June, 1810, and executed by him m Ohio, in his
Clark
r.
own right, as well as attorney to John Grahams
GL.m. conveyed to one Jacob Smith, under whom the do"fendants claimed the land: in controversy. This
deed was executed in the presence of one witness
only, and- was duly acknowledged and recorded in
the proper county in Ohio. The deed and letter of
attorney so executed and acknowledged, were offered in evidence by the defendants, and were rejected
by the Court, upon the ground, that they were not
sufficient to convey lands according to the laws ol
Ohio. The defendants alwo offered in evidefice a
deed from Jacob Smith and wife to the sail Graham,
dated the 7th of March, 1811, duly witnessed, acknowledged, and recorded, conveying.a certain tract
of land in Ohio, and offered farther to prove, that the
tract of land so conveyed was given'in exchange foi
and in consideration of the lands conveyed by the
deed first mentioned to Smith. This evidence, also,
was rejected by the Court. A bill of exceptio~ns was
taken to these proceedings by the defendants; and
the jury found a verdicbt for the plaintiff, upon which
a judgment was entered for the plaintiffT, and the
present writ of error is brought by the defendants to
revise tht judgment.
The principal question before this Court, is, whether the deed so executed by Massie was sufficient
to convey lands by the laws of Ohio. If not, it was
properly rejected; if otherwise, the judgment should
be reversed. Two objections have been.taken to the
i2Ls

OF THE UNITED STATES.

579

1821.
execution of this deed, first, that the power of attorney was not duly acknowledged, as every deed is
Clark
GV.
lands;
convey
to
order
in
Ohio
in
required io be
is void,
and if so, then the subsequent conveyance
for it is a general principle, that a power to convey
lands must possess the same requisites, and observe
the same solemnities, as are necessary in a deed directly conveying the lands. On this objection,
which is apparently well founded, it is unnecessary
to dwell, as another objection is fatal, that is, the
deed of Massie was executed in the presence of one
witness only, whereas the law of Ohio requires all
deeds for land to be executed in the presence of two
witnesses. It is perfectly clear, that no title to lands
can be acquired or passed, unless according to the
laws of the State in which they are situate. The
act of Ohio regulating the conveyance of lands,
passed on the 14th of February, 1805, provides,
" that all deeds for the conveyance of lands, tenements, and hereditaments, situate, lying, and being
within this State, shall be signed and sealed by the
grantor in the presence of two witnesses, who shall
subscribe the said deed or conveyance, attesting the
acknowledgment of the signing and sealing thereof;
and if executed within this State, shall be acknowledged by the party or parties, or proven by the subscribing witnesses) before a Judge of the Court of
Common Pleas, or a Justice of the Peace in any
county in this State." Although there are no negafive words in this clause, declaring all deeds for the
conveyance of lands executed in any other manner to
be void , yet this must bo necessarily inferred from the

580

CASES IfX 'THE SUPREME COURT

clause in the absence of all words indicating a dif* ferent legislative intent, and in point of fact such is
Preston's
Heirs
understood to be the uniform construction of the act
V.
Bowmar. in the Courts of Ohio. The deed, then, in this case,
not being executed according to the laws of the
State, the evidence was properly rejected by the
Circuit Court.
The remaining point, as to the rejection of the
evidence of the deed from Smith to Graham, and the
proof to show, that it was given in exchange for the
land in controversy, has not been much relied on n
this Court. It is, indeed, too plain for argument,
that if a deed imperfectly executed would not convey any estate or interest in the land, a parol exchange, or parol proof of an intention to convey the
same in excl ange, cannot be permitted to have any
such efffect.
Judgment affirmed, with costs.
1821.

(LoCAL LAw.)

PRESTON'S HEIRS v. BOWMAR.
It is a universal rule, that course and distance yield to natural and
ascertained objects.

But where these objects are wanting, and the course and distance
cannot be reconciled, there is no universal rule that obliges us to
prefes the one. to the other.
Cases may exist in which the one or the other may be preferred ac.
cording to the circumstances.
In a case of doubtful construction, the claim of the party in actual

possession ought to be maintained, especially where it has been up.
held by the decisions of th.e State tribunals.

