OCTOBER TERM, 1966.
Per Curiam.

385 U. S.

O'CONNOR v. OHIO.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE
SUPREME COURT OF OHIO.

No. 477.

Decided November 14, 1966.

Petitioner's failure at trial and during his first appeal in the state
courts to object to prosecutor's comment on his not testifying in
criminal trial which resulted in his conviction, review of which
was being sought in this Court when Griffin v. California, 380
U. S. 609, was decided, held not to foreclose petitioner's right to
attack as unconstitutional the practice of making such comment
following its invalidation in Griffin.
Certiorari granted; 6 Ohio St. 2d 169, 217 N. E. 2d 685, reversed.

James W. Cowell for petitioner.
Harry Friberg for respondent.
PER CURIAM.

This is the second time petitioner has come before this
Court with the claim that the prosecutor's comment upon
his failure to testify during his trial for larceny violated
the constitutional right to remain silent. In O'Connorv.
Ohio, 382 U. S. 286, we considered this contention when
we granted certiorari, vacated the conviction and remanded the case to the Supreme Court of Ohio for
further proceedings in light of our decision in Griffin v.
California, 380 U. S. 609. Following remand, the Ohio
court by a closely divided vote upheld petitioner's conviction solely on the ground that he failed to object to
the proscribed comment at his trial and during his first
appeal in the state courts. That failure was held to
preclude the Ohio appellate courts from considering the
claim that petitioner's federal constitutional rights had
been infringed.
The State does not contest the fact that the prosecutor's remarks violated the constitutional rule announced

O'CONNOR v. OHIO.
92

Per Curiam.

in Griffin. Moreover., it is clear the prospective application of that rule, announced in Tehan v. Shott, 382
U. S. 406, does not prevent petitioner from relying
on Griffin, since his conviction was not final when the
decision in Griffin was rendered. Indeed, in Tehan we
cited our remand of petitioner's case as evidence that
Griffin applied to all convictions which had not become
final on the date of the Griffin judgment. 382 U. S., at
409, n. 3. Thus, the only issue now before us is the
permissibility of invoking the Ohio procedural rule to
defeat petitioner's meritorious federal claim.
We hold that in these circumstances the failure to
object in the state courts cannot bar the petitioner from
asserting this federal right. Recognition of the States'
reliance on former decisions of this Court which Griffin
overruled was one of the principal grounds for the prospective application of the rule of that case. See Tehan
v. Shott, 382 U. S. 406, 417. Defendants can no more
be charged with anticipating the Griffin decision than
can the States. Petitioner had exhausted his appeals
in the Ohio courts and was seeking direct review here
when Griffin was handed down. Thus, his failure to
object to a practice which Ohio had long allowed cannot
strip him of his right to attack the practice following
its invalidation by this Court.
We therefore grant the petition for certiorari and reverse the judgment of the Supreme Court of Ohio.
It isso ordered.

