Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD

COMPANY V. FORT.

Syllabus.

record was offered in evidence as a bar. To show that it
was a valid personal judgment was to secure its admission, while to show it was not was to render its admission
doubtful.
So, in regard to the instruction, there could be no object
in misleading the court other than to have a judgm'ent rendered against his client that he might have the satisfaction
of reversinig it, a motive hardly to be imputed to counsel in
this court. It seems much more reasonable to infer that
counsel doubted whether the withdrawal of the plea did not
withdraw the appearance of defendint, and, therefore, did
not say anything on that point.
We do not think that under these circumstances we can
permit a judgment to stand, manifestly drroneous, where
there is a complete bar found to it in the record, when the
effect would be to close to defendant entirely this defence,
while to reverse it would only leave the other party 'vhere he
would be had nothing been said.
He has not been injured by the statement of the opposing
counsel. Shall he profit by it to the extent of having an
erroneous judgment confirmed?
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

but without costs to either party in

this court, and a new trial granted in the Circuit Court.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. FORT.
F., a boy of tender years, had been engaged, by a company owning it, in i
machine shop, as a workman or helper under the superintendence of C.,

and required to obey his orders. After being employed for a few months
chiefly in receiving and putting away mouldings as they came from a
moulding-machine, the boy, by the order of C., a-cended a ladder to a
great height from the floor, among rapidly revolving and dangerous
,machinery, for the purpose of adjusting a belt by which a portion of the
machinery was moved, and while engaged in the endeavor to execute
the order had his arm torn from his body. The jury, by a special ver-

RAILROAD COMPANY V. FORT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
diet, found that the order was not within the scope of the boy's duty and
employment, but was within that of C.; that the order was not a reasonable one; that its execution was attended with hazard to life or limb,
and that a prudent man would not have ordered the boy to execute it.
Held, that the company was liable in damages for the injuries, and that
the rule that the master is not liable to one of his servants for injuries
resulting from the carelessness of another, when both are engaged in a
common service, although the injured person Was under the control and
direction of the servant who caused the injury,-whether a true rule or
not,-had no application to the case.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Nebraska.

Fort brought a suit in the court below to recover damages
for an injury to his son, aged sixteen years, resulting in the
loss of'an arm, while in the employment of the Union Pacific
Railroad Company. The boy was employed in the machine
shop of the comp.any as a workman or helper, under the
superintendence and control of one Collett, and had been
chiefly engaged in receiving and putting away mouldings as
they'came from a moulding machine. After the service had
been continued for a few months the boy, by the order of
Collett, ascended a ladder, resting on a shaft, to a great
height from the floor, among dangerous machinery, revolving at the rate of 175 to 200 revolutions per minute, for the
purpose of adjusting a belt by which a portion of the machinery was moved, and which had got-out of place. While
engaged in the endeavor to execute the order his arm was
caught in the'rapidly revolving machiner~y and tor- from
his body. The jury, by a special verdict, found that he had
been engaged to serve under Collett as a workman or helper,
and was required to obey his orders; that the order by Collett to .the boy (in carrying out which he lost his arm) was
not within the scope of his duty and epploymnent, but was
within that of Collett's; that the order Was not a reasonable
one; that its- execution was attended with hazard to life or
limb, and that a prudent man would not have ordered the
boy to execute it.
The circuit judge (DILLON, J.), in charging the jury, after
conceding, in accordance with requests of the railroad company, that it was a rule. settled, at-least by precedent, that

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. FORT.

Argument for the railroad company.

a master is not liable to one of his servants for injuries resulting from the carelessness of a fellow-servant, said:
"In deciding this case you should determine the nature of the
emplqyment on which the plaintiff engaged that his son should
serve. If you find that his contract of service or the duties
which he engaged to perform were such that it was within the
contract or within the scope of those duties that the son should
assist in the repair of the machinery in question, and that the
son when injured was in; the discharge of a duty or service
covered by the contract. of employment, then the company is
not liable for the negligence of Collett (if he was negligent) with
respect to ordering the son to ascend the ladder and bold the
belt away from the shaft. [But I draw this distinction; if the
work which the son was ordered by Collett to do, was not
within the contract of service, was not one of the duties whicxh
fell within the contract of employment, but wns outside of it,
then Collett, in ordering the service in question (if he was in
the scope and course of his duties and power at the time) must,
as to this act, be taken to represent the company (which is presumed to be constructively present); and if that act was wrongful'and negligent, as hereinafter defined, the company, his employer, would be liable for the damages caused by such negligent
and wrongful act; and the principle, that the master is not
liable for the neglect of a co-employd in the same service, has
no application, or no just application to such a case; for in such
a case they are not, in my judgment, in any proper sense ' ellow-servants in the same common service.']"
To the part of the instructions included in brackets, the
defendants excepted; and the jury having found for the
plaintiff, and judgment being entered accordingly, the case
was now here on the exception.
. 1r. C. P. Tames (a brief of Hr.A. ,T Poppleton being filed),

for the plaintiff in error:
The rule is, in the absence of statutory enactment, settled
both in England and in this country, that, with certain exceptions which it was not pretended applied to this case, the
master is not liable to his servant for injuries accruing to

RAILROAD ,COmPANY

v.

FORT.

[Sap. CL.

Argurment for the railroad company.

him by reason of the negligence of a fellow-servant engaged
in' a common employment.
The court, in instructing the jury, not denying the rule to
be settled as above stated, sought to -incorporate into itan
exception, which is believed to be without any pre~edent
whatever, and in conflict with certain estabJished principles
regulating the relation in question.
. If the service during which the accident happened was
without the scope of the boy's duty and employment, then
the boy, when directed by Collett, was at liberty to refuse -to
obey. Ifi obeying he was in the position of a mere volunteer; in the position of a bystander who should assist at the
request of the company's servant. Now a volunteer, assisting at the request of the master's servant, assumes the character of a fellow-servant, and the master is not liable for
injury arising from negligence of fellow-servants.* It makes
no difference that plaintiff's son was a minor, sixteen years
of age.It was error to instruct the jury that if the work which
the son was ordered by Collett to do, was not within the
contract of service, but was outside of it, then Collett, in
ordering the service in question (if he was within the scope
and course of his duties and powers at the time) must, as to
this act, be taken to rep resent the company (which is presumed to be constructively present).
Oollett was clothed with no discretion in hiring, discharging, or assigning to duty. He was a mere superintendent
of a particular kind of work and machinery, hired and assigned to his duty as the boy was. He could not, therefore,
in any sense, be said to represent the company as constructively present. The case of 1urphy v. Smithl decides the
question. The defendant there was the proprietor of a
match main factory. One Simlack was superintendent or
manager. Under-him was Debor, a workman who, in.Simlack's absence, managed the establishment. The -plaintiff,
Degg v. Midland Railway Co., 40 English Law and Equity Reports, 376..
King v. Boston and Worcester Railroad Co., 9 Cushing, 113.
$ 19 Common Bench, New Series, 861.

t

Oct. 1873.]

RAILI40AD COMPANY V. FORT.

-

Opinion of the court.

one Murphy, a boy of tender years, had been hired by'Simlack, and was set to stir a compound--liable to explosion
when not skilfully done-with a stick, and in the presence of
Debor, whose duty it was to mix the compound, which exploded.
The court submitted to the jury whether the accident was
caused by the negligence of Debor, and whether he Was at
the time acting as manager of the establishment. The jury
answered both questions in the affirmative. The court, in
its opinion, says, " that tfie accident was the result of Debor's
negligence, and that he is not shown to have filled any other
position in relation to the plaintiff than that of a fellowworkman."
Xessrs. J. I .Rediekl and Clinton Briggs, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opiniofi of the court.
It was 4ssumed on behalf of the plaintiff in error, on the
argument of this cause, that the niaster is not liable to one
of his servants for injuries, resulting from the carelessness
of another, when both are engaged in a common service,
although the injured person was under the control and direction of the servant who caused the injury. Whether this
proposition, as stated, be true or not, we do not propose to
consider, because, if true, it has no application to this case.
It is apparent, from the findings in the present suit, if the
rule of the master's exemption from liability for the negligent conduct of a coemploye in the same service be as broad
as is contended for by the plaintiff in error, that it does not
apply to such a case as this. This rule proceeds on the
theory that the employe, in entering the service of the principal, is peesumed to take upon himself the risks incident to
the undertaking, among which are to be counted the negligence of fellow servants in the same employment, and that
considerations of public policy require the enforcement of
the rule. But this presumption cannot arise where the
risk is not within the contract of service, and the servant
had no reason to believe he would-have to encounter it. If

RAILROAD COMPANY V. FORT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

it were otherwisd principals would be released from all obligations to make reparation to aiT employe in a subordinate
position for anyinjury caused by the wrongful conduct of
the person placed over him, whether they were fellowservants in the same common service or not. Such a doctrine would be subversive of all just ideas of the obligations
arisilig out Qf the contract of service, and withdraw all protection from the subordinate employ~s of railroad corporations. These corporations, instead of being required to
conduct their Iusiness so as not to endanger life, would, so
far as this class of persons were concerned, be relieed of all
pecuniary responsibility in case they tiled to do it. A doc-friae that lead,:to such results is unsupported by reason and
cannot receive our sanction.
The injury in this case did not occur while the boy was

doing what his father englged he should do. On the contrary, he was at the time employed in a service outside
the contract and wholly disconfiected with it. To work as
a helper dt a moulding machiue, or a common work-hand on
the floor of the shop, is a very different thing from ascending a ladder resting on a shaft, to adjust displaced inachinery, when the shaft was revolving at the rate of 175 to
200 revolutions per minute. The father had the right to
presume when he made the contract of service that the company would net expose his son to such a peril. Indeed, it
is n.ot possible to'conceive that the contract would have been
,made at all if the father had supposed that his son would
have been ordered to do so hazardous a thing. If the order
had been given to a person of mature years, who had not
engaged to do such work, although enjoined to obey the directions of his superior, it might with some plausibility be
.argued that he should have disobeyed it, as he must have
known that its execution was attended with danger. Or, at
any rate, if he chose to obey, that he took upon himself the
risks incident to the service. But this boy occupied a very
different position. How could he be expected to know the
peril of the undertaking? He was a mei'e youth, without
experience, -nd not familiar with machinery. Not being

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. FORT.
Opinion of the court.

able to judge fQr himself he had a right to rely on the judgment of Collett, and, doubtless, entered upon the execution
of the order without apprehension of danger. Be this as it
may, it was a wrongful act on the part of Oollett to order a
boy of his age and inexperience to do a thing which, in its
very nature, was perilous, and which any man of ordinary
sagacity would know to be so. Indeed, it is very difficult to
reconcile the conduct of Collett with that of a prudent man,
having proper regard to the responsibilities of his own position and the rights of*others. It is charitable to suppose
that he did not appreciate the danger and acted without due
deliberation and caution. For the consequences of this
hasty action the company are liable, either upon the maxim
of respoudeat superior, or upon the obligations arising out
of the contract of service. The order of Oollett was their
order. They cannot escape responsibility on the plea that
be should not have given it. Having intrusted to him the
care and management of the machinery, and in so doing
made it his rightful duty to adjust it when displaced, and
having placed the boy under him with directions to obey
him, they must pay the penalty for the tortious act he committed in the course of the employment. If they are not
insurers of the lives and limbs of their employs, they do
impliedly engage that they will not expose them to the
hazard of losingtheir lives, or suffering great bodily harm,
when it is neither reasonable nor necessary to do so. The
very able judge who tried the case instructed the jury on
the point at issue in conformity with these yiews, and we
see no error in the record.
JUDGMXENT AFFIRMED.

Dissenting, Mr. Justice BRADLEY.
[See Packet Company v. McCue, supra, p. 608.]

