Oct. 1873.]

MOORE V. ]UNTINGTOX.
Syllabus.

tions that if it did, the plaintiff was entitled to recover; and
that if it did not, the indorser could not be held liable without proof of reasonable demand upon the maker, and notice.
Nothing more need be said respecting the charge given
to the jury. But as the case goes back for another trial, it
is'proper to notice an exception taken to the refusal of the
court to suppress the deposition of the plaintiff The deposition had been taken de bene esse, and before the trial the
defendant moved to suppress it. But when it was offered
at the trial, it was read without objection, and without exception. It may be that had it been objected to then, it
should not have been received. But after having permitted
it to be read at the trial without opposition, we think it cannot be objected now that the court received it.
JUDGMENT REVERSED) AND A NEW TRIAL ORDERED.

MOORE V. HUNTINGTON.
1. The court reverses a decree where the court below affrmed a report of a
master finding (on evidence not competent, and in the face of answers
by surviving partners responsive to a bill) that the interest of a complainant's intestate in a partnership was one-third, the answers averring
that it was but one-eighth.
2. 'here a person sues in chancery as administrator of a deceased partner,
to have an account of partnership concerns, alleging in h.is bill that he
is the sole heir of the deceased partner, the fact that he is not so does
not make the bill abate for want of necessary parties: since a decree in
his favor as administrator would not interfere with the rights of others
who might claim a distribution after the complainant received the
money decreed to him.
3. Where-a cross-bill and answers are filed in a case and the decree undertakes to dispose of the whole case, it should dispose of the issues raised
in them.
4. It is not error in an appellate State court giving judgment against an appellant to include in the judgment sureties in the appeal and writ of
error bond. By signing the bond they become voluntary parties to the
bond and subject themselves to the decree.
6. On a bill by the representatives of a deceased partner against.surviving
partners for an account, these last should, not be charged with the sum
which the partnership assets at the exact date of the deceased partner's
death were worth, but only with such sum as by the usn of reasonable
VOL. xvwr.

27

MOORE v. HUNTINGTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
care and diligence they could get for them in closing the partnership
business.
6. Nor should they be charged with the value of real estate of the Partnership the title to which is left by the decree charging them in the heirs
of the deceased partner.

APPEAL from the Supreme- Court of the Territory of New
Mexico.
Mrs. Huntington, widow by a former marriage of Nathan
Webb, and administratrix of his estate, brought this, a suit
in chancery, against W. H. Moore and W. C. Mitchell, as
surviving partners of a firm of which her husband, whose
sole heir by the laws of Texas she alleged herself to be, was a
member at the time,of his death. The object of the bill was
to obtain a settlement of the partnership transactions, and
she alleged that a large sum was due her on such settlement.
It admitted of no doubt that Moore and Mitchell, who
had been doing business at Fort Union, in New Mexico, as
post sutlers and general merchants, prior to 1859, in that
year took into their partnership the decedent, Webb, who
had previously been one of their clerks; and that in the
year 1863 they started a business in Southern New Mexico
and El Paso, Texas, which was placed under the especial
charge of Webb.
It was also agi'eed that in regard to this latter business
Moore, Mitchell, and Webb were equal partners, the interest
.of Webb being one-third.
In reference to the business at Fort Union the complain:ant alleged in her bill that her husband, on joining the part,nership, put into its capital stock $16,000, and was taken in
.as ai equal partner, and that written articles of agreement
,to that effect were signed by the parties. The defendants,
Moore and Mitchell, who were required to answer under
-oath, did so, and while admitting the -partnership, denied
that Webb put in any capital, and averred that he was taken
in for his business qualities. They denied that any articles
of agreement were made or signed in wtiting, and they denied that his interest was one-third, and alleged that it.was
;to be onee-ighth.

Oct. 1873.]

MOORE

v.

HUNTINGTON.

Statement of the case.

As the transactions of the Fort Union branch of the con-

cern were much the largest, and as nearly all the profits
claimed by the complainant were made here, the difference
was important.
The defendants denied -also that the complainant was sole
heir of their late partner, and asserted, contrariwise, that he
bad left, surviving him, his mother, who had an interest in
his estate, and was a proper and necessary party, without
whom the cause could not proceed.
The defendants filed a cross-bill against the complainant,
which she answered.
No written articles of partnership as to the Fort Union
business were produced or shown to have been made. One
Shoemaker, father of the complainant, and "very intimate with
Moore," testified in 1870 that in 1862 Moore had told him,
"as near as the witness could recollect," that "all the partners were jointly interested in the business of the firm. He
never stated that the interests of the members were equal;
neither did he ever state that they were not equal until a
year and a half after Webb's death; and I never, until that
time, heard anything to raise a doubt of Webb's equal interest." Houghlon, a brother-in-law of Webb,stated that he
"had frequently heard Webb say, and at various times and
places, that he.was a full and equal'partner in both concerns,
and in all the various branches and ventures of the firm at
Fort Union. On one occasion he referred to the equality
of their interests in the counting-room of the sutlers' fort."
"To the best of my recollection," said the witness, "W. H.
Moore was in the room. Ile took no-part in the conversation, and I am not aware whether he heard what was said
or not." For the rest, the evidence as to the extent of
*Webb's interest in the firm at Fort Union, rested chiefly on
the bill and answers.
The case being referred to a master, he held that the interest of Webb was one-third, and on this basis reported
597,596.19 due by the defendants; charging the defendants
in. such a way that, as his report seemed to indicate, they
were charged as to some items twice for the same thing;

420

MooRF, v. H-uNTINGT0N.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

charging them with property at the value which it had at the
date of the decedent's death, and charging them with real estate
the title to which was still in the decedent.
Sixteen exceptions to this report were filed by the defendants. Certain particulars of the report, and exceptions to
them respectively, which were taken, are stated further on,
in the opinion of. this court in passing on them. They are,
thererore, not more fully giveii here.
The Supreme Court of New Mexico, to which the case
was taken on appeal from the District Court of the Territory,
where it .originated, reduced, "for errors apparent on the
record"-though for what errors did not anywhere appear,
nor on account of which of the sixteen exceptions filed-the
sum'found by the' master to $72,920.75, and "in all other
respects" affirmed it, and for the amount of $72,920.75; including in its affirmance, of course, the fundamentil part
by which the master assumed that Webb's interest in the
Fort Union firm was one-third. In giving its decree of
affirmance the Supreme Court adjudged that the complainant (appellee in the case before it) should have judgment
against the securities " the bor.d for an appeal'to that court,
for the amount of the judgment, interest, and costs.* The
Thecompiled laws of New Mexico (page 290,

5) enact that-

"In ease of appeal in civil suits, if the judgment of the appellate court be against
the appellant, it shall-be rendered against him and his securities on the appeal bond."
This section of the act of the Territory of New Mexico was founded, according to the allegation of the appellant's counsel, on what is known as the
Kearney Code; an enactment made by General Kearney, September. 22d,
1846, four years prior to the organization of the Territory of New Mexico,
under the act of Congress of 9th September, 1850 (9 Stat. at Large, 446).
And when the act was passed, it was applicable, as the said counsel conceived, only to te courts of justices of the peace and probate courts existing
and doing business at the time as courts. They conceded, however, that in
"The Beal Case," then just decided by the Supreme Court of New Mexico,
it was held that"A statute authorizing judgment against the securities on nppeal bond, as well as
against the appellants in case of'aifrmance, is not unconstitutional."
"The correctness of this ruling," they added, "1where a statute is in existence so providing, it is not worth while to discuss as a general proposition."
The Reporter did not undersland whether the Supreme Court of New Moexiceo regarded that the statute was in existence or not.

Oct. 1873.]

MOORE V. HUNTINGTON.
Opinion of the court.

cross-bill was not in any manner referred to, and remained
undisposed of.
The defendants now appealed to this court, assigning very
numerous errors, and among themA disregard of the proofs in the matter of ebb's interest
in the Fort Union firm; the fundamental matter of the suit.
A want of necessary parties, iu the omission of the mother
as one.
Decreeing finally upon the complainant's bill and the respondents' answers,-without disposing at the same time of
the issues raised upon the cross-bill.
Making a decree against the sureties irt the appeal bond.
Double charges in the master's report.
Charges on wrong principles, as ex. gr. (a) of the estate at
its value at the date of the decedent's death; (b) of real
estate over whose title the surviving partners had no control.
Messrs. John S. Watts, TV. 31. Evarts, and J. W. NVoble, for
the appellants; Messrs. W. TV. McFarland and S. B. Elkins,
contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
We are of opinion that the ruling which decided the interest of Webb in the Fort Union branch of the concern to
have been one-third was erroneous. No witness ever saw
any articles of agreement. It is not contefided now that
any such were proved to have had an existence. No witness
was ever present at any conversation betweenthe partners
on that subject. One witness, a brother-in-law of Webb,
states that he heard Webb say he was an equal partner in
the business, which statement was made while Moore was
in the room where it was said, but he cannot say that Moore
heard it, or that it was said in his immediate presence.
Other declarations of the deced'ent are proved to the same
effect, but they are not competent evidence. The statements of Moore and Mitchell are explicit responses to allegations which they are called on to answer, and they are
unshaken by anything in the record. It must he held that

MOORE V, HUNTINGTON.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

the interest of Webb inthe Fort..Union branch of the business was only one-eighth.
This necessarily reverses the dgcree, but other points demand attention.
It is asserted that the suit cannot proceed because the
mother of decedent is noi made a.'party, as she is one of his
heirs-at-]aw. But this is not a suit for distribution, and
although the complainant does assert herself to be sole heir,
her suit may, nevertheless, be sustained as administratrix,
in which right she also complains. A decree rendered in
her favor in that capacity would not interfere with the rights
of others who might claim of her a distribution after she received the money. That objection is not, therefore, tenable.
A cross-bill was filed by defendants against complainants,
which was answered. No notice was taken of it in the.final
decree, which should have been done, though the court undoubtedly supposed it was disposinig of the whole case. On
the return of the case this may be corrected, and if on the
next hearing the plaintiffs in the cross-bill are entitled to
any relief, the pleadings are a sufficient foundation for a decree in their favor.
The master presented two schedules or separate statements of the two branches of the business. The"Texan and
Southern New Mexico venture he styles the firm of N.
Webb & Co., and the original partnership W. H. Moore &
Co. To this there seems to be no objection. Numerous
exceptions were taken to his report, which were overruled,
and a decree for $97,596.19 was rendered in favor of complainant. This sum was reduced on appeal to the Supreme
Court of the Territory by the sum of $24,675.44, and a final
decree rendered there for the remainder. But on what
ground this deduction was made, or to what exception it is
referable, does not appear..
The decree was rendered in the Supreme Court jointly
against the defendants and their sureties in the appeal bond,
and it is alleged for error that no such judgment could be
rendered against the latter. But there is no error in this.
It is a very common and useful thing to provide by statute

Oct. 1873.]

MOORE V. HUNTINGTON.
Opinion of the court.

that sureties in appeal and writ-of-error bonds shall be liable
to such judgment in-the appellate court as may be rendered
again'st their principals. This is founded on the proposition
that such sureties, by the act of signing the bond, become
voluntary parties to the suit and subject themselves thereby
to the decree of the court.
Other exceptions to the report of the master, of considerable value in amounts; seem to us to be well taken.
1. In the schedule which refers to the business of N. Webb
& Co. the assets are eharged-to defendants at $78,879.16 for
goods, wares, and merchandise, and $76,103.03 for. debts due
and owing to the firm.
Immediately after this.the defendants are charged in
items Nos. 8, 4, and 5 with cash received by W. H. Moore
of $10,258.75, $8166.70, and $2000.
It seems to us that these items ai'e for money received on
account of assets already charged, or for debts collected
already charged, and are, therefore, twice charged against
defendants.
2. So in the schedule of W. H.'Moore & Co., the goods on
hand at Fort Union July 2d, 1866, are charged to defendants
at $182,656.71 and debts due the firm at $322,958.77.
Looking to the exhibit in the answer of Moore, on which
this estimate is based, it is quite clear that in this latter
sum, the item of $101,330.95, due by Moore, Adams & Co.,
is for all or a part of the goods charged in the first item of
$182,000, purchased at the time that inventory was taken,
and counted afterwards as part of the assets of the old firm.
It is thus charged twice against defendants.
3. The defendants are credited in the schedule of N.
Webb & Co. with fifty per cent. of the debts due the firm,
after deducting what Webb and his wife owed that firm,
and in the other schedule they are credited with $100,000,
both for bad debts. This may or may not do justice, and it
may possibly be the only approximate mode of doing it.
But it goes.upon the ground of charging the defendahts ivith
everything at the date of the decedent's death at its value at
that time. Such is not the true rule. It was a legal right

424

MOORE V. HuNTINGTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of the defendants, as surviving partners, to close out the concern, collect and dispose of its choses in action, and its prop-

erty, pay what it owed, and then pay over to the plaintiff her
just share of what was left. They were not bound to become purchasers of the decedent's interest at a valuation.
But they wiere bound to use reasonable diligence and care in
closing out the business, and in taking care of the decedent's
interest. If they used such care and diligence they are only
liable for what was realized in their hands when it was done.
If they did not they are liable for what might have been
realized by the use of such care and diligence. In this latter
view it is not now possible to say with accuracy what the
state of the account should be, and it is the duty of the
master to ascertain this an'd make proper report on this
point as well as others.
4. Again, while the defendants are charged with the value
of certain real estate of the partnership, the title of it, which
is in the plaintiffi is left there by the decree.
In short, the basis of the account being entirely erroneous
in-assuming the interest of Webb at one-third instead of oneeighth in the partnership of W. H. Moore & Co., and considering the loose and unsatisfactory character of the whole
report, among which are doubtless other errors than those
above mentioned, it is utterly insufficient as a foundation
for any decree. Nor can we here undertake, with no other
report, to render one with which we would be satisfied.
It is, therefore, ordered and decreed that the decree of the
Supreme and District Courts be REVERSED; that the case be
remanded with directions to set aside the entire report of
the master; that a new master be appointed, with directions
to adjust the accounts on the basis of an interest of oneeighth in Webb in the Fort Union branch of the business,
and one-third in the other, and that such adjustment be
made in conformity with this opinion, so far as it can serve
for a guide, and that the final decree to be rendered in the
case shall be a full settlement of All the matters litigated in
the"bill, cross-bill, and answers.

