STITT V. HuIDEKOPERS.

-,[$up.
Or.
[

Syllabus.

gence in the-performance of that duty, then the company
remains liable forsuch ngligence, The, question whether
the company was guilty of negligence in, this, ase, which
caused ,the injury sustained by the plaintiff, was fairly left
to the jury. It was unnecessary to tell them,whether, in
the language oflaw writers, such negligence would be called
gross or ordinary.
The conclusions to which we have come areFirst. That a common carrier cannot lawfully stipulate
for exemption from responsibility when such exemption is
not just and reasonable in the eye of the law.
. Secondly.. That it is not just and reasonable in the eye of
the law for a, common carrier to stipulate for exemption
from responsibility for the negligence of himself or his servants.
Thirdly. That il~ese rules apply both to, carriers of goods
and carriers of passeugers for hire, and with special force to
the latter.
Fourthly. That a drover travelling on a pass, such as was
giyeh in this case, for the purpose of taking care of his stock
on the train, is a passenger for hire.
These conclusions decide the present case, and require a
judgment of affirmance. We purposely abstain from expressing any opinion as to what would have been the result
of our judgment had weconsidered the plaintiff a free passenger instead •of a passenger for hire.
JUDGMENT,

D.IRMED.

STITT V. HUIDEKOPERS.

1. It is a rule o evidence that, ordinarily, a witness who testifies to an
affirmative is entitled to credit in preference to one who testifies to a
negative, because the latter may have forgotten what actually occurred,
while it is impossible to remember what never existed.
2. An offer to sell at a fixed price, whether accompanied with an agency to
sell to others or not, may be revoked at any time prior to the acceptance of, the offer, unless there is an express agreement on good considera-

Oct. 1873.]

STITT V. 1TUIDEKOPERS.
Statement of the case.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

tion to accept within a limited time, or when other acts are done which
the person making the offer consents to be bound by.
An offer to take $40,000 in cash is not accepted so as to bind the party by
a contract which leaves the buyer at liberty to withdraw by forfeiting
a deposit of $10,000, or pay the remainder within sixty days.
Although a written agreement between persons not parties to the suit may,
as a general rule, be contradicted or explained by oral testimony, this
does not apply to an attempt to make good by parol evidence a contract
which the law requires to be made in writing to make it valid.
When one party gives notice to another to produce on trial a written instrument, and the party who so receives the notice produces and offers
to verify it by his oath, the other party cannot refuse to use that paper
and introduce a copy in the first instance, on the allegation that the first
is not genuine, although he might show wherein it was erroneous ordefective after it was once introduced.
It is not error for a court, leaving to the jury the credibility of the testimony and their belief of certain material facts, to instruct the jury thet
they must, if they so believe, find for one party, though this may be all
that is in contest.
Nor is it error for a court in its instructions to limit them to-the special
contract wvhich alone was considered by counsel on both sides, and when
no evidence of the value of services was given or instructions asked as
applicable to a common count found in the declaration.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Western District of
Pennsylvania; the case being thus:
In the latter part of August, 1864, at which time great
excitement prevailed in the region of Oil Creek, Northwestern Pennsylvania, and soune persons in New York and other
eastern cities, were largely speculating in lands there supposed to contain oil, and rapid sales at advancing prices were
making of such lands from day to, day, Alfred ]Iuidekoper
and Frederick W. Huidekoper, his nephew, both of Meadville, near that region, owning of long date, partially in their
own rights but more largely in a fiduciary capacity, as executors and trustees, about 1800 acres of such lands in the
immediate district, were called on by one Stitt, who had in
part formed and was still cultivating relations with persons
in New York and other cities operating in oil lands; and an
agreement was made betw6en him, and the said Huidekopers
that if he, Stitt, brought a purchaser to them for the land,
within thirty daystat a fixed price, he was to have a definite,
VOL.

XVM.

25

STITT V. HUIDEKOPERS.

Esup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

compensation. The time thus limited expired without a
sale.
On the 19th-22d of November a new agreement was entered into in regard to the same matter, by which it ivas
agreed that Stitt might-sell the land for not les§ than $40,000;
that on this sum being paid to the Huidekopers, he should
have out of it as a compensation $2500, and that if he could
sell the land for more than $40,000 he should retain the surplus for himself. With a view of enabling Stitt to sell and
convey the land with despatch and facility-his business
being chiefly with persons who were buying on speculation,
and who wished to re-sell soon at an advance-the Huidekopers made to him a deed, duly signed and acknowledged,
which they placed as an escrow, in the hands of Drake
Brothers, their bankers, in New York, to become a valid
deed when Stitt should pay $40,000 into the hands of the
said Drake Brothers, for the use of them the Huidekopers.
Whether there was any limitation of time within which
the sum of $40,000 was to be paid to enable Stitt to take
up the deed and entitle himself to the compensation, and
whether, if there was no limitation of time, there was any
.other agreement as to an indefinite extension, which would
,prevent the Huidekopers from recalling the escrow, or the
.authority to deliver it, so as to render nugatory pending
negotiations for a sale by Stitt to third p~rties, was a matter
in dispute.
'The escrow being, as already mentioned, in the hands of
Drake Brothers, and to be delivered to Stitt on the payment
of the $40,000, Stitt, on the 10th of January, 1865, entered
into a written contract with Backus & Morse, operators, in
New York, in 'oil lands, by which contract Stitt -agreed to
.sell the lands, or certain specified .portions, at $55 per acre, to
them. Backus & Morse;however, did not agree to buy, but
.agreed to decide on or before the 14th of January, 1865,
whether they would buy, and if so, how much. They agreed
that if they decided to buy, they would deposit with Drake
Brothers, on or before the said 14th, $10,000, which was to
,bepaid to Stitt as soon as the titles were examined and found

Oct. 1873.]

STITT

v.

H UIDEKOPERS.

Statement of the case.

perfect, and a deed from Stitt was to be deposited with
Drake Brothers, tb be held until the balance of the purchasemoney was paid or satisfactorily secured. The time of payment of the balance was not to exceed sixty days from the
payment over to the plaintiff of the $10,000. ' Of course if
Backus & Morse took the whole 1300 acres, the sum payable
would be $71,500; a large gain to Stitt.
On the 14th of January, 1865, Backus & Morse elected,
by parol, to take. all the lands, and made the deposit with
Drake Brothers of $10,000; their election, however, not
being according to the contract, but on condition that "if
1he balance of the purchase-money is not deposited by the time specified in the contract, the $10,000 is to be fofeited to Mr. Stitt;"
and their election in this form being indorsed by Drake
Brothers upon the contract.
On the same 14th of January Stitt wrote to the iuidekopers for an abstract of title. They sent one within two
or three days afterwards (apparently from its date, on the
16th), to Drake Brothers, which Stitt saw there, and of
which he had a copy made. In the letter of Stitt asking
for the abstract, Stitt mentioned the fact of a sale, but mentioned no particulars of it whatever, nor the names of the
purchasers.
On or about the 19th Stitt mentioned to three different
persons, as they testified, that lie had made a good sale of
the lands, but had transcended his authority; that he was
bound to sell strictly for cash, and that the Huidekopers
wvere under no obligations to ratify.
On the 24th of January, 1865-the lands, owing to the
discovery of a well called the United States well, having
greatly risen and apparently still rising in value, and Stitt
not having communicated to the Huidekopers the particulars of his contract with Backus & Morse, nor, so ihr as appeared, the Huidekopers knowing or suspecting that any
such'sale bad been made 's Stitt had effiected, the Huidekopers revoked the authority of Stitt. On the 27th of the
same month Stitt tendered the money ($40,000) to Drake
Brothers and demanded the deed, which, in compliance with

STITT

v.

HUIDEKOPERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

instructions sent to them on the 24th by the Huidekopers,
they refused to give up to him.
Hereupon Stitt brought this suit in the court below against
the. Huidekopers, upon an alleged joint contract by them
with him, to recover for services rendered to them, as a reat
estate broker. The narr. contained a special count, that the
defendants employed him to sell for them, or negotiate and
consummate a sale for them of a body of lands for the price
of 40,000, or more, agreeing to pay him $2500 out of the
purchase-money, in case he made a sale, and also agreeing
to allow him a1 he might sell the lands for more than
$40,000. A quantum meruit was added.
On the trial, one point in dispute was whether the new or
second bontract between Stitt and the Huidekopers-that
is to say, the contract of the 19th-22d of November-whether that contract had in it any limitation of time.
Stitt testified that he -asked to have a tinm fixed, during
which he might operate, to sell the lands, and that Alfred
Huidekoper declined to fix one; stating that it was better
for him that no time should be fixed.
On the other hand each of the Iluidekopers testified that
two papers were drawn up and signed b.y them both, one
fixing the time until December 1st, 1864, and the other agreeing to refund to Stitt $2500 if he paid the $40,000, and took
up the deed. They each further testified that both papers
were given to Stitt. A call was made on Stitt to produce
them.
Further on in the trial the plaintiff offered himself as a
witness, his testimony to be followed by that of Backus and
of Morse-all the parties to the contract-that when the
contract of January 10th, 1865, of Stitt with Backus &
Mforse was made, it was the intention and agreement of the
parties to provide in it that the purchase-money should be
paid as soon as the titles could I'easonably be examined, and
that it was a mutual mistake that th language of the contract was not made to express that understanding, and that
the omission in the contract of such words as were necessary, to clearly express that conclusion was a mutual mistake,.

Oct. 1873.1

STITT V.

.TUIDEKOPERS.

Statement of the case.

such as cught to be corrected. The court refused to let the
evidence go in; and this was ground of one exception.
A matter alleged by the plaintiff and denied by the defendants was, that the defendants had ratified Stitt's sale to
Backus & Morse; and to show a ratification the plaintiff
ofiered his copy of the abstract of title already spoken of, as
having been made by his direction from an admitted original
confessedly sent by the Hlnidekopers to Drake Brothers.
The defendants objected to the admission of the copy, and
offered to produce, under a notice which the plaintiff had
given, what they alleged to be the original, and thereupon
did produce the same. The plaintiff denied that the paper
produced was the original, and proposed to prove by himself that the paper was not the original.
To this offer the defendants objected that the original produced on notice.was the best and only evidence; that it was
not competent to the plaintiff to refuse it on his own allegation that it was not the original, and thereupon, and in its
presence, and upon the footing of his own denial to introduce secondary evidence of the paper.
"The defendants being in court and ready to be examined
to prove that the paper produced was the original, and the
plaintiff declining to examine them, the court sustained the
objecticn and rejected the copy." This, too, was matter of
exception."
It may be here stated that some of the testimony in the case left room
for argument by the defendants, if it should be necessary to make it, that
the plaintiff had not shown that Alfred Huidekoper, who was stationary at
Meadville, had ratified all that his nephew Frederick, who was a good deal
in New York, and attended to things there, had done, though no such defence was set up. But the action being on an alleged joint contract, where both
defendants were liable or neither was, it was necessary to show the knowledge and assent of Alfred. Apparently, to show this, Stitt, in giving an
account of the transaction generally, stated that he knew Frederick's handwriting, and that the abstract sent to Drake Brothers was not in it but in
Alfred's. Both the Huidekopers swore that it was not so, but was in Frederick's. The "original " produced by the Huidekopers being in Frederick's,
and not sustaining Stitt, he desired when he came to show the confirmation
by both parties tq have his copy, with hsis above-r~ientioned testimony, in evidence. As the Reporter understood the case, there was no difference alleged

390 '

STITT V. HUIDEKOPERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

There was no evidence offered of the value of the plaintiff's services, under the common count, nor any instructions
requested on it. On the contrary, the counsel of the defendants (without apparent objection on the other side) requested certain instructions "in view of the admittedfact that
the plaintiff'was not to be paid for either, or to receive any-thing at all unless he sold the lands and paid over the money
according to agreement."
Respecting the evidence the court instructed the jury very
fully; what follows being extracts from the charge:
"The evidence is for you-its credibility its consistency-its
weight-what it is, and what it proves. IC there is a conflictin
the testimony, you are to consider it, and when it is impossible
to reconcile different statements of witnesses, you are to determine conscientiously, not arbitrarily, which you will believe.
You are not to know the parties, or yield at all to what you may
have heard respecting the case outside of the jury box. The
questions for you are, what does the evidence prove4 and under
the instructions of the court, what is the law in regard to the
facts proven.
"In regard to the arrangement of November 19th-22d, there
is a discrepancy between the testimony of the plaintiff and that
of the defendants. Mr. Stitt testifies that heasked to have a
time fixed dufing -which he might-operate to sell the lands,
and that Mr. Alfred f:uidekoper declined, stating it wasbetter
for him no time should be fixed. On'the other hand, both the
defendants testify that two papers were drawn and signed by
them both, one fixing the time until December ]st, and the other
agreeing to refund $2500 if the plaintiff took up the deed.
These papers, they say, were delivered to the plaintiff. Of this
Alfred Rluidekoper is positive, and Frederick thinks they were
delivered. A call has been made for these papers, and they
have not been produced. Were any such papers given ? You,
should reconcile the testimony, if possible, without imputing falsehood
to either afflant. It is a rule of presumptions that ordinarilya witness who testifies to an affirmative is to be preferred to one who testibetween the two briefs or abstracts; the allegation being only that the one
produced was nbt the "original" that had been sent to Drake Brothers,
where Stitt had seen it, and which he had sworn was in Alfred's writing.

Oct. 1873.]

STITT

v.

HuIDEKOPERS.

Statement of the case.

fies to a negative. Why? It is because he who testifies to a negative
may have forgotten. It is possibleto forget a thing that did happen.
It is not possible to remember a thing that never existed......
"Was there an agreement to allow to Stitt a refusal of the lands
indefinitely? Is this probable, considering the fluctuating value
of lands in the oil region? Did Alfred Huidekoper agree to
give such a perpetual or indefinite refusal. This is a suit upon
an alleged joint contract, and both defendants must be liable, or
neither is. The evidence seems to show, though this is for
you," &c.
[The learned judge then reviewed the testimony.]
Respecting the law the court charged:
"If such papers [those which the Huidekopers bad testified
were given, one limiting the time for sale till 1st December,
1864] were given-if such was the contract, the plaintiff's right
to take up the deed on the payment of $40,000, and his agency
to sell the lands for the defendants expired on the 1st of December, 1864; and as his bargain was contingent, he had thereafter
no legal claim against the defendants for what he had done,
or expended, and no right to act as their agent farther, unless
there was a new contract, of which I shall have something to
say presently. But this is not a very important matter. If
you should find there was no such limitation, still the defendants
bad a legal right to withdraw their deed, and put an end to the
agency at any time they chose, without the plaintiff having any
legal right to complain.
"Notwithstanding the arrangement of Stitt with Backus &
Morse, the Huidekopers had a clear right to withdraw their
deed from Drake Brothers or to prol)ibit its. delivery, and refuse
to continue the plaintiff's agency. Further, the defendants
were executors, and trustees of the lands. It was their duty to
obtain the highest possible price for them. When the discovery
of the United States Well, or any other thing gave to the property an enhanced price in the market, it was their duty as well
as their right, unless they were restrained by some previous
contract, to withdraw any refusal they had given, that interfered with their power to make a sale most beneficial to their
cestui que trust.
"The revocation of the power to deliver the deed, if you be--

•892

STITT V. HUIDEROPERS.

[Sup. or.

Statement of the case.
lieve it was made, put an end to the plaintiff's right to take the
lands under the special arrangement with the defendants, and
in effect terminated his agency. The subsequent tenders, even
if made in good faith, and kept alive, were therefore of no effect;
and you need not trouble yourselves to consider them.
"Nor is there any evidence of ratification that would justify
you in finding that the defendants did ratify the bargain made
by the plaintiff with Backus & Morse. Knowledge is essential
to ratification. A man cannot he held to ratify that which he
does not know. What evidence is there that the defendants
were informed of the nature and stipulations of the contract
of January 10th, before they revoked the authority of Drake
Brothers, if any they ever bad, to deliver the deed ? It is not
pretended that they had any such information. On the 14th
of January, Stitt wrote them that he had sold the lands, and
that $10,000 were paid. He did not mention the terms of the
sale. He did not say it was no sale for cash, or that it was a
refusal given to the purchasers without liability on their part
to pay the whole purchase-money. He did not say what the
price was. He did not name the purchasers. Now if he made
the sale as agent of the defendant, his duty was plain. It was
to inform them at.once of all he had done. Instead of this, you
may be of the opinion that he concealed 'from them -what they
had a right to know. He gave them no copy of the contract,
and they were left uninformed in regard to its contents, until
after they concluded to revoke the plaintiff's authority, and resume the control of their deed. Under these circumstances...
the sending of an abstract of title to Drake Brothers ought not
to be treated as an assent to or ratification of an agreement of
which the defendants had no particular knowledge, and which it
was impossible for them to obtain; especially is this true when
he who attempts to show ratification is the person whose duty
it was to give the defendants full information, and to furnish
them with a copy of the contract he had made while claiming
to be acting a§ their agent.
will not overlook the evidence tbat the plaintiff ad"Yo
mitted he had transcended his authoriVy upon this subject.
*

*

*

*

"The great and controlling question is, whether the plaintiff
made such a sale, or rather whether the contract made by him
with Backus & Morse was such a sale or negotiation of a sale

Oct. 1873.]

STITT V. "EUIDEKOPERS.
Opinion of the court.

as the plaintiff, under his agency for the defendants, as set forth
in the declaration and proved here at the trial, had authority to
negotiate. If it was not-and I have instructed you that it was
not-the defendants had a legal right to refuse to accept it, and
to withdraw all authority they had given, and if you believe
that they did so, your verdict should be for the defendants."
The jury found accordingly, and judgment was entered
on the verdict. Stitt now brought the case here. There
were twenty-four assignments of error, and there was the
signature of the judge who tried the cause to as many exceptions in the record. There was also, besides these and
the pleadings, a confused mass of wliat vere called "judge's
notes," "depositions," &c., of which it was impossible to tell
whether they were intended to b parts of the bill of exceptions, or on what principle they were to be considered by
this court.
Mr. G. TW Guthrie, with whom were Mr. J. K. Kerr and
Mb'. . S. Golden, for the plainalffin error; Mr. W. -D. Davidge,
contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The argument, as is generally the case when such a transcript as the one in this case comes before us, has been
largely made up of controversies as to what the evidence
establishes, which was proper for the consideration of the
jnry but is out of place in a court of errors.
It will not be profitable or necessary to notice all the
alleged errors in this decision. Those alone which are decisive of the case will be considered. The remainder may
be treated as not well taken or not presented by the record.
One of the errors assigned and insisted on grows out of
the conflict in the testimony between the plaintiff and the
two defendants, all of whom were sworn as to two papers,
which the defendants aver were signed by them and delivered to the plaintiff at the time the escrow was signed, one
of which limited the time within which the plaintiff could
pay the money and take up the deed to the 1st of December,

STITT V. HUIDEKOPERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and the other agreed to give him $2500 out of the $40,000
so paid. No such papers were produced, and on this point
the testimony is conflicting. The plaintiff denies the receipt
of any such papers, and, both the defendants swear positively
to their delivery to plaintiff
On this subject the court charged the jury "that it is a
rule of presumptions that ordinarily a witness who testifies
to an affirmative is to be preferred to one who testifies to
a negative, because he who testifies to a negative may
have forgotten. It is possible to forget a thing that did
happen. It is not possib]e to remember a thing that never
existed."
We are of opinion that the charge was a sound exposition
of a recognized rule of evidence of frequent application, and
that the reason Qf the rule, as stilted in the charge, dispenses
with the need of further comment on it here..
Leaving to the jury the question of the existence of this
limitation of the contract, the court charged in various shapes
that, if the'e was such a limitation, after its expiration, or,
if there was none, then, at any time befbre the payment of
the money, the defendants had a right to withdraw the
escrow and terminate the plaintiff's agency without accountability to him.
And this view put forth by the court, which was the turning-point iathe case, is the error much isisted on here, and
assigned in various forms.
The pivoposition may be looked upon in two aspects: 1.
As regards a sale to plaintiff himself, on hi payment of the
$40,000. 2. As a:contrivinc.e to fa~ilitate his sale of the
lands as agent of defendants.. In reference to the first, we
are of opinift that as no pretenc6 is-set up'of any payment
or offer to-pay until s6me tinme in'January, 1865, long after
the time limited; if there was a limitation, the utmost that
can"De justy.claimed against'defendants is, that it was an
open offer of sate at a'givbn price, which bound them oily
-on its acceptance and cornupii nce with its terms; and that
until-thatwag d6iie.the oiffeK was within their control, and it
was entifely witlfin their power to withdrw it. It would

Oct. 1873.]

STITT

v.

HUIDEKOPERS.

Opinion of the court.

seem useless to argue such a proposition. ]But we will mention two considerations which are conclusive:
1. On any other hypothesis, there is a want of consideration in the contract, the defendants being bound for an indefinite period of time to accept the money whenever it
might suit the plaintiff to pay it, while he was not bound to
pay or abandon the right to pay at any period within any
fixed time. 2. That unless the party making such offer
could withdraw or terminate it at his pleasure, there would
be no means of relieving him from the danger of its acceptance at any length oftime after it was made, and under any
changes of circumstances which accompanied his offer. And
so are the authoritiei.
If we examine the proposition as one of agency, it is still
clearer that unless there was a contract binding the defendants to accept and ratify a sale by the plaintiff for the sum
of $40,000 or more, made at any time, they could, before
such sale was completed, withdraw and revoke the plaintiff's
agency without liability to him on accouut of the special
offer set up by him.
The charges of the court as to the law of this branch of
the case, were, therefore, correct.
It is, however, strenuously contended by counsel for the
plaintiff, that before the defendants revoked the agent's authority, by ordering Drake Brothers not to deliver the escrow to him, he had made a valid sale within the terms of
the offer, which was an acceptance of that offer, and binding
on the defendants.
As regards this branch of the case, it is to be remarked
that this is not a suit by the supposed purchasers, Backus &
Morse, either to enforce specifically that contract of purchase, or to recover damages for its breach. But it is a suit
by the agent who negotiated it to recover against the owners
of the laud what he would have been entitled to if the contract had been carried out. In this view, it is important to
remember that if the plaintiff had paid into the hands of
Drake Brothers the $40,000 at the time lie deposited with

STITT V. HUIDEKOPERS.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

them his written agreement with Backus & Morse, he would
have been entitled to a delivery of the escrow, and would
probably have received it, and thus prevented all controversy.
As he did not do this, it becomes necessary to inquire
what he did that could bind the defendants. The written
agreement between Stitt on the one part, and Backus &
Morse on the other, is in the record. It is an agreement,
in effect, that if Backus & Morse shall elect to buy all or any
part of the several tracts of land included in the conveyance
in escrow to Stitt, within four days, they may do so at the
price of $55 per acre, on depositin~g with Drake Brothers
the sum of $10,000; the remainder to be paid within sixty
days after the first deposit. On the last of these.f6ur days,
it appears by an indorsement made by Drake Brothers on
this contract, that Backus & Morse paid in the $10,000 and
elected to take the whole of the lands; the $10,000 to be
returned if the title was not found to be good, and forfeited
to Stitt if the balance of the purchase-money was not paid
within the time stipulated.
By the agreement as originally made and signed by Stitt,
Backus, and Morse, the latter are bound to nothing. They
had an option for four days of all or any part of the land at
$55 per acre, and they had sixty days'after their election was
made to pay the principal part of the purchase-money. By
their payment of the. $10,000, they placed themselves in
relation to Stitt in a position where they could forfeit the
$10,000 and thereby release themselves, or pay the balance
within sixty days and claim a conveyance of the land. Looking to these papers as the proper evidence of the contract
between Stitt, on the one part, and Backus & M-orse on the
other, it is clear that there was never any obligation on the
part of the latter to take the land and pay for it at a definite
price; that by forfeiting the $10,000 they could be released
from any further performance of that agreement.
This statement of the nature of that contract is sufficient
to show that it was no complianc'e with the outstandiig offer
of the defendants to Stitt.

00t. 1873.]

STITT V. ]HUIDEKOPERS°

397T

Opinion of the court.

They had never ofered to accept any such contingent or
optional contract of purchase, nor had they agreed to Accept
of any contract on time. Forty thousand dollars paid into
Drake & Brother's hands was the only valid acceptance of
their offer which could bind them.
The plaintiff offered to introduce some parol testimony to
show that the obligation of Backus & Morse was to take and
pay for the land as soon as the title could be examined.
This was excluded by the court, and its exclusion is assigned
for error. While it is certainly true that in some classes of
cases a contract between persons not parties to the suit may,
when introduced, be contradicted or varied by parol testimony, the principle can have no application in a case like
the present. This was a contract concerning real estate,
which the statute required to be in writing to make it valid.
And certainly the defendants were not bound to accept such
an incomplete contract as binding on them, while its ob-"
]igatory force as to the other party depended on parol evidence.
We are of opinion that no such contract of sale by Stitt
was proved as the defendants were bound to accept before
they revoked his agency.
An attempt was made to show that the contract with
Backus & Morse was ratified by the defendants, and an abstract of title furnished by them was relied on for this purpose. On motion of the plaintiff's counsel the defendants produced what they claimed to be the original of this abstract.
The plaintiff thereupon offered a copy of the abstract, which
he insisted was different from the one produced by the defendants and which he wished to introduce. This was overruled.
It is a little difficult to understand precisely how all this was
done, as the bill of exceptions states that the defendants
were ready to verify by their oath the genuineness of the
abstract which they produced. At all events it seems to us
that the court was right in.reftising to admit in the first instance what was conceded t6 be a copy, when that which was

CONWAY V. STANNARD.

S
[Sup.
Of;.

Syllabus.

at least prinu facie the original was in court to answer the
notice of the party desiring to use the copy. How far the
plaintiff could have been permitted to show a variance of
the defendants' paper from the genuine, after it was once
introduced, we need not inquire. But a copy could not be
introduced until what seemed to be the original had been
before the court and become the subject of inspection by
the jury.
It has been urged that the court invaded the province of
the jury by giving instructions which left them no alternative but to Iind for the defendants. It may be true that,
under the charge of the court, they could do nothing else.
But a careful examination of the whole charge, which is
before us, shows that the court left the credibility of the
witnesses, and all disputed facts, to the jury, and based its
instructions to find for the defendants on their belief of
propositions which required such a verdict. This objection
is largely based upon the argument that the jury might
have found for the plaintiff a reasonable compensation for
his services on the common count, but to this it is a sufficient
answer to say that no testimony was offered of the value of
the services rendered under this count, nor any instructions
asked of the court on that count, and that through the whole
trial plaintiff is ' sted on his special contract, and that alone,
as the ground of his recovery.
We see no error in'the record, and the judgment of the
Circuit Court is
AFFIRMED.

CONWAY v. STANNARD.
Under the fifteenth section 6f the.at of July 18th, 1866 (14 Stat. at Large,
180), providing for the sale of unclaimed perishable property, or prope6ry. the expense of keeping which'would reduce the proceeds of sale (as
ex. gr., hbrses), of less value than $500, used in smuggling goods into the
United States,-the collector need not give the twenty days allowed by
previous sections in thecdse of like propertyi non-perishable, for the

