Oct. 1873.]

LASERE V. ROCHEREAU.
Statement of the case in the opinion.

low must be

REVERSED, AND A MANDAMUS ISSUED

to the col-

lector, directing him to receive in payment of the relator's
taxes the bills offered by him.
BRADLEY, J.: I dissent from the opinion of the court
in this case. I agree that the legislature of South Carolina
meant the same thing by the expression "notes of speciepaying banks" and the expression "notes of banks payable
in specie," or an equivalent phrase. But, in my judgment,
it was meant by both expressions to indicate "notes of banks
actually paying specie."
The other questions in the case were not raised or considered and need not be adverted to.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE did not sit in this case.

LASERE V. ROHEREAU.
Judicial proceedings during the war of the rebellion, within lines of the
Federal army, by a private person on a mortgage, ending in a judgment
and sale of the mortgaged premises, against one who had been expelled
by the military authority of the United States into the so-called Confederacy, and who had no power or right to return to his home during
the rebellion, held null, and a judgment which refused to vacate them
reversed. Dean v. iVelson (10 Wallace, 172) affirmed.

to the Supreme Court of Louisiana, in which court
several cases were consolidated. They came from it here as
a single case.
ERROR

Mflessrs. J. A. & D. G. Campbell, for the plaintiff in error.
.No opposbig counsel.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE stated the facts of the case, and
delivered the opinion of the court.
In May, 1863, the plaintiff in error was, and had been for

LASERE V. ROCHEREAU.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

many years, a resident of the city of New Orleans. On
the 9th of that month-being "a registered enemy" of the
United States-a military order was issued that he should
"leave that parish for the so-called Confederacy before the
15t.h instant." The order was obeyed. He proceeded to
Mobile, and remained there until the capture of that-place
by the National forces in April, 1865. He thereupon returned immediately to New Orleans, and was not further
molested there by the military authorities. The subjugation
of the city of New Orleans by the forces of the United States
became complete on the 6th of May, 1863. It remained
thenceforward in their possession until the close of the insurrection. 'The absence of Lasere from New Orleans, like
his departure, was enforced and involuntary. He intended
to return, and, as soon as permitted to do so, did return and
resume his residence. In the fall of 1863, after his expulsion,
proceedings by executory process were instituted against
him upon two mortgages for the seizure and sale of the
mortgaged premises, consisting of a house and lot in New
Orleans. The first order bears date on the 23d of November.
On the 27th of that month the sheriff returned on the notice
of demand of payment, that, "after diligent search and inquiry," he "was informed" that Lasere had ' left the city
and State without leaving an agent to represent him." A
curator ad hoc was thereupon appointed, but it does not appear that he took any action. "After the legal delay had
expired" the sheriff proceeded to advertise and sell the
premises, and conveyed them to the purchaser. Lasere,
after his return from Mobile, instituted the original cases to
vacate those proceedings. They terminated in the adverse
judgment which is before us for review.
It is contrary to the plainest principles of reason and justice that any one should be condemned as to person or property without an opportunity to be heard.* Scant time was
allowed the plaintiff in error to prepare for his removal
* Mceigh v. United States, 11 Wallace, 267.

Oct. 1878.]

lEx PARTE ATOCHA.

Syllabus.

within the Confederate lines. During his absence he had
no legal right to appoint an agent or to transact any other
business in New Orleans.* This legal proposition has been
so often and so fully discussed by this court that it is ieedless to go over the same ground again.
If the law were otherwise, it is to be presumed that any
communication between MNobile and New Orleans was impracticable. Lasere doubtless knew not'ing'of the proceedings against him; and, if"he had had such knowledge,
he was powerless to do anything to protect his rights.
The point here involved was decided by this court in
ean v. Nelson.t It was there said: "The defendants in
the proceedings"-neaning the original proceedings-" the
appellees here, wei'e within the Confederate lines at the
time, and it Was unlawful for them to cross those lines.
Two of them bad been expelled the Union lines by military
authority, and were not permitted to return. The other,
Benjamin May, had never left the Confederate lines. A
notice directed to them and published in a newspapet1 was a
mere idle form." They could not lawfully see or obey it.
As to them, the proceedings were wholly void-and inopera-.
tive."
The case thus condemned is substantially the one before us.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and the case remanded to the court

whence it came, withi directions to proceed
IN CONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.

EX

PARTE ATOCHA.

1. Claims under treaty stipulations are excluded from the general jurisdiction of the Court of Claims conferred by the acts of Congress of Febru.
ary 24th, 185, and 'March 3d, 1863; and when jurisdiction over such
claims is conferred by special act, the authority of that court to hear
and determine them, and of this court to review its action, is limited
and controlled by the provisions of that act.
* Coppell v. Hall, 7 Wallace, 568.

t 10 Wallace.. 172.

