Dec. 1872.]

OULTON

V.

SAVINGS INSTITUTION.

109

Statement of the case.

preferred stock as a complete fulfilment of the.arrangement
between them and the company. Holders of preferred stock,
as there provided, are entitled to receive all the net earnings
of the company which may be divided pursuant to the indenture in each year up to $7 per share, and to share in any
surplus beyond $7 per share which may be divided upon the
common stock, which in substance and legal effect-is the
same regulation as that contained in the circular or plan,
and all the other writings upon the subject which were given
in evidence -tthe final hearing.*
Viewed in any reasonable light the court is of the opinion
that the decision of the Circuit Court is correct, and that
there is no error in the record.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

OULTON V. SAViNGS INSTITUTION.
1. Under the -10thsection of the internal revenue act of 1864, as amended
by the act of July 13th, 1866, taxing deposits in banks, an entry made
-ihthe depositor's pass-book of a deposit or payment, is " a certificate of
deposit,' or""check," or "1draft" within the meaning of the section.
2. Under.the proviso to that section, savings banks are not exempt from taxation if they have a capital stock, or if they do any other business than
receiving deposits to be lent or invested for the sole benefit of the person
making such deposits.
3. The fact that, by an agreement between the savings bank and the depositor, money deposited with the bank shall be reimbursed only out of the
first disposable funds that shall come into the hands of the bank after
demand, being a regulation adopted but for an emergency, and not such
as essentially impairs the just claim of a depositor, does not change the

case.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court for the District of California.
The German Savings and Loan Society, at San Franci'sco,
California, brouglt a suit in the court below against Oulton,
collector of internal revenue, to recover back a tax of 2'1th
* Bailey v.Hannibal and St. Joseph Railroad Co., Dillon, 176.

OULTON V. SAVINGS INSTITUTION.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

of 1 per cent. per month, for moneys deposited in the savings bank during the month of August, 1870.
The case was thus:
The 79th section of the act of June 30th, 1864,* as amended
by an act of July 13th, 1866,t enacts:
"That every incorporated or other bank, and every company
having a place of* business where credits are opened by the deposit... of money or currency subject to be paid.., upon draft,
check, or order) oR where money is advanced or loaned on'stocks,
bonds, bullion, bills of exchange or promissory notes.., shall be
regarded as a bank."
Thell0th section of the same act as amended in the same
way, enacts :
", That there shall be levied, collected, and paid a tax of .. th
of 1 per cent. each month upon the average amount of the deposits of money, subject to payment by check or draft, or represented by certificates of deposits or otherwise, whether payable
on demand or at some future day, with any person, bank, association, company, or corporation engaged in the business of
banking."
But this section contains a proviso, thus:
"Provided that the deposits in associations or companies,
known as provident institutions, savings banks, savings funds,
or savings institutions, having no capital stock, and doing no
other business than receiving deposits to be loaned or invested
for the sole benefit of the parties making such deposits, without profit
or compensation to the associationor company, shall be exempt from
tax on so much of their deposits as they have invested in securities of the United States, and on all deposits less than $500
made in the name of 'any one person."
With these epactments in force, Oulton, collector of internal revenue at San Francisco, laid the aforesaid tax of 2th
of ' per c6nt. on the loan and savings institution named.
The society was organized under a statute of California,
CCto provide.for the formation of corporations for accumula4 13 Star at Large, 251.

t'14 Id. 115.

$ Ib. 136.

Dec. 1872.]

OULTON V. SAVINGS INSTITUTION.

111

Statement of the case.

tions and investment of funds and savings," &c. It had a
capital stock of $100,000, of which $60,000 had been paid
in cash, the notes of the stockholders being given for the
balance.
The capital stock was a part of the security which the depositors had. After paying expenses, 5 per cent. of the net
profit of the bank was set aside for a reserve fund, and then
10 per cent. of the remainder set apart for the stockholders,
who did nlot otherwise share In the dividends. And the reserve fund and the interest thereon was lent out and disposed
of in the same manner as the deposits, and was kept in the
same manner as the capital stock, as security for the depositors.
The bank received deposits, lent the money so deposited,
and repaid it, together with the dividends arising from the
interest on loans, to depositors, in accordance with the terms,
conditions, and plans stated in a prospectus issued by the
bank to depositors in a pamphlet, and an agreement thereto
appended, which every depositor, upon making a deposit,
signed.
Among these terms and conditions were these:

,,All moneys now or hereafter deposited by me, shall be reimbursable only out of the first disposable funds that shall come
into the hands of the corporation, after the date of any demand
for the reimbursement thereof, and after payment of all sums
for the reimbursement of which demand shall have been made
prior to the date of my demand.
"The corporation will only engage to repay depositors when
there is money on hand which the board of directors may not
deem it necessary to reserve for other payments.
"When there is not money enough on hand to repay all the
deposits applied for, the directors shall make no new loans nor
investments until there is again sufficient money on hand to
meet the current applieations; and if the demand shall, in their
judgment, become excessive or general, they shall have power
to set aside all applications previously made which may not have
been satisfied, and to order an apportionment of all the funds,
as they may be got in, and at such short intervals as they may

OULTON V. SAVINGS

INSTITUTION.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

judge proper, among all the ordinary depositors, in proportion
to the amount of their deposits."
No money was received on deposit or held otherwise than
upon the terms and conditions thus set forth in the prospectus and agreement.
No accounts had ever been opened or moneys received
subject to payment on draft, check, or order. When a deposit was made a pass-book was given to the depositor, and
an entry of the deposit made in it and in the books of the bank.
When the money was drawn the depositor presented his
pass-book, received his money and signed a receipt for it in
the books of the bank, and an entry was made in the passbook. When the depositor could not appear in person to
receive his money, he sent an order with the pass-book, and
on the production of the pass-book and order the order was
taken as a i'eceipt and pasted in the receipt book in the place
of the receipt, and the entry made in the pass-book. No
such order was ever paid without a presentation of the passbook'with the order. In practice, although not obliged to
do so, the company always intended to keep sufficient money
on hand to meet all ordinary calls when made, and it always
paid upon call, so long as there was money to do so. There
had been one or two occasions when there was a heavy demand for money, and when it had not been able to meet on
call all oirdinar, demands. Loans were usually made on
real estate. This was the company's regular mode and
business; but when unable to put all the deposits out on
real estate, it lent them on other securities, such as mint
certificates, bonds of the United States, State bonds, Oakland,
San Francisco, and other bonds, San Francisco Gas Company
and Spring Valley Water Works Company's stocks. But
this was not the regular business of the company, and such
loans were but temporary. The company did not lend on
bills of exchange, or promissory notes without mortgages,
and did not pay out money on drafts- or checks. It issued
certificates for "term deposits" not transferable, but,,the
certificates wereissued subject to the foregoing agreement.
The certificae when made out was cut from a correspond-

Dec. 1872.]

OULTON

V.

SAVINGS INSTITUTION.

118

Argument for the collector.

ing stump, and before delivery the party receiving it signed
the receipt upon the stump, showing that it was received
subject to the conditions of the said agreement upon which
deposits were received.
As conclusions of law, the court found:
1st. That the company received no deposits of money subject to payment by check or draft, or represented by certificates of deposits, or otherwise, payable on demand, or at
some future day, within the meaning of the revenue acts of
the United States.
2d. That the moneys deposited with it were not subject
to the tax assessed thereon and collected by the defendant.
3d. That the plaintiff was entitled to recover.
Judgment being entered accordingly in favor of the company, the collector brought the case here.
Mr. G. H. Williamas, Attorney-General, and Mr. C. HT Hill,
Assistant Attorney-General, for the 19laintiff in error:
1. As this bank bad a capital stock of $100,000, it does
not fall within the proviso of the act of July 18th, 1866, exempting certain savings banks from taxation. In the Bank
for Savings v. The Collector* (a case which, though on a former
statute, covers the principle of the present one), this court
held that, independently of sope proviso exempting it, a
savings bank, though without any capital and without shareholders or corporators, interested in it or entitled to participate in its profits, was liable to taxation as "a bank." A
forliori, a savings bank with a capital stock falls within the
rule; and the proviso by expressly excluding from the operation of the body of the section, savings banks with no capital
stock, shows that savings banks having a capital stock fall,
within it.
2. As the bank set aside nearly 10 per cent. of the net
profits for the stockholders, who furnished the capital, it did
other business than receiving deposits "to be loaned or invested for the sole benefit of the parties making such de* 3 Wallace, 495.
VOL. xvii.

8

OULTON V.

SAVINGS INSTITUTION.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the savings institution.

posits without profit or compensation to the association or
company." It was in fact carried on as much for the profit
and benefit of the stockholders as of the depositors. Indeed
if the company had large deposits and did much business,
it would have been carried on much.more so.
3. The deposits made in this bank were deposits "subject
to payment by check or draft, or represented by certificate
of deposit or otherwise," within the meaning of the statute.
The entry in the pass-book was a "certificate of deposit."
If not, the deposit was represented by it, otherwise than by
such certificate.
Messrs. J. R. J.ardoe and C. -E. Whitehead, contra:
1. The intention of Congress was to impose a tax upon
capital engaged in,what is commonly known as "banking."
No interest is paid by ordinary banks on moneys deposited
with them. All the profits belong to the bank. Interest,
however, is paid in savings banks to their depositors. Ordinary banks make vast profits from their deposits; because,
unlike savings societies, they pay nothing for the use of
them. Therefore, the act to tax bank capital provides a tax
upon all such deposits as were represented in the hands of
the depositors by certain designated certificates, "or otherwise," meaning by any other means which could possibly
make the depositor a holder or user, or give him credit upon
ihe moneys which were deposited with the bank. Ordinary
banks derive great profits from them, and to such banks, the
only ones that do make great profits, the provision should
be confined.
2. This company was not a bank, nor engaged in the
business of banking within the meaning of the act. To
render a company liable as a bank it must be a corporation
engaged in the business. of banking, and holding deposits
subject to payment by check, draft, or otherwise.
This society received deposits which it ldnt out for the
benefit of the depositors, giving the deposiiors all the net
profits. These deposits were in nowise payable to the depositors by the bank, except when the loan'should be paid

Dec. 1872.]

OULTON V.

SAVINGS INSTITUTION.

115

Argument for the savings institution.

in by the person to whom it might be lent. The bank had
neither circulation, checks, drafts, certificates of deposit, or
exchange. It was simply a trustee to invest. Such institutions have been decided not to be banks in legal language.*
The provisions of contracts between these saving institutious and their depositors have been held to be strictly enforceable even to their smallest detail.t
It is clear, therefore, from the provisions of these contracts that no depositor could ever maintain an action for
debt or in assumpsit upon these contracts; nor has he any
money with either of these banks which is ex necessitate payable at any time eifher on check, draft or order, or is represented by certificate of deposit, or otherwise.
These banks, therefore, occupy an anomalous position,
and one clearly not contemplated by the revenue act. In
them the depositors receive the profits and bear the risks of
the business, and in so doing occupy a position different
from that held by any other class of persons known to the
law. If A. deposit with a bank of California, his claim is
good whether .the bank wins or loses by its management of
his funds; but if he deposits with a company like this one,
he has no claim for recovery if the company shall- lose its
money by untoward circumstances, national bankruptcy, or
any cause that may produce 4 fall in commercial values.
Thus the Ban/k of Savings v. Collector, cited by opposing
counsel, is not in point. The plaintiff in that case,t could be
called on to make payments on four stated days in the year,
and therefore four times in each year an action at law would
lie against it; it therefore held money payable at some future
time, and its funds were repayable on draft. The case was
put by the court on the very point of obligation of ripayrnent.ยง
Our banks, as ive have seen, hold no funds payable by draft,
or otherwise, and none of which it can absolutely-be predicated that they will ever be repaid.
* State of Louisiana v. The Louisiana Savings Co.. 12 Louisiana Annual,
572.
- Wall v. Provident Institution for Savings, 3 Allen, 96; S. C., 6 Allen,
821; "Warhusv. Bowery Savings Bank, 5 Duer, 67; S. C., 21 New York, 546.
See page 512.
$ See page 497.

OULTON V. SAVINGS

INSTITUTION.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Again; it would seem plain that the general enactment
in section 110 does not impose a tax upon this society. Reliance ,has to be had, on the proviso in the same section.
But when you resort to the proviso you can impose the tax
only by implication. *Now you cannot lawfully so impose a
tax. A proviso does not enlarge the powers of a statute,*
and any man who will bring an action for a penalty under
an act of Parliament must show that he is entitled thereto
under the enactory clauses.t If a statute imposed a tax on
all dwelling-houses and stores, and if a proviso exempted all
manufactories where steam was used, this would not make
manufactories where steam was not used liable, nor indeed
make anything liable except what the statute declared should
be liable.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Associations engaged in moneyed transactions, whether
incorporated or not, having a place of business where credits
are opened by the deposit or collection of money or currency;
subject to -be paid or remitted upon draft, checl, or. order;
ov'where money is advanced or loaned on stocks, bonds,
bullion, bills of exchange, or promissory notes; or where
stock, bonds, bullion, bill8f exchange, or promissory notes
are received for discount or for sale, -are regarded as banks,
subject to taxation, under the internal revenue laws which
were in operation when the taxes in controversy in the
present suit were assessed and collected ; but the same section hich created the' liability and authorized the assessment of the taxes, also provided that savings banks, having
no capital stock and doing no other business than receiving deposits to, be loaned 'or invested for the- sole benefit
of the parties mking such deposits, with0ut profit or compensation to the association or company, shall be exempt
from tax on so much of their deposits as they have invested
in securities of the 'United States, and on all deposits less
on Statutes, 515; Sedgwick on Statutory Law, 62.
t Spieres v. Parker, 1 Term, 145; 1 Kent, 463.
*Dwarris

Dec. 1872.] OULTON

117

V. SAVINGS INSTITUTION.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

than five hundred dollars made in the name of any one
person.*
Such taxes as are authorized by that act, to the amount of
52697.84, were assessed against the plaintiffs by-the assessor
of the district, and the record shows that they paid the same
under protest to the collector of the same district, and that
they instituted the present suit in the State court to recover
back the -mount, which was duly removed, on motion of
the defendant, into the Circuit Court. Due appeal, it appears, was taken by the plaintiff from the decision of the
assessor levying the tax to the commissioner, and the commissioner affirmed the action of the assessor and decided
that the tax was legally assessed.t Service was made, and
the defendant appeared and filed an answer, which amounted
to the general issue, and prayed-to be dismissed with ju3gement against the plaintiffs for his costs, which is a motion
in the nature of a demurrer.

Hearing was had before Mr.

Justice Field, and he denied the application, holding that
the plaintiffs, if they proved all of the allegations of their
complaint, would be entitled to recover. Leave was subsequently granted to the defendant by the circuit judge to
amend his answer, and he accordingly filed the amended
answer which is exhibited in the record. Evidence was
taken, and the parties, having waived a jury, submitted the
case, law and fact, to the detdrmination of the court, and
the court rendered judgment in favor of the plaintiffs for

the whole amount claimed in the declaration, and the defendant sued oat the present writ of error.
Three errors are assigned by the present plaintiff, in substance and effect as follows. (1.) That the bank is not within
the proviso exempting certain savings banks from such taxation, as the bank had a capital stock of $100,000, as stated
in the fiuding of the Circuit Court. (2.) Because the bank
did other business than receiving the deposits to be loaned
or invested for the sole benefit of the depositors, without
compensation to the association or company. (3.) Because
* 14 Star. at Large, 115 ; Ib. 137.

t Ib. 152.

OULTON V.

SAVINGS INSTITUTION.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the deposits made in the bank are deposits subject to payment by check or draft, or represented in a way to bring
the bank within the operation of the body of the section irposing the tax.*
Unrestrained by the proviso, it is quite clear that the bank
would fall within the body of the Section and be subject to
the tax which the section levies, as the managers of the institution have a place of business -where credits are opened
by deposit, or collection of money or currency, subject to be
paid or remitted by check or draft, or represented by certificates of deposit. Attempt is made to controvert the
proposition that the money deposited is represented by certificates of deposit, or that it is subject to check or draft, but
it is quite clear that the pass-book furnished to the depositor
performs the same office as the certificate, check, or draft, as
between the person making the deposit and the bank, showing to the entire satisfaction of the court that the evidence
brings the bank within the material words of the sction,
and that the framers of the hct intended to recognize the
well-known fact that there are banks of depositwithdut authority to make discounts, or to issue a circulating medium.
Banks in the commercial sense are of three kihlds, to wit:
1, of deposit; 2, of discount; 8, of circulation. Strictly
speaking the term bank implies a place for the deposit of
money, as that is the most obvious pfirpose of such an institution. Originally the business of banking consisted only
in receiving deposits, such as bullion, plate, and the like, for
safe-keeping until the depositor should see fit to draw it out
for use, but the business, in the progress of events, was extended, and bankers assumed to discount-bills and notes and
to loan money upon mortgage, pawn, or other security, and
at a still later period to issue notes of their own intended as
a circulating currency and a medium of exchange instead of
gold and silver. Modern bankers frequently exercise any
two or even all three of those functions, but it is still true
that an institution prohibited from exercising any more than
14 Stat. at Large, 136.

Dec. 1872.1

OULTON

V.

SAVINGS

INSTITUTIOX.

119

Opinion of the court.

one of those functions is a bank in the strictest commercial
sense, and unless such a bank is brought within the proviso
under consideration, is equally subject to taxation as if authorized to make discounts and issue circulation as well as
to receive deposits.*
Tested by these considerations it is clear that the judgment must be reversed unless it appears that the banik is
within the proviso to the section which imposes the tax, and
such was the decision of this court in a case involving the
same question, though it arose under the prior act of Congress levying internal revenue duties.
Two propositions were decided in that case, which are directly applicable to the case before the court, and the court
is of the opinion that the same principles should be applied
in the present case. They are as follows:
1. That savings banks which receive deposits and lend
the same for the benefit of their depositors, if the bank is
under obligations to repay the amount when demanded,
agreeably to their by-laws and charter, whether upon check,
draft, or certificate of deposit, are engaged in the business
of banking within the meaning of the body of the section
imposing the tax, though the bank has no capital stock and
does no other business of banking.
2. That savings banks, described in the proviso and thereby
exempted from taxation, becane subject to the duty imposed
by the body of the section on the repeal of the proviso,
though tl" y had no capital stock, and neither made discounts nor issued currency as circulation, nor transacted any
business of banking except to receive deposits, loan the
same for the benefit of the depositors, and repay the amount
as aforesaid in pursuance of their by-laws and charter.t
Apply those rules to the present case, and it is evident
Bank for Savings v. Collector, 3 Wallace, 510; Angell & Ames on Corporations (9th ed.), 55; Insurance Co. v. Ely, 2 Cowan, 678; McCulloch's
Commercial Dictionary, 73-146; Duncan v. SavinCs Institution, 10 Gill &
Johnson, 309; People v. Utica Insurance Co., 15 J'(hns,)n, 390; Grant on
Banking, 1-6, 381-614.
t Bank for Savings v. Collector, 3 Wallace, 512.

OULTON V. SAVINGS INSTITUTION.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

that the only inquiry open is whether the plaintiff bank is
exempted by the proviso from the taxation which the body
of the section imposes.
Savings banks are not exempt from such taxation, except
in certain cases, nor are any entirely exempted unless they
have invested the whole of their deposits in the securities
of the United States, if any of the deposits made in the name
of one person amounted to, or exceeded, $500. Deposits in
sums less than $500, and all such as are invested in the
public securities, if the bank falls within the category described in the proviso, are exempt from such taxation, but
every savings bank which does not fall within the category
described in the proviso, is subject to taxation the same as
any other bank coming within the purview of the act imposing the tax.
Such banks are not exempt from such taxation if they
have a capital stock, nor if they do any other business than
receiving deposits to be loaned or invested for the sole benefit of the person making such deposits. Both of those conditions are expressed in plain and unambiguous terms, and
the law-makers, as if to place the second beyond cavil, provided not only that the deposits should be loaned or invested for the sole benefit of the depositors, but added, "and
without profit or compensation to the association," showing beyoud controversy that Congress did not intend to
exempt any savings banks from such taxation, except such
as were devoted to charitable purposes and were managed
solely for the benefit of the indigent, or of persons of small
means.
Savings institutions undoubtedly exist which were estab-

lislied solely for charitable purposes, and many of them are
conducted in the spirit in which they were established, as a

means of benefiting the indigent, and it is plain that Congress intended to exempt all such from the taxation imposed
by the body of the section, but it is equally well known that
there is another large 'class of such institutions which are
doing an extensive and profitable business, and being the
depositories of vast sums of money are earning large profits,

Dec.

1872.]

OULTON V. SAVINGS INSTITUTION.
Opinion of the court.

which are as justly subject to taxation as the profits of any
other banking corporation in the country.
Power to lay and collect taxes is vested in Congress, and
Congress has enacted to the effect that all banks, except such
as fall within the category described in the proviso under
consideration, shall be subject to the tax imposed by the
body of the section, and it is clear that the plaintiff bank
does not come within either of the two conditions specified
in the proviso, both of which must concur in order that the
bank may claim to be exempt from the tax.
Argument to show that the bank does not come within
the first condition is certainly unnecessary, as it is admitted
that the bank has a capital stock of $100,000, of which $60,000
has been paid in cash, and that the bank holds the notes of
the shareholders for the resdue, the capital stock being a
part of the security held for the benefit of the depositors.
Five per cent. of the net profits of the bank is set aside as a
reserved fund, and ten per cent. of the remainder is set apart
for the stockholders who do not otherwise share in the dividends. It also appears that the reserved fund and the interest thereon is loaned and invested in the same manner as
the deposits, and like the capital stock is kept as a security
for the depositors; that the bank receives deposits, lends the
money deposited and repays it, together with the dividends
arising from interest, in accordance with the terms and conditions stated in a prospectus issued by the bank to the depositors and an agreement thereto appended, which are
exhibited in the record. Every depositor upon making a
deposit signs the agreement, and no money is received on
deposit or held otherwise than upon the terms and conditions set forth in the prospectus and agreement. Accounts
have never been opened nor moneys received subject to payment on draft, check, or order, nor has the bank ever issued
certificates of deposit, except such as were temporary, to
give time to a depositor to determine whether he will make
a term deposit or one subject to be drawn when wanted.
When a deposit is made a pass-book is given to the depositor
and an entry of the deposit is made in it and in the books of the

OULTON V. SAVINGS INSTITUTION.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

bank, and the money is drawn out by the depositor on presenting the pass-book or by a person holding his' order. Money
sufficient to meet all ordinary demands is always intended
to be kept on hand, and the bank always pays money upon
calls, and it appears that there has never been a time since
the bank was organized that it was not able to meet all ordinary demands. Generally the bank asks the depositor to
give a day or more notice on large amounts, but the managers have never found it necessary to make any rule upon
the subject. Loans are usually made on security of real
estate, but in some cases upon bullion or personal property,
nor are any loans made upon bills of exchange, promissory
notes, or other evidences of private indebtedness. Prompt
payments have always been made, but the agreement contains the stipulation that money deposited with the bank
shall be reimbursed only out of the first disposable funds
that shall come into the hands of the bank after demand;
and the defendants refer to that provision as distinguishing
the case from the prior decision of this court, but the court
is of the opinion that the proposition cannot be sustained,
as the regulation is evidently one adopted merely for an
emergency, and that it was never intended to control the
general dealings of the bank with its depositors. Money
deposited in such a bank by one of its customers becomes a
debt for which the bank is liable, and it cannot be admitted
that the managers could lawfully adopt any rule which should
postpone its payment iidefinitely.* They may, doubtless,
make any reasonable rule under that stipulation to. enable
them to raise means for such an extraorditiary occasion, but
they could not refuse payment altogether or provide for such
delay as would essentially impair the value of the just claim
of a depositor. Throughout, the amount of the deposit would
continue to be a debt due to the depositor, demandable of
the bank on presenting the pass-book, under such reasonable
regulations as the bank or its managers may adopt.
* Thompson v. Riggs, 5 Wallace, 678; Marine Bank v. Fiulton Bank, 2
Id. 252.

Dec. 1872.]

GODDARD

v.

FOSTER.

Syllabus.

Prior regulations had been made in the reported case containing our fdrmer decision which gave the depositor the
right to make such demand at four stated periods in the
year, but in the case before the court no regulation upon the
subject has been adopted other than what appears in the written agreement, which has never been enforced. Whether it
ever will be or not is a matter which cannot be kniown, nor
is such an inquiry of any importance in the present case, as
the court is of the opinion that the stipulation, inasmuch as
it has never become operative, cannot avail the plaintifs in
this controversy.
Beyond all question the bank has capital stock, and inasmuch as 10 per cent. of it is set apart for the stockholders,
it is not correct to say that the business which the bank does
in receiving deposits-and loaning and investing the same is
done without compensation to the dssociation.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions it is clear that
the bank does not fall within the category described in the
proviso, and that the tax was legally assessed and collected.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

tions to issue a

and the cause remanded with direc-

NEW VENIRE.

GODDARD V. FOSTER.
1. A., at Valparaiso, was the agent, under an agreement of May 7th, 1849,
of B., at Boston, who was sending him adventures and shipments of
goods, he selling the goods and investing the proceeds in other merchandise consigned to B., who sold the return cargoes; keeping an account
of the profit and loss. A. was to have one-quarter of the net profits of
B.'s business, that he, A., "9conducted to completion," but was at liberty to withdraw from the arrangement at any time, "1by giving B. so
much notice that any voyage he, B., may have commenced previous to
receipt of such advice, shall receive the full benefit of all A.'s service to
its final accomplishment."
On the 22d of February, 1850, A. wrote to B. that he had resolved to join
a Valparaiso house, which he named, but added: "I will manage your
business as usual until 31st December, which will afford you ample time

