MARIN V. LALLEY.

.[sup.

Ot.

Statement of the case.

how more than nominal value could'in any event be claimed.
But beyond this, the United States, on the 13th of April,
1857, transferred and assigned to Eldredge all their right,
title,-and interest in and to the lease, and autliorized him to
sue for and recover the rents reserved to the United States
as fully as they could do. It was added, "it being distinctly
understood that it is the object and purpose of this agreement to put the said Eldredge in the place and stead of the
United States, -so far as concerns the rights of the United
States under the lease aforesaid." It was by'virtue of the
ownership of the lease acquired under this assignment that
Eldredge took proceedings in the Qalifornia courts, which
resulted in the eviction and dispossession of Hickey from
the premises described" in. the lease. This assignment, in
the terms stated, carried all the interest in the rents already
accrued as well as rents thereafter to accrue. It was broad
and comprehensive, carrying every interest in or connected
with or arising out of the lease. There was no claim or deeuand against Hickey existing in the United States under
this lease, and consequently there was no counter-claim to
be interposed against his demand for storage allowed by the
judgment appealed from. The decision of the Court of
Claims was right and must be
AFFIRMED.

MARIN V. LALLEY.
1. The order of seizure and sale called "executory process," made in Louisiana-when the mortgage "imports a confession of judgment," is in substance a decree of foreclosure and sale, and therefore a "final decree;"
especidlly when made after objections have been made and heard.
2. When a proceeding below is in- its essential nature a foreclosure of a
mortgage in chancery, an appeal is the only proper mode of bringing it
here.

ON motion to dismiss an a peal from the Circuit Court
for the'District-of Louisiana; the case being thus:
In Louisiana a mortgage creditor may apply to a judge at

Dec. 1872.]

MAIN V. LALLEY.
D2

Statement of the case.

chambers, or in court, upon non-payment of the mortgage
debt, and obtain from him an order of seizure and sale,
when the mortgage imports a confession of judgment.. It is
said to import such confession when the mortgage has been
"passed before a notary public in the presence of two witnesses-and the debtor has declared or acknowledged the
debt for which the mortgage is given."* The order of
seizure and sale, called executory process, is said to be
issued as upon a judgment by confession.
The Code'of P ractice requires that three days' notice be
given to the debtor ;t and the judge is required to examine
and "decide whether the instrument unites all the requisires of the law necessary to authorize this summary proceeding."$
In this state of law Matin and others having passed to
Lalley their mortgage, executed in the manner mentioned,
Lalley, on the 28th of March, 1872, filed his petition in the
Circuit Court of the United States, praying for executory
process on it. Upon this petition an order was made thus:
" ORDER.

"Let executory process issue as prayed for, and according to
law.
W. B. WOODS,
"March 28th, 1872."

"Judge.

On the 4th of April, 1872, a petition for writ of error was
granted to operate as a supersedeas, and a writ of error,
bond and citation, were issued and served accordingly.
On the 11th of April the defendants filed their objection
to the order for executory process aud prayed that the same
be quashed.
On the 16th of April, "the cause coming on for hearing
on the opposition and answer of the defendants to the order for
• Code of Practice, art. 733, p. 304; Harrod v.Voorhies's Administratrix, 16 Louisiana, 256.
t Code of Practice, art. 735, p. 304.
$ Harrod v. Voorhies's Administratrix, 16 Louisiana, 256.

MARIN V. LALLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

executory process, herein granted on the 28th day of March,
1872, and on the application therein, to quash the writ of
seizure and sale "-it was ordered "that the writ of seizure
and sale be quashed as prematurely issued, that opposition
be dismissed, and that the order of 28th of March, 1872, be
now made final." Ali order was then entered, that the writ
of error originally filed, and which was set aside on the 16th
day of April, be now reinstated to operate as a supersedeas,
and that the' said order setting "aside the said writ be cancelled and annulled."
A rule was then taken by the petitioner, for reasons stated,
to set aside and annul the reinstatement of this writ of error
aud-the supersedeas.
On the 8th of May it'was ordered "that all decrees herein
made, subsequent to the last order granted by the presiding
jidge be vacated and rescinded, leaving to the parties their
remedy, if they.see fit to do'so, to file a"bill on the equity
side of the court and apply for an injunction upon good
cause shown."
Another opposition to the seizure and sale wdis filed on the
9th of May, and in this involved condition of the case it was
ordered, on the -10th of May, by the district judoe," that the
matter be submitted to his honor, the cirauitjudge."
On the 25th of May the circuit judge ordered '!that the
isaid opposition be dropped from the docket," and on the 3d
of June he ordered "that the objections and answers of the
defendants to the orderand -seizure bf sale be oyerruled."
On the 13th of June the defendants prayed for an appeal:
"from the order for executory process,. 28th of March, 1872,
and made final on.the 3d of 'June, to operate as a supersedeas upon giving bond for costs and all just damages for
delay only."
.Whereupon it was ordered by the district judge thf an
appeal.be granted- to operate as a supersedeas, and thatsaid
appeal be made returnable to4he Supreme Court on theifirs.t
Monday of Deeniber, 1872.."
A bond was approved and filed in thd penalty of $1000,
conditioned to pay such damages and -costs as. may accrue

Dec. 1872.]

MARIN V. LALLEY.
Opinion of the court.

in case it should be determined that "the said appeal was
wrongfully obtained."
The citation, dated the 14th June, summons the party to
appear pursuant to a motion *forappeal.
Mr. P. Phillips, in support of the motion to dismiss:
1st. The order for executory process is not a "final judgment" which can be reviewed by writ of error.
2d. The proceeding being ou the law side of the court an
appeal does not lie, even if there were a final judgment.
The case of Levy v. Fitzpatrick,* decided in 1841, and
which was a case coming from the same court as the present,
shows that a writ of error will not lie on an order for executory process.
ir. T. J..Durant,contra.
The CIIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
As the Code of Practice requires that three days' notice
be given to the debtor, and the judge is required to examine
and decide whether the instrument unites all the requisites
of the law necessary to authorize this summary proceeding,
his decision is a judgment or decree, and an appeal lies from
it; for it may be erroneously made on evidence not warranting the issuing of the executor process.t It is in substance
a decree of foreclosure and sale, which has repeatedly been
held to be a final decree.T
In the case before us it seems there was an appearance by
the defendants, who filed their objections, which were over-

ruled. Some further proceedings were had, and an appeal
was allowed by this court to operate as a supersedeas.
If there were any doubt as to the finality of the original
order, there can be none that it became final when the answer and objections were overruled. That order seems to
15 Peters, 167.
t Harrod v. Voorhies's Administratrix, 16 Louisiana, 256.
1$Ray v. Law, 3 Cranch, 180; Whiting v. Bank of the United States, 13
Peters, 15; Bronson v. Railroad Co., 2 Black, 524.
VOL. XVII.

2

MARIN v. LALLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

have been made contradictorily with the debtors. Their
opposition was overruled and their property decreed to be
seized and sold to pay their debts.* This case is quite distinguishable from that of Ley v. Fitzpatriek.t In that case
there was an order for'executory process upon a mortgage
where the debtors resided in different States, but having
signed and acknowledged the mortgage, were presumed,
according to the law of Louisiana, to be before the judge.
This court would not entertain an appeal from a judgment
rendered by the Circuit Court against any defendant who
had not been actually served with process and had entered
no applearance.
Incidentally, it is true, the court held the order not to be
-a final judgment according to the laws of Louisiana. But
this was 'aid of the original order, without the three days'
notice and without any act on the part of the debtors.
In the present ease the debtors appeared by.their opposition, which was overruled and the original order made final.
In such a.case, the opinion of the court shows that the writ
-of error would have been sustained, apart-from the objections growing out of the want of service of parties. We
have held, however, in the. case of Walker v. Dreville,T that
-no writ of error lies, where the proceeding below, in its
.essential nature, is-a foreclosure of a mortgage in chancery.
If this case had been brought here by writ of error, as the
case of Levy v. Fitzpatrick was,. it must have been dismissed.
The only proper mode of bringing it here was by appeal.
From what has been said it follows that the motion in
the present case must be

DENIED.

M
Martin, J., dissenting, in Grant v. Walden, 6 Louisiana, 6.5.
j- 15 Peters, 170.
$ 12 Wallace, 440.

