KNODE V. WILLIAMSON.-

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

as.a foreign vessel truly and wholly belonging to citizens of
the country of which the cargo was the growth or production. On the contrary, it is conceded by the pleadings that
her owners were American citizens. The Merritt, therefore, falls Within the prohibition of the act, and is liable to
forfeiture. She was neither a vessel of the United States
nor a fbreign vessel, wholly belonging to citizens of the
country of. Wdhich her cargo was the production.
But the claimant seeks the benefit of the proviso of the
act, viz.: "That this regulation shall not extend to the vessels of any foreign nation which has not adopted, and shall
not adopt,'a similar regulation." He.alleges that neither
the kingdom of Great Britain nor the province of Canada
has adopted similar regulations.
The case does not show that the Merritt has any of the
evidences of being aBritish ship. She produces no register,
or. certificate, or document of any kind to entitle her to
make that claim. The fact that she is foreign-built does not
pr6ve it. Proof even that she was built in Great Britain
would not estblish it. Pirates and rovers may issue from
the most peaceful and most friendty ports. The documents
a vessel carries furnish the only evidence of her nationality.*
Of these the M'erritt is entirely destitute, so far as the case
shows. ""lhere is-nothing, therefore, to bring her within the
terms of the proviso.
:DECREE AFFIRMED.

]KNODE V. WILLIAMSON.
1. Where a xietice to take depositions at a place specified informed the opposite party that they would be taken on a day named, and that the taking
would be adjourned ",from day to dy until completed," and, a portion
of the witnesses, havihg been examined (at'whose examination the opposite party with his counsel attended), the taking of the examination
of the others-was adjourned until the next day, when it was again adjourned until the next succeeding day, and so on, from day to day till
a partlcular day, when the taking of the testimony was completed in
*

See 1 Par.ons on Shipping and Admiralty, 26,.27.

'Oct: 1873.]

c1]
NODE V. WILLIAMSON.

:Particulars of the first case, and opinion of the court.
the absence of both the opposite party and his counsel. H~eZd, that an
exclusion of the deposition on the ground of want of sufficient notice
was error.
2. Where the purpose of testimony is to impeach a witness for want of
veracity, it is not improper to ask the person on the stand what is ihe
geheral "reputation" for truth of the witness sought to be impeached.
I-t is even more proper than to ask wlat is his general " character" -for
truth; though the question is sometimes asked in the latter form; the
word "character" being then used as synonymbus with "reputation."
3. A notice without date, given to a party that depositions will be taken
c on the 12th of September?' (no year mentioned), at the office of a person
named, "in the city of Guilford, State of .Aaine," is insufficient to let in
a deposition taken on the 12th of September, 1867, "in the town of
Guilford ;" it not appearing whether the town or township of Guilford
was the same as the city of Guilford; and the opposite party not having
attended at the taking of the depositions, and so waived the defect in
the notice.

ERROR to the District Court for the District of West Vir-

ginia.
Knode sued Williamson in the court below in trespass.
In the course of the trial the plaintiff offered in evidence
the deposition of J. A. Chapline, which the court excluded.
He also ofBered in eiidence the depositions of certain persons, Biddle, Jamieson, and others, which the court equally
excluded.
The defenidant, on the other hand, offered in evidence the
deposition of a certain Ellis, which the court admitted.
Verdict and judgment having gone for the defendant, the
plaintiff brought the case here on exceptions to the exclusion
ox the two first-mentioned depositions, and the admission of
the last-mentioned one.

M/.r. C. 1. B. Allison, for the plaintff in error; 31r. W. W.
Boyce, with whom was -Mr. C. ,7. Faulkner, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG stated the particular circumstances
under which the respective depositions that were the subject
of the court's action complained of were taken, and delivered the opinion of the court on each case.
We think the District Court erred in excluding the depo-

KNODE V. WILLIAMSON.[

[Sup. Ct.

Particulars of the second case, and opinion of the court.

sition of Chapline. It had been taken in the cause, in pursuance of notice that, together with the depositions of other
witnesses, it would be taken on the 11th day of September,
1869. The notice also informed the defendant that taking
of the depositions would be adjourned from day to day until
they were. completed. So long as such adjournments were
in fact made, he was, therefore, informed of the times when
he might attend for cross-examination. On 'the day first
designated be did attend, with his counsel, and some depositions were taken. But all the witnesses not having been •
examined, the taking was adjourned until the next day,
when it was again adjourned until the next succeeding day;
and so on, from day to day, until September 18tb, when the
deposition of Mr. Chapline was taken in the absen.ce of both
the defendant and his counsel. All the adjournments, however, were from day to day, and consequently it was the
duty of the defendant to take notice that depositions might
be taken on any day to which an adjournment was made.
We think, also, the court erred in rejecting the depositions
of Biddle, Jainieson, and others, mentioned in the bill of exceptions. They were offered to impeach the character' or
reputation of Thomas Noakes, a witness examined on behalf of the defendant. They had been taken regularly, and
the only objection urged against their admissibility is, that
the witnesses were asked if they knew the general "reputation" of Noakes for truth; instead of being asked whether
they knew his general "character." The question was precisely what it should have been. It is true that in many
cases, it has been said, the regular mode of examining is to
inquire whether the witness knows the general character of
the person whom it is intended to impeach, but in all such
cases the word character is used as synonymous with reputation. What is wanted, is the common opinion, that in
which there is general concurrence, in other words, general
reputation or character attributed. That is presumed to be
indicative of actual character, and hence it is regarded as of
impoitauce when the credibility of a witness is in question.

Oct. 1873.]

KNODE V.

WILLIAMSON.

Particulars of the third case, and opinion of the court.

The only remaining assignment of error relates to the admission of the deposition of Ellis. It had been taken under
a commission sent to the State of Maine, in another case between the same parties, in which the cause of action was the
same as in the present case, but it had not been used in the
trial of that other case. It also appeared that the witness
was beyond the district, and a resident of another State,
when his deposition was offered. But there was a material
defect in the notice given to the plaintiff of the time- and
place of takihg, which was not waived _b' any attendance
before the commissioner. The notice was without date, addressed to the attorney of the plaintiff, informing him that
the deposition would be taken on the 12th of September
(year not mentioned), at the office of Henry Hudson, in the
city of Guilford, State of Maine, between certain hours, an4
that if from any cause the taking of the deposition should
not be commenced on that day, or, if commenced, should
not be concluded, the taking thereof would be adjourned
and continued from day to day, or from 'time to time, at the
same place, and between the same hours, until completed.
No other notice, either of the commission or of the time and
place of taking the deposition, appears to have been given,
It was taken, not in the city of Guilford, but-in the towvn ofGuilford, on the 12th day of September, 1867. Whether
the town, or township of Guilford is the same as the city of
Guilford does not appear. But a partywbo attempts to use
the deposition of an absent witness must show that he has
given his advergary an opportunity to cross-examine by a
notice that is definite and certain, unless the failure to give
such notice has been waived. Such was not the notice given
in this case, and the deposition was, therefore, erroneously
received in evidence.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, AND A NEW TRIAL AWARDED.

