SAWYER

v. HOAG.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

SSA,WYER V. HOAG, -ASSXINEE.
1. Capital stock or shares of a corporation-especially the unpaid subscriptions to such stock'or shares-constitute a trust fund for the benefit of*
the general creditors of the corporation.
2. This trus' cannot be defeated by a simulated payment of the stock subscription, nor by any device short of an actual payment in good faith.
S. An arrangement by which the stock is nominally paid, and the money
immediately taken back-as a loan to the stockholder, is a device to
change the debt from a stock debt to a loan, and is not a valid payment
as against creditors of the corporation, though it may be good as between the company and the stockholder.
4. The twentieth section of the Bankrupt Act was not intended to enlarge
the doctrine of set-off beyond what the principles of legal or equitable
set-off previously authorized.
5. A stockholder indebted to an insolvent corporation for unpaid shares
cannot set-off against this trust fund for creditors a debt due hih by the
corporation. The fund arising from such unpaid shares must be equally
divided atnong all the creditors.
6. The relations of a stockholder to the corporation, and to the public who
deal with the latter, are such as to require good faith and fair dealing
in every transaction between him and the corporation, of which he is
part owner and controller, whici may injuriously affect the rights of
creditors or of the general public, and a rigid scrutiny will be made into
all such transactions in the interest of creditors.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Northern District
of IllinoiS; the case being thus:
About the 1st of April, 1865, and prior, therefpre, to the
passage of the Bankrupt Act of 1867, the directors of the
Lumberman's Insurance Company of Chicago-a company
then recently ificorporated and authorized to begin business
on a capital of $100,000, of which not less than one-tenth
should be paid in, the residue to be secured-invited subscriptions to the capital stock of the company; stating, in
most instances, to those whom they invited to subscribe, that
only 15 per cent. would be required to be paid down in cash,
and that the remaining 85 per cent. would be lent back to
the subscriber, and a tiote taken therefor, payable in five
years, with 7 per cent. interest, payable semi-annually, se-

Oct. 1873.]

SAWYER V.

H OAG.

Statement of the case.

cured by collateral security satisfactory to the directors of

the company.
In this state of things one Sawyer, about the said 1st of
April, 1865, at the solicitation of one of the directors, subscribed for fifty shares of stock. When called upon to close
his subscription, he was informed, as indeed all the subscribers were, that the matter would be closed on the plan above
mentioned.
Sawyer accordingly complied with the requirements, and
gave his check to the company for $5000, the full amount
of his stock, and his note payable to it in five years from
date, for $4250, that is to say, for 85 per cent. of the par
value of the stock, with interest, payable as aforesaid, and
delivered to the company as collateral security for the payment of his note satisfactory securities, and received forom
the company a check for $4250 or 85 per cent. of the par
value of the stock, by way of, and as for a loan thereof from
the company. At the same time Sawyer gave a written
authority to the company to sell the securities at public auction, for cash, in case default should be made in the payment
of the note and the interest thereon.
Sawyer subsequently took up this note and gave in substitution therefor another note, and new securities as collateral, with power, as in the case of the former ones, to sell
them on default of payment of the note or interest.
At the time when the said original "and substituted notes
were made, money was worth and could have been lent in
/Chicago at from 8 to 10 per cent. interest per annum, payable semi-annually, on good security.
The original transaction was regarded and treated by the
company and by Sawyer as a loan by the company to him,
and his stock was treated as fully paid for. At various times
after the giving of the original note, the company reported
to the authorities of the State of Illinois and of other States
that its capital stock was fully paid.
On the 8th and 9th day of October, A.D. 1871, a great fire
devastated the city of Chicago and rendered the Lumberman's Insurance Company insolvent; and oi the 25th of

SAWYER V. HOAG.

[Sup. Gto

Statement of the case.

January, 1872-it being at that time a notorious fact, one
well understood by the public, and one which Sawyer bad
good reason to believe, that the said company was insolvent
and unable to pay its liabiiities-Sawyer piirchased of a cerfain Hayes a certificate of an adjusted loss for $5000 against
the company for 83 per cent. of its par value.
In June, 1872, after Sawyer had pumchased this certificate
of adjusted loss, a petition in bankruptcy was filed against
the company, and it having been adjudicated a bankrupt,
one Hoag was appointed its assignee.
The thirteenth section of the iBankrupt Act enacts "that
after the adjudication in bankruptcy the creditors shall
choose one or more assignees of the debtor." And the
"fourteenth section, under the marginal head of, "What is
to be vested in the assignee by the adjudication of bankruptcy," &c., enacts that"

All the property conveyed by the bankrupt in fraud of his

creditors, all rights in equity, choses in action . . . all debts due

him or any person for his use, and all liens and securities therefor, and all his rights of action for property or estate . . . and
for any cause of action which the bankrupt had against any person .

.

.. with-the like right, title, power, and authority to sell,

manage, dispose of, sue for and recover the same, as the bankrupt might or could have had, if no assignment had been made,
shall, in virtue of the adjudication of bankruptcy aind the appointment of his assignee, be at once vested in such assignee:
and he may sue for and recover the said estate, debts and effects,
and may prosecute and defend all suits at law and equity, . . .
in the same manner and with the like effect as they might have been
prosecuted or defended by such bankrupt."
The fifteenth section of the act enacts:
"That the assignee shall, demand and receive from any and
all persons holding the same all the estate assigned or intended
to be assigned under the provisions of this act."
The sixteenth section enacts:
"That the assignee shall have the like.remedy to recover all
said estate, debts and effects; in his own name, as the debtor

Oct. 1873.]

SAWYER

v. HOAG.

Argument for the appellant.

might have had if the decree in bankruptcy had not been rendered and no assignment had been made."
Among the effects of the company, which came into
Hoag's hands as assignee, was the already-mentioned note
of Sawyer for $4250, 'With the securities assigned as collateral. Hoag demanding of Sawyer payment of this note,
Sawyer produced his certificate of adjusted loss for $5000
and insisted on setting it off against the demand; asserting
a right to do this under the twentieth section of the Bankrupt Act, a section in these words:
"In all cases of mutual debts or mutual credits between the
parties, the account between them shall be stated, and one debt
set off against the other, and the balance only shall be allowed
or paid, but no set-off shall be allowed of a claim in its nature
not provable against the estate:
"Provided, That no set-off shall be allowed in favor of any
debtor to the bankrupt of a claim purchased by or transferred
to him after the filing of the petition."
Hoag refused to allow the set-off, and was about to sell
thp collateral securities in accordance with the power given
to him. Hereupon Sawyer filed a bill in the court below to
enforce the set-off; in which he alleged, among other things,
that the note given by him to the insurance company was
for money lent to him.
The assignee, in his answer, denied that the note was for
money lent, and averred that it was in fact for a balance
due by Sawyer for his stock subscription, which had never
been paid, and insisted that such balances constituted a trust
fund for the benefit of all creditors of the insolvent corporation, which could not be made the subject of a set-off against
an ordinary debt due by the company to one of its creditors.
After the general replication, the case was submitted to the
court below on an agreed statement of facts. That court
decreed against the complainant, and from that decree the
case was brought by the present appeal to this court.
.1lessrs.D. L. Storey and C. Hitcheock,for the appellant:
1. Sawyer had a right to purchase an adjusted and nego-

SAWYER V. HOAG.

[Sup. ot.

Argument for the.appellant.

tiable claim against the insurance company at a discount,
and to set it off against his debt, notwithstanding that he
knew that the -company was insolvent at the time he purchased the claim.
Under the twentieth section of the Bankrupt Act, in cases
of mutual debts or credits between.the parties, an account isto be stated and the balance is to be allowed or paid. Two
conditions only are required: 1st. That the claim to be setoff shall be in its nature provable against the estate. 2d.
-That such claim shall have been purchased by or transferred
to the debtor before the filing of the petition. Sawyer was
within both conditions. The claim vas a.provable, claim,
and it was purchased and transferred to the debtor nearly
five months before the filing of the petition in bankruptcy.
2. .The assignee in bankruptcy has no greater or other
right thnu the bankrupt would have had if there had been
no proceedings in bankruptcy.
Under the fourteenth 'section of the Bankrupt Act rights
of action of the bankrupt vest in the a~signee, who may
prosecute the same, "in the same manner and with like
effect" as they might have been prosecuted by the bankrupt.
Hoag as assignee was the representative of -the insurance
company, and can assert.no right which it could not have
asserted.*
"I have always understood," said Lord Eldon, "that the
assignment from the commissioners, like any other assignment, by operation of law, passed the rights of the bankrupt precisely in the same plight and condition as he possessed them."t
Sawyer has held his claim under the certificate of loss
since the 25th of January, 1872. We have seen that if the
insurance company had sued him on the note it held against
him, at any time prior to the filing of the petition in bankruptcy, June 20th, 1872, his defence in set-off would have
been perfect, whether sued in, a court of law or a court of
equity. It is impossible to conceive, on the ease stated, any
* See Bemis v. Smith, 10 Metcalf, 194.
t Mitford v. Mitford, 9 Vesey, 100; 2 Smith's Leading Cases, 870.

Oct. 1873.]

SAVYEP. v. HOAG.

615

Argument for the appellee.

defence which the company could have interposed. If it is
argued that the assignee has some other and higher right
than the bankrupt would have had, it is incumbent on those
who thus argue to show upon what statute, upon what
authority, or upon what legal principle the distinction in
favor of the assignee is supported.
Mr. T. N. Jewett, contra,for the oppellee i.
1. By th6 insolvency of the company its obligations were
worth only thirty-three cents upon the dollar, and at this
rate the claim sought to be set off was purchased by the appellant. If it is allowed to-be set offin full he pays his own
debt of 64250.witli $1402.50. The insolvency, therefore, of
his creditor lessens the assets to go to the general creditors by
$4250, at a cost to him of less than one-third of the amount
due upon his note. Surely a construction will not be given to
the Bankrupt law resulting in such injustice and inequality
to the creditors. It would niake the Bankrupt law an instrument of fraud, instead of equal justice to all, and subvert the
fundamental principles of its enactment. It must also be
observed that this advantage over the other creditors would,
in this case, result to a stockholder, and upon air obligation
given in fact or effect, for his subscription for stock in
the corporation. If the right of set-off as contended for
by the appellant is sustained, then the directors and stockholders of an incorporated company may, in anticipation of
insolvency and bankruptcy, borrow the whole or a large
part of the cash assets of the company, proclaim its insolvency, depreciate its credits, and buy them up at a discount,
and thus absorb the capital of the company to the exclusion
of the general creditors. Justice would require that if losses
are to be sustained, the stockholders, who have received the
profits, should be the losers, rather than the general creditors. At all events, they should not be allowed to become
prefeired creditors to the detriment of general creditors.
We submit, as a matter for inquiry,, whether after insolvency a mutual debt or credit can be created between the
insolvent and a third person, within the meaning of the

SAWYER

v.

HOAG.

[Sup. ot.

Argument for the appellee.

Bankrupt law, by a purchase of a claim against the insolvent
without his knowledge or assent? Certainly mutual debts
and credits must result from mutual and reciprocal dealings
one with the other. How, then, can the purchase of a demand against a party, without his knowledge or consent, be
held a mutual debt?
2. It is not true-that the relative rights of parties are not
changed by the bankrupt proceedings against one of them.
They are changed by both insolvency and bankruptcy. The
Bankrupt law makes any payment, sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance, or other disposition of property, by any
person insolvent to any person who has reasonable cause to
believe such person insolvent, within six months before the
filing of a petition in bankruptcy, void, and the assignee.
,.may recover the property or value of the assets.; or if such
sale, assignment, &&.,, were not made in the usual course of
business, the fact is prirni facie evidence of fraud. Such a
transfer, but fbr the bankruptcy, could not be set aside or
divested of its legal effect at the option. of the party making
it. If the claim set up by the appellant, however, was obtained in a manner and under circumstances within the
spirit of the prohibition of the Bankrupt law, or subversive
of its intent,-the assignee may deny the right of set-off, which
could not be done as against the debtor himself.
3. A set-off cannot be allowed in this case:
1st. -Because the appellant was a stockholder in the Lumberman's Insurance Company at the time he purchased the
claim against it.
2d. Because his note was given in part payment towards
his stock subscription.
A stockholder sustains to the company in which he holds
stock a- relation which one who is not a stockholder does
not hold; a different relation. The stockholder has the
means of acquiring a knowledge of the company's affairs
and, coudition not possessed by the other; a direct interest
in its profits and losses; and stands in such a relation to the
co'mpany and -its other creditors, as ought to debar him, at
all, events, of the right to pay off his debt to the company

Oct. 1873.]

SAWYER V0. H:OAG.

Argument for the appellee.

by the purchase and set-off of depreciated claims against it
to the injury of other creditors. The note on which the
assignee here claims payment is, in substance and effect, a
stock note given for and existing as a part of the stock fund
for the security of parties dealing with the company.
That the stock and assets of an incorporated company are
a trustfund, for the security of its creditors, which may be
followed by them into the hands of any person having notice
of the trust, is an established principle, and is fully discussed and declared in many cases.*
No devices will be permitted, no shift allowed, however
artfully planned and executed, to avoid the actual and bond
fide payment of the stock of an incorporated company, for
the creation of a fund for the security of those dealing with
it. And the question, therefore, is whether this transactiou
was such an actual bon fide payment of his stock in full as
divests the note given by the appellant of the character of
a stock note, legally or equitably liable to be treated as
security for the obligations of the company?
The transaction was consummated in conformity with the
terms proposed when the subscription was made. Though
he was required to and did give his check for the full amount
of the stock, it was with the understanding that 85 per cent.
of what he paid would be returned to him on the terms upon
which his subscription was originally procured. The giving
of a check in the first instance, for the whole amount, was
but a contrivance to disguise the real transaction and its
intent. It was the payment in of money with one hand and
taking it out with the other. It was no absolute, unconditional payment, and was never designed to be so as to 85
per cent. These companies, when the stock is actually paid
up, and they are honestly administered, are sufficiently insecure without the sanction of devices by which the fund
Curran v. Arkansas, 15 Howard, 304; Wood v. Dtfmmer, 3 Mason, 808;
Lawrence v. Nelson, 21 New York, 158; Sbammon v. Kimbill, 6 Chicago
Legal News, 3; Nathan v. Whitlock, 3 Edwards's Chancery, 215; McLaren
v. Pennington, 1 Paige, 108; Long v. Penn Insurance Company, 6 Pennsylvania State, 421.

SAWYER

v. ,]OAGo

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

required by the law to be created and set apart as security
to those dealing with them, can be wholly retained by the
stockholders or passed back into their hands.
It is no answer to say that in this case the securities
pledged for the payment of the note wereanple. To allow
it in any case would be opening a door for the evasion 'of
payment of the stock, which dishonest men would be ready
to take advantage of by the pledge in similar cases of worthless securities.
4. It is assumed that because the original transaction was
regarded and treated by the compan l and the complainant as a
loan to the latter, and his stock treated and regarded as paid,
therefore neither the assignee nor any creditor can controvert the fact. But because it was so treated by-the parties
does not rhake it so as to third persdns, assignee' or creditors. Wheu they dispute the bonafides of the loan courts
will -look into the facts and determine whether it was a real
or a colorable loan.
The fact that the company reported to the State authorities the full payment of the stock, goes for nothing more
than that it was able to deceive the State,officers as well as
the public into the belief that the stock was fully paid, when
the stockholders had only paid in the money with one hand
and taken it out with the other, and had done so in pursuance of a previous concurrent agreement.
Mr.Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The first and most important question to be decided in
this case is whether the indebtedness of the appellant to the
insurance company is to be treated, for the purposes of this
suit, as really based on a loan of money by the company to
him, or as representihg his- unpaid stock subscription.
The charter under whidh the company was organized'authorized it to commence business ul*on a capital stock of
$100,000, with ten thousand paid in, and the remainder
secured by notes with rrortgages on 'real estate or other wise.
The transaction by which the appellant professes to have
paid up his stock subscription. is, shortly, this: He gam- to

Oct. 1873.]

SAWYER

v.. HOAG.

Opinion of the court.

the company his check for the full amount of his subscription, namely, $5000. He tooA: the check of the company for
$4250, being the amount of his subscription less the 15 per
cent. required of each stockholder to be paid in cash, and he
gave his note for the amount of the latter check, with good
collateral security for its payment, with interest at 7 per
cent. per annum. The appellant and the company, by its
officers, agreed to call this latter transaction a loan, and the
check of the appellant payment in full of his stock; and on
the books of the company, and in all other respects as between themselves, it was treated as payment of the subscription and a loan of money. It'is agreed that at this time the
current rate of interest in Chicago was greater than 7 per
cent., and it is not stated as a fact whether these checks
were ever presented' and paid.at any bank, or that atly
money was actually paid or received by either party in the
transaction. It must, therefore, be treated as an agreement
between the corporation, by its officers, on the one part, and
the appellant, as a subscriber to the stock of the company,
on the other part, to convert the debt which the latter owed
to the company for his stock into a debt for the loan of
money, thereby extinguishing the stock debt.
Undoubtedly this transaction, if" nothing unfair was intended, was one which the parties could do effectually as far
as they alone were concerned. Two private persons could
thus change the nature of the indebtedness of one to th
other if it was found to be mutually convenient to do so.
And in any controversy which might or could grow out of
the matter between the insurance company and the appellant we are not prepared to say tha the company, as a corporate body, could deny.that the stock was paid in full.
And on this consideration one of 'the main arguments on
which the appellant seeks to reverse the decree stands. He.
assumes that the assignee in bankruptcy is the representative alone of the corporation, and can assert no right which
it could not have asserted. The weakness of the argument
is in this assumption. The -assignee is the representative
of the creditors as well as the bankrupt. He is appointed

SAWYEPR

v. ]HLIAG.

[Sup- Ot.

Opinion of the court.

by the creditors. The statute is full of authority to him to
sue for and recover property, rights, and credits, where the
bankrupt could not have sustained the action, and to set
aside as void transactions by which the bankrupt himself
would be bound. All this,.of course, is in the interest of
the creditors of the bankrupt.
Had the creditors of this insolvent corporation any right
to look into and assail the transaction .by which the appellant claims to have paid his stock subscription?.
Though it be a doctrine.of modern date, we think it now
well established that the capital stock of a corporation,
especially its unpaid subscriptions, is a trust fund for the
benefit of the general creditors of the corporation. And
when we consider the rapid development of corporations as
instrumentalities of the commercial arid b.usiness world in
the last few years, with the corresponding necessity of adapting legal principles to the new and varying exigencies of
this business, it is no solid objection to such a principle that
it is modern, for the occasion for it could not sooner have
arisen.
The principle is fully asserted in two recent cases in this
court, namely, Burke v. Smith,* and in New Albany v. Burke.t
Both thgese cases turned upon the doctrine we have stated,
nd upon the necessary inference from that doctrine, that
the governing officers of a cprporation cannot, by agreement
or other transaction with the stockholder, .release the latter
from his obligation to pay, to the prejudice of its creditors.
except by fair and honest dealing and for a va'uable consideration.
in the latter case, a judgment creditor of an insolvent
railroad company, having exhausted his remedy at law,
sought ,to enforce this principle by a bill in chancery against
the stockholders. The court, by affirming the right of the
corporation to deal with the debt due it for stock as with
any other debt, would have ended the case without further
inquiry. But asserting, on the contrary, to its full extent,
* 16 Wallace, 890.

t ii Ia.96.

Oe:"- 1873.]

SAWER V. HOAG.
Opinion of the court.

tha.such stock debts were trust flinds in their hands for the
benefit of the corporate creditors, and must in all cases be
dealt with as trust funds are dealt with, it was found necessary to go into an elaborate inquiry to ascertaiih whether a
violation of the trust had been committed. _And though
the court find that the transaction by which the stockholders
had been released was a fair and valid one, as founded on
the conditions of the original subscription, the assertion of
the general rule on the subject is none the less authoritative
and -emphatic.*
In the case before us the assignee ofi the bankrupt, in the.
interest of the creditors, has a right to inquire into this conventional payment of his stock by one of the shareholders
of the company; and on that inquiry, we are of opinion
that, as to these creditors, there was no valid payment of;
his stock by the appellafit. We do not base this upon the
ground that no money actually passed between the parties.
It would have been just the same if, agreeing beforehand to
turn the stock debt into a loan, the appellant had brought
the money with him, paid it, taken a receipt for it, and carried it away with him. This would be precisely the equivalent of the exchange of checks between the parties. It is
the intent and purpose of the traniaction which forbids it to
be treated as valid payment. It is the change of the character of the debt from one of a stock subscription unpaid to
that of a loan of money. The debt ceases by this operation,
if effectual, to be the trust fund to which creditors can look,
and becomes ordinary assets, with which the directors may
deal as they choose.
And this was precisely what was designed by the parties.
It divested the claim against the stockholder of its character
of a trust fund, and enabled both him and the directors to
deal with it freed from that charge. There are three or
four of these cases now before us in which precisely the
same thing was done by other insurance companies organ* See also Curran v. State of Arkansas, 15 Howard, 304; 'Wood v. Dummef, 3 Mason, 305; Slee v. Bloom, 19 Johnson, 456, and numerous other
cases cited by the counsel for the appellees.

"622

SAWYER -v. HOAG.

[Sup. ot.,

Opinion of the court.

ized in Chicago, and we have no doubt it was done by this
company in regard to all their stockholders.
It was, therefore, a regular system of operations to the
injury of the creditor, beneficial, alone to the stockholder
and the corporation.
We do not believe we characterize it too strongly when:
we say that it was a fraud upon the public who were expected to deal 'ith them.
The result of it was that the capital stock of the company was neither paid up in actual m.ojyey, nor did it exist
in the form of deferred instalments properly secured.
It is said by the appellant's counsel that conceding this, it
is still a debt due by him to the corporation at the time that
he became the owner of the debt due by the corporation to
Hayes, and, therefore, the proper subject of seL-off under
the twentieth section of the Bankrupt Act. That section is
as follows: "1Iti all cases of mutual debts or mutual credits
between the parties, the. account between them shall be
stated, and one debt set off against the other, and the balance
only shall be allowed or paid, but no set-off shall be allowed
of a claim in its nature not provable against the estate:
Provided, that no set-off shall be allowed iu favor of any
debtor to-the bankrupt of a claim purchased by or transferred to him after the filing of the petition."
This section was not intended to enlarge the doctrine of
set-of, or to enable a party to make a set-off in cases where
the principles of legal or equitable set-off did ntt previously
anthorize it.
The 'debts must be mutual; must be in the s.me .right.
The case before us is not of thaf chal~acter, The debt
which the appellant owed for his stock was a trust fund
devoted to therpayment of all the -creditors of the company.
As soon as the'company became idfsolvent, and this fact became known to the appellant, the right of set-off for an
ordinary debt to its full aniount ceasqd.; It became a fund
to all the creditors, and could
Sbelonging ;equallyi.nw eitf
not be appropriated by'.U6 d6bt6i to the excliiive payment
of his dwn claim.

Oct. 1873.1

SAWYER V. HOAG.
Opinion of the court.

It is unnecessary to go into the inquiry whether this claim
was acquired before the commission of an act of bankruptcy
by the company, or the effect of the bankruptcy proceeding. The result would be the same if the corporation was
in the process of liquidation in the hands of a trustee or
under other legal proceedings. It would still remain true
that the unpaid stock was a trust fund for all the creditors,
which could not be applied exclusively to the payment of
one claim, though held by the stockholder who owed that
amount on his subscription.
Nor do we think the relation of the appellant in this -case
to the corporation is without weight in the solution of the
question before us. It is very true, that by the power of
the. legislature there is created in all acts of incorporation
a legal entity which can contract with its shareholders in tite
ordinary transactions of business as.with other persons. -It
can buy of them, sell to them; make loans to them, and in
insurance companies, m~ake contracts ofinsurance with them,
in all of which both parties are bound by the ordinary laws
of contract. The stockholder is also relieved from personalliability for the debts of the company. But after all, this
artificial body is but the representative of its stockholders,
and exists mainly for their benefit, and is governed and controlled by them through the officers whom they elect. And
the interest and power of legal control of each shareholder
is in exact proportion to the amount of his stock. It is,
therefore, but just. that when, the in terest of the public, or
of strangers dealing with this corporation is to be affected
by any transaction between the stockholders who own the
corporation and the corporation itself, siuch transaction
should be subject to a rigid scrutiny, and if found to be ipfected with anything unfair towards such third person, calculated to injure him, or designed intentionally and inequitably to screen the stockholder from loss at the expense of'
the general creditor, it should be disregarded or annulled
so far asit may inequitably affect him.*
* Lawrence v. Nelson, 21 New York, 158.

'

KIBE"

BENSON.

*[8up. Ct.

Statement of the case.

These 'rincip1es require the affirmation of the decree in
the present case, and it islaccordingly
AI'FIRMED.

Mr, Justice HUNX.T dissented, holding that the transaction
was a loan by the company to the appellant.

, NoYE.
At the same time with the preccdJng 6ase Were subimitied
and adjudged'two other cases, V eyer v. 7'ocke, Assignee,' and
Jaeger v. Same Defendant, both from the same courb as the preceding case, which though differing, both, in some respects,-tbe
latter case .especially, which was a suit at law,-from the one
just above :reported, were declared by. the. court to fall within
the sane governing principles., In both cases the decision bein favo, of the assignee in bankruptcy, and in
low had be.
both it was accordingly ;affirmed.in this ,court.

]KIBBE

v. BENSON.

1. Under a statute which requires .that in 'actions of ejectment where the
premises are aptually, ocupied,,th, declaration shall he served by delivering a copy thereof . . . to the defendant named therein, who shall be
in the ocbupancy :of the preiniseg, or if he be ajs eht by leaving the same
with some white person of -th6 family, of the age of ten years or Iipwa~ds, "qt the dwelling-house of. subh defendant;" a leaving -of the
declaration%with such a white-person qf the fimilywhen he is at a distance of one hundred and twenty-five feet from the house and in a
corner, of 'the y'rd of the house, is hot a compliance with the requirement.of 'the statute.
2: Judgment.obtained by default, on such a service, the defendant not having
had actual notice of what was done, and, averring a good title in himself, set aside on bill in equity.

APPEAL from the Circuit Courf for the'Southern District

of Illinois; the case being ihus:
A statute of Illinois, relating to actions of ejectment,
adopted by the Federal court sitting in the Illinois district,

