[Sup. OL

IRODD V. HEARTT.
Syllabus.

sign manifested, nor indiciaexhibited, nor notice given, which
could apprise the community of any change of ownership.
The object of the statute is to prevent parties from being
misled by apparent ownership of property where real ownership does not exist, but where a secret transfer has been
made to another. This object would be defeated if a sale
like the present one could be upheld. In the case of Olaflin
v. Rosenberg,* where the vendor had become the clerk of the
purchaser, the Supreme Court of Missouri held that the possession vyhich the purchaser , was required to take of the
property sold, in order to render the sale valid under the
statute, must be open, notorious, and unequivocal, such as
would inform the public, or those who were accustomed to
deal with the party, that the property had changed hands,
and that the title had passed from the vendor to the purchaser; observing at the same time thaf possession of this
kind excluded the idea of a joint or concurrent possession
with the vendor. The statute being a local one, applying
only to sales in Missouri, this court will follow the construe-

tion given to it by the highest court of the State.
, The assignee of Downing's estate was authorized, by the
express terms of the fourteenth section of the Bankrupt Act,
to pursue the property thus attempted to be transferred, and,
as auxiliary to its recovery, to ask that the sale of the bankrupt be annulled.

DECREE

AFFIRMED.

RODD v. HEARTT.
1. A district judge, sitting as the Circuit Court, may allow an appeal from
his own decree.
2. Where the claim on a fund in the Registry of the Admiralty of several
mortgages secured in a body by one mortgage, exceeds $2000, an appeal
to this court will lie by the"mortgagees in a body, though the claim
of no one of them exceed the said sum.
8. Where the Circuit Court "decrees" that a fund in court belongs to cer* 42 Missouri, 489.

Dec. 1872.]

R ODD V. HZEARTT.
Statement of the case.

tain persons named, and that their claims be paid, and (the fund not
being large enough to pay all the persons in full) orders a distribution
by a commissioner, in accordance with the principles laid down by the
court, and on a table of distribution being reported by the commissioner,
recites that the commissioner had submitted a distribution based upon
the decree theretofore made by the court, and then "orders and decrees"
that the fund be distributed according to it, the "decree" may be considered as of either date as respects the matter of a supersedeas.
4. As respects the question whether the appeal was in time to operate as a
supersedeas, the case is i'egulated by the act of June 1st, 1872, which
allows sixty days, and not by the Judiciary Act of 1789.

ON motion to dismiss an appeal from the Circuit Court

for the District of Louisiana; the case being this:
A steamer having been sold under a proceeding in rem in
the admiralty, left in the registry of the court $4337.51,
claimed on the one hand by Rodd and several other persons,
creditors of the owners, who by one mortgage on the vessel
had undertakeii to secure all these creditors in a body, and
on the other hand claimed by Heartt and others, mariners,
furnishers" of supplies, and material-men. The claim of
Rodd under the mortgage was $4825, and of his co-mortgagees over (in the aggregate) $8000. The claims of the
opposing mariners, furnishers of supplies, and material-men
were $10,151.
The case coming before the District Court that court
ordered that the fund in dispute should-',be paid to Rodd
and the others in satisfaction of the mortgage claims. This
gave Rodd, who was the largest of the mortgage creditors,
$1498.99 as his pro ratashare.
From this decree of the District Court the mariners, furnishers of supplies, and material-men appealed; and on the
appeal, the Circuit Court, on the d of Jte, 1872, ordered
that the decree of the District Court "be avoided and reversed;" and decreed that "the claims of the mariners,
furnishers of supplies, and material-men be recognized as
superior to those of the mortgage creditors and paid in preference to the latter, and that a new distribution of the proceeds be prepared by the commissioner in accordance with
the principles thus laid down."

:RODD V.

EEARTT.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the jurisdiction.

A new table of distribution having been pr.ephred accordingly, and reported to the court, the following order was
entered on the 6th of June, 1872:
"The commissioner having submitted a distribution based
upon the decree heretofore made by the court, it is ordered and
decreed that the balance of the proceeds of the steamer, now in
the registry of this court, be distributed as follows:"
And then. followed the names of the distributees and the
pro rata sum awarded to each.
This decree being made, Rodd and his co-mortgagees, by
one petition -filed in the Circuit Court, on the 15th of June,
1872 (but one Sunday having intervened between that day
and-the preceding 3d of June), prayed an appeal; and on
the same day,. the districtjudge sitting in the Circuit Court,
allowed it.
Mr. B. .De Gray,for.th 'motion, asked the dismissal'of the
appeal on thi'ee grounds:
First. That the appeal was from a decree of the Circuit
Court, reversing a decree of the District Court, and was
allowed by the district judge; who, ihough the Judiciary
Act makes him a member of the Circuit Court, yet providbd
"that no district judge shall give a vote in any cause of appeal . . . from his own'decision."
Second. Because no one of the claims exceeded $2000;
Rodd's, which was the largest, beifig but $1498.99, and the
Judiciary.Acts giving.an appeal only "1where the matter in
dispute exceeds $2000."
Third. 'Because the appeal wvas not in time to operate as a
supersedeas; more than ten days, as the learned counsel alleged, having elapsed from the 3d of June, when, as he'contended, the final decree was entered, till the 15th, when- the
appeal was allowed, and the Judiciary Act of 1789, makihg
a writ of error (to which by an act of 1803 any qppeal conforms) a supersedeas only in cases where it is served within
ten days (Sundays excepted) after the decree has passed.
Mr. T. J. Semmes, contra.

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD COMPANY v. LoCKwooD.
Syllabus.

The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.*
As to.the first of the grounds, on which a dismissal of this
appeal is asked, on looking into the acts of Congress relating
to the connection of the district judge with the Circuit
Court, we are of opinion that, though upon appeals from
the District Court the district judge has no vote in the Circuit Court, he has in all other respects the powers of a member of the court, and may consequently allow appeals from

its decisions.
Secondly, it is apparent that, though no one of the claims
allowed exceeded $2000, yet the claim of the appellants,
which was disallowed, exceeded that sum.
Thirdly, we are of opinion that the decree may be considered as of either the 3d day of June or the 6th day of
June, 1872, and that the appeal was in time to operate as a
supersedeas under the act of 1789. That act, however, does
not prescribe the existing rule. The act of June 1st, 1872,t
which must govern the case, allows sixty days for the filing
of the bond by which the appeal is made to operate as. a
MOTION DENIED.

supersedeas.

RAILROAD COMPANY V.

LOCKWOOD.

1. A common carrier cannot lawfully stipulate for exemption from responsibility when such exemption is not just and reasonable in the eye of
the law.
2. It is not just and reasonable in the eye of the law for a common carrier
to stipulate for exemption from responsibility for the negligence of himself or his servatits.
3. These rules apply both to common carriers of goods and common carriers
of passengers, and. with especial force to the latter.
4. They apply to the case of a drover travelling on a stock train to look
after his cattle, and having a free pass for that purpose.
* This.was the last opinion ever delivered by Chief Justice CHAsE, and the
last also given in the I&6'eiber Term, 1872. It was given on the 1st day
of May, 1873. The Chief Justice died on the following 7th.
t 17 Stat. at Large, 198.

