HORN V. LOCKHART.

[Sup. C.

Syllabus.

In -The amnes Gray v. The John I-Maser,* stress was laid
upon the fact that there was no act of Congress in conflict
with the city ordinance in questioii. - See, also, in this counection, Osborne v. The 6'ly of .obile.t
If the requirements of the statute here in question were,.
as contended by the counsel for the plaintiff in error, regedalions of commerce, the question would arise, whether, regarded
in the light of the authorities referred to, and of reason and
principle, they are not regulations of such a character as to
be valid until superseded by the paramount action of Congress. But as we are unanimously of the opinion that they
are merely police regulations, it is unnecessary to pursue
the subject.
JUDGMENT

AFFIRMED.

HORN v. LoCKHART .ET AL.
1. When objection is taken to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the
United States by reason of the citizenship of some of the parties to a
suit, the question is whether to a decree authorized by the case presented they are indispensable rarties. If their interests are severable
from those of other parties, and a decree without prejudice to their
rights can be made, the jurisdiction of the court should be retained and
the suit dismissed as to them.
2. To a suit brought in the Circuit Court of the United States by legatees in
a will to compel an executor to account for moneys received by him
from sales of property belonging to the estate of his testator, and to pay
to -them their distributive shares, it is no answer for the executor to
show that he invested such funds in the bolids of the Confederate government by authority of a law of the State in which-he was executor,
and that such investment was approved by the decree qf the probate
court having settlement of the estate. Such investment was a direct
contribution to the resources of the Confederate-government, and was
an illegal transaction, and the decree of the probate court approving the
investment and directing the payment of the distributive shares of the
legatees in such bonds was an absolute nullity, and affords no protection,
to the executor in the courts of the United States.
* 21 Howard, 184.

2 16
1 Wallace, 479.

Oct. 1873.]

HORN v.

LOCKHART.

Statement of the case.
3. The acts of the several States in their individual capacities, and of their
different departments of-government, executive, judicial, and legislative,
during the war, so far as they did not impair or tend to impair the supremacy of the National authority, or the just rights of citizens under
the Constitution, are, in general, to be treated as valid and binding.

APPCAL from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of Alabama; 'the case being thus:
In March, 1858, one John Horn, of Marengo County,
Alabama, died, leaving a considerable estate, including a
homestead plantation of 720 acres, a smaller- tract of 208

acres, with other pieces of land, seventy-eight negro slaves,

and other personalty; and leaving also a widow and six
children, among them a soni John A. 0. Horn, and daughters; one married to Williai Lockhart, another married to
Charles Lockhart, and a third married to one MuPhail.
These three daughters, with their husbands, resided in
'Texas. The rest of the children and the widow resided, as
the decedent had done, in Alabama. In May, 1857, the deceased made a will, which was in existence up to a short
time prior to his death. His said son alleged that it had
been afterwards fraudulently purloined and destroyed. The
daughters alleged that their father voluntarily destroyed it
before his death.
Soon after the death of Horn, the son procured himself
to be appointed administrator ad colligendum, and by petition in the Probate Court of Marengo County, set -up a
paper which he Elleged to be a true copy of his father's will,
with allegations as to its spoliation, &c., and praying that it
might be established as his will. The widow and all the
cildren residing in Alabama, were duly cited to appear and
show cause why. the alleged will should not be admitted to
probate. As the Lockharts with McPhail and wife resided
in Texas, a notice of tl~e time and place set for the hearing
was duly published in a newspaper, as authorized and required by the laws of Alabama. Some only of the parties
interested appeared, and contested the probate of the alleged will. The question as to its validity was tried by a
jury according to the laws of Alabama; and it was estab-

HORN v.

LOCKHART.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

lished by their verdict and the judgment of the court in
September, 1858. In November following, letters testamentarv were issued to the son, as the executor.
.By the wilL thunsestahlished, the homestead was given to
the son atter his mother's- -decease, and the smaller tract of
2.08-acres was directed to be sold and the proceeds divided
equally amongst the daughters. ' The residue 'of the estate
was to be -equally diviaed between all the children. The
widow repudiated the-will and claimed her dower.
On the 29th of December, 1858, by order of the, court, a
division of the slaves of the testator was made between his
widow and children,-by commissioners appointed for the
purpose and -upon a valuation then made. The daughters
severally, with their husbands, gave receipts for those which
were assigned to them in this-division; the receipts reciting
that the slaves received were in full of their distributive
share of the fiegro property of the deceased. At the same
time the executor made payments of money to the daughters,
and took receipts for the amounts, reciting that they were in
part payment of their claims against the estate.
In October, 1859, the executor filed a partial account of
his administration, including his sales of property at the
said division of slaves. Some of the items of the account
were contested, but in May, 1860,.a decree was finally made
by which it was declared that the executor had in his hands
for distributioti $10,783, proceeds of the land sold and to be
divided arong'the daughters, and $5159, p'roceeds of personal property to be divided among the wid w and children
in' accordance with the will, specifying the amount payable
to each. Such div.ision was accordiigly made, and receipts
taken by the executor from the parties.
In August, 1860, and January, 1861, a citation was issued
at the suit of some of the daughters to call the executor to
a final account. There was then a balancein his hands due
from one Craighead, the purchaser of the real estate, devised for the benefit of the daughters. It had been sold on
the 8th of January, 1859, on a credit of twelve months, for
$10,400, of which $6240 had been paid in good money by

Oct. 1873.]

HORN V. LOCKHART.

Statement of tho case.

the purchaser, and included in the partial account settled in
May, 1860. But there was still a balance due of $4160, besides interest. Craighead died in June, 1859. His wife
took out letters of administration on his estate.- By the
laws of Alabama, she, as administrator, could not have been
sued until after six mouths from the grant of letters ofAadministration, but the executor did not bring suit after that
term hd elapsed for the balance thus due from the estate;
nor did he collect the amount until October, 1862, when he
took it in Confederate notes, amounting t6 $5075.
He kept this money, and other money of the estate which
he had previously received from certain sales of property,
in Confederatb funds in his hand until March, 1864, when,
under sanction of laws of Alabama then existing, he deposited $7900 thereof as executor in the Confederate States
.depository office at Selma, Alabama, and received a certificate entitling him to Confederate States fbur per cent. bonds
to that amount. The receiving of mbney by Horn, Jr., as
executor, in Confederate notes, and the investment of said.
notes in Confederate bonds, were in strict accordance with
laws passed by the legislature of Alabama in November,
1861, and November, 1863, whilst that State was engaged in
rebellion against the United States.
In May, 1864, on the 2d of that nmonth, the final accounts
of the exectitor were passed in the probate court after due
publicaion of notice, and he resigned his executorship in
accordance with the laws of Alabama. The final decree
recited the fact that it appeared that the executor had invested the moneys of the estate in his hands, being proceeds of sales of property of the estate, in four per cent.
Confederate bonds, and approved and confirmed the same,
and directed the several shares of the widow and children
of the deceased to be paid to them in said bonds. The
bonds were never accepted by the legatees, nor did it appear that they were ever tendered to them by the executor.
In this state of things, the Lockharts, resident as already
mentioned in Texas, filed their bill, on the 15th of November,
1867, in the court below, agaitist Horn, the executor, the

HORN V. LOCKHART.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Widow, and, the other daughters and their husbands (all of
them being residents of Alabama, except McPhail anld wife,
who, qs already said, resided, as did the complainants themselhes,
in .'exas), to set aside the alleged will, which had been admitted to probate in September, 1858, and to recover their
distributive share of the estate of their father, or in case the
.-will should be sustained, to recover from the executor the
balance due them is legatees, which he had invested in Confederate bonds; they insisting in their bill that there was no
law, either valid or pretended, which authorized the Probate
Cohrt of Marengo County to render a decree making the
amounts due them payable in Confederate bonds, and alleging that no such bonds were ever paid to or received by
them.
Objection was taken ,in the Circuit Court to its jurisdiction, on account of the residence of these two defendants in
the same State with the complainants.
The court in its final decree directed the bill to be e,,
missed as to these two defendants, as not b'eing essential
parties to the suit by the complainants.
On the main question the court held that the complainants were barred by the statute of limitations of Alabama,
from filing a bill to set aside the will, and were estopped
from doing so by their own acts, inasmuch as after the will
was admitted to probate they had twice received, without.
'Objection or protest, dividends of the property of the deceased, founded on the directions of his will, and gave to
the executor acquittauces therefor; that in this they had
recognized the will, and recognized the son as the executor
thereof, and that they could not afterwards come- into a
court of equity without any allegation of fraud or concealment, or newly discovered evidence, and ask to have the
will set aside.
But the court held that the executor could not exonerate
himself from liability for the"balance adjudged due the legatees, by paying the same in Confederate bonds. It observed that as a general rule all transactions, judgments,
and decrees ivhich took place in conformity with existing

Oct. 1873.]

HORN v.

LOCKHART.

Argument for the appellant.

laws in the Confederate States between the citizens thereof,
during the late war, except such as were directly in aid of the
rebellion, ought to stand good; that the exception of such transactions was a political necessity required by the dignity of
the government of the United States, and by every principle
of fidelity to the Constitution and laws of our common
country; that by this rule the present case must be judged,
and that by this rule the deposit of the $7900, money of the
estate, in the depository of the Confederate States at Selma,
could not be sustained, hs it was a direct contribution to the
resources of the Confederate government. The decree of
the court, therefore, directed the executor to pay to the complainants in lawful money of the United States the several
sums adjudged to be due to them by the probate court on
the rendition of his final account in May, 1864. From this
decree an appeal was taken by .the executor alone.
The case was twice argued.
Mr. P. -Phillips,for the appel~ani:
I. The final decree is the first iotice which the record
gives of the dismissal of the bill as to McPhail. and wifeBut whether or not the court had jurisdiction of the cause
must be determined by the- state of the cause when it was
submitted f6r decision. Even Gonolly v. Taylor,* which may
be relied on by the other side, does not justify the action in
this case. Counsel there had been arguing that the jurisdiction depended on the state of the parties at the commencement of the suit. The Chief Justice says, in reply, that the
defect may "be corrected at any time before the hearing."
Again he says:
"Had the cause come on for a hearing in this state of parties a
decree could not have been made for want of jurisdiction. The
•name'bf the citizen, plaintiff was, however, struck out of the
bill before the cause was brought before the court."
The bill here is filed by the Lockharts to set aside a will, to
have distribution made of the estate, and an account against
2 Peters, 564.

:IoRN V.' LOCKHART.[

[Sup. or.

Argument for the appellant.'

the executor. In such-a bilt MPhail and wife were necessary parties,* and in dismissing the bill aq to them to ciu'e
the defect of jurisdiction, it was made defective for want of
necessary parties.'
IL It is not- necessary to argue that the'decree of the probate court, thought made during the civil war, was not for
that reason void. The court had jurisdiction of the subjectmatter and of the parties. -In'recognizing the legality of the
investment in Confederate bonds, and ordering distribution
in them, it had the sanction of the laws of the State and of
the Confederate States, under whose dominion it exercised
its functions. All the parties to the controversy were voluntarily under this dominion,.and whatever was consummated
under these laws cannot be readjudicated except by provisions of law enacted for that purpose. Admitting, for the
argument, that these laws could be held as invalid, the only
consequence would be, not that the decree of final settlement
was void, but that it was erroneous, and the time and manner for correcting the error must be- looked for in the statutes of the State.t That the present decree was final, and
concluded all the parties, until reversed, was decided by the
Supreme Court of the State, in 1870,$ in a proceeding by
one of' the parties to the present bill, who sought to open it.
[The counsel then, in order to ascertain particularly what
these laws were, gave a history of legislation during the war,
inferring from it as plain that all parties aggrieved by judgments or decrees rendered during the civil war had a remedy
by way of new trial or appeal.
He also referred to statutes prior to the war, ailowing a
bill to correct any error in a settlement with an executor in
the decree of the probate court, if filed within two yeairs from
the date of the decree; arguing that after making all allowances this bill was about two months too late.]
But if the bill had been filed in time, the decree was
Barney v. Baltimore, 6 Wallace, 288.
t WVyman i. Campbell, 6 Porter, 219; Thompson v. Tolmie, 2 Peters,
162; Beauregard v. City of New Orleans, 18 HoWard, 502.
$ Horn v. Bryan, 44 Alabama, 88.

Oct. 1873.]

"H0RNv).

LOCKHART.

Argument for the appellant.

wrong in holding the executor liable by reason of his funding the Confederate money. It is said that this was an act
in aid of the rebellion which the dignity of the government
will not allow to stand good. But, how so? This is not a
case where a party is asking the aid of the court to enforce
an illegal contract or to enforce a-right arising under an unconstitutional law; but is an appeal to the court to relieve
one of the parties to a consummated act to set aside a judgment rendered under a government exericising full dominion
over all the parties to it, and with their assumed assent. In
such a case it does not lie in the mouth of a complainant to
say that the court of probate could not exercise judicial
power during the war, nor that these proceedings are
erroneous in carrying into effect the laws of the Confederate
government, because made to facilitate the war against the
government of the United States. If the statute was illegal
-the complainants must be considered in law as having been
parties to it, and as responsible and as much bound as if the
record had shown that they were themselves the authors of
it; as between citizens thus situated all consummated acts
are beyond the reach of judicial revision. The court will
not lend its aid to them to undo their own acts.
It may be stated here as matter of fact that the law of the
Confederate government, under which the investment under
consideration was made, and which was passed on the 15th
of February, 1864, required Confederate notes to be funded
by a certain time, and enacted that on failure to have them
so funded they should no longer be receivable for public
dues; they were also to be taxed 33 per cent., and in addition thereto 10 per cent. a month. Now, if the executor
under this law had failed to fund, and allowed the notes to
perish on his hands, the complainants in the courts of the
Confederacy would have had a perfectly clear case for condemning him. Can they now come into the courts of the
United States and hold the executor liable on the opposite
ground ?
These principles here advanced have been fully sustained
VOL. XVI.

37

578

HORN v. LOCKHART.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

by the highest court in Alabama, Mississippi, and Virginia.*
The conduct of a trustee or agent must not be judged of
by matters ex post facto.

The funding by the executor can in no just sense be considered as an act "in aid of the rebellion." It is not pretended that the funding was made with such intention, but,
whether with or without intent, was it such an act? By
funding the notes the debt of the Confederacy was neither
augmented nor diminished; its form was Only changed. By
failing to fund, the debt was diminished by so much currency
made valueless, without any increase in the bonded debt. It
is therefore evident that, with the alternative before him to
fund or not to fund, the executor acted in the mode least
beneficial to the finances of the Confederacy, and for so actmng-that is to say for not having given greater aid to the
rebellion-the decree holds him liable!
Admit, however, that this funding was illegal, and that
,consequently the executor is liable as for a conversion, this
would not charge him in specie or its equivalent with the
amount of the funds bonverted. The money which he received was, of course, Confederate notes (the only currency
-of-the South), and the measure of his liability is their value
at the time of conversion.t To this extent the decree ought
in any view to be modified.
lr.

. T. Milorgan, contra.

Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The validity of the Will of John Horn, deceased, is not a
question for our consideration. The Circuit Court held that
the statute of limitations of Alabama had barred the right
of the complainants to contest its validity, and also that they
-were estopped from such contestation by accepting, without
.objectiou or protest, dividends of the property founded upon
the directions of the will. The executor and principal de* Watson and wife v. Stone, 40 Alabama, 451 ; Trotter v. Trotter, 40 Mis-

.-isspp -es10.
tHead v. Talley, Administrator, 3 American Law Times, No. 9, p. 155.

Oct. 1873.]

Oou0RT V. LOCKHART.
Opinion of the.court.

visee does not, of course, controvert the correctness of this
decision, as it sustains his position, and the complainants.
have not appealed.
The case, as presented to us, therefore, is one where an
executor in Alabama is alleged to have misappropriated
funds of an estate, to which legatees in Texas were entitled,
and to enforce from" the executor an accounting and payment the legatees ask the aid of a court of the United States.
The objection to the jurisdiction of the court, that two of
the defendants were residents of Texas, the same State with
the complainants, was met and obviated by the dismissal of
the suit as to them. They were not iidispensable parties,
that is, their interests were not so interwoven and bound up
with those of the complainants, or other parties, that no
decree could be made without necessarily affecting them.
And it was only the presence of parties thus situated which
was essential to the jurisdiction of the court. The rights of
the parties, other than the defendants who were citizens of
Texas, could be, and were, adequately and fully determined
without prejudice to the interests of those defendants. And
the question always is, or should be, when objection is taken
to the jurisdiction of the court by reason of the citizenship
of some of the parties, whether to a decree authorized by
the case presented, they are indispensable parties, for if their
interests are severable and a decree without prejudice to
their rights can be made, the jurisdiction of the court should
be retained and the suit dismissed as to them.*
Upon the accounts presented by the executor tQ the probate court in Alabama for* settlement, it appears that he
received moneys from the sales of property belonging to the
estate of the testator, amounting to over seven thousand
dollars, and invested the same in bonds of the Confederate
States. By the decree of the probate court this investment
was approved, and the executor was directed to pay the legatees their respective shares in those bonds. Now the question is whether this disposition of the moneys thus received,
* See Barney v. City of Baltimore, 6 Wallace, 280; and Shields v. Bar-

row, 17 Howard, 130.

HORN v._ LOCKHART.

.

[$up. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and the decree of the court, are a sufficient answer on the
part of the executor to the present suit of the legatees to
compel an accounting and payment to them of their shares
of those funds.
It would seem that tlpre could be but one answer to this
question. The bonds of the Confederate States were issued
for the avowed puirpose of raising funds to prosecute the
war then waged by them against the government of the
United States. The investment was, therefore, a direct contribution to the resources of the Confederate government;
it was an act giving aid and comfort to the enemies of tlie
United States; and the invalidity of any transaction of that
kind, from whatever source originating, ought not to be a
debatable matter in the courts of the United States. No
legislation of Alabama, no act of its convention, no judgment of its tribunals, and no decree of the Confederate government, could make such a transaction lawful.
We admit that the acts of the several States in their individual capacities, and of their different departments of government, executive, judicial, and legislative, during the war,
so fairas they did not impa.r or tend to impair the supremacy
of the Natiom,! authority, or the just rights of citizens under
the Constitution, are, in general, to be treated as valid and
binding. The existence of a state of insurrection and war
did not loosen the bonds of society, or do away with civil
government, or the regular administration of the laws.
Order-was to be preserved, police regulations maintained,
crime prosecuted, property protected, contracts enforced2 .
marriages celebrated, estates settled, ana the transfer and
descent of property regulated precisely as in time of peace.
No one that we are aware of seriously questions the validity
of judicial or legislative acts in the insurrectionary States
touching these and kindred subjects, where they were not
hostile in their purpose or mode of enforcement to the authority of the National government, and did not impair the
rights of citizens under the Constitution. The validity of
the action of the probate court of Alabama in the present
case in the settlement of the accounts of the executor we do

Oct. 1873.]

HORN v. LOCXHAIT.
Opinion of the court.

not question, excepf so far as it approves the investment, ot
funds received by him in Confederate bonds, and directs
payment to the legatees of their distributive share.s in those
bonds. Its action in this respect was an absolute nullity,
and can afford no protection to the executor in the courts of
the United States.
The act of Alabama which the executor invokes in justification of the investment has been very properly pronounced
unconstitutional by the highest tribunal of that State,* and
the attempt of its legislature to release executors and trustees from adcounting for assets in their hands invested in a
similar manner rests upon no firmer foundation.
Had the legatees of the testator voluntarily accepted the
bonds in discharge of their respective legacies, the case
would have presented a vcry different aspect to us. The
estate might then have been treated as closed and settled,
but such is not the fact. The bonds-were never accepted
by the legatees, nor does it appear that the executor even
went so far as to offer the bonds to them.
It is urged by counsel for at least a modification of the
judgment of the Circuit. Court, that the money received by
the executQr was in Confederate notes, which at the time
constituted the currency of the Confederate States. It does
not appear, however, that he was under any compulsion to
receive the notes. The estate came into his hands-in November, 1858, and no explanation is given for his delay in effecting a settlement nuntiFthe war became flagrant. And even
then be was not bound to part with the title to the property
in.his hands without receiving an equivalent in good money,
or such, at least, as the legatees were willing to accept.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

Dissenting,
STRONG.

Mr. Justices

SWAYNE,

DAVIS,

and

NOTE.

At a subsequent day a motion for rehearing was made, and
an elaborate brief by Ar. Phillips filed in support thereof. The
motion, however, after advisement, was DENIED.
* Houston v. Deloach, 43 Alabama, 364; Powell v. Boon & Booth, lb. 459.

