Dec. :1872o.]

ALLEN V. MASSEY.

Syllabus.

duct. If the other sist~r5 Rosalie, who died unmarried in
1860, considered Beale had wronged her, she would not
have intrusted him, as she did, with the management of her
share of the money received from the sale of the farm.
There is otie other point in connection with the testimony
of Mrs. Hume- worthy of comment. She swears that, in
1834 or 1835, she advised her husband against suing Beale,
for the reason that he was poor and nothing could be made
out of him, and that her husband used to lend Beale money
and supersede his debts for him. If this be so, the theory
on which this case is prosecuted falls to the ground, for the
whole effort is to show that Beale got so rich immediately
after the conversion of the personal estate that he must have
shared the proceeds. It is argued that the conversations
which Beale had with Douglass refer to the obligations arising from his breach of trust, and that, therefore, Mrs. Hume
is sustained by the testimony of Douglass. But manifestly
Beale is not talking on this subject; he is talking about the
sum of $3000 which Miss Rosalie Berry got friom the sale of
the farm and placed in his hands to loan. This money he
owed the estate of Miss Berry, and was desirous of paying
to her next of kin, Mrs. Hume and Mrs. Crosby.
It is needless to pursue the subject further. If Beale was
guilty of misconduct in his character of trustee, the complainants had full knowledge of it and acquiesced in it for
a great length of time, and there is nothing shown in the
evidence to overcome the decisive influence of this knowl-

edge and acquiescence.

ALLEN V.

DECREE AFFIRmED.

MASSEY.

1. Under the statute of frauds of Missouri, as interpreted by the highest
court of that State, an interpretation which this court will follow, a sale
of household furniture in a house occupied jointly by vendor and vendee, both using the furniture alike, and there being no other change of
possession than that the vendor, after going around with the vendlee and

ALLEN V. MASSEY.

[Sup. Cr.

Statement of the case.
looking at the furniture and agreeing on the price, turned it over to the
vendee and executed a bill of sale before a notary, both parties then,
after the sale, occupying the house and using the furniture exactly as
before, is void as against. the vendor's creditors.
2. An assignee in bankruptcy may pursue the property thus attempted to be
transferred, and, as auxiliary to its recovery, ask that the sale by the
bankrupt be annulled.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Missouri; the case being thus:
The fourteenth section of the Bankrupt Act of March 2d,
1867,* enacts that the judge of the District Court or the
register in bankruptcy shall assign all the estate, real and
personal, of a bankrupt to his assignee in bankruptcy, and
that such assignment shall vest in the assignee all the said
estate, and all the property conveyed by the bankrupt in
fraud of his creditors, and that the assignee may sue for the
same.
And the statute of frauds of Missouri enactst that 4every
sale by a vendor of goods and chattels in his possession, or
Under his control, unless accompanied by delivery within a
reasonable time (regard being had to the situation of the
property), and be followed by an actual and continued change
of possession, shall be held to be fraudulent and void as
against the creditors of the vendor or subsequent purchasers
in good faith."
These enactments, State and Federal, being in force, one
Downing, being indebted to a certain Mrs. Massey, wife of
John Massey, conveyed to her a quantity of fuiniture under
the following circumstances: Downing and4 .his family, with
John Massey and his family, had been living together in
the same house for eighteen years. About five years next
previous to the sale now spoken of, they a11 moved to the
house in which they were living at the time of this sale.
When they moved into this house Downing furnished apart
of it,'and Massey a part; Downing furnishing the articles
which were thie subject of this sale, and which were princi* 14 Stat. at Large, 522.

t Revised Statutes of 1865, page 440, chapter 107.

Dec. 1872.]

ALLEN V. MASSEY.
Opinion of the court.

pally furniture for the parlor, library, dining-room, balls, and
stairways. Both families used and occupied the parlor,
library, and dining-room alike, and made equal use of the
furniture of these rooms. Massey did the marketing and
paid the bills foir household expenses, and attended to matters about the house; he and Downing making settlements
from time to time and dividing the household expenses between them.
At the time of the sale Downing and Mrs. Massey went
around and looked at the different articles of furniture, took
an inventory of it, agreed upon the price; and completed
the transaction by Downing turning over to her the furniture, and executing and delivering to her a bill of sale duly
acknowledged before a notary public. After the sale both
families continued to occupy-the house and use the furniture
as before; the furniture, however, being subject to the absolute and sole control of Mrs. Massey.
Subsequently to this sale Downing was decreed a bankrupt, one Allen being appointed his assignee.
Hereupon Allen filed a bill in the court below against
Massey, his wife, and Downing, to have the sale annulled,
and the property given up to him the assignee. The District Court rendered a decree to that effect. This decree
being affirmed by the Circuit Court' the defendants brought
the case here.
31r. I AH. Krum, for the appellants; Messrs. I
G. W. Lubke, and P. Playler, contra.

Hitcheock,

Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The sale was, within the terms of the statute, fraudulent
and void as against Downing's creditors. It was not accompaiied by any delivery of the property, and was not followed
by any change of possession. The property consisted of
furniture used in a house occupied jointly by Downing and
his vendee and her husband and it remained in the same
condition, and was used by all three precisely in the same
manner after the sale as previously. There was no outward
VOL. XVIL

23

[Sup. OL

IRODD V. HEARTT.
Syllabus.

sign manifested, nor indiciaexhibited, nor notice given, which
could apprise the community of any change of ownership.
The object of the statute is to prevent parties from being
misled by apparent ownership of property where real ownership does not exist, but where a secret transfer has been
made to another. This object would be defeated if a sale
like the present one could be upheld. In the case of Olaflin
v. Rosenberg,* where the vendor had become the clerk of the
purchaser, the Supreme Court of Missouri held that the possession vyhich the purchaser , was required to take of the
property sold, in order to render the sale valid under the
statute, must be open, notorious, and unequivocal, such as
would inform the public, or those who were accustomed to
deal with the party, that the property had changed hands,
and that the title had passed from the vendor to the purchaser; observing at the same time thaf possession of this
kind excluded the idea of a joint or concurrent possession
with the vendor. The statute being a local one, applying
only to sales in Missouri, this court will follow the construe-

tion given to it by the highest court of the State.
, The assignee of Downing's estate was authorized, by the
express terms of the fourteenth section of the Bankrupt Act,
to pursue the property thus attempted to be transferred, and,
as auxiliary to its recovery, to ask that the sale of the bankrupt be annulled.

DECREE

AFFIRMED.

RODD v. HEARTT.
1. A district judge, sitting as the Circuit Court, may allow an appeal from
his own decree.
2. Where the claim on a fund in the Registry of the Admiralty of several
mortgages secured in a body by one mortgage, exceeds $2000, an appeal
to this court will lie by the"mortgagees in a body, though the claim
of no one of them exceed the said sum.
8. Where the Circuit Court "decrees" that a fund in court belongs to cer* 42 Missouri, 489.

