Oct. 1873.]

MILLER v. JOSEPH.
Statement of the case.

others, due care and its 'opposite' negligence, are relative
terms, having respect to the nature of the duty to be performed, the knowledge communicated to the party to be
charged, and -the prevailing usages of the business. In view
of the Atlmost invariable practice as to the stowage of nuts
on this voyage, of the well-known fact that if stowed in the
hold they are extremely liable to be injured by sweat, and
of the marks and directions on the packages in question in
this case, it was culpable negligence in the master of the
vessel to stow them in the hold. If he could not stow them
as directed, he should, at least, have given notice to the
shippers.
This view of the case is sufficient to dispose of it without
deciding whether the evidence in reference to the stowage
of nuts established a custom of the trade ii the proper
sense of that term, or whether the shipping receipts were-a
part of the contract of affreightment.
DECREE AFFIRMED WITH INTEREST AND COSTS.

MILLER V. JOSEPH ET AL.
A writ of error from the Supreme Court of the United States to review the
judgment of a'State court must be issued to the highest court of the
State in which a decision of the case could be had, even if that court be
an inferior court-of the State. Accordingly, ivhere a Circuit Court of
Virginia had jurisdiction to-decide a case finally, the Court of Appeals
of that State not having jurisdiction to review the decision, by reason
of the amount in controversy being under $500, a writ of error from
this court issued to the Court of Appeals was dismissed. If allowable at
all, the writ should have been issued to the Circuit Court.

EAROR to the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia; the
case beii-g thus:
In 1868 one Joseph recovered a judgment in the Circuit
Court of Rockingham County, Virginia, against a certain.
Miller for a sum less than $500-costs and interest included
-and issued execution thereon. In 1869 Miller filed a bill

[Sup. Or.

MILLER V. JOSEPH.[

Opinion of the court.

in, chancery in the same Circuit Court to restrain the collection of the judgment and for a:new trial, making Joseph
and the sheriff of thatcounty parties. -They. appeared and
answered.. The Circuit Qourt,, at the hearing, which was
had on the pleadings, dismissed the bill.,
The plaintiff then applied, to'the Supreme Court of Appeals of the State.to allow an appeal, from the decree of the
Circuit Court, but ,that court refused, to allow -it., Miller
then sued out of this court a writ: of error to review this
action of the Supreme, Court of Appeals. With certain exceptions, notoembracing the present case, the cbnstitattion. of
Virginia of 1870 does not allow an appeal in civil cases where
the amount in controversy is under $500.
Mr. David Fultz,for the plaintiff in error;.ikessrs. Woodson
and Complon, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the cou'rt.
,The writ of error in this case must be dismissed. The
Court of Appeals of Virginia had no jurisdiction to review
the decree of the Circuit Court of Rockingham County, and
therefore rightfully refused to allow an appeal therefrom.
The aniount in confr6versy was less than five hundred dollars, and the constitution of Virginia, of 1870, withholds
jurisdiction from the Court of Appeals in civil cases where
the, matter -in controyersy is under that sum' with certain
exceptions within which the present case does not fall. The
Circuit Court of Rockingham County is the highest tribunal
of the State in which a decision of the case could be -had,
and if a writ of err-or to review its.judgment was allowable
at all fi'om this court, it should -have been issued to that
court, and not to the Court"of Appeals.*
WRIT DISMISSED.

4 donstitution of Virginia of 1870, Art. VI, -sec. 2.
.

