Dec. 1872.]

SWEENi V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

fraud. This is not disputed. Large preparation at great
expense was made by the claimant for the fulfilment of it
on his part. It was violated by the United States without
reasonable cause, as I think, as expressly found by the Court
of Claims, without the consent, and against the rernonstrances of the claimant. A modified contract, -so called,
but really a sec6nd contract, was then made between the
parties, which was fulfilled on both sides; but there is niothing to show that this contract was freely made, or made at
all by the claimant in place of the first, oi that payment'of
the sums.due under it from the United States was accepted
by him in satisfaction of damages for the breach of the first.
I think that the United States are not absolved in their dealings with citizens from the obligations of honesty by which
individuals are usually controlled, and that the claimant is
entitled to damages.
[See the case next following.]

SWEENY V. UNITED STATES.
The doctrine of United States v. Clyde (13 Wallace, 35), of Mason v. United

States (supra,p. 67), and of other cases, affirmed, and the doctrine redeclared and applied, that where a claim is disputed by. the government, and the claimant accepts a certain sum in settlement thereof and
gives a receipt in full therefor, it is a bar to a subsequent action in the
Court of Claims for any residue asserted to be due.

APPEAL.from the Court of Claims; the case being thus:

One Sweeny, owner of a steamer, chartered her. at Louisville, March 3d, 1863, to the United States (the assistant
quartermaster of the military department where she was,
signing the charter-party in behalf. of the government), at

175 per day; no term of service being specified. On the
10th the per diem was increased, in writing, to $200, and was

SWEENY V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. (3t.

Statement of the case.

so paid till the 20th March. In that month she was ordered
and went into another military department; and came under
the control of an assistant quartermaster at St. Louis, Captain Parsons, underwhose control she remained till the 17th
of September, when she was discharged.
It was not conceded by Captain Parsons that the steamer
was retained in the service under the charter-party' On the
contrary, her account was stated by him on the 15th of September, 1863 (running from the 21st of March to the 31st of
July, 1863), at $140 a day. This account was paid by him,
and receipted for by the owner of the boat on the 22d of
October following. Subsequent accounts for subsequent
services were also stated and paid by Captain Parsons, and
receipted fol by the owners of the boat, none of which accounts or receipts referred in terms to any charter-party.
The owner remonstrated at the rate allowed, and, on the
19th of December, 1863, a settlement was made with him by
Captain Parsons, by allowing to him, from the 21st of March
to the 31st of August, $5 per day, which amount was received and receipted for by the claimant, "as in full of the
above account," being the account for the steamer's services.
But no release under seal was executed by the claimant,
nor was any other consideration given by the government
than that expressed of $5 per day for the term named.
Sweeny now filed a petition in the Court of Claims, asking for compensation at the charter rate of $200 per day for
the one hundred and eighty-one days, between the 20th of
March and the 17th of September.
The Court of Claims dismissed the petition on the ground
that the demand of the claimant was a doubtful and disputed claim, which might be the subject of a valid parol
compromise, and that the payment of the $5 a day for the
term named, constituted a valid and binding compromise,
which barred the claimant's action. From this action of the
Court of Claims the owner of the vessel appealed.
Mr. James Hughes, for the appellant; Mr. C.H. Hill, Assistant Attorney-General, contra.

Dec. 1872.]

SWEENY V.

UNITED STATES.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Claims against the United States which are disputed by
the officers authorized to adjust such accounts may be compromised, and if the claimant voluntarily enters into such a
compromise and accepts a smaller sum than the claim and
executes a discharge in full for the whole claim he is bound
by the adjustment and cannot sue for what he voluntarily
relinquished.
Sweeny was the owner of the steamer Ben. Franklin, and
on the 3d of March, 1863, he chartered the steamer to the
United States for $170 per day, the charter-party being
signed by the owner of the steamer and an assistant quartermaster, without any stipulation as to the term of service.
He complained of the rate allowed and subsequently applied for an increase, and the quartermaster at St. Louis
directed that the steamer should be allowed $200 per day,
by an indorsement on the application. She continued under
the first contract and was borne upon the returns of the
assistant quartermaster for the months of March and April
following, but the claimant was only paid at that rate up to
the 20th of March, and the steamer was not borne upon the
returns of the assistant quartermaster after April of that
year. He ordered her to proceed to Milliken's Bend, in the
Mississippi River, arid in so doing -she passed, within the
limits of another military department, and came under the
control of another assistant quartermaster, where she remained until the 17th of September following, when she
was discharged.
It was denied by the assistant quartermaster that the
steamer was retained in service under the original charterparty, and he stated the account for her services from the
21st of March to the 31st of July, at $140 per day, which
was regularly paid by the assistant quartermaster, and was
duly receipted for by the claimant, and it appears that none
of those accounts or receipts make any reference to the
charter-party.
Complaint was made by the owner of the steamer that

78

HlARWOOD V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

the compensation allowed was insufficient, and the assistant
quartermaster, on the 19th of December of that year, made
a settlement with the clairant and increased the allowance

'to $145 'per day, and the finding of the Court of Claims
shows that the account made out in that way was received
and receipted by the claimant "as in full of the above account," being the account made .out in that way for the ser-

vices of the steamer.
Enough appears to satisfy the court that the charter-pary
was superseded, and that the claim was in fact for a quantum
meruit, and as such that it was the proper subject of compromise within the principle adopted and applied in the case of
.Masonv. United States, decided at the present term.* Prior
to the adjustment the sum" allowed was $140 per day, but
that allowance was not satisfactory to the claimant, and the
assistant quartermaster, as matter of compromise, agreed to
add $5 per day in addition to that allowance, and the claimant having accepted the offer, received the money, and executed a discharge in full of the claim, cannot prosecute a
suit in the Court of Claims for what he voluntarily relinquished in the compromise.
Parties may adjust their own disputes, and when they do
so voluntarily and understandingly, no appeal lies to the
courts to review their mutual decision.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

HARWOOD V. RAILROAD COMPANY.
1. Where a bill is filed by a third party to set aside as fraudulent completed
judicial proceedings, regular on their face, the plaintiff in those proceedings should be brought in as a party.
2. Where such a bill is filed five years after the judicial proceedings which
it is sought to set aside have been completed, the cause of so con* See supra, the preceding case.

