.672

LIFE LiSURANOE. OOMPANY V. FRANCISCO.

[Sup. Ct.

&ylab~s.

.stances.under which the advances were'rade, it, is, entitled,
as against their direct and positive dbclarhti6ns, td little
weight. -Perhaps, as suggested by the Giretfit'Oourt in its
opinion, the inferences 6f the captdin we'e ilot theresult Of
any intended untrhth on his part, butwere drawn from the
fact ,that nothing' was said- during the negotiation fur advances in'timatiug i4 terms that the libellafitg wdr to have
a,lien upor the Vessel.
The fact that the vessol was; at the time the advalces
were-made- under, mortgage to thdclaitant , does not stibordiiiate'the Aiwnof th-e libellnts to the claiiii of the mortgagees,' Fundgfurni~hed in a foreign'pbi't, under the circurnstances aid for the purposes mentioned in this -case,
have priority"'as, lien upon th vessel over: existing mortgages. Advanced for the security 6id-protection of the
vessel, they were for t]e benefit of the mortgagees as vell
as of the-owbers. If lien's created by the necessities of vessels ih a'foreigh port could be subordinated to or displaced
by mortgages to prior creditors at home, such liens would
sooi cease to he r~garded as having any certain value, or as
affodiking any reliable scchrity.
As the advances were in gold; and the drafts onr the ownSe's in New rYork show that the payment to tle' libellints
vas'to be made also in gold, the -court below riled rightly
in directin~g its decrees to be entered for the amount due
themn in' like currency.*
DECOR9 AFFIRMBD in both cdses, with interest and costs.

LIFE INSU6RANCE COMPANY V. FRANCISCO.
1. 'When, under the terms of a policy of life insurance, the representatives
of the party assured are to furnish, within a certain time after the death
of the assured, 11due proof of the just claim, of the assured,'-if the
party claiming the insurance-money have within the time furnished
answers written out in the presence of the insurers' agent, to certain
'.

Bi6fison'x'. :flode ':7AVallaee, 229' Trebilcoik,;v; Wil;s n,42 Id. 687.

Oct. 1873.]

LIrFE INSURANCE COMPANY V. FRANCISCO.

673

Statement/of the case.
printed questions usually furnished by the insurer, for the purpose of
seeing whether the claim is just or not, and the insurer receiveand keep
the questions and answers without any suggestion that' such preliminary
proofs are insufficient, either in form or substance,-the court, on a'uit
for the insurance-money, has no right to determine as matter of law,
that the questions and answers do not establish'the justice of the plaintiff's claim, and that the plaintiff is not entitled to a verdict. Questions
and answers so given furnish some evidence that the claim is just; and
the matter is proper for the jury even though the contents of the papei
do not as yet appear.
2. A rule of court that "in causes tried by a jury, any special charge or instruction asked for by either party, must be presented to the court in writing, di.
reetly after the close of the evidence, and before any argument is made t; the
jury, or it will not be considered," is a reasonable rule; and the enforce.
meat or disregard of it is matter of discretion with the court making it,
and, therefore, not the subject of a writ of error.
3. Where a medical man testifies that the "1disease" of a person who had
died, and on whose death a claim for insurance was made, "1had been
indigestion, torpid liver and colic, and that he died of acute hepatitis,"
and several other persons, the acquaintances of the deceased, testify that
they had never known him to be unwell, or if so more than very slightly,
and that they considered-him to be a healthy man, an instruction to the
jury that the evidence was not sufficient to enable the plaintiff (who was
suing ?or the insurance-money on a policy of life insurane, previous to
the grant of which the decedent had answered in reply to the usual
questions that he had '1no sickness or disease,") to recover, was held to
have been rightly refused; and that the jury were rightly instructed
that it was for them to determine whether the deceased had been afflicted
with any sickness or disease, within the meaning of the terms as used
in his answers to questions put to him prior to the issue of the policy.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of California;

the case being thus:
Dolores Francisco sued the-Afanbattan Life Insurance
Company upon a contract of insurance, made February 5th,
1867, upon the life of her husband. The husband died
twenty-four days afterwards; that is to say on the' 1st of
March, 1867, and before the policy actually issued. There
were two conditions in the policy, which would have been
issued had Francisco live'd
1st. That if any representation made by the assured ia
the application for the policy should prove to have been,
untrue, the policy should be void.
2d. That payment of the loss would be made within
VOL. XVII.

43

674 ' LIFE INSURANCE ComPANY v. FRAcIsco.

[Sup. CL.

Statement of the case.

ninety days after notice of the death, and due proof of the
just claim of the assured.

Upon the trial of the cause the plaintiff offered: evidence
to 'prove the contract, and the death of-her husband, and
also that she had filled up in the presence of the agent of.
the company and handed to him, who received them with-*
out any objection, blank forms which had been furnished
by the company, and which were those always used in making proof of death, but offered no evidence as to the contents of those papers. The plaintiff rested, and the defendant moved the court to instruct the jury that on the evidence
given the plaintiff could not recover; which instruction the
court refused to give, and the defendant excepted. This was
the first exception.

The company then gave in evidence this and other papers
which the wife had handed to the agent as proof of her
right to demand the insurance-money. They contained answers by the wife herself in reference to the questions on
the blank.form, thus:
"QuEsTIoN. State "allthe facts regardingcause of death.
"ANSWER. About the 14th of February, 1867, was taken sick
with a.severe colic fever; was confined to his bouse'for two dbys;
finally was well enough to attend to business five days succeeding; was again taken sick on the 22d of February, 1867, and
from which sickness he died on the 1st of March, 1867.
"QuESTION. Row long has he been sick P
"ANS

ER. In both attacks about ten days.

"QUESTION. Did he die suddenlu, or whas his disease afte an
illness of how many monthsi and weeks, and days' duration?
"ANswER. He died from an acute attack of the congestion of
the liver, which produced fever, and-from the effects of -which
he died, to the best of my knowledge and belief."
Besides the statement of the 'wife, there Were the statements by the physician, Dr. Franklin, who had attended
Francisco in his last illness; and also of an acquaintance,
one Mardis. " The physician stated that le had prescribed
for the deceased occasionally since 1856, and had "been his
physician principally for the last three or four years; his

Oct. 1873.]

LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY V. FRANCISCO.

675

Statement of the case.

disease hd been indigestion, torpid liver, and colic," and
that he died of "acute hepatitis." The acquaintance, Mardis, knew "of his being sick for short periods of a day or
two, for about eighteen months previous to his death,* of
cramps in the stomach."
The company also gave in evidence the application for the
policy and the representations therein made, referred to.
The answers-to the usual questions were given by Mr. Francisco, as agent for his wife. He was asked whether he had
ever had liver complaint, whether any disease was suspected,
whether he had had at any time disease of the stomach or
bowels, whether, during the last seven years, he had any
sickness or disease, and if so what were the particulars and
what physician had attended him; to all which he answered
in the negative.
The defendant then rested. The plaintiff then produced'
nine witnesses, every one of whom testified that they had
known Francisco for longer or shorter terms of time, and
that they had never known him to be at all unwell, or more
than very slightly so; and that they considered him a healthy
man. Four of these were asked whether they could say
that the physician, Dr. Franklin's, statements were not correct, and answered that they could not say so; the other
five were not questioned on the point.
The plaintiff rested and the evidence was closed. The
defendant then prayed the court to instruct the jury that the
evidence was not sufficient to entitle the plaintiff to a verdict. The court refused to grant the instruction, and the
defendant excepted. This was the secondd'exception.
The evidence having been summed up by counsel, -the
counsel for the defendant offered to the court certain instructions which he desired the court to give to the jury,
but the judge refused, saying it was too late to ask instructions, after argument to the jury, to which defendant excepted. This was the third exception.
There was a general rule of the court"In causes, civil or criminal, tried by a jury, any special
charge or instruction asked for by either party must be pre-

676

LiFE

INSURANCE COMPANY V. FRANCISCO. [Sup. Ct.
Argument for the insurance qompiny.

sented to the court, inwriting, directly after the close of the
evidence, and before any argument is made to the jury, or they
will not be considered."
The 'court instructed the jury that it was for theni to determine whether the deceased had bad any disease or sickness within the meaning of the term as used in the question
answered by him; that he might have had a cold or headache so slight as not to constitute sickness or disease within
the meaning of the question, to which 'part of the charge
the defendant excepted. This was the fourth exception.
The court proceeded to say that the ailment might be so
serious as to constitute disease.
The court instructed the jury that it was f6r them to determine whether the party had been afflicted with any sickness or disease within the proper meaning of those terms, as
used in the application; to which 'part of the charge the
defendant excepted. This was the fifth exception.
.Verdict and judgment having gone for the plaintiff, the
case was brought here on the following assignments of
1
error
I. The court erred in refusing the instructions asked as
stated in the first and second exceptions.
H. The court erred in refusing to consider the request for
instructions after the close of the argument to the jury, as
stated in the third exception.
III. The court erred in charging the jury as stated in the
fourth and fifth exceptions.
Messrs. J. M. Carlisle and T D. MePherson,for the plaintiff
in .error; ,a brief of Messrs. Doyle and Barber being fited'on
the same side:
As to the first exceptioii. The court.allowed the plaintiff to
recover on evidence that the defendant had-made the agreement declared on, and that the person whose life was assured7
had died, with further proof that papersi in the form of those
used by the company in "proof of the just claim of the assured," had been prepared and handed to the agent of the
defendant.

Oct. 1873.]

LIFE INSURANCE C

,rgument

mPANY

V.

FRANCISCO.

677

for the insurance company.

Now, the plaintiF, by the terms of the policy, was bound
to furnish, first, "satisfactory evidence of the death of the
insured," and second, "proof of the just claim of the assured
under this policy." The defendant had offered no proof on
the latter point when the instruction was asked and refused.
The proofs were correct in form but bad in substance. The
company was not bound to return them, or ask an explanation, or suggest a mode of explaining away fatal admissions.*
The instruction was asked after the plaintiff had rested,
and it was in the nature of a demurrer to the evidence.
As to the second exception. The preliminary proofs offered by
the plaintiff are admissions by her, and they show that the
deceased, her agent, had given false answers to the questions
contained in the application for the policy. If this was so,
then, by the very terms of the policy, there could be no recovery. The questions were in writing, the answers in writing, and the plaintiff's admisgions in writing; these writings
it was the province of the iourt to construe to the jLry.
As to the thirdexception. The refusal of thejudge to consider
any instructions asked after argument to the jury was in accordance with a rule of the court,'but the right of counsel
to submit instructions at any time before the jury leave the
box is part of the common law of the land and cannot be
taken away by such rule. This is decided by the Supreme
-Court of California in People v. Williams.t
As to the fourth andfifth exceptions. The charge of the court
was erroneous in the particulars excepted to. There was
no evidence before the jury tending to show that the disease
specified by Dr. Franklin, or the sickness testified to by
Mardis, was not in fact sickness or disease. Certain ordinary
acquaintances of Francisco's, not one of whom is shown ever
to have crossed his threshold, did not witness the ,specific
attacks of sickness and disease spoken of by Franklin and
Mardis, and of course knew nothing of them. They did not
" Campbell v. Charter Oak, 10 Allen, 213; Irving v. Excelsior Ins. Co.,
1 Bosworth, 514; Kimball v. Hamilton Ins.. Co., 8 Id. 495; 'Washington
Marine Ins. Co. v. Herckenrath, 3 Robinson (N. Y.), 325.
t 32 California, 286.

678

LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY V. FRANCISCO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

pretendto deny their occurrence. Their testimony proved
nothing more than that'Francisco's general health, so far as
they knew, was good. When a medical witness says that he
has attended a patient for years for a disease which he characterizes as indigestion, torpid liver, and colic, and another
witness speaks of the patient as having been subject, for
eighteen months or two years prior to his decease, to attacks,
lasting a day or two, of cramps in the stomach, and these
witnesses are uncontr adicted, it is error to intimate to the
jury that they are at liberty to find, from the evidence, that
there was no disease in the case. Parks v. Ross* rules this.
The evidence on the point was all in one direction, but under
the intimation of the court the jury disregarded it, and
assumed that certain specific attacks of indigestion, -colic,
torpid liver, and cramps of the stomach, running through
a series of years, were of so trivial a character as not 'to
amount to sickness or disease.
Mr. C. W. Kendall, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The evidence that preliminary proof of the death of Francisco and of the justice of the claim of the assured were
given to the defendants ninety days before the' suit was
brought was quite sufficient to go to the jury. The proofs
were in forms, blanks for which had been furnished by the
insurers, and the forms were filled up in the presence of
theiiZ agent. He received them without objection, and it
does not appear that at any time before the trial of the case
it was ever suggested to the assured that the proofs were
insufficient, either in form or in substance. Clearly, therefore, it was not for the court to instruct the jury thiat the
plaintiffwas not entitled to a verdict. It seems to have been
the idea of the defendants that the statements of the witnesses by Whom .the preliminary proofs were made did not
establish the justice of the plaintiff's claim. But whether
they did 6r not was a question which the court had no right
to determine as a conclusion of law. They furnished, at
* 11 Howard, 873.

Oct. 1873.] LI

E, INSURANCE COMPANrY

v.

FRANCISCO.

679

Opinion of the court.

least, some evidence that the claim was just, and. this they
would have furnished had'they contained nothing more than
averments that:the defendants had agreed to insure, and
that'the person whose life was insured had died. The first
assignment of error is, therefore, not sustained.
The second is equally without merit. After the case had
been summed up, and when the court was about to charge
the jury, the defendants offered to submit prayers for instructions, but the court refused to receive them, assigning
as a reason that the offer was too late. This is alleged to
have been an error. What the prayers were, whetber'the
instructions asked were pertinent to the case or not, or
whether they could rightfully have been given had they
been received, we are not informed. They were not incorporated in the bill of exceptions, and they do not appear in
the record. But, assuming that they were such as the court
ought to have given had they been presented in time, there
was no error, in refusing to receive them after the case had

been argued to the jury. The rule of the court then existing was as follows: "In causes, civil or criminal, tried by a
jury, any special charge or instruction asked for by either
party must be presented to the court, in writing, directly
after the close of the evidence -and before' any argument is
made to the jury, or they will not be considered." This is
a reasonable rule, intended to guard as well the court as the
opposite party against sudden surprise. It does not deprive
either party of a right to the opinion of the court upon any
material propositions which he may desire to have presented
to the jury. It merely regulates the exercise of that right.
The rule exists in very many courts, and it has been found
necessary in the admiiistration of justice. No doubt a court
may, notwithstanding, the rule, in its discretion,' receive
pra-ers for instructions even after the general charge has
been given to the jury, but neither party can claim as a
right a disregard of the ordinary rules of practice in the
court. There is nothing inconsistent with this to be found
in the case cited.* On the contrary, whether a court shall
* People v. Williams, 32 California, 286

680

LIFE INSURANCE

COMPANY

v.

FRANCISCO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

enforce such a rule; or depart from it, is treated i-1that case
as a matter resting in the discretion of the court. That it is
competent for courts to adopt such a rule has often been
decided, and once, at least, if not oftenler, in California.* The remaining errors have been assigned to the charge
of the court. The principal defence set up at the trial was
that in the. application for insurance false answers had been
given to thd questions propounded by the defendants. Thos6
questi6iis were, in substance, whether the person whose life
was proposed for insurance had had certain diseases, or,
during the next preceding seven years, any disease, and the
answers given were that he had not. It was in reference to
this that the court instructed the jury it was for them to determine from the evidence whether the person whose life
was insured had, during the time mentioned in the questions
propounded on making the application, any affliction that
could* properly be called a sickness or disease, within the
meaning of the term as used, and said, "for example, a man
might have a slight cold in the head, or a, slight headache,
that in no way seriously affected -his health or interfered
with his usual avocations, and might be forgotten in a week
or a month, which might be of so trifling a character as not
to constitute a sickness or a disease within the meaning of
the term as used, and which the party would not be required
to mentiou in answering the questions. But again, he might
have a cold or a headache of so serious a character as to be
a sickness or disease within the meaning of those terms as
used which it would be his duty to mention, and a failure to
mention which would make his answer false."
There is no just ground of complaint in this instruction,
either considered abstractly or in its application to the evidence in the case. It was, in effect, saying that substantial
truth in the answer was what was required. If, therefore,
the -defendants have been injured it was by the verdict of
the jury rather than by any error of the court.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.
* People v. Sears, 18 California, 685.

