Dec. 1872.]

UNITED STATES V.

HICKEY.

Syllabus.

to the land sold. It must be admitted that such. is the doctrine of vei'y many cases, perhaps of those which have been
best considered, though there are many well-reasoned judgments to the contrary. But we think, for the purposes of
the present case, the law, as held by the Supreme Court of
Texas, must furnish the rule of decision. And the decisions
of that court appear to be that an assignment of the notes
given for purchase-money carries with it the lien to th'e
assignee.*
It has been held that in order to enforce a vendor's lien,
the bill must show that the complainant has exhausted his
remedy at law against the personal estate of the vendee, or
must show that he cannot have an adequate'remedy at law.
And this bill makes no such showing. But in Texas, as in
some other States, the creditor may proceed in the first instance to enforce the lien in equity.t
Upon, the whole, then, we think the Circuit Court erred
in 'dismissing the complainant's bill. He was entitled to a
decree.
DECREE REVERSED,and

the case remitted with, instructidns

to enter a decree for the complainant against Scroggin and
Hanna, the appellees and defendants below.

UNITED STATES V.

tICKEY.

1. When the Court of Claims, on a claim embracing several items, rejects'
some but allows others, against which allowance the United States alone
appeals, this court will not give consideration to the items rejected and
against whose rejection the claimant has not appealed, except so far as
may be necessary for a proper understanding of the item allowed. '
2. Where a lessee, after letting to another, reserving a rent, has assigned
all his "right, title, and interest" in the lease, and "authorized the
assignee to sue for, collect, and recover the lease, and the'rights to the
rent reserved under the same," declaring "it to be distinctly under]oore v. Raymond, 15 Texas, 554; Watt v. White, 33 Id. 425.
M
t'fXcAlpino v. Burnett, 19 Texas, 497.

UITTED STATES V.

HICKEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
stood" that it is the object and purpose to put the assignee in his "place
and stead, so far as concerns his rights under the lease"-the lessee,
on a claim against him by the sub-tenant, cannot set up a claim for
arrears of rent due to him at the time when he assigned the lease. The
transfer has carried them to the assignee.

from the Court of Claims; the case being thus:
In July, :1851, the Secretary of the Treasury, on behalf
of the United States, agreed with one Eldredge, to lease
from him certain warehouses in the city of San Francisco
for the teim of ten years. The rent for the first two years
was fixed at $6000 per month, and it was agreed that at the
expiration of every two years thereafter the secretary should
have the privilege of having the rent fixed for the ensuing
two years by a commission, of which the secretary shofild
appoint one member, Eldredge another, and that the two
thus sel1cted should choose a third.
In February, 1856, the United States dsiring to "gt
clear Df this lease," the collector of the port of San Frdncisco, by authority of the Secretary of the Treasury, entered
into an agreement with one Hickey, by which the United
States leased to him the warehouses mentioned, duriig the
term of the lease first mentioned. Hickey agreed to pay
,$500 per month until the 1st of May following (that is to
say, till the 1st of May, 1856, at which time an appraisement was to be made as by the terms of the original lease),
and to pay thei'eafter to the United States the sum which
should be awarded to Eldredge for the two years ensuing,
and after that time to pay such sum as should be awarded
from time to time for the terms of two years thereafter ensuing:
APPEAL

"Provided; nevertheless, that the sum of $250 per calendar
month is hereby saved and reserved to the said Hickey during
the term of the aforesaid lease, as a bonus to him, . . . to be
paid at the expiration of each month, . . monthly until the
completion of the same."
Under this agreement Hickey paid rent as agreed until
May. 1856. He then appointed one person to appraise the

Dec. 1872.]

UNITED STATES V. HICKEY.

11

Statement of the case.

future rent. The secretary appointed another. They failed
to aglree, and failed to appoint an umpire; and the Secretary
of the Treasury, although receiving notice of such failure,
took no further steps in the matter.
On the 13th of April, 1857, difficulties and disputes having
arisen between the government and Eldredge concerning
the amount of rents lawfully demandable by Eidredge from
the government, the secretary, without the knowledge of
Hickey, entered into an agreement with Eldredge by which
the United States transferred and assigned to him "all their
right and title and interest in and'to the said lease, and authorized him to sue or, collect, and recover the Hickey
lease, and the rights to the rent reserved under the same,"
and agreed to pay him $110,000 in satisfaction of all'future
claims for rent under the original lease; this conveyance
adding to it§ terms of assignment and transfer these words:
. "It being distinctly understood that it is the object and
pur-

pose of this agreement to put the said Eldredge in the place
and stead of the United States, so far as concerns the rights of
the United States under the lease aforesaid."
In August of the same year Eldredge took proceedings
in the courts of California against Hickey for non-payment
of rent on the lease, and in :November dispossessed him of
the premises.
In this state of things Hlickey filed a petition in the Court
of Claims, in which he alleged that the United States were
indebted to him upon three items:
1. His bonus of $250 per calendar month, reserved, and
extending, as he alleged, through a term of six years,
$18,000. ,
2. For damages in the breaking up of his business by the
eviction, against which he asserted his right to be indemnified by the United States, %528,000.
3. For storage of goods belonging to the United States
during the years 1856 and 1857, the sum of $1370. The
claim was for storage while Hickey was in possession of the
warehouses as above mentioned.

UNITED STATES V.

IICKEY.

[Sap. Ot.

Argument for the government.

Against this last claim (which was not denied) the United
States set up a counter-claim of $9000 for rent alleged to be
due by Hickey, from May, 1856, to November, 1857 (when
Hickey was evicted), on the lease made by them to him.
No evidence was given of the monthly value of the premises.
The Court of Claims rejected Hickey's first and second
claims; that is to say, his claims of bonus, and for damages,
but allowed his claim for storage; disallowing the counterclaim or set-off presented by the Ufiited States.
The United States alone appealed.
J.

ir. S. -. Phillips, Solicitor-General,for the appellants; Mr.
. lMoore, contra.

Much of the argument was directed to the matter of the
two -items which were rejected by the Court of Claims;
items not passed on by this court. On the remaining
point, the refusal of the court below to allow the counterclaim of the United States, the Solicitor-General .argued
that the lease to Hlickey was not a sub-lease, but a lease of
the term (i. e., of the entire term), from February 1st, 1856,
to the end of the lease. This was a transfer of the whole
interest of the United States in the lease, and of necessity
therefore an assignment of the lease.
As a consequence of this, Hickey becamhe bound to Eldredge for all rent that the.United States, the lessee and
assignor, had agreed to pay. Now the United States had
agreed to pay $6000 a month, unless arbitrators appointed
from time to time should say otherwise. And upon a consideration of the whole transaction, including the relations
of Hickey as assignee to iEldredge, and thereupon indirectly
to the United States, it seemed clear that Hickey's obligation
by his contract with the United States was, that if there was
no assessment upon the 1st of May, 1856, he would in effect
take the place of the United States in their contract with
Eldredge as regards the payment of the rent, receiving the

bonus of $250 a month by way of diminution of his rent.
But IHickey paid rent to no one after the 1st of May, 186.
Upon the whole, the case was one in which the assignee of

Dec. 187:2.]

UNITED STATES V. HICKEY.
Opinion of the court.

a lessee, who is indebted to the original lessor for a large
amount which the lessee has -infact paid, demanded that the
lessee should pay him a debt much less than that already paid
for him to the original lessor, and one, at that, growing out
of the same transaction. The assignee of a lease in possession is to be regarded as the principal debtor for rent to the
lessor, and the lessee as only secondary.
Mr. Justice HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
By not appealing, the claimant has declared himself to be
content with the disposition of the case by the Court of
Claims. The appeal brings up only, the claim allowed. The
rejected items, therefore, will receive no consideration, except so far as may be necessary for a proper understanding
of the item allowed.
It is said that the translction with iHickey was an assignment to him by the United States, and not an underletting. It was not an assignment, as the terms between the
United States and Hickey were different from those between
Eldredge and the United States. The United States agreed
to pay $6000 per month, and had a privilege of an appraisement at their option. Hickey agreed to pay $500 per month
only for the first two months, was to have in substance a
deduction of $250 for every month thereafter by the United
States, and no rent after May 1st was fixed unless an appraisal should be made.* It is difficult, however, to see the
importance of the difference in this proceeding, whether it
was an assignment or subletting. The short answer to the
counter-claim is that the United States had assigned to Eldredge all their claim and -demand for the rent upon this
lease; and therefore could have no claim against iHickey by
virtue of it. The rent was paid by Hickey to May 1st, 1856.
After that time he refused to pay ifent, on the ground that
therd.-was no appraisal fixing the amount. No appraisal has
ever been made. No evidence was given before the Court
of Claims of the rental value of the premises, and I see not
. 2 Blackstone's Commentaries, 327, n.

MARIN V. LALLEY.

.[sup.

Ot.

Statement of the case.

how more than nominal value could'in any event be claimed.
But beyond this, the United States, on the 13th of April,
1857, transferred and assigned to Eldredge all their right,
title,-and interest in and to the lease, and autliorized him to
sue for and recover the rents reserved to the United States
as fully as they could do. It was added, "it being distinctly
understood that it is the object and purpose of this agreement to put the said Eldredge in the place and stead of the
United States, -so far as concerns the rights of the United
States under the lease aforesaid." It was by'virtue of the
ownership of the lease acquired under this assignment that
Eldredge took proceedings in the Qalifornia courts, which
resulted in the eviction and dispossession of Hickey from
the premises described" in. the lease. This assignment, in
the terms stated, carried all the interest in the rents already
accrued as well as rents thereafter to accrue. It was broad
and comprehensive, carrying every interest in or connected
with or arising out of the lease. There was no claim or deeuand against Hickey existing in the United States under
this lease, and consequently there was no counter-claim to
be interposed against his demand for storage allowed by the
judgment appealed from. The decision of the Court of
Claims was right and must be
AFFIRMED.

MARIN V. LALLEY.
1. The order of seizure and sale called "executory process," made in Louisiana-when the mortgage "imports a confession of judgment," is in substance a decree of foreclosure and sale, and therefore a "final decree;"
especidlly when made after objections have been made and heard.
2. When a proceeding below is in- its essential nature a foreclosure of a
mortgage in chancery, an appeal is the only proper mode of bringing it
here.

ON motion to dismiss an a peal from the Circuit Court
for the'District-of Louisiana; the case being thus:
In Louisiana a mortgage creditor may apply to a judge at

